THE PICKWICK PAPERS CHARLES DICKENS CONTENTS . 
The first Day's Journey , and the first Evening's Adventures with their Consequences . 
A new Acquaintance The Stroller's Tale A disagreeable Interruption , and an unpleasant Encounter . 
A Field Day and Bivouac More new Friends An Invitation to the Country . 
A short one Showing , among other Matters , how Mr. Pickwick undertook to drive , and Mr. Winkle to ride , and how they both did it . 
An old fashioned Card party The Clergyman's verses The Story of the Convict's Return . 
Strongly illustrative of the Position , that the Course of True Love is not a Railway . 
A Discovery and a Chase . 
of the Disinterestedness of Mr. A. Jingle's Character . 
Involving another Journey , and an Antiquarian Discovery Recording Mr. Pickwick's Determination to be present at an Election and containing a Manuscript of the old Clergyman's . 
Descriptive of a very important Proceeding on the Part of Mr. Pickwick no less an Epoch in his Life , than in this History . 
Some Account of Eatanswill of the State of Parties therein and of the Election of a Member to serve in Parliament for that ancient , loyal , and patriotic Borough . 
Comprising a brief Description of the Company at the Peacock assembled and a Tale told by a Bagman . 
Too full of Adventure to be briefly described . 
Showing that an Attack of Rheumatism , in some Cases , acts as a Quickener to inventive Genius . 
Briefly illustrative of two Points first , the Power of Hysterics , and , secondly , the Force of Circumstances . 
A pleasant Day with an unpleasant Termination . 
In which the old Man launches forth into his favourite Theme , and relates a Story about a queer Client . 
Mr. Pickwick journeys to Ipswich and meets with a romantic Adventure with a middle aged Lady in yellow Curl papers . 
In which Mr. Samuel Weller begins to devote his Energies to the Return Match between himself and Mr. Trotter . 
Wherein Mr. Peter Magnus grows jealous , and the middle aged Lady apprehensive , which brings the Pickwickians within the Grasp of the Law . 
Which contains a brief Account of the Progress of the Action of Bardell against Pickwick . 
Samuel Weller makes a Pilgrimage to Dorking , and beholds his Mother in law . 
The Story of the Goblins who stole a Sexton . 
Which is all about the Law , and sundry Great Authorities learned therein . 
Describes , far more fully than the Court Newsman ever did , a Bachelor's Party , given by Mr. Bob Sawyer at his Lodgings in the Borough . 
Is wholly devoted to a full and faithful Report of the memorable Trial of Bardell against Pickwick . 
In which Mr. Pickwick thinks he had better go to Bath and goes accordingly . 
The chief Features of which will be found to be an authentic Version of the Legend of Prince Bladud , and a most extraordinary Calamity that befell Mr. Winkle . 
How Mr. Winkle , when he stepped out of the Frying pan , walked gently and comfortably into the Fire . 
Mr. Samuel Weller , being intrusted with a Mission of Love , proceeds to execute it with what Success will hereinafter appear . 
Introduces Mr. Pickwick to a new and not uninteresting Scene in the great Drama of Life . 
Whatt befell Mr. Pickwick when he got into the Fleet what Prisoners he saw there and how he passed the Night . 
Illustrative , like the preceding one , of the old Proverb , that Adversity brings a Man acquainted with strange Bedfellows Likewise containing Mr. Pickwick's extraordinary and startling Announcement to Mr. Samuel Weller . 
Showing how Mr. Samuel Weller got into Difficulties . 
Treats of divers little Matters which occurred in the Fleet , and of Mr. Winkle's mysterious Behaviour and shows how the poor Chancery Prisoner obtained his Release at last . 
Descriptive of an affecting Interview between Mr. Samuel Weller and a Family Party . 
Mr. Pickwick makes a Tour of the diminutive World he inhabits , and resolves to mix with it , in Future , as little as possible . 
Records a touching Act of delicate Feeling not unmixed with Pleasantry , achieved and performed by Messrs . 
Is chiefly devoted to Matters of Business , and the temporal Advantage of Dodson and Fogg Mr. Winkle reappears under extraordinary Circumstances Mr. Pickwick's Benevolence proves stronger than his Obstinacy . 
Relates how Mr. Pickwick , with the Assistance of Samuel Weller , essayed to soften the Heart of Mr. Benjamin Allen , and to mollify the Wrath of Mr. Robert Sawyer . 
Containing the Story of the Bagman's Uncle . 
How Mr. Pickwick sped upon his Mission , and how he was reinforced in the Outset by a most unexpected Auxiliary . 
Involving a serious Change in the Weller Family , and the untimely Downfall of Mr. Stiggins . 
Comprising the final Exit of Mr. Jingle and Job Trotter , with a great Morning of business in Gray's Inn Square Concluding with a Double Knock at Mr. Perker's Door . 
Containing some Particulars relative to the Double Knock , and other Matters among which certain interesting Disclosures relative to Mr. Snodgrass and a Young Lady are by no Means irrelevant to this History . 
Mr. Solomon Pell , assisted by a Select Committee of Coachmen , arranges the affairs of the elder Mr. Weller . 
An important Conference takes place between Mr. Pickwick and Samuel Weller , at which his Parent assists An old Gentleman in a snuff coloured Suit arrives unexpectedly . 
, P. V. P. M. P. C. Perpetual Vice President Member Pickwick Club , presiding . 
The following resolutions unanimously agreed to 'That this Association has heard read , with feelings of unmingled satisfaction , and unqualified approval , the paper communicated by Samuel Pickwick , Esq . 
, G. C. M. P. C. , for the same . 
'That , with the view just mentioned , this Association has taken into its serious consideration a proposal , emanating from the aforesaid , Samuel Pickwick , Esq . 
'That the said proposal has received the sanction and approval of this Association . 
'That the Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Club is therefore hereby constituted and that Samuel Pickwick , Esq . 
, G. C. M. P. C. , Tracy Tupman , Esq . 
, M. P. C. , Augustus Snodgrass , Esq . 
, M. P. C. , and Nathaniel Winkle , Esq . 
Mr. Pickwick's oration upon this occasion , together with the debate thereon , is entered on the Transactions of the Club . 
that fame was dear to the heart of every man . 
but this he would say , that if ever the fire of self importance broke out in his bosom , the desire to benefit the human race in preference effectually quenched it . 
The praise of mankind was his swing philanthropy was his insurance office . 
He was a humble individual . 
Still he could not but feel that they had selected him for a service of great honour , and of some danger . 
Travelling was in a troubled state , and the minds of coachmen were unsettled . 
Let them look abroad and contemplate the scenes which were enacting around them . 
Stage coaches were upsetting in all directions , horses were bolting , boats were overturning , and boilers were bursting . 
Let that honourable Pickwickian who cried No so loudly come forward and deny it , if he could . 
researches , and smarting under the censure which had been heaped upon his own feeble attempts at rivalry , now took this vile and calumnious mode of 'Mr . 
PICKWICK would not put up to be put down by clamour . 
He had alluded to the honourable gentleman . 
BLOTTON would only say then , that he repelled the hon . 
's false and scurrilous accusation , with profound contempt . 
A. SNODGRASS rose to order . 
He threw himself upon the chair . 
He wished to know whether this disgraceful contest between two members of that club should be allowed to continue . 
'The CHAIRMAN was quite sure the hon . 
Pickwickian would withdraw the expression he had just made use of . 
BLOTTON , with all possible respect for the chair , was quite sure he would not . 
'The CHAIRMAN felt it his imperative duty to demand of the honourable gentleman , whether he had used the expression which had just escaped him in a common sense . 
BLOTTON had no hesitation in saying that he had not he had used the word in its Pickwickian sense . 
He was bound to acknowledge that , personally , he entertained the highest regard and esteem for the honourable gentleman he had merely considered him a humbug in a Pickwickian point of view . 
PICKWICK felt much gratified by the fair , candid , and full explanation of his honourable friend . 
He begged it to be at once understood , that his own observations had been merely intended to bear a Pickwickian construction . 
Here the entry terminates , as we have no doubt the debate did also , after arriving at such a highly satisfactory and intelligible point . 
We have no official statement of the facts which the reader will find recorded in the next chapter , but they have been carefully collated from letters and other MS . 
authorities , so unquestionably genuine as to justify their narration in a connected form . 
As well might I be content to gaze on Goswell Street for ever , without one effort to penetrate to the hidden countries which on every side surround it . 
And having given vent to this beautiful reflection , Mr. Pickwick proceeded to put himself into his clothes , and his clothes into his portmanteau . 
'Cab ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Here you are , sir . 
'Golden Cross , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Only a bob's vorth , Tommy , cried the driver sulkily , for the information of his friend the waterman , as the cab drove off . 
'How old is that horse , my friend ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , rubbing his nose with the shilling he had reserved for the fare . 
'Forty two , replied the driver , eyeing him askant . 
'What ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick , laying his hand upon his note book . 
The driver reiterated his former statement . 
Mr. Pickwick looked very hard at the man's face , but his features were immovable , so he noted down the fact forthwith . 
'And how long do you keep him out at a time ? 'inquired Mr. Pickwick , searching for further information . 
'Two or three veeks , replied the man . 
'Weeks ! said Mr. Pickwick in astonishment , and out came the note book again . 
'He lives at Pentonwil when he's at home , observed the driver coolly , 'but we seldom takes him home , on account of his weakness . 
'On account of his weakness ! reiterated the perplexed Mr. Pickwick . 
The entry was scarcely completed when they reached the Golden Cross . 
Down jumped the driver , and out got Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Tupman , Mr. Snodgrass , and Mr. Winkle , who had been anxiously waiting the arrival of their illustrious leader , crowded to welcome him . 
'Here's your fare , said Mr. Pickwick , holding out the shilling to the driver . 
for the amount ! 'You are mad , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Or drunk , said Mr. Winkle . 
'Or both , said Mr. Tupman . 
'Come on ! said the cab driver , sparring away like clockwork . 
'Come on all four on you . 
'Here's a lark ! shouted half a dozen hackney coachmen . 
'Go to vork , Sam ! and they crowded with great glee round the party . 
'What's the row , Sam ? inquired one gentleman in black calico sleeves . 
'Row ! replied the cabman , 'what did he want my number for ? 'I didn't want your number , said the astonished Mr. Pickwick . 
'What did you take it for , then ? inquired the cabman . 
'I didn't take it , said Mr. Pickwick indignantly . 
'Did he though ? inquired another cabman . 
'Yes , did he , replied the first 'and then arter aggerawatin' me to assault him , gets three witnesses here to prove it . 
But I'll give it him , if I've six months for it . 
'Where's an officer ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Put 'em under the pump , suggested a hot pieman . 
'You shall smart for this , gasped Mr. Pickwick . 
'Informers ! shouted the crowd . 
'Come on , cried the cabman , who had been sparring without cessation the whole time . 
'What's the fun ? said a rather tall , thin , young man , in a green coat , emerging suddenly from the coach yard . 
'informers ! shouted the crowd again . 
'We are not , roared Mr. Pickwick , in a tone which , to any dispassionate listener , carried conviction with it . 
That learned man in a few hurried words explained the real state of the case . 
'Come along , then , said he of the green coat , lugging Mr. Pickwick after him by main force , and talking the whole way . 
While his three companions were busily engaged in proffering their thanks to their new acquaintance , Mr. Pickwick had leisure to examine his costume and appearance . 
He was about the middle height , but the thinness of his body , and the length of his legs , gave him the appearance of being much taller . 
It was buttoned closely up to his chin , at the imminent hazard of splitting the back and an old stock , without a vestige of shirt collar , ornamented his neck . 
His face was thin and haggard but an indescribable air of jaunty impudence and perfect self possession pervaded the whole man . 
, and to whom he proceeded , when his friends had exhausted themselves , to return in chosen terms his warmest thanks for his recent assistance . 
This coherent speech was interrupted by the entrance of the Rochester coachman , to announce that 'the Commodore' was on the point of starting . 
'Up with you , said the stranger , assisting Mr. Pickwick on to the roof with so much precipitation as to impair the gravity of that gentleman's deportment very materially . 
'Any luggage , Sir ? inquired the coachman . 
'Ah ! I see in at the palace door one day , out at the window the next . 
Philosopher , Sir ? 'An observer of human nature , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Ah , so am I. Most people are when they've little to do and less to get . 
Poet , Sir ? 'My friend Mr. Snodgrass has a strong poetic turn , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'So have I , said the stranger . 
'Epic poem ten thousand lines revolution of July composed it on the spot Mars by day , Apollo by night bang the field piece , twang the lyre . 
'You were present at that glorious scene , sir ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
Sportsman , sir ? 'abruptly turning to Mr. Winkle . 
A remarkable instance of the prophetic force of Mr. Jingle's imagination this dialogue occurring in the year , and the Revolution in . 
'A little , Sir , replied that gentleman . 
'Fine pursuit , sir fine pursuit . 
Dogs , Sir ? 'Not just now , said Mr. Winkle . 
'Singular circumstance that , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Will you allow me to make a note of it ? 'Certainly , Sir , certainly hundred more anecdotes of the same animal . 
'Very ! said Mr. Tupman . 
'English girls not so fine as Spanish noble creatures jet hair black eyes lovely forms sweet creatures beautiful . 
'You have been in Spain , sir ? said Mr. Tracy Tupman . 
'Many conquests , sir ? inquired Mr. Tupman . 
'Is the lady in England now , sir ? inquired Mr. Tupman , on whom the description of her charms had produced a powerful impression . 
'Dead , sir dead , said the stranger , applying to his right eye the brief remnant of a very old cambric handkerchief . 
'Never recovered the stomach pump undermined constitution fell a victim . 
'And her father ? inquired the poetic Snodgrass . 
'Remorse and misery , replied the stranger . 
'Will you allow me to note that little romance down , Sir ? said Mr. Snodgrass , deeply affected . 
'Certainly , Sir , certainly fifty more if you like to hear 'em strange life mine rather curious history not extraordinary , but singular . 
'Magnificent ruin ! said Mr. Augustus Snodgrass , with all the poetic fervour that distinguished him , when they came in sight of the fine old castle . 
'What a sight for an antiquarian ! were the very words which fell from Mr. Pickwick's mouth , as he applied his telescope to his eye . 
'Do you remain here , Sir ? inquired Mr. Nathaniel Winkle . 
Mr. Pickwick addressed the stranger . 
'Evidently a traveller in many countries , and a close observer of men and things , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I should like to see his poem , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'I should like to have seen that dog , said Mr. Winkle . 
Mr. Tupman said nothing but he thought of Donna Christina , the stomach pump , and the fountain and his eyes filled with tears . 
A private sitting room having been engaged , bedrooms inspected , and dinner ordered , the party walked out to view the city and adjoining neighbourhood . 
His general description is easily abridged . 
'The principal productions of these towns , says Mr. Pickwick , 'appear to be soldiers , sailors , Jews , chalk , shrimps , officers , and dockyard men . 
The commodities chiefly exposed for sale in the public streets are marine stores , hard bake , apples , flat fish , and oysters . 
The streets present a lively and animated appearance , occasioned chiefly by the conviviality of the military . 
Nothing , adds Mr. Pickwick , 'can exceed their good humour . 
It was but the day before my arrival that one of them had been most grossly insulted in the house of a publican . 
drawn his bayonet , and wounded the girl in the shoulder . 
A superficial traveller might object to the dirt , which is their leading characteristic but to those who view it as an indication of traffic and commercial prosperity , it is truly gratifying . 
Punctual to five o'clock came the stranger , and shortly afterwards the dinner . 
He had divested himself of his brown paper parcel , but had made no alteration in his attire , and was , if possible , more loquacious than ever . 
'What's that ? he inquired , as the waiter removed one of the covers . 
'Soles ah ! capital fish all come from London stage coach proprietors get up political dinners carriage of soles dozens of baskets cunning fellows . 
Glass of wine , Sir . 
'Devil of a mess on the staircase , waiter , said the stranger . 
'Forms going up carpenters coming down lamps , glasses , harps . 
What's going forward ? 'Ball , Sir , said the waiter . 
'Assembly , eh ? 'No , Sir , not assembly , Sir . 
Ball for the benefit of a charity , Sir . 
'Many fine women in this town , do you know , Sir ? inquired Mr. Tupman , with great interest . 
Kent , sir everybody knows Kent apples , cherries , hops , and women . 
Glass of wine , Sir ! 'With great pleasure , replied Mr. Tupman . 
The stranger filled , and emptied . 
'I should very much like to go , said Mr. Tupman , resuming the subject of the ball , 'very much . 
'Tickets at the bar , Sir , interposed the waiter 'half a guinea each , Sir . 
The waiter withdrew , and the party were left to enjoy the cosy couple of hours succeeding dinner . 
The wine was passed , and a fresh supply ordered . 
The visitor talked , the Pickwickians listened . 
Mr. Tupman felt every moment more disposed for the ball . 
Mr. Pickwick's countenance glowed with an expression of universal philanthropy , and Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass fell fast asleep . 
'They're beginning upstairs , said the stranger 'hear the company fiddles tuning now the harp there they go . 
The various sounds which found their way downstairs announced the commencement of the first quadrille . 
'How I should like to go , said Mr. Tupman again . 
The stranger took Mr. Winkle's measure with his eye , and that feature glistened with satisfaction as he said , 'Just the thing . 
Mr. Tupman looked round him . 
The wine , which had exerted its somniferous influence over Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle , had stolen upon the senses of Mr. Pickwick . 
That gentleman had gradually passed through the various stages which precede the lethargy produced by dinner , and its consequences . 
He had undergone the ordinary transitions from the height of conviviality to the depth of misery , and from the depth of misery to the height of conviviality . 
His head was sunk upon his bosom , and perpetual snoring , with a partial choke occasionally , were the only audible indications of the great man's presence . 
The temptation to be present at the ball , and to form his first impressions of the beauty of the Kentish ladies , was strong upon Mr. Tupman . 
The temptation to take the stranger with him was equally great . 
He was wholly unacquainted with the place and its inhabitants , and the stranger seemed to possess as great a knowledge of both as if he had lived there from his infancy . 
'Fill your glass , and pass the wine , said the indefatigable visitor . 
Mr. Tupman did as he was requested and the additional stimulus of the last glass settled his determination . 
'Capital , said the stranger , 'famous plan damned odd situation fourteen coats in the packing cases , and obliged to wear another man's very good notion , that very . 
'We must purchase our tickets , said Mr. Tupman . 
Mr. Tupman rang the bell , purchased the tickets , and ordered chamber candlesticks . 
In another quarter of an hour the stranger was completely arrayed in a full suit of Mr. Nathaniel Winkle's . 
'Like a general postman's coat queer coats those made by contract no measuring mysterious dispensations of Providence all the short men get long coats all the long men short ones . 
'What names , sir ? said the man at the door . 
Mr. Tracy Tupman was stepping forward to announce his own titles , when the stranger prevented him . 
the thing gentlemen from London distinguished foreigners anything . 
The door was thrown open , and Mr. Tracy Tupman and the stranger entered the ballroom . 
It was a long room , with crimson covered benches , and wax candles in glass chandeliers . 
The musicians were securely confined in an elevated den , and quadrilles were being systematically got through by two or three sets of dancers . 
Two card tables were made up in the adjoining card room , and two pair of old ladies , and a corresponding number of stout gentlemen , were executing whist therein . 
The finale concluded , the dancers promenaded the room , and Mr. Tupman and his companion stationed themselves in a corner to observe the company . 
'Charming women , said Mr. Tupman . 
'Who's that little boy with the light hair and pink eyes , in a fancy dress ? 'inquired Mr. Tupman . 
'Hush , pray pink eyes fancy dress little boy nonsense ensign th Honourable Wilmot Snipe great family Snipes very . 
'Sir Thomas Clubber , Lady Clubber , and the Misses Clubber ! shouted the man at the door in a stentorian voice . 
Smithie , Mrs. Smithie , and the Misses Smithie , was the next announcement . 
'What's Mr. Smithie ? inquired Mr. Tracy Tupman . 
'Something in the yard , replied the stranger . 
Mr. Smithie bowed deferentially to Sir Thomas Clubber and Sir Thomas Clubber acknowledged the salute with conscious condescension . 
'Colonel Bulder , Mrs. Colonel Bulder , and Miss Bulder , were the next arrivals . 
'Head of the garrison , said the stranger , in reply to Mr. Tupman's inquiring look . 
The less aristocratic officers of the th devoted themselves to the families of the less important functionaries from the dockyard . 
and Mrs. Tomlinson , the post office keeper , seemed by mutual consent to have been chosen the leader of the trade party . 
The doctor took snuff with everybody , chatted with everybody , laughed , danced , made jokes , played whist , did everything , and was everywhere . 
Upon the doctor , and the widow , the eyes of both Mr. Tupman and his companion had been fixed for some time , when the stranger broke silence . 
'Lots of money old girl pompous doctor not a bad idea good fun , were the intelligible sentences which issued from his lips . 
Mr. Tupman looked inquisitively in his face . 
'I'll dance with the widow , said the stranger . 
'Who is she ? inquired Mr. Tupman . 
'Don't know never saw her in all my life cut out the doctor here goes . 
Mr. Tupman looked on , in mute astonishment . 
The stranger walked boldly up to , and returned with , the master of the ceremonies a little introductory pantomime and the stranger and Mrs. Budger took their places in a quadrille . 
The surprise of Mr. Tupman at this summary proceeding , great as it was , was immeasurably exceeded by the astonishment of the doctor . 
The stranger was young , and the widow was flattered . 
The doctor's attentions were unheeded by the widow and the doctor's indignation was wholly lost on his imperturbable rival . 
as if a quadrille were not a thing to be laughed at , but a severe trial to the feelings , which it requires inflexible resolution to encounter . 
The stranger was returning , and Mr. Tupman was beside him . 
He spoke in a low tone , and laughed . 
The little doctor thirsted for his life . 
He would have added more , but his indignation choked him . 
'Ah ! replied the stranger coolly , 'Slammer much obliged polite attention not ill now , Slammer but when I am knock you up . 
'You are stopping in this house , Sir , said the indignant little man 'you are intoxicated now , Sir you shall hear from me in the morning , sir . 
I shall find you out , sir I shall find you out . 
'Rather you found me out than found me at home , replied the unmoved stranger . 
That gentleman was fast asleep the restoration was soon made . 
The stranger was extremely jocose and Mr. Tracy Tupman , being quite bewildered with wine , negus , lights , and ladies , thought the whole affair was an exquisite joke . 
'Who's there ? said Mr. Pickwick , starting up in bed . 
Winkle , 'he called out , 'next room but two , on the right hand . 
'Thank'ee , sir , said the Boots , and away he went . 
'What's the matter ? cried Mr. Tupman , as a loud knocking at his door roused hint from his oblivious repose . 
'Can I speak to Mr. Winkle , sir ? replied Boots from the outside . 
'Winkle Winkle ! shouted Mr. Tupman , calling into the inner room . 
'Hollo ! replied a faint voice from within the bed clothes . 
'You're wanted some one at the door and , having exerted himself to articulate thus much , Mr. Tracy Tupman turned round and fell fast asleep again . 
'Very odd ! said Mr. Winkle 'I'll be down directly . 
He hurriedly wrapped himself in a travelling shawl and dressing gown , and proceeded downstairs . 
An old woman and a couple of waiters were cleaning the coffee room , and an officer in undress uniform was looking out of the window . 
He turned round as Mr. Winkle entered , and made a stiff inclination of the head . 
Having ordered the attendants to retire , and closed the door very carefully , he said , 'Mr . 
Winkle , I presume ? 'My name is Winkle , sir . 
'You will not be surprised , sir , when I inform you that I have called here this morning on behalf of my friend , Doctor Slammer , of the th . 
'Doctor Slammer ! said Mr. Winkle . 
'which no one gentleman would pursue towards another . 
'A written apology ! repeated Mr. Winkle , in the most emphatic tone of amazement possible . 
'Of course you know the alternative , replied the visitor coolly . 
'Were you intrusted with this message to me by name ? inquired Mr. Winkle , whose intellects were hopelessly confused by this extraordinary conversation . 
I immediately sent up to the gentleman who was described as appearing the head of the party , and he at once referred me to you . 
His first impression was that his coat had been stolen . 
'Will you allow me to detain you one moment ? said he . 
'Certainly , replied the unwelcome visitor . 
Mr. Winkle ran hastily upstairs , and with a trembling hand opened the bag . 
There was the coat in its usual place , but exhibiting , on a close inspection , evident tokens of having been worn on the preceding night . 
'It must be so , said Mr. Winkle , letting the coat fall from his hands . 
'I took too much wine after dinner , and have a very vague recollection of walking about the streets , and smoking a cigar afterwards . 
The fact is , I was very drunk I must have changed my coat gone somewhere and insulted somebody I have no doubt of it and this message is the terrible consequence . 
To this determination Mr. Winkle was urged by a variety of considerations , the first of which was his reputation with the club . 
Such were his thoughts when he returned to the coffee room , and intimated his intention of accepting the doctor's challenge . 
'Will you refer me to a friend , to arrange the time and place of meeting ? said the officer . 
'Quite unnecessary , replied Mr. Winkle 'name them to me , and I can procure the attendance of a friend afterwards . 
'Shall we say sunset this evening ? inquired the officer , in a careless tone . 
'Very good , replied Mr. Winkle , thinking in his heart it was very bad . 
'You know Fort Pitt ? 'Yes I saw it yesterday . 
'Fear of interruption ! thought Mr. Winkle . 
'Nothing more to arrange , I think , said the officer . 
'I am not aware of anything more , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'Good morning and the officer whistled a lively air as he strode away . 
That morning's breakfast passed heavily off . 
Mr. Winkle eagerly watched his opportunity it was not long wanting . 
Mr. Snodgrass proposed a visit to the castle , and as Mr. Winkle was the only other member of the party disposed to walk , they went out together . 
'Snodgrass , said Mr. Winkle , when they had turned out of the public street . 
'Snodgrass , my dear fellow , can I rely upon your secrecy ? As he said this , he most devoutly and earnestly hoped he could not . 
'You can , replied Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Hear me swear 'No , no , interrupted Winkle , terrified at the idea of his companion's unconsciously pledging himself not to give information 'don't swear , don't swear it's quite unnecessary . 
Mr. Snodgrass dropped the hand which he had , in the spirit of poesy , raised towards the clouds as he made the above appeal , and assumed an attitude of attention . 
'I want your assistance , my dear fellow , in an affair of honour , said Mr. Winkle . 
'You shall have it , replied Mr. Snodgrass , clasping his friend's hand . 
'I will attend you , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
He was astonished , but by no means dismayed . 
It is extraordinary how cool any party but the principal can be in such cases . 
Mr. Winkle had forgotten this . 
He had judged of his friend's feelings by his own . 
'The consequences may be dreadful , said Mr. Winkle . 
'I hope not , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'The doctor , I believe , is a very good shot , said Mr. Winkle . 
This attack was a failure also . 
Mr. Snodgrass was affected , but he undertook the delivery of the note as readily as if he had been a twopenny postman . 
'If I fall , said Mr. Winkle , 'or if the doctor falls , you , my dear friend , will be tried as an accessory before the fact . 
Shall I involve my friend in transportation possibly for life ! Mr. Snodgrass winced a little at this , but his heroism was invincible . 
'In the cause of friendship , he fervently exclaimed , 'I would brave all dangers . 
it was a dull and heavy evening when they again sallied forth on their awkward errand . 
Mr. Winkle was muffled up in a huge cloak to escape observation , and Mr. Snodgrass bore under his the instruments of destruction . 
'Have you got everything ? said Mr. Winkle , in an agitated tone . 
'Everything , replied Mr. Snodgrass 'plenty of ammunition , in case the shots don't take effect . 
There's a quarter of a pound of powder in the case , and I have got two newspapers in my pocket for the loadings . 
These were instances of friendship for which any man might reasonably feel most grateful . 
The presumption is , that the gratitude of Mr. Winkle was too powerful for utterance , as he said nothing , but continued to walk on rather slowly . 
'We are in excellent time , said Mr. Snodgrass , as they climbed the fence of the first field 'the sun is just going down . 
Mr. Winkle looked up at the declining orb and painfully thought of the probability of his 'going down' himself , before long . 
'There's the officer , exclaimed Mr. Winkle , after a few minutes walking . 
'Where ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'There the gentleman in the blue cloak . 
Mr. Snodgrass looked in the direction indicated by the forefinger of his friend , and observed a figure , muffled up , as he had described . 
The officer evinced his consciousness of their presence by slightly beckoning with his hand and the two friends followed him at a little distance , as he walked away . 
The evening grew more dull every moment , and a melancholy wind sounded through the deserted fields , like a distant giant whistling for his house dog . 
The sadness of the scene imparted a sombre tinge to the feelings of Mr. Winkle . 
He started as they passed the angle of the trench it looked like a colossal grave . 
The officer turned suddenly from the path , and after climbing a paling , and scaling a hedge , entered a secluded field . 
'The other party , and a surgeon , I suppose , said Mr. Snodgrass 'take a drop of brandy . 
Mr. Winkle seized the wicker bottle which his friend proffered , and took a lengthened pull at the exhilarating liquid . 
'My friend , Sir , Mr. Snodgrass , said Mr. Winkle , as the officer approached . 
Doctor Slammer's friend bowed , and produced a case similar to that which Mr. Snodgrass carried . 
'We have nothing further to say , Sir , I think , he coldly remarked , as he opened the case 'an apology has been resolutely declined . 
'Nothing , Sir , said Mr. Snodgrass , who began to feel rather uncomfortable himself . 
'Will you step forward ? said the officer . 
'Certainly , replied Mr. Snodgrass . 
The ground was measured , and preliminaries arranged . 
'You will find these better than your own , said the opposite second , producing his pistols . 
'You saw me load them . 
Do you object to use them ? 'Certainly not , replied Mr. Snodgrass . 
The offer relieved him from considerable embarrassment , for his previous notions of loading a pistol were rather vague and undefined . 
'We may place our men , then , I think , observed the officer , with as much indifference as if the principals were chess men , and the seconds players . 
'I think we may , replied Mr. Snodgrass who would have assented to any proposition , because he knew nothing about the matter . 
The officer crossed to Doctor Slammer , and Mr. Snodgrass went up to Mr. Winkle . 
'It's all ready , said he , offering the pistol . 
'You have got the packet , my dear fellow , said poor Winkle . 
'All right , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Be steady , and wing him . 
He took off his cloak , however , in silence it always took a long time to undo that cloak and accepted the pistol . 
The seconds retired , the gentleman on the camp stool did the same , and the belligerents approached each other . 
Mr. Winkle was always remarkable for extreme humanity . 
'Not the man ! said Doctor Slammer's second . 
'Not the man ! said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Not the man ! said the gentleman with the camp stool in his hand . 
'Certainly not , replied the little doctor . 
'That's not the person who insulted me last night . 
'Very extraordinary ! exclaimed the officer . 
'Very , said the gentleman with the camp stool . 
'Then , that , said the man with the camp stool , 'is an affront to Doctor Slammer , and a sufficient reason for proceeding immediately . 
'Pray be quiet , Payne , said the doctor's second . 
'Why did you not communicate this fact to me this morning , Sir ? 'To be sure to be sure , said the man with the camp stool indignantly . 
'I entreat you to be quiet , Payne , said the other . 
The honour of that uniform I feel bound to maintain , and I therefore , without inquiry , accepted the challenge which you offered me . 
'My dear Sir , said the good humoured little doctor advancing with extended hand , 'I honour your gallantry . 
Permit me to say , Sir , that I highly admire your conduct , and extremely regret having caused you the inconvenience of this meeting , to no purpose . 
'I beg you won't mention it , Sir , said Mr. Winkle . 
'I shall feel proud of your acquaintance , Sir , said the little doctor . 
'It will afford me the greatest pleasure to know you , sir , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'I think we may adjourn , said Lieutenant Tappleton . 
'Certainly , added the doctor . 
'Unless , interposed the man with the camp stool , 'unless Mr. Winkle feels himself aggrieved by the challenge in which case , I submit , he has a right to satisfaction . 
Mr. Winkle , with great self denial , expressed himself quite satisfied already . 
The two seconds adjusted the cases , and the whole party left the ground in a much more lively manner than they had proceeded to it . 
'Do you remain long here ? inquired Doctor Slammer of Mr. Winkle , as they walked on most amicably together . 
'I think we shall leave here the day after to morrow , was the reply . 
Perhaps you and your friend will join us at the Bull . 
'With great pleasure , said the little doctor 'will ten o'clock be too late to look in for half an hour ? 'Oh dear , no , said Mr. Winkle . 
'I shall be most happy to introduce you to my friends , Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tupman . 
'It will give me great pleasure , I am sure , replied Doctor Slammer , little suspecting who Mr. Tupman was . 
'You will be sure to come ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
By this time they had reached the road . 
Cordial farewells were exchanged , and the party separated . 
Doctor Slammer and his friends repaired to the barracks , and Mr. Winkle , accompanied by Mr. Snodgrass , returned to their inn . 
Round his neck he wore a green shawl , with the large ends straggling over his chest , and making their appearance occasionally beneath the worn button holes of his old waistcoat . 
His upper garment was a long black surtout and below it he wore wide drab trousers , and large boots , running rapidly to seed . 
He was about to favour us with a little anecdote connected with it , when you entered . 
'Lots of anecdote , said the green coated stranger of the day before , advancing to Mr. Winkle and speaking in a low and confidential tone . 
'Rum fellow does the heavy business no actor strange man all sorts of miseries Dismal Jemmy , we call him on the circuit . 
'Certainly , said Mr. Snodgrass for the sunken eye of the dismal man rested on him , and he felt it necessary to say something . 
'Go on , Jemmy , said the Spanish traveller , 'like black eyed Susan all in the Downs no croaking speak out look lively . 
'Will you make another glass before you begin , Sir ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
THE STROLLER'S TALE 'There is nothing of the marvellous in what I am going to relate , said the dismal man 'there is nothing even uncommon in it . 
Want and sickness are too common in many stations of life to deserve more notice than is usually bestowed on the most ordinary vicissitudes of human nature . 
I have thrown these few notes together , because the subject of them was well known to me for many years . 
I traced his progress downwards , step by step , until at last he reached that excess of destitution from which he never rose again . 
'The man of whom I speak was a low pantomime actor and , like many people of his class , an habitual drunkard . 
His besetting sin gained so fast upon him , however , that it was found impossible to employ him in the situations in which he really was useful to the theatre . 
The public house had a fascination for him which he could not resist . 
He could obtain no engagement , and he wanted bread . 
I was dressed to leave the house , and was crossing the stage on my way out , when he tapped me on the shoulder . 
Never shall I forget the repulsive sight that met my eye when I turned round . 
He was dressed for the pantomimes in all the absurdity of a clown's costume . 
The spectral figures in the Dance of Death , the most frightful shapes that the ablest painter ever portrayed on canvas , never presented an appearance half so ghastly . 
I put a few shillings in his hand , and as I turned away I heard the roar of laughter which followed his first tumble on the stage . 
I promised to comply , as soon as I could get away and after the curtain fell , sallied forth on my melancholy errand . 
'It was late , for I had been playing in the last piece and , as it was a benefit night , the performances had been protracted to an unusual length . 
It was a dark , cold night , with a chill , damp wind , which blew the rain heavily against the windows and house fronts . 
'He was lying on an old bedstead , which turned up during the day . 
A little child was sleeping on a temporary bed which had been made for it on the floor , and the woman sat on a chair by its side . 
There were a couple of shelves , with a few plates and cups and saucers and a pair of stage shoes and a couple of foils hung beneath them . 
With the exception of little heaps of rags and bundles which had been carelessly thrown into the corners of the room , these were the only things in the apartment . 
'I had had time to note these little particulars , and to mark the heavy breathing and feverish startings of the sick man , before he was aware of my presence . 
In the restless attempts to procure some easy resting place for his head , he tossed his hand out of the bed , and it fell on mine . 
He started up , and stared eagerly in my face . 
Mr. Hutley , John , said his wife Mr. Hutley , that you sent for to night , you know . 
Ah ! said the invalid , passing his hand across his forehead Hutley Hutley let me see . 
He seemed endeavouring to collect his thoughts for a few seconds , and then grasping me tightly by the wrist said , Don't leave me don't leave me , old fellow . 
She'll murder me I know she will . 
Has he been long so ? said I , addressing his weeping wife . 
Since yesterday night , she replied . 
John , John , don't you know me ? Don't let her come near me , said the man , with a shudder , as she stooped over him . 
Drive her away I can't bear her near me . 
I have starved her and the boy too and now I am weak and helpless , Jem , she'll murder me for it I know she will . 
If you'd seen her cry , as I have , you'd know it too . 
He relaxed his grasp , and sank back exhausted on the pillow . 
'I knew but too well what all this meant . 
You had better stand aside , said I to the poor creature . 
You can do him no good . 
Perhaps he will be calmer , if he does not see you . 
She retired out of the man's sight . 
He opened his eyes after a few seconds , and looked anxiously round . 
Is she gone ? he eagerly inquired . 
Yes yes , said I she shall not hurt you . 
I'll tell you what , Jem , said the man , in a low voice , she does hurt me . 
There's something in her eyes wakes such a dreadful fear in my heart , that it drives me mad . 
He drew me closer to him , as he said in a deep alarmed whisper , Jem , she must be an evil spirit a devil ! Hush ! I know she is . 
If she had been a woman she would have died long ago . 
No woman could have borne what she has . 
'I sickened at the thought of the long course of cruelty and neglect which must have occurred to produce such an impression on such a man . 
The last four and twenty hours had produced a frightful alteration . 
The eyes , though deeply sunk and heavy , shone with a lustre frightful to behold . 
The fever was at its height . 
From what I had heard of the medical attendant's opinion , I knew there was no hope for him I was sitting by his death bed . 
The theatre and the public house were the chief themes of the wretched man's wanderings . 
It was evening , he fancied he had a part to play that night it was late , and he must leave home instantly . 
Why did they hold him , and prevent his going ? he should lose the money he must go . 
No ! they would not let him . 
He hid his face in his burning hands , and feebly bemoaned his own weakness , and the cruelty of his persecutors . 
A short pause , and he shouted out a few doggerel rhymes the last he had ever learned . 
He rose in bed , drew up his withered limbs , and rolled about in uncouth positions he was acting he was at the theatre . 
A minute's silence , and he murmured the burden of some roaring song . 
He had reached the old house at last how hot the room was . 
He had been ill , very ill , but he was well now , and happy . 
Who was that , that dashed it from his lips ? It was the same persecutor that had followed him before . 
He fell back upon his pillow and moaned aloud . 
There were insects , too , hideous crawling things , with eyes that stared upon him , and filled the very air around , glistening horribly amidst the thick darkness of the place . 
'At the close of one of these paroxysms , when I had with great difficulty held him down in his bed , he sank into what appeared to be a slumber . 
Overpowered with watching and exertion , I had closed my eyes for a few minutes , when I felt a violent clutch on my shoulder . 
He had raised himself up , so as to seat himself in bed a dreadful change had come over his face , but consciousness had returned , for he evidently knew me . 
He grasped my shoulder convulsively , and , striking his breast with the other hand , made a desperate attempt to articulate . 
It was unavailing he extended his arm towards them , and made another violent effort . 
We have little doubt that we should have been enabled to present it to our readers , but for a most unfortunate occurrence . 
'Oh ! said Mr. Winkle , rising , 'some friends of mine show them in . 
Very pleasant fellows , added Mr. Winkle , after the waiter had retired 'officers of the th , whose acquaintance I made rather oddly this morning . 
You will like them very much . 
Mr. Pickwick's equanimity was at once restored . 
The waiter returned , and ushered three gentlemen into the room . 
'I have met THIS gentleman before , said the Doctor , with marked emphasis . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Winkle . 
'And and that person , too , if I am not mistaken , said the doctor , bestowing a scrutinising glance on the green coated stranger . 
'I think I gave that person a very pressing invitation last night , which he thought proper to decline . 
Saying which the doctor scowled magnanimously on the stranger , and whispered his friend Lieutenant Tappleton . 
'You don't say so , said that gentleman , at the conclusion of the whisper . 
'I do , indeed , replied Doctor Slammer . 
'You are bound to kick him on the spot , murmured the owner of the camp stool , with great importance . 
'Do be quiet , Payne , interposed the lieutenant . 
'He is a member of your club , or I am mistaken ? said the lieutenant inquiringly . 
'Certainly not , responded Mr. Pickwick . 
'And never wears your club button ? said the lieutenant . 
'No never ! replied the astonished Mr. Pickwick . 
Lieutenant Tappleton turned round to his friend Doctor Slammer , with a scarcely perceptible shrug of the shoulder , as if implying some doubt of the accuracy of his recollection . 
The little doctor looked wrathful , but confounded and Mr. Payne gazed with a ferocious aspect on the beaming countenance of the unconscious Pickwick . 
'That person was your companion , said the doctor , pointing to the still unmoved stranger . 
Mr. Tupman admitted the fact . 
Tupman , recount the circumstances . 
'He is a strolling actor ! said the lieutenant contemptuously , turning to Doctor Slammer . 
'He acts in the piece that the officers of the nd get up at the Rochester Theatre to morrow night . 
You cannot proceed in this affair , Slammer impossible ! 'Quite ! said the dignified Payne . 
Good evening , Sir ! and the lieutenant bounced out of the room . 
I would , sir every man . 
Payne is my name , sir Doctor Payne of the rd . 
Rising rage and extreme bewilderment had swelled the noble breast of Mr. Pickwick , almost to the bursting of his waistcoat , during the delivery of the above defiance . 
He stood transfixed to the spot , gazing on vacancy . 
The closing of the door recalled him to himself . 
He rushed forward with fury in his looks , and fire in his eye . 
'Restrain him , cried Mr. Snodgrass 'Winkle , Tupman he must not peril his distinguished life in such a cause as this . 
'Let me go , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Hold him tight , shouted Mr. Snodgrass and by the united efforts of the whole company , Mr. Pickwick was forced into an arm chair . 
'Leave him alone , said the green coated stranger 'brandy and water jolly old gentleman lots of pluck swallow this ah ! capital stuff . 
There was a short pause the brandy and water had done its work the amiable countenance of Mr. Pickwick was fast recovering its customary expression . 
'They are not worth your notice , said the dismal man . 
'You are right , sir , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'they are not . 
I am ashamed to have been betrayed into this warmth of feeling . 
Draw your chair up to the table , Sir . 
The dismal man readily complied a circle was again formed round the table , and harmony once more prevailed . 
With this exception , their good humour was completely restored and the evening concluded with the conviviality with which it had begun . 
We have no such feeling . 
The Pickwick papers are our New River Head and we may be compared to the New River Company . 
The labours of others have raised for us an immense reservoir of important facts . 
We merely lay them on , and communicate them , in a clear and gentle stream , through the medium of these pages , to a world thirsting for Pickwickian knowledge . 
The whole population of Rochester and the adjoining towns rose from their beds at an early hour of the following morning , in a state of the utmost bustle and excitement . 
A grand review was to take place upon the lines . 
Mr. Pickwick was , as our readers may have gathered from the slight extract we gave from his description of Chatham , an enthusiastic admirer of the army . 
Nothing could have been more delightful to him nothing could have harmonised so well with the peculiar feeling of each of his companions as this sight . 
Accordingly they were soon afoot , and walking in the direction of the scene of action , towards which crowds of people were already pouring from a variety of quarters . 
The appearance of everything on the lines denoted that the approaching ceremony was one of the utmost grandeur and importance . 
Mr. Pickwick and his three companions stationed themselves in the front of the crowd , and patiently awaited the commencement of the proceedings . 
The throng was increasing every moment and the efforts they were compelled to make , to retain the position they had gained , sufficiently occupied their attention during the two hours that ensued . 
, rendered their situation upon the whole rather more uncomfortable than pleasing or desirable . 
At length that low roar of many voices ran through the crowd which usually announces the arrival of whatever they have been waiting for . 
All eyes were turned in the direction of the sally port . 
A few moments of eager expectation , and colours were seen fluttering gaily in the air , arms glistened brightly in the sun , column after column poured on to the plain . 
When he was at last enabled to stand firmly on his legs , his gratification and delight were unbounded . 
'Can anything be finer or more delightful ? he inquired of Mr. Winkle . 
'Nothing , replied that gentleman , who had had a short man standing on each of his feet for the quarter of an hour immediately preceding . 
'We are in a capital situation now , said Mr. Pickwick , looking round him . 
The crowd had gradually dispersed in their immediate vicinity , and they were nearly alone . 
'Capital ! echoed both Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle . 
'What are they doing now ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , adjusting his spectacles . 
'I I rather think , said Mr. Winkle , changing colour 'I rather think they're going to fire . 
'Nonsense , said Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
'I I really think they are , urged Mr. Snodgrass , somewhat alarmed . 
'Impossible , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'But but suppose some of the men should happen to have ball cartridges by mistake , remonstrated Mr. Winkle , pallid at the supposition he was himself conjuring up . 
'I heard something whistle through the air now so sharp close to my ear . 
'We had better throw ourselves on our faces , hadn't we ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'No , no it's over now , said Mr. Pickwick . 
His lip might quiver , and his cheek might blanch , but no expression of fear or concern escaped the lips of that immortal man . 
Man is but mortal and there is a point beyond which human courage cannot extend . 
'Hoi ! shouted the officers of the advancing line . 
'Get out of the way ! cried the officers of the stationary one . 
'Where are we to go to ? screamed the agitated Pickwickians . 
'Hoi hoi hoi ! was the only reply . 
A vast deal of coolness , and a peculiar degree of judgment , are requisite in catching a hat . 
A man must not be precipitate , or he runs over it he must not rush into the opposite extreme , or he loses it altogether . 
There was a fine gentle wind , and Mr. Pickwick's hat rolled sportively before it . 
Mr. Pickwick , perceiving his advantage , darted briskly forward , secured his property , planted it on his head , and paused to take breath . 
Mr. Pickwick had bestowed a hasty glance on these interesting objects , when he was again greeted by his faithful disciple . 
'Pickwick Pickwick , said Mr. Tupman 'come up here . 
Pray , come up , said the stout gentleman . 
'Joe ! damn that boy , he's gone to sleep again . 
Joe , let down the steps . 
The fat boy rolled slowly off the box , let down the steps , and held the carriage door invitingly open . 
Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle came up at the moment . 
'Room for you all , gentlemen , said the stout man . 
'Two inside , and one out . 
Joe , make room for one of these gentlemen on the box . 
Now , Sir , come along and the stout gentleman extended his arm , and pulled first Mr. Pickwick , and then Mr. Snodgrass , into the barouche by main force . 
Mr. Winkle mounted to the box , the fat boy waddled to the same perch , and fell fast asleep instantly . 
'Well , gentlemen , said the stout man , 'very glad to see you . 
Know you very well , gentlemen , though you mayn't remember me . 
I spent some ev'nin's at your club last winter picked up my friend Mr. Tupman here this morning , and very glad I was to see him . 
Well , Sir , and how are you ? You do look uncommon well , to be sure . 
Mr. Pickwick acknowledged the compliment , and cordially shook hands with the stout gentleman in the top boots . 
'Well , and how are you , sir ? said the stout gentleman , addressing Mr. Snodgrass with paternal anxiety . 
'Charming , eh ? Well , that's right that's right . 
? Well , I am glad to hear you say you are well very glad I am , to be sure . 
My daughters , gentlemen my gals these are and that's my sister , Miss Rachael Wardle . 
'Lor , brother ! said Miss Wardle , with a deprecating smile . 
'True , true , said the stout gentleman 'no one can deny it . 
Gentlemen , I beg your pardon this is my friend Mr. Trundle . 
And now you all know each other , let's be comfortable and happy , and see what's going forward that's what I say . 
Everybody was excited , except the fat boy , and he slept as soundly as if the roaring of cannon were his ordinary lullaby . 
'Joe , Joe ! said the stout gentleman , when the citadel was taken , and the besiegers and besieged sat down to dinner . 
'Damn that boy , he's gone to sleep again . 
Be good enough to pinch him , sir in the leg , if you please nothing else wakes him thank you . 
Undo the hamper , Joe . 
'Now we must sit close , said the stout gentleman . 
'Now , Joe , knives and forks . 
The knives and forks were handed in , and the ladies and gentlemen inside , and Mr. Winkle on the box , were each furnished with those useful instruments . 
'Plates , Joe , plates . 
A similar process employed in the distribution of the crockery . 
'Now , Joe , the fowls . 
Damn that boy he's gone to sleep again . 
'Come , hand in the eatables . 
There was something in the sound of the last word which roused the unctuous boy . 
He jumped up , and the leaden eyes which twinkled behind his mountainous cheeks leered horribly upon the food as he unpacked it from the basket . 
'Now make haste , said Mr. Wardle for the fat boy was hanging fondly over a capon , which he seemed wholly unable to part with . 
The boy sighed deeply , and , bestowing an ardent gaze upon its plumpness , unwillingly consigned it to his master . 
Now the tongue now the pigeon pie . 
Take care of that veal and ham mind the lobsters take the salad out of the cloth give me the dressing . 
'Now ain't this capital ? inquired that jolly personage , when the work of destruction had commenced . 
'Capital ! said Mr. Winkle , who was carving a fowl on the box . 
'Glass of wine ? 'With the greatest pleasure . 
'You'd better have a bottle to yourself up there , hadn't you ? 'You're very good . 
'Joe ! 'Yes , Sir . 
'Bottle of wine to the gentleman on the box . 
Glad to see you , Sir . 
Mr. Winkle emptied his glass , and placed the bottle on the coach box , by his side . 
'Will you permit me to have the pleasure , Sir ? said Mr. Trundle to Mr. Winkle . 
'With great pleasure , replied Mr. Winkle to Mr. Trundle , and then the two gentlemen took wine , after which they took a glass of wine round , ladies and all . 
'How dear Emily is flirting with the strange gentleman , whispered the spinster aunt , with true spinster aunt like envy , to her brother , Mr. Wardle . 
'Oh ! I don't know , said the jolly old gentleman 'all very natural , I dare say nothing unusual . 
Mr. Pickwick , some wine , Sir ? Mr. Pickwick , who had been deeply investigating the interior of the pigeon pie , readily assented . 
'Emily , my dear , said the spinster aunt , with a patronising air , 'don't talk so loud , love . 
'Lor , aunt ! 'Aunt and the little old gentleman want to have it all to themselves , I think , whispered Miss Isabella Wardle to her sister Emily . 
The young ladies laughed very heartily , and the old one tried to look amiable , but couldn't manage it . 
'Oh , they have , replied Mr. Tupman , not exactly making the sort of reply that was expected from him . 
'Hem ! said Miss Wardle , rather dubiously . 
'Will you permit me ? said Mr. Tupman , in his blandest manner , touching the enchanting Rachael's wrist with one hand , and gently elevating the bottle with the other . 
'Do you think my dear nieces pretty ? whispered their affectionate aunt to Mr. Tupman . 
'I should , if their aunt wasn't here , replied the ready Pickwickian , with a passionate glance . 
'Oh , you quiz I know what you were going to say . 
'What ? inquired Mr. Tupman , who had not precisely made up his mind to say anything at all . 
'You were going to say that Isabel stoops I know you were you men are such observers . 
Well , so she does it can't be denied and , certainly , if there is one thing more than another that makes a girl look ugly it is stooping . 
I often tell her that when she gets a little older she'll be quite frightful . 
Well , you are a quiz ! Mr. Tupman had no objection to earning the reputation at so cheap a rate so he looked very knowing , and smiled mysteriously . 
'What a sarcastic smile , said the admiring Rachael 'I declare I'm quite afraid of you . 
'Afraid of me ! 'Oh , you can't disguise anything from me I know what that smile means very well . 
'What ? said Mr. Tupman , who had not the slightest notion himself . 
'You mean , said the amiable aunt , sinking her voice still lower 'you mean , that you don't think Isabella's stooping is as bad as Emily's boldness . 
'I'm sure aunt's talking about us , whispered Miss Emily Wardle to her sister 'I'm quite certain of it she looks so malicious . 
'Is she ? replied Isabella . 
There is no guessing in what form of reply the aunt's indignation would have vented itself , had not Mr. Wardle unconsciously changed the subject , by calling emphatically for Joe . 
'Damn that boy , said the old gentleman , 'he's gone to sleep again . 
'Very extraordinary boy , that , said Mr. Pickwick 'does he always sleep in this way ? 'Sleep ! said the old gentleman , 'he's always asleep . 
Goes on errands fast asleep , and snores as he waits at table . 
'How very odd ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Most certainly , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'You have got the address ? 'Manor Farm , Dingley Dell , said Mr. Pickwick , consulting his pocket book . 
'That's it , said the old gentleman . 
'I don't let you off , mind , under a week and undertake that you shall see everything worth seeing . 
If you've come down for a country life , come to me , and I'll give you plenty of it . 
Joe damn that boy , he's gone to sleep again Joe , help Tom put in the horses . 
The horses were put in the driver mounted the fat boy clambered up by his side farewells were exchanged and the carriage rattled off . 
His head was sunk upon his bosom and he slumbered again . 
The scene was indeed one which might well have charmed a far less reflective mind , than that to which it was presented . 
On the left of the spectator lay the ruined wall , broken in many places , and in some , overhanging the narrow beach below in rude and heavy masses . 
Huge knots of seaweed hung upon the jagged and pointed stones , trembling in every breath of wind and the green ivy clung mournfully round the dark and ruined battlements . 
Mr. Pickwick was roused from the agreeable reverie into which he had been led by the objects before him , by a deep sigh , and a touch on his shoulder . 
He turned round and the dismal man was at his side . 
'Contemplating the scene ? inquired the dismal man . 
'I was , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'And congratulating yourself on being up so soon ? Mr. Pickwick nodded assent . 
'Ah ! people need to rise early , to see the sun in all his splendour , for his brightness seldom lasts the day through . 
The morning of day and the morning of life are but too much alike . 
'You speak truly , sir , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'How common the saying , continued the dismal man , The morning's too fine to last . 
How well might it be applied to our everyday existence . 
'I have , said the dismal man hurriedly 'I have . 
More than those who see me now would believe possible . 
'I have thought so , often , said the dismal man , without noticing the action . 
'The calm , cool water seems to me to murmur an invitation to repose and rest . 
The sunken eye of the dismal man flashed brightly as he spoke , but the momentary excitement quickly subsided and he turned calmly away , as he said 'There enough of that . 
I wish to see you on another subject . 
You invited me to read that paper , the night before last , and listened attentively while I did so . 
'I did , replied Mr. Pickwick 'and I certainly thought 'I asked for no opinion , said the dismal man , interrupting him , 'and I want none . 
You are travelling for amusement and instruction . 
'You shall have it , replied the dismal man . 
Mr. Pickwick found that his three companions had risen , and were waiting his arrival to commence breakfast , which was ready laid in tempting display . 
'Now , about Manor Farm , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'How shall we go ? 'We had better consult the waiter , perhaps , said Mr. Tupman and the waiter was summoned accordingly . 
'Dingley Dell , gentlemen fifteen miles , gentlemen cross road post chaise , sir ? 'Post chaise won't hold more than two , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'True , sir beg your pardon , sir . 
Very nice four wheel chaise , sir seat for two behind one in front for the gentleman that drives oh ! beg your pardon , sir that'll only hold three . 
'What's to be done ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'The very thing , said Mr. Pickwick . 
I should enjoy it of all things . 
Mr. Winkle had rushed upon his fate there was no resource . 
'Let them be at the door by eleven , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Very well , sir , replied the waiter . 
The waiter retired the breakfast concluded and the travellers ascended to their respective bedrooms , to prepare a change of clothing , to take with them on their approaching expedition . 
An hostler stood near , holding by the bridle another immense horse apparently a near relative of the animal in the chaise ready saddled for Mr. Winkle . 
'Bless my soul ! said Mr. Pickwick , as they stood upon the pavement while the coats were being put in . 
'Bless my soul ! who's to drive ? I never thought of that . 
'Oh ! you , of course , said Mr. Tupman . 
'Of course , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'I ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Not the slightest fear , Sir , interposed the hostler . 
'Warrant him quiet , Sir a hinfant in arms might drive him . 
'He don't shy , does he ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Shy , sir ? he wouldn't shy if he was to meet a vagin load of monkeys with their tails burned off . 
The last recommendation was indisputable . 
Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass got into the bin Mr. Pickwick ascended to his perch , and deposited his feet on a floor clothed shelf , erected beneath it for that purpose . 
'Now , shiny Villiam , said the hostler to the deputy hostler , 'give the gen'lm'n the ribbons . 
'Shiny Villiam' so called , probably , from his sleek hair and oily countenance placed the reins in Mr. Pickwick's left hand and the upper hostler thrust a whip into his right . 
'Wo o ! cried Mr. Pickwick , as the tall quadruped evinced a decided inclination to back into the coffee room window . 
'Wo o ! echoed Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass , from the bin . 
'Only his playfulness , gen'lm'n , said the head hostler encouragingly 'jist kitch hold on him , Villiam . 
The deputy restrained the animal's impetuosity , and the principal ran to assist Mr. Winkle in mounting . 
'T'other side , sir , if you please . 
'Blowed if the gen'lm'n worn't a gettin' up on the wrong side , whispered a grinning post boy to the inexpressibly gratified waiter . 
Mr. Winkle , thus instructed , climbed into his saddle , with about as much difficulty as he would have experienced in getting up the side of a first rate man of war . 
'All right ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , with an inward presentiment that it was all wrong . 
'All right , replied Mr. Winkle faintly . 
'Let 'em go , cried the hostler . 
'What makes him go sideways ? said Mr. Snodgrass in the bin , to Mr. Winkle in the saddle . 
'I can't imagine , replied Mr. Winkle . 
His horse was drifting up the street in the most mysterious manner side first , with his head towards one side of the way , and his tail towards the other . 
'What CAN he mean by this ? said Mr. Snodgrass , when the horse had executed this manoeuvre for the twentieth time . 
'I don't know , replied Mr. Tupman 'it looks very like shying , don't it ? Mr. Snodgrass was about to reply , when he was interrupted by a shout from Mr. Pickwick . 
'Woo ! said that gentleman 'I have dropped my whip . 
'Poor fellow , said Mr. Winkle soothingly 'poor fellow good old horse . 
'What am I to do ? shouted Mr. Winkle , after the dodging had been prolonged for a considerable time . 
'What am I to do ? I can't get on him . 
'You had better lead him till we come to a turnpike , replied Mr. Pickwick from the chaise . 
'But he won't come ! roared Mr. Winkle . 
'Do come and hold him . 
Mr. Pickwick ran to his assistance , but the faster Mr. Pickwick ran forward , the faster the horse ran backward . 
A rattling noise at a little distance attracted their attention . 
'Bless my soul ! exclaimed the agonised Mr. Pickwick 'there's the other horse running away ! It was but too true . 
The animal was startled by the noise , and the reins were on his back . 
The results may be guessed . 
He tore off with the four wheeled chaise behind him , and Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass in the four wheeled chaise . 
The heat was a short one . 
The next thing to be done was to unharness the horse . 
This complicated process having been effected , the party walked slowly forward , leading the horse among them , and abandoning the chaise to its fate . 
'Hollo there ! repeated Mr. Pickwick . 
'Hollo ! was the red headed man's reply . 
'How far is it to Dingley Dell ? 'Better er seven mile . 
'Is it a good road ? 'No , 'tain't . 
Having uttered this brief reply , and apparently satisfied himself with another scrutiny , the red headed man resumed his work . 
'Of course , replied Mr. Pickwick , who had by this time advanced , horse in hand , to the garden rails . 
'Can we put this horse up here , my good woman ? said Mr. Tupman , advancing , and speaking in his most seductive tones . 
The woman looked very hard at the whole party and the red headed man whispered something in her ear . 
'No , replied the woman , after a little consideration , 'I'm afeerd on it . 
'Most extraordinary thing I have ever met with in my life , said the astonished Mr. Pickwick . 
'I I really believe , whispered Mr. Winkle , as his friends gathered round him , 'that they think we have come by this horse in some dishonest manner . 
'What ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , in a storm of indignation . 
Mr. Winkle modestly repeated his suggestion . 
Saying which he turned into the house and banged the door after him . 
'It's like a dream , ejaculated Mr. Pickwick , 'a hideous dream . 
Torn clothes , lacerated faces , dusty shoes , exhausted looks , and , above all , the horse . 
He was roused from a meditation on these dire imaginings by the sudden appearance of two figures at a turn of the lane . 
It was Mr. Wardle , and his faithful attendant , the fat boy . 
'Why , where have you been ? said the hospitable old gentleman 'I've been waiting for you all day . 
Well , you DO look tired . 
What ! Scratches ! Not hurt , I hope eh ? Well , I AM glad to hear that very . 
So you've been spilt , eh ? Never mind . 
Common accident in these parts . 
Joe he's asleep again ! Joe , take that horse from the gentlemen , and lead it into the stable . 
'We'll have you put to rights here , said the old gentleman , 'and then I'll introduce you to the people in the parlour . 
Emma , bring out the cherry brandy now , Jane , a needle and thread here towels and water , Mary . 
Come , girls , bustle about . 
, and dived into some obscure recesses , from which they speedily produced a bottle of blacking , and some half dozen brushes . 
Mr. Snodgrass , having concluded his ablutions , took a survey of the room , while standing with his back to the fire , sipping his cherry brandy with heartfelt satisfaction . 
He describes it as a large apartment , with a red brick floor and a capacious chimney the ceiling garnished with hams , sides of bacon , and ropes of onions . 
'Ready ? said the old gentleman inquiringly , when his guests had been washed , mended , brushed , and brandied . 
'Quite , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Welcome , said their hospitable host , throwing it open and stepping forward to announce them , 'welcome , gentlemen , to Manor Farm . 
Pickwick , mother , said Mr. Wardle , at the very top of his voice . 
'Ah ! said the old lady , shaking her head 'I can't hear you . 
Pickwick , grandma ! screamed both the young ladies together . 
'Ah ! exclaimed the old lady . 
'Well , it don't much matter . 
He don't care for an old 'ooman like me , I dare say . 
'Ah ! said the old lady , after a short pause 'it's all very fine , I dare say but I can't hear him . 
'Grandma's rather put out now , said Miss Isabella Wardle , in a low tone 'but she'll talk to you presently . 
Mr. Pickwick nodded his readiness to humour the infirmities of age , and entered into a general conversation with the other members of the circle . 
'Delightful situation this , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Snodgrass , Tupman , and Winkle . 
'Well , I think it is , said Mr. Wardle . 
'There ain't a better spot o' ground in all Kent , sir , said the hard headed man with the pippin face 'there ain't indeed , sir I'm sure there ain't , Sir . 
The hard headed man looked triumphantly round , as if he had been very much contradicted by somebody , but had got the better of him at last . 
'There ain't a better spot o' ground in all Kent , said the hard headed man again , after a pause . 
''Cept Mullins's Meadows , observed the fat man solemnly . 
'Mullins's Meadows ! ejaculated the other , with profound contempt . 
'Ah , Mullins's Meadows , repeated the fat man . 
'Reg'lar good land that , interposed another fat man . 
'And so it is , sure ly , said a third fat man . 
'Everybody knows that , said the corpulent host . 
The hard headed man looked dubiously round , but finding himself in a minority , assumed a compassionate air and said no more . 
'About the land , grandma . 
'What about the land ? Nothing the matter , is there ? 'No , no . 
Mr. Miller was saying our land was better than Mullins's Meadows . 
'How should he know anything about it ? 'inquired the old lady indignantly . 
'Miller's a conceited coxcomb , and you may tell him I said so . 
Saying which , the old lady , quite unconscious that she had spoken above a whisper , drew herself up , and looked carving knives at the hard headed delinquent . 
'Joe , Joe ! said the gentleman 'Joe damn that oh , here he is put out the card tables . 
The lethargic youth contrived without any additional rousing to set out two card tables the one for Pope Joan , and the other for whist . 
The whist players were Mr. Pickwick and the old lady , Mr. Miller and the fat gentleman . 
The round game comprised the rest of the company . 
'Ought I , though ? said the unfortunate , with a doubtful appeal to his partner . 
'You ought , Sir , said the fat gentleman , in an awful voice . 
'Very sorry , said the crestfallen Miller . 
'Much use that , growled the fat gentleman . 
'Two by honours makes us eight , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Can you one ? inquired the old lady . 
'I can , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Double , single , and the rub . 
'Never was such luck , said Mr. Miller . 
'Never was such cards , said the fat gentleman . 
A solemn silence Mr. Pickwick humorous , the old lady serious , the fat gentleman captious , and Mr. Miller timorous . 
'Another double , said the old lady , triumphantly making a memorandum of the circumstance , by placing one sixpence and a battered halfpenny under the candlestick . 
'A double , sir , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Quite aware of the fact , Sir , replied the fat gentleman sharply . 
The old lady's hearing decidedly improved and the unlucky Miller felt as much out of his element as a dolphin in a sentry box . 
Meanwhile the round game proceeded right merrily . 
Mr. Snodgrass , have you anything in your glass ? 'Plenty , thank you , replied that gentleman , whose poetic curiosity had been greatly excited by the last observation of his entertainer . 
'I beg your pardon , but you were talking about the song of the Ivy . 
'You must ask our friend opposite about that , said the host knowingly , indicating the clergyman by a nod of his head . 
'May I say that I should like to hear you repeat it , sir ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
Such as it is , however , you shall hear it , if you wish . 
A murmur of curiosity was of course the reply and the old gentleman proceeded to recite , with the aid of sundry promptings from his wife , the lines in question . 
The wall must be crumbled , the stone decayed , To pleasure his dainty whim And the mouldering dust that years have made , Is a merry meal for him . 
Creeping where no life is seen , A rare old plant is the Ivy green . 
Fast he stealeth on , though he wears no wings , And a staunch old heart has he . 
Creeping where grim death has been , A rare old plant is the Ivy green . 
Whole ages have fled and their works decayed , And nations have scattered been But the stout old Ivy shall never fade , From its hale and hearty green . 
The brave old plant in its lonely days , Shall fatten upon the past For the stateliest building man can raise , Is the Ivy's food at last . 
Creeping on where time has been , A rare old plant is the Ivy green . 
'I have witnessed some certainly , replied the old gentleman , 'but the incidents and characters have been of a homely and ordinary nature , my sphere of action being so very limited . 
'You are fairly in for it , said the jolly host . 
'You must satisfy the curiosity of these gentlemen , sooner or later so you had better take advantage of this favourable opportunity , and do so at once . 
He was a morose , savage hearted , bad man idle and dissolute in his habits cruel and ferocious in his disposition . 
'This man had a wife and one son , who , when I first came here , was about twelve years old . 
These exertions were but ill repaid . 
'Five or six years passed away the boy had become a robust and well grown youth . 
She occupied her old seat , but there was a vacant one beside her . 
Neighbours were as kind as they were wont to be of old , but she shunned their greetings with averted head . 
There was no lingering among the old elm trees now no cheering anticipations of happiness yet in store . 
The desolate woman drew her bonnet closer over her face , and walked hurriedly away . 
'The measure of the unhappy woman's misery and misfortune was about to be completed . 
Numerous offences had been committed in the neighbourhood the perpetrators remained undiscovered , and their boldness increased . 
A robbery of a daring and aggravated nature occasioned a vigilance of pursuit , and a strictness of search , they had not calculated on . 
Young Edmunds was suspected , with three companions . 
He was apprehended committed tried condemned to die . 
'The wild and piercing shriek from a woman's voice , which resounded through the court when the solemn sentence was pronounced , rings in my ears at this moment . 
That cry struck a terror to the culprit's heart , which trial , condemnation the approach of death itself , had failed to awaken . 
A burst of grief , and a violent struggle , such as I hope I may never have to witness again , succeeded . 
I knew that her heart was breaking from that hour but I never once heard complaint or murmur escape her lips . 
He remained moody , obstinate , and unmoved . 
Not even the unlooked for commutation of his sentence to transportation for fourteen years , softened for an instant the sullen hardihood of his demeanour . 
'But the spirit of resignation and endurance that had so long upheld her , was unable to contend against bodily weakness and infirmity . 
She dragged her tottering limbs from the bed to visit her son once more , but her strength failed her , and she sank powerless on the ground . 
'And now the boasted coldness and indifference of the young man were tested indeed and the retribution that fell heavily upon him nearly drove him mad . 
'I bore the mother's forgiveness and blessing to her son in prison and I carried the solemn assurance of repentance , and his fervent supplication for pardon , to her sick bed . 
'He was removed by night . 
A few weeks afterwards the poor woman's soul took its flight , I confidently hope , and solemnly believe , to a place of eternal happiness and rest . 
I performed the burial service over her remains . 
She lies in our little churchyard . 
There is no stone at her grave's head . 
Her sorrows were known to man her virtues to God . 
The father had positively refused to see his son from the moment of his apprehension and it was a matter of indifference to him whether he lived or died . 
He remained in the same place during the whole fourteen years . 
'On a fine Sunday evening , in the month of August , John Edmunds set foot in the village he had left with shame and disgrace seventeen years before . 
His nearest way lay through the churchyard . 
The man's heart swelled as he crossed the stile . 
The tall old elms , through whose branches the declining sun cast here and there a rich ray of light upon the shady part , awakened the associations of his earliest days . 
He pictured himself as he was then , clinging to his mother's hand , and walking peacefully to church . 
The evening service was concluded and the congregation had dispersed , but it was not yet closed . 
His steps echoed through the low building with a hollow sound , and he almost feared to be alone , it was so still and quiet . 
He approached the old seat it looked cold and desolate . 
The cushion had been removed , and the Bible was not there . 
Perhaps his mother now occupied a poorer seat , or possibly she had grown infirm and could not reach the church alone . 
He dared not think of what he feared . 
A cold feeling crept over him , and he trembled violently as he turned away . 
'An old man entered the porch just as he reached it . 
Edmunds started back , for he knew him well many a time he had watched him digging graves in the churchyard . 
What would he say to the returned convict ? 'The old man raised his eyes to the stranger's face , bade him good evening , and walked slowly on . 
'He walked down the hill , and through the village . 
Many a look was turned towards him , and many a doubtful glance he cast on either side to see whether any knew and shunned him . 
The paling was low , though he well remembered the time that it had seemed a high wall to him and he looked over into the old garden . 
There were voices within the house . 
He listened , but they fell strangely upon his ear he knew them not . 
They were merry too and he well knew that his poor old mother could not be cheerful , and he away . 
The door opened , and a group of little children bounded out , shouting and romping . 
The convict thought on the many times he had shrunk from his father's sight in that very place . 
The sad reality struck coldly at his heart , and his spirit sank within him . 
He had not courage to make inquiries , or to present himself to the only person who was likely to receive him with kindness and compassion . 
He walked slowly on and shunning the roadside like a guilty man , turned into a meadow he well remembered and covering his face with his hands , threw himself upon the grass . 
'The man had moved into a sitting posture . 
His body was much bent , and his face was wrinkled and yellow . 
Edmunds gradually raised himself to his knees , and looked more and more earnestly on the old man's face . 
They gazed upon each other in silence . 
'The old man was ghastly pale . 
He shuddered and tottered to his feet . 
He stepped back a pace or two . 
Let me hear you speak , said the convict , in a thick , broken voice . 
Stand off ! cried the old man , with a dreadful oath . 
The convict drew closer to him . 
Stand off ! shrieked the old man . 
Furious with terror , he raised his stick , and struck Edmunds a heavy blow across the face . 
Father devil ! murmured the convict between his set teeth . 
He rushed wildly forward , and clenched the old man by the throat but he was his father and his arm fell powerless by his side . 
'The old man uttered a loud yell which rang through the lonely fields like the howl of an evil spirit . 
His face turned black , the gore rushed from his mouth and nose , and dyed the grass a deep , dark red , as he staggered and fell . 
He had ruptured a blood vessel , and he was a dead man before his son could raise him . 
No one save myself knew in that man's lifetime who he was , or whence he came it was John Edmunds , the returned convict . 
Mr. Pickwick was no sluggard , and he sprang like an ardent warrior from his tent bedstead . 
'Pleasant , pleasant country , sighed the enthusiastic gentleman , as he opened his lattice window . 
Mr. Pickwick fell into an enchanting and delicious reverie . 
'Hollo ! was the sound that roused him . 
'How are you ? said the good humoured individual , out of breath with his own anticipations of pleasure . 
'Beautiful morning , ain't it ? Glad to see you up so early . 
Make haste down , and come out . 
I'll wait for you here . 
Mr. Pickwick needed no second invitation . 
Ten minutes sufficed for the completion of his toilet , and at the expiration of that time he was by the old gentleman's side . 
He's a very good shot , ain't he ? 'I've heard him say he's a capital one , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'but I never saw him aim at anything . 
'Well , said the host , 'I wish he'd come . 
Joe Joe ! The fat boy , who under the exciting influence of the morning did not appear to be more than three parts and a fraction asleep , emerged from the house . 
'Go up , and call the gentleman , and tell him he'll find me and Mr. Pickwick in the rookery . 
'This is the place , said the old gentleman , pausing after a few minutes walking , in an avenue of trees . 
The information was unnecessary for the incessant cawing of the unconscious rooks sufficiently indicated their whereabouts . 
The old gentleman laid one gun on the ground , and loaded the other . 
'Here they are , said Mr. Pickwick and , as he spoke , the forms of Mr. Tupman , Mr. Snodgrass , and Mr. Winkle appeared in the distance . 
The fat boy , not being quite certain which gentleman he was directed to call , had with peculiar sagacity , and to prevent the possibility of any mistake , called them all . 
'Come along , shouted the old gentleman , addressing Mr. Winkle 'a keen hand like you ought to have been up long ago , even to such poor work as this . 
It might have been keenness , but it looked remarkably like misery . 
The old gentleman nodded and two ragged boys who had been marshalled to the spot under the direction of the infant Lambert , forthwith commenced climbing up two of the trees . 
'What are these lads for ? inquired Mr. Pickwick abruptly . 
'Only to start the game , replied Mr. Wardle , laughing . 
'To what ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , in plain English , to frighten the rooks . 
'Oh , is that all ? 'You are satisfied ? 'Quite . 
Shall I begin ? 'If you please , said Mr. Winkle , glad of any respite . 
The boy shouted , and shook a branch with a nest on it . 
Half a dozen young rooks in violent conversation , flew out to ask what the matter was . 
The old gentleman fired by way of reply . 
Down fell one bird , and off flew the others . 
'Take him up , Joe , said the old gentleman . 
There was a smile upon the youth's face as he advanced . 
Indistinct visions of rook pie floated through his imagination . 
He laughed as he retired with the bird it was a plump one . 
'Now , Mr. Winkle , said the host , reloading his own gun . 
Mr. Winkle advanced , and levelled his gun . 
Mr. Pickwick and his friends cowered involuntarily to escape damage from the heavy fall of rooks , which they felt quite certain would be occasioned by the devastating barrel of their friend . 
There was a solemn pause a shout a flapping of wings a faint click . 
'Hollo ! said the old gentleman . 
'Won't it go ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Missed fire , said Mr. Winkle , who was very pale probably from disappointment . 
'Odd , said the old gentleman , taking the gun . 
'Never knew one of them miss fire before . 
Why , I don't see anything of the cap . 
'Bless my soul ! said Mr. Winkle , 'I declare I forgot the cap ! The slight omission was rectified . 
Mr. Winkle stepped forward with an air of determination and resolution and Mr. Tupman looked out from behind a tree . 
The boy shouted four birds flew out . 
There was a scream as of an individual not a rook in corporal anguish . 
Mr. Tupman had saved the lives of innumerable unoffending birds by receiving a portion of the charge in his left arm . 
To describe the confusion that ensued would be impossible . 
They drew near the house . 
The ladies were at the garden gate , waiting for their arrival and their breakfast . 
The spinster aunt appeared she smiled , and beckoned them to walk quicker . 
'Twas evident she knew not of the disaster . 
Poor thing ! there are times when ignorance is bliss indeed . 
'Why , what is the matter with the little old gentleman ? said Isabella Wardle . 
The spinster aunt heeded not the remark she thought it applied to Mr. Pickwick . 
In her eyes Tracy Tupman was a youth she viewed his years through a diminishing glass . 
'Don't be frightened , called out the old host , fearful of alarming his daughters . 
The little party had crowded so completely round Mr. Tupman , that they could not yet clearly discern the nature of the accident . 
'Don't be frightened , said the host . 
'What's the matter ? screamed the ladies . 
Tupman has met with a little accident that's all . 
The spinster aunt uttered a piercing scream , burst into an hysteric laugh , and fell backwards in the arms of her nieces . 
'Throw some cold water over her , said the old gentleman . 
'No , no , murmured the spinster aunt 'I am better now . 
'Calm yourself , said Mr. Tupman , affected almost to tears by this expression of sympathy with his sufferings . 
'Dear , dear madam , calm yourself . 
'It is his voice ! exclaimed the spinster aunt and strong symptoms of fit number three developed themselves forthwith . 
'Do not agitate yourself , I entreat you , dearest madam , said Mr. Tupman soothingly . 
'I am very little hurt , I assure you . 
'Then you are not dead ! ejaculated the hysterical lady . 
'Oh , say you are not dead ! 'Don't be a fool , Rachael , interposed Mr. Wardle , rather more roughly than was consistent with the poetic nature of the scene . 
'What the devil's the use of his saying he isn't dead ? 'No , no , I am not , said Mr. Tupman . 
'I require no assistance but yours . 
Let me lean on your arm . 
He added , in a whisper , 'Oh , Miss Rachael ! The agitated female advanced , and offered her arm . 
They turned into the breakfast parlour . 
Mr. Tracy Tupman gently pressed her hand to his lips , and sank upon the sofa . 
'Are you faint ? inquired the anxious Rachael . 
'No , said Mr. Tupman . 
I shall be better presently . 
'He sleeps , murmured the spinster aunt . 
'Dear dear Mr. Tupman ! Mr. Tupman jumped up 'Oh , say those words again ! he exclaimed . 
'Surely you did not hear them ! she said bashfully . 
'Oh , yes , I did ! replied Mr. Tupman 'repeat them . 
If you would have me recover , repeat them . 
'Hush ! said the lady . 
Mr. Tracy Tupman resumed his former position and Mr. Wardle , accompanied by a surgeon , entered the room . 
Mr. Pickwick alone was silent and reserved . 
Doubt and distrust were exhibited in his countenance . 
His confidence in Mr. Winkle had been shaken greatly shaken by the proceedings of the morning . 
'Are you a cricketer ? inquired Mr. Wardle of the marksman . 
At any other time , Mr. Winkle would have replied in the affirmative . 
He felt the delicacy of his situation , and modestly replied , 'No . 
'Are you , sir ? inquired Mr. Snodgrass . 
'I was once upon a time , replied the host 'but I have given it up now . 
I subscribe to the club here , but I don't play . 
'The grand match is played to day , I believe , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'It is , replied the host . 
'Of course you would like to see it . 
Mr. Pickwick paused , and looked steadily on Mr. Winkle , who quailed beneath his leader's searching glance . 
'Quite impossible , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
Mr. Pickwick stood in the principal street of this illustrious town , and gazed with an air of curiosity , not unmixed with interest , on the objects around him . 
The wickets were pitched , and so were a couple of marquees for the rest and refreshment of the contending parties . 
The game had not yet commenced . 
'You'll find it much pleasanter , Sir , urged another stout gentleman , who strongly resembled the other half of the roll of flannel aforesaid . 
'You're very good , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'This way , said the first speaker 'they notch in here it's the best place in the whole field and the cricketer , panting on before , preceded them to the tent . 
His dress was slightly improved , and he wore boots but there was no mistaking him . 
'This way this way capital fun lots of beer hogsheads rounds of beef bullocks mustard cart loads glorious day down with you make yourself at home glad to see you very . 
Mr. Pickwick sat down as he was bid , and Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass also complied with the directions of their mysterious friend . 
Mr. Wardle looked on in silent wonder . 
Wardle a friend of mine , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well and how came you here ? said Mr. Pickwick , with a smile in which benevolence struggled with surprise . 
'Come , replied the stranger 'stopping at Crown Crown at Muggleton met a party flannel jackets white trousers anchovy sandwiches devilled kidney splendid fellows glorious . 
His curiosity was therefore satisfied , and putting on his spectacles he prepared himself to watch the play which was just commencing . 
All the regular players do this sort of thing indeed it is generally supposed that it is quite impossible to look out properly in any other position . 
The umpires were stationed behind the wickets the scorers were prepared to notch the runs a breathless silence ensued . 
Mr. Luffey retired a few paces behind the wicket of the passive Podder , and applied the ball to his right eye for several seconds . 
Dumkins confidently awaited its coming with his eyes fixed on the motions of Luffey . 
'Play ! suddenly cried the bowler . 
The ball flew from his hand straight and swift towards the centre stump of the wicket . 
Nor was Podder behindhand in earning laurels wherewith to garnish himself and Muggleton . 
He blocked the doubtful balls , missed the bad ones , took the good ones , and sent them flying to all parts of the field . 
The scouts were hot and tired the bowlers were changed and bowled till their arms ached but Dumkins and Podder remained unconquered . 
Did an elderly gentleman essay to stop the progress of the ball , it rolled between his legs or slipped between his fingers . 
Was it thrown straight up to the wicket , Dumkins had reached it before the ball . 
The advantage was too great to be recovered . 
The stranger , meanwhile , had been eating , drinking , and talking , without cessation . 
'Capital game well played some strokes admirable , said the stranger , as both sides crowded into the tent , at the conclusion of the game . 
'You have played it , sir ? inquired Mr. Wardle , who had been much amused by his loquacity . 
'Played it ! Think I have thousands of times not here West Indies exciting thing hot work very . 
'It must be rather a warm pursuit in such a climate , observed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Warm ! red hot scorching glowing . 
Played a match once single wicket friend the colonel Sir Thomas Blazo who should get the greatest number of runs . 
Won the toss first innings seven o'clock A. m . 
'And what became of what's his name , Sir ? inquired an old gentleman . 
'Blazo ? 'No the other gentleman . 
'Quanko Samba ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Poor Quanko never recovered it bowled on , on my account bowled off , on his own died , sir . 
Here the stranger buried his countenance in a brown jug , but whether to hide his emotion or imbibe its contents , we cannot distinctly affirm . 
'Of course , said Mr. Wardle , 'among our friends we include Mr. and he looked towards the stranger . 
'Jingle , said that versatile gentleman , taking the hint at once . 
'Jingle Alfred Jingle , Esq . 
, of No Hall , Nowhere . 
'I shall be very happy , I am sure , said Mr. Pickwick . 
At length , during a moment of comparative silence , the little man called out in a very loud , solemn voice , 'Mr . 
Sir , I am a Deller a Dingley Deller . 
to Muggleton I will readily concede all these honours and distinctions to which it can fairly lay claim they are too numerous and too well known to require aid or recapitulation from me . 
But , sir , while we remember that Muggleton has given birth to a Dumkins and a Podder , let us never forget that Dingley Dell can boast a Luffey and a Struggles . 
Let me not be considered as wishing to detract from the merits of the former gentlemen . 
Sir , I envy them the luxury of their own feelings on this occasion . 
I can well imagine these gentlemen to say , If I were not Dumkins I would be Luffey if I were not Podder I would be Struggles . 
Gentlemen , I beg to surround with a rich halo of enthusiastic cheering the united names of Dumkins and Podder . 
Here the little man ceased , and here the company commenced a raising of voices , and thumping of tables , which lasted with little intermission during the remainder of the evening . 
, in which the words 'bowl' 'sparkling' 'ruby' 'bright' and 'wine' are frequently repeated at short intervals . 
That there was something kindred in their nature , something congenial in their souls , something mysteriously sympathetic in their bosoms , was evident . 
'I have forgotten my flowers , said the spinster aunt . 
'Water them now , said Mr. Tupman , in accents of persuasion . 
'You will take cold in the evening air , urged the spinster aunt affectionately . 
'No , no , said Mr. Tupman , rising 'it will do me good . 
The lady paused to adjust the sling in which the left arm of the youth was placed , and taking his right arm led him to the garden . 
There was a bower at the farther end , with honeysuckle , jessamine , and creeping plants one of those sweet retreats which humane men erect for the accommodation of spiders . 
The spinster aunt took up a large watering pot which lay in one corner , and was about to leave the arbour . 
Mr. Tupman detained her , and drew her to a seat beside him . 
'Miss Wardle ! said he . 
The spinster aunt trembled , till some pebbles which had accidentally found their way into the large watering pot shook like an infant's rattle . 
'Miss Wardle , said Mr. Tupman , 'you are an angel . 
Tupman ! exclaimed Rachael , blushing as red as the watering pot itself . 
'Nay , said the eloquent Pickwickian 'I know it but too well . 
'All women are angels , they say , murmured the lady playfully . 
'Then what can you be or to what , without presumption , can I compare you ? replied Mr. Tupman . 
The lady turned aside her head . 
'Men are such deceivers , she softly whispered . 
'They are , they are , ejaculated Mr. Tupman 'but not all men . 
'Could such an individual be found said the lady . 
'But he CAN be found , said the ardent Mr. Tupman , interposing . 
He is here , Miss Wardle . 
And ere the lady was aware of his intention , Mr. Tupman had sunk upon his knees at her feet . 
Tupman , rise , said Rachael . 
'Never ! was the valorous reply . 
'Oh , Rachael ! He seized her passive hand , and the watering pot fell to the ground as he pressed it to his lips . 
'Oh , Rachael ! say you love me . 
Tupman , said the spinster aunt , with averted head , 'I can hardly speak the words but but you are not wholly indifferent to me . 
, people so circumstanced always do . 
Tupman , we are observed ! we are discovered ! Mr. Tupman looked round . 
Under this impression , he said with great firmness 'What do you want here , Sir ? 'Supper's ready , sir , was the prompt reply . 
'Have you just come here , sir ? inquired Mr. Tupman , with a piercing look . 
'Just , replied the fat boy . 
Mr. Tupman looked at him very hard again but there was not a wink in his eye , or a curve in his face . 
Mr. Tupman took the arm of the spinster aunt , and walked towards the house the fat boy followed behind . 
'He knows nothing of what has happened , 'he whispered . 
'Nothing , said the spinster aunt . 
There was a sound behind them , as of an imperfectly suppressed chuckle . 
Mr. Tupman turned sharply round . 
No it could not have been the fat boy there was not a gleam of mirth , or anything but feeding in his whole visage . 
'He must have been fast asleep , whispered Mr. Tupman . 
'I have not the least doubt of it , replied the spinster aunt . 
Mr , Tupman was wrong . 
The fat boy , for once , had not been fast asleep . 
He was awake wide awake to what had been going forward . 
The supper passed off without any attempt at a general conversation . 
Eleven twelve one o'clock had struck , and the gentlemen had not arrived . 
Consternation sat on every face . 
'is anything the matter ? inquired the three ladies . 
'Nothing the matter , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
I say , Wardle , we're all right , ain't we ? 'I should think so , replied the jolly host . 
'My dears , here's my friend Mr. Jingle Mr. Pickwick's friend , Mr. Jingle , come 'pon little visit . 
'Is anything the matter with Mr. Snodgrass , Sir ? inquired Emily , with great anxiety . 
'Nothing the matter , ma'am , replied the stranger . 
'Cricket dinner glorious party capital songs old port claret good very good wine , ma'am wine . 
'It wasn't the wine , murmured Mr. Snodgrass , in a broken voice . 
'Hadn't they better go to bed , ma'am ? inquired Emma . 
'Two of the boys will carry the gentlemen upstairs . 
'I won't go to bed , said Mr. Winkle firmly . 
'No living boy shall carry me , said Mr. Pickwick stoutly and he went on smiling as before . 
'Hurrah ! gasped Mr. Winkle faintly . 
'Hurrah ! echoed Mr. Pickwick , taking off his hat and dashing it on the floor , and insanely casting his spectacles into the middle of the kitchen . 
At this humorous feat he laughed outright . 
'Let's have 'nother bottle , 'cried Mr. Winkle , commencing in a very loud key , and ending in a very faint one . 
'What a shocking scene ! said the spinster aunt . 
'Dis gusting ! ejaculated both the young ladies . 
'Dreadful dreadful ! said Jingle , looking very grave he was about a bottle and a half ahead of any of his companions . 
'Horrid spectacle very ! 'What a nice man ! whispered the spinster aunt to Mr. Tupman . 
'Good looking , too ! whispered Emily Wardle . 
'Oh , decidedly , observed the spinster aunt . 
Mr. Tupman thought of the widow at Rochester , and his mind was troubled . 
The succeeding half hour's conversation was not of a nature to calm his perturbed spirit . 
The new visitor was very talkative , and the number of his anecdotes was only to be exceeded by the extent of his politeness . 
retired further into the shade . 
'was an impudent young fellow a sentiment in which all her relations then and there present thoroughly coincided . 
He too heard the shouts of 'Missus , and stopped to hear more . 
There were three reasons for his doing so . 
In the first place , he was idle and curious secondly , he was by no means scrupulous thirdly , and lastly , he was concealed from view by some flowering shrubs . 
So there he stood , and there he listened . 
'Missus ! shouted the fat boy . 
'Well , Joe , said the trembling old lady . 
'I'm sure I have been a good mistress to you , Joe . 
You have invariably been treated very kindly . 
You have never had too much to do and you have always had enough to eat . 
This last was an appeal to the fat boy's most sensitive feelings . 
He seemed touched , as he replied emphatically 'I knows I has . 
'Then what can you want to do now ? said the old lady , gaining courage . 
'I wants to make your flesh creep , replied the boy . 
'What do you think I see in this very arbour last night ? inquired the boy . 
'Bless us ! What ? exclaimed the old lady , alarmed at the solemn manner of the corpulent youth . 
'The strange gentleman him as had his arm hurt a kissin' and huggin' 'Who , Joe ? None of the servants , I hope . 
'Worser than that , roared the fat boy , in the old lady's ear . 
'Not one of my grandda'aters ? 'Worser than that . 
'Worse than that , Joe ! said the old lady , who had thought this the extreme limit of human atrocity . 
'Who was it , Joe ? I insist upon knowing . 
The fat boy looked cautiously round , and having concluded his survey , shouted in the old lady's ear 'Miss Rachael . 
'What ! said the old lady , in a shrill tone . 
'Miss Rachael , roared the fat boy . 
'My da'ater ! The train of nods which the fat boy gave by way of assent , communicated a blanc mange like motion to his fat cheeks . 
'And she suffered him ! exclaimed the old lady . 
A grin stole over the fat boy's features as he said 'I see her a kissin' of him agin . 
Fielding tells us that man is fire , and woman tow , and the Prince of Darkness sets a light to 'em . 
Mr. Jingle knew that young men , to spinster aunts , are as lighted gas to gunpowder , and he determined to essay the effect of an explosion without loss of time . 
Full of reflections upon this important decision , he crept from his place of concealment , and , under cover of the shrubs before mentioned , approached the house . 
Fortune seemed determined to favour his design . 
The breakfast parlour door was partially open . 
The spinster aunt was knitting . 
He coughed she looked up and smiled . 
Hesitation formed no part of Mr. Alfred Jingle's character . 
He laid his finger on his lips mysteriously , walked in , and closed the door . 
'Miss Wardle , said Mr. Jingle , with affected earnestness , 'forgive intrusion short acquaintance no time for ceremony all discovered . 
'Sir ! said the spinster aunt , rather astonished by the unexpected apparition and somewhat doubtful of Mr. Jingle's sanity . 
'Hush ! said Mr. Jingle , in a stage whisper 'Large boy dumpling face round eyes rascal ! Here he shook his head expressively , and the spinster aunt trembled with agitation . 
'I presume you allude to Joseph , Sir ? said the lady , making an effort to appear composed . 
Never mind think it an insult leave the room' and he turned , as if to carry the threat into execution . 
'What SHALL I do ! said the poor spinster , bursting into tears . 
'My brother will be furious . 
'Of course he will , said Mr. Jingle pausing 'outrageous . 
'Oh , Mr. Jingle , what CAN I say ! exclaimed the spinster aunt , in another flood of despair . 
'Say he dreamt it , replied Mr. Jingle coolly . 
A ray of comfort darted across the mind of the spinster aunt at this suggestion . 
Mr. Jingle perceived it , and followed up his advantage . 
'Pooh , pooh ! nothing more easy blackguard boy lovely woman fat boy horsewhipped you believed end of the matter all comfortable . 
She blushed slightly , and cast a grateful look on Mr. Jingle . 
That insinuating gentleman sighed deeply , fixed his eyes on the spinster aunt's face for a couple of minutes , started melodramatically , and suddenly withdrew them . 
'You seem unhappy , Mr. Jingle , said the lady , in a plaintive voice . 
'Stay , Mr. Jingle ! said the spinster aunt emphatically . 
'You have made an allusion to Mr. Tupman explain it . 
'Never ! and , by way of showing that he had no desire to be questioned further , he drew a chair close to that of the spinster aunt and sat down . 
Jingle , said the aunt , 'I entreat I implore you , if there is any dreadful mystery connected with Mr. Tupman , reveal it . 
'The wretch ! exclaimed the spinster , with energetic indignation . 
'More than that , said Jingle 'loves another . 
'Another ! ejaculated the spinster . 
'Who ? 'Short girl black eyes niece Emily . 
Now , if there was one individual in the whole world , of whom the spinster aunt entertained a mortal and deep rooted jealousy , it was this identical niece . 
The colour rushed over her face and neck , and she tossed her head in silence with an air of ineffable contempt . 
At last , biting her thin lips , and bridling up , she said 'It can't be . 
'Watch 'em , said Jingle . 
'I will , said the aunt . 
'He'll sit next her at table . 
'He'll pay her every possible attention . 
'Cut ME ! screamed the spinster aunt . 
'HE cut ME will he ! and she trembled with rage and disappointment . 
'You will convince yourself ? said Jingle . 
'You'll show your spirit ? 'I will . 
'You'll not have him afterwards ? 'Never . 
'You'll take somebody else ? 'Yes . 
Mr. Jingle fell on his knees , remained thereupon for five minutes thereafter and rose the accepted lover of the spinster aunt conditionally upon Mr. Tupman's perjury being made clear and manifest . 
The burden of proof lay with Mr. Alfred Jingle and he produced his evidence that very day at dinner . 
The spinster aunt could hardly believe her eyes . 
Mr. Tracy Tupman was established at Emily's side , ogling , whispering , and smiling , in opposition to Mr. Snodgrass . 
Not a word , not a look , not a glance , did he bestow upon his heart's pride of the evening before . 
'Damn that boy ! thought old Mr. Wardle to himself . 
He had heard the story from his mother . 
'Damn that boy ! He must have been asleep . 
'Traitor ! thought the spinster aunt . 
'Dear Mr. Jingle was not deceiving me . 
Ugh ! how I hate the wretch ! The following conversation may serve to explain to our readers this apparently unaccountable alteration of deportment on the part of Mr. Tracy Tupman . 
The time was evening the scene the garden . 
There were two figures walking in a side path one was rather short and stout the other tall and slim . 
They were Mr. Tupman and Mr. Jingle . 
The stout figure commenced the dialogue . 
'How did I do it ? he inquired . 
'Splendid capital couldn't act better myself you must repeat the part to morrow every evening till further notice . 
'Any message ? 'Love best love kindest regards unalterable affection . 
Say I applaud her wisdom and admire her discretion . 
Anything more ? 'Nothing , only add how ardently I long for the time when I may call her mine , and all dissimulation may be unnecessary . 
My dear friend , can I ever repay you ? 'Don't talk of it , replied Mr. Jingle . 
He stopped short , as if suddenly recollecting something , and said 'By the bye can't spare ten pounds , can you ? very particular purpose pay you in three days . 
'I dare say I can , replied Mr. Tupman , in the fulness of his heart . 
'Three days , you say ? 'Only three days all over then no more difficulties . 
Mr. Tupman counted the money into his companion's hand , and he dropped it piece by piece into his pocket , as they walked towards the house . 
'Be careful , said Mr. Jingle 'not a look . 
'Not a wink , said Mr. Tupman . 
'All your attentions to the niece rather rude , than otherwise , to the aunt only way of deceiving the old ones . 
'I'll take care , said Mr. Tupman aloud . 
'And I'LL take care , said Mr. Jingle internally and they entered the house . 
The scene of that afternoon was repeated that evening , and on the three afternoons and evenings next ensuing . 
On the fourth , the host was in high spirits , for he had satisfied himself that there was no ground for the charge against Mr. Tupman . 
So was Mr. Tupman , for Mr. Jingle had told him that his affair would soon be brought to a crisis . 
So was Mr. Pickwick , for he was seldom otherwise . 
So was not Mr. Snodgrass , for he had grown jealous of Mr. Tupman . 
So was the old lady , for she had been winning at whist . 
So were Mr. Jingle and Miss Wardle , for reasons of sufficient importance in this eventful history to be narrated in another chapter . 
'Where's Rachael ? said Mr. Wardle . 
'Ay , and Jingle ? added Mr. Pickwick . 
'Dear me , said the host , 'I wonder I haven't missed him before . 
Why , I don't think I've heard his voice for two hours at least . 
Emily , my dear , ring the bell . 
The bell was rung , and the fat boy appeared . 
'Where's Miss Rachael ? He couldn't say . 
'Where's Mr. Jingle , then ? He didn't know . 
It was late past eleven o'clock . 
Mr. Tupman laughed in his sleeve . 
They were loitering somewhere , talking about him . 
Ha , ha ! capital notion that funny . 
'Never mind , said Wardle , after a short pause . 
'They'll turn up presently , I dare say . 
I never wait supper for anybody . 
'Excellent rule , that , said Mr. Pickwick 'admirable . 
'Pray , sit down , said the host . 
'Certainly' said Mr. Pickwick and down they sat . 
There was a gigantic round of cold beef on the table , and Mr. Pickwick was supplied with a plentiful portion of it . 
He paused , and laid down his fork . 
Mr. Wardle paused too , and insensibly released his hold of the carving knife , which remained inserted in the beef . 
He looked at Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick looked at him . 
'What the devil's the meaning of this ? exclaimed the host . 
'The kitchen chimney ain't a fire , is it , Emma ? inquired the old lady . 
'Lor , grandma ! No , screamed both the young ladies . 
'What's the matter ? roared the master of the house . 
'Who's gone ? said Mr. Wardle fiercely . 
'Mus'r Jingle and Miss Rachael , in a po' chay , from Blue Lion , Muggleton . 
I was there but I couldn't stop 'em so I run off to tell 'ee . 
'I paid his expenses ! said Mr. Tupman , jumping up frantically . 
'Lord preserve us ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick , eyeing the extraordinary gestures of his friend with terrified surprise . 
'He's gone mad ! What shall we do ? 'Do ! said the stout old host , who regarded only the last words of the sentence . 
'Put the horse in the gig ! I'll get a chaise at the Lion , and follow 'em instantly . 
Where ? he exclaimed , as the man ran out to execute the commission 'where's that villain , Joe ? 'Here I am ! but I hain't a willin , replied a voice . 
It was the fat boy's . 
'Let me get at him , Pickwick , cried Wardle , as he rushed at the ill starred youth . 
'Let me get at him ! 'Don't let him ! screamed all the women , above whose exclamations the blubbering of the fat boy was distinctly audible . 
'I won't be held ! cried the old man . 
Winkle , take your hands off . 
He had no sooner released his hold , than the man entered to announce that the gig was ready . 
'Don't let him go alone ! screamed the females . 
'He'll kill somebody ! 'I'll go with him , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'You're a good fellow , Pickwick , said the host , grasping his hand . 
'Emma , give Mr. Pickwick a shawl to tie round his neck make haste . 
Look after your grandmother , girls she has fainted away . 
They jumped into the gig . 
'How much are they ahead ? shouted Wardle , as they drove up to the door of the Blue Lion , round which a little crowd had collected , late as it was . 
'Not above three quarters of an hour , was everybody's reply . 
'Chaise and four directly ! out with 'em ! Put up the gig afterwards . 
'Now , boys ! cried the landlord 'chaise and four out make haste look alive there ! Away ran the hostlers and the boys . 
'Now then ! is that chaise coming out to night ? cried Wardle . 
'Coming down the yard now , Sir , replied the hostler . 
Out came the chaise in went the horses on sprang the boys in got the travellers . 
'Mind the seven mile stage in less than half an hour ! shouted Wardle . 
'Off with you ! The boys applied whip and spur , the waiters shouted , the hostlers cheered , and away they went , fast and furiously . 
'Pretty situation , thought Mr. Pickwick , when he had had a moment's time for reflection . 
'Pretty situation for the general chairman of the Pickwick Club . 
'We're sure to catch them , I think , said he . 
'Hope so , replied his companion . 
'Fine night , said Mr. Pickwick , looking up at the moon , which was shining brightly . 
'So much the worse , returned Wardle 'for they'll have had all the advantage of the moonlight to get the start of us , and we shall lose it . 
It will have gone down in another hour . 
'It will be rather unpleasant going at this rate in the dark , won't it ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'I dare say it will , replied his friend dryly . 
Mr. Pickwick's temporary excitement began to sober down a little , as he reflected upon the inconveniences and dangers of the expedition in which he had so thoughtlessly embarked . 
He was roused by a loud shouting of the post boy on the leader . 
'Yo yo yo yo yoe ! went the first boy . 
'Yo yo yo yoe ! went the second . 
'Yo yo yo yoe ! chimed in old Wardle himself , most lustily , with his head and half his body out of the coach window . 
'Yo yo yo yoe ! shouted Mr. Pickwick , taking up the burden of the cry , though he had not the slightest notion of its meaning or object . 
And amidst the yo yoing of the whole four , the chaise stopped . 
'What's the matter ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'There's a gate here , replied old Wardle . 
'We shall hear something of the fugitives . 
After a lapse of five minutes , consumed in incessant knocking and shouting , an old man in his shirt and trousers emerged from the turnpike house , and opened the gate . 
'How long is it since a post chaise went through here ? inquired Mr. Wardle . 
'How long ? 'ah ! 'Why , I don't rightly know . 
It worn't a long time ago , nor it worn't a short time ago just between the two , perhaps . 
'Has any chaise been by at all ? 'Oh , yes , there's been a Shay by . 
'How long ago , my friend , interposed Mr. Pickwick 'an hour ? 'Ah , I dare say it might be , replied the man . 
'Or two hours ? inquired the post boy on the wheeler . 
'Well , I shouldn't wonder if it was , returned the old man doubtfully . 
'No not much o' that either you've lost ten minutes here , and gone away as wise as you came , arter all . 
If every man on the line as has a guinea give him , earns it half as well , you won't catch t'other shay this side Mich'lmas , old short and fat . 
And with another prolonged grin , the old man closed the gate , re entered his house , and bolted the door after him . 
Meanwhile the chaise proceeded , without any slackening of pace , towards the conclusion of the stage . 
The wind , too , which was directly against them , swept in furious gusts down the narrow road , and howled dismally through the trees which skirted the pathway . 
The boys were sleeping with such mysterious soundness , that it took five minutes a piece to wake them . 
They resumed their journey and certainly the prospect before them was by no means encouraging . 
The stage was fifteen miles long , the night was dark , the wind high , and the rain pouring in torrents . 
It was impossible to make any great way against such obstacles united it was hard upon one o'clock already and nearly two hours were consumed in getting to the end of the stage . 
Here , however , an object presented itself , which rekindled their hopes , and reanimated their drooping spirits . 
'When did this chaise come in ? cried old Wardle , leaping out of his own vehicle , and pointing to one covered with wet mud , which was standing in the yard . 
'Not a quarter of an hour ago , sir , replied the hostler , to whom the question was addressed . 
'Lady and gentleman ? inquired Wardle , almost breathless with impatience . 
'Tall gentleman dress coat long legs thin body ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Elderly lady thin face rather skinny eh ? 'Yes , sir . 
'By heavens , it's the couple , Pickwick , exclaimed the old gentleman . 
'Would have been here before , said the hostler , 'but they broke a trace . 
''Tis them ! said Wardle , 'it is , by Jove ! Chaise and four instantly ! We shall catch them yet before they reach the next stage . 
A guinea a piece , boys be alive there bustle about there's good fellows . 
'Jump in jump in ! cried old Wardle , climbing into the chaise , pulling up the steps , and slamming the door after him . 
'Ah ! we are moving now , said the old gentleman exultingly . 
They were indeed , as was sufficiently testified to Mr. Pickwick , by his constant collision either with the hard wood work of the chaise , or the body of his companion . 
'Hold up ! said the stout old Mr. Wardle , as Mr. Pickwick dived head foremost into his capacious waistcoat . 
'I never did feel such a jolting in my life , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Never mind , replied his companion , 'it will soon be over . 
Mr. Pickwick planted himself into his own corner , as firmly as he could and on whirled the chaise faster than ever . 
Yes there was a chaise and four , a short distance before them , dashing along at full gallop . 
'Go on , go on , almost shrieked the old gentleman . 
'Two guineas a piece , boys don't let 'em gain on us keep it up keep it up . 
The horses in the first chaise started on at their utmost speed and those in Mr. Wardle's galloped furiously behind them . 
'I see his head , exclaimed the choleric old man 'damme , I see his head . 
'So do I' said Mr. Pickwick 'that's he . 
Mr. Pickwick was not mistaken . 
Fields , trees , and hedges , seemed to rush past them with the velocity of a whirlwind , so rapid was the pace at which they tore along . 
They were close by the side of the first chaise . 
Jingle's voice could be plainly heard , even above the din of the wheels , urging on the boys . 
Old Mr. Wardle foamed with rage and excitement . 
There was a sudden bump a loud crash away rolled a wheel , and over went the chaise . 
Old Mr. Wardle without a hat , and his clothes torn in several places , stood by his side , and the fragments of the chaise lay scattered at their feet . 
The post boys , who had succeeded in cutting the traces , were standing , disfigured with mud and disordered by hard riding , by the horses' heads . 
About a hundred yards in advance was the other chaise , which had pulled up on hearing the crash . 
The day was just breaking , and the whole scene was rendered perfectly visible by the grey light of the morning . 
'Hollo ! shouted the shameless Jingle , 'anybody damaged ? elderly gentlemen no light weights dangerous work very . 
'You're a rascal , roared Wardle . 
The postillions resumed their proper attitudes , and away rattled the chaise , Mr. Jingle fluttering in derision a white handkerchief from the coach window . 
Nothing in the whole adventure , not even the upset , had disturbed the calm and equable current of Mr. Pickwick's temper . 
The villainy , however , which could first borrow money of his faithful follower , and then abbreviate his name to 'Tuppy , was more than he could patiently bear . 
Mr. Pickwick paused , bottled up his vengeance , and corked it down . 
'How far is it to the next stage ? inquired Mr. Wardle , of one of the boys . 
'Six mile , ain't it , Tom ? 'Rayther better . 
'Rayther better nor six mile , Sir . 
'Can't be helped , said Wardle , 'we must walk it , Pickwick . 
'No help for it , replied that truly great man . 
The reader would look in vain for any of these ancient hostelries , among the Golden Crosses and Bull and Mouths , which rear their stately fronts in the improved streets of London . 
He was habited in a coarse , striped waistcoat , with black calico sleeves , and blue glass buttons drab breeches and leggings . 
A bright red handkerchief was wound in a very loose and unstudied style round his neck , and an old white hat was carelessly thrown on one side of his head . 
The yard presented none of that bustle and activity which are the usual characteristics of a large coach inn . 
'Number twenty two wants his boots . 
'Ask number twenty two , vether he'll have 'em now , or vait till he gets 'em , was the reply . 
'Come , don't be a fool , Sam , said the girl coaxingly , 'the gentleman wants his boots directly . 
'Well , you ARE a nice young 'ooman for a musical party , you are , said the boot cleaner . 
'Look at these here boots eleven pair o' boots and one shoe as belongs to number six , with the wooden leg . 
The eleven boots is to be called at half past eight and the shoe at nine . 
Who's number twenty two , that's to put all the others out ? No , no reg'lar rotation , as Jack Ketch said , ven he tied the men up . 
Sorry to keep you a waitin' , Sir , but I'll attend to you directly . 
Saying which , the man in the white hat set to work upon a top boot with increased assiduity . 
There was another loud ring and the bustling old landlady of the White Hart made her appearance in the opposite gallery . 
'Here , clean these shoes for number seventeen directly , and take 'em to private sitting room , number five , first floor . 
The landlady flung a pair of lady's shoes into the yard , and bustled away . 
'Vy didn't you say so before , said Sam , with great indignation , singling out the boots in question from the heap before him . 
'For all I know'd he was one o' the regular threepennies . 
Private room ! and a lady too ! If he's anything of a gen'l'm'n , he's vurth a shillin' a day , let alone the arrands . 
, had arrived at the door of number five . 
'Come in , said a man's voice , in reply to Sam's rap at the door . 
Sam made his best bow , and stepped into the presence of a lady and gentleman seated at breakfast . 
Having officiously deposited the gentleman's boots right and left at his feet , and the lady's shoes right and left at hers , he backed towards the door . 
'Boots , said the gentleman . 
'Sir , said Sam , closing the door , and keeping his hand on the knob of the lock . 
'Do you know what's a name Doctors' Commons ? 'Yes , Sir . 
'Touts for licences ! said the gentleman . 
'Touts for licences , replied Sam . 
'What do they do ? inquired the gentleman . 
'Do ! You , Sir ! That ain't the worst on it , neither . 
They puts things into old gen'l'm'n's heads as they never dreamed of . 
My father , Sir , wos a coachman . 
A widower he wos , and fat enough for anything uncommon fat , to be sure . 
His missus dies , and leaves him four hundred pound . 
Down he goes to the Commons , to see the lawyer and draw the blunt very smart top boots on nosegay in his button hole broad brimmed tile green shawl quite the gen'l'm'n . 
Goes through the archvay , thinking how he should inwest the money up comes the touter , touches his hat Licence , Sir , licence ? What's that ? says my father . 
Licence , Sir , says he . 
What licence ? says my father . 
Marriage licence , says the touter . 
Dash my veskit , says my father , I never thought o' that . 
I think you wants one , Sir , says the touter . 
My father pulls up , and thinks a bit No , says he , damme , I'm too old , b'sides , I'm a many sizes too large , says he . 
Not a bit on it , Sir , says the touter . 
Think not ? says my father . 
I'm sure not , says he we married a gen'l'm'n twice your size , last Monday . 
Did you , though ? said my father . 
Pray take a seat , vile I makes out the affidavit , Sir , says the lawyer . 
Thank'ee , Sir , says my father , and down he sat , and stared with all his eyes , and his mouth vide open , at the names on the boxes . 
What's your name , Sir , says the lawyer . 
Tony Weller , says my father . 
Parish ? says the lawyer . 
Belle Savage , says my father for he stopped there wen he drove up , and he know'd nothing about parishes , he didn't . 
And what's the lady's name ? says the lawyer . 
My father was struck all of a heap . 
Blessed if I know , says he . 
Not know ! says the lawyer . 
No more nor you do , says my father can't I put that in arterwards ? Impossible ! says the lawyer . 
Wery well , says my father , after he'd thought a moment , put down Mrs. Clarke . 
What Clarke ? says the lawyer , dipping his pen in the ink . 
Susan Clarke , Markis o' Granby , Dorking , says my father she'll have me , if I ask . 
I des say I never said nothing to her , but she'll have me , I know . 
The licence was made out , and she DID have him , and what's more she's got him now and I never had any of the four hundred pound , worse luck . 
Having said which , and having paused for an instant to see whether he was wanted for anything more , Sam left the room . 
'Half past nine just the time off at once said the gentleman , whom we need hardly introduce as Mr. Jingle . 
'Time for what ? said the spinster aunt coquettishly . 
'Licence , dearest of angels give notice at the church call you mine , to morrow' said Mr. Jingle , and he squeezed the spinster aunt's hand . 
'The licence ! said Rachael , blushing . 
'The licence , repeated Mr. Jingle 'In hurry , post haste for a licence , In hurry , ding dong I come back . 
'How you run on , said Rachael . 
'Run on nothing to the hours , days , weeks , months , years , when we're united run on they'll fly on bolt mizzle steam engine thousand horse power nothing to it . 
'Can't can't we be married before to morrow morning ? inquired Rachael . 
'Impossible can't be notice at the church leave the licence to day ceremony come off to morrow . 
'I am so terrified , lest my brother should discover us ! said Rachael . 
'Don't be long , said the spinster affectionately , as Mr. Jingle stuck the pinched up hat on his head . 
'Long away from you ? Cruel charmer and Mr. Jingle skipped playfully up to the spinster aunt , imprinted a chaste kiss upon her lips , and danced out of the room . 
'Dear man ! said the spinster , as the door closed after him . 
'Rum old girl , said Mr. Jingle , as he walked down the passage . 
'My friend , said the thin gentleman . 
'You're one o' the adwice gratis order , thought Sam , 'or you wouldn't be so wery fond o' me all at once . 
But he only said 'Well , Sir . 
'My friend , said the thin gentleman , with a conciliatory hem 'have you got many people stopping here now ? Pretty busy . 
Eh ? Sam stole a look at the inquirer . 
He was dressed all in black , with boots as shiny as his eyes , a low white neckcloth , and a clean shirt with a frill to it . 
A gold watch chain , and seals , depended from his fob . 
'Pretty busy , eh ? said the little man . 
'Oh , wery well , Sir , replied Sam , 'we shan't be bankrupts , and we shan't make our fort'ns . 
We eats our biled mutton without capers , and don't care for horse radish ven ve can get beef . 
'This is a curious old house of yours , said the little man , looking round him . 
'If you'd sent word you was a coming , we'd ha' had it repaired replied the imperturbable Sam . 
The little man seemed rather baffled by these several repulses , and a short consultation took place between him and the two plump gentlemen . 
Really , Mr. He turned to the other plump gentleman , and said , 'I forget your friend's name . 
'Pickwick , said Mr. Wardle , for it was no other than that jolly personage . 
Really , my dear Sir , really and the little man took an argumentative pinch of snuff , and looked very profound . 
'My only wish , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , 'was to bring this very unpleasant matter to as speedy a close as possible . 
'Quite right quite right , said the little man . 
'With which view , continued Mr. Pickwick , 'I made use of the argument which my experience of men has taught me is the most likely to succeed in any case . 
'Ay , ay , said the little man , 'very good , very good , indeed but you should have suggested it to me . 
My dear sir , I'm quite certain you cannot be ignorant of the extent of confidence which must be placed in professional men . 
Hows'ever , that's neither here nor there . 
You want me to accept of half a guinea . 
Then the next question is , what the devil do you want with me , as the man said , wen he see the ghost ? 'We want to know said Mr. Wardle . 
'Now , my dear sir my dear sir , interposed the busy little man . 
Mr. Wardle shrugged his shoulders , and was silent . 
'Nothing more ? said the little man . 
'Stop a bit , replied Sam , suddenly recollecting himself . 
'Yes there's a pair of Vellingtons a good deal worn , and a pair o' lady's shoes , in number five . 
'What sort of shoes ? hastily inquired Wardle , who , together with Mr. Pickwick , had been lost in bewilderment at the singular catalogue of visitors . 
'Country make , replied Sam . 
'Any maker's name ? 'Brown . 
'It is them , exclaimed Wardle . 
'By heavens , we've found them . 
'The Vellingtons has gone to Doctors' Commons . 
'No , said the little man . 
'Yes , for a licence . 
'We're in time , exclaimed Wardle . 
'Show us the room not a moment is to be lost . 
'Pray , my dear sir pray , said the little man 'caution , caution . 
He drew from his pocket a red silk purse , and looked very hard at Sam as he drew out a sovereign . 
'Show us into the room at once , without announcing us , said the little man , 'and it's yours . 
Sam threw the painted tops into a corner , and led the way through a dark passage , and up a wide staircase . 
He paused at the end of a second passage , and held out his hand . 
'Here it is , whispered the attorney , as he deposited the money on the hand of their guide . 
The man stepped forward for a few paces , followed by the two friends and their legal adviser . 
He stopped at a door . 
'Is this the room ? murmured the little gentleman . 
Old Wardle opened the door and the whole three walked into the room just as Mr. Jingle , who had that moment returned , had produced the licence to the spinster aunt . 
The spinster uttered a loud shriek , and throwing herself into a chair , covered her face with her hands . 
Mr. Jingle crumpled up the licence , and thrust it into his coat pocket . 
The unwelcome visitors advanced into the middle of the room . 
'You you are a nice rascal , arn't you ? exclaimed Wardle , breathless with passion . 
'My dear Sir , my dear sir , said the little man , laying his hat on the table , 'pray , consider pray . 
Defamation of character action for damages . 
Calm yourself , my dear sir , pray 'How dare you drag my sister from my house ? said the old man . 
Ay ay very good , said the little gentleman , 'you may ask that . 
'Who is he , you scoundrel , interposed Wardle . 
'He's my lawyer , Mr. Perker , of Gray's Inn . 
Perker , I'll have this fellow prosecuted indicted I'll I'll I'll ruin him . 
'Get on your bonnet , repeated Wardle . 
'Do nothing of the kind , said Jingle . 
'Leave the room , Sir no business here lady's free to act as she pleases more than one and twenty . 
'More than one and twenty ! ejaculated Wardle contemptuously . 
'More than one and forty ! 'I ain't , said the spinster aunt , her indignation getting the better of her determination to faint . 
'You are , replied Wardle 'you're fifty if you're an hour . 
Here the spinster aunt uttered a loud shriek , and became senseless . 
'A glass of water , said the humane Mr. Pickwick , summoning the landlady . 
'A glass of water ! said the passionate Wardle . 
'Bring a bucket , and throw it all over her it'll do her good , and she richly deserves it . 
'Ugh , you brute ! ejaculated the kind hearted landlady . 
And with sundry ejaculations of 'Come now , there's a dear drink a little of this it'll do you good don't give way so there's a love , etc . 
'Coach is ready , Sir , said Sam , appearing at the door . 
'Come along , cried Wardle . 
At this proposition , the hysterics came on with redoubled violence . 
'Stay , stay , said little Mr. Perker . 
'Consider , Sir , consider . 
'I'll not consider , replied Jingle . 
'She's her own mistress see who dares to take her away unless she wishes it . 
'I WON'T be taken away , murmured the spinster aunt . 
'My dear Sir , said the little man , in a low tone , taking Mr. Wardle and Mr. Pickwick apart 'my dear Sir , we're in a very awkward situation . 
It's a distressing case very I never knew one more so but really , my dear sir , really we have no power to control this lady's actions . 
I warned you before we came , my dear sir , that there was nothing to look to but a compromise . 
There was a short pause . 
'What kind of compromise would you recommend ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , my dear Sir , our friend's in an unpleasant position very much so . 
We must be content to suffer some pecuniary loss . 
'I'll suffer any , rather than submit to this disgrace , and let her , fool as she is , be made miserable for life , said Wardle . 
'I rather think it can be done , said the bustling little man . 
Jingle , will you step with us into the next room for a moment ? Mr. Jingle assented , and the quartette walked into an empty apartment . 
Don't frown , Sir , don't frown I say , between you and I , WE know it . 
'Very good , very good , said the little man , observing the impression he had made . 
'Now , the fact is , that beyond a few hundreds , the lady has little or nothing till the death of her mother fine old lady , my dear Sir . 
'OLD , said Mr. Jingle briefly but emphatically . 
'Why , yes , said the attorney , with a slight cough . 
'You are right , my dear Sir , she is rather old . 
She comes of an old family though , my dear Sir old in every sense of the word . 
The old lady is not seventy three now , my dear Sir . 
The little man paused , and took a pinch of snuff . 
'Well , cried Mr. Jingle . 
'Do you comprehend me ? 'Not quite . 
'Nay , nay , my dear Sir , remonstrated the little attorney , seizing him by the button . 
'Good round sum a man like you could treble it in no time great deal to be done with fifty pounds , my dear Sir . 
'More to be done with a hundred and fifty , replied Mr. Jingle coolly . 
'Well , my dear Sir , we won't waste time in splitting straws , resumed the little man , 'say say seventy . 
'Won't do , said Mr. Jingle . 
'Don't go away , my dear sir pray don't hurry , said the little man . 
'Eighty come I'll write you a cheque at once . 
'Won't do , said Mr. Jingle . 
'Well , my dear Sir , well , said the little man , still detaining him 'just tell me what WILL do . 
'Expensive affair , said Mr. Jingle . 
That's a hundred and twelve say a hundred come . 
'And twenty , said Mr. Jingle . 
'Come , come , I'll write you a cheque , said the little man and down he sat at the table for that purpose . 
'I'll make it payable the day after to morrow , said the little man , with a look towards Mr. Wardle 'and we can get the lady away , meanwhile . 
Mr. Wardle sullenly nodded assent . 
'A hundred , said the little man . 
'And twenty , said Mr. Jingle . 
'My dear Sir , remonstrated the little man . 
'Give it him , interposed Mr. Wardle , 'and let him go . 
The cheque was written by the little gentleman , and pocketed by Mr. Jingle . 
'Now , leave this house instantly ! said Wardle , starting up . 
'My dear Sir , urged the little man . 
'Be quiet , Perker , resumed Wardle . 
'Leave the room , Sir . 
'Off directly , said the unabashed Jingle . 
His nostrils dilated , and his fists clenched involuntarily , as he heard himself addressed by the villain . 
But he restrained himself again he did not pulverise him . 
'Here , continued the hardened traitor , tossing the licence at Mr. Pickwick's feet 'get the name altered take home the lady do for Tuppy . 
Mr. Pickwick was a philosopher , but philosophers are only men in armour , after all . 
The shaft had reached him , penetrated through his philosophical harness , to his very heart . 
In the frenzy of his rage , he hurled the inkstand madly forward , and followed it up himself . 
But Mr. Jingle had disappeared , and he found himself caught in the arms of Sam . 
'Hollo , said that eccentric functionary , 'furniter's cheap where you come from , Sir . 
Self acting ink , that 'ere it's wrote your mark upon the wall , old gen'l'm'n . 
He was a quick and powerful reasoner and a moment's reflection sufficed to remind him of the impotency of his rage . 
It subsided as quickly as it had been roused . 
He panted for breath , and looked benignantly round upon his friends . 
Dimly and darkly had the sombre shadows of a summer's night fallen upon all around , when they again reached Dingley Dell , and stood within the entrance to Manor Farm . 
There was a mysterious air about them both , as unusual as it was alarming . 
He turned away his head , and appeared absorbed in melancholy reflection . 
Mr. Pickwick stopped , and gazed on each of his friends in turn . 
'Winkle Snodgrass , said Mr. Pickwick 'what does this mean ? Where is our friend ? What has happened ? Speak I conjure , I entreat nay , I command you , speak . 
There was a solemnity a dignity in Mr. Pickwick's manner , not to be withstood . 
'He is gone , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Gone ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Gone ! 'Gone , repeated Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Where ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick . 
'We can only guess , from that communication , replied Mr. Snodgrass , taking a letter from his pocket , and placing it in his friend's hand . 
He shortly afterwards disappeared he was missing during the whole day , and in the evening this letter was brought by the hostler from the Crown , at Muggleton . 
It had been left in his charge in the morning , with a strict injunction that it should not be delivered until night . 
Mr. Pickwick opened the epistle . 
I hope you never may . 
'Any letter addressed to me at the Leather Bottle , Cobham , Kent , will be forwarded supposing I still exist . 
I hasten from the sight of that world , which has become odious to me . 
Should I hasten from it altogether , pity forgive me . 
Life , my dear Pickwick , has become insupportable to me . 
You may tell Rachael Ah , that name ! 'TRACY TupmAN . 
'We must leave this place directly , said Mr. Pickwick , as he refolded the note . 
'It would not have been decent for us to remain here , under any circumstances , after what has happened and now we are bound to follow in search of our friend . 
And so saying , he led the way to the house . 
His intention was rapidly communicated . 
The entreaties to remain were pressing , but Mr. Pickwick was inflexible . 
Business , he said , required his immediate attendance . 
The old clergyman was present . 
'You are not really going ? said he , taking Mr. Pickwick aside . 
Mr. Pickwick reiterated his former determination . 
'Then here , said the old gentleman , 'is a little manuscript , which I had hoped to have the pleasure of reading to you myself . 
I can hardly believe that the manuscript is genuine , though it certainly is not in my friend's hand . 
, read it , and judge for yourself . 
Mr. Pickwick received the manuscript , and parted from the benevolent old gentleman with many expressions of good will and esteem . 
It was a more difficult task to take leave of the inmates of Manor Farm , from whom they had received so much hospitality and kindness . 
, that the three friends were enabled to tear themselves from their friendly entertainers . 
At Muggleton they procured a conveyance to Rochester . 
The ivy and the moss crept in thick clusters over the old trees , and the soft green turf overspread the ground like a silken mat . 
They emerged upon an open park , with an ancient hall , displaying the quaint and picturesque architecture of Elizabeth's time . 
'I think so too , said Mr. Winkle . 
'Show the gentlemen into the parlour , Tom , said the landlady . 
On the entrance of his friends , that gentleman laid down his knife and fork , and with a mournful air advanced to meet them . 
'I did not expect to see you here , he said , as he grasped Mr. Pickwick's hand . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Pickwick , sitting down , and wiping from his forehead the perspiration which the walk had engendered . 
'Finish your dinner , and walk out with me . 
I wish to speak to you alone . 
Mr. Tupman did as he was desired and Mr. Pickwick having refreshed himself with a copious draught of ale , waited his friend's leisure . 
The dinner was quickly despatched , and they walked out together . 
For half an hour , their forms might have been seen pacing the churchyard to and fro , while Mr. Pickwick was engaged in combating his companion's resolution . 
Mr. Pickwick smiled they shook hands , and walked back to rejoin their companions . 
They had passed the door of their inn , and walked a little way down the village , before they recollected the precise spot in which it stood . 
As they turned back , Mr. Pickwick's eye fell upon a small broken stone , partially buried in the ground , in front of a cottage door . 
'This is very strange , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'What is strange ? inquired Mr. Tupman , staring eagerly at every object near him , but the right one . 
'There is an inscription here , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Is it possible ? said Mr. Tupman . 
'This is some very old inscription , existing perhaps long before the ancient alms houses in this place . 
It must not be lost . 
He tapped at the cottage door . 
A labouring man opened it . 
'Do you know how this stone came here , my friend ? inquired the benevolent Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , I doan't , Sir , replied the man civilly . 
'It was here long afore I was born , or any on us . 
Mr. Pickwick glanced triumphantly at his companion . 
'You you are not particularly attached to it , I dare say , said Mr. Pickwick , trembling with anxiety . 
'You wouldn't mind selling it , now ? 'Ah ! but who'd buy it ? inquired the man , with an expression of face which he probably meant to be very cunning . 
'I'll give you ten shillings for it , at once , said Mr. Pickwick , 'if you would take it up for me . 
Mr. Pickwick , by dint of great personal exertion , bore it with his own hands to the inn , and after having carefully washed it , deposited it on the table . 
The exultation and joy of the Pickwickians knew no bounds , when their patience and assiduity , their washing and scraping , were crowned with success . 
He had attained one of the greatest objects of his ambition . 
He could hardly trust the evidence of his senses . 
'This this , said he , 'determines me . 
We return to town to morrow . 
'To morrow ! exclaimed his admiring followers . 
'To morrow , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'This treasure must be at once deposited where it can be thoroughly investigated and properly understood . 
I have another reason for this step . 
We will behold , and minutely examine , a scene so interesting to every Englishman . 
'We will , was the animated cry of three voices . 
Mr. Pickwick looked round him . 
The attachment and fervour of his followers lighted up a glow of enthusiasm within him . 
He was their leader , and he felt it . 
'Let us celebrate this happy meeting with a convivial glass , said he . 
This proposition , like the other , was received with unanimous applause . 
It was past eleven o'clock a late hour for the little village of Cobham when Mr. Pickwick retired to the bedroom which had been prepared for his reception . 
He threw open the lattice window , and setting his light upon the table , fell into a train of meditation on the hurried events of the two preceding days . 
The hour and the place were both favourable to contemplation Mr. Pickwick was roused by the church clock striking twelve . 
The first stroke of the hour sounded solemnly in his ear , but when the bell ceased the stillness seemed insupportable he almost felt as if he had lost a companion . 
He was nervous and excited and hastily undressing himself and placing his light in the chimney , got into bed . 
Every one has experienced that disagreeable state of mind , in which a sensation of bodily weariness in vain contends against an inability to sleep . 
It was Mr. Pickwick's condition at this moment he tossed first on one side and then on the other and perseveringly closed his eyes as if to coax himself to slumber . 
It was of no use . 
After half an hour's tumbling about , he came to the unsatisfactory conclusion , that it was of no use trying to sleep so he got up and partially dressed himself . 
Anything , he thought , was better than lying there fancying all kinds of horrors . 
He looked out of the window it was very dark . 
He walked about the room it was very lonely . 
He had taken a few turns from the door to the window , and from the window to the door , when the clergyman's manuscript for the first time entered his head . 
It was a good thought . 
if it failed to interest him , it might send him to sleep . 
He took it from his coat pocket , and drawing a small table towards his bedside , trimmed the light , put on his spectacles , and composed himself to read . 
It was a strange handwriting , and the paper was much soiled and blotted . 
The title gave him a sudden start , too and he could not avoid casting a wistful glance round the room . 
Show me the monarch whose angry frown was ever feared like the glare of a madman's eye whose cord and axe were ever half so sure as a madman's gripe . 
'I did this for years long , long years they were . 
The nights here are long sometimes very long but they are nothing to the restless nights , and dreadful dreams I had at that time . 
It makes me cold to remember them . 
Large dusky forms with sly and jeering faces crouched in the corners of the room , and bent over my bed at night , tempting me to madness . 
I knew they told the truth I knew it well . 
I had found it out years before , though they had tried to keep it from me . 
Ha ! ha ! I was too cunning for them , madman as they thought me . 
'At last it came upon me , and I wondered how I could ever have feared it . 
I could go into the world now , and laugh and shout with the best among them . 
I knew I was mad , but they did not even suspect it . 
The law the eagle eyed law itself had been deceived , and had handed over disputed thousands to a madman's hands . 
Where was the wit of the sharp sighted men of sound mind ? Where the dexterity of the lawyers , eager to discover a flaw ? The madman's cunning had overreached them all . 
How I was courted ! I spent it profusely . 
It was for me to smile . 
To smile ! To laugh outright , and tear my hair , and roll upon the ground with shrieks of merriment . 
They little thought they had married her to a madman . 
If they had known it , would they have saved her ? A sister's happiness against her husband's gold . 
The lightest feather I blow into the air , against the gay chain that ornaments my body ! 'In one thing I was deceived with all my cunning . 
'I don't remember forms or faces now , but I know the girl was beautiful . 
'For nearly a year I saw that face grow paler for nearly a year I saw the tears steal down the mournful cheeks , and never knew the cause . 
I found it out at last though . 
They could not keep it from me long . 
She had never liked me I had never thought she did she despised my wealth , and hated the splendour in which she lived but I had not expected that . 
This I had never thought of . 
Strange feelings came over me , and thoughts , forced upon me by some secret power , whirled round and round my brain . 
I did not hate her , though I hated the boy she still wept for . 
I pitied yes , I pitied the wretched life to which her cold and selfish relations had doomed her . 
I resolved to kill her . 
'For many weeks I thought of poison , and then of drowning , and then of fire . 
A fine sight , the grand house in flames , and the madman's wife smouldering away to cinders . 
I grasped it firmly , rose softly from the bed , and leaned over my sleeping wife . 
Her face was buried in her hands . 
I withdrew them softly , and they fell listlessly on her bosom . 
She had been weeping for the traces of the tears were still wet upon her cheek . 
Her face was calm and placid and even as I looked upon it , a tranquil smile lighted up her pale features . 
I laid my hand softly on her shoulder . 
She started it was only a passing dream . 
She screamed , and woke . 
'One motion of my hand , and she would never again have uttered cry or sound . 
But I was startled , and drew back . 
Her eyes were fixed on mine . 
I knew not how it was , but they cowed and frightened me and I quailed beneath them . 
She rose from the bed , still gazing fixedly and steadily on me . 
I trembled the razor was in my hand , but I could not move . 
She made towards the door . 
As she neared it , she turned , and withdrew her eyes from my face . 
I bounded forward , and clutched her by the arm . 
Uttering shriek upon shriek , she sank upon the ground . 
'Now I could have killed her without a struggle but the house was alarmed . 
I heard the tread of footsteps on the stairs . 
I replaced the razor in its usual drawer , unfastened the door , and called loudly for assistance . 
'They came , and raised her , and placed her on the bed . 
She lay bereft of animation for hours and when life , look , and speech returned , her senses had deserted her , and she raved wildly and furiously . 
'Doctors were called in great men who rolled up to my door in easy carriages , with fine horses and gaudy servants . 
They were at her bedside for weeks . 
They had a great meeting and consulted together in low and solemn voices in another room . 
He stood close beside me at an open window , his eyes looking in my face , and his hand laid upon my arm . 
With one effort , I could have hurled him into the street beneath . 
It would have been rare sport to have done it but my secret was at stake , and I let him go . 
A few days after , they told me I must place her under some restraint I must provide a keeper for her . 
I ! I went into the open fields where none could hear me , and laughed till the air resounded with my shouts ! 'She died next day . 
'But though I had carried my object and killed her , I was restless and disturbed , and I felt that before long my secret must be known . 
But I ground my teeth , and struck my feet upon the floor , and drove my sharp nails into my hands . 
I kept it down and no one knew I was a madman yet . 
The strength of a giant comes upon me when I think of it . 
There see how this iron bar bends beneath my furious wrench . 
They know what a clever madman I have been , and they are proud to have me here , to show . 
'Let me see yes , I had been out . 
It was late at night when I reached home , and found the proudest of the three proud brothers waiting to see me urgent business he said I recollect it well . 
I hated that man with all a madman's hate . 
Many and many a time had my fingers longed to tear him . 
They told me he was there . 
He had a word to say to me . 
It was late , and we were alone together for the first time . 
'I kept my eyes carefully from him at first , for I knew what he little thought and I gloried in the knowledge that the light of madness gleamed from them like fire . 
We sat in silence for a few minutes . 
My recent dissipation , and strange remarks , made so soon after his sister's death , were an insult to her memory . 
Coupling together many circumstances which had at first escaped his observation , he thought I had not treated her well . 
He wished to know whether he was right in inferring that I meant to cast a reproach upon her memory , and a disrespect upon her family . 
It was due to the uniform he wore , to demand this explanation . 
This was the man who had been the main instrument in forcing his sister to wed me well knowing that her heart was given to that puling boy . 
Due to his uniform ! The livery of his degradation ! I turned my eyes upon him I could not help it but I spoke not a word . 
'I saw the sudden change that came upon him beneath my gaze . 
He was a bold man , but the colour faded from his face , and he drew back his chair . 
I dragged mine nearer to him and I laughed I was very merry then I saw him shudder . 
I felt the madness rising within me . 
He was afraid of me . 
You were very fond of your sister when she was alive , I said . 
'He looked uneasily round him , and I saw his hand grasp the back of his chair but he said nothing . 
I know it I know it . 
'He jumped suddenly from his chair , brandished it aloft , and bid me stand back for I took care to be getting closer to him all the time I spoke . 
'I screamed rather than talked , for I felt tumultuous passions eddying through my veins , and the old spirits whispering and taunting me to tear his heart out . 
Damn you , said I , starting up , and rushing upon him I killed her . 
'It was a fine struggle that for he was a tall , strong man , fighting for his life and I , a powerful madman , thirsting to destroy him . 
I knew no strength could equal mine , and I was right . 
Right again , though a madman ! His struggles grew fainter . 
I knelt upon his chest , and clasped his brawny throat firmly with both hands . 
His face grew purple his eyes were starting from his head , and with protruded tongue , he seemed to mock me . 
'The door was suddenly burst open with a loud noise , and a crowd of people rushed forward , crying aloud to each other to secure the madman . 
'My secret was out and my only struggle now was for liberty and freedom . 
I gained the door , dropped over the banisters , and in an instant was in the street . 
'Straight and swift I ran , and no one dared to stop me . 
I heard the noise of the feet behind , and redoubled my speed . 
When I lie awake , I can sometimes hear strange shrieks and cries from distant parts of this large place . 
What they are , I know not but they neither come from that pale form , nor does it regard them . 
The thoughtless riot , dissipation , and debauchery of his younger days produced fever and delirium . 
This produced a settled gloom , which in time developed a morbid insanity , and finally terminated in raving madness . 
There is every reason to believe that the events he detailed , though distorted in the description by his diseased imagination , really happened . 
The sun was shining brilliantly into his chamber , when he awoke , and the morning was far advanced . 
After a hearty breakfast , the four gentlemen sallied forth to walk to Gravesend , followed by a man bearing the stone in its deal box . 
, and being fortunate enough to secure places on the outside of a coach , arrived in London in sound health and spirits , on that same afternoon . 
The next three or four days were occupied with the preparations which were necessary for their journey to the borough of Eatanswill . 
Mr. Blotton was ejected but not conquered . 
But this base attempt to injure Mr. Pickwick recoiled upon the head of its calumnious author . 
The seventeen learned societies unanimously voted the presumptuous Blotton an ignorant meddler , and forthwith set to work upon more treatises than ever . 
And to this day the stone remains , an illegible monument of Mr. Pickwick's greatness , and a lasting trophy to the littleness of his enemies . 
There were no children , no servants , no fowls . 
The only other inmates of the house were a large man and a small boy the first a lodger , the second a production of Mrs. Bardell's . 
Cleanliness and quiet reigned throughout the house and in it Mr. Pickwick's will was law . 
It was evident that something of great importance was in contemplation , but what that something was , not even Mrs. Bardell had been enabled to discover . 
Bardell , said Mr. Pickwick , at last , as that amiable female approached the termination of a prolonged dusting of the apartment . 
'Sir , said Mrs. Bardell . 
'Your little boy is a very long time gone . 
'Why it's a good long way to the Borough , sir , remonstrated Mrs. Bardell . 
'Ah , said Mr. Pickwick , 'very true so it is . 
Mr. Pickwick relapsed into silence , and Mrs. Bardell resumed her dusting . 
Bardell , said Mr. Pickwick , at the expiration of a few minutes . 
'Sir , said Mrs. Bardell again . 
'That depends , said Mrs. Bardell , approaching the duster very near to Mr. Pickwick's elbow which was planted on the table . 
'that depends a good deal upon the person , you know , Mr. Pickwick and whether it's a saving and careful person , sir . 
'La , Mr. Pickwick , said Mrs. Bardell , the crimson rising to her cap border again . 
'Dear me , sir , 'exclaimed Mrs. Bardell . 
'It'll save you a good deal of trouble , won't it ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Ah , to be sure , said Mr. Pickwick 'I never thought of that . 
When I am in town , you'll always have somebody to sit with you . 
To be sure , so you will . 
'I am sure I ought to be a very happy woman , said Mrs. Bardell . 
'And your little boy said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Bless his heart ! interposed Mrs. Bardell , with a maternal sob . 
And Mr. Pickwick smiled placidly . 
'Oh , you dear said Mrs. Bardell . 
'Bless my soul , cried the astonished Mr. Pickwick 'Mrs . 
Bardell , my good woman dear me , what a situation pray consider . 
'Mercy upon me , said Mr. Pickwick , struggling violently , 'I hear somebody coming up the stairs . 
Don't , don't , there's a good creature , don't . 
Mr. Pickwick was struck motionless and speechless . 
He stood with his lovely burden in his arms , gazing vacantly on the countenances of his friends , without the slightest attempt at recognition or explanation . 
They , in their turn , stared at him and Master Bardell , in his turn , stared at everybody . 
'Take this little villain away , said the agonised Mr. Pickwick , 'he's mad . 
'What is the matter ? said the three tongue tied Pickwickians . 
'I don't know , replied Mr. Pickwick pettishly . 
'Now help me , lead this woman downstairs . 
'Oh , I am better now , said Mrs. Bardell faintly . 
'Let me lead you downstairs , said the ever gallant Mr. Tupman . 
'Thank you , sir thank you exclaimed Mrs. Bardell hysterically . 
And downstairs she was led accordingly , accompanied by her affectionate son . 
'I cannot conceive , said Mr. Pickwick when his friend returned 'I cannot conceive what has been the matter with that woman . 
I had merely announced to her my intention of keeping a man servant , when she fell into the extraordinary paroxysm in which you found her . 
'Very , said his three friends . 
'Placed me in such an extremely awkward situation , continued Mr. Pickwick . 
'Very , was the reply of his followers , as they coughed slightly , and looked dubiously at each other . 
This behaviour was not lost upon Mr. Pickwick . 
'There is a man in the passage now , said Mr. Tupman . 
'It's the man I spoke to you about , said Mr. Pickwick 'I sent for him to the Borough this morning . 
Have the goodness to call him up , Snodgrass . 
Mr. Snodgrass did as he was desired and Mr. Samuel Weller forthwith presented himself . 
'Oh you remember me , I suppose ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I should think so , replied Sam , with a patronising wink . 
'Thank'ee , sir , said Sam . 
And down he sat without further bidding , having previously deposited his old white hat on the landing outside the door . 
''Tain't a wery good 'un to look at , said Sam , 'but it's an astonishin' 'un to wear and afore the brim went , it was a wery handsome tile . 
Hows'ever it's lighter without it , that's one thing , and every hole lets in some air , that's another wentilation gossamer I calls it . 
On the delivery of this sentiment , Mr. Weller smiled agreeably upon the assembled Pickwickians . 
'Now with regard to the matter on which I , with the concurrence of these gentlemen , sent for you , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'That's the pint , sir , interposed Sam 'out vith it , as the father said to his child , when he swallowed a farden . 
'We want to know , in the first place , said Mr. Pickwick , 'whether you have any reason to be discontented with your present situation . 
'Have you , though ? said Sam . 
Mr. Pickwick nodded in the affirmative . 
'Twelve pounds a year , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Work ? 'To attend upon me and travel about with me and these gentlemen here . 
'Take the bill down , said Sam emphatically . 
'I'm let to a single gentleman , and the terms is agreed upon . 
'You accept the situation ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'If the clothes fits me half as well as the place , they'll do . 
'You can get a character of course ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Ask the landlady o' the White Hart about that , Sir , replied Sam . 
'Can you come this evening ? 'I'll get into the clothes this minute , if they're here , said Sam , with great alacrity . 
'Call at eight this evening , said Mr. Pickwick 'and if the inquiries are satisfactory , they shall be provided . 
I looks like a sort of compo of every one on 'em . 
We are confirmed in this belief by a little circumstance , apparently slight and trivial in itself , but when considered in this point of view , not undeserving of notice . 
We will not , therefore , hazard a guess upon the subject , but will at once proceed with this history , content with the materials which its characters have provided for us . 
With these dissensions it is almost superfluous to say that everything in Eatanswill was made a party question . 
There were Blue shops and Buff shops , Blue inns and Buff inns there was a Blue aisle and a Buff aisle in the very church itself . 
Mr. Pickwick , with his usual foresight and sagacity , had chosen a peculiarly desirable moment for his visit to the borough . 
Never was such a contest known . 
The Honourable Samuel Slumkey , of Slumkey Hall , was the Blue candidate and Horatio Fizkin , Esq . 
, of Fizkin Lodge , near Eatanswill , had been prevailed upon by his friends to stand forward on the Buff interest . 
Never had such a commotion agitated the town before . 
It was late in the evening when Mr. Pickwick and his companions , assisted by Sam , dismounted from the roof of the Eatanswill coach . 
, swelled into a tremendous roar of triumph , which stopped even the red faced man in the balcony . 
'Hurrah ! shouted the mob , in conclusion . 
'One cheer more , screamed the little fugleman in the balcony , and out shouted the mob again , as if lungs were cast iron , with steel works . 
'Slumkey for ever ! roared the honest and independent . 
'Slumkey for ever ! echoed Mr. Pickwick , taking off his hat . 
'No Fizkin ! roared the crowd . 
'Certainly not ! shouted Mr. Pickwick . 
'Hurrah ! And then there was another roaring , like that of a whole menagerie when the elephant has rung the bell for the cold meat . 
'Who is Slumkey ? 'whispered Mr. Tupman . 
'I don't know , replied Mr. Pickwick , in the same tone . 
It's always best on these occasions to do what the mob do . 
'But suppose there are two mobs ? suggested Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Shout with the largest , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
Volumes could not have said more . 
They entered the house , the crowd opening right and left to let them pass , and cheering vociferously . 
The first object of consideration was to secure quarters for the night . 
'Can we have beds here ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , summoning the waiter . 
'Don't know , Sir , replied the man 'afraid we're full , sir I'll inquire , Sir . 
Away he went for that purpose , and presently returned , to ask whether the gentleman were 'Blue . 
As neither Mr. Pickwick nor his companions took any vital interest in the cause of either candidate , the question was rather a difficult one to answer . 
In this dilemma Mr. Pickwick bethought himself of his new friend , Mr. Perker . 
'Do you know a gentleman of the name of Perker ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Certainly , Sir Honourable Mr. Samuel Slumkey's agent . 
'He is Blue , I think ? 'Oh , yes , Sir . 
'Ah ah , my dear Sir , said the little man , advancing to meet him 'very happy to see you , my dear Sir , very . 
So you have carried your intention into effect . 
You have come down here to see an election eh ? Mr. Pickwick replied in the affirmative . 
'Spirited contest , my dear sir , said the little man . 
'I'm delighted to hear it , said Mr. Pickwick , rubbing his hands . 
'And what are the probabilities as to the result of the contest ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , doubtful , my dear Sir rather doubtful as yet , replied the little man . 
'Fizkin's people have got three and thirty voters in the lock up coach house at the White Hart . 
'In the coach house ! said Mr. Pickwick , considerably astonished by this second stroke of policy . 
'They keep 'em locked up there till they want 'em , resumed the little man . 
Smart fellow Fizkin's agent very smart fellow indeed . 
Mr. Pickwick stared , but said nothing . 
'We are pretty confident , though , said Mr. Perker , sinking his voice almost to a whisper . 
'We had a little tea party here , last night five and forty women , my dear sir and gave every one of 'em a green parasol when she went away . 
'A parasol ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Fact , my dear Sir , fact . 
Five and forty green parasols , at seven and sixpence a piece . 
All women like finery extraordinary the effect of those parasols . 
Secured all their husbands , and half their brothers beats stockings , and flannel , and all that sort of thing hollow . 
My idea , my dear Sir , entirely . 
Hail , rain , or sunshine , you can't walk half a dozen yards up the street , without encountering half a dozen green parasols . 
Here the little man indulged in a convulsion of mirth , which was only checked by the entrance of a third party . 
This was a tall , thin man , with a sandy coloured head inclined to baldness , and a face in which solemn importance was blended with a look of unfathomable profundity . 
He was dressed in a long brown surtout , with a black cloth waistcoat , and drab trousers . 
A double eyeglass dangled at his waistcoat and on his head he wore a very low crowned hat with a broad brim . 
The new comer was introduced to Mr. Pickwick as Mr. Pott , the editor of the Eatanswill GAZETTE . 
'Not the least doubt of it , said the little man . 
'The press is a mighty engine , sir , said Pott . 
Mr. Pickwick yielded his fullest assent to the proposition . 
'But I trust , sir , said Pott , 'that I have never abused the enormous power I wield . 
'The contest , said Pott , 'shall be prolonged so long as I have health and strength , and that portion of talent with which I am gifted . 
'Your conduct is most noble , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick and he grasped the hand of the magnanimous Pott . 
'You are , sir , I perceive , a man of sense and talent , said Mr. Pott , almost breathless with the vehemence of his patriotic declaration . 
'I am most happy , sir , to make the acquaintance of such a man . 
'And I , said Mr. Pickwick , 'feel deeply honoured by this expression of your opinion . 
Allow me , sir , to introduce you to my fellow travellers , the other corresponding members of the club I am proud to have founded . 
'I shall be delighted , said Mr. Pott . 
Mr. Pickwick withdrew , and returning with his friends , presented them in due form to the editor of the Eatanswill GAZETTE . 
'Not a spare bed in the house , my dear sir not a single bed . 
'Extremely awkward , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Very , said his fellow voyagers . 
'I have an idea upon this subject , said Mr. Pott , 'which I think may be very successfully adopted . 
Mr. Pott's domestic circle was limited to himself and his wife . 
If Mr. Pott had a weakness , it was , perhaps , that he was rather too submissive to the somewhat contemptuous control and sway of his wife . 
'My dear , said Mr. Pott , 'Mr . 
Pickwick Mr. Pickwick of London . 
my dear' said Mrs. Pott . 
'My life , said Mr. Pott . 
'Pray introduce the other gentleman . 
'I beg a thousand pardons , said Mr. Pott . 
'Permit me , Mrs. Pott , Mr. 'Winkle , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Winkle , echoed Mr. Pott and the ceremony of introduction was complete . 
'We owe you many apologies , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick , 'for disturbing your domestic arrangements at so short a notice . 
'I beg you won't mention it , sir , replied the feminine Pott , with vivacity . 
'Nobody , my dear ! exclaimed Mr. Pott archly . 
'Nobody but you , retorted Mrs. Pott , with asperity . 
My public station , as editor of the Eatanswill GAZETTE , the position which that paper holds in the country , my constant immersion in the vortex of politics 'P . 
my dear interposed Mrs. Pott . 
'My life said the editor . 
'I wish , my dear , you would endeavour to find some topic of conversation in which these gentlemen might take some rational interest . 
'But , my love , said Mr. Pott , with great humility , 'Mr . 
Pickwick does take an interest in it . 
'It's well for him if he can , said Mrs. Pott emphatically 'I am wearied out of my life with your politics , and quarrels with the INDEPENDENT , and nonsense . 
I am quite astonished , P. , at your making such an exhibition of your absurdity . 
'But , my dear said Mr. Pott . 
'Oh , nonsense , don't talk to me , said Mrs. Pott . 
'Do you play ecarte , Sir ? 'I shall be very happy to learn under your tuition , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'Well , then , draw that little table into this window , and let me get out of hearing of those prosy politics . 
'I should like to hear them very much indeed , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Up came the file , and down sat the editor , with Mr. Pickwick at his side . 
We have in vain pored over the leaves of Mr. Pickwick's note book , in the hope of meeting with a general summary of these beautiful compositions . 
The announcement of supper put a stop both to the game of ecarte , and the recapitulation of the beauties of the Eatanswill GAZETTE . 
Mrs. Pott was in the highest spirits and the most agreeable humour . 
Mr. Winkle had already made considerable progress in her good opinion , and she did not hesitate to inform him , confidentially , that Mr. Pickwick was 'a delightful old dear . 
These terms convey a familiarity of expression , in which few of those who were intimately acquainted with that colossal minded man , would have presumed to indulge . 
It was a late hour of the night long after Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass had fallen asleep in the inmost recesses of the Peacock when the two friends retired to rest . 
'Ah , said Mr. Pickwick , 'do they seem devoted to their party , Sam ? 'Never see such dewotion in my life , Sir . 
'Energetic , eh ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Uncommon , replied Sam 'I never see men eat and drink so much afore . 
I wonder they ain't afeer'd o' bustin' . 
'That's the mistaken kindness of the gentry here , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Wery likely , replied Sam briefly . 
'Fine , fresh , hearty fellows they seem , said Mr. Pickwick , glancing from the window . 
'Wery fresh , replied Sam 'me and the two waiters at the Peacock has been a pumpin' over the independent woters as supped there last night . 
'Pumping over independent voters ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
Shillin' a head the committee paid for that 'ere job . 
'Can such things be ! exclaimed the astonished Mr. Pickwick . 
'Lord bless your heart , sir , said Sam , 'why where was you half baptised ? that's nothin' , that ain't . 
'Nothing ? 'said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Nothin' at all , Sir , replied his attendant . 
'What do you mean by hocussing brandy and water ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Puttin' laud'num in it , replied Sam . 
'Blessed if she didn't send 'em all to sleep till twelve hours arter the election was over . 
'Strange practices , these , said Mr. Pickwick half speaking to himself and half addressing Sam . 
'Not half so strange as a miraculous circumstance as happened to my own father , at an election time , in this wery place , Sir , replied Sam . 
'What was that ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , he drove a coach down here once , said Sam ''lection time came on , and he was engaged by vun party to bring down woters from London . 
Pretty well , thank'ee , Sir , says the gen'l'm'n sit down , Mr. Weller pray sit down , sir . 
So my father sits down , and he and the gen'l'm'n looks wery hard at each other . 
You don't remember me ? said the gen'l'm'n . 
Can't say I do , says my father . 
Oh , I know you , says the gen'l'm'n know'd you when you was a boy , says he . 
Well , I don't remember you , says my father . 
That's wery odd , says the gen'l'm'n . 
Wery , says my father . 
You must have a bad mem'ry , Mr. Weller , says the gen'l'm'n . 
Well , it is a wery bad 'un , says my father . 
I thought so , says the gen'l'm'n . 
It's a wery bad road between this and London , says the gen'l'm'n . 
Here and there it is a heavy road , says my father . 
'Specially near the canal , I think , says the gen'l'm'n . 
Nasty bit that 'ere , says my father . 
Well , Mr. Weller , says the gen'l'm'n , you're a wery good whip , and can do what you like with your horses , we know . 
'And got out again ? inquired Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
'But brush my hat , Sam , for I hear Mr. Winkle calling me to breakfast . 
With these words Mr. Pickwick descended to the parlour , where he found breakfast laid , and the family already assembled . 
The stable yard exhibited unequivocal symptoms of the glory and strength of the Eatanswill Blues . 
There were bodies of constables with blue staves , twenty committee men with blue scarfs , and a mob of voters with blue cockades . 
There were electors on horseback and electors afoot . 
'Is everything ready ? said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey to Mr. Perker . 
'Everything , my dear Sir , was the little man's reply . 
'Nothing has been omitted , I hope ? said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey . 
'Nothing has been left undone , my dear sir nothing whatever . 
'I'll take care , said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey . 
'Wouldn't it have as good an effect if the proposer or seconder did that ? said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey . 
'Why , I am afraid it wouldn't , replied the agent 'if it were done by yourself , my dear Sir , I think it would make you very popular . 
'Very well , said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey , with a resigned air , 'then it must be done . 
'Arrange the procession , cried the twenty committee men . 
There was a moment of awful suspense as the procession waited for the Honourable Samuel Slumkey to step into his carriage . 
Suddenly the crowd set up a great cheering . 
'He has come out , said little Mr. Perker , greatly excited the more so as their position did not enable them to see what was going forward . 
Another cheer , much louder . 
'He has shaken hands with the men , cried the little agent . 
Another cheer , far more vehement . 
'He has patted the babies on the head , said Mr. Perker , trembling with anxiety . 
A roar of applause that rent the air . 
'He has kissed one of 'em ! exclaimed the delighted little man . 
'He has kissed another , gasped the excited manager . 
'He's kissing 'em all ! screamed the enthusiastic little gentleman , and hailed by the deafening shouts of the multitude , the procession moved on . 
'There's Winkle , said Mr. Tupman , pulling his friend by the sleeve . 
'Where ! said Mr. Pickwick , putting on his spectacles , which he had fortunately kept in his pocket hitherto . 
'There , said Mr. Tupman , 'on the top of that house . 
The proceedings had not yet commenced and as an inactive crowd is generally disposed to be jocose , this very innocent action was sufficient to awaken their facetiousness . 
'Oh , you wicked old rascal , cried one voice , 'looking arter the girls , are you ? 'Oh , you wenerable sinner , cried another . 
'Putting on his spectacles to look at a married 'ooman ! said a third . 
'I see him a winkin' at her , with his wicked old eye , shouted a fourth . 
'Look arter your wife , Pott , bellowed a fifth and then there was a roar of laughter . 
'Silence ! roared the mayor's attendants . 
'Whiffin , proclaim silence , said the mayor , with an air of pomp befitting his lofty station . 
In obedience to this command the crier performed another concerto on the bell , whereupon a gentleman in the crowd called out 'Muffins' which occasioned another laugh . 
'Gentlemen , said the mayor , at as loud a pitch as he could possibly force his voice to 'gentlemen . 
Brother electors of the borough of Eatanswill . 
We are met here to day for the purpose of choosing a representative in the room of our late Here the mayor was interrupted by a voice in the crowd . 
'Suc cess to the mayor ! cried the voice , 'and may he never desert the nail and sarspan business , as he got his money by . 
The speeches of the two candidates , though differing in every other respect , afforded a beautiful tribute to the merit and high worth of the electors of Eatanswill . 
Fizkin expressed his readiness to do anything he was wanted Slumkey , his determination to do nothing that was asked of him . 
There was a show of hands the mayor decided in favour of the Honourable Samuel Slumkey , of Slumkey Hall . 
Horatio Fizkin , Esquire , of Fizkin Lodge , demanded a poll , and a poll was fixed accordingly . 
The processions reformed , the carriages rolled slowly through the crowd , and its members screeched and shouted after them as their feelings or caprice dictated . 
During the whole time of the polling , the town was in a perpetual fever of excitement . 
Everything was conducted on the most liberal and delightful scale . 
A small body of electors remained unpolled on the very last day . 
They were calculating and reflecting persons , who had not yet been convinced by the arguments of either party , although they had frequent conferences with each . 
One hour before the close of the poll , Mr. Perker solicited the honour of a private interview with these intelligent , these noble , these patriotic men . 
His arguments were brief but satisfactory . 
They went in a body to the poll and when they returned , the Honourable Samuel Slumkey , of Slumkey Hall , was returned also . 
The two gentlemen being thus completely domesticated in the editor's house , Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass were in a great measure cast upon their own resources . 
It was in the evening , however , that the Peacock presented attractions which enabled the two friends to resist even the invitations of the gifted , though prosy , Pott . 
Most people know what sort of places commercial rooms usually are . 
The walls were garnished with one or two large maps and several weather beaten rough greatcoats , with complicated capes , dangled from a long row of pegs in one corner . 
Here it was that Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass were seated on the evening after the conclusion of the election , with several other temporary inmates of the house , smoking and drinking . 
I always propose that toast to the company , and drink Mary to myself . 
Eh , Mary ! 'Get along with you , you wretch , said the hand maiden , obviously not ill pleased with the compliment , however . 
'Don't go away , Mary , said the black eyed man . 
'Let me alone , imperence , said the young lady . 
'Never mind , said the one eyed man , calling after the girl as she left the room . 
'I'll step out by and by , Mary . 
Keep your spirits up , dear . 
'Rum creeters is women , said the dirty faced man , after a pause . 
'Ah ! no mistake about that , said a very red faced man , behind a cigar . 
After this little bit of philosophy there was another pause . 
'There's rummer things than women in this world though , mind you , said the man with the black eye , slowly filling a large Dutch pipe , with a most capacious bowl . 
'Are you married ? inquired the dirty faced man . 
'Women , after all , gentlemen , said the enthusiastic Mr. Snodgrass , 'are the great props and comforts of our existence . 
'So they are , said the placid gentleman . 
'When they're in a good humour , interposed the dirty faced man . 
'And that's very true , said the placid one . 
'I repudiate that qualification , said Mr. Snodgrass , whose thoughts were fast reverting to Emily Wardle . 
'I repudiate it with disdain with indignation . 
Show me the man who says anything against women , as women , and I boldly declare he is not a man . 
And Mr. Snodgrass took his cigar from his mouth , and struck the table violently with his clenched fist . 
'That's good sound argument , said the placid man . 
'Containing a position which I deny , interrupted he of the dirty countenance . 
'And there's certainly a very great deal of truth in what you observe too , Sir , said the placid gentleman . 
'Your health , Sir , said the bagman with the lonely eye , bestowing an approving nod on Mr. Snodgrass . 
Mr. Snodgrass acknowledged the compliment . 
'I should like to hear that same story , said the red faced man with the cigar . 
'Should you ? was the only reply of the bagman , who continued to smoke with great vehemence . 
'So should I , said Mr. Tupman , speaking for the first time . 
He was always anxious to increase his stock of experience . 
'Should YOU ? Well then , I'll tell it . 
I know you won't believe it , said the man with the roguish eye , making that organ look more roguish than ever . 
'If you say it's true , of course I shall , said Mr. Tupman . 
'Well , upon that understanding I'll tell you , replied the traveller . 
'Did you ever hear of the great commercial house of Bilson Slum ? But it doesn't matter though , whether you did or not , because they retired from business long since . 
It's eighty years ago , since the circumstance happened to a traveller for that house , but he was a particular friend of my uncle's and my uncle told the story to me . 
It's a queer name but he used to call it THE BAGMAN'S STORY and he used to tell it , something in this way . 
I can't say all I know is , that Tom Smart said so or at least he always told my uncle he said so , and it's just the same thing . 
'Blow me , says Tom Smart and the mare neighed as if she were precisely of the same opinion . 
'Cheer up , old girl , said Tom , patting the bay mare on the neck with the end of his whip . 
It won't do pushing on , such a night as this the first house we come to we'll put up at , so the faster you go the sooner it's over . 
Soho , old girl gently gently . 
'Tom cast a hasty glance at the upper part of the house as he threw the reins to the hostler , and stuck the whip in the box . 
Marking these little evidences with the eye of an experienced traveller , Tom dismounted with as much agility as his half frozen limbs would permit , and entered the house . 
Confound his impudence ! said Tom to himself , what business has he in that snug bar ? Such an ugly villain too ! said Tom . 
If the widow had any taste , she might surely pick up some better fellow than that . 
'Tom Smart , gentlemen , had always been very much attached to the public line . 
It had been long his ambition to stand in a bar of his own , in a green coat , knee cords , and tops . 
He sat down before the fire , and stared at the old chair for half an hour . 
Damn the chair , it was such a strange old thing , he couldn't take his eyes off it . 
Very odd , said Tom , who had got rather sage with the hot punch 'very odd . 
Tom shook his head with an air of profound wisdom , and looked at the chair again . 
He couldn't make anything of it though , so he got into bed , covered himself up warm , and fell asleep . 
I won't look at it any more , said Tom to himself , and he squeezed his eyelids together , and tried to persuade himself he was going to sleep again . 
No use nothing but queer chairs danced before his eyes , kicking up their legs , jumping over each other's backs , and playing all kinds of antics . 
'I may as well see one real chair , as two or three complete sets of false ones , said Tom , bringing out his head from under the bedclothes . 
There it was , plainly discernible by the light of the fire , looking as provoking as ever . 
'Tom gazed at the chair and , suddenly as he looked at it , a most extraordinary change seemed to come over it . 
Tom sat up in bed , and rubbed his eyes to dispel the illusion . 
No. The chair was an ugly old gentleman and what was more , he was winking at Tom Smart . 
He stopped winking though , when Tom spoke , and began grinning like a superannuated monkey . 
How do you know my name , old nut cracker face ? inquired Tom Smart , rather staggered though he pretended to carry it off so well . 
Come , come , Tom , said the old gentleman , that's not the way to address solid Spanish mahogany . 
Damme , you couldn't treat me with less respect if I was veneered . 
When the old gentleman said this , he looked so fierce that Tom began to grow frightened . 
I didn't mean to treat you with any disrespect , Sir , said Tom , in a much humbler tone than he had spoken in at first . 
Well , well , said the old fellow , perhaps not perhaps not . 
Tom sir I know everything about you , Tom everything . 
You're very poor , Tom . 
I certainly am , said Tom Smart . 
But how came you to know that ? Never mind that , said the old gentleman you're much too fond of punch , Tom . 
Are you ? inquired Tom Smart . 
I knew her mother , Tom , said the old fellow and her grandmother . 
She was very fond of me made me this waistcoat , Tom . 
Did she ? said Tom Smart . 
And these shoes , said the old fellow , lifting up one of the red cloth mufflers but don't mention it , Tom . 
I shouldn't like to have it known that she was so much attached to me . 
It might occasion some unpleasantness in the family . 
When the old rascal said this , he looked so extremely impertinent , that , as Tom Smart afterwards declared , he could have sat upon him without remorse . 
I have been a great favourite among the women in my time , Tom , said the profligate old debauchee hundreds of fine women have sat in my lap for hours together . 
Just serves you right , old boy , thought Tom Smart but he didn't say anything . 
Ah ! said the old fellow , I am a good deal troubled with this now . 
I am getting old , Tom , and have lost nearly all my rails . 
I have had an operation performed , too a small piece let into my back and I found it a severe trial , Tom . 
I dare say you did , Sir , said Tom Smart . 
However , said the old gentleman , that's not the point . 
Tom ! I want you to marry the widow . 
Me , Sir ! said Tom . 
You , said the old gentleman . 
bless your reverend locks , she wouldn't have me . 
And Tom sighed involuntarily , as he thought of the bar . 
Wouldn't she ? said the old gentleman firmly . 
No , no , said Tom there's somebody else in the wind . 
A tall man a confoundedly tall man with black whiskers . 
Tom , said the old gentleman she will never have him . 
Won't she ? said Tom . 
If you stood in the bar , old gentleman , you'd tell another story . 
Pooh , pooh , said the old gentleman . 
I know all about that . 
About what ? said Tom . 
The kissing behind the door , and all that sort of thing , Tom , said the old gentleman . 
I know all about that , Tom , said the old gentleman . 
I have seen it done very often in my time , Tom , between more people than I should like to mention to you but it never came to anything after all . 
You must have seen some queer things , said Tom , with an inquisitive look . 
You may say that , Tom , replied the old fellow , with a very complicated wink . 
I am the last of my family , Tom , said the old gentleman , with a melancholy sigh . 
Was it a large one ? inquired Tom Smart . 
There were twelve of us , Tom , said the old gentleman fine , straight backed , handsome fellows as you'd wish to see . 
And what's become of the others , Sir ? asked Tom Smart 'The old gentleman applied his elbow to his eye as he replied , Gone , Tom , gone . 
We had hard service , Tom , and they hadn't all my constitution . 
Shocking thing that , Tom . 
Dreadful ! said Tom Smart . 
'The old fellow paused for a few minutes , apparently struggling with his feelings of emotion , and then said However , Tom , I am wandering from the point . 
This tall man , Tom , is a rascally adventurer . 
The moment he married the widow , he would sell off all the furniture , and run away . 
What would be the consequence ? She would be deserted and reduced to ruin , and I should catch my death of cold in some broker's shop . 
Yes , but Don't interrupt me , said the old gentleman . 
I am very much obliged to you for your good opinion , Sir , said Tom Smart . 
Therefore , resumed the old gentleman , in a dictatorial tone , you shall have her , and he shall not . 
What is to prevent it ? said Tom Smart eagerly . 
This disclosure , replied the old gentleman he is already married . 
How can I prove it ? said Tom , starting half out of bed . 
'The old gentleman untucked his arm from his side , and having pointed to one of the oaken presses , immediately replaced it , in its old position . 
'As the old gentleman solemnly uttered these words , his features grew less and less distinct , and his figure more shadowy . 
A film came over Tom Smart's eyes . 
The old man seemed gradually blending into the chair , the damask waistcoat to resolve into a cushion , the red slippers to shrink into little red cloth bags . 
The light faded gently away , and Tom Smart fell back on his pillow , and dropped asleep . 
'Morning aroused Tom from the lethargic slumber , into which he had fallen on the disappearance of the old man . 
He sat up in bed , and for some minutes vainly endeavoured to recall the events of the preceding night . 
Suddenly they rushed upon him . 
How are you , old boy ? said Tom . 
He was bolder in the daylight most men are . 
'The chair remained motionless , and spoke not a word . 
Miserable morning , said Tom . 
No. The chair would not be drawn into conversation . 
Which press did you point to ? you can tell me that , said Tom . 
Devil a word , gentlemen , the chair would say . 
It's not much trouble to open it , anyhow , said Tom , getting out of bed very deliberately . 
He walked up to one of the presses . 
The key was in the lock he turned it , and opened the door . 
There was a pair of trousers there . 
Very queer , said Tom . 
The tall man was standing in the snug little bar , with his hands behind him , quite at home . 
He grinned vacantly at Tom . 
Tom laughed in his face and summoned the landlady . 
Good morning ma'am , said Tom Smart , closing the door of the little parlour as the widow entered . 
Good morning , Sir , said the widow . 
What will you take for breakfast , sir ? 'Tom was thinking how he should open the case , so he made no answer . 
There's a very nice ham , said the widow , and a beautiful cold larded fowl . 
Shall I send 'em in , Sir ? 'These words roused Tom from his reflections . 
His admiration of the widow increased as she spoke . 
Thoughtful creature ! Comfortable provider ! Who is that gentleman in the bar , ma'am ? inquired Tom . 
His name is Jinkins , Sir , said the widow , slightly blushing . 
He's a tall man , said Tom . 
He is a very fine man , Sir , replied the widow , and a very nice gentleman . 
Is there anything more you want , Sir ? inquired the widow , rather puzzled by Tom's manner . 
Why , yes , said Tom . 
My dear ma'am , said Tom Smart he had always a great notion of committing the amiable my dear ma'am , you deserve a very excellent husband you do indeed . 
Lor , Sir ! I scorn to flatter , my dear ma'am , said Tom Smart . 
You deserve a very admirable husband , and whoever he is , he'll be a very lucky man . 
As Tom said this , his eye involuntarily wandered from the widow's face to the comfort around him . 
'The widow looked more puzzled than ever , and made an effort to rise . 
Tom gently pressed her hand , as if to detain her , and she kept her seat . 
Widows , gentlemen , are not usually timorous , as my uncle used to say . 
IF 'Well , said the widow , laughing outright this time , WHEN I do , I hope I shall have as good a husband as you describe . 
Jinkins , to wit , said Tom . 
Lor , sir ! exclaimed the widow . 
Oh , don't tell me , said Tom , I know him . 
I am sure nobody who knows him , knows anything bad of him , said the widow , bridling up at the mysterious air with which Tom had spoken . 
Hem ! said Tom Smart . 
I'll say it to him fast enough , said Tom , only I want you to hear it first . 
What is it ? inquired the widow , looking intently in Tom's countenance . 
I'll astonish you , said Tom , putting his hand in his pocket . 
If it is , that he wants money , said the widow , I know that already , and you needn't trouble yourself . 
Pooh , nonsense , that's nothing , said Tom Smart , I want money . 
Oh , dear , what can it be ? exclaimed the poor widow . 
Don't be frightened , said Tom Smart . 
He slowly drew forth the letter , and unfolded it . 
You won't scream ? said Tom doubtfully . 
No , no , replied the widow let me see it . 
You won't go fainting away , or any of that nonsense ? said Tom . 
No , no , returned the widow hastily . 
And don't run out , and blow him up , said Tom because I'll do all that for you . 
You had better not exert yourself . 
Well , well , said the widow , let me see it . 
I will , replied Tom Smart and , with these words , he placed the letter in the widow's hand . 
'Gentlemen , I have heard my uncle say , that Tom Smart said the widow's lamentations when she heard the disclosure would have pierced a heart of stone . 
Tom was certainly very tender hearted , but they pierced his , to the very core . 
The widow rocked herself to and fro , and wrung her hands . 
Oh , the deception and villainy of the man ! said the widow . 
Frightful , my dear ma'am but compose yourself , said Tom Smart . 
Oh , I can't compose myself , shrieked the widow . 
Tom Smart , in the energy of his compassion , had put his arm round the widow's waist and the widow , in a passion of grief , had clasped Tom's hand . 
She looked up in Tom's face , and smiled through her tears . 
Tom looked down in hers , and smiled through his . 
'I never could find out , gentlemen , whether Tom did or did not kiss the widow at that particular moment . 
He used to tell my uncle he didn't , but I have my doubts about it . 
Between ourselves , gentlemen , I rather think he did . 
'At all events , Tom kicked the very tall man out at the front door half an hour later , and married the widow a month after . 
He rather thought it was the latter , though , for it never spoke afterwards . 
'Everybody believed the story , didn't they ? said the dirty faced man , refilling his pipe . 
'Except Tom's enemies , replied the bagman . 
'Some of 'em said Tom invented it altogether and others said he was drunk and fancied it , and got hold of the wrong trousers by mistake before he went to bed . 
But nobody ever minded what THEY said . 
'Tom Smart said it was all true ? 'Every word . 
'And your uncle ? 'Every letter . 
'They must have been very nice men , both of 'em , said the dirty faced man . 
'Person's a waitin' , said Sam , epigrammatically . 
'Does the person want me , Sam ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'He wants you partickler and no one else 'll do , as the devil's private secretary said ven he fetched avay Doctor Faustus , replied Mr. Weller . 
Is it a gentleman ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'A wery good imitation o' one , if it ain't , replied Mr. Weller . 
'But this is a lady's card , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Given me by a gen'l'm'n , howsoever , replied Sam , 'and he's a waitin' in the drawing room said he'd rather wait all day , than not see you . 
Pickwick , I presume ? 'The same . 
'Allow me , Sir , the honour of grasping your hand . 
Permit me , Sir , to shake it , said the grave man . 
'Certainly , said Mr. Pickwick . 
The stranger shook the extended hand , and then continued 'We have heard of your fame , sir . 
Permit me , sir , to place in a conspicuous part of the list the name of Mr. Pickwick , and his brother members of the club that derives its name from him . 
'I shall be extremely happy to make the acquaintance of such a lady , sir , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'You SHALL make it , sir , said the grave man . 
'To morrow morning , sir , we give a public breakfast a FETE CHAMPETRE to a great number of those who have rendered themselves celebrated by their works and talents . 
Permit Mrs. Leo Hunter , Sir , to have the gratification of seeing you at the Den . 
'With great pleasure , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Was HE celebrated for his works and talents ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'He was Sir , replied the grave man , 'all Mrs. Leo Hunter's acquaintances are it is her ambition , sir , to have no other acquaintance . 
'It is a very noble ambition , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'When I inform Mrs. Leo Hunter , that that remark fell from your lips , sir , she will indeed be proud , said the grave man . 
'You have a gentleman in your train , who has produced some beautiful little poems , I think , sir . 
'My friend Mr. Snodgrass has a great taste for poetry , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'So has Mrs. Leo Hunter , Sir . 
She dotes on poetry , sir . 
She adores it I may say that her whole soul and mind are wound up , and entwined with it . 
She has produced some delightful pieces , herself , sir . 
You may have met with her Ode to an Expiring Frog , sir . 
'I don't think I have , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'You astonish me , Sir , said Mr. Leo Hunter . 
'It created an immense sensation . 
It was signed with an L and eight stars , and appeared originally in a lady's magazine . 
It commenced Can I view thee panting , lying On thy stomach , without sighing Can I unmoved see thee dying On a log Expiring frog ! 'Beautiful ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Fine , said Mr. Leo Hunter 'so simple . 
'Very , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'The next verse is still more touching . 
Shall I repeat it ? 'If you please , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'It runs thus , said the grave man , still more gravely . 
'All point , Sir , said Mr. Leo Hunter 'but you shall hear Mrs. Leo Hunter repeat it . 
She can do justice to it , Sir . 
She will repeat it , in character , Sir , to morrow morning . 
'In character ! 'As Minerva . 
But I forgot it's a fancy dress DEJEUNE . 
'Dear me , said Mr. Pickwick , glancing at his own figure 'I can't possibly 'Can't , sir can't ! exclaimed Mr. Leo Hunter . 
'Solomon Lucas , the Jew in the High Street , has thousands of fancy dresses . 
Consider , Sir , how many appropriate characters are open for your selection . 
Plato , Zeno , Epicurus , Pythagoras all founders of clubs . 
'I know that , said Mr. Pickwick 'but as I cannot put myself in competition with those great men , I cannot presume to wear their dresses . 
I may venture to promise an exception in your case , sir yes , I am quite certain that , on behalf of Mrs. Leo Hunter , I may venture to do so . 
'In that case , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I shall have great pleasure in coming . 
'But I waste your time , Sir , said the grave man , as if suddenly recollecting himself . 
'I know its value , sir . 
I will not detain you . 
And without giving Mr. Pickwick time to offer remonstrance or denial , Mr. Leo Hunter stalked gravely away . 
Mr. Pickwick took up his hat , and repaired to the Peacock , but Mr. Winkle had conveyed the intelligence of the fancy ball there , before him . 
Pott's going , were the first words with which he saluted his leader . 
'Is she ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'As Apollo , replied Winkle . 
'Only Pott objects to the tunic . 
He is quite right , said Mr. Pickwick emphatically . 
'Yes so she's going to wear a white satin gown with gold spangles . 
'They'll hardly know what she's meant for will they ? inquired Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Of course they will , replied Mr. Winkle indignantly . 
'They'll see her lyre , won't they ? 'True I forgot that , said Mr. Snodgrass . 
'I shall go as a bandit , 'interposed Mr. Tupman . 
'What ! said Mr. Pickwick , with a sudden start . 
'As a bandit , repeated Mr. Tupman , mildly . 
'And why not , sir ? 'Because , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , considerably excited 'because you are too old , Sir . 
'Too old ! exclaimed Mr. Tupman . 
'And if any further ground of objection be wanting , continued Mr. Pickwick , 'you are too fat , sir . 
'Sir , said Mr. Tupman , his face suffused with a crimson glow , 'this is an insult . 
'Sir , said Mr. Tupman , 'you're a fellow . 
'Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , 'you're another ! Mr. Tupman advanced a step or two , and glared at Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick returned the glare , concentrated into a focus by means of his spectacles , and breathed a bold defiance . 
Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle looked on , petrified at beholding such a scene between two such men . 
'Sir , said Mr. Tupman , after a short pause , speaking in a low , deep voice , 'you have called me old . 
'I have , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'So you are ! There was a fearful pause . 
'Come on , Sir ! replied Mr. Pickwick . 
His countenance had resumed its usual benign expression , ere he concluded . 
'I have been hasty , said Mr. Pickwick , 'very hasty . 
The dark shadow passed from Mr. Tupman's face , as he warmly grasped the hand of his friend . 
'I have been hasty , too , said he . 
'No , no , interrupted Mr. Pickwick , 'the fault was mine . 
You will wear the green velvet jacket ? 'No , no , replied Mr. Tupman . 
'To oblige me , you will , resumed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well , well , I will , said Mr. Tupman . 
It was accordingly settled that Mr. Tupman , Mr. Winkle , and Mr. Snodgrass , should all wear fancy dresses . 
Mr. Leo Hunter had not exaggerated the resources of Mr. Solomon Lucas . 
to have been the regular , authentic , everyday costume of a troubadour , from the earliest ages down to the time of their final disappearance from the face of the earth . 
'Bravo ! shouted Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass from the passage , when they beheld the walking allegory . 
'Bravo ! Mr. Pickwick was heard to exclaim , from the passage . 
'Hoo roar Pott ! shouted the populace . 
being stationed on the box of that in which his master was seated . 
Never were such shouts heard as those which greeted Mr. Tupman's efforts to fix the sugar loaf hat on his head , by way of entering the garden in style . 
The grounds were more than an acre and a quarter in extent , and they were filled with people ! Never was such a blaze of beauty , and fashion , and literature . 
There were hosts of these geniuses , and any reasonable person would have thought it honour enough to meet them . 
Pickwick , ma'am , said a servant , as that gentleman approached the presiding goddess , with his hat in his hand , and the brigand and troubadour on either arm . 
'What ! Where ! exclaimed Mrs. Leo Hunter , starting up , in an affected rapture of surprise . 
'Here , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Is it possible that I have really the gratification of beholding Mr. Pickwick himself ! ejaculated Mrs. Leo Hunter . 
'No other , ma'am , replied Mr. Pickwick , bowing very low . 
'Permit me to introduce my friends Mr. Tupman Mr. Winkle Mr. Snodgrass to the authoress of The Expiring Frog . 
Never were such distortions as Mr. Tupman's frame underwent in his efforts to appear easy and graceful never was such ingenious posturing , as his fancy dressed friends exhibited . 
Pickwick , said Mrs. Leo Hunter , 'I must make you promise not to stir from my side the whole day . 
There are hundreds of people here , that I must positively introduce you to . 
'You are very kind , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'They are very beautiful , said Mr. Pickwick , as the juveniles turned away , after being presented . 
'They are very like their mamma , Sir , said Mr. Pott , majestically . 
'Oh , you naughty man , exclaimed Mrs. Leo Hunter , playfully tapping the editor's arm with her fan . 
'Well , and if they did , why need you repeat it , before strangers ? said Mrs. Leo Hunter , bestowing another tap on the slumbering lion of the Eatanswill GAZETTE . 
'Count , count , screamed Mrs. Leo Hunter to a well whiskered individual in a foreign uniform , who was passing by . 
'Ah ! you want me ? said the count , turning back . 
'I want to introduce two very clever people to each other , said Mrs. Leo Hunter . 
Pickwick , I have great pleasure in introducing you to Count Smorltork . 
She added in a hurried whisper to Mr. Pickwick 'The famous foreigner gathering materials for his great work on England hem ! Count Smorltork , Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick saluted the count with all the reverence due to so great a man , and the count drew forth a set of tablets . 
'No , no , count , said the lady , 'Pick wick . 
'Ah , ah , I see , replied the count . 
'Peek christian name Weeks surname good , ver good . 
How you do , Weeks ? 'Quite well , I thank you , replied Mr. Pickwick , with all his usual affability . 
'Have you been long in England ? 'Long ver long time fortnight more . 
'Do you stay here long ? 'One week . 
'You will have enough to do , said Mr. Pickwick smiling , 'to gather all the materials you want in that time . 
'Eh , they are gathered , said the count . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'They are here , added the count , tapping his forehead significantly . 
'Large book at home full of notes music , picture , science , potry , poltic all tings . 
'The word politics , sir , said Mr. Pickwick , 'comprises in itself , a difficult study of no inconsiderable magnitude . 
'Ah ! said the count , drawing out the tablets again , 'ver good fine words to begin a chapter . 
'Count , said Mrs. Leo Hunter . 
Hunt , replied the count . 
'This is Mr. Snodgrass , a friend of Mr. Pickwick's , and a poet . 
'Stop , exclaimed the count , bringing out the tablets once more . 
'Head , potry chapter , literary friends name , Snowgrass ver good . 
Introduced to Snowgrass great poet , friend of Peek Weeks by Mrs. Hunt , which wrote other sweet poem what is that name ? Fog Perspiring Fog ver good ver good indeed . 
'Wonderful man , Count Smorltork , said Mrs. Leo Hunter . 
'Sound philosopher , said Mr. Pott . 
'Clear headed , strong minded person , added Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Where is Mr. Pott ? said Mrs. Leo Hunter , as she placed the aforesaid lions around her . 
'Here I am , said the editor , from the remotest end of the room far beyond all hope of food , unless something was done for him by the hostess . 
You'll do very well there , won't you dear ? 'Certainly love , replied the unhappy Pott , with a grim smile . 
Alas for the knout ! The nervous arm that wielded it , with such a gigantic force on public characters , was paralysed beneath the glance of the imperious Mrs. Pott . 
Mrs. Leo Hunter looked round her in triumph . 
'Oh dear , said Mrs. Leo Hunter , 'how anxiously I have been expecting him . 
Pray make room , to let Mr. Fitz Marshall pass . 
Tell Mr. Fitz Marshall , my dear , to come up to me directly , to be scolded for coming so late . 
'Coming , my dear ma'am , cried a voice , 'as quick as I can crowds of people full room hard work very . 
Mr. Pickwick's knife and fork fell from his hand . 
He stared across the table at Mr. Tupman , who had dropped his knife and fork , and was looking as if he were about to sink into the ground without further notice . 
The offender had barely time to take Mrs. Leo Hunter's proffered hand , when his eyes encountered the indignant orbs of Mr. Pickwick . 
'Quite forgot no directions to postillion give 'em at once back in a minute . 
'The servant , or Mr. Hunter will do it in a moment , Mr. Fitz Marshall , said Mrs. Leo Hunter . 
'No , no I'll do it shan't be long back in no time , replied Jingle . 
With these words he disappeared among the crowd . 
The count will be delighted with him . 
'Yes , yes , said Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
'His residence 'Is at present at the Angel at Bury . 
'At Bury ? 'At Bury St . 
Edmunds , not many miles from here . 
'It's of no use , said Mr. Tupman . 
'I know it , said Mr. Pickwick , 'and I will follow him . 
'Follow him ! Where ? inquired Mr. Tupman . 
'To the Angel at Bury , replied Mr. Pickwick , speaking very quickly . 
'How do we know whom he is deceiving there ? He deceived a worthy man once , and we were the innocent cause . 
'Here's your servant , Sir . 
Proud o' the title , as the living skellinton said , ven they show'd him . 
'Follow me instantly , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Tupman , if I stay at Bury , you can join me there , when I write . 
Till then , good bye ! Remonstrances were useless . 
Mr. Pickwick was roused , and his mind was made up . 
CHAPTER XVI TOO FULL OF ADVENTURE TO BE BRIEFLY DESCRIBED There is no month in the whole year in which nature wears a more beautiful appearance than in the month of August . 
Spring has many beauties , and May is a fresh and blooming month , but the charms of this time of year are enhanced by their contrast with the winter season . 
August has no such advantage . 
You cast a look behind you , as you turn a corner of the road . 
The women and children have resumed their labour the reaper once more stoops to his work the cart horses have moved on and all are again in motion . 
The influence of a scene like this , was not lost upon the well regulated mind of Mr. Pickwick . 
'Delightful prospect , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Beats the chimbley pots , Sir , replied Mr. Weller , touching his hat . 
'I suppose you have hardly seen anything but chimney pots and bricks and mortar all your life , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , smiling . 
'I worn't always a boots , sir , said Mr. Weller , with a shake of the head . 
'I wos a vaginer's boy , once . 
'When was that ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'When I wos first pitched neck and crop into the world , to play at leap frog with its troubles , replied Sam . 
'I wos a carrier's boy at startin' then a vaginer's , then a helper , then a boots . 
Now I'm a gen'l'm'n's servant . 
I shall be a gen'l'm'n myself one of these days , perhaps , with a pipe in my mouth , and a summer house in the back garden . 
Who knows ? I shouldn't be surprised for one . 
'You are quite a philosopher , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'It runs in the family , I b'lieve , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'My father's wery much in that line now . 
If my mother in law blows him up , he whistles . 
She flies in a passion , and breaks his pipe he steps out , and gets another . 
Then she screams wery loud , and falls into 'sterics and he smokes wery comfortably till she comes to agin . 
That's philosophy , Sir , ain't it ? 'A very good substitute for it , at all events , replied Mr. Pickwick , laughing . 
'It must have been of great service to you , in the course of your rambling life , Sam . 
'Service , sir , exclaimed Sam . 
Arter I run away from the carrier , and afore I took up with the vaginer , I had unfurnished lodgin's for a fortnight . 
'Unfurnished lodgings ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Yes the dry arches of Waterloo Bridge . 
Fine sleeping place vithin ten minutes' walk of all the public offices only if there is any objection to it , it is that the sitivation's rayther too airy . 
I see some queer sights there . 
'Ah , I suppose you did , said Mr. Pickwick , with an air of considerable interest . 
'Sights , sir , resumed Mr. Weller , 'as 'ud penetrate your benevolent heart , and come out on the other side . 
You don't see the reg'lar wagrants there trust 'em , they knows better than that . 
'And pray , Sam , what is the twopenny rope ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'The twopenny rope , sir , replied Mr. Weller , 'is just a cheap lodgin' house , where the beds is twopence a night . 
'What do they call a bed a rope for ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Bless your innocence , sir , that ain't it , replied Sam . 
'Well , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well , said Mr. Weller , 'the adwantage o' the plan's hobvious . 
At six o'clock every mornin' they let's go the ropes at one end , and down falls the lodgers . 
Edmunds ? 'It is , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'And this , said Mr. Pickwick , looking up . 
'Is the Angel ! We alight here , Sam . 
But some caution is necessary . 
Order a private room , and do not mention my name . 
A private room was speedily engaged and into it Mr. Pickwick was ushered without delay . 
'Now , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'the first thing to be done is to 'Order dinner , Sir , interposed Mr. Weller . 
'It's wery late , sir . 
'Ah , so it is , said Mr. Pickwick , looking at his watch . 
'You are right , Sam . 
'And if I might adwise , Sir , added Mr. Weller , 'I'd just have a good night's rest arterwards , and not begin inquiring arter this here deep 'un till the mornin' . 
There's nothin' so refreshen' as sleep , sir , as the servant girl said afore she drank the egg cupful of laudanum . 
'I think you are right , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'But I must first ascertain that he is in the house , and not likely to go away . 
'Leave that to me , Sir , said Sam . 
'Do so , said Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Weller at once retired . 
He was going to spend the evening at some private house in the neighbourhood , had ordered the boots to sit up until his return , and had taken his servant with him . 
'How do you know that ? interposed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Bless your heart , sir , servants always do , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Oh , ah , I forgot that , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Then you can arrange what's best to be done , sir , and we can act accordingly . 
As it appeared that this was the best arrangement that could be made , it was finally agreed upon . 
'You're a rum 'un ! thought Mr. Weller and thinking this , he went on washing himself , and thought no more about him . 
Still the man kept glancing from his hymn book to Sam , and from Sam to his hymn book , as if he wanted to open a conversation . 
'I hope you are the same , Sir ? 'Why , if I felt less like a walking brandy bottle I shouldn't be quite so staggery this mornin' , replied Sam . 
'Are you stoppin' in this house , old 'un ? The mulberry man replied in the affirmative . 
'How was it you worn't one of us , last night ? inquired Sam , scrubbing his face with the towel . 
'You seem one of the jolly sort looks as conwivial as a live trout in a lime basket , added Mr. Weller , in an undertone . 
'I was out last night with my master , replied the stranger . 
'What's his name ? inquired Mr. Weller , colouring up very red with sudden excitement , and the friction of the towel combined . 
'Fitz Marshall , said the mulberry man . 
'Give us your hand , said Mr. Weller , advancing 'I should like to know you . 
I like your appearance , old fellow . 
'Well , that is very strange , said the mulberry man , with great simplicity of manner . 
'I like yours so much , that I wanted to speak to you , from the very first moment I saw you under the pump . 
'Did you though ? 'Upon my word . 
Now , isn't that curious ? 'Wery sing'ler , said Sam , inwardly congratulating himself upon the softness of the stranger . 
'What's your name , my patriarch ? 'Job . 
'And a wery good name it is only one I know that ain't got a nickname to it . 
What's the other name ? 'Trotter , said the stranger . 
'What is yours ? Sam bore in mind his master's caution , and replied 'My name's Walker my master's name's Wilkins . 
'And what sort of a place have you got ? inquired Sam , as he filled his companion's glass , for the second time . 
'Bad , said Job , smacking his lips , 'very bad . 
'You don't mean that ? said Sam . 
Worse than that , my master's going to be married . 
'Yes and worse than that , too , he's going to run away with an immense rich heiress , from boarding school . 
'What a dragon ! said Sam , refilling his companion's glass . 
considered himself as undergoing the process of being pumped by Mr. Samuel Weller . 
'No , no , said Mr. Trotter , in conclusion , 'that's not to be told to everybody . 
That is a secret a great secret , Mr. Walker . 
As the mulberry man said this , he turned his glass upside down , by way of reminding his companion that he had nothing left wherewith to slake his thirst . 
Sam observed the hint and feeling the delicate manner in which it was conveyed , ordered the pewter vessel to be refilled , whereat the small eyes of the mulberry man glistened . 
'And so it's a secret ? said Sam . 
'I should rather suspect it was , said the mulberry man , sipping his liquor , with a complacent face . 
'i suppose your mas'r's wery rich ? said Sam . 
'Ah , said Sam , 'that's the game , is it ? The mulberry man nodded significantly . 
But what am I to do ? 'Do ! said Sam 'di wulge to the missis , and give up your master . 
'Who'd believe me ? replied Job Trotter . 
'The young lady's considered the very picture of innocence and discretion . 
She'd deny it , and so would my master . 
Who'd believe me ? I should lose my place , and get indicted for a conspiracy , or some such thing that's all I should take by my motion . 
'There's somethin' in that , said Sam , ruminating 'there's somethin' in that . 
'If I knew any respectable gentleman who would take the matter up , continued Mr. Trotter . 
'I might have some hope of preventing the elopement but there's the same difficulty , Mr. Walker , just the same . 
I know no gentleman in this strange place and ten to one if I did , whether he would believe my story . 
'Come this way , said Sam , suddenly jumping up , and grasping the mulberry man by the arm . 
'My mas'r's the man you want , I see . 
'I am very sorry to betray my master , sir , said Job Trotter , applying to his eyes a pink checked pocket handkerchief about six inches square . 
'The feeling does you a great deal of honour , replied Mr. Pickwick 'but it is your duty , nevertheless . 
'I know it is my duty , Sir , replied Job , with great emotion . 
'You are a very good fellow , said Mr. Pickwick , much affected 'an honest fellow . 
'Come , come , interposed Sam , who had witnessed Mr. Trotter's tears with considerable impatience , 'blow this 'ere water cart bis'ness . 
It won't do no good , this won't . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick reproachfully . 
'I am sorry to find that you have so little respect for this young man's feelings . 
Tears never yet wound up a clock , or worked a steam ingin' . 
'Tain't so handsome that you need keep waving it about , as if you was a tight rope dancer . 
'My man is in the right , said Mr. Pickwick , accosting Job , 'although his mode of expressing his opinion is somewhat homely , and occasionally incomprehensible . 
'He is , sir , very right , said Mr. Trotter , 'and I will give way no longer . 
'Very well , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Now , where is this boarding school ? 'It is a large , old , red brick house , just outside the town , Sir , replied Job Trotter . 
'And when , said Mr. Pickwick 'when is this villainous design to be carried into execution when is this elopement to take place ? 'To night , Sir , replied Job . 
'To night ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'This very night , sir , replied Job Trotter . 
'That is what alarms me so much . 
'Instant measures must be taken , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I will see the lady who keeps the establishment immediately . 
'I beg your pardon , Sir , said Job , 'but that course of proceeding will never do . 
'Why not ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'My master , sir , is a very artful man . 
'I know he is , said Mr. Pickwick . 
, was discharged for some fault , and does this in revenge . 
'What had better be done , then ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Nothing but taking him in the very act of eloping , will convince the old lady , sir , replied Job . 
'All them old cats WILL run their heads agin milestones , observed Mr. Weller , in a parenthesis . 
'But this taking him in the very act of elopement , would be a very difficult thing to accomplish , I fear , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I don't know , sir , said Mr. Trotter , after a few moments' reflection . 
'I think it might be very easily done . 
'How ? was Mr. Pickwick's inquiry . 
'Why , replied Mr. Trotter , 'my master and I , being in the confidence of the two servants , will be secreted in the kitchen at ten o'clock . 
When the family have retired to rest , we shall come out of the kitchen , and the young lady out of her bedroom . 
A post chaise will be waiting , and away we go . 
'Well ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well , sir , I have been thinking that if you were in waiting in the garden behind , alone 'Alone , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why alone ? 'I thought it very natural , replied Job , 'that the old lady wouldn't like such an unpleasant discovery to be made before more persons than can possibly be helped . 
The young lady , too , sir consider her feelings . 
'You are very right , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'The consideration evinces your delicacy of feeling . 
Go on you are very right . 
Here Mr. Trotter sighed deeply . 
Job Trotter bowed low and in spite of Mr. Weller's previous remonstrance , the tears again rose to his eyes . 
'I never see such a feller , said Sam , 'Blessed if I don't think he's got a main in his head as is always turned on . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , with great severity , 'hold your tongue . 
'Wery well , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'I don't like this plan , said Mr. Pickwick , after deep meditation . 
'Why cannot I communicate with the young lady's friends ? 'Because they live one hundred miles from here , sir , responded Job Trotter . 
'That's a clincher , said Mr. Weller , aside . 
'Then this garden , resumed Mr. Pickwick . 
'How am I to get into it ? 'The wall is very low , sir , and your servant will give you a leg up . 
'My servant will give me a leg up , repeated Mr. Pickwick mechanically . 
'You will be sure to be near this door that you speak of ? 'You cannot mistake it , Sir it's the only one that opens into the garden . 
Tap at it when you hear the clock strike , and I will open it instantly . 
'I don't like the plan , said Mr. Pickwick 'but as I see no other , and as the happiness of this young lady's whole life is at stake , I adopt it . 
I shall be sure to be there . 
Thus , for the second time , did Mr. Pickwick's innate good feeling involve him in an enterprise from which he would most willingly have stood aloof . 
'What is the name of the house ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'I know it , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I observed it once before , when I was in this town . 
You may depend upon me . 
Mr. Trotter made another bow , and turned to depart , when Mr. Pickwick thrust a guinea into his hand . 
'You're a fine fellow , said Mr. Pickwick , 'and I admire your goodness of heart . 
'There is no fear of my forgetting it , sir , replied Job Trotter . 
With these words he left the room , followed by Sam . 
'I say , said the latter , 'not a bad notion that 'ere crying . 
I'd cry like a rain water spout in a shower on such good terms . 
How do you do it ? 'It comes from the heart , Mr. Walker , replied Job solemnly . 
'You're a soft customer , you are we've got it all out o' you , anyhow , thought Mr. Weller , as Job walked away . 
We cannot state the precise nature of the thoughts which passed through Mr. Trotter's mind , because we don't know what they were . 
The plot was evidently in execution , as Mr. Trotter had foretold . 
Half past ten o'clock arrived , and it was time for Mr. Pickwick to issue forth on his delicate errand . 
Resisting Sam's tender of his greatcoat , in order that he might have no encumbrance in scaling the wall , he set forth , followed by his attendant . 
There was a bright moon , but it was behind the clouds . 
it was a fine dry night , but it was most uncommonly dark . 
Paths , hedges , fields , houses , and trees , were enveloped in one deep shade . 
They found the house , read the brass plate , walked round the wall , and stopped at that portion of it which divided them from the bottom of the garden . 
'You will return to the inn , Sam , when you have assisted me over , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'And you will sit up , till I return . 
'Take hold of my leg and , when I say Over , raise me gently . 
Having settled these preliminaries , Mr. Pickwick grasped the top of the wall , and gave the word 'Over , which was literally obeyed . 
'I have not hurt MYSELF , Sam , certainly , replied Mr. Pickwick , from the other side of the wall , 'but I rather think that YOU have hurt me . 
'I hope not , Sir , said Sam . 
'Never mind , said Mr. Pickwick , rising , 'it's nothing but a few scratches . 
Go away , or we shall be overheard . 
With stealthy steps Sam Weller departed , leaving Mr. Pickwick alone in the garden . 
Lights occasionally appeared in the different windows of the house , or glanced from the staircases , as if the inmates were retiring to rest . 
Not caring to go too near the door , until the appointed time , Mr. Pickwick crouched into an angle of the wall , and awaited its arrival . 
It was a situation which might well have depressed the spirits of many a man . 
Mr. Pickwick , however , felt neither depression nor misgiving . 
He knew that his purpose was in the main a good one , and he placed implicit reliance on the high minded Job . 
it was dull , certainly not to say dreary but a contemplative man can always employ himself in meditation . 
Mr. Pickwick had meditated himself into a doze , when he was roused by the chimes of the neighbouring church ringing out the hour half past eleven . 
'That's the time , thought Mr. Pickwick , getting cautiously on his feet . 
He looked up at the house . 
The lights had disappeared , and the shutters were closed all in bed , no doubt . 
He walked on tiptoe to the door , and gave a gentle tap . 
Two or three minutes passing without any reply , he gave another tap rather louder , and then another rather louder than that . 
At length the sound of feet was audible upon the stairs , and then the light of a candle shone through the keyhole of the door . 
There was a good deal of unchaining and unbolting , and the door was slowly opened . 
Now the door opened outwards and as the door opened wider and wider , Mr. Pickwick receded behind it , more and more . 
'It must have been the cat , Sarah , said the girl , addressing herself to some one in the house . 
'Puss , puss , puss , tit , tit , tit . 
But no animal being decoyed by these blandishments , the girl slowly closed the door , and re fastened it leaving Mr. Pickwick drawn up straight against the wall . 
'This is very curious , thought Mr. Pickwick . 
'They are sitting up beyond their usual hour , I suppose . 
Extremely unfortunate , that they should have chosen this night , of all others , for such a purpose exceedingly . 
Mr. Pickwick was perfectly aware that a tree is a very dangerous neighbour in a thunderstorm . 
He had a tree on his right , a tree on his left , a third before him , and a fourth behind . 
If he remained where he was , he might fall the victim of an accident if he showed himself in the centre of the garden , he might be consigned to a constable . 
'What a dreadful situation , said Mr. Pickwick , pausing to wipe his brow after this exercise . 
He looked up at the house all was dark . 
They must be gone to bed now . 
He would try the signal again . 
He walked on tiptoe across the moist gravel , and tapped at the door . 
He held his breath , and listened at the key hole . 
There was a low whispering inside , and then a voice cried 'Who's there ? 'That's not Job , thought Mr. Pickwick , hastily drawing himself straight up against the wall again . 
It was clear that the whole establishment was roused . 
Of course Mr. Pickwick didn't say who was there and then the burden of the chorus changed into 'Lor ! I am so frightened . 
'Lor , what a stupid thing that cook is ! said the thirty boarders . 
'Cook , said the lady abbess , with great dignity 'don't answer me , if you please . 
I insist upon your looking into the garden immediately . 
Here the cook began to cry , and the housemaid said it was 'a shame ! for which partisanship she received a month's warning on the spot . 
'Do you hear , cook ? said the lady abbess , stamping her foot impatiently . 
'Don't you hear your missis , cook ? said the three teachers . 
'What an impudent thing that cook is ! said the thirty boarders . 
'What is the matter with Miss Smithers ? said the lady abbess , as the aforesaid Miss Smithers proceeded to go into hysterics of four young lady power . 
'Lor , Miss Smithers , dear , said the other nine and twenty boarders . 
'Oh , the man the man behind the door ! screamed Miss Smithers . 
The lady abbess no sooner heard this appalling cry , than she retreated to her own bedroom , double locked the door , and fainted away comfortably . 
In the midst of the tumult , Mr. Pickwick emerged from his concealment , and presented himself amongst them . 
'Ladies dear ladies , said Mr. Pickwick . 
he says we're dear , cried the oldest and ugliest teacher . 
'Oh , the wretch ! 'Ladies , roared Mr. Pickwick , rendered desperate by the danger of his situation . 
I want the lady of the house . 
'Oh , what a ferocious monster ! screamed another teacher . 
Here there was a general scream . 
'Ring the alarm bell , somebody ! cried a dozen voices . 
'Don't don't , shouted Mr. Pickwick . 
Do I look like a robber ! My dear ladies you may bind me hand and leg , or lock me up in a closet , if you like . 
Only hear what I have got to say only hear me . 
'How did you come in our garden ? faltered the housemaid . 
'Call the lady of the house , and I'll tell her everything , said Mr. Pickwick , exerting his lungs to the utmost pitch . 
'Call her only be quiet , and call her , and you shall hear everything . 
to a state of comparative quiet . 
This revived the others and Miss Tomkins having been brought to , and brought down , the conference began . 
'What did you do in my garden , man ? said Miss Tomkins , in a faint voice . 
'I came to warn you that one of your young ladies was going to elope to night , replied Mr. Pickwick , from the interior of the closet . 
'Elope ! exclaimed Miss Tomkins , the three teachers , the thirty boarders , and the five servants . 
'Who with ? 'Your friend , Mr. Charles Fitz Marshall . 
'MY friend ! I don't know any such person . 
'Well , Mr. Jingle , then . 
'I never heard the name in my life . 
'Then , I have been deceived , and deluded , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I have been the victim of a conspiracy a foul and base conspiracy . 
Send to the Angel , my dear ma'am , if you don't believe me . 
Send to the Angel for Mr. Pickwick's manservant , I implore you , ma'am . 
'He must be respectable he keeps a manservant , said Miss Tomkins to the writing and ciphering governess . 
'I think you are very right , Miss Gwynn , responded Miss Tomkins . 
'Let two of the servants repair to the Angel , and let the others remain here , to protect us . 
A very brief conversation ensued . 
You must have heard it from my servant say , at all events , my dear fellow , that I am neither a robber nor a madman . 
'I have said so , my dear friend . 
I have said so already , replied Mr. Wardle , shaking the right hand of his friend , while Mr. Trundle shook the left . 
Mr. Pickwick's explanation having already been partially made , was soon concluded . 
He seemed bewildered and amazed . 
'We arrived to night , and were astonished to hear from your servant that you were here too . 
But I am glad you are , said the old fellow , slapping him on the back 'I am glad you are . 
The bell did ring in due course , and Mr. Weller presented himself . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , looking out from under the bed clothes . 
'Sir , said Mr. Weller . 
Mr. Pickwick paused , and Mr. Weller snuffed the candle . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick again , as if with a desperate effort . 
'Sir , said Mr. Weller , once more . 
'Where is that Trotter ? 'Job , sir ? 'Yes . 
'With his master , I suppose ? 'Friend or master , or whatever he is , he's gone with him , replied Mr. Weller . 
'There's a pair on 'em , sir . 
'Jingle suspected my design , and set that fellow on you , with this story , I suppose ? said Mr. Pickwick , half choking . 
'Just that , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'It was all false , of course ? 'All , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Reg'lar do , sir artful dodge . 
'I don't think he'll escape us quite so easily the next time , Sam ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I don't think he will , Sir . 
I will , or my name is not Pickwick . 
The process of being washed in the night air , and rough dried in a closet , is as dangerous as it is peculiar . 
Mr. Pickwick was laid up with an attack of rheumatism . 
But although the bodily powers of the great man were thus impaired , his mental energies retained their pristine vigour . 
His spirits were elastic his good humour was restored . 
During the two days Mr. Pickwick was confined to bed , Sam was his constant attendant . 
Once , and only once , in his life , Nathaniel Pipkin had seen a bishop a real bishop , with his arms in lawn sleeves , and his head in a wig . 
All this was very natural , and there's nothing at all to wonder at about it . 
I repeat it , to be matter of profound astonishment and intense wonder , that Nathaniel Pipkin should have had the temerity to cast his eyes in this direction . 
But love is blind and Nathaniel had a cast in his eye and perhaps these two circumstances , taken together , prevented his seeing the matter in its proper light . 
This was delightful , and gladdening to the heart of Nathaniel Pipkin . 
Upon which Nathaniel Pipkin determined , that , come what might , he would develop the state of his feelings , without further delay . 
'There was a very snug little party , consisting of Maria Lobbs and her cousin Kate , and three or four romping , good humoured , rosy cheeked girls . 
Nathaniel Pipkin had ocular demonstration of the fact , that the rumours of old Lobbs's treasures were not exaggerated . 
'Now it did unfortunately happen that old Lobbs being very hungry was monstrous cross . 
At last he thought of the closet , and walked up to it . 
It was of no use a little man like Nathaniel Pipkin pulling the door inwards , when a great strong fellow like old Lobbs was pulling it outwards . 
Old Lobbs gave it one tug , and open it flew , disclosing Nathaniel Pipkin standing bolt upright inside , and shaking with apprehension from head to foot . 
Bless us ! what an appalling look old Lobbs gave him , as he dragged him out by the collar , and held him at arm's length . 
Why , what the devil do you want here ? said old Lobbs , in a fearful voice . 
'Nathaniel Pipkin could make no reply , so old Lobbs shook him backwards and forwards , for two or three minutes , by way of arranging his ideas for him . 
What was his indignation , when that poor man replied Yes , I did , Mr. Lobbs , I did come after your daughter . 
I love her , Mr. Lobbs . 
which I am guilty of , and am ready to avow . 
I love your daughter , sir and I came here for the purpose of meeting her . 
'Old Lobbs opened his eyes very wide at this , but not wider than Nathaniel Pipkin . 
You did ? said Lobbs , at last finding breath to speak . 
And I forbade you this house , long ago . 
You did , or I should not have been here , clandestinely , to night . 
Don't stop him , Maria , said the young man if he has the will to strike me , let him . 
I would not hurt a hair of his gray head , for the riches of the world . 
'The old man cast down his eyes at this reproof , and they met those of his daughter . 
I have hinted once or twice before , that they were very bright eyes , and , though they were tearful now , their influence was by no means lessened . 
'Nathaniel Pipkin thought it best to keep his own counsel , and by so doing gradually rose into high favour with old Lobbs . 
who taught him to smoke in time and they used to sit out in the garden on the fine evenings , for many years afterwards , smoking and drinking in great state . 
Nor was the occasional society of Mr. Pott himself wanting to complete their felicity . 
'Serpent , Sir , repeated Mr. Pott , raising his voice , and then suddenly depressing it 'I said , serpent , sir make the most of it . 
He returned Mr. Pott's gaze of stone , and in compliance with that gentleman's request , proceeded to make the most he could of the 'serpent . 
'Pleasantry , sir ! exclaimed Pott , with a motion of the hand , indicative of a strong desire to hurl the Britannia metal teapot at the head of the visitor . 
'My dear sir , interposed Mr. Winkle . 
'DEAR Sir ! replied Pott . 
'Prove it , Sir , said Mr. Winkle warmly . 
'What rhymes to tinkle ? Why , Winkle , I should conceive . 
Saying this , Mrs. Pott smiled sweetly on the disturbed Pickwickian , and extended her hand towards him . 
The agitated young man would have accepted it , in his confusion , had not Pott indignantly interposed . 
'Back , ma'am back ! said the editor . 
'Take his hand before my very face ! 'Mr . 
P. ! said his astonished lady . 
'Wretched woman , look here , exclaimed the husband . 
'Look here , ma'am Lines to a Brass Pot . 
Brass Pot that's me , ma'am . 
False SHE'D have grown that's you , ma'am you . 
'Upon my word , Sir , said the astonished Mrs. Pott , stooping to pick up the paper . 
'Upon my word , Sir ! Mr. Pott winced beneath the contemptuous gaze of his wife . 
He had made a desperate struggle to screw up his courage , but it was fast coming unscrewed again . 
'My dear , said the terrified Pott , 'I didn't say I believed it I but the unfortunate man's voice was drowned in the screaming of his partner . 
Pott , let me entreat you , my dear ma'am , to compose yourself , said Mr. Winkle but the shrieks and tappings were louder , and more frequent than ever . 
'My dear , said Mr. Pott , 'I'm very sorry . 
If you won't consider your own health , consider me , my dear . 
We shall have a crowd round the house . 
But the more strenuously Mr. Pott entreated , the more vehemently the screams poured forth . 
'Oh , my dear , dear mistress ! exclaimed the bodyguard , kneeling frantically by the side of the prostrate Mrs. Pott . 
'Oh , my dear mistress , what is the matter ? 'Your master your brutal master , murmured the patient . 
Pott was evidently giving way . 
'It's a shame , said the bodyguard reproachfully . 
'I know he'll be the death on you , ma'am . 
Poor dear thing ! He gave way more . 
The opposite party followed up the attack . 
'Oh , don't leave me don't leave me , Goodwin , murmured Mrs. Pott , clutching at the wrist of the said Goodwin with an hysteric jerk . 
'You're the only person that's kind to me , Goodwin . 
At this affecting appeal , Goodwin got up a little domestic tragedy of her own , and shed tears copiously . 
'Never , ma'am never , said Goodwin . 
The unlucky Pott looked timidly on , but said nothing . 
'Goodwin , said Mrs. Pott , in a soft voice . 
'If you only knew how I have loved that man 'Don't distress yourself by recollecting it , ma'am , said the bodyguard . 
It was time to finish him . 
But I will not submit to it ! Goodwin , continued Mrs. Pott , raising herself in the arms of her attendant , 'my brother , the lieutenant , shall interfere . 
I'll be separated , Goodwin ! 'It would certainly serve him right , ma'am , said Goodwin . 
'My dear , remonstrated Mr. Pott , 'do not give way to these sensitive feelings . 
I never believed that the paragraph had any foundation , my dear impossible . 
I was only angry , my dear I may say outrageous with the INDEPENDENT people for daring to insert it that's all . 
Mr. Pott cast an imploring look at the innocent cause of the mischief , as if to entreat him to say nothing about the serpent . 
'And what steps , sir , do you mean to take to obtain redress ? inquired Mr. Winkle , gaining courage as he saw Pott losing it . 
'I dare say he will , if you wish it , ma'am . 
'Certainly , said Pott , as his wife evinced decided symptoms of going off again . 
'When , Goodwin when ? said Mrs. Pott , still undecided about the going off . 
'Immediately , of course , said Mr. Pott 'before the day is out . 
'Oh , Goodwin , resumed Mrs. Pott , 'it's the only way of meeting the slander , and setting me right with the world . 
'Certainly , ma'am , replied Goodwin . 
'No man as is a man , ma'am , could refuse to do it . 
'You will not allow this base newspaper slander to shorten your stay here , Mr. Winkle ? said Mrs. Pott , smiling through the traces of her tears . 
'But you will come back ? said Mrs. Pott . 
'Oh , certainly , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'You are quite sure ? said Mrs. Pott , stealing a tender look at her visitor . 
'Quite , responded Mr. Winkle . 
The breakfast passed off in silence , for each of the party was brooding over his , or her , own personal grievances . 
Mrs. Pott was regretting the loss of a beau Mr. Pott his rash pledge to horsewhip the INDEPENDENT Mr. Winkle his having innocently placed himself in so awkward a situation . 
Noon approached , and after many adieux and promises to return , he tore himself away . 
'If he ever comes back , I'll poison him , thought Mr. Pott , as he turned into the little back office where he prepared his thunderbolts . 
'How are you ? said the old man , grasping Mr. Tupman's hand . 
'Don't hang back , or look sentimental about it it can't be helped , old fellow . 
For her sake , I wish you'd had her for your own , I'm very glad you have not . 
A young fellow like you will do better one of these days , eh ? With this conclusion , Wardle slapped Mr. Tupman on the back , and laughed heartily . 
'Well , and how are you , my fine fellows ? said the old gentleman , shaking hands with Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass at the same time . 
'I have just been telling Pickwick that we must have you all down at Christmas . 
We're going to have a wedding a real wedding this time . 
'A wedding ! exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass , turning very pale . 
But don't be frightened , said the good humoured old man 'it's only Trundle there , and Bella . 
'Oh , is that all ? said Mr. Snodgrass , relieved from a painful doubt which had fallen heavily on his breast . 
'Give you joy , Sir . 
How is Joe ? 'Very well , replied the old gentleman . 
'And your mother , and the clergyman , and all of 'em ? 'Quite well . 
'Where , said Mr. Tupman , with an effort 'where is SHE , Sir ? and he turned away his head , and covered his eyes with his hand . 
'SHE ! said the old gentleman , with a knowing shake of the head . 
'Do you mean my single relative eh ? Mr. Tupman , by a nod , intimated that his question applied to the disappointed Rachael . 
'Oh , she's gone away , said the old gentleman . 
'She's living at a relation's , far enough off . 
She couldn't bear to see the girls , so I let her go . 
But come ! Here's the dinner . 
You must be hungry after your ride . 
I am , without any ride at all so let us fall to . 
'And the attack of rheumatism which I caught in that garden , said Mr. Pickwick , in conclusion , 'renders me lame at this moment . 
Mr. Pickwick's brow darkened during the recital . 
His friends observed it , and , when Mr. Winkle had concluded , maintained a profound silence . 
'It's sealed vith a vafer , and directed in round hand . 
'I don't know this hand , said Mr. Pickwick , opening the letter . 
'Mercy on us ! what's this ? It must be a jest it it can't be true . 
'What's the matter ? was the general inquiry . 
'Nobody dead , is there ? said Wardle , alarmed at the horror in Mr. Pickwick's countenance . 
Mr. Tupman , with a trembling voice , read the letter , of which the following is a copy Freeman's Court , Cornhill , August th , . 
We are , Sir , Your obedient servants , Dodson Fogg . 
There was something so impressive in the mute astonishment with which each man regarded his neighbour , and every man regarded Mr. Pickwick , that all seemed afraid to speak . 
The silence was at length broken by Mr. Tupman . 
'Dodson and Fogg , he repeated mechanically . 
'Bardell and Pickwick , said Mr. Snodgrass , musing . 
'Peace of mind and happiness of confiding females , murmured Mr. Winkle , with an air of abstraction . 
'It's a conspiracy , said Mr. Pickwick , at length recovering the power of speech 'a base conspiracy between these two grasping attorneys , Dodson and Fogg . 
Mrs. Bardell would never do it she hasn't the heart to do it she hasn't the case to do it . 
'Of her heart , said Wardle , with a smile , 'you should certainly be the best judge . 
I don't wish to discourage you , but I should certainly say that , of her case , Dodson and Fogg are far better judges than any of us can be . 
'It's a vile attempt to extort money , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I hope it is , said Wardle , with a short , dry cough . 
'Who ever heard me address her in any way but that in which a lodger would address his landlady ? continued Mr. Pickwick , with great vehemence . 
'Who ever saw me with her ? Not even my friends here 'Except on one occasion , said Mr. Tupman . 
'Ah , said Mr. Wardle . 
There was nothing suspicious then , I suppose ? Mr. Tupman glanced timidly at his leader . 
'Why , said he , 'there was nothing suspicious but I don't know how it happened , mind she certainly was reclining in his arms . 
'And our friend was soothing her anguish , said Mr. Winkle , rather maliciously . 
'So I was , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'What a dreadful conjunction of appearances ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , resting his chin upon his hands . 
'Winkle Tupman I beg your pardon for the observations I made just now . 
We are all the victims of circumstances , and I the greatest . 
'I'll have it explained , though , said Mr. Pickwick , raising his head and hammering the table . 
'I'll see this Dodson and Fogg ! I'll go to London to morrow . 
'Not to morrow , said Wardle 'you're too lame . 
'Well , then , next day . 
'Well , then , the day after , said Mr. Pickwick 'Thursday . 
Sam ! 'Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Take two places outside to London , on Thursday morning , for yourself and me . 
Mr. Weller left the room , and departed slowly on his errand , with his hands in his pocket and his eyes fixed on the ground . 
'Rum feller , the hemperor , said Mr. Weller , as he walked slowly up the street . 
I didn't think he'd ha' done it , though I didn't think he'd ha' done it ! Moralising in this strain , Mr. Samuel Weller bent his steps towards the booking office . 
But we grow affecting let us proceed . 
Everything bore the stamp of summer , and none of its beautiful colour had yet faded from the die . 
'Bless you , yes ! You shall fill one , and I the other and when we've done with them , the pockets of our shooting jackets will hold as much more . 
'Hi , Juno , lass hi , old girl down , Daph , down , said Wardle , caressing the dogs . 
'My friends are not much in the way of this sort of thing yet , Martin , said Wardle , noticing the look . 
'Live and learn , you know . 
They'll be good shots one of these days . 
I beg my friend Winkle's pardon , though he has had some practice . 
Mr. Winkle , thus admonished , abruptly altered his position , and in so doing , contrived to bring the barrel into pretty smart contact with Mr. Weller's head . 
'Hollo ! said Sam , picking up his hat , which had been knocked off , and rubbing his temple . 
'Hollo , sir ! if you comes it this vay , you'll fill one o' them bags , and something to spare , at one fire . 
Here the leather legginged boy laughed very heartily , and then tried to look as if it was somebody else , whereat Mr. Winkle frowned majestically . 
'Where did you tell the boy to meet us with the snack , Martin ? inquired Wardle . 
'Side of One tree Hill , at twelve o'clock , Sir . 
'That's not Sir Geoffrey's land , is it ? 'No , Sir but it's close by it . 
It's Captain Boldwig's land but there'll be nobody to interrupt us , and there's a fine bit of turf there . 
'Very well , said old Wardle . 
'Now the sooner we're off the better . 
On so inviting a morning , too , it was very tantalising to turn back , and leave his friends to enjoy themselves . 
It was , therefore , with a very rueful air that he replied 'Why , I suppose I must . 
'Ain't the gentleman a shot , Sir ? inquired the long gamekeeper . 
'No , replied Wardle 'and he's lame besides . 
'I should very much like to go , said Mr. Pickwick 'very much . 
There was a short pause of commiseration . 
'There's a barrow t'other side the hedge , said the boy . 
'If the gentleman's servant would wheel along the paths , he could keep nigh us , and we could lift it over the stiles , and that . 
'The wery thing , said Mr. Weller , who was a party interested , inasmuch as he ardently longed to see the sport . 
Well said , Smallcheek I'll have it out in a minute . 
But here a difficulty arose . 
The long gamekeeper resolutely protested against the introduction into a shooting party , of a gentleman in a barrow , as a gross violation of all established rules and precedents . 
It was a great objection , but not an insurmountable one . 
'Stop , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , when they had got half across the first field . 
'What's the matter now ? said Wardle . 
'I won't suffer this barrow to be moved another step , said Mr. Pickwick , resolutely , 'unless Winkle carries that gun of his in a different manner . 
'How AM I to carry it ? said the wretched Winkle . 
'Carry it with the muzzle to the ground , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'It's so unsportsmanlike , reasoned Winkle . 
'I don't care whether it's unsportsmanlike or not , replied Mr. Pickwick 'I am not going to be shot in a wheel barrow , for the sake of appearances , to please anybody . 
'I know the gentleman'll put that 'ere charge into somebody afore he's done , growled the long man . 
'Well , well I don't mind , said poor Winkle , turning his gun stock uppermost 'there . 
'Anythin' for a quiet life , said Mr. Weller and on they went again . 
'Stop ! said Mr. Pickwick , after they had gone a few yards farther . 
'What now ? said Wardle . 
'That gun of Tupman's is not safe I know it isn't , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Eh ? What ! not safe ? said Mr. Tupman , in a tone of great alarm . 
'Not as you are carrying it , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I am very sorry to make any further objection , but I cannot consent to go on , unless you carry it as Winkle does his . 
'I think you had better , sir , said the long gamekeeper , 'or you're quite as likely to lodge the charge in yourself as in anything else . 
The dogs suddenly came to a dead stop , and the party advancing stealthily a single pace , stopped too . 
'What's the matter with the dogs' legs ? whispered Mr. Winkle . 
'Hush , can't you ? replied Wardle softly . 
'Making a point ! What are they pointing at ? 'Keep your eyes open , said Wardle , not heeding the question in the excitement of the moment . 
There was a sharp whirring noise , that made Mr. Winkle start back as if he had been shot himself . 
Bang , bang , went a couple of guns the smoke swept quickly away over the field , and curled into the air . 
'Where are they ! said Mr. Winkle , in a state of the highest excitement , turning round and round in all directions . 
'Where are they ? Tell me when to fire . 
Where are they where are they ? 'Where are they ! said Wardle , taking up a brace of birds which the dogs had deposited at his feet . 
'Why , here they are . 
'No , no I mean the others , said the bewildered Winkle . 
'Far enough off , by this time , replied Wardle , coolly reloading his gun . 
'We shall very likely be up with another covey in five minutes , said the long gamekeeper . 
'If the gentleman begins to fire now , perhaps he'll just get the shot out of the barrel by the time they rise . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! roared Mr. Weller . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , compassionating his follower's confusion and embarrassment . 
'Bravo , old fellow ! said Wardle to Mr. Tupman 'you fired that time , at all events . 
'Oh , yes , replied Mr. Tupman , with conscious pride . 
You'll hit something next time , if you look sharp . 
Very easy , ain't it ? 'Yes , it's very easy , said Mr. Tupman . 
'How it hurts one's shoulder , though . 
It nearly knocked me backwards . 
I had no idea these small firearms kicked so . 
'Ah , said the old gentleman , smiling , 'you'll get used to it in time . 
Now then all ready all right with the barrow there ? 'All right , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Hold hard , Sir , said Sam , raising the barrow . 
'Aye , aye , replied Mr. Pickwick and on they went , as briskly as need be . 
'Keep that barrow back now , cried Wardle , when it had been hoisted over a stile into another field , and Mr. Pickwick had been deposited in it once more . 
'All right , sir , replied Mr. Weller , pausing . 
'Now , Winkle , said the old gentleman , 'follow me softly , and don't be too late this time . 
'Never fear , said Mr. Winkle . 
'Are they pointing ? 'No , no not now . 
'Why , what on earth did you do that for ? said old Wardle , as the birds flew unharmed away . 
'I never saw such a gun in my life , replied poor Mr. Winkle , looking at the lock , as if that would do any good . 
'It goes off of its own accord . 
'Will do it ! echoed Wardle , with something of irritation in his manner . 
'I wish it would kill something of its own accord . 
'It'll do that afore long , Sir , observed the tall man , in a low , prophetic voice . 
'What do you mean by that observation , Sir ? inquired Mr. Winkle , angrily . 
Load again , Sir , load again . 
'Take away his gun , cried Mr. Pickwick from the barrow , horror stricken at the long man's dark insinuations . 
Mr. Tupman's process , like many of our most sublime discoveries , was extremely simple . 
On one occasion , after performing this feat , Mr. Tupman , on opening his eyes , beheld a plump partridge in the act of falling , wounded , to the ground . 
He was on the point of congratulating Mr. Wardle on his invariable success , when that gentleman advanced towards him , and grasped him warmly by the hand . 
'Tupman , said the old gentleman , 'you singled out that particular bird ? 'No , said Mr. Tupman 'no . 
'You did , said Wardle . 
You are an older hand at this than I thought you , Tupman you have been out before . 
It was in vain for Mr. Tupman to protest , with a smile of self denial , that he never had . 
The very smile was taken as evidence to the contrary and from that time forth his reputation was established . 
It is not the only reputation that has been acquired as easily , nor are such fortunate circumstances confined to partridge shooting . 
As a display of fancy shooting , it was extremely varied and curious as an exhibition of firing with any precise object , it was , upon the whole , perhaps a failure . 
It is an established axiom , that 'every bullet has its billet . 
If it apply in an equal degree to shot , those of Mr. Winkle were unfortunate foundlings , deprived of their natural rights , cast loose upon the world , and billeted nowhere . 
The sun is tremendously hot , even to me . 
I don't know how you must feel it . 
'Why , said the old gentleman , 'pretty hot . 
It's past twelve , though . 
You see that green hill there ? 'Certainly . 
I'll give him a shilling , presently . 
Now , then , Sam , wheel away . 
'Hold on , sir , said Mr. Weller , invigorated with the prospect of refreshments . 
'Out of the vay , young leathers . 
If you walley my precious life don't upset me , as the gen'l'm'n said to the driver when they was a carryin' him to Tyburn . 
'Weal pie , said Mr. Weller , soliloquising , as he arranged the eatables on the grass . 
'Not they , sir , replied Mr. Weller , touching his hat . 
'I lodged in the same house vith a pieman once , sir , and a wery nice man he was reg'lar clever chap , too make pies out o' anything , he could . 
What a number o' cats you keep , Mr. Brooks , says I , when I'd got intimate with him . 
Not in season ! says I. No , says he , fruits is in , cats is out . 
Why , what do you mean ? says I. Mean ! says he . 
That I'll never be a party to the combination o' the butchers , to keep up the price o' meat , says he . 
Mr. Weller , says he , a squeezing my hand wery hard , and vispering in my ear don't mention this here agin but it's the seasonin' as does it . 
'Just was , sir , replied Mr. Weller , continuing his occupation of emptying the basket , 'and the pies was beautiful . 
Tongue , well that's a wery good thing when it ain't a woman's . 
Bread knuckle o' ham , reg'lar picter cold beef in slices , wery good . 
'And a wery good notion of a lunch it is , take it altogether , said Mr. Weller , surveying his arrangement of the repast with great satisfaction . 
'Now , gen'l'm'n , fall on , as the English said to the French when they fixed bagginets . 
'This is delightful thoroughly delightful ! said Mr. Pickwick the skin of whose expressive countenance was rapidly peeling off , with exposure to the sun . 
'So it is so it is , old fellow , replied Wardle . 
'Come a glass of punch ! 'With great pleasure , said Mr. Pickwick the satisfaction of whose countenance , after drinking it , bore testimony to the sincerity of the reply . 
'Good , said Mr. Pickwick , smacking his lips . 
Come , gentlemen , continued Mr. Pickwick , still retaining his hold upon the jar , 'a toast . 
Our friends at Dingley Dell . 
The toast was drunk with loud acclamations . 
'I'll tell you what I shall do , to get up my shooting again , said Mr. Winkle , who was eating bread and ham with a pocket knife . 
'I'll put a stuffed partridge on the top of a post , and practise at it , beginning at a short distance , and lengthening it by degrees . 
I understand it's capital practice . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Have the goodness to reserve your anecdotes till they are called for . 
So away they went , leaving Mr. Pickwick snoring most comfortably in the shade . 
But he was NOT suffered to remain there in peace . 
And this was what prevented him . 
'Hunt , said Captain Boldwig . 
'Yes , Sir , said the gardener . 
'Roll this place to morrow morning do you hear , Hunt ? 'Yes , Sir . 
'And take care that you keep this place in good order do you hear , Hunt ? 'Yes , Sir . 
'And remind me to have a board done about trespassers , and spring guns , and all that sort of thing , to keep the common people out . 
Do you hear , Hunt do you hear ? 'I'll not forget it , Sir . 
'I beg your pardon , Sir , said the other man , advancing , with his hand to his hat . 
'Well , Wilkins , what's the matter with you ? said Captain Boldwig . 
'I beg your pardon , sir but I think there have been trespassers here to day . 
'Ha ! said the captain , scowling around him . 
'Yes , sir they have been dining here , I think , sir . 
'Why , damn their audacity , so they have , said Captain Boldwig , as the crumbs and fragments that were strewn upon the grass met his eye . 
'They have actually been devouring their food here . 
I wish I had the vagabonds here ! said the captain , clenching the thick stick . 
'I wish I had the vagabonds here , said the captain wrathfully . 
'Who are you , you rascal ? said the captain , administering several pokes to Mr. Pickwick's body with the thick stick . 
'What's your name ? 'Cold punch , murmured Mr. Pickwick , as he sank to sleep again . 
'What ? demanded Captain Boldwig . 
'What did he say his name was ? asked the captain . 
'Punch , I think , sir , replied Wilkins . 
'That's his impudence that's his confounded impudence , said Captain Boldwig . 
'He's only feigning to be asleep now , said the captain , in a high passion . 
'He's drunk he's a drunken plebeian . 
Wheel him away , Wilkins , wheel him away directly . 
'Where shall I wheel him to , sir ? inquired Wilkins , with great timidity . 
'Wheel him to the devil , replied Captain Boldwig . 
'Very well , sir , said Wilkins . 
'Stay , said the captain . 
'Wheel him , said the captain 'wheel him to the pound and let us see whether he calls himself Punch when he comes to himself . 
He shall not bully me he shall not bully me . 
Away Mr. Pickwick was wheeled in compliance with this imperious mandate and the great Captain Boldwig , swelling with indignation , proceeded on his walk . 
Inexpressible was the astonishment of the little party when they returned , to find that Mr. Pickwick had disappeared , and taken the wheel barrow with him . 
They searched every nook and corner round , together and separately they shouted , whistled , laughed , called and all with the same result . 
Mr. Pickwick was not to be found . 
After some hours of fruitless search , they arrived at the unwelcome conclusion that they must go home without him . 
A general shout was of course the signal of his having woke up and his involuntary inquiry of 'What's the matter ? occasioned another , louder than the first , if possible . 
'Here's a game ! roared the populace . 
'Where am I ? exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'In the pound , replied the mob . 
'How came I here ? What was I doing ? Where was I brought from ? 'Boldwig ! Captain Boldwig ! was the only reply . 
'Let me out , cried Mr. Pickwick . 
'Where's my servant ? Where are my friends ? 'You ain't got no friends . 
Hurrah ! Then there came a turnip , then a potato , and then an egg with a few other little tokens of the playful disposition of the many headed . 
'Run to the justice's ! cried a dozen voices . 
'Ah , run avay , said Mr. Weller , jumping up on the box . 
Drive on , old feller . 
'We were trespassing , it seems , said Wardle . 
'I don't care , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I'll bring the action . 
'No , you won't , said Wardle . 
Do what he would , a smile would come into Mr. Pickwick's face the smile extended into a laugh the laugh into a roar the roar became general . 
The clerks' office of Messrs . 
'Come in , can't you ! cried a voice from behind the partition , in reply to Mr. Pickwick's gentle tap at the door . 
And Mr. Pickwick and Sam entered accordingly . 
Dodson or Mr. Fogg at home , sir ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , gently , advancing , hat in hand , towards the partition . 
Dodson ain't at home , and Mr. Fogg's particularly engaged , said the man to whom the head belonged . 
'When will Mr. Dodson be back , sir ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Will it be long before Mr. Fogg is disengaged , Sir ? 'Don't know . 
'I think I'll wait , said Mr. Pickwick . 
There was no reply so Mr. Pickwick sat down unbidden , and listened to the loud ticking of the clock and the murmured conversation of the clerks . 
'Devilish good devilish good , said the Seidlitz powder man . 
'Tom Cummins was in the chair , said the man with the brown coat . 
I say , I wonder what old Fogg 'ud say , if he knew it . 
I should get the sack , I s'pose eh ? At this humorous notion , all the clerks laughed in concert . 
'Ah , Ramsey a precious seedy looking customer . 
Old Fogg looked first at the money , and then at him , and then he coughed in his rum way , so that I knew something was coming . 
You don't know there's a declaration filed , which increases the costs materially , I suppose , said Fogg . 
You don't say that , sir , said Ramsey , starting back the time was only out last night , Sir . 
I do say it , though , said Fogg , my clerk's just gone to file it . 
Hasn't Mr. Jackson gone to file that declaration in Bullman and Ramsey , Mr. Wicks ? Of course I said yes , and then Fogg coughed again , and looked at Ramsey . 
My God ! said Ramsey and here have I nearly driven myself mad , scraping this money together , and all to no purpose . 
None at all , said Fogg coolly so you had better go back and scrape some more together , and bring it here in time . 
I can't get it , by God ! said Ramsey , striking the desk with his fist . 
Don't bully me , sir , said Fogg , getting into a passion on purpose . 
I am not bullying you , sir , said Ramsey . 
You are , said Fogg get out , sir get out of this office , Sir , and come back , Sir , when you know how to behave yourself . 
Well , Ramsey tried to speak , but Fogg wouldn't let him , so he put the money in his pocket , and sneaked out . 
The door was scarcely shut , when old Fogg turned round to me , with a sweet smile on his face , and drew the declaration out of his coat pocket . 
Here , Wicks , says Fogg , take a cab , and go down to the Temple as quick as you can , and file that . 
'Nice men these here , Sir , whispered Mr. Weller to his master 'wery nice notion of fun they has , Sir . 
'I wonder whether Fogg's disengaged now ? said Jackson . 
'I'll see , said Wicks , dismounting leisurely from his stool . 
'What name shall I tell Mr. Fogg ? 'Pickwick , replied the illustrious subject of these memoirs . 
'What did he say his name was ? whispered Wicks . 
'Pickwick , replied Jackson 'it's the defendant in Bardell and Pickwick . 
A sudden scraping of feet , mingled with the sound of suppressed laughter , was heard from behind the partition . 
'They're a twiggin' of you , Sir , whispered Mr. Weller . 
On his looking up , the row of heads suddenly disappeared , and the sound of pens travelling at a furious rate over paper , immediately succeeded . 
was ready to see Mr. Pickwick if he would step upstairs . 
Upstairs Mr. Pickwick did step accordingly , leaving Sam Weller below . 
The room door of the one pair back , bore inscribed in legible characters the imposing words , 'Mr . 
Fogg' and , having tapped thereat , and been desired to come in , Jackson ushered Mr. Pickwick into the presence . 
'Is Mr. Dodson in ? inquired Mr. Fogg . 
'Just come in , Sir , replied Jackson . 
'Ask him to step here . 
'Take a seat , sir , said Fogg 'there is the paper , sir my partner will be here directly , and we can converse about this matter , sir . 
After a few minutes' silence , Mr. Dodson , a plump , portly , stern looking man , with a loud voice , appeared and the conversation commenced . 
'This is Mr. Pickwick , said Fogg . 
'Ah ! You are the defendant , Sir , in Bardell and Pickwick ? said Dodson . 
'I am , sir , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Grounds of Fogg had ejaculated this much , when he was stopped by Dodson . 
Fogg , said Dodson , 'I am going to speak . 
'I beg your pardon , Mr. Dodson , said Fogg . 
'For the grounds of action , sir , continued Dodson , with moral elevation in his air , 'you will consult your own conscience and your own feelings . 
We , Sir , we , are guided entirely by the statement of our client . 
'I hope you are , Sir , replied Dodson 'I trust you may be , Sir . 
If you are really innocent of what is laid to your charge , you are more unfortunate than I had believed any man could possibly be . 
What do you say , Mr. Fogg ? 'I say precisely what you say , replied Fogg , with a smile of incredulity . 
'The writ , Sir , which commences the action , continued Dodson , 'was issued regularly . 
Mr. Fogg , where is the PRAECIPE book ? 'Here it is , said Fogg , handing over a square book , with a parchment cover . 
'Here is the entry , resumed Dodson . 
Middlesex , Capias MARTHA BARDELL , WIDOW , v . 
Dodson Fogg for the plaintiff , Aug . 
All regular , Sir perfectly . 
Dodson coughed and looked at Fogg , who said 'Perfectly , also . 
And then they both looked at Mr. Pickwick . 
'And that the damages are actually laid at fifteen hundred pounds ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'To which understanding you may add my assurance , that if we could have prevailed upon our client , they would have been laid at treble the amount , sir , replied Dodson . 
'I believe Mrs. Bardell specially said , however , observed Fogg , glancing at Dodson , 'that she would not compromise for a farthing less . 
'Unquestionably , replied Dodson sternly . 
For the action was only just begun and it wouldn't have done to let Mr. Pickwick compromise it then , even if he had been so disposed . 
Here is the original , sir . 
'Very well , gentlemen , very well , said Mr. Pickwick , rising in person and wrath at the same time 'you shall hear from my solicitor , gentlemen . 
'We shall be very happy to do so , said Fogg , rubbing his hands . 
'Very , said Dodson , opening the door . 
Jackson ! Mr. Wicks ! 'Sir , said the two clerks , appearing at the bottom of the stairs . 
'I merely want you to hear what this gentleman says , replied Dodson . 
'Pray , go on , sir disgraceful and rascally proceedings , I think you said ? 'I did , said Mr. Pickwick , thoroughly roused . 
'I said , Sir , that of all the disgraceful and rascally proceedings that ever were attempted , this is the most so . 
I repeat it , sir . 
'You hear that , Mr. Wicks , said Dodson . 
'You won't forget these expressions , Mr. Jackson ? said Fogg . 
'Perhaps you would like to call us swindlers , sir , said Dodson . 
'Pray do , Sir , if you feel disposed now pray do , Sir . 
'I do , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Very good , said Dodson . 
'You can hear down there , I hope , Mr. Wicks ? 'Oh , yes , Sir , said Wicks . 
'You had better come up a step or two higher , if you can't , added Mr. Fogg . 
'Go on , Sir do go on . 
You had better call us thieves , Sir or perhaps You would like to assault one Of US . 
Pray do it , Sir , if you would we will not make the smallest resistance . 
Pray do it , Sir . 
'You just come away , said Mr. Weller . 
'Battledore and shuttlecock's a wery good game , vhen you ain't the shuttlecock and two lawyers the battledores , in which case it gets too excitin' to be pleasant . 
If you want to ease your mind by blowing up somebody , come out into the court and blow up me but it's rayther too expensive work to be carried on here . 
Mr. Pickwick walked on abstractedly , crossed opposite the Mansion House , and bent his steps up Cheapside . 
Sam began to wonder where they were going , when his master turned round , and said 'Sam , I will go immediately to Mr. Perker's . 
'That's just exactly the wery place vere you ought to have gone last night , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'I think it is , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I KNOW it is , said Mr. Weller . 
Where can I have it , Sam ? Mr. Weller's knowledge of London was extensive and peculiar . 
Among the number was one stout , red faced , elderly man , in particular , seated in an opposite box , who attracted Mr. Pickwick's attention . 
Then he would take another half dozen puffs with an air of profound meditation and look at them again . 
'Why , I wouldn't ha' believed it , Sir , replied Mr. Weller , with astonished eyes . 
'Old one , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'What old one ? 'My father , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Wy , Sammy , said the father , 'I ha'n't seen you , for two year and better . 
'Nor more you have , old codger , replied the son . 
She don't act as a vife , Sammy . 
'Don't she , though ? inquired Mr. Weller , junior . 
The elder Mr. Weller shook his head , as he replied with a sigh , 'I've done it once too often , Sammy I've done it once too often . 
Take example by your father , my boy , and be wery careful o' widders all your life , 'specially if they've kept a public house , Sammy . 
'Not I , replied Mr. Pickwick , laughing and while Mr. Pickwick laughed , Sam Weller informed his parent in a whisper , of the relation in which he stood towards that gentleman . 
It's the only way to make a boy sharp , sir . 
'Rather a dangerous process , I should imagine , said Mr. Pickwick , with a smile . 
'And not a wery sure one , neither , added Mr. Weller 'I got reg'larly done the other day . 
'No ! said his father . 
'I did , said the son and he proceeded to relate , in as few words as possible , how he had fallen a ready dupe to the stratagems of Job Trotter . 
'T' other's a black haired chap in mulberry livery , with a wery large head ? 'Yes , yes , he is , said Mr. Pickwick and Sam , with great earnestness . 
'Then I know where they are , and that's all about it , said Mr. Weller 'they're at Ipswich , safe enough , them two . 
'No ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Fact , said Mr. Weller , 'and I'll tell you how I know it . 
I work an Ipswich coach now and then for a friend o' mine . 
'I'll follow him , said Mr. Pickwick 'we may as well see Ipswich as any other place . 
'You're quite certain it was them , governor ? inquired Mr. Weller , junior . 
'Old who ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Old Fireworks , Sir by which , I've no doubt , they meant you , Sir . 
There is nothing positively vile or atrocious in the appellation of 'old Fireworks , but still it is by no means a respectful or flattering designation . 
'I'll follow him , said Mr. Pickwick , with an emphatic blow on the table . 
'So we had , said Mr. Pickwick 'very true I can write to Bury , and tell them to meet me at Ipswich . 
We will go with you . 
'Certainly not , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well done , father , said Sam , 'take care , old fellow , or you'll have a touch of your old complaint , the gout . 
'I've found a sov'rin' cure for that , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , setting down the glass . 
It's a capital prescription , sir . 
I takes it reg'lar , and I can warrant it to drive away any illness as is caused by too much jollity . 
Having imparted this valuable secret , Mr. Weller drained his glass once more , produced a laboured wink , sighed deeply , and slowly retired . 
'Well , what do you think of what your father says , Sam ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , with a smile . 
There was no replying to this very apposite conclusion , and , therefore , Mr. Pickwick , after settling the reckoning , resumed his walk to Gray's Inn . 
After climbing two pairs of steep and dirty stairs , he found his anticipations were realised . 
Mr. Perker's 'outer door' was closed and the dead silence which followed Mr. Weller's repeated kicks thereat , announced that the officials had retired from business for the night . 
'Here's an old 'ooman comin' upstairs , sir , replied Mr. Weller 'p'raps she knows where we can find somebody . 
Hollo , old lady , vere's Mr. Perker's people ? 'Mr . 
Perker's people , said a thin , miserable looking old woman , stopping to recover breath after the ascent of the staircase 'Mr . 
Perker's people's gone , and I'm a goin' to do the office out . 
'Are you Mr. Perker's servant ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'I am Mr. Perker's laundress , replied the woman . 
'Ah , said Mr. Pickwick , half aside to Sam , 'it's a curious circumstance , Sam , that they call the old women in these inns , laundresses . 
I wonder what's that for ? ''Cos they has a mortal awersion to washing anythin' , I suppose , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'I have very particular business with him , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Won't it do in the morning ? said the woman . 
'Not so well , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well , said the old woman , 'if it was anything very particular , I was to say where he was , so I suppose there's no harm in telling . 
If you just go to the Magpie and Stump , and ask at the bar for Mr. Lowten , they'll show you in to him , and he's Mr. Perker's clerk . 
This favoured tavern , sacred to the evening orgies of Mr. Lowten and his companions , was what ordinary people would designate a public house . 
On Mr. Pickwick's presenting himself at the bar , an elderly female emerged from behind the screen therein , and presented herself before him . 
'Is Mr. Lowten here , ma'am ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Yes , he is , Sir , replied the landlady . 
'Here , Charley , show the gentleman in to Mr. Lowten . 
'The gen'l'm'n can't go in just now , said a shambling pot boy , with a red head , 'cos' Mr. Lowten's a singin' a comic song , and he'll put him out . 
He'll be done directly , Sir . 
The puffy faced young man rose , and drawing a chair close to Mr. Pickwick in an obscure corner of the room , listened attentively to his tale of woe . 
'Ah , 'he said , when Mr. Pickwick had concluded , 'Dodson and Fogg sharp practice theirs capital men of business , Dodson and Fogg , sir . 
Mr. Pickwick admitted the sharp practice of Dodson and Fogg , and Lowten resumed . 
'That's exactly what I came here for , said Mr. Pickwick , handing over the document . 
'If anything particular occurs , you can write to me at the post office , Ipswich . 
You're come out of the country , I suppose . 
Would you like to join us ? Mr. Pickwick could not resist so tempting an opportunity of studying human nature . 
A profound silence , quite contrary to Mr. Pickwick's expectation , succeeded . 
'Not in the least , replied Mr. Pickwick 'I like it very much , although I am no smoker myself . 
'I should be very sorry to say I wasn't , interposed another gentleman on the opposite side of the table . 
'It's board and lodgings to me , is smoke . 
Mr. Pickwick glanced at the speaker , and thought that if it were washing too , it would be all the better . 
Here there was another pause . 
Mr. Pickwick was a stranger , and his coming had evidently cast a damp upon the party . 
Grundy's going to oblige the company with a song , said the chairman . 
'No , he ain't , said Mr. Grundy . 
'Why not ? said the chairman . 
'Because he can't , said Mr. Grundy . 
'You had better say he won't , replied the chairman . 
'Well , then , he won't , retorted Mr. Grundy . 
Mr. Grundy's positive refusal to gratify the company occasioned another silence . 
'Won't anybody enliven us ? said the chairman , despondingly . 
'Why don't you enliven us yourself , Mr. Chairman ? said a young man with a whisker , a squint , and an open shirt collar , from the bottom of the table . 
'Hear ! hear ! said the smoking gentleman , in the Mosaic jewellery . 
This was an unanswerable reply , and silence prevailed again . 
Curious little nooks in a great place , like London , these old inns are . 
'By Jove ! said the chairman , whispering across the table to Mr. Pickwick , 'you have hit upon something that one of us , at least , would talk upon for ever . 
You'll draw old Jack Bamber out he was never heard to talk about anything else but the inns , and he has lived alone in them till he's half crazy . 
This was the figure that now started forward , and burst into an animated torrent of words . 
'YOU ! said the old man contemptuously . 
The waiting the hope the disappointment the fear the misery the poverty the blight on his hopes , and end to his career the suicide perhaps , or the shabby , slipshod drunkard . 
Mr. Pickwick eyed the old man with great curiosity , and the remainder of the company smiled , and looked on in silence . 
'Talk of your German universities , said the little old man . 
'Pooh , pooh ! there's romance enough at home without going half a mile for it only people never think of it . 
'I never thought of the romance of this particular subject before , certainly , said Mr. Pickwick , laughing . 
'To be sure you didn't , said the little old man 'of course not . 
As a friend of mine used to say to me , What is there in chambers in particular ? Queer old places , said I. Not at all , said he . 
Lonely , said I. Not a bit of it , said he . 
He died one morning of apoplexy , as he was going to open his outer door . 
Fell with his head in his own letter box , and there he lay for eighteen months . 
Everybody thought he'd gone out of town . 
'And how was he found out at last ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'The benchers determined to have his door broken open , as he hadn't paid any rent for two years . 
Forced the lock and a very dusty skeleton in a blue coat , black knee shorts , and silks , fell forward in the arms of the porter who opened the door . 
Rather , perhaps rather , eh ? 'The little old man put his head more on one side , and rubbed his hands with unspeakable glee . 
'I know another case , said the little old man , when his chuckles had in some degree subsided . 
'It occurred in Clifford's Inn . 
Tenant of a top set bad character shut himself up in his bedroom closet , and took a dose of arsenic . 
The steward thought he had run away opened the door , and put a bill up . 
Another man came , took the chambers , furnished them , and went to live there . 
Somehow or other he couldn't sleep always restless and uncomfortable . 
I'll make the other room my bedchamber , and this my sitting room . 
I have felt this strange feeling before , said he , I cannot help thinking there's something wrong about that closet . 
'What strange things these are you tell us of , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , minutely scanning the old man's countenance , by the aid of his glasses . 
'Strange ! said the little old man . 
'Nonsense you think them strange , because you know nothing about it . 
They are funny , but not uncommon . 
'Funny ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick involuntarily . 
Ah , says he , if I hadn't been obliged to take that ugly article at the old broker's valuation , I might have got something comfortable for the money . 
He had hardly spoken the words , when a sound resembling a faint groan , appeared to issue from the interior of the case . 
Who are you ? said the new tenant , turning very pale poising the poker in his hand , however , and taking a very decent aim at the countenance of the figure . 
And pray , what do you want here ? faltered the tenant . 
In this room , replied the apparition , my worldly ruin was worked , and I and my children beggared . 
In this press , the papers in a long , long suit , which accumulated for years , were deposited . 
I terrified them from the spot , and since that day have prowled by night the only period at which I can revisit the earth about the scenes of my long protracted misery . 
This apartment is mine leave it to me . 
Say on , said the apparition sternly . 
Egad , that's very true I never thought of that before , said the ghost . 
You see , Sir , pursued the tenant , this is a very uncomfortable room . 
I will , replied the ghost we must be dull fellows very dull fellows , indeed I can't imagine how we can have been so stupid . 
With these words , the spirit disappeared and what is rather remarkable , added the old man , with a shrewd look round the table , 'he never came back again . 
'That ain't bad , if it's true , said the man in the Mosaic studs , lighting a fresh cigar . 
'IF ! exclaimed the old man , with a look of excessive contempt . 
'I shan't venture to say anything at all about it , seeing that I never heard the story , observed the owner of the Mosaic decorations . 
'I wish you would repeat it , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Ah , do , said Lowten , 'nobody has heard it but me , and I have nearly forgotten it . 
The old man looked round the table , and leered more horribly than ever , as if in triumph , at the attention which was depicted in every face . 
'In the Borough High Street , near St . 
George's Church , and on the same side of the way , stands , as most people know , the smallest of our debtors' prisons , the Marshalsea . 
The condemned felon has as good a yard for air and exercise in Newgate , as the insolvent debtor in the Marshalsea Prison . 
But this is past , in a better age , and the prison exists no longer . 
'It may be my fancy , or it may be that I cannot separate the place from the old recollections associated with it , but this part of London I cannot bear . 
His recollections were few enough , but they were all of one kind all connected with the poverty and misery of his parents . 
'The father and mother looked on upon this , and upon each other , with thoughts of agony they dared not breathe in words . 
The healthy , strong made man , who could have borne almost any fatigue of active exertion , was wasting beneath the close confinement and unhealthy atmosphere of a crowded prison . 
The slight and delicate woman was sinking beneath the combined effects of bodily and mental illness . 
The child's young heart was breaking . 
'Winter came , and with it weeks of cold and heavy rain . 
For two months , she and her little companion watched the opening of the gate as usual . 
One day she failed to come , for the first time . 
Another morning arrived , and she came alone . 
The child had sat at his parents' feet for hours together , with his little hands patiently folded in each other , and his thin wan face raised towards them . 
'It was plain to those who looked upon the mother's altered face , that death must soon close the scene of her adversity and trial . 
Her husband's fellow prisoners shrank from obtruding on his grief and misery , and left to himself alone , the small room he had previously occupied in common with two companions . 
She shared it with him and lingering on without pain , but without hope , her life ebbed slowly away . 
Set me down , George , she said faintly . 
He did so , and seating himself beside her , covered his face with his hands , and burst into tears . 
It is very hard to leave you , George , she said but it is God's will , and you must bear it for my sake . 
Oh ! how I thank Him for having taken our boy ! He is happy , and in heaven now . 
What would he have done here , without his mother ! You shall not die , Mary , you shall not die said the husband , starting up . 
Never again , George never again , said the dying woman . 
Dear George , promise me you will . 
I do , I do , said the man , throwing himself passionately on his knees before her . 
Speak to me , Mary , another word one look but one ! 'He ceased to speak for the arm that clasped his neck grew stiff and heavy . 
He was alone in the world . 
His eyes were bloodshot and heavy , his face a deadly white , and his body bent as if with age . 
'It was necessary that his wife's body should be removed from the prison , without delay . 
He received the communication with perfect calmness , and acquiesced in its propriety . 
The rude coffin was borne slowly forward on men's shoulders . 
A dead silence pervaded the throng , broken only by the audible lamentations of the women , and the shuffling steps of the bearers on the stone pavement . 
They reached the spot where the bereaved husband stood and stopped . 
He laid his hand upon the coffin , and mechanically adjusting the pall with which it was covered , motioned them onward . 
The turnkeys in the prison lobby took off their hats as it passed through , and in another moment the heavy gate closed behind it . 
He looked vacantly upon the crowd , and fell heavily to the ground . 
He reached it he was close upon it . 
The old man saw him coming , and vainly strove to elude his grasp . 
But he clasped him tight , and dragged him beneath the water . 
Down , down with him , fifty fathoms down his struggles grew fainter and fainter , until they wholly ceased . 
He was dead he had killed him , and had kept his oath . 
'He was traversing the scorching sands of a mighty desert , barefoot and alone . 
The sand choked and blinded him its fine thin grains entered the very pores of his skin , and irritated him almost to madness . 
Gigantic masses of the same material , carried forward by the wind , and shone through by the burning sun , stalked in the distance like pillars of living fire . 
Vainly striving to utter a cry of terror , with his tongue cleaving to his mouth , he rushed madly forward . 
Armed with supernatural strength , he waded through the sand , until , exhausted with fatigue and thirst , he fell senseless on the earth . 
What fragrant coolness revived him what gushing sound was that ? Water ! It was indeed a well and the clear fresh stream was running at his feet . 
He drank deeply of it , and throwing his aching limbs upon the bank , sank into a delicious trance . 
The sound of approaching footsteps roused him . 
An old gray headed man tottered forward to slake his burning thirst . 
It was HE again ! Fe wound his arms round the old man's body , and held him back . 
He awoke to this , and he awoke to more . 
And here , some evil spirit cast in his way the opportunity for his first , most horrible revenge . 
Hasten here , Sir , in God's name help , help , sir , for the love of Heaven . 
He is my son , Sir , my only son ! said the old man frantically , as he advanced to meet him . 
Great God ! exclaimed the old man , recoiling , Heyling ! 'The stranger smiled , and was silent . 
Hark ! said the old man . 
Heyling , save him , save him ! 'The stranger smiled again , and remained immovable as a statue . 
I have wronged you , shrieked the old man , falling on his knees , and clasping his hands together . 
MY child died , before his father's eyes , a far more agonising and painful death than that young slanderer of his sister's worth is meeting while I speak . 
You laughed laughed in your daughter's face , where death had already set his hand at our sufferings , then . 
What think you of them now ! See there , see there ! 'As the stranger spoke , he pointed to the sea . 
I wish you to undertake some legal business for me , said the stranger . 
'The attorney bowed obsequiously , and glanced at a large packet which the gentleman carried in his hand . 
His visitor observed the look , and proceeded . 
It is no common business , said he nor have these papers reached my hands without long trouble and great expense . 
Upon these papers , said the client , the man whose name they bear , has raised , as you will see , large sums of money , for years past . 
Such an understanding is nowhere expressed . 
He has sustained many losses of late and these obligations accumulating upon him at once , would crush him to the earth . 
The whole amount is many thousands of pounds , said the attorney , looking over the papers . 
It is , said the client . 
What are we to do ? inquired the man of business . 
Do ! replied the client , with sudden vehemence . 
I would have him die a harassing and lingering death . 
But the costs , my dear Sir , the costs of all this , reasoned the attorney , when he had recovered from his momentary surprise . 
Don't be afraid to name it , man . 
I shall not think it dear , if you gain my object . 
The stranger wrote a cheque upon his banker , for the whole amount , and left him . 
'The draft was duly honoured , and the attorney , finding that his strange client might be safely relied upon , commenced his work in earnest . 
To all applications for a brief indulgence , there was but one reply the money must be paid . 
'The implacable animosity of Heyling , so far from being satiated by the success of his persecution , increased a hundredfold with the ruin he inflicted . 
On being informed of the old man's flight , his fury was unbounded . 
He gnashed his teeth with rage , tore the hair from his head , and assailed with horrid imprecations the men who had been intrusted with the writ . 
He was only restored to comparative calmness by repeated assurances of the certainty of discovering the fugitive . 
Half a year had passed over , and he was still undiscovered . 
Having closed the door , to prevent being overheard , he sank into a chair , and said , in a low voice Hush ! I have found him at last . 
No ! said the attorney . 
Well done , my dear sir , well done . 
He lies concealed in a wretched lodging in Camden Town , said Heyling . 
Very good , said the attorney . 
You will have the caption made to morrow , of course ? Yes , replied Heyling . 
Stay ! No ! The next day . 
You are surprised at my wishing to postpone it , he added , with a ghastly smile but I had forgotten . 
The next day is an anniversary in his life let it be done then . 
Very good , said the attorney . 
Will you write down instructions for the officer ? No let him meet me here , at eight in the evening , and I will accompany him myself . 
'The object of his search and his unrelenting animosity , now a decrepit old man , was seated at a bare deal table , on which stood a miserable candle . 
He started on the entrance of the stranger , and rose feebly to his feet . 
What now , what now ? said the old man . 
What fresh misery is this ? What do you want here ? A word with YOU , replied Heyling . 
As he spoke , he seated himself at the other end of the table , and , throwing off his cloak and cap , disclosed his features . 
'The old man seemed instantly deprived of speech . 
He fell backward in his chair , and , clasping his hands together , gazed on the apparition with a mingled look of abhorrence and fear . 
This day six years , said Heyling , I claimed the life you owed me for my child's . 
Beside the lifeless form of your daughter , old man , I swore to live a life of revenge . 
My first act of requital you well remember this is my last . 
'The old man shivered , and his hands dropped powerless by his side . 
I leave England to morrow , said Heyling , after a moment's pause . 
To night I consign you to the living death to which you devoted her a hopeless prison 'He raised his eyes to the old man's countenance , and paused . 
He lifted the light to his face , set it gently down , and left the apartment . 
You had better see to the old man , he said to the woman , as he opened the door , and motioned the officer to follow him into the street . 
I think he is ill . 
The woman closed the door , ran hastily upstairs , and found him lifeless . 
'The governor hisself'll be down here presently . 
'He's a cabbin' it , I suppose ? said the father . 
'Yes , he's a havin' two mile o' danger at eight pence , responded the son . 
'How's mother in law this mornin' ? 'Queer , Sammy , queer , replied the elder Mr. Weller , with impressive gravity . 
'She's been gettin' rayther in the Methodistical order lately , Sammy and she is uncommon pious , to be sure . 
She's too good a creetur for me , Sammy . 
I feel I don't deserve her . 
'Ah , said Mr. Samuel . 
'that's wery self denyin' o' you . 
'Wery , replied his parent , with a sigh . 
'She's got hold o' some inwention for grown up people being born again , Sammy the new birth , I think they calls it . 
I should wery much like to see that system in haction , Sammy . 
I should wery much like to see your mother in law born again . 
'I was a standing starin' in at the pictur shop down at our place , when I sees a little bill about it tickets half a crown . 
All applications to be made to the committee . 
Secretary , Mrs. Weller and when I got home there was the committee a sittin' in our back parlour . 
Fourteen women I wish you could ha' heard 'em , Sammy . 
There they was , a passin' resolutions , and wotin' supplies , and all sorts o' games . 
At it they went , tooth and nail . 
I never see such a chap to eat and drink never . 
The red nosed man warn't by no means the sort of person you'd like to grub by contract , but he was nothin' to the shepherd . 
I thought it was rather sing'ler , but howsoever , I says nothing . 
I wish you could ha' heard how the women screamed , Sammy , ven they picked up the shepherd from underneath the table Hollo ! here's the governor , the size of life . 
As Mr. Weller spoke , Mr. Pickwick dismounted from a cab , and entered the yard . 
'Fine mornin' , Sir , said Mr. Weller , senior . 
'Beautiful indeed , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Beautiful indeed , echoes a red haired man with an inquisitive nose and green spectacles , who had unpacked himself from a cab at the same moment as Mr. Pickwick . 
'Going to Ipswich , Sir ? 'I am , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
So am I. Mr. Pickwick bowed . 
'Going outside ? said the red haired man . 
'Bless my soul , how remarkable I am going outside , too , said the red haired man 'we are positively going together . 
'I am happy in the prospect of your company , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'That's what I call a self evident proposition , as the dog's meat man said , when the housemaid told him he warn't a gentleman . 
'Ah , said the red haired man , surveying Mr. Weller from head to foot with a supercilious look . 
'Friend of yours , sir ? 'Not exactly a friend , replied Mr. Pickwick , in a low tone . 
'Ah , said the red haired man , 'that , you see , is a matter of taste . 
I am not fond of anything original I don't like it don't see the necessity for it . 
What's your name , sir ? 'Here is my card , sir , replied Mr. Pickwick , much amused by the abruptness of the question , and the singular manner of the stranger . 
'Ah , said the red haired man , placing the card in his pocket book , 'Pickwick very good . 
I like to know a man's name , it saves so much trouble . 
That's my card , sir . 
Magnus , you will perceive , sir Magnus is my name . 
It's rather a good name , I think , sir . 
'A very good name , indeed , said Mr. Pickwick , wholly unable to repress a smile . 
'Yes , I think it is , resumed Mr. Magnus . 
'There's a good name before it , too , you will observe . 
Permit me , sir if you hold the card a little slanting , this way , you catch the light upon the up stroke . 
There Peter Magnus sounds well , I think , sir . 
'Very , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Curious circumstance about those initials , sir , said Mr. Magnus . 
'You will observe P. M. post meridian . 
In hasty notes to intimate acquaintance , I sometimes sign myself Afternoon . 
It amuses my friends very much , Mr. Pickwick . 
'It is calculated to afford them the highest gratification , I should conceive , said Mr. Pickwick , rather envying the ease with which Mr. Magnus's friends were entertained . 
'Now , gen'l'm'n , said the hostler , 'coach is ready , if you please . 
'Is all my luggage in ? inquired Mr. Magnus . 
'Is the red bag in ? 'All right , Sir . 
'And the striped bag ? 'Fore boot , Sir . 
'And the brown paper parcel ? 'Under the seat , Sir . 
'And the leather hat box ? 'They're all in , Sir . 
'Now , will you get up ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Excuse me , replied Magnus , standing on the wheel . 
'Excuse me , Mr. Pickwick . 
I cannot consent to get up , in this state of uncertainty . 
I am quite satisfied from that man's manner , that the leather hat box is not in . 
'You're given to nervousness , ain't you , Sir ? inquired Mr. Weller , senior , eyeing the stranger askance , as he mounted to his place . 
'Yes I always am rather about these little matters , said the stranger , 'but I am all right now quite right . 
'Well , that's a blessin' , said Mr. Weller . 
'Sammy , help your master up to the box t'other leg , Sir , that's it give us your hand , Sir . 
You was a lighter weight when you was a boy , sir . 
'True enough , that , Mr. Weller , said the breathless Mr. Pickwick good humouredly , as he took his seat on the box beside him . 
'Jump up in front , Sammy , said Mr. Weller . 
'Now Villam , run 'em out . 
Take care o' the archvay , gen'l'm'n . 
Heads , as the pieman says . 
And away went the coach up Whitechapel , to the admiration of the whole population of that pretty densely populated quarter . 
'Not a wery nice neighbourhood , this , Sir , said Sam , with a touch of the hat , which always preceded his entering into conversation with his master . 
'It is not indeed , Sam , replied Mr. Pickwick , surveying the crowded and filthy street through which they were passing . 
'It's a wery remarkable circumstance , Sir , said Sam , 'that poverty and oysters always seem to go together . 
'I don't understand you , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'What I mean , sir , said Sam , 'is , that the poorer a place is , the greater call there seems to be for oysters . 
Look here , sir here's a oyster stall to every half dozen houses . 
The street's lined vith 'em . 
Blessed if I don't think that ven a man's wery poor , he rushes out of his lodgings , and eats oysters in reg'lar desperation . 
'The very first place we stop at , I'll make a note of them . 
'A what ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'What do you mean by a pike keeper ? inquired Mr. Peter Magnus . 
'The old 'un means a turnpike keeper , gen'l'm'n , observed Mr. Samuel Weller , in explanation . 
'Oh , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I see . 
'They're all on 'em men as has met vith some disappointment in life , said Mr. Weller , senior . 
'Ay , ay , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Dear me , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I never knew that before . 
'Fact , Sir , said Mr. Weller 'if they was gen'l'm'n , you'd call 'em misanthropes , but as it is , they only takes to pike keepin' . 
With such conversation , possessing the inestimable charm of blending amusement with instruction , did Mr. Weller beguile the tediousness of the journey , during the greater part of the day . 
The Great White Horse is famous in the neighbourhood , in the same degree as a prize ox , or a county paper chronicled turnip , or unwieldy pig for its enormous size . 
'Do you stop here , sir ? 'I do , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Dear me , said Mr. Magnus , 'I never knew anything like these extraordinary coincidences . 
Why , I stop here too . 
I hope we dine together ? 'With pleasure , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'I am not quite certain whether I have any friends here or not , though . 
'No ! 'Nor Winkle ? 'No ! 'My friends have not arrived to day , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'We will dine alone , then . 
Show us a private room , waiter . 
Mr. Peter Magnus was naturally of a very communicative disposition , and the brandy and water operated with wonderful effect in warming into life the deepest hidden secrets of his bosom . 
'Partly right , Sir , replied Mr. Peter Magnus , 'but partly wrong at the same time try again , Mr. Pickwick . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Magnus . 
'But do you really think so , Mr. Pickwick ? Do you , though ? 'Certainly , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'No but you're joking , though . 
'I am not , indeed . 
'Why , then , said Mr. Magnus , 'to let you into a little secret , I think so too . 
I don't mind telling you , Mr. Pickwick , although I'm dreadful jealous by nature horrid that the lady is in this house . 
Here Mr. Magnus took off his spectacles , on purpose to wink , and then put them on again . 
'That's what you were running out of the room for , before dinner , then , so often , said Mr. Pickwick archly . 
'Hush ! Yes , you're right , that was it not such a fool as to see her , though . 
'No ! 'No wouldn't do , you know , after having just come off a journey . 
Wait till to morrow , sir double the chance then . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Yes you must have observed my anxiety about them to day . 
I do not believe that such another suit of clothes , and such a hat , could be bought for money , Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick congratulated the fortunate owner of the irresistible garments on their acquisition and Mr. Peter Magnus remained a few moments apparently absorbed in contemplation . 
'She's a fine creature , said Mr. Magnus . 
'Is she ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Very , said Mr. Magnus . 
She lives about twenty miles from here , Mr. Pickwick . 
I heard she would be here to night and all to morrow forenoon , and came down to seize the opportunity . 
I think an inn is a good sort of a place to propose to a single woman in , Mr. Pickwick . 
She is more likely to feel the loneliness of her situation in travelling , perhaps , than she would be at home . 
What do you think , Mr. Pickwick ? 'I think it is very probable , replied that gentleman . 
'I have come down here , Sir , to expose the treachery and falsehood of an individual , upon whose truth and honour I placed implicit reliance . 
'Dear me , said Mr. Peter Magnus , 'that's very unpleasant . 
It is a lady , I presume ? Eh ? ah ! Sly , Mr. Pickwick , sly . 
Well , Mr. Pickwick , sir , I wouldn't probe your feelings for the world . 
Painful subjects , these , sir , very painful . 
Don't mind me , Mr. Pickwick , if you wish to give vent to your feelings . 
I know what it is to be jilted , Sir I have endured that sort of thing three or four times . 
I see , I see . 
What's the time , Mr. Pickwick ? 'Past twelve . 
'Dear me , it's time to go to bed . 
It will never do , sitting here . 
I shall be pale to morrow , Mr. Pickwick . 
'This is your room , sir , said the chambermaid . 
'Very well , replied Mr. Pickwick , looking round him . 
'Nobody sleeps in the other bed , of course , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Oh , no , Sir . 
Tell my servant to bring me up some hot water at half past eight in the morning , and that I shall not want him any more to night . 
'Yes , Sir , and bidding Mr. Pickwick good night , the chambermaid retired , and left him alone . 
Mr. Pickwick sat himself down in a chair before the fire , and fell into a train of rambling meditations . 
So he roused himself , and began to undress , when he recollected he had left his watch on the table downstairs . 
The possibility of going to sleep , unless it were ticking gently beneath his pillow , or in the watch pocket over his head , had never entered Mr. Pickwick's brain . 
At last he reached a stone hall , which he remembered to have seen when he entered the house . 
Mr. Pickwick seized the watch in triumph , and proceeded to retrace his steps to his bedchamber . 
If his progress downward had been attended with difficulties and uncertainty , his journey back was infinitely more perplexing . 
Rows of doors , garnished with boots of every shape , make , and size , branched off in every possible direction . 
He was reduced to the verge of despair , when an open door attracted his attention . 
Right at last ! There were the two beds , whose situation he perfectly remembered , and the fire still burning . 
'No matter , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I can undress myself just as well by the light of the fire . 
Having carefully drawn the curtains of his bed on the outside , Mr. Pickwick sat down on the rush bottomed chair , and leisurely divested himself of his shoes and gaiters . 
It was at this moment that the absurdity of his recent bewilderment struck upon his mind . 
Droll , droll , very droll . 
The smile that played on Mr. Pickwick's features was instantaneously lost in a look of the most unbounded and wonder stricken surprise . 
The person , whoever it was , had come in so suddenly and with so little noise , that Mr. Pickwick had had no time to call out , or oppose their entrance . 
Who could it be ? A robber ? Some evil minded person who had seen him come upstairs with a handsome watch in his hand , perhaps . 
To this manoeuvre he accordingly resorted . 
Mr. Pickwick almost fainted with horror and dismay . 
Standing before the dressing glass was a middle aged lady , in yellow curl papers , busily engaged in brushing what ladies call their 'back hair . 
'Bless my soul ! thought Mr. Pickwick , 'what a dreadful thing ! 'Hem ! said the lady and in went Mr. Pickwick's head with automaton like rapidity . 
'I never met with anything so awful as this , thought poor Mr. Pickwick , the cold perspiration starting in drops upon his nightcap . 
It was quite impossible to resist the urgent desire to see what was going forward . 
So out went Mr. Pickwick's head again . 
The prospect was worse than before . 
The middle aged lady had finished arranging her hair had carefully enveloped it in a muslin nightcap with a small plaited border and was gazing pensively on the fire . 
'This matter is growing alarming , reasoned Mr. Pickwick with himself . 
'I can't allow things to go on in this way . 
By the self possession of that lady , it is clear to me that I must have come into the wrong room . 
If I call out she'll alarm the house but if I remain here the consequences will be still more frightful . 
Mr. Pickwick , it is quite unnecessary to say , was one of the most modest and delicate minded of mortals . 
The disclosure must be made . 
There was only one other way of doing it . 
'Most extraordinary female this , thought Mr. Pickwick , popping in again . 
'Gracious Heaven ! said the middle aged lady , 'what's that ? 'It's it's only a gentleman , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick , from behind the curtains . 
'A gentleman ! said the lady , with a terrific scream . 
'It's all over ! thought Mr. Pickwick . 
'A strange man ! shrieked the lady . 
Another instant and the house would be alarmed . 
Her garments rustled as she rushed towards the door . 
'Ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick , thrusting out his head . 
The lady , as we have already stated , was near the door . 
'Wretch , said the lady , covering her eyes with her hands , 'what do you want here ? 'Nothing , ma'am nothing whatever , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick earnestly . 
'Nothing ! said the lady , looking up . 
'Nothing , ma'am , upon my honour , said Mr. Pickwick , nodding his head so energetically , that the tassel of his nightcap danced again . 
It is evident to me , ma'am , now , that I have mistaken this bedroom for my own . 
I had not been here five minutes , ma'am , when you suddenly entered it . 
'If this improbable story be really true , Sir , said the lady , sobbing violently , 'you will leave it instantly . 
'I will , ma'am , with the greatest pleasure , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Instantly , sir , said the lady . 
'Certainly , ma'am , interposed Mr. Pickwick , very quickly . 
The lady pointed to the door . 
One excellent quality of Mr. Pickwick's character was beautifully displayed at this moment , under the most trying circumstances . 
'I am exceedingly sorry , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick , bowing very low . 
'If you are , Sir , you will at once leave the room , said the lady . 
'Immediately , ma'am this instant , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick , opening the door , and dropping both his shoes with a crash in so doing . 
Whatever grounds of self congratulation Mr. Pickwick might have for having escaped so quietly from his late awkward situation , his present position was by no means enviable . 
He had no resource but to remain where he was until daylight appeared . 
His horror was suddenly converted into joy , however , when he recognised the form of his faithful attendant . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , as he got into bed , 'I have made one of the most extraordinary mistakes to night , that ever were heard of . 
'Wery likely , Sir , replied Mr. Weller drily . 
'That's the wery prudentest resolution as you could come to , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'You rayther want somebody to look arter you , Sir , when your judgment goes out a wisitin' . 
'What do you mean by that , Sam ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Good night , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
He was sitting in an excellent attitude for having his portrait taken and here it is . 
It is very possible that at some earlier period of his career , Mr. Weller's profile might have presented a bold and determined outline . 
His hair , which was short , sleek , and black , was just visible beneath the capacious brim of a low crowned brown hat . 
We have said that Mr. Weller was engaged in preparing for his journey to London he was taking sustenance , in fact . 
He had just cut a mighty slice from the latter , when the footsteps of somebody entering the room , caused him to raise his head and he beheld his son . 
'Mornin' , Sammy ! said the father . 
The son walked up to the pot of ale , and nodding significantly to his parent , took a long draught by way of reply . 
'Wery good power o' suction , Sammy , said Mr. Weller the elder , looking into the pot , when his first born had set it down half empty . 
'You'd ha' made an uncommon fine oyster , Sammy , if you'd been born in that station o' life . 
'Yes , I des say , I should ha' managed to pick up a respectable livin' , replied Sam applying himself to the cold beef , with considerable vigour . 
'I'm wery sorry , Sammy , said the elder Mr. Weller , shaking up the ale , by describing small circles with the pot , preparatory to drinking . 
'I'm wery sorry , Sammy , to hear from your lips , as you let yourself be gammoned by that 'ere mulberry man . 
I always thought , up to three days ago , that the names of Veller and gammon could never come into contract , Sammy , never . 
'Always exceptin' the case of a widder , of course , said Sam . 
'Widders , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller , slightly changing colour . 
'Widders are 'ceptions to ev'ry rule . 
I have heerd how many ordinary women one widder's equal to in pint o' comin' over you . 
I think it's five and twenty , but I don't rightly know vether it ain't more . 
'Well that's pretty well , said Sam . 
'Besides , continued Mr. Weller , not noticing the interruption , 'that's a wery different thing . 
You know what the counsel said , Sammy , as defended the gen'l'm'n as beat his wife with the poker , venever he got jolly . 
And arter all , my Lord , says he , it's a amiable weakness . 
So I says respectin' widders , Sammy , and so you'll say , ven you gets as old as me . 
'I ought to ha' know'd better , I know , said Sam . 
'Ought to ha' know'd better ! repeated Mr. Weller , striking the table with his fist . 
In the excitement of feeling produced by this agonising reflection , Mr. Weller rang the bell , and ordered an additional pint of ale . 
'Well , it's no use talking about it now , said Sam . 
'It's over , and can't be helped , and that's one consolation , as they always says in Turkey , ven they cuts the wrong man's head off . 
It's my innings now , gov'nor , and as soon as I catches hold o' this 'ere Trotter , I'll have a good 'un . 
'I hope you will , Sammy . 
I hope you will , returned Mr. Weller . 
'Here's your health , Sammy , and may you speedily vipe off the disgrace as you've inflicted on the family name . 
'And now , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , consulting a large double faced silver watch that hung at the end of the copper chain . 
At this parental and professional joke , Mr. Weller , junior , smiled a filial smile . 
His revered parent continued in a solemn tone 'I'm a goin' to leave you , Samivel , my boy , and there's no telling ven I shall see you again . 
The family name depends wery much upon you , Samivel , and I hope you'll do wot's right by it . 
Upon all little pints o' breedin' , I know I may trust you as vell as if it was my own self . 
So I've only this here one little bit of adwice to give you . 
Hangin's wulgar , so don't you have nothin' to say to that . 
Pison yourself , Samivel , my boy , pison yourself , and you'll be glad on it arterwards . 
With these affecting words , Mr. Weller looked steadfastly on his son , and turning slowly upon his heel , disappeared from his sight . 
In the contemplative mood which these words had awakened , Mr. Samuel Weller walked forth from the Great White Horse when his father had left him and bending his steps towards St . 
Clement's Church , endeavoured to dissipate his melancholy , by strolling among its ancient precincts . 
He was about retracing his steps , when he was suddenly transfixed to the spot by a sudden appearance and the mode and manner of this appearance , we now proceed to relate . 
It is clear , therefore , that there must have been something in the man , or in his manner , or both , to attract Mr. Weller's particular notice . 
Whether there was , or not , we must leave the reader to determine , when we have faithfully recorded the behaviour of the individual in question . 
He therefore resumed his brisk pace , and advanced , staring straight before him . 
The most extraordinary thing about the man was , that he was contorting his face into the most fearful and astonishing grimaces that ever were beheld . 
Nature's handiwork never was disguised with such extraordinary artificial carving , as the man had overlaid his countenance with in one moment . 
'Well ! said Mr. Weller to himself , as the man approached . 
I could ha' swore it was him . 
Up came the man , and his face became more frightfully distorted than ever , as he drew nearer . 
'I could take my oath to that 'ere black hair and mulberry suit , said Mr. Weller 'only I never see such a face as that afore . 
As Mr. Weller said this , the man's features assumed an unearthly twinge , perfectly hideous . 
'Hollo , you Sir ! shouted Sam fiercely . 
'Hollo ! repeated Sam , still more gruffly . 
'Hollo , you sir ! said Sam , for the third time . 
There was no pretending to mistake where the voice came from now , so the stranger , having no other resource , at last looked Sam Weller full in the face . 
'It won't do , Job Trotter , said Sam . 
'Come ! None o' that 'ere nonsense . 
You ain't so wery 'andsome that you can afford to throw avay many o' your good looks . 
Bring them 'ere eyes o' yourn back into their proper places , or I'll knock 'em out of your head . 
'Get off ! cried Sam , indignant at this process , and vainly endeavouring to extricate himself from the grasp of his enthusiastic acquaintance . 
'Get off , I tell you . 
'Oh , Mr. Walker , this is too much . 
'What have you got to say to me , afore I knock your head off ? repeated Mr. Weller , in a threatening manner . 
'Eh ! said Mr. Trotter , with a look of virtuous surprise . 
'What have you got to say to me ? 'I , Mr. Walker ! 'Don't call me Valker my name's Veller you know that vell enough . 
If you knew how I have looked for you , Mr. Weller 'Wery hard , indeed , I s'pose ? said Sam drily . 
'Very , very , Sir , replied Mr. Trotter , without moving a muscle of his face . 
'But shake hands , Mr. Weller . 
Sam eyed his companion for a few seconds , and then , as if actuated by a sudden impulse , complied with his request . 
Sam constrained himself , however , and replied that his master was extremely well . 
'Oh , I am so glad , replied Mr. Trotter 'is he here ? 'Is yourn ? asked Sam , by way of reply . 
'Oh , yes , he is here , and I grieve to say , Mr. Weller , he is going on worse than ever . 
'Ah , ah ! said Sam . 
'Oh , shocking terrible ! 'At a boarding school ? said Sam . 
'No , not at a boarding school , replied Job Trotter , with the same sly look which Sam had noticed before 'not at a boarding school . 
'At the house with the green gate ? said Sam , eyeing his companion closely . 
'No , no oh , not there , replied Job , with a quickness very unusual to him , 'not there . 
'What was you a doin' there ? asked Sam , with a sharp glance . 
You recollect how pleasant we were that morning ? 'Oh , yes , said Sam , impatiently . 
'So I should think , from the look on it , interposed Sam . 
'Ah , and a wery amiable chandler you'll make , replied Sam , eyeing Job with a side look of intense dislike . 
'You must ha' been wery nicely brought up , said Sam . 
'Oh , very , Mr. Weller , very , replied Job . 
At the recollection of the purity of his youthful days , Mr. Trotter pulled forth the pink handkerchief , and wept copiously . 
'You must ha' been an uncommon nice boy , to go to school vith , said Sam . 
'I was , sir , replied Job , heaving a deep sigh 'I was the idol of the place . 
'Ah , said Sam , 'I don't wonder at it . 
What a comfort you must ha' been to your blessed mother . 
At these words , Mr. Job Trotter inserted an end of the pink handkerchief into the corner of each eye , one after the other , and began to weep copiously . 
'Wot's the matter with the man , said Sam , indignantly . 
'Chelsea water works is nothin' to you . 
What are you melting vith now ? The consciousness o' willainy ? 'I cannot keep my feelings down , Mr. Weller , said Job , after a short pause . 
'Oh , that was the vay , was it ? said Mr. Weller . 
'To be sure it was , replied Job . 
'I shall be sure to come , said Job . 
'I shall be sure to be with you , sir , said Mr. Trotter and wringing Sam's hand with the utmost fervour , he walked away . 
'Take care , Job Trotter , take care , said Sam , looking after him , 'or I shall be one too many for you this time . 
Having uttered this soliloquy , and looked after Job till he was to be seen no more , Mr. Weller made the best of his way to his master's bedroom . 
'It's all in training , Sir , said Sam . 
'What's in training , Sam ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'I've found 'em out , Sir , said Sam . 
'Found out who ? 'That 'ere queer customer , and the melan cholly chap with the black hair . 
'Impossible , Sam ! said Mr. Pickwick , with the greatest energy . 
'But when is this to be done , Sam ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'All in good time , Sir , replied Sam . 
Whether it was done in good time , or not , will be seen hereafter . 
'Good morning , Sir , said Mr. Peter Magnus . 
'What do you think of this , Sir ? 'Very effective indeed , replied Mr. Pickwick , surveying the garments of Mr. Peter Magnus with a good natured smile . 
'Yes , I think it'll do , said Mr. Magnus . 
Pickwick , Sir , I have sent up my card . 
'Have you ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'And the waiter brought back word , that she would see me at eleven at eleven , Sir it only wants a quarter now . 
'Very near the time , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I believe it is , Sir , said Mr. Peter Magnus . 
'I am very confident , Sir . 
Really , Mr. Pickwick , I do not see why a man should feel any fear in such a case as this , sir . 
What is it , Sir ? There's nothing to be ashamed of it's a matter of mutual accommodation , nothing more . 
Husband on one side , wife on the other . 
That's my view of the matter , Mr. Pickwick . 
'It is a very philosophical one , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'But breakfast is waiting , Mr. Magnus . 
'He he he , 'tittered Mr. Magnus , affecting cheerfulness , and gasping with agitation . 
'It only wants two minutes , Mr. Pickwick . 
Am I pale , Sir ? 'Not very , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
There was a brief pause . 
'I beg your pardon , Mr. Pickwick but have you ever done this sort of thing in your time ? said Mr. Magnus . 
'You mean proposing ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Never , said Mr. Pickwick , with great energy , 'never . 
'You have no idea , then , how it's best to begin ? said Mr. Magnus . 
'Well , sir , said Mr. Pickwick , with the profound solemnity with which that great man could , when he pleased , render his remarks so deeply impressive . 
'I should commence , sir , with a tribute to the lady's beauty and excellent qualities from them , Sir , I should diverge to my own unworthiness . 
'Very good , said Mr. Magnus . 
I should argue , by analogy , that to anybody else , I must be a very desirable object . 
I should then expatiate on the warmth of my love , and the depth of my devotion . 
Perhaps I might then be tempted to seize her hand . 
'Yes , I see , said Mr. Magnus 'that would be a very great point . 
'You think that may be taken for granted ? said Mr. Magnus 'because , if she did not do that at the right place , it would be embarrassing . 
'I think she would , said Mr. Pickwick . 
shook him warmly by the hand , and rushed desperately from the room . 
As Mr. Pickwick greeted them , Mr. Peter Magnus tripped into the room . 
'My friends , the gentleman I was speaking of Mr. Magnus , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Your servant , gentlemen , said Mr. Magnus , evidently in a high state of excitement 'Mr . 
Pickwick , allow me to speak to you one moment , sir . 
'And it was all correct , was it ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
Could not possibly have been better , replied Mr. Magnus . 
Pickwick , she is mine . 
'I congratulate you , with all my heart , replied Mr. Pickwick , warmly shaking his new friend by the hand . 
Sir , said Mr. Magnus 'this way , if you please . 
Excuse us for one instant , gentlemen . 
Hurrying on in this way , Mr. Peter Magnus drew Mr. Pickwick from the room . 
He paused at the next door in the passage , and tapped gently thereat . 
'Come in , said a female voice . 
'Miss Witherfield , said Mr. Magnus , 'allow me to introduce my very particular friend , Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick , I beg to make you known to Miss Witherfield . 
The lady was at the upper end of the room . 
So the lady screamed , and Mr. Pickwick started . 
'Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , somewhat indignant at the very sudden manner in which Mr. Peter Magnus had conjugated himself into the imperative mood , 'I decline answering that question . 
'You decline it , Sir ? said Mr. Magnus . 
'I do , Sir , replied Mr. Pickwick 'I object to say anything which may compromise that lady , or awaken unpleasant recollections in her breast , without her consent and permission . 
'Miss Witherfield , said Mr. Peter Magnus , 'do you know this person ? 'Know him ! repeated the middle aged lady , hesitating . 
'Yes , know him , ma'am I said know him , replied Mr. Magnus , with ferocity . 
'I have seen him , replied the middle aged lady . 
'Where ? inquired Mr. Magnus , 'where ? 'That , said the middle aged lady , rising from her seat , and averting her head 'that I would not reveal for worlds . 
'I understand you , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick , 'and respect your delicacy it shall never be revealed by ME depend upon it . 
'Cruel Mr. Magnus ! said the middle aged lady here she wept very copiously indeed . 
'Address your observations to me , sir , interposed Mr. Pickwick 'I alone am to blame , if anybody be . 
'Oh ! you alone are to blame , are you , sir ? said Mr. Magnus 'I I see through this , sir . 
You repent of your determination now , do you ? 'My determination ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
Oh ! don't stare at me , Sir , said Mr. Magnus 'I recollect your words last night , Sir . 
'Eh ? said Mr. Magnus and then he repeated the sneer with increased effect . 
'But you shall answer it , Sir . 
'Answer what ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Never mind , sir , replied Mr. Magnus , striding up and down the room . 
'Do you call yourself a gentleman , sir ? 'Never mind , sir . 
'Did I offer to say anything to the young woman , sir ? 'Never mind , sir . 
'Do you want your head knocked up against that wall , sir ? 'Never mind , sir . 
As Mr. Pickwick said this , he looked encyclopedias at Mr. Peter Magnus . 
Filled with these reflections , the middle aged lady arrayed herself in her bonnet and shawl , and repaired to the mayor's dwelling straightway . 
And Mr. Nupkins was sitting in his easy chair , frowning with majesty , and boiling with rage , when a lady was announced on pressing , private , and particular business . 
'Muzzle ! said the magistrate . 
Muzzle was an undersized footman , with a long body and short legs . 
'Muzzle ! 'Yes , your Worship . 
'Place a chair , and leave the room . 
'Now , ma'am , will you state your business ? said the magistrate . 
'It is of a very painful kind , Sir , said Miss Witherfield . 
'Very likely , ma'am , said the magistrate . 
'Compose your feelings , ma'am . 
Here Mr. Nupkins looked benignant . 
'And then tell me what legal business brings you here , ma'am . 
Here the magistrate triumphed over the man and he looked stern again . 
'It is very distressing to me , Sir , to give this information , said Miss Witherfield , 'but I fear a duel is going to be fought here . 
'Here , ma'am ? said the magistrate . 
'Where , ma'am ? 'In Ipswich . 
'In Ipswich , ma'am ! A duel in Ipswich ! said the magistrate , perfectly aghast at the notion . 
'Impossible , ma'am nothing of the kind can be contemplated in this town , I am persuaded . 
'My information is , unfortunately , but too correct , said the middle aged lady 'I was present at the quarrel . 
'It's a most extraordinary thing , said the astounded magistrate . 
'Muzzle ! 'Yes , your Worship . 
'Send Mr. Jinks here , directly ! Instantly . 
Muzzle retired and a pale , sharp nosed , half fed , shabbily clad clerk , of middle age , entered the room . 
Jinks , said the magistrate . 
'Sir , said Mr. Jinks . 
'This lady , Mr. Jinks , has come here , to give information of an intended duel in this town . 
Mr. Jinks , not knowing exactly what to do , smiled a dependent's smile . 
'What are you laughing at , Mr. Jinks ? said the magistrate . 
Mr. Jinks looked serious instantly . 
Jinks , said the magistrate , 'you're a fool . 
Mr. Jinks looked humbly at the great man , and bit the top of his pen . 
'You may see something very comical in this information , Sir but I can tell you this , Mr. Jinks , that you have very little to laugh at , said the magistrate . 
'This man , Pickwick , is the principal , I understand ? said the magistrate , when the statement was finished . 
'He is , said the middle aged lady . 
'And the other rioter what's his name , Mr. Jinks ? 'Tupman , Sir . 
'Tupman is the second ? 'Yes . 
'The other principal , you say , has absconded , ma'am ? 'Yes , replied Miss Witherfield , with a short cough . 
'Very well , said the magistrate . 
They shall be made an example of . 
Draw up the warrants , Mr. Jinks . 
Muzzle ! 'Yes , your Worship . 
'Is Grummer downstairs ? 'Yes , your Worship . 
'Grummer , said the magistrate . 
'Is the town quiet now ? 'Pretty well , your Wash up , replied Grummer . 
'Pop'lar feeling has in a measure subsided , consekens o' the boys having dispersed to cricket . 
'Nothing but vigorous measures will do in these times , Grummer , said the magistrate , in a determined manner . 
'if the authority of the king's officers is set at naught , we must have the riot act read . 
If the civil power cannot protect these windows , Grummer , the military must protect the civil power , and the windows too . 
I believe that is a maxim of the constitution , Mr. Jinks ? 'Certainly , sir , said Jinks . 
'Very good , said the magistrate , signing the warrants . 
'Grummer , you will bring these persons before me , this afternoon . 
You will find them at the Great White Horse . 
'This is even more unconstitutional , said the magistrate 'this is even a greater breach of the peace , and a grosser infringement of his Majesty's prerogative . 
I believe duelling is one of his Majesty's most undoubted prerogatives , Mr. Jinks ? 'Expressly stipulated in Magna Charta , sir , said Mr. Jinks . 
'One of the brightest jewels in the British crown , wrung from his Majesty by the barons , I believe , Mr. Jinks ? said the magistrate . 
'Just so , Sir , replied Mr. Jinks . 
'Very well , said the magistrate , drawing himself up proudly , 'it shall not be violated in this portion of his dominions . 
Grummer , procure assistance , and execute these warrants with as little delay as possible . 
Muzzle ! 'Yes , your Worship . 
Mr. Grummer's mode of proceeding was professional , but peculiar . 
Mr. Snodgrass was the first to break the astonished silence . 
He looked steadily at Mr. Grummer for a brief space , and then said emphatically , 'This is a private room , Sir . 
Mr. Grummer shook his head , and replied , 'No room's private to his Majesty when the street door's once passed . 
Some people maintains that an Englishman's house is his castle . 
The Pickwickians gazed on each other with wondering eyes . 
'Which is Mr. Tupman ? inquired Mr. Grummer . 
He had an intuitive perception of Mr. Pickwick he knew him at once . 
'My name's Tupman , said that gentleman . 
'My name's Law , said Mr. Grummer . 
'What ? said Mr. Tupman . 
'Law , replied Mr. Grummer 'Law , civil power , and exekative them's my titles here's my authority . 
Blank Tupman , blank Pickwick against the peace of our sufferin' lord the king stattit in the case made and purwided and all regular . 
I apprehend you Pickwick ! Tupman the aforesaid . 
'Well , said a deep voice from the passage . 
, and entered the room . 
'Is the other specials outside , Dubbley ? inquired Mr. Grummer . 
Mr. Dubbley , who was a man of few words , nodded assent . 
'Order in the diwision under your charge , Dubbley , said Mr. Grummer . 
Mr. Dubbley did as he was desired and half a dozen men , each with a short truncheon and a brass crown , flocked into the room . 
Mr. Grummer pocketed his staff , and looked at Mr. Dubbley Mr. Dubbley pocketed his staff and looked at the division the division pocketed their staves and looked at Messrs . 
Mr. Pickwick and his followers rose as one man . 
'What is the meaning of this atrocious intrusion upon my privacy ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Who dares apprehend me ? said Mr. Tupman . 
'What do you want here , scoundrels ? said Mr. Snodgrass . 
As it was , however , it had no visible effect on him whatever . 
This demonstration was not lost upon Mr. Pickwick . 
The shopkeepers of the town , although they had a very indistinct notion of the nature of the offence , could not but be much edified and gratified by this spectacle . 
to cheer too , with all his might and main . 
, when he was suddenly stopped by the unexpected appearance of Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass . 
'What's the row , gen'l'm'n ? 'cried Sam . 
'Who have they got in this here watch box in mournin' ? Both gentlemen replied together , but their words were lost in the tumult . 
'Who is it ? cried Sam again . 
In another minute Mr. Weller had made his way through the crowd , stopped the chairmen , and confronted the portly Grummer . 
'Hollo , old gen'l'm'n ! said Sam . 
'Knock him down , if he don't , said Mr. Dubbley . 
How are you , Sir ? This last observation was addressed with a patronising air to Mr. Pickwick , who was peeping through the front window . 
Mr. Grummer , perfectly speechless with indignation , dragged the truncheon with the brass crown from its particular pocket , and flourished it before Sam's eyes . 
'Ah , said Sam , 'it's wery pretty , 'specially the crown , which is uncommon like the real one . 
'Stand back ! said the outraged Mr. Grummer . 
The procession then reformed the chairmen resumed their stations and the march was re commenced . 
Mr. Pickwick's indignation during the whole of this proceeding was beyond all bounds . 
In this order they reached the magistrate's house the chairmen trotting , the prisoners following , Mr. Pickwick oratorising , and the crowd shouting . 
The scene was an impressive one , well calculated to strike terror to the hearts of culprits , and to impress them with an adequate idea of the stern majesty of the law . 
The party having all entered , Muzzle carefully closed the door , and placed himself behind his master's chair to await his orders . 
Mr. Nupkins threw himself back with thrilling solemnity , and scrutinised the faces of his unwilling visitors . 
'This here's Pickvick , your Wash up , said Grummer . 
'Come , none o' that 'ere , old Strike a light , interposed Mr. Weller , elbowing himself into the front rank . 
'Beg your pardon , sir , but this here officer o' yourn in the gambooge tops , 'ull never earn a decent livin' as a master o' the ceremonies any vere . 
Business first , pleasure arterwards , as King Richard the Third said when he stabbed the t'other king in the Tower , afore he smothered the babbies . 
At the conclusion of this address , Mr. Weller brushed his hat with his right elbow , and nodded benignly to Jinks , who had heard him throughout with unspeakable awe . 
'Who is this man , Grummer ? said the magistrate , . 
'Wery desp'rate ch'racter , your Wash up , replied Grummer . 
'He attempted to rescue the prisoners , and assaulted the officers so we took him into custody , and brought him here . 
'You did quite right , replied the magistrate . 
'He is evidently a desperate ruffian . 
'He is my servant , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick angrily . 
'Oh ! he is your servant , is he ? said Mr. Nupkins . 
'A conspiracy to defeat the ends of justice , and murder its officers . 
Put that down , Mr. Jinks . 
'What's your name , fellow ? thundered Mr. Nupkins . 
'A very good name for the Newgate Calendar , said Mr. Nupkins . 
This was a joke so Jinks , Grummer , Dubbley , all the specials , and Muzzle , went into fits of laughter of five minutes' duration . 
'Put down his name , Mr. Jinks , said the magistrate . 
'Two L's , old feller , said Sam . 
Here an unfortunate special laughed again , whereupon the magistrate threatened to commit him instantly . 
It is a dangerous thing to laugh at the wrong man , in these cases . 
'Where do you live ? said the magistrate . 
'Vere ever I can , replied Sam . 
'Put down that , Mr. Jinks , said the magistrate , who was fast rising into a rage . 
'Score it under , said Sam . 
'He is a vagabond , Mr. Jinks , said the magistrate . 
'He is a vagabond on his own statement , is he not , Mr. Jinks ? 'Certainly , Sir . 
'Then I'll commit him I'll commit him as such , said Mr. Nupkins . 
'This is a wery impartial country for justice , 'said Sam . 
'There ain't a magistrate goin' as don't commit himself twice as he commits other people . 
At this sally another special laughed , and then tried to look so supernaturally solemn , that the magistrate detected him immediately . 
'Very sorry ! said the furious magistrate . 
'You shall repent of this neglect of duty , Mr. Grummer you shall be made an example of . 
Take that fellow's staff away . 
'I am not drunk , your Worship , said the man . 
'You ARE drunk , returned the magistrate . 
'I knew he did , said Mr. Nupkins . 
'I saw he was drunk when he first came into the room , by his excited eye . 
Did you observe his excited eye , Mr. Jinks ? 'Certainly , Sir . 
'I haven't touched a drop of spirits this morning , said the man , who was as sober a fellow as need be . 
'How dare you tell me a falsehood ? said Mr. Nupkins . 
'Isn't he drunk at this moment , Mr. Jinks ? 'Certainly , Sir , replied Jinks . 
Jinks , said the magistrate , 'I shall commit that man for contempt . 
Make out his committal , Mr. Jinks . 
'Now , Mr. Jinks , said the magistrate , 'swear Grummer . 
When all this was done to the magistrate's satisfaction , the magistrate and Mr. Jinks consulted in whispers . 
'Hold your tongue , Sir , said the magistrate peremptorily . 
'I must submit to you , Sir said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Hold your tongue , sir , interposed the magistrate , 'or I shall order an officer to remove you . 
'Pickvick and principle ! exclaimed Mr. Weller , in a very audible voice . 
'Sam , be quiet , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Dumb as a drum vith a hole in it , Sir , replied Sam . 
To this , the magistrate returned a half audible answer , and then the whispering was renewed . 
'I think you had better , sir , whispered Jinks to the magistrate . 
Therefore eh , Mr. Jinks ? 'Certainly , sir . 
'Therefore , I call upon you both , to I think that's the course , Mr. Jinks ? 'Certainly , Sir . 
'To to what , Mr. Jinks ? said the magistrate pettishly . 
'To find bail , sir . 
Therefore , I call upon you both as I was about to say when I was interrupted by my clerk to find bail . 
'Good bail , whispered Mr. Jinks . 
'I shall require good bail , said the magistrate . 
'Town's people , whispered Jinks . 
'They must be townspeople , said the magistrate . 
'Fifty pounds each , whispered Jinks , 'and householders , of course . 
'I shall require two sureties of fifty pounds each , said the magistrate aloud , with great dignity , 'and they must be householders , of course . 
'But bless my heart , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , who , together with Mr. Tupman , was all amazement and indignation 'we are perfect strangers in this town . 
I have as little knowledge of any householders here , as I have intention of fighting a duel with anybody . 
'I dare say , replied the magistrate , 'I dare say don't you , Mr. Jinks ? 'Certainly , Sir . 
'Have you anything more to say ? inquired the magistrate . 
He should fine Weller two pounds for the first assault , and three pounds for the second . 
Pickwick and Tupman he had already held to bail . 
Mr. Pickwick repeated his request . 
'This is a most extraordinary request , said the magistrate . 
The magistrate looked at Mr. Jinks Mr. Jinks looked at the magistrate the officers looked at each other in amazement . 
Mr. Nupkins turned suddenly pale . 
Could the man Weller , in a moment of remorse , have divulged some secret conspiracy for his assassination ? It was a dreadful thought . 
He was a public man and he turned paler , as he thought of Julius Caesar and Mr. Perceval . 
The magistrate looked at Mr. Pickwick again , and beckoned Mr. Jinks . 
'What do you think of this request , Mr. Jinks ? murmured Mr. Nupkins . 
Jinks , said the magistrate gravely , 'you are an ass . 
At this little expression of opinion , Mr. Jinks smiled again rather more feebly than before and edged himself , by degrees , back into his own corner . 
'I will come to the point at once , sir , said Mr. Pickwick 'it affects yourself and your credit materially . 
I have every reason to believe , Sir , that you are harbouring in your house a gross impostor ! 'Two , interrupted Sam . 
'Wery sorry , Sir , replied Mr. Weller 'but when I think o' that 'ere Job , I can't help opening the walve a inch or two . 
'Dear me , said Mr. Nupkins , turning very red , and altering his whole manner directly . 
'Dear me , Mr. 'Pickvick , said Sam . 
He's a strolling actor , he is , and his name's Jingle and if ever there was a wolf in a mulberry suit , that 'ere Job Trotter's him . 
Mr. Pickwick proceeded to pour into the horror stricken ear of Mr. Nupkins , an abridged account of all Mr. Jingle's atrocities . 
now felt it his duty to expose his assumption of his present name and rank . 
As the narrative proceeded , all the warm blood in the body of Mr. Nupkins tingled up into the very tips of his ears . 
He had picked up the captain at a neighbouring race course . 
Captain Fitz Marshall is a man of very engaging manners , and , I dare say , has many enemies . 
What proof have you of the truth of these representations ? 'Confront me with him , said Mr. Pickwick , 'that is all I ask , and all I require . 
Confront him with me and my friends here you will want no further proof . 
I I should like to consult Mrs. Nupkins on the propriety of the step , in the first instance , though . 
At all events , Mr. Pickwick , we must despatch this legal business before we can do anything else . 
Pray step back into the next room . 
Into the next room they went . 
'Grummer , said the magistrate , in an awful voice . 
'Your Wash up , replied Grummer , with the smile of a favourite . 
'Come , come , Sir , said the magistrate sternly , 'don't let me see any of this levity here . 
It is very unbecoming , and I can assure you that you have very little to smile at . 
Jinks , you observe this confusion ? 'Certainly , Sir , replied Jinks . 
'Now , said the magistrate , 'repeat your statement , Grummer , and again I warn you to be careful . 
Mr. Jinks , take his words down . 
So the fines were remitted , and Mr. Jinks found a couple of bail in no time . 
Mrs. Nupkins was a majestic female in a pink gauze turban and a light brown wig . 
'But , my dear , said Mr. Nupkins . 
'Don't talk to me , you aggravating thing , don't ! said Mrs. Nupkins . 
'My love , said Mr. Nupkins , 'you professed yourself very fond of Captain Fitz Marshall . 
You have constantly asked him here , my dear , and you have lost no opportunity of introducing him elsewhere . 
'Didn't I say so , Henrietta ? cried Mrs. Nupkins , appealing to her daughter with the air of a much injured female . 
'Didn't I say that your papa would turn round and lay all this at my door ? Didn't I say so ? Here Mrs. Nupkins sobbed . 
'Oh , pa ! remonstrated Miss Nupkins . 
And here she sobbed too . 
'Isn't it too much , when he has brought all this disgrace and ridicule upon us , to taunt me with being the cause of it ? exclaimed Mrs. Nupkins . 
'How can we ever show ourselves in society ! said Miss Nupkins . 
'How can we face the Porkenhams ? cried Mrs. Nupkins . 
'Or the Griggs ! cried Miss Nupkins . 
'Or the Slummintowkens ! cried Mrs. Nupkins . 
'But what does your papa care ! What is it to HIM ! At this dreadful reflection , Mrs. Nupkins wept mental anguish , and Miss Nupkins followed on the same side . 
When Mrs. Nupkins dried up her tears , Miss Nupkins dried up hers , and Mr. Nupkins was very glad to settle the matter as Mrs. Nupkins had proposed . 
'How de do , sir ? said Mr. Muzzle , as he conducted Mr. Weller down the kitchen stairs . 
'You will excuse my not taking more notice of you then , said Mr. Muzzle . 
'You see , master hadn't introduced us , then . 
'So much humour , said Sam . 
'And such a man to speak , said Mr. Muzzle . 
'Take care of the last step , Mr. Weller . 
'Ah ! perhaps I may as well have a rinse , replied Mr. Weller , applying plenty of yellow soap to the towel , and rubbing away till his face shone again . 
'How many ladies are there ? 'Only two in our kitchen , said Mr. Muzzle 'cook and 'ouse maid . 
We keep a boy to do the dirty work , and a gal besides , but they dine in the wash'us . 
'Oh , they dines in the wash'us , do they ? said Mr. Weller . 
'Yes , replied Mr. Muzzle , 'we tried 'em at our table when they first come , but we couldn't keep 'em . 
The gal's manners is dreadful vulgar and the boy breathes so very hard while he's eating , that we found it impossible to sit at table with him . 
'Young grampus ! said Mr. Weller . 
'Oh , dreadful , rejoined Mr. Muzzle 'but that is the worst of country service , Mr. Weller the juniors is always so very savage . 
This way , sir , if you please , this way . 
Preceding Mr. Weller , with the utmost politeness , Mr. Muzzle conducted him into the kitchen . 
'Mary , said Mr. Muzzle to the pretty servant girl , 'this is Mr. Weller a gentleman as master has sent down , to be made as comfortable as possible . 
'And your master's a knowin' hand , and has just sent me to the right place , said Mr. Weller , with a glance of admiration at Mary . 
'If I wos master o' this here house , I should alvays find the materials for comfort vere Mary wos . 
'Lor , Mr. Weller ! said Mary blushing . 
'Well , I never ! ejaculated the cook . 
'Bless me , cook , I forgot you , said Mr. Muzzle . 
Weller , let me introduce you . 
'How are you , ma'am ? said Mr. Weller . 
'Wery glad to see you , indeed , and hope our acquaintance may be a long 'un , as the gen'l'm'n said to the fi' pun' note . 
'I never could a bear that Job , said Mary . 
'No more you never ought to , my dear , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Why not ? inquired Mary . 
''Cos ugliness and svindlin' never ought to be formiliar with elegance and wirtew , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Ought they , Mr. Muzzle ? 'Not by no means , replied that gentleman . 
Here Mary laughed , and said the cook had made her and the cook laughed , and said she hadn't . 
'I ha'n't got a glass , said Mary . 
'Drink with me , my dear , said Mr. Weller . 
'Put your lips to this here tumbler , and then I can kiss you by deputy . 
'For shame , Mr. Weller ! said Mary . 
'What's a shame , my dear ? 'Talkin' in that way . 
'Nonsense it ain't no harm . 
We have said in walked Mr. Job Trotter , but the statement is not distinguished by our usual scrupulous adherence to fact . 
The door opened and Mr. Trotter appeared . 
'Here he is ! said Sam , rising with great glee . 
'Why we were that wery moment a speaking o' you . 
How are you ? Where have you been ? Come in . 
'Well , here's a game ! cried Sam . 
'Only think o' my master havin' the pleasure o' meeting yourn upstairs , and me havin' the joy o' meetin' you down here . 
How are you gettin' on , and how is the chandlery bis'ness likely to do ? Well , I am so glad to see you . 
It's quite a treat to see you ain't it , Mr. Muzzle ? 'Quite , said Mr. Muzzle . 
'So cheerful he is ! said Sam . 
'In such good spirits ! said Muzzle . 
'And so glad to see us that makes it so much more comfortable , said Sam . 
Mr. Trotter suffered himself to be forced into a chair by the fireside . 
He cast his small eyes , first on Mr. Weller , and then on Mr. Muzzle , but said nothing . 
'The willin ! 'And leave off his evil ways , and set up in the chandlery line arterwards , said the housemaid . 
Do you understand that , Sir ? Here Mr. Muzzle , who had a great notion of his eloquence , in which he imitated his master , paused for a reply . 
But Mr. Trotter made no reply . 
Do you understand that , Sir ? Mr. Muzzle again paused for a reply and again Mr. Trotter disappointed him . 
'Well , then , said Mr. Muzzle , 'I'm very sorry to have to explain myself before ladies , but the urgency of the case will be my excuse . 
The back kitchen's empty , Sir . 
If you will step in there , Sir , Mr. Weller will see fair , and we can have mutual satisfaction till the bell rings . 
At this moment , the bell rang . 
It was an impressive tableau . 
What prevents me ? 'Pride , old fellow , pride , replied Jingle , quite at his ease . 
'I always hated him , added Henrietta . 
'Oh , of course , said Jingle . 
Nupkins , said the elder lady , 'this is not a fit conversation for the servants to overhear . 
Let these wretches be removed . 
'Certainly , my dear , Said Mr , Nupkins . 
'Leave the house ! said Mr. Nupkins , waving his hand emphatically . 
Jingle smiled , and moved towards the door . 
'Stay ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I might , said Mr. Pickwick , 'have taken a much greater revenge for the treatment I have experienced at your hands , and that of your hypocritical friend there . 
Job Trotter bowed with great politeness , and laid his hand upon his heart . 
This is a leniency , Sir , which I hope you will remember . 
When Mr. Pickwick arrived at this point , Job Trotter , with facetious gravity , applied his hand to his ear , as if desirous not to lose a syllable he uttered . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , as Mr. Weller was following . 
'Stay here , repeated Mr. Pickwick . 
'Mayn't I polish that 'ere Job off , in the front garden ? said Mr. Weller . 
'Certainly not , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Mayn't I kick him out o' the gate , Sir ? said Mr. Weller . 
'Not on any account , replied his master . 
For the first time since his engagement , Mr. Weller looked , for a moment , discontented and unhappy . 
'Having discharged my duty , Sir , said Mr. Pickwick to Mr. Nupkins , 'I will , with my friends , bid you farewell . 
We return to London to morrow . 
Your secret is safe with us . 
'Get your hat , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'It's below stairs , Sir , said Sam , and he ran down after it . 
Now , there was nobody in the kitchen , but the pretty housemaid and as Sam's hat was mislaid , he had to look for it , and the pretty housemaid lighted him . 
They had to look all over the place for the hat . 
It was an awkward corner . 
You couldn't get at it without shutting the door first . 
'Here it is , said the pretty housemaid . 
'This is it , ain't it ? 'Let me look , said Sam . 
it was a remarkably small corner , and so it was nobody's fault but the man's who built the house Sam and the pretty housemaid were necessarily very close together . 
'Yes , this is it , said Sam . 
'Good bye ! 'Good bye ! said the pretty housemaid . 
'Good bye ! said Sam and as he said it , he dropped the hat that had cost so much trouble in looking for . 
'How awkward you are , said the pretty housemaid . 
'You'll lose it again , if you don't take care . 
So just to prevent his losing it again , she put it on for him . 
'You don't mean to say you did that on purpose , said the pretty housemaid , blushing . 
'No , I didn't then , said Sam 'but I will now . 
So he kissed her again . 
'Sam ! said Mr. Pickwick , calling over the banisters . 
'Coming , Sir , replied Sam , running upstairs . 
'How long you have been ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'There was something behind the door , Sir , which perwented our getting it open , for ever so long , Sir , replied Sam . 
And this was the first passage of Mr. Weller's first love . 
Here the friends , for a short time , separated . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Sir , said Mr. Weller . 
'Wery good , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
I wish you would step up to Goswell Street , Sam , and arrange about it . 
'At once , Sir ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'At once , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'And stay , Sam , added Mr. Pickwick , pulling out his purse , 'there is some rent to pay . 
The quarter is not due till Christmas , but you may pay it , and have done with it . 
A month's notice terminates my tenancy . 
Here it is , written out . 
Give it , and tell Mrs. Bardell she may put a bill up , as soon as she likes . 
'Wery good , sir , replied Mr. Weller 'anythin' more , sir ? 'Nothing more , Sam . 
'Yes , sir , said Mr. Weller , stepping quickly back , and closing the door behind him . 
I say I do not object to you doing this , if you wish it , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Sam gave a short nod of intelligence , and left the room . 
Mr. Pickwick drew the silk handkerchief once more over his head , And composed himself for a nap . 
Mr. Weller promptly walked forth , to execute his commission . 
It was nearly nine o'clock when he reached Goswell Street . 
A couple of candles were burning in the little front parlour , and a couple of caps were reflected on the window blind . 
Mrs. Bardell had got company . 
Pickwick's servant ! said Mrs. Bardell , turning pale . 
'Bless my soul ! said Mrs. Cluppins . 
'Well , I raly would not ha' believed it , unless I had ha' happened to ha' been here ! said Mrs. Sanders . 
Mrs. Cluppins was a little , brisk , busy looking woman Mrs. Sanders was a big , fat , heavy faced personage and the two were the company . 
In this state of indecision , obviously the first thing to be done , was to thump the boy for finding Mr. Weller at the door . 
So his mother thumped him , and he cried melodiously . 
'Hold your noise do you naughty creetur ! said Mrs. Bardell . 
'Yes don't worrit your poor mother , said Mrs. Sanders . 
'She's quite enough to worrit her , as it is , without you , Tommy , said Mrs. Cluppins , with sympathising resignation . 
'Ah ! worse luck , poor lamb ! said Mrs. Sanders . 
At all which moral reflections , Master Bardell howled the louder . 
'Now , what shall I do ? said Mrs. Bardell to Mrs. Cluppins . 
'I think you ought to see him , replied Mrs. Cluppins . 
'But on no account without a witness . 
'I think two witnesses would be more lawful , said Mrs. Sanders , who , like the other friend , was bursting with curiosity . 
'Perhaps he'd better come in here , said Mrs. Bardell . 
'To be sure , replied Mrs. Cluppins , eagerly catching at the idea 'walk in , young man and shut the street door first , please . 
'Of course , the young man can't help the faults of his master , said Mrs. Cluppins , much struck by Mr. Weller's appearance and conversation . 
'So all I've come about , is jest this here , said Sam , disregarding the interruption 'first , to give my governor's notice there it is . 
Secondly , to pay the rent here it is . 
Thirdly , to say as all his things is to be put together , and give to anybody as we sends for 'em . 
Fourthly , that you may let the place as soon as you like and that's all . 
His money always as good as the bank always . 
As Mrs. Bardell said this , she applied her handkerchief to her eyes , and went out of the room to get the receipt . 
'Poor dear ! said Mrs. Cluppins . 
'Ah , poor thing ! replied Mrs. Sanders . 
He saw they were coming to the subject . 
'I raly cannot contain myself , said Mrs. Cluppins , 'when I think of such perjury . 
I don't wish to say anything to make you uncomfortable , young man , but your master's an old brute , and I wish I had him here to tell him so . 
'I wish you had , said Sam . 
'Question , indeed , retorted Mrs. Cluppins , 'she'd question him , if she'd my spirit . 
At this consolatory reflection , Mrs. Cluppins bridled up , and smiled at Mrs. Sanders , who smiled back again . 
'The action's going on , and no mistake , thought Sam , as Mrs. Bardell re entered with the receipt . 
'Lauk , Mrs. Bardell , said Mrs. Cluppins , 'see what you've been and done ! 'Well , that is a good one ! ejaculated Mrs. Sanders . 
'Ah , my poor head ! said Mrs. Bardell , with a faint smile . 
Sam understood all this , of course , so he said at once , that he never could drink before supper , unless a lady drank with him . 
A great deal of laughter ensued , and Mrs. Sanders volunteered to humour him , so she took a slight sip out of her glass . 
Then Sam said it must go all round , so they all took a slight sip . 
Then little Mrs. Cluppins proposed as a toast , 'Success to Bardell agin Pickwick' and then the ladies emptied their glasses in honour of the sentiment , and got very talkative directly . 
'I suppose you've heard what's going forward , Mr. Weller ? said Mrs. Bardell . 
'I've heerd somethin' on it , replied Sam . 
I don't know what I should do , Mr. Weller , if I didn't . 
'Ven is it expected to come on ? inquired Sam . 
'Either in February or March , replied Mrs. Bardell . 
'What a number of witnesses there'll be , won't there , ? said Mrs. Cluppins . 
'Ah ! won't there ! replied Mrs. Sanders . 
'But the plaintiff must get it , resumed Mrs. Cluppins . 
'I hope so , said Mrs. Bardell . 
'Oh , there can't be any doubt about it , rejoined Mrs. Sanders . 
'Vell , said Sam , rising and setting down his glass , 'all I can say is , that I vish you MAY get it . 
'Thank'ee , Mr. Weller , said Mrs. Bardell fervently . 
'Ah , I wish they had the reward that every kind and generous heart would be inclined to bestow upon them ! said the gratified Mrs. Bardell . 
'Amen to that , replied Sam , 'and a fat and happy liven' they'd get out of it ! Wish you good night , ladies . 
Anxious to atone for his past neglect without another hour's delay , he straightway walked upstairs to Mr. Pickwick , and requested leave of absence for this laudable purpose . 
'Certainly , Sam , certainly , said Mr. Pickwick , his eyes glistening with delight at this manifestation of filial feeling on the part of his attendant 'certainly , Sam . 
Mr. Weller made a grateful bow . 
'I am very glad to see that you have so high a sense of your duties as a son , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I always had , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'That's a very gratifying reflection , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick approvingly . 
'Wery , Sir , replied Mr. Weller 'if ever I wanted anythin' o' my father , I always asked for it in a wery 'spectful and obligin' manner . 
If he didn't give it me , I took it , for fear I should be led to do anythin' wrong , through not havin' it . 
I saved him a world o' trouble this vay , Sir . 
'That's not precisely what I meant , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , shaking his head , with a slight smile . 
'All good feelin' , sir the wery best intentions , as the gen'l'm'n said ven he run away from his wife 'cos she seemed unhappy with him , replied Mr. Weller . 
'You may go , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
The bar window displayed a choice collection of geranium plants , and a well dusted row of spirit phials . 
It came from a rather stout lady of comfortable appearance , who was seated beside the fireplace in the bar , blowing the fire to make the kettle boil for tea . 
He was a prim faced , red nosed man , with a long , thin countenance , and a semi rattlesnake sort of eye rather sharp , but decidedly bad . 
He wore very short trousers , and black cotton stockings , which , like the rest of his apparel , were particularly rusty . 
His looks were starched , but his white neckerchief was not , and its long limp ends straggled over his closely buttoned waistcoat in a very uncouth and unpicturesque fashion . 
The fire was blazing brightly under the influence of the bellows , and the kettle was singing gaily under the influence of both . 
Sam was so lost in the contemplation of this comfortable scene , that he suffered the first inquiry of the rather stout lady to pass unheeded . 
It was not until it had been twice repeated , each time in a shriller tone , that he became conscious of the impropriety of his behaviour . 
'Governor in ? inquired Sam , in reply to the question . 
'I suppose he's drivin' up to day ? said Sam . 
'He may be , or he may not , replied Mrs. Weller , buttering the round of toast which the red nosed man had just finished . 
'I don't know , and , what's more , I don't care . 
Ask a blessin' , Mr. Stiggins . 
The red nosed man did as he was desired , and instantly commenced on the toast with fierce voracity . 
The appearance of the red nosed man had induced Sam , at first sight , to more than half suspect that he was the deputy shepherd of whom his estimable parent had spoken . 
He therefore commenced proceedings by putting his arm over the half door of the bar , coolly unbolting it , and leisurely walking in . 
This was a double barrelled compliment . 
It implied that Mrs. Weller was a most agreeable female , and also that Mr. Stiggins had a clerical appearance . 
It made a visible impression at once and Sam followed up his advantage by kissing his mother in law . 
'Get along with you ! said Mrs. Weller , pushing him away . 
'For shame , young man ! said the gentleman with the red nose . 
'Ah , so it is , said Mrs. Weller , setting her cap to rights . 
Sam thought it was , too , but he held his peace . 
However , there he was and as he couldn't be decently turned out , they all three sat down to tea . 
'And how's father ? said Sam . 
At this inquiry , Mrs. Weller raised her hands , and turned up her eyes , as if the subject were too painful to be alluded to . 
'What's the matter with that 'ere gen'l'm'n ? inquired Sam . 
'He's shocked at the way your father goes on in , replied Mrs. Weller . 
'Oh , he is , is he ? said Sam . 
'And with too good reason , added Mrs. Weller gravely . 
Mr. Stiggins took up a fresh piece of toast , and groaned heavily . 
'He is a dreadful reprobate , said Mrs. Weller . 
'A man of wrath ! exclaimed Mr. Stiggins . 
He took a large semi circular bite out of the toast , and groaned again . 
'Well , that is odd , said Sam 'it 'ud have a wery considerable effect upon me , if I wos in his place I know that . 
'The fact is , my young friend , said Mr. Stiggins solemnly , 'he has an obderrate bosom . 
'Those which combine amusement With instruction , my young friend , replied Mr. Stiggins , 'blending select tales with wood cuts . 
'And he wouldn't be persuaded by the ladies , wouldn't he ? said Sam . 
'Sat and smoked his pipe , and said the infant negroes were what did he say the infant negroes were ? said Mrs. Weller . 
'Little humbugs , replied Mr. Stiggins , deeply affected . 
'Said the infant negroes were little humbugs , repeated Mrs. Weller . 
And they both groaned at the atrocious conduct of the elder Mr. Weller . 
'What , Sammy ! exclaimed the father . 
'What , old Nobs ! ejaculated the son . 
And they shook hands heartily . 
'Wery glad to see you , Sammy , said the elder Mr. Weller , 'though how you've managed to get over your mother in law , is a mystery to me . 
I only vish you'd write me out the receipt , that's all . 
'Hush ! said Sam , 'she's at home , old feller . 
'She ain't vithin hearin' , replied Mr. Weller 'she always goes and blows up , downstairs , for a couple of hours arter tea so we'll just give ourselves a damp , Sammy . 
Saying this , Mr. Weller mixed two glasses of spirits and water , and produced a couple of pipes . 
'Anybody been here , Sammy ? asked Mr. Weller , senior , dryly , after a long silence . 
Sam nodded an expressive assent . 
'Red nosed chap ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'Amiable man that 'ere , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , smoking violently . 
'Seems so , observed Sam . 
'Good hand at accounts , said Mr. Weller . 
'Is he ? said Sam . 
Sam intimated by a nod that he recollected the problem alluded to by his parent . 
'So you vouldn't subscribe to the flannel veskits ? said Sam , after another interval of smoking . 
As Mr. Weller said this , he slowly recovered his former position , and winked at his first born , in a profound manner . 
'it cert'nly seems a queer start to send out pocket 'ankerchers to people as don't know the use on 'em , observed Sam . 
'They're alvays a doin' some gammon of that sort , Sammy , replied his father . 
What d'ye think it was all for ? 'For another tea drinkin' , perhaps , said Sam . 
'Not a bit on it , replied the father 'for the shepherd's water rate , Sammy . 
'The shepherd's water rate ! said Sam . 
Hows'ever , it warn't paid , and so they cuts the water off . 
Lord bless their little hearts , they thinks it's all right , and don't know no better but they're the wictims o' gammon , Samivel , they're the wictims o' gammon . 
'I s'pose they are , said Sam . 
That 'ud shake the nonsense out of 'em , if anythin' vould . 
He was engaged in this operation , when a shrill voice was heard in the passage . 
'Here's your dear relation , Sammy , said Mr. Weller and Mrs. W. hurried into the room . 
'Oh , you've come back , have you ! said Mrs. Weller . 
'Yes , my dear , replied Mr. Weller , filling a fresh pipe . 
'Has Mr. Stiggins been back ? said Mrs. Weller . 
'Ugh , you wretch ! said Mrs. Weller . 
'Thank'ee , my love , said Mr. Weller . 
'Come , come , father , said Sam , 'none o' these little lovin's afore strangers . 
Here's the reverend gen'l'm'n a comin' in now . 
At this announcement , Mrs. Weller hastily wiped off the tears which she had just begun to force on and Mr. W. drew his chair sullenly into the chimney corner . 
Sam was up betimes next day , and having partaken of a hasty breakfast , prepared to return to London . 
He had scarcely set foot without the house , when his father stood before him . 
'Goin' , Sammy ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'Off at once , replied Sam . 
'I vish you could muffle that 'ere Stiggins , and take him vith you , said Mr. Weller . 
I rayther think it isn't . 
'Well , said Sam , 'good bye . 
'Tar , tar , Sammy , replied his father . 
'What ? 'Pison his rum and water , said Sam . 
'No ! said Mr. Weller , shaking his son eagerly by the hand , 'would you raly , Sammy would you , though ? 'I would , said Sam . 
'I wouldn't be too hard upon him at first . 
I'd drop him in the water butt , and put the lid on and if I found he was insensible to kindness , I'd try the other persvasion . 
Sam looked after him , until he turned a corner of the road and then set forward on his walk to London . 
He meditated at first , on the probable consequences of his own advice , and the likelihood of his father's adopting it . 
He dismissed the subject from his mind , however , with the consolatory reflection that time alone would show and this is the reflection we would impress upon the reader . 
Gay and merry was the time and right gay and merry were at least four of the numerous hearts that were gladdened by its coming . 
And numerous indeed are the hearts to which Christmas brings a brief season of happiness and enjoyment . 
Snodgrass , Winkle , and Tupman , all smile in company . 
They have rumbled through the streets , and jolted over the stones , and at length reach the wide and open country . 
They have descended a gentle slope , and enter upon a level , as compact and dry as a solid block of marble , two miles long . 
, he replaces his handkerchief , pulls on his hat , adjusts his gloves , squares his elbows , cracks the whip again , and on they speed , more merrily than before . 
A few small houses , scattered on either side of the road , betoken the entrance to some town or village . 
Mr. Pickwick was busily engaged in counting the barrels of oysters and superintending the disinterment of the cod fish , when he felt himself gently pulled by the skirts of the coat . 
'Aha ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Aha ! said the fat boy . 
As he said it , he glanced from the cod fish to the oyster barrels , and chuckled joyously . 
He was fatter than ever . 
'Well , you look rosy enough , my young friend , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Master sent me over with the shay cart , to carry your luggage up to the house . 
He'd ha' sent some saddle horses , but he thought you'd rather walk , being a cold day . 
'Yes , yes , said Mr. Pickwick hastily , for he remembered how they had travelled over nearly the same ground on a previous occasion . 
'Yes , we would rather walk . 
Here , Sam ! 'Sir , said Mr. Weller . 
'Help Mr. Wardle's servant to put the packages into the cart , and then ride on with him . 
We will walk forward at once . 
'There , said Sam , throwing in the last carpet bag , 'there they are ! 'Yes , said the fat boy , in a very satisfied tone , 'there they are . 
'Vell , young twenty stun , said Sam , 'you're a nice specimen of a prize boy , you are ! 'Thank'ee , said the fat boy . 
'You ain't got nothin' on your mind as makes you fret yourself , have you ? inquired Sam . 
'Not as I knows on , replied the fat boy . 
'I should rayther ha' thought , to look at you , that you was a labourin' under an unrequited attachment to some young 'ooman , said Sam . 
The fat boy shook his head . 
'Vell , said Sam , 'I am glad to hear it . 
Do you ever drink anythin' ? 'I likes eating better , replied the boy . 
Mr. Weller having transacted a similar piece of business on his own account , they got into the cart . 
'Can you drive ? said the fat boy . 
'I should rayther think so , replied Sam . 
'There , then , said the fat boy , putting the reins in his hand , and pointing up a lane , 'it's as straight as you can go you can't miss it . 
'Well , said Sam , 'of all the cool boys ever I set my eyes on , this here young gen'l'm'n is the coolest . 
Meanwhile , Mr. Pickwick and his friends having walked their blood into active circulation , proceeded cheerfully on . 
made them look forward with pleasant anticipation to the comforts which awaited them at their hospitable entertainer's . 
However , Mr. Tupman did not volunteer any such accommodation , and the friends walked on , conversing merrily . 
The ceremony of introduction , under such circumstances , was very soon performed , or we should rather say that the introduction was soon over , without any ceremony at all . 
All this was very snug and pleasant . 
The old lady was seated with customary state in the front parlour , but she was rather cross , and , by consequence , most particularly deaf . 
So , bless her old soul , she sat as upright as she could , in her great chair , and looked as fierce as might be and that was benevolent after all . 
'Mother , said Wardle , 'Mr . 
You recollect him ? 'Never mind , replied the old lady , with great dignity . 
'Don't trouble Mr. Pickwick about an old creetur like me . 
Nobody cares about me now , and it's very nat'ral they shouldn't . 
Here the old lady tossed her head , and smoothed down her lavender coloured silk dress with trembling hands . 
'Come , come , ma'am , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I can't let you cut an old friend in this way . 
'Come , come , don't be cross , there's a good soul . 
Recollect Bella come , you must keep her spirits up , poor girl . 
The good old lady heard this , for her lip quivered as her son said it . 
But age has its little infirmities of temper , and she was not quite brought round yet . 
A happy party they were , that night . 
Sedate and solemn were the score of rubbers in which Mr. Pickwick and the old lady played together uproarious was the mirth of the round table . 
Mr. Pickwick was awakened early in the morning , by a hum of voices and a pattering of feet , sufficient to rouse even the fat boy from his heavy slumbers . 
He sat up in bed and listened . 
The occasion being an important one , he dressed himself with peculiar care , and descended to the breakfast room . 
Mr. Trundle was in high feather and spirits , but a little nervous withal . 
The hearty old landlord was trying to look very cheerful and unconcerned , but failing signally in the attempt . 
All the girls were in tears and white muslin , except a select two or three , who were being honoured with a private view of the bride and bridesmaids , upstairs . 
Then , the old church bell rang as gaily as it could , and they all returned to breakfast . 
The fat boy pointed to the destination of the pies . 
'Wery good , said Sam , 'stick a bit o' Christmas in 'em . 
There now we look compact and comfortable , as the father said ven he cut his little boy's head off , to cure him o' squintin' . 
As Mr. Weller made the comparison , he fell back a step or two , to give full effect to it , and surveyed the preparations with the utmost satisfaction . 
'Joe damn that boy , he's gone to sleep . 
'God bless you , old fellow ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Same to you , my boy , replied Wardle and they pledged each other , heartily . 
Wardle , said Mr. Pickwick , 'we old folks must have a glass of wine together , in honour of this joyful event . 
Miller , said Mr. Pickwick to his old acquaintance , the hard headed gentleman , 'a glass of wine ? 'With great satisfaction , Mr. Pickwick , replied the hard headed gentleman solemnly . 
'You'll take me in ? said the benevolent old clergyman . 
'And me , interposed his wife . 
'And me , and me , said a couple of poor relations at the bottom of the table , who had eaten and drunk very heartily , and laughed at everything . 
Mr. Pickwick expressed his heartfelt delight at every additional suggestion and his eyes beamed with hilarity and cheerfulness . 
'Ladies and gentlemen , said Mr. Pickwick , suddenly rising . 
'Hear , hear ! Hear , hear ! Hear , hear ! cried Mr. Weller , in the excitement of his feelings . 
'Call in all the servants , cried old Wardle , interposing to prevent the public rebuke which Mr. Weller would otherwise most indubitably have received from his master . 
'Give them a glass of wine each to drink the toast in . 
'My dear friends , resumed Mr. Pickwick , 'I am going to propose the health of the bride and bridegroom God bless 'em . 
The bride's father , our good friend there , is a noble person , and I am proud to know him . 
Mr. Wardle proposed Mr. Pickwick Mr. Pickwick proposed the old lady . 
Mr. Snodgrass proposed Mr. Wardle Mr. Wardle proposed Mr. Snodgrass . 
At dinner they met again , after a five and twenty mile walk , undertaken by the males at Wardle's recommendation , to get rid of the effects of the wine at breakfast . 
The poor relations had kept in bed all day , with the view of attaining the same happy consummation , but , as they had been unsuccessful , they stopped there . 
Mr. Weller kept the domestics in a state of perpetual hilarity and the fat boy divided his time into small alternate allotments of eating and sleeping . 
The dinner was as hearty an affair as the breakfast , and was quite as noisy , without the tears . 
Then came the dessert and some more toasts . 
Then came the tea and coffee and then , the ball . 
At the upper end of the room , seated in a shady bower of holly and evergreens were the two best fiddlers , and the only harp , in all Muggleton . 
In all sorts of recesses , and on all kinds of brackets , stood massive old silver candlesticks with four branches each . 
The carpet was up , the candles burned bright , the fire blazed and crackled on the hearth , and merry voices and light hearted laughter rang through the room . 
If any of the old English yeomen had turned into fairies when they died , it was just the place in which they would have held their revels . 
'You mean to dance ? said Wardle . 
'Of course I do , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Don't you see I am dressed for the purpose ? Mr. Pickwick called attention to his speckled silk stockings , and smartly tied pumps . 
'YOU in silk stockings ! exclaimed Mr. Tupman jocosely . 
'And why not , sir why not ? said Mr. Pickwick , turning warmly upon him . 
'Oh , of course there is no reason why you shouldn't wear them , responded Mr. Tupman . 
'I imagine not , sir I imagine not , said Mr. Pickwick , in a very peremptory tone . 
Mr. Tupman had contemplated a laugh , but he found it was a serious matter so he looked grave , and said they were a pretty pattern . 
'I hope they are , said Mr. Pickwick , fixing his eyes upon his friend . 
'You see nothing extraordinary in the stockings , AS stockings , I trust , Sir ? 'Certainly not . 
Oh , certainly not , replied Mr. Tupman . 
He walked away and Mr. Pickwick's countenance resumed its customary benign expression . 
'Then begin at once , said Wardle . 
'Where's Arabella Allen ? cried a dozen voices . 
'And Winkle ? 'added Mr. Tupman . 
'What an extraordinary thing it is , Winkle , said Mr. Pickwick , rather pettishly , 'that you couldn't have taken your place before . 
'Not at all extraordinary , said Mr. Winkle . 
'Well , said Mr. Pickwick , with a very expressive smile , as his eyes rested on Arabella , 'well , I don't know that it WAS extraordinary , either , after all . 
However , there was no time to think more about the matter , for the fiddles and harp began in real earnest . 
Long before Mr. Pickwick was weary of dancing , the newly married couple had retired from the scene . 
'And so your family has games in the kitchen to night , my dear , has they ? inquired Sam of Emma . 
'Yes , Mr. Weller , replied Emma 'we always have on Christmas Eve . 
Master wouldn't neglect to keep it up on any account . 
'Oh , you've woke up , at last , have you ? said Sam . 
'What did they do to him ? inquired the fat boy , in a faltering voice . 
You'd better not carry that 'ere watch , says the old gen'l'm'n's friends , you'll be robbed on it , says they . 
Shall I ? says he . 
Yes , you will , says they . 
Murder ! says the old gen'l'm'n . 
All right , Sir , says the pickpocket , a wisperin' in his ear . 
The poor relations caught the people who they thought would like it , and , when the game flagged , got caught themselves . 
'This , said Mr. Pickwick , looking round him , 'this is , indeed , comfort . 
'Our invariable custom , replied Mr. Wardle . 
Trundle , my boy , rake up the fire . 
Up flew the bright sparks in myriads as the logs were stirred . 
The deep red blaze sent forth a rich glow , that penetrated into the farthest corner of the room , and cast its cheerful tint on every face . 
'Come , said Wardle , 'a song a Christmas song ! I'll give you one , in default of a better . 
'Bravo ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Fill up , cried Wardle . 
'A mild harvest night , by the tranquil light Of the modest and gentle moon , Has a far sweeter sheen for me , I ween , Than the broad and unblushing noon . 
But every leaf awakens my grief , As it lieth beneath the tree So let Autumn air be never so fair , It by no means agrees with me . 
Again was the fire replenished , and again went the wassail round . 
'How it snows ! said one of the men , in a low tone . 
'Snows , does it ? said Wardle . 
'Rough , cold night , Sir , replied the man 'and there's a wind got up , that drifts it across the fields , in a thick white cloud . 
'What does Jem say ? inquired the old lady . 
'There ain't anything the matter , is there ? 'No , no , mother , replied Wardle 'he says there's a snowdrift , and a wind that's piercing cold . 
I should know that , by the way it rumbles in the chimney . 
It was a Christmas Eve , too and I remember that on that very night he told us the story about the goblins that carried away old Gabriel Grub . 
'The story about what ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Oh , nothing , nothing , replied Wardle . 
'About an old sexton , that the good people down here suppose to have been carried away by goblins . 
'Suppose ! ejaculated the old lady . 
'He WAS carried away by goblins , Pickwick and there's an end of the matter . 
'No , no , said Mr. Pickwick , 'not an end of it , I assure you for I must hear how , and why , and all about it . 
So here goes , to give the goblin a fair start in a new one . 
A clear stage and no favour for the goblins , ladies and gentlemen , if you please . 
'He took off his coat , set down his lantern , and getting into the unfinished grave , worked at it for an hour or so with right good will . 
A coffin at Christmas ! A Christmas box ! Ho ! ho ! ho ! Ho ! ho ! ho ! repeated a voice which sounded close behind him . 
'Gabriel paused , in some alarm , in the act of raising the wicker bottle to his lips , and looked round . 
The bottom of the oldest grave about him was not more still and quiet than the churchyard in the pale moonlight . 
The cold hoar frost glistened on the tombstones , and sparkled like rows of gems , among the stone carvings of the old church . 
Not the faintest rustle broke the profound tranquillity of the solemn scene . 
Sound itself appeared to be frozen up , all was so cold and still . 
It was the echoes , said Gabriel Grub , raising the bottle to his lips again . 
It was NOT , said a deep voice . 
'Gabriel started up , and stood rooted to the spot with astonishment and terror for his eyes rested on a form that made his blood run cold . 
'Seated on an upright tombstone , close to him , was a strange , unearthly figure , whom Gabriel felt at once , was no being of this world . 
On his head , he wore a broad brimmed sugar loaf hat , garnished with a single feather . 
The hat was covered with the white frost and the goblin looked as if he had sat on the same tombstone very comfortably , for two or three hundred years . 
He was sitting perfectly still his tongue was put out , as if in derision and he was grinning at Gabriel Grub with such a grin as only a goblin could call up . 
It was NOT the echoes , said the goblin . 
'Gabriel Grub was paralysed , and could make no reply . 
What do you do here on Christmas Eve ? said the goblin sternly . 
I came to dig a grave , Sir , stammered Gabriel Grub . 
What man wanders among graves and churchyards on such a night as this ? cried the goblin . 
Gabriel Grub ! Gabriel Grub ! screamed a wild chorus of voices that seemed to fill the churchyard . 
Gabriel looked fearfully round nothing was to be seen . 
What have you got in that bottle ? said the goblin . 
Who drinks Hollands alone , and in a churchyard , on such a night as this ? said the goblin . 
Gabriel Grub ! Gabriel Grub ! exclaimed the wild voices again . 
Work ! said the goblin , what work ? The grave , Sir making the grave , stammered the sexton . 
We know the man who struck the boy in the envious malice of his heart , because the boy could be merry , and he could not . 
We know him , we know him . 
I I am afraid I must leave you , Sir , said the sexton , making an effort to move . 
Leave us ! said the goblin , Gabriel Grub going to leave us . 
Cold to night , said the king of the goblins , very cold . 
A crowd of little children were gathered round a bright fire , clinging to their mother's gown , and gambolling around her chair . 
A knock was heard at the door the mother opened it , and the children crowded round her , and clapped their hands for joy , as their father entered . 
'But a change came upon the view , almost imperceptibly . 
'Again the light cloud passed across the picture , and again the subject changed . 
Slowly and peacefully , the father sank into the grave , and , soon after , the sharer of all his cares and troubles followed him to a place of rest . 
The cloud settled upon the picture , and concealed it from the sexton's view . 
What do you think of THAT ? said the goblin , turning his large face towards Gabriel Grub . 
'Gabriel murmured out something about its being very pretty , and looked somewhat ashamed , as the goblin bent his fiery eyes upon him . 
You miserable man ! said the goblin , in a tone of excessive contempt . 
Show him some more ! said the king of the goblins . 
The sun shone from out the clear blue sky , the water sparkled beneath his rays , and the trees looked greener , and the flowers more gay , beneath its cheering influence . 
Yes , it was morning the bright , balmy morning of summer the minutest leaf , the smallest blade of grass , was instinct with life . 
Man walked forth , elated with the scene and all was brightness and splendour . 
YOU a miserable man ! said the king of the goblins , in a more contemptuous tone than before . 
And again the king of the goblins gave his leg a flourish again it descended on the shoulders of the sexton and again the attendant goblins imitated the example of their chief . 
No sooner had he formed it , than the cloud which had closed over the last picture , seemed to settle on his senses , and lull him to repose . 
One by one , the goblins faded from his sight and , as the last one disappeared , he sank to sleep . 
'But he was an altered man , and he could not bear the thought of returning to a place where his repentance would be scoffed at , and his reformation disbelieved . 
He hesitated for a few moments and then turned away to wander where he might , and seek his bread elsewhere . 
'The lantern , the spade , and the wicker bottle were found , that day , in the churchyard . 
'Unfortunately , these stories were somewhat disturbed by the unlooked for reappearance of Gabriel Grub himself , some ten years afterwards , a ragged , contented , rheumatic old man . 
'Severe weather , Sam , observed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Fine time for them as is well wropped up , as the Polar bear said to himself , ven he was practising his skating , replied Mr. Weller . 
'I shall be down in a quarter of an hour , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , untying his nightcap . 
'Wery good , sir , replied Sam . 
'There's a couple o' sawbones downstairs . 
'A couple of what ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , sitting up in bed . 
'A couple o' sawbones , said Sam . 
'What's a sawbones ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , not quite certain whether it was a live animal , or something to eat . 
'What ! Don't you know what a sawbones is , sir ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'I thought everybody know'd as a sawbones was a surgeon . 
'Oh , a surgeon , eh ? said Mr. Pickwick , with a smile . 
'Just that , sir , replied Sam . 
'These here ones as is below , though , ain't reg'lar thoroughbred sawbones they're only in trainin' . 
'In other words they're medical students , I suppose ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I am glad of it , said Mr. Pickwick , casting his nightcap energetically on the counterpane . 
'They are fine fellows very fine fellows with judgments matured by observation and reflection and tastes refined by reading and study . 
I am very glad of it . 
'They're a smokin' cigars by the kitchen fire , said Sam . 
'Ah ! observed Mr. Pickwick , rubbing his hands , 'overflowing with kindly feelings and animal spirits . 
Just what I like to see . 
'Eccentricities of genius , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick at the expiration of the quarter of an hour , went down to breakfast . 
'Here he is at last ! said old Mr. Wardle . 
'Pickwick , this is Miss Allen's brother , Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
Ben we call him , and so may you , if you like . 
This gentleman is his very particular friend , Mr. 'Mr . 
Bob Sawyer , 'interposed Mr. Benjamin Allen whereupon Mr. Bob Sawyer and Mr. Benjamin Allen laughed in concert . 
Mr. Pickwick bowed to Bob Sawyer , and Bob Sawyer bowed to Mr. Pickwick . 
Bob and his very particular friend then applied themselves most assiduously to the eatables before them and Mr. Pickwick had an opportunity of glancing at them both . 
Mr. Benjamin Allen was a coarse , stout , thick set young man , with black hair cut rather short , and a white face cut rather long . 
He was embellished with spectacles , and wore a white neckerchief . 
He presented , altogether , rather a mildewy appearance , and emitted a fragrant odour of full flavoured Cubas . 
He wore a pair of plaid trousers , and a large , rough , double breasted waistcoat out of doors , he carried a thick stick with a big top . 
He eschewed gloves , and looked , upon the whole , something like a dissipated Robinson Crusoe . 
Such were the two worthies to whom Mr. Pickwick was introduced , as he took his seat at the breakfast table on Christmas morning . 
'Splendid morning , gentlemen , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Bob Sawyer slightly nodded his assent to the proposition , and asked Mr. Benjamin Allen for the mustard . 
'Have you come far this morning , gentlemen ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Blue Lion at Muggleton , briefly responded Mr. Allen . 
'You should have joined us last night , said Mr. Pickwick . 
The particular friends resumed their attack upon the breakfast , more freely than before , as if the recollection of last night's supper had imparted a new relish to the meal . 
'Peg away , Bob , said Mr. Allen , to his companion , encouragingly . 
'So I do , replied Bob Sawyer . 
And so , to do him justice , he did . 
'Nothing like dissecting , to give one an appetite , said Mr. Bob Sawyer , looking round the table . 
'By the bye , Bob , said Mr. Allen , 'have you finished that leg yet ? 'Nearly , replied Sawyer , helping himself to half a fowl as he spoke . 
'It's a very muscular one for a child's . 
'Is it ? inquired Mr. Allen carelessly . 
'Very , said Bob Sawyer , with his mouth full . 
'I've put my name down for an arm at our place , said Mr. Allen . 
'We're clubbing for a subject , and the list is nearly full , only we can't get hold of any fellow that wants a head . 
I wish you'd take it . 
'No , replied 'Bob Sawyer 'can't afford expensive luxuries . 
'Can't , indeed , rejoined Bob Sawyer , 'I wouldn't mind a brain , but I couldn't stand a whole head . 
'Hush , hush , gentlemen , pray , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I hear the ladies . 
As Mr. Pickwick spoke , the ladies , gallantly escorted by Messrs . 
Snodgrass , Winkle , and Tupman , returned from an early walk . 
'Why , Ben ! said Arabella , in a tone which expressed more surprise than pleasure at the sight of her brother . 
'Come to take you home to morrow , replied Benjamin . 
'Don't you see Bob Sawyer , Arabella ? inquired Mr. Benjamin Allen , somewhat reproachfully . 
Arabella gracefully held out her hand , in acknowledgment of Bob Sawyer's presence . 
A thrill of hatred struck to Mr. Winkle's heart , as Bob Sawyer inflicted on the proffered hand a perceptible squeeze . 
Here Mr. Allen bowed grimly to Mr. Winkle , while Mr. Winkle and Mr. Bob Sawyer glanced mutual distrust out of the corners of their eyes . 
'Capital ! said Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'Prime ! ejaculated Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'You skate , of course , Winkle ? said Wardle . 
'Ye yes oh , yes , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'I I am RATHER out of practice . 
'Oh , DO skate , Mr. Winkle , said Arabella . 
'I like to see it so much . 
'Oh , it is SO graceful , said another young lady . 
A third young lady said it was elegant , and a fourth expressed her opinion that it was 'swan like . 
'I should be very happy , I'm sure , said Mr. Winkle , reddening 'but I have no skates . 
This objection was at once overruled . 
Trundle had a couple of pair , and the fat boy announced that there were half a dozen more downstairs whereat Mr. Winkle expressed exquisite delight , and looked exquisitely uncomfortable . 
At length , however , with the assistance of Mr. Weller , the unfortunate skates were firmly screwed and buckled on , and Mr. Winkle was raised to his feet . 
'Now , then , Sir , said Sam , in an encouraging tone 'off vith you , and show 'em how to do it . 
'Stop , Sam , stop ! said Mr. Winkle , trembling violently , and clutching hold of Sam's arms with the grasp of a drowning man . 
'How slippery it is , Sam ! 'Not an uncommon thing upon ice , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'These these are very awkward skates ain't they , Sam ? inquired Mr. Winkle , staggering . 
'I'm afeerd there's a orkard gen'l'm'n in 'em , Sir , replied Sam . 
'Now , Winkle , cried Mr. Pickwick , quite unconscious that there was anything the matter . 
'Come the ladies are all anxiety . 
'Yes , yes , replied Mr. Winkle , with a ghastly smile . 
'Just a goin' to begin , said Sam , endeavouring to disengage himself . 
'Now , Sir , start off ! 'Stop an instant , Sam , gasped Mr. Winkle , clinging most affectionately to Mr. Weller . 
'I find I've got a couple of coats at home that I don't want , Sam . 
You may have them , Sam . 
'Thank'ee , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Never mind touching your hat , Sam , said Mr. Winkle hastily . 
'You needn't take your hand away to do that . 
I meant to have given you five shillings this morning for a Christmas box , Sam . 
I'll give it you this afternoon , Sam . 
'You're wery good , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Just hold me at first , Sam will you ? said Mr. Winkle . 
I shall soon get in the way of it , Sam . 
Not too fast , Sam not too fast . 
'Let go , Sir , said Sam . 
'Don't you hear the governor a callin' ? Let go , sir . 
With a violent effort , Mr. Weller disengaged himself from the grasp of the agonised Pickwickian , and , in so doing , administered a considerable impetus to the unhappy Mr. Winkle . 
Mr. Winkle struck wildly against him , and with a loud crash they both fell heavily down . 
Mr. Pickwick ran to the spot . 
Bob Sawyer had risen to his feet , but Mr. Winkle was far too wise to do anything of the kind , in skates . 
He was seated on the ice , making spasmodic efforts to smile but anguish was depicted on every lineament of his countenance . 
'Are you hurt ? inquired Mr. Benjamin Allen , with great anxiety . 
'Not much , said Mr. Winkle , rubbing his back very hard . 
'I wish you'd let me bleed you , said Mr. Benjamin , with great eagerness . 
'No , thank you , replied Mr. Winkle hurriedly . 
'I really think you had better , said Allen . 
'Thank you , replied Mr. Winkle 'I'd rather not . 
'What do YOU think , Mr. Pickwick ? inquired Bob Sawyer . 
Mr. Pickwick was excited and indignant . 
He beckoned to Mr. Weller , and said in a stern voice , 'Take his skates off . 
'No but really I had scarcely begun , remonstrated Mr. Winkle . 
'Take his skates off , repeated Mr. Pickwick firmly . 
The command was not to be resisted . 
Mr. Winkle allowed Sam to obey it , in silence . 
'Lift him up , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Sam assisted him to rise . 
'A what ? said Mr. Winkle , starting . 
I will speak plainer , if you wish it . 
With those words , Mr. Pickwick turned slowly on his heel , and rejoined his friends . 
It was a good long slide , and there was something in the motion which Mr. Pickwick , who was very cold with standing still , could not help envying . 
'Ah , it does , indeed , replied Wardle . 
'Do you slide ? 'I used to do so , on the gutters , when I was a boy , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Try it now , said Wardle . 
'Oh , do , please , Mr. Pickwick ! cried all the ladies . 
'I should be very happy to afford you any amusement , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'but I haven't done such a thing these thirty years . 
'Pooh ! pooh ! Nonsense ! said Wardle , dragging off his skates with the impetuosity which characterised all his proceedings . 
The sport was at its height , the sliding was at the quickest , the laughter was at the loudest , when a sharp smart crack was heard . 
There was a quick rush towards the bank , a wild scream from the ladies , and a shout from Mr. Tupman . 
'Keep yourself up for an instant for only one instant ! bawled Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Yes , do let me implore you for my sake ! roared Mr. Winkle , deeply affected . 
'Do you feel the bottom there , old fellow ? said Wardle . 
'Yes , certainly , replied Mr. Pickwick , wringing the water from his head and face , and gasping for breath . 
'I fell upon my back . 
I couldn't get on my feet at first . 
After a vast quantity of splashing , and cracking , and struggling , Mr. Pickwick was at length fairly extricated from his unpleasant position , and once more stood on dry land . 
'Oh , he'll catch his death of cold , said Emily . 
'Dear old thing ! said Arabella . 
'Let me wrap this shawl round you , Mr. Pickwick . 
A dozen shawls were offered on the instant . 
Mr. Pickwick paused not an instant until he was snug in bed . 
Old Wardle would not hear of his rising , so they made the bed the chair , and Mr. Pickwick presided . 
The jovial party broke up next morning . 
Breakings up are capital things in our school days , but in after life they are painful enough . 
'I wish you'd come and see me , said Bob Sawyer . 
'Nothing would give me greater pleasure , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'There's my lodgings , said Mr. Bob Sawyer , producing a card . 
'Lant Street , Borough it's near Guy's , and handy for me , you know . 
Little distance after you've passed St . 
George's Church turns out of the High Street on the right hand side the way . 
'I shall find it , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Come on Thursday fortnight , and bring the other chaps with you , said Mr. Bob Sawyer 'I'm going to have a few medical fellows that night . 
If our observant lady readers can deduce any satisfactory inferences from these facts , we beg them by all means to do so . 
There are several grades of lawyers' clerks . 
There is the middle aged copying clerk , with a large family , who is always shabby , and often drunk . 
He produced from his coat pockets a long and narrow strip of parchment , on which the presiding functionary impressed an illegible black stamp . 
'Call Mr. Pickwick's servant , Tom , said the barmaid of the George and Vulture . 
'Don't trouble yourself , said Mr. Jackson . 
If you'll show me Mr. Pickwick's room I'll step up myself . 
'What name , Sir ? said the waiter . 
'Jackson , replied the clerk . 
The waiter stepped upstairs to announce Mr. Jackson but Mr. Jackson saved him the trouble by following close at his heels , and walking into the apartment before he could articulate a syllable . 
'How de do , sir ? said Mr. Jackson , nodding to Mr. Pickwick . 
That gentleman bowed , and looked somewhat surprised , for the physiognomy of Mr. Jackson dwelt not in his recollection . 
'I have called from Dodson and Fogg's , said Mr. Jackson , in an explanatory tone . 
Mr. Pickwick roused at the name . 
'I refer you to my attorney , Sir Mr. Perker , of Gray's Inn , said he . 
'Waiter , show this gentleman out . 
'Beg your pardon , Mr. Pickwick , said Jackson , deliberately depositing his hat on the floor , and drawing from his pocket the strip of parchment . 
Which of you gentlemen's name's Snodgrass ? At this inquiry , Mr. Snodgrass gave such a very undisguised and palpable start , that no further reply was needed . 
'Ah ! I thought so , said Mr. Jackson , more affably than before . 
'I've a little something to trouble you with , Sir . 
'Me ! 'exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass . 
'It'll come on , in the settens after Term fourteenth of Febooary , we expect we've marked it a special jury cause , and it's only ten down the paper . 
That's yours , Mr. Snodgrass . 
As Jackson said this , he presented the parchment before the eyes of Mr. Snodgrass , and slipped the paper and the shilling into his hand . 
'And that other gentleman's Mr. Winkle , I think ? said Jackson . 
Mr. Winkle faltered out a reply in the affirmative and both gentlemen were forthwith invested with a slip of paper , and a shilling each , by the dexterous Mr. Jackson . 
'Now , said Jackson , 'I'm afraid you'll think me rather troublesome , but I want somebody else , if it ain't inconvenient . 
I have Samuel Weller's name here , Mr. Pickwick . 
'Send my servant here , waiter , said Mr. Pickwick . 
The waiter retired , considerably astonished , and Mr. Pickwick motioned Jackson to a seat . 
There was a painful pause , which was at length broken by the innocent defendant . 
No harm in trying , but there's little to be got out of me . 
which was familiarly denominated 'taking a grinder . 
'No , no , Mr. Pickwick , said Jackson , in conclusion 'Perker's people must guess what we've served these subpoenas for . 
If they can't , they must wait till the action comes on , and then they'll find out . 
Mr. Pickwick bestowed a look of excessive disgust on his unwelcome visitor , and would probably have hurled some tremendous anathema at the heads of Messrs . 
Dodson Fogg , had not Sam's entrance at the instant interrupted him . 
'Samuel Weller ? said Mr. Jackson , inquiringly . 
'Vun o' the truest things as you've said for many a long year , replied Sam , in a most composed manner . 
'Here's a subpoena for you , Mr. Weller , said Jackson . 
'What's that in English ? inquired Sam . 
'Here's the original , said Jackson , declining the required explanation . 
'This , replied Jackson , shaking the parchment . 
'Oh , that's the 'rig'nal , is it ? said Sam . 
'Well , I'm wery glad I've seen the 'rig'nal , 'cos it's a gratifyin' sort o' thing , and eases vun's mind so much . 
'And here's the shilling , said Jackson . 
'It's from Dodson and Fogg's . 
'And it's uncommon handsome o' Dodson and Fogg , as knows so little of me , to come down vith a present , said Sam . 
'I feel it as a wery high compliment , sir it's a wery honorable thing to them , as they knows how to reward merit werever they meets it . 
Besides which , it's affectin' to one's feelin's . 
Mr. Pickwick slept little that night his memory had received a very disagreeable refresher on the subject of Mrs. Bardell's action . 
He breakfasted betimes next morning , and , desiring Sam to accompany him , set forth towards Gray's Inn Square . 
'Sam ! said Mr. Pickwick , looking round , when they got to the end of Cheapside . 
'Sir ? said Sam , stepping up to his master . 
'Which way ? 'Up Newgate Street . 
Mr. Pickwick did not turn round immediately , but looked vacantly in Sam's face for a few seconds , and heaved a deep sigh . 
'What's the matter , sir ? inquired Sam . 
'This action , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'is expected to come on , on the fourteenth of next month . 
'Remarkable coincidence that 'ere , sir , replied Sam . 
'Why remarkable , Sam ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Walentine's day , sir , responded Sam 'reg'lar good day for a breach o' promise trial . 
Mr. Weller's smile awakened no gleam of mirth in his master's countenance . 
Mr. Pickwick turned abruptly round , and led the way in silence . 
'Yes , it seems so , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Celebrated sassage factory , said Sam . 
'Is it ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Is it ! reiterated Sam , with some indignation 'I should rayther think it was . 
Why , sir , bless your innocent eyebrows , that's where the mysterious disappearance of a 'spectable tradesman took place four years ago . 
'You don't mean to say he was burked , Sam ? said Mr. Pickwick , looking hastily round . 
'No , I don't indeed , sir , replied Mr. Weller , 'I wish I did far worse than that . 
She was always a follerin' him about , and dinnin' in his ears , till at last he couldn't stand it no longer . 
You're a idle willin , says she , and I wish the 'Merrikins joy of their bargain . 
Well , next mornin' , the husband was missin' . 
He hadn't taken nothin' from the till hadn't even put on his greatcoat so it was quite clear he warn't gone to 'Merriker . 
the canals was dragged , and for two months arterwards , wenever a body turned up , it was carried , as a reg'lar thing , straight off to the sassage shop . 
Hows'ever , none on 'em answered so they gave out that he'd run away , and she kep' on the bis'ness . 
As buttons , Sir ! says she . 
Buttons , ma'am , says the little , old gentleman , unfolding a bit of paper , and showin' twenty or thirty halves o' buttons . 
Nice seasonin' for sassages , is trousers' buttons , ma'am . 
They're my husband's buttons ! says the widder beginnin' to faint , What ! screams the little old gen'l'm'n , turnin' wery pale . 
Lowten , holding the door half open , was in conversation with a rustily clad , miserable looking man , in boots without toes and gloves without fingers . 
'It's very unfortunate , said the stranger , with a sigh . 
'Very , said Lowten , scribbling his name on the doorpost with his pen , and rubbing it out again with the feather . 
'Will you leave a message for him ? 'When do you think he'll be back ? inquired the stranger . 
'Quite uncertain , replied Lowten , winking at Mr. Pickwick , as the stranger cast his eyes towards the ground . 
'You don't think it would be of any use my waiting for him ? said the stranger , looking wistfully into the office . 
'Oh , no , I'm sure it wouldn't , replied the clerk , moving a little more into the centre of the doorway . 
'Out of town ! said Mr. Pickwick 'dear me , how unfortunate ! 'Don't go away , Mr. Pickwick , said Lowten , 'I've got a letter for you . 
'Step in , Mr. Pickwick , said Lowten . 
'No , no I won't forget it , replied the clerk . 
'Walk in , Mr. Pickwick . 
'There never was such a pestering bankrupt as that since the world began , I do believe ! said Lowten , throwing down his pen with the air of an injured man . 
'His affairs haven't been in Chancery quite four years yet , and I'm d d if he don't come worrying here twice a week . 
Step this way , Mr. Pickwick . 
Perker IS in , and he'll see you , I know . 
'Ah , my dear Sir , said little Mr. Perker , bustling up from his chair . 
'Well , my dear sir , and what's the news about your matter , eh ? Anything more about our friends in Freeman's Court ? They've not been sleeping , I know that . 
Ah , they're very smart fellows very smart , indeed . 
As the little man concluded , he took an emphatic pinch of snuff , as a tribute to the smartness of Messrs . 
'They are great scoundrels , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Well , we've done everything that's necessary . 
I have retained Serjeant Snubbin . 
'Is he a good man ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Good man ! replied Perker 'bless your heart and soul , my dear Sir , Serjeant Snubbin is at the very top of his profession . 
Gets treble the business of any man in court engaged in every case . 
You needn't mention it abroad but we say we of the profession that Serjeant Snubbin leads the court by the nose . 
The little man took another pinch of snuff as he made this communication , and nodded mysteriously to Mr. Pickwick . 
'They have subpoenaed my three friends , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Ah ! of course they would , replied Perker . 
'Important witnesses saw you in a delicate situation . 
'But she fainted of her own accord , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'She threw herself into my arms . 
'Very likely , my dear Sir , replied Perker 'very likely and very natural . 
Nothing more so , my dear Sir , nothing . 
But who's to prove it ? 'They have subpoenaed my servant , too , said Mr. Pickwick , quitting the other point for there Mr. Perker's question had somewhat staggered him . 
Mr. Pickwick replied in the affirmative . 
'Of course , my dear Sir of course . 
I could have told you that , a month ago . 
You know , my dear Sir , if you WILL take the management of your affairs into your own hands after entrusting them to your solicitor , you must also take the consequences . 
Here Mr. Perker drew himself up with conscious dignity , and brushed some stray grains of snuff from his shirt frill . 
'And what do they want him to prove ? asked Mr. Pickwick , after two or three minutes' silence . 
'That you sent him up to the plaintiff 's to make some offer of a compromise , I suppose , replied Perker . 
'It don't matter much , though I don't think many counsel could get a great deal out of HIM . 
'I don't think they could , said Mr. Pickwick , smiling , despite his vexation , at the idea of Sam's appearance as a witness . 
'And suppose the verdict is against me ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Perker smiled , took a very long pinch of snuff , stirred the fire , shrugged his shoulders , and remained expressively silent . 
'You mean that in that case I must pay the damages ? said Mr. Pickwick , who had watched this telegraphic answer with considerable sternness . 
Perker gave the fire another very unnecessary poke , and said , 'I am afraid so . 
'Then I beg to announce to you my unalterable determination to pay no damages whatever , said Mr. Pickwick , most emphatically . 
Not a pound , not a penny of my money , shall find its way into the pockets of Dodson and Fogg . 
That is my deliberate and irrevocable determination . 
Mr. Pickwick gave a heavy blow on the table before him , in confirmation of the irrevocability of his intention . 
'Very well , my dear Sir , very well , said Perker . 
'You know best , of course . 
'Of course , replied Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
'Where does Serjeant Snubbin live ? 'In Lincoln's Inn Old Square , replied Perker . 
'I should like to see him , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'See Serjeant Snubbin , my dear Sir ! rejoined Perker , in utter amazement . 
'Pooh , pooh , my dear Sir , impossible . 
See Serjeant Snubbin ! Bless you , my dear Sir , such a thing was never heard of , without a consultation fee being previously paid , and a consultation fixed . 
It couldn't be done , my dear Sir it couldn't be done . 
'Is the Serjeant in his room , Mr. Mallard ? inquired Perker , offering his box with all imaginable courtesy . 
'Yes , he is , was the reply , 'but he's very busy . 
Look here not an opinion given yet , on any one of these cases and an expedition fee paid with all of 'em . 
The clerk smiled as he said this , and inhaled the pinch of snuff with a zest which seemed to be compounded of a fondness for snuff and a relish for fees . 
'Something like practice that , said Perker . 
When a man bleeds inwardly , it is a dangerous thing for himself but when he laughs inwardly , it bodes no good to other people . 
'You haven't made me out that little list of the fees that I'm in your debt , have you ? said Perker . 
'No , I have not , replied the clerk . 
'I wish you would , said Perker . 
'Let me have them , and I'll send you a cheque . 
'Come , come , said the clerk , 'that's not bad either . 
See the Serjeant ! come , that's too absurd . 
Mr. Serjeant Snubbins was a lantern faced , sallow complexioned man , of about five and forty , or as the novels say he might be fifty . 
Pickwick is the defendant in Bardell and Pickwick , Serjeant Snubbin , said Perker . 
'I am retained in that , am I ? said the Serjeant . 
'You are , Sir , replied Perker . 
The Serjeant nodded his head , and waited for something else . 
I believe I state your views correctly do I not , my dear Sir ? said the little man , turning to Mr. Pickwick . 
'Quite so , replied that gentleman . 
'Do you propose calling witnesses ? 'No . 
The smile on the Serjeant's countenance became more defined he rocked his leg with increased violence and , throwing himself back in his easy chair , coughed dubiously . 
These tokens of the Serjeant's presentiments on the subject , slight as they were , were not lost on Mr. Pickwick . 
The Serjeant tried to look gravely at the fire , but the smile came back again . 
'Gentlemen of your profession , Sir , continued Mr. Pickwick , 'see the worst side of human nature . 
All its disputes , all its ill will and bad blood , rise up before you . 
I really believe that to this circumstance may be attributed the vulgar but very general notion of your being , as a body , suspicious , distrustful , and over cautious . 
Long before the close of this address , which we are bound to say was of a very prosy character for Mr. Pickwick , the Serjeant had relapsed into a state of abstraction . 
Phunky , Serjeant Snubbin , replied the attorney . 
'Phunky Phunky , said the Serjeant , 'I never heard the name before . 
He must be a very young man . 
'Yes , he is a very young man , replied the attorney . 
'He was only called the other day . 
Let me see he has not been at the Bar eight years yet . 
'Ah , I thought not , said the Serjeant , in that sort of pitying tone in which ordinary folks would speak of a very helpless little child . 
Mallard , send round to Mr. Mr. 'Phunky's Holborn Court , Gray's Inn , interposed Perker . 
Phunky , and say I should be glad if he'd step here , a moment . 
Mr. Mallard departed to execute his commission and Serjeant Snubbin relapsed into abstraction until Mr. Phunky himself was introduced . 
Although an infant barrister , he was a full grown man . 
He was overawed by the Serjeant , and profoundly courteous to the attorney . 
'I have not had the pleasure of seeing you before , Mr. Phunky , said Serjeant Snubbin , with haughty condescension . 
He HAD had the pleasure of seeing the Serjeant , and of envying him too , with all a poor man's envy , for eight years and a quarter . 
'You are with me in this case , I understand ? said the Serjeant . 
'Have you read the papers , Mr. Phunky ? inquired the Serjeant . 
'This is Mr. Pickwick , said the Serjeant , waving his pen in the direction in which that gentleman was standing . 
Mr. Phunky bowed to Mr. Pickwick , with a reverence which a first client must ever awaken and again inclined his head towards his leader . 
'Perhaps you will take Mr. Pickwick away , said the Serjeant , 'and and and hear anything Mr. Pickwick may wish to communicate . 
We shall have a consultation , of course . 
Mr. Weller was then roused by his master from a sweet sleep of an hour's duration and , bidding adieu to Lowten , they returned to the city . 
There are always a good many houses to let in the street it is a by street too , and its dulness is soothing . 
A house in Lant Street would not come within the denomination of a first rate residence , in the strict acceptation of the term but it is a most desirable spot nevertheless . 
The majority of the inhabitants either direct their energies to the letting of furnished apartments , or devote themselves to the healthful and invigorating pursuit of mangling . 
The population is migratory , usually disappearing on the verge of quarter day , and generally by night . 
His Majesty's revenues are seldom collected in this happy valley the rents are dubious and the water communication is very frequently cut off . 
The preparations for the reception of visitors appeared to be completed . 
Notwithstanding the highly satisfactory nature of all these arrangements , there was a cloud on the countenance of Mr. Bob Sawyer , as he sat by the fireside . 
She might at least have waited till to morrow . 
'That's her malevolence that's her malevolence , returned Mr. Bob Sawyer vehemently . 
'She says that if I can afford to give a party I ought to be able to pay her confounded little bill . 
'How long has it been running ? inquired Mr. Ben Allen . 
A bill , by the bye , is the most extraordinary locomotive engine that the genius of man ever produced . 
It would keep on running during the longest lifetime , without ever once stopping of its own accord . 
'Only a quarter , and a month or so , replied Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
Ben Allen coughed hopelessly , and directed a searching look between the two top bars of the stove . 
'It'll be a deuced unpleasant thing if she takes it into her head to let out , when those fellows are here , won't it ? said Mr. Ben Allen at length . 
'Horrible , replied Bob Sawyer , 'horrible . 
A low tap was heard at the room door . 
Mr , Bob Sawyer glanced at his friend with a look of abject apprehension , and once more cried , 'Come in . 
Here the little woman rubbed her hands , and looked steadily over Mr. Bob Sawyer's head , at the wall behind him . 
'I didn't want it particular before to day leastways , as it has to go to my landlord directly , it was as well for you to keep it as me . 
Mrs. Raddle tossed her head , bit her lips , rubbed her hands harder , and looked at the wall more steadily than ever . 
It was plain to see , as Mr. Bob Sawyer remarked in a style of Eastern allegory on a subsequent occasion , that she was 'getting the steam up . 
'I am very sorry , Mrs. Raddle , said Bob Sawyer , with all imaginable humility , 'but the fact is , that I have been disappointed in the City to day . 
An astonishing number of men always ARE getting disappointed there . 
This was all Mrs. Raddle wanted . 
She was in excellent order for a little relaxation of the kind , having just exchanged a few introductory compliments with Mr. R. in the front kitchen . 
'I am not aweer , Sir , that you have any right to address your conversation to me . 
I don't think I let these apartments to you , Sir . 
'No , you certainly did not , said Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'Very good , Sir , responded Mrs. Raddle , with lofty politeness . 
'But you are such an unreasonable woman , remonstrated Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'I beg your parding , young man , said Mrs. Raddle , in a cold perspiration of anger . 
'I beg your parding , young man , demanded Mrs. Raddle , in a louder and more imperative tone . 
'But who do you call a woman ? Did you make that remark to me , sir ? 'Why , bless my heart ! said Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'Did you apply that name to me , I ask of you , sir ? interrupted Mrs. Raddle , with intense fierceness , throwing the door wide open . 
'Why , of course I did , replied Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'Does Mr. Sawyer live here ? said Mr. Pickwick , when the door was opened . 
'Yes , said the girl , 'first floor . 
It's the door straight afore you , when you gets to the top of the stairs . 
'How are you ? said the discomfited student . 
'Glad to see you take care of the glasses . 
This caution was addressed to Mr. Pickwick , who had put his hat in the tray . 
'Dear me , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I beg your pardon . 
'Don't mention it , don't mention it , said Bob Sawyer . 
'I'm rather confined for room here , but you must put up with all that , when you come to see a young bachelor . 
You've seen this gentleman before , I think ? Mr. Pickwick shook hands with Mr. Benjamin Allen , and his friends followed his example . 
They had scarcely taken their seats when there was another double knock . 
'I hope that's Jack Hopkins ! said Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
Come up , Jack come up . 
A heavy footstep was heard upon the stairs , and Jack Hopkins presented himself . 
He wore a black velvet waistcoat , with thunder and lightning buttons and a blue striped shirt , with a white false collar . 
'You're late , Jack ? said Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'Been detained at Bartholomew's , replied Hopkins . 
'Anything new ? 'No , nothing particular . 
Rather a good accident brought into the casualty ward . 
'What was that , sir ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Only a man fallen out of a four pair of stairs' window but it's a very fair case indeed . 
'Do you mean that the patient is in a fair way to recover ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , replied Mr. Hopkins carelessly . 
'No , I should rather say he wouldn't . 
There must be a splendid operation , though , to morrow magnificent sight if Slasher does it . 
'You consider Mr. Slasher a good operator ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Best alive , replied Hopkins . 
'Dear me ! said Mr. Pickwick , astonished . 
'Pooh ! That's nothing , that ain't , said Jack Hopkins . 
'Is it , Bob ? 'Nothing at all , replied Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'By the bye , Bob , said Hopkins , with a scarcely perceptible glance at Mr. Pickwick's attentive face , 'we had a curious accident last night . 
A child was brought in , who had swallowed a necklace . 
'Swallowed what , Sir ? interrupted Mr. Pickwick . 
'A necklace , replied Jack Hopkins . 
Child's parents were poor people who lived in a court . 
Child's eldest sister bought a necklace common necklace , made of large black wooden beads . 
Child being fond of toys , cribbed the necklace , hid it , played with it , cut the string , and swallowed a bead . 
Child thought it capital fun , went back next day , and swallowed another bead . 
'Bless my heart , said Mr. Pickwick , 'what a dreadful thing ! I beg your pardon , Sir . 
Don't do that , my boy , said the father . 
I ain't a doin' nothing , said the child . 
Well , don't do it again , said the father . 
There was a short silence , and then the noise began again , worse than ever . 
If you don't mind what I say , my boy , said the father , you'll find yourself in bed , in something less than a pig's whisper . 
He gave the child a shake to make him obedient , and such a rattling ensued as nobody ever heard before . 
'That's the most extraordinary case I ever heard of , said Mr. Pickwick , with an emphatic blow on the table . 
'Oh , that's nothing , said Jack Hopkins . 
'Is it , Bob ? 'Certainly not , replied Bob Sawyer . 
'Very singular things occur in our profession , I can assure you , Sir , said Hopkins . 
'So I should be disposed to imagine , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
Another knock at the door announced a large headed young man in a black wig , who brought with him a scorbutic youth in a long stock . 
The next comer was a gentleman in a shirt emblazoned with pink anchors , who was closely followed by a pale youth with a plated watchguard . 
The arrival of a prim personage in clean linen and cloth boots rendered the party complete . 
it was not so easily got ready as some people may imagine . 
was in a similar predicament . 
However , there was plenty of porter in a tin can and the cheese went a great way , for it was very strong . 
So upon the whole , perhaps , the supper was quite as good as such matters usually are . 
After supper , another jug of punch was put upon the table , together with a paper of cigars , and a couple of bottles of spirits . 
Then there was an awful pause and this awful pause was occasioned by a very common occurrence in this sort of place , but a very embarrassing one notwithstanding . 
The fact is , the girl was washing the glasses . 
The establishment boasted four we do not record the circumstance as at all derogatory to Mrs. Raddle , for there never was a lodging house yet , that was not short of glasses . 
It is a very ill wind that blows nobody any good . 
'Dear me , said the prim man in the cloth boots , 'it is a very extraordinary circumstance . 
'I am sorry you have forgotten it , said Mr. Bob Sawyer , glancing eagerly at the door , as he thought he heard the noise of glasses jingling 'very sorry . 
'So am I , responded the prim man , 'because I know it would have afforded so much amusement . 
Never mind I dare say I shall manage to recollect it , in the course of half an hour or so . 
The sight of the tumblers restored Bob Sawyer to a degree of equanimity which he had not possessed since his interview with his landlady . 
His face brightened up , and he began to feel quite convivial . 
'You can't have no warm water , replied Betsy . 
'No warm water ! exclaimed Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'No , said the girl , with a shake of the head which expressed a more decided negative than the most copious language could have conveyed . 
'Missis Raddle said you warn't to have none . 
The surprise depicted on the countenances of his guests imparted new courage to the host . 
'Bring up the warm water instantly instantly ! said Mr. Bob Sawyer , with desperate sternness . 
I can't , replied the girl 'Missis Raddle raked out the kitchen fire afore she went to bed , and locked up the kittle . 
'Oh , never mind never mind . 
Pray don't disturb yourself about such a trifle , said Mr. Pickwick , observing the conflict of Bob Sawyer's passions , as depicted in his countenance , 'cold water will do very well . 
'Oh , admirably , said Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'My landlady is subject to some slight attacks of mental derangement , remarked Bob Sawyer , with a ghastly smile 'I fear I must give her warning . 
'No , don't , said Ben Allen . 
'I fear I must , said Bob , with heroic firmness . 
'I'll pay her what I owe her , and give her warning to morrow morning . 
'Sawyer , said the scorbutic youth , in a loud voice . 
'Well , Noddy , replied Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'What do you mean by that , sir ? inquired Mr. Noddy . 
'What I say , Sir , replied Mr. Gunter . 
'I should like to see you do it , Sir , said Mr. Noddy . 
'You shall FEEL me do it in half a minute , Sir , replied Mr. Gunter . 
'I request that you'll favour me with your card , Sir , said Mr. Noddy . 
'I'll do nothing of the kind , Sir , replied Mr. Gunter . 
'Why not , Sir ? inquired Mr. Noddy . 
'Because you'll stick it up over your chimney piece , and delude your visitors into the false belief that a gentleman has been to see you , Sir , replied Mr. Gunter . 
'Sir , a friend of mine shall wait on you in the morning , said Mr. Noddy . 
'Sir , I'm very much obliged to you for the caution , and I'll leave particular directions with the servant to lock up the spoons , replied Mr. Gunter . 
Mr. Gunter grasped it with affecting fervour and everybody said that the whole dispute had been conducted in a manner which was highly honourable to both parties concerned . 
'Now , said Jack Hopkins , 'just to set us going again , Bob , I don't mind singing a song . 
The chorus was the essence of the song and , as each gentleman sang it to the tune he knew best , the effect was very striking indeed . 
I thought I heard somebody calling from upstairs . 
A profound silence immediately ensued and Mr. Bob Sawyer was observed to turn pale . 
'I think I hear it now , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Have the goodness to open the door . 
The door was no sooner opened than all doubt on the subject was removed . 
Sawyer ! Mr. Sawyer ! screamed a voice from the two pair landing . 
'It's my landlady , said Bob Sawyer , looking round him with great dismay . 
'What do you mean by this , Mr. Sawyer ? replied the voice , with great shrillness and rapidity of utterance . 
'You ought to be ashamed of yourselves , said the voice of Mr. Raddle , which appeared to proceed from beneath some distant bed clothes . 
'Ashamed of themselves ! said Mrs. Raddle . 
'Why don't you go down and knock 'em every one downstairs ? You would if you was a man . 
'I should if I was a dozen men , my dear , replied Mr. Raddle pacifically , 'but they have the advantage of me in numbers , my dear . 
'Ugh , you coward ! replied Mrs. Raddle , with supreme contempt . 
'DO you mean to turn them wretches out , or not , Mr. Sawyer ? 'They're going , Mrs. Raddle , they're going , said the miserable Bob . 
'I am afraid you'd better go , said Mr. Bob Sawyer to his friends . 
'I thought you were making too much noise . 
'It's a very unfortunate thing , said the prim man . 
'Just as we were getting so comfortable too ! The prim man was just beginning to have a dawning recollection of the story he had forgotten . 
'It's hardly to be borne , said the prim man , looking round . 
'Hardly to be borne , is it ? 'Not to be endured , replied Jack Hopkins 'let's have the other verse , Bob . 
Come , here goes ! 'No , no , Jack , don't , interposed Bob Sawyer 'it's a capital song , but I am afraid we had better not have the other verse . 
They are very violent people , the people of the house . 
'Going ! said Mrs. Raddle , thrusting her nightcap over the banisters just as Mr. Pickwick , followed by Mr. Tupman , emerged from the sitting room . 
'Going ! what did they ever come for ? 'My dear ma'am , remonstrated Mr. Pickwick , looking up . 
'Get along with you , old wretch ! replied Mrs. Raddle , hastily withdrawing the nightcap . 
'Old enough to be his grandfather , you willin ! You're worse than any of 'em . 
Mr. Pickwick found it in vain to protest his innocence , so hurried downstairs into the street , whither he was closely followed by Mr. Tupman , Mr. Winkle , and Mr. Snodgrass . 
Is all going on well ? to which Mr. Perker invariably forwarded the reply , 'Dear Pickwick . 
'What's the t'other name ? said Sam Weller , looking round . 
'How should I know ? briskly replied the young gentleman below the hairy cap . 
'You're a sharp boy , you are , said Mr. Weller 'only I wouldn't show that wery fine edge too much , if I was you , in case anybody took it off . 
'What old gen'l'm'n ? inquired Sam , with deep disdain . 
'Him as drives a Ipswich coach , and uses our parlour , rejoined the boy . 
'He told me yesterday mornin' to come to the George and Wultur this arternoon , and ask for Sam . 
Shall I say you're comin' ? 'You may wenture on that 'ere statement , Sir , replied Sam . 
Having loitered here , for half an hour or so , Mr. Weller turned , and began wending his way towards Leadenhall Market , through a variety of by streets and courts . 
These articles having been promptly supplied , he walked on direct towards Leadenhall Market at a good round pace , very different from his recent lingering one . 
Looking round him , he there beheld a signboard on which the painter's art had delineated something remotely resembling a cerulean elephant with an aquiline nose in lieu of trunk . 
Rightly conjecturing that this was the Blue Boar himself , he stepped into the house , and inquired concerning his parent . 
'He won't be here this three quarters of an hour or more , said the young lady who superintended the domestic arrangements of the Blue Boar . 
'Wery good , my dear , replied Sam . 
'Vell , Sammy , said the father . 
'Vell , my Prooshan Blue , responded the son , laying down his pen . 
'What's the last bulletin about mother in law ? 'Mrs . 
Veller passed a very good night , but is uncommon perwerse , and unpleasant this mornin' . 
Signed upon oath , Tony Veller , Esquire . 
That's the last vun as was issued , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller , untying his shawl . 
'No better yet ? inquired Sam . 
'All the symptoms aggerawated , replied Mr. Weller , shaking his head . 
'But wot's that , you're a doin' of ? Pursuit of knowledge under difficulties , Sammy ? 'I've done now , said Sam , with slight embarrassment 'I've been a writin' . 
'So I see , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Not to any young 'ooman , I hope , Sammy ? 'Why , it's no use a sayin' it ain't , replied Sam 'it's a walentine . 
'A what ! exclaimed Mr. Weller , apparently horror stricken by the word . 
'A walentine , replied Sam . 
'Samivel , Samivel , said Mr. Weller , in reproachful accents , 'I didn't think you'd ha' done it . 
He raised Sam's tumbler to his lips and drank off its contents . 
'Wot's the matter now ? said Sam . 
'Wot'll be a trial ? inquired Sam . 
'To see you married , Sammy to see you a dilluded wictim , and thinkin' in your innocence that it's all wery capital , replied Mr. Weller . 
'It's a dreadful trial to a father's feelin's , that 'ere , Sammy 'Nonsense , said Sam . 
'I ain't a goin' to get married , don't you fret yourself about that I know you're a judge of these things . 
Order in your pipe and I'll read you the letter . 
Sam dipped his pen into the ink to be ready for any corrections , and began with a very theatrical air Lovely 'Stop , said Mr. Weller , ringing the bell . 
'A double glass o' the inwariable , my dear . 
'Very well , Sir , replied the girl who with great quickness appeared , vanished , returned , and disappeared . 
'They seem to know your ways here , observed Sam . 
'Yes , replied his father , 'I've been here before , in my time . 
Lovely creetur , repeated Sam . 
''Tain't in poetry , is it ? interposed his father . 
'No , no , replied Sam . 
'Wery glad to hear it , said Mr. Weller . 
'No it ain't damned , observed Sam , holding the letter up to the light , 'it's shamed , there's a blot there I feel myself ashamed . 
'Wery good , said Mr. Weller . 
Feel myself ashamed , and completely cir I forget what this here word is , said Sam , scratching his head with the pen , in vain attempts to remember . 
'Why don't you look at it , then ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'So I am a lookin' at it , replied Sam , 'but there's another blot . 
Here's a c , and a i , and a d . 
'Circumwented , p'raps , suggested Mr. Weller . 
'No , it ain't that , said Sam , circumscribed that's it . 
'That ain't as good a word as circumwented , Sammy , said Mr. Weller gravely . 
'Think not ? said Sam . 
'Nothin' like it , replied his father . 
'But don't you think it means more ? inquired Sam . 
'Vell p'raps it's a more tenderer word , said Mr. Weller , after a few moments' reflection . 
Feel myself ashamed and completely circumscribed in a dressin' of you , for you are a nice gal and nothin' but it . 
'That's a wery pretty sentiment , said the elder Mr. Weller , removing his pipe to make way for the remark . 
'Yes , I think it is rayther good , observed Sam , highly flattered . 
Wot's the good o' callin' a young 'ooman a Wenus or a angel , Sammy ? 'Ah ! what , indeed ? replied Sam . 
'Just as well , replied Sam . 
'Drive on , Sammy , said Mr. Weller . 
Sam complied with the request , and proceeded as follows his father continuing to smoke , with a mixed expression of wisdom and complacency , which was particularly edifying . 
Afore I see you , I thought all women was alike . 
'So they are , observed the elder Mr. Weller parenthetically . 
I thought it best to make that rayther strong , said Sam , looking up . 
Mr. Weller nodded approvingly , and Sam resumed . 
'I am afeerd that werges on the poetical , Sammy , said Mr. Weller dubiously . 
'No , it don't , replied Sam , reading on very quickly , to avoid contesting the point Except of me Mary my dear as your walentine and think over what I've said . 
My dear Mary I will now conclude . 
That's all , said Sam . 
'That's rather a Sudden pull up , ain't it , Sammy ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'Not a bit on it , said Sam 'she'll vish there wos more , and that's the great art o' letter writin' . 
'Well , said Mr. Weller , 'there's somethin' in that and I wish your mother in law 'ud only conduct her conwersation on the same gen teel principle . 
Ain't you a goin' to sign it ? 'That's the difficulty , said Sam 'I don't know what to sign it . 
'Sign it Veller , said the oldest surviving proprietor of that name . 
'Won't do , said Sam . 
'Never sign a walentine with your own name . 
'Sign it Pickwick , then , said Mr. Weller 'it's a wery good name , and a easy one to spell . 
'The wery thing , said Sam . 
'I COULD end with a werse what do you think ? 'I don't like it , Sam , rejoined Mr. Weller . 
But Sam was not to be dissuaded from the poetical idea that had occurred to him , so he signed the letter 'Your love sick Pickwick . 
This important business having been transacted , Mr. Weller the elder proceeded to open that , on which he had summoned his son . 
'The first matter relates to your governor , Sammy , said Mr. Weller . 
'He's a goin' to be tried to morrow , ain't he ? 'The trial's a comin' on , replied Sam . 
'Vell , said Mr. Weller , 'Now I s'pose he'll want to call some witnesses to speak to his character , or p'rhaps to prove a alleybi . 
I've been a turnin' the bis'ness over in my mind , and he may make his self easy , Sammy . 
I've got some friends as'll do either for him , but my adwice 'ud be this here never mind the character , and stick to the alleybi . 
Nothing like a alleybi , Sammy , nothing . 
Mr. Weller looked very profound as he delivered this legal opinion and burying his nose in his tumbler , winked over the top thereof , at his astonished son . 
'Verever he's a goin' to be tried , my boy , a alleybi's the thing to get him off . 
Ve got Tom Vildspark off that 'ere manslaughter , with a alleybi , ven all the big vigs to a man said as nothing couldn't save him . 
And my 'pinion is , Sammy , that if your governor don't prove a alleybi , he'll be what the Italians call reg'larly flummoxed , and that's all about it . 
'That's a pint o' domestic policy , Sammy , said Mr. Weller . 
'This here Stiggins 'Red nosed man ? inquired Sam . 
'The wery same , replied Mr. Weller . 
'This here red nosed man , Sammy , wisits your mother in law vith a kindness and constancy I never see equalled . 
He's sitch a friend o' the family , Sammy , that wen he's avay from us , he can't be comfortable unless he has somethin' to remember us by . 
'And I'd give him somethin' as 'ud turpentine and beeswax his memory for the next ten years or so , if I wos you , interposed Sam . 
'And empties it afore he comes back , I s'pose ? said Sam . 
'Clean ! replied Mr. Weller 'never leaves nothin' in it but the cork and the smell trust him for that , Sammy . 
Now , these here fellows , my boy , are a goin' to night to get up the monthly meetin' o' the Brick Lane Branch o' the United Grand Junction Ebenezer Temperance Association . 
Your mother in law wos a goin' , Sammy , but she's got the rheumatics , and can't and I , Sammy I've got the two tickets as wos sent her . 
Mr. Weller communicated this secret with great glee , and winked so indefatigably after doing so , that Sam began to think he must have got the TIC DOLOUREUX in his right eyelid . 
'Well ? said that young gentleman . 
'Well , continued his progenitor , looking round him very cautiously , 'you and I'll go , punctiwal to the time . 
The deputy shepherd won't , Sammy the deputy shepherd won't . 
Here Mr. Weller was seized with a paroxysm of chuckles , which gradually terminated in as near an approach to a choke as an elderly gentleman can , with safety , sustain . 
'What are you a laughin' at , corpilence ? 'Hush ! Sammy , said Mr. Weller , looking round him with increased caution , and speaking in a whisper . 
, he'll be as far gone in rum and water , as ever he wos at the Markis o' Granby , Dorkin' , and that's not sayin' a little neither . 
And with this , Mr. Weller once more laughed immoderately , and once more relapsed into a state of partial suffocation , in consequence . 
'Sammy , whispered Mr. Weller , 'if some o' these here people don't want tappin' to morrow mornin' , I ain't your father , and that's wot it is . 
Why , this here old lady next me is a drowndin' herself in tea . 
'Be quiet , can't you ? murmured Sam . 
'Sam , whispered Mr. Weller , a moment afterwards , in a tone of deep agitation , 'mark my vords , my boy . 
If that 'ere secretary fellow keeps on for only five minutes more , he'll blow hisself up with toast and water . 
'Well , let him , if he likes , replied Sam 'it ain't no bis'ness o' yourn . 
There's a young 'ooman on the next form but two , as has drunk nine breakfast cups and a half and she's a swellin' wisibly before my wery eyes . 
Walker , tailor , wife , and two children . 
Has nothing but cold water to drink , and never feels thirsty . 
'Betsy Martin , widow , one child , and one eye . 
Goes out charing and washing , by the day never had more than one eye , but knows her mother drank bottled stout , and shouldn't wonder if that caused it . 
Thinks it not impossible that if she had always abstained from spirits she might have had two eyes by this time . 
Feels very low and melancholy , is very feverish , and has a constant thirst upon him thinks it must be the wine he used to drink . 
Buys new wooden legs now , and drinks nothing but water and weak tea . 
The new legs last twice as long as the others used to do , and he attributes this solely to his temperate habits . 
Anthony Humm now moved that the assembly do regale itself with a song . 
It was a temperance song . 
Oh , what a state of virtuous jollity ! . 
And what was the young man's reward ? Let all young men present mark this 'The maidens all flocked to his boat so readily . 
What a bright example ! The sisterhood , the maidens , flocking round the young waterman , and urging him along the stream of duty and of temperance . 
But , was it the maidens of humble life only , who soothed , consoled , and supported him ? No ! 'He was always first oars with the fine city ladies . 
The soft sex to a man he begged pardon , to a female rallied round the young waterman , and turned with disgust from the drinker of spirits . 
The Brick Lane Branch brothers were watermen . 
, however unworthily , was 'first oars' . 
'Wot does he mean by the soft sex , Sammy ? inquired Mr. Weller , in a whisper . 
'The womin , said Sam , in the same tone . 
Out came the pocket handkerchiefs again , in greater force than ever for Mr. Stiggins was excessively popular among the female constituency of Brick Lane . 
'He may approach , I think , said Mr. Humm , looking round him , with a fat smile . 
'Brother Tadger , let him come forth and greet us . 
'He's a comin' , Sammy , whispered Mr. Weller , purple in the countenance with suppressed laughter . 
'Don't say nothin' to me , replied Sam , 'for I can't bear it . 
He's close to the door . 
I hear him a knockin' his head again the lath and plaster now . 
'Are you unwell , Brother Stiggins ? whispered Mr. Anthony Humm . 
'I am all right , Sir , replied Mr. Stiggins , in a tone in which ferocity was blended with an extreme thickness of utterance 'I am all right , Sir . 
'Oh , very well , rejoined Mr. Anthony Humm , retreating a few paces . 
'I believe no man here has ventured to say that I am not all right , Sir ? said Mr. Stiggins . 
'Oh , certainly not , said Mr. Humm . 
'I should advise him not to , Sir I should advise him not , said Mr. Stiggins . 
By this time the audience were perfectly silent , and waited with some anxiety for the resumption of business . 
'Will you address the meeting , brother ? said Mr. Humm , with a smile of invitation . 
'No , sir , rejoined Mr. Stiggins 'No , sir . 
I will not , sir . 
The meeting looked at each other with raised eyelids and a murmur of astonishment ran through the room . 
'It's my opinion , sir , said Mr. Stiggins , unbuttoning his coat , and speaking very loudly 'it's my opinion , sir , that this meeting is drunk , sir . 
Brother Tadger had been knocked , head first , down the ladder . 
Upon this , the women set up a loud and dismal screaming and rushing in small parties before their favourite brothers , flung their arms around them to preserve them from danger . 
The greater part of the lights were quickly put out , and nothing but noise and confusion resounded on all sides . 
'Now , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , taking off his greatcoat with much deliberation , 'just you step out , and fetch in a watchman . 
'And wot are you a goin' to do , the while ? inquired Sam . 
'Never you mind me , Sammy , replied the old gentleman 'I shall ockipy myself in havin' a small settlement with that 'ere Stiggins . 
Before Sam could interfere to prevent it , his heroic parent had penetrated into a remote corner of the room , and attacked the Reverend Mr. Stiggins with manual dexterity . 
'Come off ! said Sam . 
'Ah ! said Perker , 'I hope he's got a good one . 
'Why so ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Highly important very important , my dear Sir , replied Perker . 
'A good , contented , well breakfasted juryman is a capital thing to get hold of . 
Discontented or hungry jurymen , my dear sir , always find for the plaintiff . 
So do I , says everybody else , except two men who ought to have dined at three and seem more than half disposed to stand out in consequence . 
Upon this , two or three other men are sure to say that they think so too as of course they do and then they get on very unanimously and comfortably . 
Ten minutes past nine ! said the little man , looking at his watch . 
'Time we were off , my dear sir breach of promise trial court is generally full in such cases . 
You had better ring for a coach , my dear sir , or we shall be rather late . 
'Lowten , said Perker , when they reached the outer hall of the court , 'put Mr. Pickwick's friends in the students' box Mr. Pickwick himself had better sit by me . 
This way , my dear sir , this way . 
Of course they have their backs to both , and their faces towards the judge . 
'That's the witness box , I suppose ? said Mr. Pickwick , pointing to a kind of pulpit , with a brass rail , on his left hand . 
'That's the witness box , my dear sir , replied Perker , disinterring a quantity of papers from the blue bag , which Lowten had just deposited at his feet . 
Mr. Pickwick stood up in a state of great agitation , and took a glance at the court . 
'Who's that red faced man , who said it was a fine morning , and nodded to our counsel ? whispered Mr. Pickwick . 
Serjeant Buzfuz , replied Perker . 
'He's opposed to us he leads on the other side . 
That gentleman behind him is Mr. Skimpin , his junior . 
Looking round , he found that this was caused by the entrance of the judge . 
was a most particularly short man , and so fat , that he seemed all face and waistcoat . 
'Answer to your names , gentlemen , that you may be sworn , said the gentleman in black . 
'Here , said the greengrocer . 
'Here , said the chemist . 
'Take the book , gentlemen . 
'On what grounds , Sir ? said Mr. Justice Stareleigh . 
'I have no assistant , my Lord , said the chemist . 
'I can't help that , Sir , replied Mr. Justice Stareleigh . 
'I can't afford it , my Lord , rejoined the chemist . 
'Then you ought to be able to afford it , Sir , said the judge , reddening for Mr. Justice Stareleigh's temper bordered on the irritable , and brooked not contradiction . 
'I know I OUGHT to do , if I got on as well as I deserved but I don't , my Lord , answered the chemist . 
'Swear the gentleman , said the judge peremptorily . 
The officer had got no further than the 'You shall well and truly try , when he was again interrupted by the chemist . 
'I am to be sworn , my Lord , am I ? said the chemist . 
'Certainly , sir , replied the testy little judge . 
'Very well , my Lord , replied the chemist , in a resigned manner . 
'Then there'll be murder before this trial's over that's all . 
Swear me , if you please , Sir and sworn the chemist was , before the judge could find words to utter . 
'I merely wanted to observe , my Lord , said the chemist , taking his seat with great deliberation , 'that I've left nobody but an errand boy in my shop . 
That's all , my Lord . 
With this , the tall chemist composed himself into a comfortable attitude , and , assuming a pleasant expression of countenance , appeared to have prepared himself for the worst . 
Mrs. Sanders then appeared , leading in Master Bardell . 
In reply to this , Mrs. Cluppins and Mrs. Sanders turned their heads away and wept , while Messrs . 
Dodson and Fogg entreated the plaintiff to compose herself . 
'Very good notion that indeed , whispered Perker to Mr. Pickwick . 
'Capital fellows those Dodson and Fogg excellent ideas of effect , my dear Sir , excellent . 
'Bardell and Pickwick , cried the gentleman in black , calling on the case , which stood first on the list . 
'I am for the plaintiff , my Lord , said Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz . 
'Who is with you , Brother Buzfuz ? said the judge . 
Mr. Skimpin bowed , to intimate that he was . 
'I appear for the defendant , my Lord , said Mr. Serjeant Snubbin . 
'Anybody with you , Brother Snubbin ? inquired the court . 
Phunky , my Lord , replied Serjeant Snubbin . 
'Beg your Lordship's pardon , Phunky . 
'Oh , very good , said the judge 'I never had the pleasure of hearing the gentleman's name before . 
'Go on , said the judge . 
Counsel usually begin in this way , because it puts the jury on the very best terms with themselves , and makes them think what sharp fellows they must be . 
A visible effect was produced immediately , several jurymen beginning to take voluminous notes with the utmost eagerness . 
Those facts and circumstances , gentlemen , you shall hear detailed by me , and proved by the unimpeachable female whom I will place in that box before you . 
'The plaintiff , gentlemen , continued Serjeant Buzfuz , in a soft and melancholy voice , 'the plaintiff is a widow yes , gentlemen , a widow . 
Here Serjeant Buzfuz paused , while several gentlemen of the jury took a note of the document . 
'There is no date to that , is there ? inquired a juror . 
'There is no date , gentlemen , replied Serjeant Buzfuz 'but I am instructed to say that it was put in the plaintiff's parlour window just this time three years . 
She had no fear , she had no distrust , she had no suspicion all was confidence and reliance . 
, the lonely and desolate widow dried her tears , furnished her first floor , caught her innocent boy to her maternal bosom , and put the bill up in her parlour window . 
Did it remain there long ? No. The serpent was on the watch , the train was laid , the mine was preparing , the sapper and miner was at work . 
He inquired within he took the lodgings and on the very next day he entered into possession of them . 
This man was Pickwick Pickwick , the defendant . 
Serjeant Buzfuz , who had proceeded with such volubility that his face was perfectly crimson , here paused for breath . 
This little divergence from the subject in hand , had , of course , the intended effect of turning all eyes to Mr. Pickwick . 
A visible impression was produced upon the auditors by this part of the learned Serjeant's address . 
Drawing forth two very small scraps of paper , he proceeded 'And now , gentlemen , but one word more . 
Two letters have passed between these parties , letters which are admitted to be in the handwriting of the defendant , and which speak volumes , indeed . 
The letters , too , bespeak the character of the man . 
They are not open , fervent , eloquent epistles , breathing nothing but the language of affectionate attachment . 
Let me read the first Garraways , twelve o'clock . 
Dear Mrs. B. Chops and tomato sauce . 
Gentlemen , what does this mean ? Chops and tomato sauce . 
Dear Mrs. B. , I shall not be at home till to morrow . 
And then follows this very remarkable expression . 
Don't trouble yourself about the warming pan . 
'But enough of this , gentlemen , said Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz , 'it is difficult to smile with an aching heart it is ill jesting when our deepest sympathies are awakened . 
My client's hopes and prospects are ruined , and it is no figure of speech to say that her occupation is gone indeed . 
The bill is down but there is no tenant . 
Eligible single gentlemen pass and repass but there is no invitation for to inquire within or without . 
Damages , gentlemen heavy damages is the only punishment with which you can visit him the only recompense you can award to my client . 
With this beautiful peroration , Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz sat down , and Mr. Justice Stareleigh woke up . 
'Call Elizabeth Cluppins , said Serjeant Buzfuz , rising a minute afterwards , with renewed vigour . 
Cluppins , said Serjeant Buzfuz , 'pray compose yourself , ma'am . 
Pickwick's sitting room was the first floor front , I believe ? 'Yes , it were , Sir , replied Mrs. Cluppins . 
'What were you doing in the back room , ma'am ? inquired the little judge . 
'My Lord and jury , said Mrs. Cluppins , with interesting agitation , 'I will not deceive you . 
'You had better not , ma'am , said the little judge . 
'On the what ? exclaimed the little judge . 
'Partly open , my Lord , said Serjeant Snubbin . 
'She said on the jar , said the little judge , with a cunning look . 
'It's all the same , my Lord , said Serjeant Snubbin . 
The little judge looked doubtful , and said he'd make a note of it . 
Mrs. Cluppins then resumed 'I walked in , gentlemen , just to say good mornin' , and went , in a permiscuous manner , upstairs , and into the back room . 
Gentlemen , there was the sound of voices in the front room , and 'And you listened , I believe , Mrs. Cluppins ? said Serjeant Buzfuz . 
'Beggin' your pardon , Sir , replied Mrs. Cluppins , in a majestic manner , 'I would scorn the haction . 
The voices was very loud , Sir , and forced themselves upon my ear , 'Well , Mrs. Cluppins , you were not listening , but you heard the voices . 
Was one of those voices Pickwick's ? 'Yes , it were , Sir . 
The jury looked suspicious , and Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz smiled as he sat down . 
'Nathaniel Winkle ! said Mr. Skimpin . 
'Here ! replied a feeble voice . 
Mr. Winkle entered the witness box , and having been duly sworn , bowed to the judge with considerable deference . 
'Don't look at me , Sir , said the judge sharply , in acknowledgment of the salute 'look at the jury . 
'Winkle , replied the witness . 
'What's your Christian name , Sir ? angrily inquired the little judge . 
'Daniel any other name ? 'Nathaniel , sir my Lord , I mean . 
'Nathaniel Daniel , or Daniel Nathaniel ? 'No , my Lord , only Nathaniel not Daniel at all . 
'What did you tell me it was Daniel for , then , sir ? inquired the judge . 
'I didn't , my Lord , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'You did , Sir , replied the judge , with a severe frown . 
'How could I have got Daniel on my notes , unless you told me so , Sir ? This argument was , of course , unanswerable . 
Winkle has rather a short memory , my Lord , interposed Mr. Skimpin , with another glance at the jury . 
'We shall find means to refresh it before we have quite done with him , I dare say . 
'You had better be careful , Sir , said the little judge , with a sinister look at the witness . 
Poor Mr. Winkle bowed , and endeavoured to feign an easiness of manner , which , in his then state of confusion , gave him rather the air of a disconcerted pickpocket . 
'Come , Sir , said Mr. Skimpin , 'yes or no , if you please . 
'Yes , I am , replied Mr. Winkle . 
And why couldn't you say that at once , Sir ? Perhaps you know the plaintiff too ? Eh , Mr. Winkle ? 'I don't know her I've seen her . 
'Oh , you don't know her , but you've seen her ? Now , have the goodness to tell the gentlemen of the jury what you mean by that , Mr. Winkle . 
'I mean that I am not intimate with her , but I have seen her when I went to call on Mr. Pickwick , in Goswell Street . 
And the learned gentleman , with a firm and steady frown , placed his hands on his hips , and smiled suspiciously to the jury . 
On this question there arose the edifying brow beating , customary on such points . 
First of all , Mr. Winkle said it was quite impossible for him to say how many times he had seen Mrs. Bardell . 
Then he was asked if he had seen her twenty times , to which he replied , 'Certainly more than that . 
'Were you accompanied on that occasion by a friend of the name of Tupman , and another by the name of Snodgrass ? 'Yes , I was . 
'Are they here ? 'Yes , they are , replied Mr. Winkle , looking very earnestly towards the spot where his friends were stationed . 
'Pray attend to me , Mr. Winkle , and never mind your friends , said Mr. Skimpin , with another expressive look at the jury . 
'They must tell their stories without any previous consultation with you , if none has yet taken place . 
Now , Sir , tell the gentlemen of the jury what you saw on entering the defendant's room , on this particular morning . 
Come out with it , Sir we must have it , sooner or later . 
'Now , Mr. Winkle , I have only one more question to ask you , and I beg you to bear in mind his Lordship's caution . 
Mr. Pickwick's case had not gone off in so particularly happy a manner , up to this point , that it could very well afford to have any additional suspicion cast upon it . 
Whether he did get anything important out of him , will immediately appear . 
'I believe , Mr. Winkle , said Mr. Phunky , 'that Mr. Pickwick is not a young man ? 'Oh , no , replied Mr. Winkle 'old enough to be my father . 
'You have told my learned friend that you have known Mr. Pickwick a long time . 
Lawyers hold that there are two kinds of particularly bad witnesses a reluctant witness , and a too willing witness it was Mr. Winkle's fate to figure in both characters . 
'I will even go further than this , Mr. Winkle , continued Mr. Phunky , in a most smooth and complacent manner . 
'That is yes oh , yes certainly . 
'N n no , replied Mr. Winkle , 'except on one trifling occasion , which , I have no doubt , might be easily explained . 
, this unfortunate admission would not have been elicited . 
'Describe the occasion to which you refer . 
'My Lord , said Mr. Winkle , trembling with anxiety , 'I I'd rather not . 
'Perhaps so , said the little judge 'but you must . 
, magistrate and justice of the peace , for the borough of Ipswich ! 'You may leave the box , Sir , said Serjeant Snubbin . 
Tracy Tupman , and Augustus Snodgrass , were severally called into the box both corroborated the testimony of their unhappy friend and each was driven to the verge of desperation by excessive badgering . 
Susannah Sanders was then called , and examined by Serjeant Buzfuz , and cross examined by Serjeant Snubbin . 
Had heard Pickwick ask the little boy how he should like to have another father . 
Did not know that Mrs. Bardell was at that time keeping company with the baker , but did know that the baker was then a single man and is now married . 
fainted away stone dead when Mr. Sanders asked her to name the day , and believed that everybody as called herself a lady would do the same , under similar circumstances . 
Heard Pickwick ask the boy the question about the marbles , but upon her oath did not know the difference between an 'alley tor' and a 'commoney . 
During the period of her keeping company with Mr. Sanders , had received love letters , like other ladies . 
In the course of their correspondence Mr. Sanders had often called her a 'duck , but never 'chops , nor yet 'tomato sauce . 
He was particularly fond of ducks . 
Perhaps if he had been as fond of chops and tomato sauce , he might have called her that , as a term of affection . 
Serjeant Buzfuz now rose with more importance than he had yet exhibited , if that were possible , and vociferated 'Call Samuel Weller . 
'What's your name , sir ? inquired the judge . 
'Sam Weller , my Lord , replied that gentleman . 
'Do you spell it with a V or a W ? inquired the judge . 
Put it down a we , my Lord , put it down a we . 
'Who is that , who dares address the court ? said the little judge , looking up . 
'Bring that person here instantly . 
'Do you see him here now ? said the judge . 
'No , I don't , my Lord , replied Sam , staring right up into the lantern at the roof of the court . 
'If you could have pointed him out , I would have committed him instantly , said the judge . 
Sam bowed his acknowledgments and turned , with unimpaired cheerfulness of countenance , towards Serjeant Buzfuz . 
'Now , Mr. Weller , said Serjeant Buzfuz . 
'Now , sir , replied Sam . 
'I believe you are in the service of Mr. Pickwick , the defendant in this case ? Speak up , if you please , Mr. Weller . 
'I mean to speak up , Sir , replied Sam 'I am in the service o' that 'ere gen'l'man , and a wery good service it is . 
'Little to do , and plenty to get , I suppose ? said Serjeant Buzfuz , with jocularity . 
'Oh , quite enough to get , Sir , as the soldier said ven they ordered him three hundred and fifty lashes , replied Sam . 
'You must not tell us what the soldier , or any other man , said , Sir , interposed the judge 'it's not evidence . 
'Wery good , my Lord , replied Sam . 
'Do you recollect anything particular happening on the morning when you were first engaged by the defendant eh , Mr. Weller ? said Serjeant Buzfuz . 
'Yes , I do , sir , replied Sam . 
'Have the goodness to tell the jury what it was . 
Hereupon there was a general laugh and the little judge , looking with an angry countenance over his desk , said , 'You had better be careful , Sir . 
'So Mr. Pickwick said at the time , my Lord , replied Sam 'and I was wery careful o' that 'ere suit o' clothes wery careful indeed , my Lord . 
The judge looked sternly at Sam for full two minutes , but Sam's features were so perfectly calm and serene that the judge said nothing , and motioned Serjeant Buzfuz to proceed . 
'You were in the passage , and yet saw nothing of what was going forward . 
Have you a pair of eyes , Mr. Weller ? 'Yes , I have a pair of eyes , replied Sam , 'and that's just it . 
'If you please , Sir , rejoined Sam , with the utmost good humour . 
'Do you remember going up to Mrs. Bardell's house , one night in November last ? 'Oh , yes , wery well . 
'Oh , you do remember that , Mr. Weller , said Serjeant Buzfuz , recovering his spirits 'I thought we should get at something at last . 
'I rayther thought that , too , sir , replied Sam and at this the spectators tittered again . 
'Well I suppose you went up to have a little talk about this trial eh , Mr. Weller ? said Serjeant Buzfuz , looking knowingly at the jury . 
'I went up to pay the rent but we did get a talkin' about the trial , replied Sam . 
'Oh , you did get a talking about the trial , said Serjeant Buzfuz , brightening up with the anticipation of some important discovery . 
'Now , what passed about the trial will you have the goodness to tell us , Mr. Weller' ? 'Vith all the pleasure in life , sir , replied Sam . 
This , of course , drew general attention to Dodson Fogg , who looked as virtuous as possible . 
'The attorneys for the plaintiff , said Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz . 
'Well ! They spoke in high praise of the honourable conduct of Messrs . 
'You are quite right , said Serjeant Buzfuz aloud , with affected composure . 
'It's perfectly useless , my Lord , attempting to get at any evidence through the impenetrable stupidity of this witness . 
I will not trouble the court by asking him any more questions . 
'Would any other gen'l'man like to ask me anythin' ? inquired Sam , taking up his hat , and looking round most deliberately . 
'Not I , Mr. Weller , thank you , said Serjeant Snubbin , laughing . 
'You may go down , sir , said Serjeant Buzfuz , waving his hand impatiently . 
Sam went down accordingly , after doing Messrs . 
'Very well , said Serjeant Buzfuz , putting in the two letters to be read , 'then that's my case , my Lord . 
Mr. Justice Stareleigh summed up , in the old established and most approved form . 
He read as much of his notes to the jury as he could decipher on so short a notice , and made running comments on the evidence as he went along . 
An anxious quarter of a hour elapsed the jury came back the judge was fetched in . 
Mr. Pickwick put on his spectacles , and gazed at the foreman with an agitated countenance and a quickly beating heart . 
'Gentlemen , said the individual in black , 'are you all agreed upon your verdict ? 'We are , replied the foreman . 
'Do you find for the plaintiff , gentlemen , or for the defendant ? 'For the plaintiff . 
'With what damages , gentlemen ? 'Seven hundred and fifty pounds . 
They stopped in a side room while Perker paid the court fees and here , Mr. Pickwick was joined by his friends . 
Here , too , he encountered Messrs . 
Dodson Fogg , rubbing their hands with every token of outward satisfaction . 
'Well , gentlemen , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well , Sir , said Dodson , for self and partner . 
'You imagine you'll get your costs , don't you , gentlemen ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
Fogg said they thought it rather probable . 
Dodson smiled , and said they'd try . 
'You may try , and try , and try again , Messrs . 
'Ha ! ha ! laughed Dodson . 
'You'll think better of that , before next term , Mr. Pickwick . 
'He , he , he ! We'll soon see about that , Mr. Pickwick , grinned Fogg . 
'Hooroar for the principle , as the money lender said ven he vouldn't renew the bill , observed Mr. Weller , who was clearing away the breakfast things . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'have the goodness to step downstairs . 
'Cert'nly , sir , replied Mr. Weller and acting on Mr. Pickwick's gentle hint , Sam retired . 
'No , Perker , said Mr. Pickwick , with great seriousness of manner , 'my friends here have endeavoured to dissuade me from this determination , but without avail . 
'Very good , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Until that time , my dear fellow , let me hear no more of the matter . 
Mr. Winkle had not yet sufficiently recovered the recollection of his evidence at the trial , to make any observation on any subject , so Mr. Pickwick paused in vain . 
'Well , said that gentleman , 'if you leave me to suggest our destination , I say Bath . 
I think none of us have ever been there . 
The next was a very unpropitious morning for a journey muggy , damp , and drizzly . 
The horses in the stages that were going out , and had come through the city , were smoking so , that the outside passengers were invisible . 
The Jews with the fifty bladed penknives shut them up in despair the men with the pocket books made pocket books of them . 
Watch guards and toasting forks were alike at a discount , and pencil cases and sponges were a drug in the market . 
The travellers' room at the White Horse Cellar is of course uncomfortable it would be no travellers' room if it were not . 
It is the right hand parlour , into which an aspiring kitchen fireplace appears to have walked , accompanied by a rebellious poker , tongs , and shovel . 
He was buttoned up to the chin in a brown coat and had a large sealskin travelling cap , and a greatcoat and cloak , lying on the seat beside him . 
'Waiter , said the gentleman with the whiskers . 
'Sir ? replied a man with a dirty complexion , and a towel of the same , emerging from the kennel before mentioned . 
'Buttered toast , mind , said the gentleman fiercely . 
'Directly , sir , replied the waiter . 
'I wonder whereabouts in Bath this coach puts up , said Mr. Pickwick , mildly addressing Mr. Winkle . 
'Hum eh what's that ? said the strange man . 
'I made an observation to my friend , sir , replied Mr. Pickwick , always ready to enter into conversation . 
'I wondered at what house the Bath coach put up . 
Perhaps you can inform me . 
'Are you going to Bath ? said the strange man . 
'I am , sir , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'And those other gentlemen ? 'They are going also , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Not inside I'll be damned if you're going inside , said the strange man . 
'Not all of us , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , not all of you , said the strange man emphatically . 
If they try to squeeze six people into an infernal box that only holds four , I'll take a post chaise and bring an action . 
It won't do I told the clerk when I took my places that it wouldn't do . 
I know these things have been done . 
I know they are done every day but I never was done , and I never will be . 
'My good sir , said Mr. Pickwick , 'you will allow me to observe that this is a very unnecessary display of excitement . 
I have only taken places inside for two . 
'I am glad to hear it , said the fierce man . 
'With great pleasure , Sir , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'We are to be fellow travellers , and I hope we shall find each other's society mutually agreeable . 
'I hope we shall , said the fierce gentleman . 
I like your looks they please me . 
Gentlemen , your hands and names . 
'She's a fine woman , said Mr. Dowler . 
'I am proud of her . 
'I hope I shall have the pleasure of judging , said Mr. Pickwick , with a smile . 
'You shall , replied Dowler . 
I courted her under singular circumstances . 
I won her through a rash vow . 
I saw her I loved her I proposed she refused me . 
You love another ? Spare my blushes . 
Very good if he remains here , I'll skin him . 
'Lord bless me ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick involuntarily . 
'Did you skin the gentleman , Sir ? inquired Mr. Winkle , with a very pale face . 
'I wrote him a note , I said it was a painful thing . 
'Certainly , interposed Mr. Winkle . 
'I said I had pledged my word as a gentleman to skin him . 
My character was at stake . 
As an officer in His Majesty's service , I was bound to skin him . 
I regretted the necessity , but it must be done . 
He was open to conviction . 
He saw that the rules of the service were imperative . 
Mr. Dowler paid his bill , and hurried out with his travelling cap , coat , and cloak and Mr. Pickwick and his friends followed to secure their places . 
'Well , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'what's the matter now ? 'Here's rayther a rum go , sir , replied Sam . 
'What ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'This here , Sir , rejoined Sam . 
'I'm wery much afeerd , sir , that the properiator o' this here coach is a playin' some imperence vith us . 
'It's odd enough , certainly , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick 'but if we stand talking here , we shall lose our places . 
'Wot , ain't nothin' to be done in consequence , sir ? exclaimed Sam , perfectly aghast at the coolness with which Mr. Pickwick prepared to ensconce himself inside . 
'Done ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Certainly not , replied Mr. Pickwick eagerly 'not on any account . 
Jump up to your seat directly . 
'I am wery much afeered , muttered Sam to himself , as he turned away , 'that somethin' queer's come over the governor , or he'd never ha' stood this so quiet . 
I hope that 'ere trial hasn't broke his spirit , but it looks bad , wery bad . 
Which was so long a time for him to remain taciturn , that the fact may be considered wholly unprecedented . 
Nothing worthy of special mention occurred during the journey . 
Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Winkle listened with great admiration , and at intervals conversed with Mrs. Dowler , who was a very agreeable and fascinating person . 
The outsides did as outsides always do . 
They were very cheerful and talkative at the beginning of every stage , and very dismal and sleepy in the middle , and very bright and wakeful again towards the end . 
There was a third young man on the box who wished to be learned in cattle and an old one behind , who was familiar with farming . 
And at seven o'clock P. m . 
Breakfast had scarcely been cleared away on the succeeding morning , when a waiter brought in Mr. Dowler's card , with a request to be allowed permission to introduce a friend . 
Mr. Dowler at once followed up the delivery of the card , by bringing himself and the friend also . 
He had a gold watch , and a gold curb chain with large gold seals and he carried a pliant ebony cane with a gold top . 
His linen was of the very whitest , finest , and stiffest his wig of the glossiest , blackest , and curliest . 
His snuff was princes' mixture his scent BOUQUET DU ROI . 
His features were contracted into a perpetual smile and his teeth were in such perfect order that it was difficult at a small distance to tell the real from the false . 
Pickwick , said Mr. Dowler 'my friend , Angelo Cyrus Bantam , Esquire , M. C. Bantam Mr. Pickwick . 
'Welcome to Ba ath , Sir . 
This is indeed an acquisition . 
Most welcome to Ba ath , sir . 
It is long very long , Mr. Pickwick , since you drank the waters . 
It appears an age , Mr. Pickwick . 
'It is a very long time since I drank the waters , certainly , replied Mr. Pickwick 'for , to the best of my knowledge , I was never here before . 
'Never in Ba ath , Mr. Pickwick ! exclaimed the Grand Master , letting the hand fall in astonishment . 
'Never in Ba ath ! He ! he ! Mr. Pickwick , you are a wag . 
Not bad , not bad . 
He ! he ! he ! Re markable ! 'To my shame , I must say that I am perfectly serious , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
'I really never was here before . 
'Oh , I see , exclaimed the Grand Master , looking extremely pleased 'yes , yes good , good better and better . 
You are the gentleman of whom we have heard . 
Yes we know you , Mr. Pickwick we know you . 
'The reports of the trial in those confounded papers , thought Mr. Pickwick . 
'They have heard all about me . 
An introduction which overwhelmed the M. C. with delight and honour . 
'Bantam , said Mr. Dowler , 'Mr . 
Pickwick and his friends are strangers . 
They must put their names down . 
'This is a long call . 
I shall be here again in an hour . 
'This is a ball night , said the M. C. , again taking Mr. Pickwick's hand , as he rose to go . 
'Why , young man ? was the haughty inquiry of the powdered headed footman . 
''Cos if it is , jist you step in to him with that 'ere card , and say Mr. Veller's a waitin' , will you ? said Sam . 
And saying it , he very coolly walked into the hall , and sat down . 
'Wery good , said Sam . 
'Tell the old gen'l'm'n not to put himself in a perspiration . 
No hurry , six foot . 
'You dine early , sir , said the powdered headed footman . 
'I find I gets on better at supper when I does , replied Sam . 
'Have you been long in Bath , sir ? inquired the powdered headed footman . 
'I have not had the pleasure of hearing of you before . 
'I haven't created any wery surprisin' sensation here , as yet , rejoined Sam , 'for me and the other fash'nables only come last night . 
'Nice place , Sir , said the powdered headed footman . 
'Seems so , observed Sam . 
'Pleasant society , sir , remarked the powdered headed footman . 
'Very agreeable servants , sir . 
'I should think they wos , replied Sam . 
'Affable , unaffected , say nothin' to nobody sorts o' fellers . 
'Oh , very much so , indeed , sir , said the powdered headed footman , taking Sam's remarks as a high compliment . 
Do you do anything in this way , Sir ? inquired the tall footman , producing a small snuff box with a fox's head on the top of it . 
'Not without sneezing , replied Sam . 
'Why , it IS difficult , sir , I confess , said the tall footman . 
'It may be done by degrees , Sir . 
Coffee is the best practice . 
I carried coffee , Sir , for a long time . 
It looks very like rappee , sir . 
'I'm afraid you'll find it inconveniently large . 
'Don't mention it , said Sam , taking a letter with a small enclosure . 
'It's just possible as exhausted natur' may manage to surwive it . 
'I hope we shall meet again , Sir , said the powdered headed footman , rubbing his hands , and following Sam out to the door step . 
'You are wery obligin' , sir , replied Sam . 
'Now , don't allow yourself to be fatigued beyond your powers there's a amiable bein' . 
Consider what you owe to society , and don't let yourself be injured by too much work . 
For the sake o' your feller creeturs , keep yourself as quiet as you can only think what a loss you would be ! With these pathetic words , Sam Weller departed . 
'A very singular young man that , said the powdered headed footman , looking after Mr. Weller , with a countenance which clearly showed he could make nothing of him . 
Sam said nothing at all . 
At precisely twenty minutes before eight o'clock that night , Angelo Cyrus Bantam , Esq . 
Thus attired , the Master of the Ceremonies , in strict discharge of the important duties of his all important office , planted himself in the room to receive the company . 
Bath being full , the company , and the sixpences for tea , poured in , in shoals . 
Dresses rustled , feathers waved , lights shone , and jewels sparkled . 
In short , they could abuse everybody , because everybody was there . 
'Stop in the tea room . 
Then lay on hot water , and call it tea . 
Drink it , said Mr. Dowler , in a loud voice , directing Mr. Pickwick , who advanced at the head of the little party , with Mrs. Dowler on his arm . 
Into the tea room Mr. Pickwick turned and catching sight of him , Mr. Bantam corkscrewed his way through the crowd and welcomed him with ecstasy . 
'My dear Sir , I am highly honoured . 
Mrs. Dowler , you embellish the rooms . 
I congratulate you on your feathers . 
Re markable ! 'Anybody here ? inquired Dowler suspiciously . 
'Anybody ! The ELITE of Ba ath . 
Mr. Pickwick , do you see the old lady in the gauze turban ? 'The fat old lady ? inquired Mr. Pickwick innocently . 
'Hush , my dear sir nobody's fat or old in Ba ath . 
That's the Dowager Lady Snuphanuph . 
'Is it , indeed ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'No less a person , I assure you , said the Master of the Ceremonies . 
Draw a little nearer , Mr. Pickwick . 
You see the splendidly dressed young man coming this way ? 'The one with the long hair , and the particularly small forehead ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
The richest young man in Ba ath at this moment . 
'You don't say so ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
You'll hear his voice in a moment , Mr. Pickwick . 
The other gentleman with him , in the red under waistcoat and dark moustache , is the Honourable Mr. Crushton , his bosom friend . 
How do you do , my Lord ? 'Veway hot , Bantam , said his Lordship . 
'It IS very warm , my Lord , replied the M. C. 'Confounded , assented the Honourable Mr. Crushton . 
'Dear me , no , replied the M. C. 'A mail cart ! What an excellent idea . 
Re markable ! 'Gwacious heavens ! said his Lordship , 'I thought evewebody had seen the new mail cart it's the neatest , pwettiest , gwacefullest thing that ever wan upon wheels . 
Painted wed , with a cweam piebald . 
'With a real box for the letters , and all complete , said the Honourable Mr. Crushton . 
'And a little seat in fwont , with an iwon wail , for the dwiver , added his Lordship . 
Glorwious glorwious ! At this anecdote his Lordship laughed very heartily , as did the listeners , of course . 
Then , drawing his arm through that of the obsequious Mr. Crushton , Lord Mutanhed walked away . 
'Delightful young man , his Lordship , said the Master of the Ceremonies . 
'So I should think , rejoined Mr. Pickwick drily . 
The dancing having commenced , the necessary introductions having been made , and all preliminaries arranged , Angelo Bantam rejoined Mr. Pickwick , and led him into the card room . 
'My dear Bantam , said the Dowager Lady Snuphanuph coaxingly , 'find us some nice creature to make up this table there's a good soul . 
Mr. Pickwick happened to be looking another way at the moment , so her Ladyship nodded her head towards him , and frowned expressively . 
'My friend Mr. Pickwick , my Lady , will be most happy , I am sure , remarkably so , said the M. C. , taking the hint . 
Pickwick , Lady Snuphanuph Mrs. Colonel Wugsby Miss Bolo . 
Mr. Pickwick bowed to each of the ladies , and , finding escape impossible , cut . 
Mr. Pickwick and Miss Bolo against Lady Snuphanuph and Mrs. Colonel Wugsby . 
'Good God , Jane , how can you think of such things ? replied the mamma indignantly . 
'Haven't you repeatedly heard that his father has eight hundred a year , which dies with him ? I am ashamed of you . 
'Ma , whispered the other , who was much older than her sister , and very insipid and artificial , 'Lord Mutanhed has been introduced to me . 
I said I thought I wasn't engaged , ma . 
'You're a sweet pet , my love , replied Mrs. Colonel Wugsby , tapping her daughter's cheek with her fan , 'and are always to be trusted . 
He's immensely rich , my dear . 
Bless you ! With these words Mrs. Colonel Wugsby kissed her eldest daughter most affectionately , and frowning in a warning manner upon the other , sorted her cards . 
Poor Mr. Pickwick ! he had never played with three thorough paced female card players before . 
They were so desperately sharp , that they quite frightened him . 
People came and looked on , too , which made Mr. Pickwick nervous . 
This proposition was at once accepted , and in three days' time they were all located in their new abode , when Mr. Pickwick began to drink the waters with the utmost assiduity . 
Mr. Pickwick took them systematically . 
There are baths near at hand , in which a part of the company wash themselves and a band plays afterwards , to congratulate the remainder on their having done so . 
There is an immensity of promenading , on crutches and off , with sticks and without , and a great deal of conversation , and liveliness , and pleasantry . 
Every morning , the regular water drinkers , Mr. Pickwick among the number , met each other in the pump room , took their quarter of a pint , and walked constitutionally . 
After this , they walked out , or drove out , or were pushed out in bath chairs , and met one another again . 
After this , the gentlemen went to the reading rooms , and met divisions of the mass . 
After this , they went home . 
A very pleasant routine , with perhaps a slight tinge of sameness . 
'Beg your pardon , Sir , said Mrs. Craddock , the landlady , peeping in 'but did you want anything more , sir ? 'Nothing more , ma'am , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'By all means , ma'am , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Wish you good night , Sir , said Mrs. Craddock . 
'Good night , ma'am , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
Mrs. Craddock closed the door , and Mr. Pickwick resumed his writing . 
In half an hour's time the entries were concluded . 
That inscription is now erased . 
The young prince sighed deeply as he looked upon the countenance of the majestic swine he thought of his royal father , and his eyes were bedewed with tears . 
'This sagacious pig was fond of bathing in rich , moist mud . 
, but in the cold , sharp days of winter . 
His coat was ever so sleek , and his complexion so clear , that the prince resolved to essay the purifying qualities of the same water that his friend resorted to . 
Beneath that black mud , bubbled the hot springs of Bath . 
He washed , and was cured . 
Hastening to his father's court , he paid his best respects , and returning quickly hither , founded this city and its famous baths . 
'He sought the pig with all the ardour of their early friendship but , alas ! the waters had been his death . 
Listen to the true one . 
'A great many centuries since , there flourished , in great state , the famous and renowned Lud Hudibras , king of Britain . 
He was a mighty monarch . 
The earth shook when he walked he was so very stout . 
His people basked in the light of his countenance it was so red and glowing . 
He was , indeed , every inch a king . 
If any degenerate monarch of modern times could be in any way compared with him , I should say the venerable King Cole would be that illustrious potentate . 
'This good king had a queen , who eighteen years before , had had a son , who was called Bladud . 
'This answer no sooner reached Britain , than the whole nation was transported with joy . 
Which is an obvious injustice to the memory of King Lud , and a dishonest exaltation of the virtues of King Cole . 
This was no other than Prince Bladud himself , in honour of whose happiness a whole people were , at that very moment , straining alike their throats and purse strings . 
'Here we have a striking example of one of the manifold advantages of civilisation and refinement . 
But neither mode of relief suggested itself to Prince Bladud so he solicited a private audience , and told his father . 
'it is an old prerogative of kings to govern everything but their passions . 
should be considered privy to his flight , and punished accordingly by the infuriated king . 
'The monarch was frantic at the loss of his son . 
God save the king ! 'The prince remained to hear no more . 
He fled from the spot , and plunged into the thickest recesses of a neighbouring wood . 
So heedless was he of time or object , that being bound for Athens , he wandered as far out of his way as Bath . 
'There was no city where Bath stands , then . 
Moved by the gentle beauty of the scene , the prince sank upon the green turf , and bathed his swollen feet in his tears . 
It was in the time of the heathen deities , who used occasionally to take people at their words , with a promptness , in some cases , extremely awkward . 
This is most complimentary to the virtue of Prince Bladud's tears , and strongly corroborative of the veracity of this legend . 
He stopped at Mr. Dowler's door , according to custom , and knocked to say good night . 
'Ah ! said Dowler , 'going to bed ? I wish I was . 
Windy isn't it ? 'Very , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick went to his bedchamber , and Mr. Dowler resumed his seat before the fire , in fulfilment of his rash promise to sit up till his wife came home . 
There are few things more worrying than sitting up for somebody , especially if that somebody be at a party . 
Clocks tick so loud , too , when you are sitting up alone , and you seem as if you had an under garment of cobwebs on . 
First , something tickles your right knee , and then the same sensation irritates your left . 
Eyes , too , are mere personal inconveniences and the wick of one candle gets an inch and a half long , while you are snuffing the other . 
These , and various other little nervous annoyances , render sitting up for a length of time after everybody else has gone to bed , anything but a cheerful amusement . 
This was just Mr. Dowler's opinion , as he sat before the fire , and felt honestly indignant with all the inhuman people at the party who were keeping him up . 
'I'm a heavy sleeper , said Mr. Dowler , as he flung himself on the bed . 
I suppose I shall hear a knock here . 
I can hear the watchman . 
Ah ! When Mr. Dowler arrived at this point , he turned the corner at which he had been long hesitating , and fell fast asleep . 
They were very glad to set the chair down , and give a good round loud double knock at the street door . 
They waited some time , but nobody came . 
'Servants is in the arms o' Porpus , I think , said the short chairman , warming his hands at the attendant link boy's torch . 
'I wish he'd give 'em a squeeze and wake 'em , observed the long one . 
'Knock again , will you , if you please , cried Mrs. Dowler from the chair . 
'Knock two or three times , if you please . 
It was all as silent and dark as ever . 
'Dear me ! said Mrs. Dowler . 
'You must knock again , if you please . 
'There ain't a bell , is there , ma'am ? said the short chairman . 
'Yes , there is , interposed the link boy , 'I've been a ringing at it ever so long . 
'It's only a handle , said Mrs. Dowler , 'the wire's broken . 
'I wish the servants' heads wos , growled the long man . 
'I must trouble you to knock again , if you please , said Mrs. Dowler , with the utmost politeness . 
The short man did knock again several times , without producing the smallest effect . 
The tall man , growing very impatient , then relieved him , and kept on perpetually knocking double knocks of two loud knocks each , like an insane postman . 
'Rap rap rap rap rap rap ra , ra , ra , ra , ra , rap ! went the knocker . 
'Here's somebody comin' at last , ma'am , said the short chairman . 
'I wish I wos behind him vith a bradawl , muttered the long one . 
'Who's there ? cried Mr. Winkle , undoing the chain . 
'Don't stop to ask questions , cast iron head , replied the long man , with great disgust , taking it for granted that the inquirer was a footman 'but open the door . 
'Come , look sharp , timber eyelids , added the other encouragingly . 
Mr. Winkle , being half asleep , obeyed the command mechanically , opened the door a little , and peeped out . 
The first thing he saw , was the red glare of the link boy's torch . 
'Well , young man , now you HAVE done it ! said the short chairman . 
'Take it away , take it away , cried Mr. Winkle . 
'Here's somebody coming out of another house put me into the chair . 
'The people are coming down the crescent now . 
There are ladies with 'em cover me up with something . 
Stand before me ! roared Mr. Winkle . 
But the chairmen were too much exhausted with laughing to afford him the slightest assistance , and the ladies were every moment approaching nearer and nearer . 
Mr. Winkle gave a last hopeless knock the ladies were only a few doors off . 
He threw away the extinguished candle , which , all this time he had held above his head , and fairly bolted into the sedan chair where Mrs. Dowler was . 
'Watchman , shouted Dowler furiously , 'stop him hold him keep him tight shut him in , till I come down . 
But Mr. Winkle didn't wait for him . 
It is not unlikely that the inquiry may be made , where Mr. Weller was , all this time ? We will state where he was , in the next chapter . 
Weller , said Mrs. Craddock , upon the morning of this very eventful day , 'here's a letter for you . 
'Wery odd that , said Sam 'I'm afeerd there must be somethin' the matter , for I don't recollect any gen'l'm'n in my circle of acquaintance as is capable o' writin' one . 
'Perhaps something uncommon has taken place , observed Mrs. Craddock . 
It can't be from the gov'ner , said Sam , looking at the direction . 
'He always prints , I know , 'cos he learnt writin' from the large bills in the booking offices . 
It's a wery strange thing now , where this here letter can ha' come from . 
'It's wrote on gilt edged paper , said Sam , as he unfolded it , 'and sealed in bronze vax vith the top of a door key . 
The swarry to be on table at half past nine o'clock punctually . 
This was inclosed in another note , which ran thus 'Mr . 
If Mr. Weller will call on Mr. John Smauker at nine o'clock , Mr. John Smauker will have the pleasure of introducing Mr. Weller . 
The envelope was directed to blank Weller , Esq . 
, at Mr. Pickwick's and in a parenthesis , in the left hand corner , were the words 'airy bell , as an instruction to the bearer . 
'Vell , said Sam , 'this is comin' it rayther powerful , this is . 
I never heerd a biled leg o' mutton called a swarry afore . 
I wonder wot they'd call a roast one . 
'How do you do , Mr. Weller ? said Mr. John Smauker , raising his hat gracefully with one hand , while he gently waved the other in a condescending manner . 
'How do you do , Sir ? 'Why , reasonably conwalessent , replied Sam . 
'How do YOU find yourself , my dear feller ? 'Only so so , said Mr. John Smauker . 
'Ah , you've been a workin' too hard , observed Sam . 
'I was fearful you would it won't do , you know you must not give way to that 'ere uncompromisin' spirit o' yourn . 
'It's not so much that , Mr. Weller , replied Mr. John Smauker , 'as bad wine I'm afraid I've been dissipating . 
'Oh ! that's it , is it ? said Sam 'that's a wery bad complaint , that . 
'And yet the temptation , you see , Mr. Weller , observed Mr. John Smauker . 
'Ah , to be sure , said Sam . 
'Plunged into the very vortex of society , you know , Mr. Weller , said Mr. John Smauker , with a sigh . 
'Dreadful , indeed ! rejoined Sam . 
'P'raps we had , replied Sam , 'or they'll overdo the swarry , and that'll spile it . 
'Have you drank the waters , Mr. Weller ? inquired his companion , as they walked towards High Street . 
'What did you think of 'em , Sir ? 'I thought they was particklery unpleasant , replied Sam . 
'Ah , said Mr. John Smauker , 'you disliked the killibeate taste , perhaps ? 'I don't know much about that 'ere , said Sam . 
'I thought they'd a wery strong flavour o' warm flat irons . 
'That IS the killibeate , Mr. Weller , observed Mr. John Smauker contemptuously . 
'Well , if it is , it's a wery inexpressive word , that's all , said Sam . 
'It may be , but I ain't much in the chimical line myself , so I can't say . 
And here , to the great horror of Mr. John Smauker , Sam Weller began to whistle . 
'I've rayther a way o' putting my hands in my pockets , if it's all the same to you . 
As Sam said this , he suited the action to the word , and whistled far louder than before . 
'This way , said his new friend , apparently much relieved as they turned down a by street 'we shall soon be there . 
'Shall we ? said Sam , quite unmoved by the announcement of his close vicinity to the select footmen of Bath . 
'Yes , said Mr. John Smauker . 
'Don't be alarmed , Mr. Weller . 
'Oh , no , said Sam . 
'That's wery kind on 'em , replied Sam . 
'And you know , resumed Mr. John Smauker , with an air of sublime protection 'you know , as you're a stranger , perhaps , they'll be rather hard upon you at first . 
'They won't be wery cruel , though , will they ? inquired Sam . 
'No , no , replied Mr. John Smauker , pulling forth the fox's head , and taking a gentlemanly pinch . 
'There are some funny dogs among us , and they will have their joke , you know but you mustn't mind 'em , you mustn't mind 'em . 
'I'll try and bear up agin such a reg'lar knock down o' talent , replied Sam . 
'That's right , said Mr. John Smauker , putting forth his fox's head , and elevating his own 'I'll stand by you . 
Upon these were laid knives and forks for six or eight people . 
Some of the knife handles were green , others red , and a few yellow and as all the forks were black , the combination of colours was exceedingly striking . 
'Smauker , my lad , your fin , said the gentleman with the cocked hat . 
Mr. Smauker dovetailed the top joint of his right hand little finger into that of the gentleman with the cocked hat , and said he was charmed to see him looking so well . 
'Well , they tell me I am looking pretty blooming , said the man with the cocked hat , 'and it's a wonder , too . 
'By the bye , said Mr. Tuckle , 'Smauker , my boy , you The remainder of the sentence was forwarded into Mr. John Smauker's ear , by whisper . 
'Oh , dear me , I quite forgot , said Mr. John Smauker . 
'Gentlemen , my friend Mr. Weller . 
'Sorry to keep the fire off you , Weller , said Mr. Tuckle , with a familiar nod . 
'Hope you're not cold , Weller . 
'Not by no means , Blazes , replied Sam . 
'It 'ud be a wery chilly subject as felt cold wen you stood opposite . 
You'd save coals if they put you behind the fender in the waitin' room at a public office , you would . 
'Wery much obliged for your good opinion , sir , replied Sam . 
'We shall get on by degrees , I des say . 
We'll try a better one by and bye . 
At this point the conversation was interrupted by the arrival of a gentleman in orange coloured plush , accompanied by another selection in purple cloth , with a great extent of stocking . 
The new comers having been welcomed by the old ones , Mr. Tuckle put the question that supper be ordered in , which was carried unanimously . 
The greengrocer and his wife then arranged upon the table a boiled leg of mutton , hot , with caper sauce , turnips , and potatoes . 
Mr. Tuckle took the chair , and was supported at the other end of the board by the gentleman in orange plush . 
The greengrocer put on a pair of wash leather gloves to hand the plates with , and stationed himself behind Mr. Tuckle's chair . 
'Harris , said Mr. Tuckle , in a commanding tone . 
'Sir , said the greengrocer . 
'Have you got your gloves on ? 'Yes , Sir . 
'Then take the kiver off . 
The greengrocer did as he was told , with a show of great humility , and obsequiously handed Mr. Tuckle the carving knife in doing which , he accidentally gaped . 
'What do you mean by that , Sir ? said Mr. Tuckle , with great asperity . 
'I beg your pardon , Sir , replied the crestfallen greengrocer , 'I didn't mean to do it , Sir I was up very late last night , Sir . 
'I tell you what my opinion of you is , Harris , said Mr. Tuckle , with a most impressive air , 'you're a wulgar beast . 
'I hope , gentlemen , said Harris , 'that you won't be severe with me , gentlemen . 
I am very much obliged to you indeed , gentlemen , for your patronage , and also for your recommendations , gentlemen , whenever additional assistance in waiting is required . 
I hope , gentlemen , I give satisfaction . 
'No , you don't , Sir , said Mr. Tuckle . 
'Very far from it , Sir . 
'We consider you an inattentive reskel , said the gentleman in the orange plush . 
'And a low thief , added the gentleman in the green foil smalls . 
'And an unreclaimable blaygaird , added the gentleman in purple . 
'Against the rules , said Mr. Tuckle . 
'Too late , too late . 
'No , no positively I couldn't help it , said the gentleman in blue . 
'I appeal to the company . 
An affair of gallantry now , an appointment at the theayter . 
'Oh , that indeed , said the gentleman in the orange plush . 
'Yes raly now , honour bright , said the man in blue . 
'I made a promese to fetch our youngest daughter at half past ten , and she is such an uncauminly fine gal , that I raly hadn't the 'art to disappint her . 
No offence to the present company , Sir , but a petticut , sir a petticut , Sir , is irrevokeable . 
'Oh , raly , raly , Tuckle , you shouldn't , said the man in blue . 
'Your health , Sir , said Sam . 
'I like your conversation much . 
I think it's wery pretty . 
'You're wery good , sir , said Sam . 
'What a lucky feller you are ! 'How do you mean ? inquired the gentleman in blue . 
'That 'ere young lady , replied Sam . 
'She knows wot's wot , she does . 
Mr. Weller closed one eye , and shook his head from side to side , in a manner which was highly gratifying to the personal vanity of the gentleman in blue . 
'I'm afraid your a cunning fellow , Mr. Weller , said that individual . 
'No , no , said Sam . 
'I leave all that 'ere to you . 
'Well , well , Mr. Weller , said the gentleman in blue , 'I think she has remarked my air and manner , Mr. Weller . 
'I should think she couldn't wery well be off o' that , said Sam . 
'Have you any little thing of that kind in hand , sir ? inquired the favoured gentleman in blue , drawing a toothpick from his waistcoat pocket . 
'Not exactly , said Sam . 
'There's no daughters at my place , else o' course I should ha' made up to vun on 'em . 
As it is , I don't think I can do with anythin' under a female markis . 
I might keep up with a young 'ooman o' large property as hadn't a title , if she made wery fierce love to me . 
In fact , that's the only thing , between you and me , that makes the service worth entering into . 
'Just so , said Sam . 
'That's it , o' course . 
When this confidential dialogue had gone thus far , glasses were placed round , and every gentleman ordered what he liked best , before the public house shut up . 
Sam called the greengrocer a 'desp'rate willin , and ordered a large bowl of punch two circumstances which seemed to raise him very much in the opinion of the selections . 
'Gentlemen , said the man in blue , with an air of the most consummate dandyism , 'I'll give you the ladies come . 
'Hear , hear ! said Sam . 
'Which word was that 'ere , Sir ? inquired Sam . 
'Mississes , Sir , replied Mr. John Smauker , with an alarming frown . 
'We don't recognise such distinctions here . 
'Oh , wery good , said Sam 'then I'll amend the obserwation and call 'em the dear creeturs , if Blazes vill allow me . 
, our friend Mr. Whiffers has resigned . 
Universal astonishment fell upon the hearers . 
Each gentleman looked in his neighbour's face , and then transferred his glance to the upstanding coachman . 
'You may well be sapparised , gentlemen , said the coachman . 
The suggestion being loudly approved of , Mr. Whiffers explained . 
He said he certainly could have wished to have continued to hold the appointment he had just resigned . 
It is impossible to conceive the disgust which this avowal awakened in the bosoms of the hearers . 
Loud cries of 'Shame , mingled with groans and hisses , prevailed for a quarter of an hour . 
Mr. Whiffers then added that he feared a portion of this outrage might be traced to his own forbearing and accommodating disposition . 
I've heered a good deal on you as a body , but I will say , that I never thought you was sich uncommon nice men as I find you air . 
Here Sam sat down with a pleasant smile , and his speech having been vociferously applauded , the company broke up . 
'Wy , you don't mean to say you're a goin' old feller ? said Sam Weller to his friend , Mr. John Smauker . 
'I must , indeed , said Mr. Smauker 'I promised Bantam . 
'Oh , wery well , said Sam 'that's another thing . 
P'raps he'd resign if you disappinted him . 
You ain't a goin' , Blazes ? 'Yes , I am , said the man with the cocked hat . 
'Wot , and leave three quarters of a bowl of punch behind you ! said Sam 'nonsense , set down agin . 
Mr. Tuckle was not proof against this invitation . 
He laid aside the cocked hat and stick which he had just taken up , and said he would have one glass , for good fellowship's sake . 
As the gentleman in blue went home the same way as Mr. Tuckle , he was prevailed upon to stop too . 
At last , when the punch was all gone , and the night nearly so , they sallied forth to see each other home . 
At a much earlier hour next morning than his usual time of rising , Mr. Pickwick walked downstairs completely dressed , and rang the bell . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , when Mr. Weller appeared in reply to the summons , 'shut the door . 
'There was an unfortunate occurrence here , last night , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'which gave Mr. Winkle some cause to apprehend violence from Mr. Dowler . 
'So I've heerd from the old lady downstairs , Sir , replied Sam . 
'And I'm sorry to say , Sam , continued Mr. Pickwick , with a most perplexed countenance , 'that in dread of this violence , Mr. Winkle has gone away . 
'Gone avay ! said Sam . 
'Left the house early this morning , without the slightest previous communication with me , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'And is gone , I know not where . 
'He should ha' stopped and fought it out , Sir , replied Sam contemptuously . 
'It wouldn't take much to settle that 'ere Dowler , Sir . 
'Well , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I may have my doubts of his great bravery and determination also . 
But however that may be , Mr. Winkle is gone . 
He must be found , Sam . 
Found and brought back to me . 
'And s'pose he won't come back , Sir ? said Sam . 
'He must be made , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Who's to do it , Sir ? inquired Sam , with a smile . 
'You , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
With these words Mr. Weller left the room , and immediately afterwards was heard to shut the street door . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , grasping his hand , 'you're a capital fellow an invaluable fellow . 
You must follow him , Sam . 
'Cert'nly , Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'The instant you discover him , write to me immediately , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'If he attempts to run away from you , knock him down , or lock him up . 
You have my full authority , Sam . 
'I'll be wery careful , sir , rejoined Sam . 
'You'll tell him , said Mr. Pickwick , 'that I am highly excited , highly displeased , and naturally indignant , at the very extraordinary course he has thought proper to pursue . 
'I will , Sir , replied Sam . 
'I'll mention that 'ere , Sir , rejoined Sam . 
'You think you can find him , Sam ? said Mr. Pickwick , looking earnestly in his face . 
'Oh , I'll find him if he's anyvere , rejoined Sam , with great confidence . 
'Very well , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Then the sooner you go the better . 
With these instructions , Mr. Pickwick placed a sum of money in the hands of his faithful servitor , and ordered him to start for Bristol immediately , in pursuit of the fugitive . 
Sam put a few necessaries in a carpet bag , and was ready for starting . 
He stopped when he had got to the end of the passage , and walking quietly back , thrust his head in at the parlour door . 
'Well , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I fully understands my instructions , do I , Sir ? inquired Sam . 
'I hope so , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'It's reg'larly understood about the knockin' down , is it , Sir ? inquired Sam . 
Do what you think necessary . 
Sam gave a nod of intelligence , and withdrawing his head from the door , set forth on his pilgrimage with a light heart . 
The excellent and considerate feelings which prompted Mr. Winkle to take this step can never be too highly appreciated or too warmly extolled . 
to carry into execution his threat of personal violence against myself , it will be incumbent on me to call him out . 
He has a wife that wife is attached to , and dependent on him . 
Impelled by such reflections , he grasped his carpet bag , and creeping stealthily downstairs , shut the detestable street door with as little noise as possible , and walked off . 
Having inspected the docks and shipping , and viewed the cathedral , he inquired his way to Clifton , and being directed thither , took the route which was pointed out to him . 
'What , don't you know me ? said the medical gentleman . 
Mr. Winkle murmured , in reply , that he had not that pleasure . 
'Why , then , said the medical gentleman , 'there are hopes for me yet I may attend half the old women in Bristol , if I've decent luck . 
'You don't mean to say you weren't down upon me ? said Mr. Bob Sawyer , shaking Mr. Winkle's hand with friendly warmth . 
'Upon my word I was not , replied Mr. Winkle , returning his pressure . 
'It never caught my eye , returned Mr. Winkle . 
'No ! said Mr. Winkle . 
I think the Church rates guesses who I am , and I know the Water works does , because I drew a tooth of his when I first came down here . 
'Well ! said Mr. Winkle . 
'This is indeed a pleasure I did not expect . 
What a very nice place you have here ! 'Pretty well , pretty well , replied Bob Sawyer . 
'And a very snug little business you have , no doubt ? said Mr. Winkle knowingly . 
'Very , replied Bob Sawyer . 
'So snug , that at the end of a few years you might put all the profits in a wine glass , and cover 'em over with a gooseberry leaf . 
'You cannot surely mean that ? said Mr. Winkle . 
'The stock itself 'Dummies , my dear boy , said Bob Sawyer 'half the drawers have nothing in 'em , and the other half don't open . 
'Nonsense ! said Mr. Winkle . 
'Fact honour ! returned Bob Sawyer , stepping out into the shop , and demonstrating the veracity of the assertion by divers hard pulls at the little gilt knobs on the counterfeit drawers . 
'Hardly anything real in the shop but the leeches , and THEY are second hand . 
'I shouldn't have thought it ! exclaimed Mr. Winkle , much surprised . 
'I hope not , replied Bob Sawyer , 'else where's the use of appearances , eh ? But what will you take ? Do as we do ? That's right . 
Ben , my fine fellow , put your hand into the cupboard , and bring out the patent digester . 
Mr. Benjamin Allen smiled his readiness , and produced from the closet at his elbow a black bottle half full of brandy . 
'You don't take water , of course ? said Bob Sawyer . 
'Thank you , replied Mr. Winkle . 
I should like to qualify it , if you have no objection . 
'None in the least , if you can reconcile it to your conscience , replied Bob Sawyer , tossing off , as he spoke , a glass of the liquor with great relish . 
The boy presented himself accordingly . 
'You've been stopping to over all the posts in Bristol , you idle young scamp ! said Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'No , sir , I haven't , replied the boy . 
'You had better not ! said Mr. Bob Sawyer , with a threatening aspect . 
'Then shut the door , and mind the shop . 
'Come , said Mr. Winkle , as the boy retired , 'things are not quite so bad as you would have me believe , either . 
There is SOME medicine to be sent out . 
Mr. Winkle looked perplexed , and Bob Sawyer and his friend laughed . 
'Don't you see ? said Bob . 
'He goes up to a house , rings the area bell , pokes a packet of medicine without a direction into the servant's hand , and walks off . 
Servant takes it into the dining parlour master opens it , and reads the label Draught to be taken at bedtime pills as before lotion as usual the powder . 
From Sawyer's , late Nockemorf's . 
Physicians' prescriptions carefully prepared , and all the rest of it . 
Shows it to his wife she reads the label it goes down to the servants THEY read the label . 
Next day , boy calls Very sorry his mistake immense business great many parcels to deliver Mr. Sawyer's compliments late Nockemorf . 
The name gets known , and that's the thing , my boy , in the medical way . 
Bless your heart , old fellow , it's better than all the advertising in the world . 
We have got one four ounce bottle that's been to half the houses in Bristol , and hasn't done yet . 
'Dear me , I see , observed Mr. Winkle 'what an excellent plan ! 'Oh , Ben and I have hit upon a dozen such , replied Bob Sawyer , with great glee . 
Bless my soul , everybody says , somebody taken suddenly ill ! Sawyer , late Nockemorf , sent for . 
When they had enjoyed the joke to their heart's content , the discourse changed to topics in which Mr. Winkle was more immediately interested . 
We think we have hinted elsewhere , that Mr. Benjamin Allen had a way of becoming sentimental after brandy . 
At this precise period of his existence , Mr. Benjamin Allen had perhaps a greater predisposition to maudlinism than he had ever known before the cause of which malady was briefly this . 
Mr. Winkle professed his heartfelt regret to hear it , and begged to know whether he could do anything to alleviate the sorrows of the suffering student . 
'Nothing , my dear boy , nothing , said Ben . 
He answered , with as much calmness as he could assume , that he perfectly remembered the young lady referred to , and sincerely trusted she was in good health . 
'Our friend Bob is a delightful fellow , Winkle , was the only reply of Mr. Ben Allen . 
'Very , said Mr. Winkle , not much relishing this close connection of the two names . 
'There's a special destiny in the matter , my dear sir there's only five years' difference between 'em , and both their birthdays are in August . 
'And I think , said Mr. Ben Allen , in conclusion . 
'I think there's a prior attachment . 
'Have you any idea who the object of it might be ? asked Mr. Winkle , with great trepidation . 
'I'd show him what I thought of him , said Mr. Ben Allen . 
And round went the poker again , more fiercely than before . 
I think that will cure her , my boy . 
If it doesn't , I'll take her abroad for a little while , and see what that'll do . 
'Oh , the aunt's is in Bristol , is it ? faltered Mr. Winkle . 
'No , no , not in Bristol , replied Mr. Ben Allen , jerking his thumb over his right shoulder 'over that way down there . 
But , hush , here's Bob . 
Not a word , my dear friend , not a word . 
Short as this conversation was , it roused in Mr. Winkle the highest degree of excitement and anxiety . 
The suspected prior attachment rankled in his heart . 
, they sat down to dinner the beer being served up , as Mr. Sawyer remarked , 'in its native pewter . 
This broke up the party . 
So , after taking a glass of soda water and brandy at the bar , he turned into the coffee room , dispirited rather than elevated by the occurrences of the evening . 
Sitting in front of the fire , with his back towards him , was a tallish gentleman in a greatcoat the only other occupant of the room . 
It was rather a cool evening for the season of the year , and the gentleman drew his chair aside to afford the new comer a sight of the fire . 
He had made one step towards it , before he checked himself . 
As he did so , Mr. Dowler very hastily drew back . 
A blow ! Never ! said Mr. Dowler , looking meeker than Mr. Winkle had expected in a gentleman of his ferocity . 
'A blow , Sir ? stammered Mr. Winkle . 
'A blow , Sir , replied Dowler . 
You used a threat against me last night , Sir , a dreadful threat , Sir . 
Here Mr. Winkle turned very pale indeed , and stopped short . 
'I did , said Dowler , with a countenance almost as white as Mr. Winkle's . 
So should I. I was wrong . 
'Now , said Dowler , 'sit down . 
How did you find me ? When did you follow ? Be frank . 
'It's quite accidental , replied Mr. Winkle , greatly perplexed by the curious and unexpected nature of the interview . 
'Glad of it , said Dowler . 
I had forgotten my threat . 
I laughed at the accident . 
'To whom ? inquired Mr. Winkle . 
You made a vow , said she . 
I did , said I. It was a rash one , said she . 
It was , said I. I'll apologise . 
Where is he ? 'Who ? inquired Mr. Winkle . 
You were not to be found . 
Hoped no violence would be committed . 
You had gone , for a friend perhaps . 
High spirit , said I. I admire him . 
Mr. Winkle coughed , and beginning to see how the land lay , assumed a look of importance . 
'I left a note for you , resumed Dowler . 
'I said I was sorry . 
Pressing business called me here . 
You required a verbal explanation . 
I go back to morrow . 
As Dowler progressed in his explanation , Mr. Winkle's countenance grew more and more dignified . 
Mr. Dowler appeared to be impressed with a becoming sense of Mr. Winkle's magnanimity and condescension and the two belligerents parted for the night , with many protestations of eternal friendship . 
'Please , Sir , here's a young man which says he must see you directly , responded the voice of the chambermaid . 
'A young man ! exclaimed Mr. Winkle . 
'Is that you , Sam ? inquired Mr. Winkle , springing out of bed . 
'Quite unpossible to identify any gen'l'm'n vith any degree o' mental satisfaction , vithout lookin' at him , Sir , replied the voice dogmatically . 
'Get out , sir , this instant . 
What do I mean ! Well , that ain't a bad 'un , that ain't . 
'Unlock that door , and leave this room immediately , Sir , said Mr. Winkle . 
'Certainly not , Sam , said Mr. Winkle . 
'There ! Now go to bed , Sam , and we'll talk further about this in the morning . 
'I'm wery sorry , said Sam , 'but I can't go to bed . 
'Not go to bed ! repeated Mr. Winkle . 
'No , said Sam , shaking his head . 
'You don't mean to say you're going back to night , Sam ? urged Mr. Winkle , greatly surprised . 
'Not unless you particklerly wish it , replied Sam 'but I mustn't leave this here room . 
The governor's orders wos peremptory . 
But in reply to each of these positions , Sam shook his head with great firmness , and energetically replied , 'It can't be done . 
And , lastly , that Mr. Winkle should be understood as distinctly pledging himself not to resort to the window , fireplace , or other surreptitious mode of escape in the meanwhile . 
These stipulations having been concluded , Sam locked the door and departed . 
He had nearly got downstairs , when he stopped , and drew the key from his pocket . 
'I quite forgot about the knockin' down , said Sam , half turning back . 
'The governor distinctly said it was to be done . 
Amazin' stupid o' me , that 'ere ! Never mind , said Sam , brightening up , 'it's easily done to morrow , anyvays . 
'Serious , from my heart from my soul ! 'returned Mr. Winkle , with great energy . 
'Remember , said Mr. Pickwick , with beaming eyes , 'we met her at our excellent and hospitable friend's , Winkle . 
It would be an ill return to tamper lightly , and without due consideration , with this young lady's affections . 
I'll not allow that , sir . 
'I have no such intention , indeed , exclaimed Mr. Winkle warmly . 
'I have considered the matter well , for a long time , and I feel that my happiness is bound up in her . 
'That's wot we call tying it up in a small parcel , sir , interposed Mr. Weller , with an agreeable smile . 
And this was his whole stock of knowledge or suspicion on the subject . 
But as none among these young ladies was Miss Arabella Allen , the information left Sam at exactly the old point of wisdom at which he had stood before . 
'Mornin' , old friend , said Sam . 
'Arternoon , you mean , replied the groom , casting a surly look at Sam . 
'You're wery right , old friend , said Sam 'I DO mean arternoon . 
How are you ? 'Why , I don't find myself much the better for seeing of you , replied the ill tempered groom . 
'That's wery odd that is , said Sam , 'for you look so uncommon cheerful , and seem altogether so lively , that it does vun's heart good to see you . 
'No , it ain't , said the groom . 
'Nor Brown , I s'pose ? said Sam . 
'Nor Vilson ? 'No nor that ither , said the groom . 
'Vell , replied Sam , 'then I'm mistaken , and he hasn't got the honour o' my acquaintance , which I thought he had . 
Don't wait here out o' compliment to me , said Sam , as the groom wheeled in the barrow , and prepared to shut the gate . 
'Ease afore ceremony , old boy I'll excuse you . 
'I'd knock your head off for half a crown , said the surly groom , bolting one half of the gate . 
'Couldn't afford to have it done on those terms , rejoined Sam . 
'It 'ud be worth a life's board wages at least , to you , and 'ud be cheap at that . 
Tell 'em not to vait dinner for me , and say they needn't mind puttin' any by , for it'll be cold afore I come in . 
Mr. Weller was a gentleman of great gallantry in his own way , and he no sooner remarked this circumstance than he hastily rose from the large stone , and advanced towards her . 
'My dear , said Sam , sliding up with an air of great respect , 'you'll spile that wery pretty figure out o' all perportion if you shake them carpets by yourself . 
to decline this offer from a perfect stranger when instead of speaking , she started back , and uttered a half suppressed scream . 
Sam was scarcely less staggered , for in the countenance of the well shaped female servant , he beheld the very features of his valentine , the pretty housemaid from Mr. Nupkins's . 
'Wy , Mary , my dear ! said Sam . 
'Lauk , Mr. Weller , said Mary , 'how you do frighten one ! Sam made no verbal answer to this complaint , nor can we precisely say what reply he did make . 
'Why , how did you come here ? said Mary , when the conversation to which this interruption had been offered , was resumed . 
'O' course I came to look arter you , my darlin' , replied Mr. Weller for once permitting his passion to get the better of his veracity . 
'And how did you know I was here ? inquired Mary . 
Who could ha' told me ? 'It wasn't Mr. Muzzle , was it ? inquired Mary . 
replied Sam , with a solemn shake of the head , 'it warn't him . 
'It must have been the cook , said Mary . 
'O' course it must , said Sam . 
'Well , I never heard the like of that ! exclaimed Mary . 
'No more did I , said Sam . 
'But Mary , my dear' here Sam's manner grew extremely affectionate 'Mary , my dear , I've got another affair in hand as is wery pressin' . 
There's one o' my governor's friends Mr. Winkle , you remember him ? 'Him in the green coat ? said Mary . 
'Oh , yes , I remember him . 
'Well , said Sam , 'he's in a horrid state o' love reg'larly comfoozled , and done over vith it . 
'Miss who ? said Mary , in great astonishment . 
'Miss Arabella Allen , said Sam . 
'Goodness gracious ! said Mary , pointing to the garden door which the sulky groom had locked after him . 
'Why , it's that very house she's been living there these six weeks . 
Their upper house maid , which is lady's maid too , told me all about it over the wash house palin's before the family was out of bed , one mornin' . 
'Wot , the wery next door to you ? said Sam . 
'The very next , replied Mary . 
That wery next house ! Wy , I've got a message to her as I've been a trying all day to deliver . 
Having made this arrangement with great despatch , he assisted Mary in the long deferred occupation of shaking the carpets . 
Mr. Weller regaled himself with moderation at the nearest tavern until it was nearly dusk , and then returned to the lane without the thoroughfare . 
'She's a goin' off , soliloquised Sam in great perplexity . 
'Wot a thing it is , as these here young creeturs will go a faintin' avay just ven they oughtn't to . 
Pickwick's servant ! said Arabella earnestly . 
'The wery same , miss , replied Sam . 
'Here's Mr. Vinkle reg'larly sewed up vith desperation , miss . 
'Ah ! said Arabella , drawing nearer the wall . 
'Ah , indeed , said Sam . 
'Oh , no , no , Mr. Weller ! said Arabella , clasping her hands . 
'That's wot he says , miss , replied Sam coolly . 
'He's a man of his word , and it's my opinion he'll do it , miss . 
He's heerd all about you from the sawbones in barnacles . 
'From my brother ! said Arabella , having some faint recognition of Sam's description . 
'I don't rightly know which is your brother , miss , replied Sam . 
'Is it the dirtiest vun o' the two ? 'Yes , yes , Mr. Weller , returned Arabella , 'go on . 
'Oh , what can I do to prevent these dreadful quarrels ! exclaimed Arabella . 
'It's the suspicion of a priory 'tachment as is the cause of it all , replied Sam . 
'You'd better see him , miss . 
'But how ? where ? 'cried Arabella . 
'I dare not leave the house alone . 
to avail herself of them . 
'We must be careful , said Mr. Pickwick , after listening attentively to Sam's tale , 'not for our sakes , but for that of the young lady . 
We must be very cautious . 
'WE ! said Mr. Winkle , with marked emphasis . 
Mr. Pickwick's momentary look of indignation at the tone of this remark , subsided into his characteristic expression of benevolence , as he replied 'WE , Sir ! I shall accompany you . 
'You ! said Mr. Winkle . 
'I , replied Mr. Pickwick mildly . 
'In affording you this interview , the young lady has taken a natural , perhaps , but still a very imprudent step . 
If I am present at the meeting a mutual friend , who is old enough to be the father of both parties the voice of calumny can never be raised against her hereafter . 
Mr. Pickwick's eyes lightened with honest exultation at his own foresight , as he spoke thus . 
Mr. Winkle was touched by this little trait of his delicate respect for the young PROTEGEE of his friend , and took his hand with a feeling of regard , akin to veneration . 
'You SHALL go , said Mr. Winkle . 
'I will , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Weller touched his hat , as an earnest of his obedience , and withdrew to make all needful preparations for the expedition . 
The coach was punctual to the time appointed and Mr. Weller , after duly installing Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Winkle inside , took his seat on the box by the driver . 
Mr. Pickwick appeared struck by Sam's remarks , for he put the lantern into his pocket again , and they walked on in silence . 
'Down here , Sir , said Sam . 
'Let me lead the way . 
This is the lane , Sir . 
Down the lane they went , and dark enough it was . 
It was very pretty to look at , but seemed to have the effect of rendering surrounding objects rather darker than before . 
At length they arrived at the large stone . 
Here Sam recommended his master and Mr. Winkle to seat themselves , while he reconnoitred , and ascertained whether Mary was yet in waiting . 
After an absence of five or ten minutes , Sam returned to say that the gate was opened , and all quiet . 
Following him with stealthy tread , Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Winkle soon found themselves in the garden . 
Here everybody said , 'Hush ! a good many times and that being done , no one seemed to have any very distinct apprehension of what was to be done next . 
'Is Miss Allen in the garden yet , Mary ? inquired Mr. Winkle , much agitated . 
'I don't know , sir , replied the pretty housemaid . 
Goodness gracious , what's that ? 'That 'ere blessed lantern 'ull be the death on us all , exclaimed Sam peevishly . 
'Take care wot you're a doin' on , sir you're a sendin' a blaze o' light , right into the back parlour winder . 
'Dear me ! said Mr. Pickwick , turning hastily aside , 'I didn't mean to do that . 
'Now , it's in the next house , sir , remonstrated Sam . 
'Bless my heart ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , turning round again . 
'Now , it's in the stable , and they'll think the place is afire , said Sam . 
'I never saw such a powerful reflector . 
'There's the young lady's footsteps . 
Now , Mr. Winkle , sir , up vith you . 
'Stop , stop ! said Mr. Pickwick , 'I must speak to her first . 
Help me up , Sam . 
'Gently , Sir , said Sam , planting his head against the wall , and making a platform of his back . 
'Step atop o' that 'ere flower pot , Sir . 
Now then , up vith you . 
'I'm afraid I shall hurt you , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Never mind me , Sir , replied Sam . 
'Lend him a hand , Mr. Winkle . 
'My dear , said Mr. Pickwick , looking over the wall , and catching sight of Arabella , on the other side , 'don't be frightened , my dear , it's only me . 
'Oh , pray go away , Mr. Pickwick , said Arabella . 
'Tell them all to go away . 
I am so dreadfully frightened . 
Dear , dear Mr. Pickwick , don't stop there . 
You'll fall down and kill yourself , I know you will . 
'Now , pray don't alarm yourself , my dear , said Mr. Pickwick soothingly . 
'There is not the least cause for fear , I assure you . 
Stand firm , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , looking down . 
'All right , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Don't be longer than you can conweniently help , sir . 
'Only another moment , Sam , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
That's all , my dear . 
'Indeed , Mr. Pickwick , I am very much obliged to you for your kindness and consideration , replied Arabella , drying her tears with her handkerchief . 
Mr. Winkle himself , inspired by the occasion , was on the wall in a moment , merely pausing to request Sam to be careful of his master . 
'I'll take care on him , sir , replied Sam . 
'Where is he ? What's he doing , Sam ? inquired Mr. Winkle . 
'Bless his old gaiters , rejoined Sam , looking out at the garden door . 
'He's a keepin' guard in the lane vith that 'ere dark lantern , like a amiable Guy Fawkes ! I never see such a fine creetur in my days . 
Blessed if I don't think his heart must ha' been born five and twenty year arter his body , at least ! Mr. Winkle stayed not to hear the encomium upon his friend . 
He had dropped from the wall thrown himself at Arabella's feet and by this time was pleading the sincerity of his passion with an eloquence worthy even of Mr. Pickwick himself . 
They were not meteors they were too low . 
They were not glow worms they were too high . 
They were not will o' the wisps they were not fireflies they were not fireworks . 
He threw himself back in his easy chair , wrapped in contemplations of his future greatness . 
The scientific gentleman was a bachelor . 
He had no wife to call in and astonish , so he rang the bell for his servant . 
'Yes , I did , Sir . 
'What do you think of it , Pruffle ? 'Think of it , Sir ? 'Yes . 
You have been bred up in this country . 
What should you say was the cause for those lights , now ? The scientific gentleman smilingly anticipated Pruffle's reply that he could assign no cause for them at all . 
'I should say it was thieves , Sir , said Pruffle at length . 
'You're a fool , and may go downstairs , said the scientific gentleman . 
'Thank you , Sir , said Pruffle . 
He put on his hat and walked quickly down the garden , determined to investigate the matter to the very bottom . 
'Hold hard , whispered Sam , who was , of course , the first of the party . 
'Show a light for just vun second , Sir . 
'Have you got your vind back agin , Sir , inquired Sam , when they had reached the end . 
Quite , now , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Then come along , Sir , said Sam , setting his master on his feet again . 
'Come betveen us , sir . 
Not half a mile to run . 
Think you're vinnin' a cup , sir . 
Thus encouraged , Mr. Pickwick made the very best use of his legs . 
It may be confidently stated that a pair of black gaiters never got over the ground in better style than did those of Mr. Pickwick on this memorable occasion . 
The coach was waiting , the horses were fresh , the roads were good , and the driver was willing . 
The whole party arrived in safety at the Bush before Mr. Pickwick had recovered his breath . 
'in with you at once , sir , said Sam , as he helped his master out . 
'Don't stop a second in the street , arter that 'ere exercise . 
The vehicle was not exactly a gig , neither was it a stanhope . 
The master himself was a man of about forty , with black hair , and carefully combed whiskers . 
'Now , my fine fellow ! said the man in the rough coat , in an imperious tone , attempting at the same time to push his way past . 
'Now , Sir , wot's the matter ? replied Sam , returning the push with compound interest . 
'Come , none of this , my man this won't do with me , said the owner of the rough coat , raising his voice , and turning white . 
'Here , Smouch ! 'Well , wot's amiss here ? growled the man in the brown coat , who had been gradually sneaking up the court during this short dialogue . 
'Only some insolence of this young man's , said the principal , giving Sam another push . 
'Come , none o' this gammon , growled Smouch , giving him another , and a harder one . 
Mr. Smouch , who was troubled with a hoarse cough , remained below , and expectorated in the passage . 
Mr. Pickwick was fast asleep in bed , when his early visitor , followed by Sam , entered the room . 
The noise they made , in so doing , awoke him . 
'Shaving water , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , from within the curtains . 
'Shave you directly , Mr. Pickwick , said the visitor , drawing one of them back from the bed's head . 
'I've got an execution against you , at the suit of Bardell . 
I suppose you'll come over to my house . 
threw his card on the counterpane , and pulled a gold toothpick from his waistcoat pocket . 
'Namby's the name , said the sheriff's deputy , as Mr. Pickwick took his spectacles from under the pillow , and put them on , to read the card . 
'Namby , Bell Alley , Coleman Street . 
At this point , Sam Weller , who had had his eyes fixed hitherto on Mr. Namby's shining beaver , interfered . 
'Are you a Quaker ? said Sam . 
'I'll let you know I am , before I've done with you , replied the indignant officer . 
'I'll teach you manners , my fine fellow , one of these fine mornings . 
'I'll do the same to you . 
'Observe this , Mr. Pickwick , said the disconcerted officer , gasping for breath . 
'I've been assaulted in the execution of my dooty by your servant in your chamber . 
I call you to witness this . 
'Don't witness nothin' , Sir , interposed Sam . 
'Shut your eyes up tight , Sir . 
I'd pitch him out o' winder , only he couldn't fall far enough , 'cause o' the leads outside . 
'But , Sir ! said Sam . 
'Hold your tongue , interposed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Take that hat up again . 
Mr. Namby , perhaps thinking that such a process might be productive of inconvenience to himself , declined to offer the temptation , and , soon after , called up Smouch . 
Having informed him that the capture was made , and that he was to wait for the prisoner until he should have finished dressing , Namby then swaggered out , and drove away . 
Sam was then despatched for a hackney coach , and in it the triumvirate proceeded to Coleman Street . 
This coffee room was a front parlour , the principal features of which were fresh sand and stale tobacco smoke . 
'You'd better have the loan of my razor this morning , Mr. Ayresleigh , said the man who was stirring the fire , tipping the wink to his friend the boy . 
'Thank you , no , I shan't want it I expect I shall be out , in the course of an hour or so , replied the other in a hurried manner . 
Then , walking again up to the window , and once more returning disappointed , he sighed deeply , and left the room upon which the other two burst into a loud laugh . 
'Well , I never saw such a game as that , said the gentleman who had offered the razor , whose name appeared to be Price . 
'Are his chances of getting out of his difficulties really so great ? 'Chances be d d , replied Price 'he hasn't half the ghost of one . 
I wouldn't give THAT for his chance of walking about the streets this time ten years . 
With this , Mr. Price snapped his fingers contemptuously , and rang the bell . 
At this facetious speech , the young boy , it is almost needless to say , was fairly convulsed . 
'That's right , said Mr. Price . 
All fun , ain't it ? 'Prime ! said the young gentleman . 
'You've got some spirit about you , you have , said Price . 
'You've seen something of life . 
'I rather think I have ! replied the boy . 
He had looked at it through the dirty panes of glass in a bar door . 
Here he had the advantage of hearing Mrs. Namby's performance on a square piano overhead , while the breakfast was getting ready when it came , Mr. Perker came too . 
I've noted down the amount of the taxed costs and damages for which the ca sa was issued , and we had better settle at once and lose no time . 
Namby is come home by this time , I dare say . 
'Perker , said Mr. Pickwick , 'let me hear no more of this , I beg . 
I see no advantage in staying here , so I Shall go to prison to night . 
'You can't go to Whitecross Street , my dear Sir , said Perker . 
'Impossible ! There are sixty beds in a ward and the bolt's on , sixteen hours out of the four and twenty . 
'I would rather go to some other place of confinement if I can , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'If not , I must make the best I can of that . 
'You can go to the Fleet , my dear Sir , if you're determined to go somewhere , said Perker . 
'That'll do , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I'll go there directly I have finished my breakfast . 
'We must have a habeas corpus . 
There'll be no judge at chambers till four o'clock this afternoon . 
You must wait till then . 
'Very good , said Mr. Pickwick , with unmoved patience . 
'Then we will have a chop here , at two . 
See about it , Sam , and tell them to be punctual . 
They were curious looking fellows . 
'Now , said Perker , turning round before he entered one of the offices , to see that his companions were close behind him . 
'In here , my dear sir . 
Hallo , what do you want ? This last question was addressed to the lame man , who , unobserved by Mr. Pickwick , made one of the party . 
In reply to it , the lame man touched his hat again , with all imaginable politeness , and motioned towards Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , no , said Perker , with a smile . 
'We don't want you , my dear friend , we don't want you . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , said the lame man . 
'The gentleman took my card . 
I hope you will employ me , sir . 
The gentleman nodded to me . 
I'll be judged by the gentleman himself . 
You nodded to me , sir ? 'Pooh , pooh , nonsense . 
You didn't nod to anybody , Pickwick ? A mistake , a mistake , said Perker . 
'The gentleman handed me his card , replied Mr. Pickwick , producing it from his waistcoat pocket . 
'I accepted it , as the gentleman seemed to wish it in fact I had some curiosity to look at it when I should be at leisure . 
'A what ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'A bail , replied Perker . 
'A bail ! 'Yes , my dear sir half a dozen of 'em here . 
Bail you to any amount , and only charge half a crown . 
Curious trade , isn't it ? said Perker , regaling himself with a pinch of snuff . 
'Why , I don't exactly know about perjury , my dear sir , replied the little gentleman . 
'Harsh word , my dear sir , very harsh word indeed . 
It's a legal fiction , my dear sir , nothing more . 
Saying which , the attorney shrugged his shoulders , smiled , took a second pinch of snuff , and led the way into the office of the judge's clerk . 
Nor were the conversations of these gentlemen the only sounds that broke upon the ear . 
A clerk hurried in with a bundle of papers , and stared about him . 
'Sniggle and Blink , cried the tenor . 
'Porkin and Snob , growled the bass . 
'Stumpy and Deacon , said the new comer . 
'Well , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'I suppose they are getting the HABEAS CORPUS ready ? 'Yes , said Sam , 'and I vish they'd bring out the have his carcase . 
It's wery unpleasant keepin' us vaitin' here . 
I'd ha' got half a dozen have his carcases ready , pack'd up and all , by this time . 
'And that , said Mr. Pickwick , laughing , 'will be a very long time . 
Sam , call another hackney coach . 
Perker , my dear friend , good bye . 
'I shall go with you , and see you safe there , said Perker . 
'Indeed , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'I would rather go without any other attendant than Sam . 
As soon as I get settled , I will write and let you know , and I shall expect you immediately . 
Until then , good bye . 
As Mr. Pickwick said this , he got into the coach which had by this time arrived , followed by the tipstaff . 
Sam having stationed himself on the box , it rolled away . 
'A most extraordinary man that ! said Perker , as he stopped to pull on his gloves . 
'What a bankrupt he'd make , Sir , observed Mr. Lowten , who was standing near . 
'How he would bother the commissioners ! He'd set 'em at defiance if they talked of committing him , Sir . 
The attorney did not appear very much delighted with his clerk's professional estimate of Mr. Pickwick's character , for he walked away without deigning any reply . 
The hackney coach jolted along Fleet Street , as hackney coaches usually do . 
, and so the vehicle kept behind a cart when the cart stopped , it stopped and when the cart went on again , it did the same . 
Mr. Pickwick sat opposite the tipstaff and the tipstaff sat with his hat between his knees , whistling a tune , and looking out of the coach window . 
By the powerful old gentleman's aid , even a hackney coach gets over half a mile of ground . 
They stopped at length , and Mr. Pickwick alighted at the gate of the Fleet . 
'Sitting for my portrait ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Having your likeness taken , sir , replied the stout turnkey . 
'We're capital hands at likenesses here . 
Take 'em in no time , and always exact . 
Walk in , sir , and make yourself at home . 
'Well , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'then I wish the artists would come . 
This is rather a public place . 
'They von't be long , Sir , I des say , replied Sam . 
'There's a Dutch clock , sir . 
'So I see , observed Mr. Pickwick . 
'And a bird cage , sir , says Sam . 
'Veels vithin veels , a prison in a prison . 
Ain't it , Sir ? As Mr. Weller made this philosophical remark , Mr. Pickwick was aware that his sitting had commenced . 
At length the likeness was completed , and Mr. Pickwick was informed that he might now proceed into the prison . 
'Where am I to sleep to night ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , I don't rightly know about to night , replied the stout turnkey . 
'You'll be chummed on somebody to morrow , and then you'll be all snug and comfortable . 
The first night's generally rather unsettled , but you'll be set all squares to morrow . 
After some discussion , it was discovered that one of the turnkeys had a bed to let , which Mr. Pickwick could have for that night . 
He gladly agreed to hire it . 
'If you'll come with me , I'll show it you at once , said the man . 
'It ain't a large 'un but it's an out and outer to sleep in . 
They passed through the inner gate , and descended a short flight of steps . 
The key was turned after them and Mr. Pickwick found himself , for the first time in his life , within the walls of a debtors' prison . 
'This , said the gentleman , thrusting his hands into his pockets , and looking carelessly over his shoulder to Mr. Pickwick 'this here is the hall flight . 
Unpleasant places to have to go down to but very convenient , I dare say . 
'Yes , I shouldn't wonder if they was convenient , replied the gentleman , 'seeing that a few people live there , pretty snug . 
That's the Fair , that is . 
Having said all this in a breath , Mr. Roker mounted another flight of stairs with Mr. Pickwick and Sam Weller following at his heels . 
'There's a room , young man , observed Mr. Roker . 
'I see it , replied Sam , with a placid nod of the head . 
'You wouldn't think to find such a room as this in the Farringdon Hotel , would you ? said Mr. Roker , with a complacent smile . 
'That's it , replied Mr. Roker , pointing to a very rusty one in a corner . 
'It would make any one go to sleep , that bedstead would , whether they wanted to or not . 
'I should think , said Sam , eyeing the piece of furniture in question with a look of excessive disgust 'I should think poppies was nothing to it . 
'Nothing at all , said Mr. Roker . 
'Nothing but it , said Mr. Roker . 
'One of 'em takes his twelve pints of ale a day , and never leaves off smoking even at his meals . 
'He must be a first rater , said Sam . 
'A , replied Mr. Roker . 
As it was rather warm , some of the tenants of the numerous little rooms which opened into the gallery on either hand , had set their doors ajar . 
Mr. Pickwick peeped into them as he passed along , with great curiosity and interest . 
'Think not , sir ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'You see how these fellows drink , and smoke , and roar , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'It's quite impossible that they can mind it much . 
'Ah , that's just the wery thing , Sir , rejoined Sam , 'they don't mind it it's a reg'lar holiday to them all porter and skittles . 
It's unekal , as my father used to say wen his grog worn't made half and half it's unekal , and that's the fault on it . 
'I think you're right , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , after a few moments' reflection , 'quite right . 
'And who was he ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Wy , that's just the wery point as nobody never know'd , replied Sam . 
'In other words , I suppose , said Mr. Pickwick , 'he got into debt . 
'Just that , Sir , replied Sam , 'and in course o' time he come here in consekens . 
It warn't much execution for nine pound nothin' , multiplied by five for costs but hows'ever here he stopped for seventeen year . 
I ain't seen the market outside , Bill , he says , for seventeen year . 
I know you ain't , says the turnkey , smoking his pipe . 
I should like to see it for a minit , Bill , he says . 
Wery probable , says the turnkey , smoking his pipe wery fierce , and making believe he warn't up to wot the little man wanted . 
Bill , says the little man , more abrupt than afore , I've got the fancy in my head . 
Let me see the public streets once more afore I die and if I ain't struck with apoplexy , I'll be back in five minits by the clock . 
And wot 'ud become o' me if you WOS struck with apoplexy ? said the turnkey . 
He shook the turnkey by the hand out he vent 'And never came back again , said Mr. Pickwick . 
They got him pacified at last and for five years arter that , he never even so much as peeped out o' the lodge gate . 
'At the expiration of that time he died , I suppose , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , he didn't , Sir , replied Sam . 
Hold hard , Bill , he says . 
Wot , ain't you come home yet , Tventy ? says the turnkey , I thought you wos in , long ago . 
No , I wasn't , says the little man , with a smile . 
This request Mr. Samuel Weller prepared to obey , with as good a grace as he could assume , but with a very considerable show of reluctance nevertheless . 
As to the idea of releasing himself by ministering to the sharpness of Dodson Fogg , it never for an instant entered his thoughts . 
In this frame of mind he turned again into the coffee room gallery , and walked slowly to and fro . 
The place was intolerably dirty , and the smell of tobacco smoke perfectly suffocating . 
There was a perpetual slamming and banging of doors as the people went in and out and the noise of their voices and footsteps echoed and re echoed through the passages constantly . 
Mr. Pickwick's heart was really too full to bear it , and he went upstairs to bed . 
, it had at present the merit of being wholly deserted save by Mr. Pickwick himself . 
So , he sat down at the foot of his little iron bedstead , and began to wonder how much a year the warder made out of the dirty room . 
'Bravo ! Heel over toe cut and shuffle pay away at it , Zephyr ! I'm smothered if the opera house isn't your proper hemisphere . 
The voice had no sooner ceased than the room was shaken with such violence that the windows rattled in their frames , and the bedsteads trembled again . 
Mr. Pickwick started up , and remained for some minutes fixed in mute astonishment at the scene before him . 
He was a tall fellow , with an olive complexion , long dark hair , and very thick bushy whiskers meeting under his chin . 
He wore no neckerchief , as he had been playing rackets all day , and his Open shirt collar displayed their full luxuriance . 
On his head he wore one of the common eighteenpenny French skull caps , with a gaudy tassel dangling therefrom , very happily in keeping with a common fustian coat . 
His legs , which , being long , were afflicted with weakness , graced a pair of Oxford mixture trousers , made to show the full symmetry of those limbs . 
There was a rakish , vagabond smartness , and a kind of boastful rascality , about the whole man , that was worth a mine of gold . 
'Why , bless the gentleman's honest heart and soul ! said the Zephyr , turning round and affecting the extremity of surprise 'the gentleman is awake . 
'Why don't you ask the gentleman what he'll take ? 'Dear me , I quite forgot , replied the other . 
'Well , you're a trump , and I like you all the better for it , said the Zephyr . 
'Now jump into bed again , or you'll catch the rheumatics . 
No malice , I hope ? said the man , extending a hand the size of the yellow clump of fingers which sometimes swings over a glover's door . 
'Certainly not , said Mr. Pickwick , with great alacrity for , now that the excitement was over , he began to feel rather cool about the legs . 
'Allow me the H onour , said the gentleman with the whiskers , presenting his dexter hand , and aspirating the h . 
'With much pleasure , sir , said Mr. Pickwick and having executed a very long and solemn shake , he got into bed again . 
'My name is Smangle , sir , said the man with the whiskers . 
'Oh , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Mine is Mivins , said the man in the stockings . 
'I am delighted to hear it , sir , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Hem , coughed Mr. Smangle . 
'Did you speak , sir ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , I did not , sir , said Mr. Smangle . 
'Are you going through the court , sir ? inquired Mr. Smangle . 
'Through the what ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Through the court Portugal Street the Court for Relief of You know . 
'Oh , no , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , I am not . 
'Going out , perhaps ? suggested Mr. Mivins . 
'I fear not , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'I refuse to pay some damages , and am here in consequence . 
'Ah , said Mr. Smangle , 'paper has been my ruin . 
'A stationer , I presume , Sir ? said Mr. Pickwick innocently . 
'Stationer ! No , no confound and curse me ! Not so low as that . 
When I say paper , I mean bills . 
'Oh , you use the word in that sense . 
I see , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Damme ! A gentleman must expect reverses , said Smangle . 
'What of that ? Here am I in the Fleet Prison . 
What then ? I'm none the worse for that , am I ? 'Not a bit , replied Mr. Mivins . 
'Well but come , said Mr. Smangle 'this is dry work . 
Let's rinse our mouths with a drop of burnt sherry the last comer shall stand it , Mivins shall fetch it , and I'll help to drink it . 
That's a fair and gentlemanlike division of labour , anyhow . 
'I say , whispered Smangle , the moment his friend had left the room 'what did you give him ? 'Half a sovereign , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'He's a devilish pleasant gentlemanly dog , said Mr. Smangle 'infernal pleasant . 
I don't know anybody more so but Here Mr. Smangle stopped short , and shook his head dubiously . 
'You don't think there is any probability of his appropriating the money to his own use ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Oh , no ! Mind , I don't say that I expressly say that he's a devilish gentlemanly fellow , said Mr. Smangle . 
'You know where the coffee room is , said Smangle 'just run down , and tell that gentleman you've come to help him up with the jug . 
Or stop I'll tell you what I'll tell you how we'll do him , said Smangle , with a cunning look . 
'How ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Send down word that he's to spend the change in cigars . 
Run and tell him that d'ye hear ? They shan't be wasted , continued Smangle , turning to Mr. Pickwick . 
In which , to show his sincerity , he forthwith pledged the company in a draught which half emptied it . 
Nor were the two last named gentlemen as much edified as they might have been by the moving passages narrated . 
'Well will you know me again ? said Mr. Smangle , with a frown . 
'I'd svear to you anyveres , Sir , replied Sam cheerfully . 
'Don't be impertinent to a gentleman , Sir , said Mr. Smangle . 
'Not on no account , replied Sam . 
'Mivins ! said Mr. Smangle , with a passionate air . 
'What's the office ? replied that gentleman from his couch . 
'Who the devil is this fellow ? ''Gad , said Mr. Mivins , looking lazily out from under the bed clothes , 'I ought to ask YOU that . 
Hasn't he any business here ? 'No , replied Mr. Smangle . 
The conversation exhibiting these unequivocal symptoms of verging on the personal , Mr. Pickwick deemed it a fit point at which to interpose . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Sir , rejoined that gentleman . 
'I shall get up , said Mr. Pickwick 'give me some clean things . 
As to Mr. Pickwick , the affection he conceived for him knew no limits . 
'Now is there anything I can do for you , my dear Sir ? said Smangle . 
'Nothing that I am aware of , I am obliged to you , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
Shall I put any of those little things up with mine ? Don't say anything about the trouble . 
'There's nothing you want to give out for the man to brush , my dear creature , is there ? resumed Smangle . 
'Nothin' whatever , my fine feller , rejoined Sam , taking the reply into his own mouth . 
'Nothin' whatever , Sir , retorted Sam 'I'm afeered the little box must be chock full o' your own as it is . 
He accordingly retired in dudgeon to the racket ground , where he made a light and whole some breakfast on a couple of the cigars which had been purchased on the previous night . 
'Accommodation , eh ? said that gentleman , consulting a large book . 
'Plenty of that , Mr. Pickwick . 
Your chummage ticket will be on twenty seven , in the third . 
'Oh , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'My what , did you say ? 'Your chummage ticket , replied Mr. Roker 'you're up to that ? 'Not quite , replied Mr. Pickwick , with a smile . 
'Why , said Mr. Roker , 'it's as plain as Salisbury . 
You'll have a chummage ticket upon twenty seven in the third , and them as is in the room will be your chums . 
'Are there many of them ? inquired Mr. Pickwick dubiously . 
'Three , replied Mr. Roker . 
'One of 'em's a parson , said Mr. Roker , filling up a little piece of paper as he spoke 'another's a butcher . 
'Eh ? exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'A butcher , repeated Mr. Roker , giving the nib of his pen a tap on the desk to cure it of a disinclination to mark . 
'I should think so , replied the party addressed , with a strong emphasis on the personal pronoun . 
'Do you know what the third gentlemen is ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , not very much gratified by this description of his future associates . 
'What is that Simpson , Neddy ? said Mr. Roker , turning to his companion . 
'What Simpson ? said Neddy . 
'Why , him in twenty seven in the third , that this gentleman's going to be chummed on . 
'Oh , him ! replied Neddy 'he's nothing exactly . 
He WAS a horse chaunter he's a leg now . 
'Ah , so I thought , rejoined Mr. Roker , closing the book , and placing the small piece of paper in Mr. Pickwick's hands . 
'That's the ticket , sir . 
Very much perplexed by this summary disposition of this person , Mr. Pickwick walked back into the prison , revolving in his mind what he had better do . 
'Which is twenty seven , my good fellow ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Five doors farther on , replied the pot boy . 
'There's the likeness of a man being hung , and smoking the while , chalked outside the door . 
After repeating this process several times without effect , he ventured to open the door and peep in . 
'I believe , said Mr. Pickwick , consulting his ticket 'I believe this is twenty seven in the third ? 'Well ? replied the gentleman . 
'I have come here in consequence of receiving this bit of paper , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
'Hand it over , said the gentleman . 
, after a very discontented sort of a pause . 
Mr. Pickwick thought so also but , under all the circumstances , he considered it a matter of sound policy to be silent . 
These two gentlemen having by turns perused Mr. Pickwick's billet , the one expressed his opinion that it was 'a rig , and the other his conviction that it was 'a go . 
Having recorded their feelings in these very intelligible terms , they looked at Mr. Pickwick and each other in awkward silence . 
While this was going on , Mr. Pickwick had been eyeing the room , which was filthily dirty , and smelt intolerably close . 
There was no vestige of either carpet , curtain , or blind . 
There was not even a closet in it . 
'I suppose this can be managed somehow , said the butcher , after a pretty long silence . 
'What will you take to go out ? 'I beg your pardon , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'What did you say ? I hardly understand you . 
'What will you take to be paid out ? said the butcher . 
'The regular chummage is two and six . 
Will you take three bob ? 'And a bender , suggested the clerical gentleman . 
'Well , I don't mind that it's only twopence a piece more , said Mr. Martin . 
'What do you say , now ? We'll pay you out for three and sixpence a week . 
Come ! 'And stand a gallon of beer down , chimed in Mr. Simpson . 
'There ! 'And drink it on the spot , said the chaplain . 
'Now ! 'I really am so wholly ignorant of the rules of this place , returned Mr. Pickwick , 'that I do not yet comprehend you . 
Can I live anywhere else ? I thought I could not . 
At this inquiry Mr. Martin looked , with a countenance of excessive surprise , at his two friends , and then each gentleman pointed with his right thumb over his left shoulder . 
'CAN you ! repeated Mr. Martin , with a smile of pity . 
'Well , if I knew as little of life as that , I'd eat my hat and swallow the buckle whole , said the clerical gentleman . 
'So would I , added the sporting one solemnly . 
'I knowed it ! said Mr. Roker , with a chuckle , when Mr. Pickwick stated the object with which he had returned . 
'Didn't I say so , Neddy ? The philosophical owner of the universal penknife growled an affirmative . 
'I knowed you'd want a room for yourself , bless you ! said Mr. Roker . 
You'll hire that of me , I suppose ? That's the reg'lar thing . 
'With great pleasure , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'There's a capital room up in the coffee room flight , that belongs to a Chancery prisoner , said Mr. Roker . 
'It'll stand you in a pound a week . 
I suppose you don't mind that ? 'Not at all , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Just step there with me , said Roker , taking up his hat with great alacrity 'the matter's settled in five minutes . 
Lord ! why didn't you say at first that you was willing to come down handsome ? The matter was soon arranged , as the turnkey had foretold . 
The Chancery prisoner had been there long enough to have lost his friends , fortune , home , and happiness , and to have acquired the right of having a room to himself . 
As they struck the bargain , Mr. Pickwick surveyed him with a painful interest . 
He was a tall , gaunt , cadaverous man , in an old greatcoat and slippers , with sunken cheeks , and a restless , eager eye . 
His lips were bloodless , and his bones sharp and thin . 
God help him ! the iron teeth of confinement and privation had been slowly filing him down for twenty years . 
'And where will you live meanwhile , Sir ? said Mr. Pickwick , as he laid the amount of the first week's rent , in advance , on the tottering table . 
The man gathered up the money with a trembling hand , and replied that he didn't know yet he must go and see where he could move his bed to . 
'I am afraid , sir , said Mr. Pickwick , laying his hand gently and compassionately on his arm 'I am afraid you will have to live in some noisy , crowded place . 
Now , pray , consider this room your own when you want quiet , or when any of your friends come to see you . 
'Friends ! interposed the man , in a voice which rattled in his throat . 
I am a dead man dead to society , without the pity they bestow on those whose souls have passed to judgment . 
'Rides rather rusty , said Mr. Roker , with a smile . 
'Ah ! they're like the elephants . 
'Now , is there anything more we can do for you ? inquired Mr. Roker , looking round with great satisfaction , and gaily chinking the first week's hire in his closed fist . 
'Why , yes , said Mr. Pickwick , who had been musing deeply for some time . 
'Are there any people here who run on errands , and so forth ? 'Outside , do you mean ? inquired Mr. Roker . 
I mean who are able to go outside . 
'Yes , there is , said Roker . 
'There's an unfortunate devil , who has got a friend on the poor side , that's glad to do anything of that sort . 
He's been running odd jobs , and that , for the last two months . 
Shall I send him ? 'If you please , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
The poor side , you say ? I should like to see it . 
I'll go to him myself . 
The poor side of a debtor's prison is , as its name imports , that in which the most miserable and abject class of debtors are confined . 
A prisoner having declared upon the poor side , pays neither rent nor chummage . 
The receipts of this box , when there were any , were divided among the poor prisoners and the men on the poor side relieved each other in this degrading office . 
Although this custom has been abolished , and the cage is now boarded up , the miserable and destitute condition of these unhappy persons remains the same . 
Horses , dogs , and drink had brought him there , pell mell . 
He was riding , in imagination , some desperate steeplechase at that moment . 
A young girl his little grand daughter was hanging about him , endeavouring , with a thousand childish devices , to engage his attention but the old man neither saw nor heard her . 
The voice that had been music to him , and the eyes that had been light , fell coldly on his senses . 
His limbs were shaking with disease , and the palsy had fastened on his mind . 
There were two or three other men in the room , congregated in a little knot , and noiselessly talking among themselves . 
Such were the objects which presented themselves to Mr. Pickwick's view , as he looked round him in amazement . 
The noise of some one stumbling hastily into the room , roused him . 
Turning his eyes towards the door , they encountered the new comer and in him , through his rags and dirt , he recognised the familiar features of Mr. Job Trotter . 
Pickwick ! exclaimed Job aloud . 
'Eh ? said Jingle , starting from his seat . 
'Mr ! So it is queer place strange things serves me right very . 
Mr. Jingle thrust his hands into the place where his trousers pockets used to be , and , dropping his chin upon his breast , sank back into his chair . 
Mr. Pickwick was affected the two men looked so very miserable . 
Mr. Pickwick looked mildly at Jingle , and said 'I should like to speak to you in private . 
Will you step out for an instant ? 'Certainly , said Jingle , rising hastily . 
'Can't step far no danger of overwalking yourself here spike park grounds pretty romantic , but not extensive open for public inspection family always in town housekeeper desperately careful very . 
'You have forgotten your coat , said Mr. Pickwick , as they walked out to the staircase , and closed the door after them . 
'Spout dear relation uncle Tom couldn't help it must eat , you know . 
Wants of nature and all that . 
'What do you mean ? 'Gone , my dear sir last coat can't help it . 
Lived on a pair of boots whole fortnight . 
Silk umbrella ivory handle week fact honour ask Job knows it . 
'True , said Jingle , nodding his head . 
'Pawnbroker's shop duplicates here small sums mere nothing all rascals . 
'Oh , said Mr. Pickwick , much relieved by this explanation 'I understand you . 
You have pawned your wardrobe . 
'Everything Job's too all shirts gone never mind saves washing . 
Jingle delivered this singular summary of his prospects in life , with his accustomed volubility , and with various twitches of the countenance to counterfeit smiles . 
Mr. Pickwick easily perceived that his recklessness was assumed , and looking him full , but not unkindly , in the face , saw that his eyes were moist with tears . 
'Good fellow , said Jingle , pressing his hand , and turning his head away . 
'Ungrateful dog boyish to cry can't help it bad fever weak ill hungry . 
Deserved it all but suffered much very . 
'Come , come , said Mr. Pickwick , with considerable emotion , 'we will see what can be done , when I know all about the matter . 
Here , Job where is that fellow ? 'Here , sir , replied Job , presenting himself on the staircase . 
We have described him , by the bye , as having deeply sunken eyes , in the best of times . 
In his present state of want and distress , he looked as if those features had gone out of town altogether . 
'Here , sir , cried Job . 
'Come here , sir , said Mr. Pickwick , trying to look stern , with four large tears running down his waistcoat . 
Take what ? In the ordinary acceptation of such language , it should have been a blow . 
'Well , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Pretty comfortable now , eh , Sam ? 'Pretty vell , sir , responded Sam , looking round him in a disparaging manner . 
'You have brought the things I wanted ? Mr. Weller in reply pointed to various packages which he had arranged , as neatly as he could , in a corner of the room . 
'Very well , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , after a little hesitation 'listen to what I am going to say , Sam . 
'Cert'nly , Sir , rejoined Mr. Weller 'fire away , Sir . 
'I have felt from the first , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , with much solemnity , 'that this is not the place to bring a young man to . 
'Nor an old 'un neither , Sir , observed Mr. Weller . 
It is better for those young men , in every point of view , that they should not remain here . 
Do you understand me , Sam ? 'Vy no , Sir , I do NOT , replied Mr. Weller doggedly . 
'Try , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I see you comprehend me , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , 'for a time you must leave me . 
'Oh , for a time , eh , sir ? 'rejoined Mr. Weller . 
'Yes , for the time that I remain here , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Your wages I shall continue to pay . 
Any one of my three friends will be happy to take you , were it only out of respect to me . 
'Now I'll tell you wot it is , Sir , said Mr. Weller , in a grave and solemn voice . 
'This here sort o' thing won't do at all , so don't let's hear no more about it . 
'I am serious , and resolved , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'You air , air you , sir ? inquired Mr. Weller firmly . 
'Wery good , Sir then so am I. Thus speaking , Mr. Weller fixed his hat on his head with great precision , and abruptly left the room . 
'Sam ! cried Mr. Pickwick , calling after him , 'Sam ! Here ! But the long gallery ceased to re echo the sound of footsteps . 
These gentlemen are the Commissioners of the Insolvent Court , and the place in which they sit , is the Insolvent Court itself . 
It must not be supposed that any of these people have the least shadow of business in , or the remotest connection with , the place they so indefatigably attend . 
If they had , it would be no matter of surprise , and the singularity of the thing would cease . 
Whatever they do , there they sit from the first moment to the last . 
When it is heavy , rainy weather , they all come in , wet through and at such times the vapours of the court are like those of a fungus pit . 
A casual visitor might suppose this place to be a temple dedicated to the Genius of Seediness . 
The very barristers' wigs are ill powdered , and their curls lack crispness . 
But the attorneys , who sit at a large bare table below the commissioners , are , after all , the greatest curiosities . 
The professional establishment of the more opulent of these gentlemen , consists of a blue bag and a boy generally a youth of the Jewish persuasion . 
They are of a greasy and mildewed appearance and if they can be said to have any vices at all , perhaps drinking and cheating are the most conspicuous among them . 
Their residences are usually on the outskirts of 'the Rules , chiefly lying within a circle of one mile from the obelisk in St . 
Their looks are not prepossessing , and their manners are peculiar . 
Being short necked and asthmatic , however , he respired principally through this feature so , perhaps , what it wanted in ornament , it made up in usefulness . 
'I'm sure to bring him through it , said Mr. Pell . 
'Are you , though ? replied the person to whom the assurance was pledged . 
'Certain sure , replied Pell 'but if he'd gone to any irregular practitioner , mind you , I wouldn't have answered for the consequences . 
'Ah ! said the other , with open mouth . 
'No , that I wouldn't , said Mr. Pell and he pursed up his lips , frowned , and shook his head mysteriously . 
'And vere is George ? inquired the old gentleman . 
who were twins , and between whom an unaffected and devoted attachment existed . 
'How is it ? All right behind , and full inside ? 'All right , old feller , replied the embarrassed gentleman . 
'Is the gray mare made over to anybody ? inquired Mr. Weller anxiously . 
George nodded in the affirmative . 
'Vell , that's all right , said Mr. Weller . 
'Coach taken care on , also ? 'Con signed in a safe quarter , replied George , wringing the heads off half a dozen shrimps , and swallowing them without any more ado . 
'Wery good , wery good , said Mr. Weller . 
'Alvays see to the drag ven you go downhill . 
I told my clerk to come over and tell us when there was a chance . 
The officiating damsel , who had anticipated the order before it was given , set the glass of spirits before Pell , and retired . 
Gentlemen , my service to you . 
Having emptied the glass in a twinkling , Mr. Pell smacked his lips , and looked complacently round on the assembled coachmen , who evidently regarded him as a species of divinity . 
'Let me see , said the legal authority . 
'Ha , ha ! laughed Mr. Pell . 
'Not bad , not bad . 
'The late Lord Chancellor , gentlemen , was very fond of me , said Mr. Pell . 
'And wery creditable in him , too , interposed Mr. Weller . 
'Hear , hear , assented Mr. Pell's client . 
'Why shouldn't he be ? 'Ah ! Why , indeed ! said a very red faced man , who had said nothing yet , and who looked extremely unlikely to say anything more . 
'Why shouldn't he ? A murmur of assent ran through the company . 
You're a man of talent you can get anybody through the Insolvent Court , Pell and your country should be proud of you . 
Those were his very words . 
My Lord , I said , you flatter me . 
Pell , he said , if I do , I'm damned . 
'Did he say that ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'He did , replied Pell . 
'Vell , then , said Mr. Weller , 'I say Parliament ought to ha' took it up and if he'd been a poor man , they would ha' done it . 
'But , my dear friend , argued Mr. Pell , 'it was in confidence . 
'In what ? said Mr. Weller . 
'Oh ! wery good , replied Mr. Weller , after a little reflection . 
'If he damned hisself in confidence , o' course that was another thing . 
'Of course it was , said Mr. Pell . 
'The distinction's obvious , you will perceive . 
'Alters the case entirely , said Mr. Weller . 
'No , I will not go on , Sir , said Mr. Pell , in a low and serious tone . 
'You have reminded me , Sir , that this conversation was private private and confidential , gentlemen . 
Gentlemen , I am a professional man . 
It may be that I am a good deal looked up to , in my profession it may be that I am not . 
Observations have already been made , in this room , injurious to the reputation of my noble friend . 
You will excuse me , gentlemen I was imprudent . 
I feel that I have no right to mention this matter without his concurrence . 
Thank you , Sir thank you . 
Thus delivering himself , Mr. Pell thrust his hands into his pockets , and , frowning grimly around , rattled three halfpence with terrible determination . 
that the case was coming on directly . 
Mr. Weller , being stout , cast himself at once into the crowd , with the desperate hope of ultimately turning up in some place which would suit him . 
'Samivel ! exclaimed Mr. Weller , when he was thus enabled to behold his rescuer . 
They won't pass that werdick , they won't pass it , Sammy . 
And Mr. Weller shook his head with legal solemnity . 
'Wot a perwerse old file it is ! exclaimed Sam . 
'always a goin' on about werdicks and alleybis and that . 
Who said anything about the werdick ? Mr. Weller made no reply , but once more shook his head most learnedly . 
'Leave off rattlin' that 'ere nob o' yourn , if you don't want it to come off the springs altogether , said Sam impatiently , 'and behave reasonable . 
I vent all the vay down to the Markis o' Granby , arter you , last night . 
'Did you see the Marchioness o' Granby , Sammy ? inquired Mr. Weller , with a sigh . 
'Yes , I did , replied Sam . 
'How wos the dear creetur a lookin' ? 'Wery queer , said Sam . 
'I think she's a injurin' herself gradivally vith too much o' that 'ere pine apple rum , and other strong medicines of the same natur . 
'You don't mean that , Sammy ? said the senior earnestly . 
'I do , indeed , replied the junior . 
Mr. Weller seized his son's hand , clasped it , and let it fall . 
There was an expression on his countenance in doing so not of dismay or apprehension , but partaking more of the sweet and gentle character of hope . 
'He's uncommon pale , replied his father , ''cept about the nose , which is redder than ever . 
His appetite is wery so so , but he imbibes wonderful . 
'Vell , now , said Sam , 'about my affair . 
Just open them ears o' yourn , and don't say nothin' till I've done . 
With this preface , Sam related , as succinctly as he could , the last memorable conversation he had had with Mr. Pickwick . 
'Stop there by himself , poor creetur ! exclaimed the elder Mr. Weller , 'without nobody to take his part ! It can't be done , Samivel , it can't be done . 
'O' course it can't , asserted Sam 'I know'd that , afore I came . 
'Why , they'll eat him up alive , Sammy , 'exclaimed Mr. Weller . 
Sam nodded his concurrence in the opinion . 
'He goes in rayther raw , Sammy , said Mr. Weller metaphorically , 'and he'll come out , done so ex ceedin' brown , that his most formiliar friends won't know him . 
Roast pigeon's nothin' to it , Sammy . 
'It oughtn't to be , Samivel , said Mr. Weller gravely . 
'It mustn't be , said Sam . 
'Cert'nly not , said Mr. Weller . 
'Vell now , said Sam , 'you've been a prophecyin' away , wery fine , like a red faced Nixon , as the sixpenny books gives picters on . 
'Who wos he , Sammy ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'Never mind who he was , retorted Sam 'he warn't a coachman that's enough for you . 
'I know'd a ostler o' that name , said Mr. Weller , musing . 
'It warn't him , said Sam . 
'This here gen'l'm'n was a prophet . 
'Wot's a prophet ? inquired Mr. Weller , looking sternly on his son . 
'Wy , a man as tells what's a goin' to happen , replied Sam . 
'I wish I'd know'd him , Sammy , said Mr. Weller . 
'P'raps he might ha' throw'd a small light on that 'ere liver complaint as we wos a speakin' on , just now . 
Hows'ever , if he's dead , and ain't left the bisness to nobody , there's an end on it . 
Go on , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , with a sigh . 
'Well , said Sam , 'you've been a prophecyin' avay about wot'll happen to the gov'ner if he's left alone . 
Don't you see any way o' takin' care on him ? 'No , I don't , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , with a reflective visage . 
'No vay at all ? inquired Sam . 
Sam Weller received both of these suggestions with unexpected contempt , and again propounded his question . 
'No , said the old gentleman 'if he von't let you stop there , I see no vay at all . 
It's no thoroughfare , Sammy , no thoroughfare . 
'Well , then , I'll tell you wot it is , said Sam , 'I'll trouble you for the loan of five and twenty pound . 
'Wot good'll that do ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'Never mind , replied Sam . 
'P'raps you may ask for it five minits arterwards p'raps I may say I von't pay , and cut up rough . 
'Wot a old image it is ! exclaimed Sam , indignant at this loss of time . 
'What are you a settin' down there for , con wertin' your face into a street door knocker , wen there's so much to be done . 
Where's the money ? 'In the boot , Sammy , in the boot , replied Mr. Weller , composing his features . 
'Hold my hat , Sammy . 
'I say , said Sam , 'none o' that . 
'None o' wot ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'Wy , none o' them unconstitootional ways o' doin' it , retorted Sam . 
'The have his carcass , next to the perpetual motion , is vun of the blessedest things as wos ever made . 
I've read that 'ere in the newspapers wery of'en . 
'Well , wot's that got to do vith it ? inquired Mr. Weller . 
'Just this here , said Sam , 'that I'll patronise the inwention , and go in , that vay . 
No visperin's to the Chancellorship I don't like the notion . 
It mayn't be altogether safe , vith reference to gettin' out agin . 
The attorney was in high glee , for the embarrassed coach horser was ordered to be discharged forthwith . 
The mirth of gentlemen of this class is of a grave and quiet character , usually but the present instance was one of peculiar festivity , and they relaxed in proportion . 
Upon which , as is not unusual in such cases , a rather angry colloquy ensued . 
'Gentlemen , said the coach horser , 'rather than disturb the harmony of this delightful occasion , perhaps Mr. Samuel Weller will oblige the company . 
ROMANCE I Bold Turpin vunce , on Hounslow Heath , His bold mare Bess bestrode er Ven there he see'd the Bishop's coach A coming along the road er . 
The coachman he not likin' the job , Set off at full gal lop , But Dick put a couple of balls in his nob , And perwailed on him to stop . 
But Dick put a couple of balls in his nob , And perwailed on him to stop . 
'I maintain that that 'ere song's personal to the cloth , said the mottled faced gentleman , interrupting it at this point . 
'I demand the name o' that coachman . 
'Nobody know'd , replied Sam . 
'He hadn't got his card in his pocket . 
'I object to the introduction o' politics , said the mottled faced gentleman . 
'I submit that , in the present company , that 'ere song's political and , wot's much the same , that it ain't true . 
I say that that coachman did not run away but that he died game game as pheasants and I won't hear nothin' said to the contrairey . 
'All right , Sammy , said Mr. Weller . 
'The officer will be here at four o'clock , said Mr. Pell . 
'I suppose you won't run away meanwhile , eh ? Ha ! ha ! 'P'raps my cruel pa 'ull relent afore then , replied Sam , with a broad grin . 
'Not I , said the elder Mr. Weller . 
'Not on no account , replied the inexorable creditor . 
'I'll give bills for the amount , at sixpence a month , said Sam . 
'I won't take 'em , said Mr. Weller . 
And Mr. Pell smiled again , as he called Mr. Weller's attention to the amount . 
'Thank you , thank you , said the professional gentleman , taking up another of the greasy notes as Mr. Weller took it from the pocket book . 
'Three ten and one ten is five . 
Much obliged to you , Mr. Weller . 
Your son is a most deserving young man , very much so indeed , Sir . 
It's a very pleasant trait in a young man's character , very much so , added Mr. Pell , smiling smoothly round , as he buttoned up the money . 
'Wot a game it is ! said the elder Mr. Weller , with a chuckle . 
'A reg'lar prodigy son ! 'Prodigal prodigal son , Sir , suggested Mr. Pell , mildly . 
'Never mind , Sir , said Mr. Weller , with dignity . 
'I know wot's o'clock , Sir . 
Wen I don't , I'll ask you , Sir . 
By the time the officer arrived , Sam had made himself so extremely popular , that the congregated gentlemen determined to see him to prison in a body . 
So off they set the plaintiff and defendant walking arm in arm , the officer in front , and eight stout coachmen bringing up the rear . 
At Serjeant's Inn Coffee house the whole party halted to refresh , and , the legal arrangements being completed , the procession moved on again . 
Nothing but these little incidents occurred on the way . 
'Come in , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Sam appeared , pulled off his hat , and smiled . 
Put down your hat , Sam , and let me explain my meaning , a little more at length . 
'Won't presently do , sir ? inquired Sam . 
'Certainly , said Mr. Pickwick 'but why not now ? 'I'd rayther not now , sir , rejoined Sam . 
'Why ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
''Cause said Sam , hesitating . 
'Because of what ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , alarmed at his follower's manner . 
''Cause , rejoined Sam ''cause I've got a little bisness as I want to do . 
'What business ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , surprised at Sam's confused manner . 
'Nothin' partickler , Sir , replied Sam . 
'Oh , if it's nothing particular , said Mr. Pickwick , with a smile , 'you can speak with me first . 
'I think I'd better see arter it at once , said Sam , still hesitating . 
Mr. Pickwick looked amazed , but said nothing . 
'The fact is said Sam , stopping short . 
'Well ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , the fact is , said Sam , with a desperate effort , 'perhaps I'd better see arter my bed afore I do anythin' else . 
'YOUR BED ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , in astonishment . 
'Yes , my bed , Sir , replied Sam , 'I'm a prisoner . 
I was arrested this here wery arternoon for debt . 
'You arrested for debt ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , sinking into a chair . 
'Yes , for debt , Sir , replied Sam . 
'And the man as puts me in , 'ull never let me out till you go yourself . 
'Bless my heart and soul ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick . 
'What do you mean ? 'Wot I say , Sir , rejoined Sam . 
'If it's forty years to come , I shall be a prisoner , and I'm very glad on it and if it had been Newgate , it would ha' been just the same . 
The only point on which he persevered in demanding an explanation , was , the name of Sam's detaining creditor but this Mr. Weller as perseveringly withheld . 
'Wery much obliged to you , sir , replied Mr. Weller gravely 'but I'd rayther not . 
'Rather not do what , Sam ? 'Wy , I'd rayther not let myself down to ask a favour o' this here unremorseful enemy . 
'But it is no favour asking him to take his money , Sam , reasoned Mr. Pickwick . 
'Beg your pardon , sir , rejoined Sam , 'but it 'ud be a wery great favour to pay it , and he don't deserve none that's where it is , sir . 
Here Mr. Pickwick , rubbing his nose with an air of some vexation , Mr. Weller thought it prudent to change the theme of the discourse . 
Mr. Weller paused when he arrived at this point , and cast a comical look at his master out of the corners of his eyes . 
'There is no of course in the case , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , gradually breaking into a smile , in spite of the uneasiness which Sam's obstinacy had given him . 
'The fame of the gentleman in question , never reached my ears . 
'No , sir ! exclaimed Mr. Weller . 
'You astonish me , Sir he wos a clerk in a gov'ment office , sir . 
'Was he ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
He had his hair cut on principle vunce a fortnight , and contracted for his clothes on the economic principle three suits a year , and send back the old uns . 
So uncommon grand with it too ! POST arter the next gen'l'm'n , he sings out ev'ry day ven he comes in . 
Wot's the matter ? says the doctor . 
Wery ill , says the patient . 
Wot have you been a eatin' on ? says the doctor . 
Roast weal , says the patient . 
Wot's the last thing you dewoured ? says the doctor . 
Crumpets , says the patient . 
That's it ! says the doctor . 
I'll send you a box of pills directly , and don't you never take no more of 'em , he says . 
No more o' wot ? says the patient pills ? No crumpets , says the doctor . 
Wy ? says the patient , starting up in bed I've eat four crumpets , ev'ry night for fifteen year , on principle . 
Well , then , you'd better leave 'em off , on principle , says the doctor . 
Crumpets is NOT wholesome , Sir , says the doctor , wery fierce . 
But they're so cheap , says the patient , comin' down a little , and so wery fillin' at the price . 
They'd be dear to you , at any price dear if you wos paid to eat 'em , says the doctor . 
How many crumpets , at a sittin' , do you think 'ud kill me off at once ? says the patient . 
I don't know , says the doctor . 
Do you think half a crown's wurth 'ud do it ? says the patient . 
I think it might , says the doctor . 
Three shillins' wurth 'ud be sure to do it , I s'pose ? says the patient . 
Certainly , says the doctor . 
Wery good , says the patient good night . 
Next mornin' he gets up , has a fire lit , orders in three shillins' wurth o' crumpets , toasts 'em all , eats 'em all , and blows his brains out . 
'What did he do that for ? inquired Mr. Pickwick abruptly for he was considerably startled by this tragical termination of the narrative . 
'Wot did he do it for , Sir ? reiterated Sam . 
'Do you always smoke arter you goes to bed , old cock ? inquired Mr. Weller of his landlord , when they had both retired for the night . 
'Yes , I does , young bantam , replied the cobbler . 
'Will you allow me to in quire wy you make up your bed under that 'ere deal table ? said Sam . 
''Cause I was always used to a four poster afore I came here , and I find the legs of the table answer just as well , replied the cobbler . 
'You're a character , sir , said Sam . 
He was a sallow man all cobblers are and had a strong bristly beard all cobblers have . 
The man was sixty , by years , and Heaven knows how old by imprisonment , so that his having any look approaching to mirth or contentment , was singular enough . 
He was a little man , and , being half doubled up as he lay in bed , looked about as long as he ought to have been without his legs . 
He had a great red pipe in his mouth , and was smoking , and staring at the rush light , in a state of enviable placidity . 
'Have you been here long ? inquired Sam , breaking the silence which had lasted for some time . 
'Twelve year , replied the cobbler , biting the end of his pipe as he spoke . 
'Wy don't you ? said Sam , urging his question strenuously . 
'Ah , said the cobbler , 'you don't quite understand these matters . 
'Well , perhaps , said Sam , 'you bought houses , wich is delicate English for goin' mad or took to buildin' , wich is a medical term for bein' incurable . 
The cobbler shook his head and said , 'Try again . 
'You didn't go to law , I hope ? said Sam suspiciously . 
'Never in my life , replied the cobbler . 
'The fact is , I was ruined by having money left me . 
'Come , come , said Sam , 'that von't do . 
I wish some rich enemy 'ud try to vork my destruction in that 'ere vay . 
'Oh , I dare say you don't believe it , said the cobbler , quietly smoking his pipe . 
'I wouldn't if I was you but it's true for all that . 
'How wos it ? inquired Sam , half induced to believe the fact already , by the look the cobbler gave him . 
'Where ? inquired Sam , who was growing sleepy after the numerous events of the day . 
'How should I know where he went ? said the cobbler , speaking through his nose in an intense enjoyment of his pipe . 
'Oh , that indeed , said Sam . 
'Well ? 'Well , said the cobbler , 'he left five thousand pound behind him . 
'And wery gen teel in him so to do , said Sam . 
'One of which , continued the cobbler , 'he left to me , 'cause I married his relation , you see . 
'Wery good , murmured Sam . 
'Wot do you mean by leavin' it on trust ? inquired Sam , waking up a little . 
'If it ain't ready money , were's the use on it ? 'It's a law term , that's all , said the cobbler . 
'I don't think that , said Sam , shaking his head . 
'There's wery little trust at that shop . 
'What's that ? inquired Sam . 
'A legal instrument , which is as much as to say , it's no go , replied the cobbler . 
'I see , said Sam , 'a sort of brother in law o' the have his carcass . 
I'd hardly done it , when one nevy brings an action to set the will aside . 
After that , we went into Chancery , where we are still , and where I shall always be . 
And this is God's truth , without one word of suppression or exaggeration , as fifty people , both in this place and out of it , very well know . 
'Dear me ! How very foolish of them , said Mr. Pickwick , rising . 
'Yes I have no doubt they are some friends whom I rather expected to see , yesterday . 
'Friends of yours ! exclaimed Smangle , seizing Mr. Pickwick by the hand . 
Curse me , they're friends of mine from this minute , and friends of Mivins's , too . 
Infernal pleasant , gentlemanly dog , Mivins , isn't he ? said Smangle , with great feeling . 
'I know so little of the gentleman , said Mr. Pickwick , hesitating , 'that I 'I know you do , interrupted Smangle , clasping Mr. Pickwick by the shoulder . 
'You shall know him better . 
You'll be delighted with him . 
That man , Sir , said Smangle , with a solemn countenance , 'has comic powers that would do honour to Drury Lane Theatre . 
'Has he indeed ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Ah , by Jove he has ! replied Smangle . 
'Hear him come the four cats in the wheel barrow four distinct cats , sir , I pledge you my honour . 
Now you know that's infernal clever ! Damme , you can't help liking a man , when you see these traits about him . 
He's only one fault that little failing I mentioned to you , you know . 
'Ah ! echoed Mr. Smangle , with a long drawn sigh . 
'He's delightful company , that man is , sir . 
I don't know better company anywhere but he has that one drawback . 
If the ghost of his grandfather , Sir , was to rise before him this minute , he'd ask him for the loan of his acceptance on an eightpenny stamp . 
'Dear me ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'I'll show 'em the way , said Smangle , making for the door . 
I won't disturb you while they're here , you know . 
The triumvirate were much affected . 
Mr. Tupman shook his head deploringly , Mr. Snodgrass drew forth his handkerchief , with undisguised emotion and Mr. Winkle retired to the window , and sniffed aloud . 
'Mornin' , gen'l'm'n , said Sam , entering at the moment with the shoes and gaiters . 
'Avay vith melincholly , as the little boy said ven his schoolmissus died . 
Velcome to the college , gen'l'm'n . 
'What ! exclaimed the three friends . 
'Yes , gen'l'm'n , said Sam , 'I'm a stand steady , sir , if you please I'm a prisoner , gen'l'm'n . 
Con fined , as the lady said . 
'A prisoner ! exclaimed Mr. Winkle , with unaccountable vehemence . 
'Hollo , sir ! responded Sam , looking up . 
'Wot's the matter , Sir ? 'I had hoped , Sam , that Nothing , nothing , said Mr. Winkle precipitately . 
There was something so very abrupt and unsettled in Mr. Winkle's manner , that Mr. Pickwick involuntarily looked at his two friends for an explanation . 
'We don't know , said Mr. Tupman , answering this mute appeal aloud . 
'He has been much excited for two days past , and his whole demeanour very unlike what it usually is . 
We feared there must be something the matter , but he resolutely denies it . 
'No , no , said Mr. Winkle , colouring beneath Mr. Pickwick's gaze 'there is really nothing . 
I assure you there is nothing , my dear sir . 
Mr. Pickwick looked more astonished than before . 
'I think , faltered Mr. Winkle , 'that Sam would have had no objection to do so but , of course , his being a prisoner here , renders it impossible . 
So I must go alone . 
As Mr. Winkle said these words , Mr. Pickwick felt , with some astonishment , that Sam's fingers were trembling at the gaiters , as if he were rather surprised or startled . 
Sam looked up at Mr. Winkle , too , when he had finished speaking and though the glance they exchanged was instantaneous , they seemed to understand each other . 
'Do you know anything of this , Sam ? said Mr. Pickwick sharply . 
'No , I don't , sir , replied Mr. Weller , beginning to button with extraordinary assiduity . 
'Are you sure , Sam ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Wy , sir , responded Mr. Weller 'I'm sure so far , that I've never heerd anythin' on the subject afore this moment . 
We have had quite enough of the subject . 
Thus expressing himself , Mr. Pickwick led the conversation to different topics , and Mr. Winkle gradually appeared more at ease , though still very far from being completely so . 
To these succeeded a bottle or two of very good wine , for which a messenger was despatched by Mr. Pickwick to the Horn Coffee house , in Doctors' Commons . 
'Good night , my dear Sir ! said Mr. Winkle between his set teeth . 
'Bless you , my dear fellow ! replied the warm hearted Mr. Pickwick , as he returned the pressure of his young friend's hand . 
'Now then ! cried Mr. Tupman from the gallery . 
'Yes , yes , directly , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'Good night ! 'Good night , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Is anything the matter ? said Mr. Pickwick at last , when his arm was quite sore with shaking . 
'Nothing , said Mr. Winkle . 
'Well then , good night , said Mr. Pickwick , attempting to disengage his hand . 
'My friend , my benefactor , my honoured companion , murmured Mr. Winkle , catching at his wrist . 
'Do not judge me harshly do not , when you hear that , driven to extremity by hopeless obstacles , I 'Now then , said Mr. Tupman , reappearing at the door . 
'Are you coming , or are we to be locked in ? 'Yes , yes , I am ready , replied Mr. Winkle . 
And with a violent effort he tore himself away . 
As Mr. Pickwick was gazing down the passage after them in silent astonishment , Sam Weller appeared at the stair head , and whispered for one moment in Mr. Winkle's ear . 
'Oh , certainly , depend upon me , said that gentleman aloud . 
You won't forget , sir ? said Sam . 
'Of course not , replied Mr. Winkle . 
'Wish you luck , Sir , said Sam , touching his hat . 
'I should very much liked to ha' joined you , Sir but the gov'nor , o' course , is paramount . 
'It is very much to your credit that you remain here , said Mr. Winkle . 
With these words they disappeared down the stairs . 
, Very extraordinary , said Mr. Pickwick , going back into his room , and seating himself at the table in a musing attitude . 
'By all means , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I've brought you a softer pillow , Sir , said Mr. Roker , 'instead of the temporary one you had last night . 
'Thank you , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Will you take a glass of wine ? 'You're wery good , Sir , replied Mr. Roker , accepting the proffered glass . 
'Thank you , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'What ! The Chancery prisoner ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'You make my blood run cold , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'What do you mean ? 'He's been consumptive for a long time past , said Mr. Roker , 'and he's taken wery bad in the breath to night . 
The doctor said , six months ago , that nothing but change of air could save him . 
'I suppose he'd have been took the same , wherever he was . 
It's not the warden's fault , you know , sir . 
'Of course not , replied Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
'I'm afraid , however , said Roker , shaking his head , 'that it's all up with him . 
I offered Neddy two six penn'orths to one upon it just now , but he wouldn't take it , and quite right . 
'Stay , said Mr. Pickwick earnestly . 
'Where is this infirmary ? 'Just over where you slept , sir , replied Roker . 
'I'll show you , if you like to come . 
Mr. Pickwick snatched up his hat without speaking , and followed at once . 
The turnkey led the way in silence and gently raising the latch of the room door , motioned Mr. Pickwick to enter . 
His breathing was hard and thick , and he moaned painfully as it came and went . 
At the bedside sat a short old man in a cobbler's apron , who , by the aid of a pair of horn spectacles , was reading from the Bible aloud . 
It was the fortunate legatee . 
The sick man laid his hand upon his attendant's arm , and motioned him to stop . 
He closed the book , and laid it on the bed . 
'Open the window , said the sick man . 
These are melancholy sounds to a quiet listener at any time but how melancholy to the watcher by the bed of death ! 'There is no air here , said the man faintly . 
It was fresh round about , when I walked there , years ago but it grows hot and heavy in passing these walls . 
'We have breathed it together , for a long time , said the old man . 
There was a short silence , during which the two spectators approached the bed . 
The sick man drew a hand of his old fellow prisoner towards him , and pressing it affectionately between both his own , retained it in his grasp . 
Twenty years , my friend , twenty years in this hideous grave ! My heart broke when my child died , and I could not even kiss him in his little coffin . 
My loneliness since then , in all this noise and riot , has been very dreadful . 
May God forgive me ! He has seen my solitary , lingering death . 
He folded his hands , and murmuring something more they could not hear , fell into a sleep only a sleep at first , for they saw him smile . 
They whispered together for a little time , and the turnkey , stooping over the pillow , drew hastily back . 
'He has got his discharge , by G ! said the man . 
But he had grown so like death in life , that they knew not when he died . 
CHAPTER XLIV DESCRIPTIVE OF AN AFFECTING INTERVIEW BETWEEN Mr. SAMUEL WELLER AND A FAMILY PARTY . 
Having arrived at this conclusion , he betook himself to the tap . 
He had hardly composed himself into the needful state of abstraction , when he thought he heard his own name proclaimed in some distant passage . 
'Just mind that 'ere paper and the pot , old feller , will you ? said Sam . 
Wot's the matter ? 'Aha ! replied the old gentleman , 'I began to be afeerd that you'd gone for a walk round the Regency Park , Sammy . 
'Come , said Sam , 'none o' them taunts agin the wictim o' avarice , and come off that 'ere step . 
Wot arc you a settin' down there for ? I don't live there . 
'I've got such a game for you , Sammy , said the elder Mr. Weller , rising . 
'Stop a minit , said Sam , 'you're all vite behind . 
'That's right , Sammy , rub it off , said Mr. Weller , as his son dusted him . 
'Keep quiet , do , said Sam , 'there never vos such a old picter card born . 
'Vell , then , wot do you do it for ? said Sam . 
Mr. Weller shook his head , and his red cheeks expanded with the laughter that was endeavouring to find a vent . 
'Mottled faced man , p'raps ? asked Sam . 
Again Mr. Weller shook his head . 
'Who then ? 'asked Sam . 
'Your mother in law , said Mr. Weller and it was lucky he did say it , or his cheeks must inevitably have cracked , from their most unnatural distension . 
'Your mother in law , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , 'and the red nosed man , my boy and the red nosed man . 
Ho ! ho ! ho ! With this , Mr. Weller launched into convulsions of laughter , while Sam regarded him with a broad grin gradually over spreading his whole countenance . 
'They've come to have a little serious talk with you , Samivel , said Mr. Weller , wiping his eyes . 
'Don't let out nothin' about the unnat'ral creditor , Sammy . 
'Wot , don't they know who it is ? inquired Sam . 
'Not a bit on it , replied his father . 
'Vere are they ? said Sam , reciprocating all the old gentleman's grins . 
'In the snuggery , rejoined Mr. Weller . 
'Catch the red nosed man a goin' anyvere but vere the liquors is not he , Samivel , not he . 
'You don't mean that ? said Sam . 
'Wot , I s'pose you happened to drive up agin a post or two ? said Sam . 
'It's only a kind o' quiet laugh as I'm a tryin' to come , Sammy . 
'Well , if that's wot it is , said Sam , 'you'd better not try to come it agin . 
You'll find it rayther a dangerous inwention . 
'Don't you like it , Sammy ? inquired the old gentleman . 
'Not at all , replied Sam . 
'Mother in law , said Sam , politely saluting the lady , 'wery much obliged to you for this here wisit . 
Shepherd , how air you ? 'Oh , Samuel ! said Mrs. Weller . 
'Not a bit on it , mum , replied Sam . 
'Is it , shepherd ? Mr. Stiggins raised his hands , and turned up his eyes , until the whites or rather the yellows were alone visible but made no reply in words . 
'Is this here gen'l'm'n troubled with any painful complaint ? said Sam , looking to his mother in law for explanation . 
'The good man is grieved to see you here , Samuel , replied Mrs. Weller . 
'Oh , that's it , is it ? said Sam . 
'I was afeerd , from his manner , that he might ha' forgotten to take pepper vith that 'ere last cowcumber he eat . 
Set down , Sir , ve make no extra charge for settin' down , as the king remarked wen he blowed up his ministers . 
'Young man , said Mr. Stiggins ostentatiously , 'I fear you are not softened by imprisonment . 
'Sir , replied Sam , 'you're wery kind to say so . 
I hope my natur is NOT a soft vun , Sir . 
Wery much obliged to you for your good opinion , Sir . 
'Wery much obleeged to you , my dear , replied Mr. Weller 'but I'm quite comfortable vere I am . 
Upon this , Mrs. Weller burst into tears . 
'Wot's gone wrong , mum ? said Sam . 
'Oh , Samuel ! replied Mrs. Weller , 'your father makes me wretched . 
Will nothing do him good ? 'Do you hear this here ? said Sam . 
'Lady vants to know vether nothin' 'ull do you good . 
'Wery much indebted to Mrs. Weller for her po lite inquiries , Sammy , replied the old gentleman . 
'I think a pipe vould benefit me a good deal . 
Could I be accommodated , Sammy ? Here Mrs. Weller let fall some more tears , and Mr. Stiggins groaned . 
'Hollo ! Here's this unfortunate gen'l'm'n took ill agin , said Sam , looking round . 
'Vere do you feel it now , sir ? 'In the same place , young man , rejoined Mr. Stiggins , 'in the same place . 
'Vere may that be , Sir ? inquired Sam , with great outward simplicity . 
'In the buzzim , young man , replied Mr. Stiggins , placing his umbrella on his waistcoat . 
'I'm afeered , mum , said Sam , 'that this here gen'l'm'n , with the twist in his countenance , feels rather thirsty , with the melancholy spectacle afore him . 
'I am afraid , Samuel , that his feelings have made him so indeed , said Mrs. Weller mournfully . 
'Wot's your usual tap , sir ? replied Sam . 
If , said Mr. Stiggins 'if there is any one of them less odious than another , it is the liquor called rum . 
Warm , my dear young friend , with three lumps of sugar to the tumbler . 
'Wery sorry to say , sir , said Sam , 'that they don't allow that particular wanity to be sold in this here establishment . 
'Oh , the hardness of heart of these inveterate men ! ejaculated Mr. Stiggins . 
It was accordingly ordered to be prepared , and pending its preparation the red nosed man and Mrs. Weller looked at the elder W. and groaned . 
'Well , Sammy , said the gentleman , 'I hope you'll find your spirits rose by this here lively wisit . 
Wery cheerful and improvin' conwersation , ain't it , Sammy ? 'You're a reprobate , replied Sam 'and I desire you won't address no more o' them ungraceful remarks to me . 
'Wot are you a reachin' out , your hand for the tumbler in that 'ere sawage way for ? said Sam , with great promptitude . 
'Don't you see you've hit the gen'l'm'n ? 'I didn't go to do it , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , in some degree abashed by the very unexpected occurrence of the incident . 
'Try an in'ard application , sir , said Sam , as the red nosed gentleman rubbed his head with a rueful visage . 
'Wot do you think o' that , for a go o' wanity , warm , Sir ? Mr. Stiggins made no verbal answer , but his manner was expressive . 
Nor was Mrs. Weller behind hand in doing justice to the composition . 
'Wot do you mean ? said Sam . 
'Pend upon it , Sammy , it's a constitootional infirmity . 
Which consideration , he said , could not but afford him the liveliest satisfaction . 
'I hope it may do you good , Samuel , said Mrs. Weller solemnly . 
'I think it vill , mum , replied Sam . 
'I wish I could hope that it would do your father good , said Mrs. Weller . 
'Thank'ee , my dear , said Mr. Weller , senior . 
'How do you find yourself arter it , my love ? 'Scoffer ! exclaimed Mrs. Weller . 
'Benighted man ! said the Reverend Mr. Stiggins . 
At this supposition , the Reverend Mr. Stiggins , in evident consternation , gathered up his hat and umbrella , and proposed an immediate departure , to which Mrs. Weller assented . 
Sam walked with them to the lodge gate , and took a dutiful leave . 
'A do , Samivel , said the old gentleman . 
'Wot's a do ? inquired Sammy . 
'Well , good bye , then , said the old gentleman . 
'Oh , that's wot you're aimin' at , is it ? said Sam . 
Me and a cab'net maker has dewised a plan for gettin' him out . 
A pianner , Samivel a pianner ! said Mr. Weller , striking his son on the chest with the back of his hand , and falling back a step or two . 
'Wot do you mean ? said Sam . 
'A pianner forty , Samivel , rejoined Mr. Weller , in a still more mysterious manner , 'as he can have on hire vun as von't play , Sammy . 
'And wot 'ud be the good o' that ? said Sam . 
'Let him send to my friend , the cabinet maker , to fetch it back , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Are you avake , now ? 'No , rejoined Sam . 
'There ain't no vurks in it , whispered his father . 
'It 'ull hold him easy , vith his hat and shoes on , and breathe through the legs , vich his holler . 
Have a passage ready taken for 'Merriker . 
The 'Merrikin gov'ment will never give him up , ven vunce they find as he's got money to spend , Sammy . 
, and then let him come back and write a book about the 'Merrikins as'll pay all his expenses and more , if he blows 'em up enough . 
Sam had scarcely recovered his usual composure of countenance , which had been greatly disturbed by the secret communication of his respected relative , when Mr. Pickwick accosted him . 
'Sam , said that gentleman . 
'Sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'I am going for a walk round the prison , and I wish you to attend me . 
I see a prisoner we know coming this way , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , smiling . 
'Wich , Sir ? inquired Mr. Weller 'the gen'l'm'n vith the head o' hair , or the interestin' captive in the stockin's ? 'Neither , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
'He is an older friend of yours , Sam . 
'O' mine , Sir ? exclaimed Mr. Weller . 
'You recollect the gentleman very well , I dare say , Sam , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'or else you are more unmindful of your old acquaintances than I think you are . 
Hush ! not a word , Sam not a syllable . 
As Mr. Pickwick spoke , Jingle walked up . 
He looked less miserable than before , being clad in a half worn suit of clothes , which , with Mr. Pickwick's assistance , had been released from the pawnbroker's . 
He wore clean linen too , and had had his hair cut . 
He took off his hat as Mr. Pickwick saluted him , and seemed much humbled and abashed at the sight of Sam Weller . 
Following close at his heels , came Mr. Job Trotter , in the catalogue of whose vices , want of faith and attachment to his companion could at all events find no place . 
He was still ragged and squalid , but his face was not quite so hollow as on his first meeting with Mr. Pickwick , a few days before . 
As he took off his hat to our benevolent old friend , he murmured some broken expressions of gratitude , and muttered something about having been saved from starving . 
'Well , well , said Mr. Pickwick , impatiently interrupting him , 'you can follow with Sam . 
I want to speak to you , Mr. Jingle . 
Can you walk without his arm ? 'Certainly , sir all ready not too fast legs shaky head queer round and round earthquaky sort of feeling very . 
'Here , give me your arm , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'No , no , replied Jingle 'won't indeed rather not . 
'Nonsense , said Mr. Pickwick 'lean upon me , I desire , Sir . 
During the whole of this time the countenance of Mr. Samuel Weller had exhibited an expression of the most overwhelming and absorbing astonishment that the imagination can portray . 
'Now , Sam ! said Mr. Pickwick , looking back . 
'I'm a comin' , sir , replied Mr. Weller , mechanically following his master and still he lifted not his eyes from Mr. Job Trotter , who walked at his side in silence . 
Job kept his eyes fixed on the ground for some time . 
'Things has altered with me , sir , said Job . 
'I should think they had , exclaimed Mr. Weller , surveying his companion's rags with undisguised wonder . 
'This is rayther a change for the worse , Mr. Trotter , as the gen'l'm'n said , wen he got two doubtful shillin's and sixpenn'orth o' pocket pieces for a good half crown . 
'It is indeed , replied Job , shaking his head . 
'There is no deception now , Mr. Weller . 
Tears , said Job , with a look of momentary slyness 'tears are not the only proofs of distress , nor the best ones . 
'No , they ain't , replied Sam expressively . 
'They may be put on , Mr. Weller , said Job . 
'I know they may , said Sam 'some people , indeed , has 'em always ready laid on , and can pull out the plug wenever they likes . 
'Yes , replied Job 'but these sort of things are not so easily counterfeited , Mr. Weller , and it is a more painful process to get them up . 
'Wot have you been a doin' to yourself ? said Sam , recoiling . 
'I have been doin' nothing for many weeks past , said Job and eating and drinking almost as little . 
Sam took one comprehensive glance at Mr. Trotter's thin face and wretched apparel and then , seizing him by the arm , commenced dragging him away with great violence . 
'Where are you going , Mr. Weller ? said Job , vainly struggling in the powerful grasp of his old enemy . 
'Come on , said Sam 'come on ! He deigned no further explanation till they reached the tap , and then called for a pot of porter , which was speedily produced . 
'Now , said Sam , 'drink that up , ev'ry drop on it , and then turn the pot upside down , to let me see as you've took the medicine . 
'But , my dear Mr. Weller , remonstrated Job . 
'Down vith it ! said Sam peremptorily . 
Thus admonished , Mr. Trotter raised the pot to his lips , and , by gentle and almost imperceptible degrees , tilted it into the air . 
Nothing fell upon the ground but a few particles of froth , which slowly detached themselves from the rim , and trickled lazily down . 
'Well done ! said Sam . 
'How do you find yourself arter it ? 'Better , Sir . 
I think I am better , responded Job . 
'O' course you air , said Sam argumentatively . 
'It's like puttin' gas in a balloon . 
I can see with the naked eye that you gets stouter under the operation . 
Wot do you say to another o' the same dimensions ? 'I would rather not , I am much obliged to you , Sir , replied Job 'much rather not . 
'Vell , then , wot do you say to some wittles ? inquired Sam . 
'Wot ! Has HE been a purwidin' for you ? asked Sam emphatically . 
'He has , Sir , replied Job . 
Mr. Weller , said Job , with real tears in his eyes , for once , 'I could serve that gentleman till I fell down dead at his feet . 
'I say ! said Sam , 'I'll trouble you , my friend ! None o' that ! Job Trotter looked amazed . 
'None o' that , I say , young feller , repeated Sam firmly . 
'No man serves him but me . 
And now we're upon it , I'll let you into another secret besides that , said Sam , as he paid for the beer . 
'Well , said Mr. Pickwick , as Sam and his companion drew nigh , 'you will see how your health becomes , and think about it meanwhile . 
Make the statement out for me when you feel yourself equal to the task , and I will discuss the subject with you when I have considered it . 
Now , go to your room . 
You are tired , and not strong enough to be out long . 
'Curious scene this , is it not , Sam ? said Mr. Pickwick , looking good humouredly round . 
'Wery much so , Sir , replied Sam . 
'Wonders 'ull never cease , added Sam , speaking to himself . 
The body ! It is the lawyer's term for the restless , whirling mass of cares and anxieties , affections , hopes , and griefs , that make up the living man . 
The law had his body and there it lay , clothed in grave clothes , an awful witness to its tender mercy . 
'Would you like to see a whistling shop , Sir ? inquired Job Trotter . 
'What do you mean ? was Mr. Pickwick's counter inquiry . 
'A vistlin' shop , Sir , interposed Mr. Weller . 
'What is that , Sam ? A bird fancier's ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Bless your heart , no , Sir , replied Job 'a whistling shop , Sir , is where they sell spirits . 
'This plan , you see , Sir , has been gradually introduced into all the prisons for debt , said Mr. Trotter . 
'Exactly so , Mr. Weller , observed Job . 
'Well , but are these rooms never searched to ascertain whether any spirits are concealed in them ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Cert'nly they are , Sir , replied Sam 'but the turnkeys knows beforehand , and gives the word to the wistlers , and you may wistle for it wen you go to look . 
'Any more ? said the whistling gentleman . 
'No more , replied Job Trotter . 
Mr. Pickwick paid , the door was unbolted , and out they came the uncombed gentleman bestowing a friendly nod upon Mr. Roker , who happened to be passing at the moment . 
From this spot , Mr. Pickwick wandered along all the galleries , up and down all the staircases , and once again round the whole area of the yard . 
There were the same squalor , the same turmoil and noise , the same general characteristics , in every corner in the best and the worst alike . 
The whole place seemed restless and troubled and the people were crowding and flitting to and fro , like the shadows in an uneasy dream . 
'I have seen enough , said Mr. Pickwick , as he threw himself into a chair in his little apartment . 
'My head aches with these scenes , and my heart too . 
Henceforth I will be a prisoner in my own room . 
And Mr. Pickwick steadfastly adhered to this determination . 
CHAPTER XLVI RECORDS A TOUCHING ACT OF DELICATE FEELING , NOT UNMIXED WITH PLEASANTRY , ACHIEVED AND PERFORMED BY Messrs . 
'Stop at the house with a green door , driver , said the heavy gentleman . 
'Oh ! You perwerse creetur ! exclaimed one of the vixenish ladies . 
'Drive to the 'ouse with the yellow door , cabmin . 
'Now vere am I to pull up ? inquired the driver . 
'Most wotes carries the day ! said one of the vixenish ladies at length . 
'The 'ouse with the yellow door , cabman . 
'Aggrawatin' thing ! said the vixenish lady last mentioned , darting a withering glance at the heavy gentleman . 
'My dear , it's not my fault , said the gentleman . 
'Don't talk to me , you creetur , don't , retorted the lady . 
'The house with the red door , cabmin . 
'What have I been a doing of ? asked Mr. Raddle . 
'Don't talk to me , don't , you brute , for fear I should be perwoked to forgit my sect and strike you ! said Mrs. Raddle . 
'Well , Tommy , said Mrs. Cluppins , 'how's your poor dear mother ? 'Oh , she's very well , replied Master Bardell . 
'She's in the front parlour , all ready . 
I'm ready too , I am . 
Here Master Bardell put his hands in his pockets , and jumped off and on the bottom step of the door . 
'Is anybody else a goin' , Tommy ? said Mrs. Cluppins , arranging her pelerine . 
Sanders is going , she is , replied Tommy 'I'm going too , I am . 
'Drat the boy , said little Mrs. Cluppins . 
'He thinks of nobody but himself . 
Here , Tommy , dear . 
'Well , said Master Bardell . 
'Who else is a goin' , lovey ? said Mrs. Cluppins , in an insinuating manner . 
'Oh ! Mrs. Rogers is a goin' , replied Master Bardell , opening his eyes very wide as he delivered the intelligence . 
'What ? The lady as has taken the lodgings ! ejaculated Mrs. Cluppins . 
Master Bardell put his hands deeper down into his pockets , and nodded exactly thirty five times , to imply that it was the lady lodger , and no other . 
'Bless us ! said Mrs. Cluppins . 
'It's quite a party ! 'Ah , if you knew what was in the cupboard , you'd say so , replied Master Bardell . 
'What is there , Tommy ? said Mrs. Cluppins coaxingly . 
'You'll tell ME , Tommy , I know . 
'No , I won't , replied Master Bardell , shaking his head , and applying himself to the bottom step again . 
'Drat the child ! muttered Mrs. Cluppins . 
'What a prowokin' little wretch it is ! Come , Tommy , tell your dear Cluppy . 
'Mother said I wasn't to , rejoined Master Bardell , 'I'm a goin' to have some , I am . 
Cheered by this prospect , the precocious boy applied himself to his infantile treadmill , with increased vigour . 
'Lauk , Mary Ann ! what's the matter ? said Mrs. Cluppins . 
'It's put me all over in such a tremble , Betsy , replied Mrs. Raddle . 
'Raddle ain't like a man he leaves everythink to me . 
This was scarcely fair upon the unfortunate Mr. Raddle , who had been thrust aside by his good lady in the commencement of the dispute , and peremptorily commanded to hold his tongue . 
'Ah , poor thing ! said Mrs. Rogers , 'I know what her feelin's is , too well . 
Even the lodger's little servant , who was thirteen years old and three feet high , murmured her sympathy . 
'But what's been the matter ? said Mrs. Bardell . 
'Ah , what has decomposed you , ma'am ? inquired Mrs. Rogers . 
'I have been a good deal flurried , replied Mrs. Raddle , in a reproachful manner . 
Thereupon the ladies cast indignant glances at Mr. Raddle . 
'You'd better leave us to bring her round , Raddle , said Mrs. Cluppins . 
'She'll never get better as long as you're here . 
All the ladies concurred in this opinion so Mr. Raddle was pushed out of the room , and requested to give himself an airing in the back yard . 
All this , Mr. Raddle heard with great submission , and presently returned to the parlour in a most lamb like manner . 
'Why , Mrs. Rogers , ma'am , said Mrs. Bardell , 'you've never been introduced , I declare ! Mr. Raddle , ma'am Mrs. Cluppins , ma'am Mrs. Raddle , ma'am . 
'Which is Mrs. Cluppins's sister , suggested Mrs. Sanders . 
A compliment which the last named lady acknowledged with graceful condescension . 
Don't you think he ought , Mrs. Rogers , ma'am ? 'Oh , certainly , ma'am , replied Mrs. Rogers after whom all the other ladies responded , 'Oh , certainly . 
'Of course I feel it , ma'am , said Mr. Raddle , rubbing his hands , and evincing a slight tendency to brighten up a little . 
, the party walked forth in quest of a Hampstead stage . 
'How sweet the country is , to be sure ! sighed Mrs. Rogers 'I almost wish I lived in it always . 
'Oh ! I should think you was a deal too lively and sought after , to be content with the country , ma'am , said little Mrs. Cluppins . 
'Perhaps I am , ma'am . 
Perhaps I am , sighed the first floor lodger . 
The country for a wounded spirit , they say . 
Now , of all things in the world that the unfortunate man could have said , any would have been preferable to this . 
Of course Mrs. Bardell burst into tears , and requested to be led from the table instantly upon which the affectionate child began to cry too , most dismally . 
'You didn't mean ! repeated Mrs. Raddle , with great scorn and contempt . 
I can't bear the sight on you , you brute . 
'You must not flurry yourself , Mary Ann , interposed Mrs. Cluppins . 
'You really must consider yourself , my dear , which you never do . 
Now go away , Raddle , there's a good soul , or you'll only aggravate her . 
'You had better take your tea by yourself , Sir , indeed , said Mrs. Rogers , again applying the smelling bottle . 
Mrs. Sanders , who , according to custom , was very busy with the bread and butter , expressed the same opinion , and Mr. Raddle quietly retired . 
It was at this moment , that the sound of approaching wheels was heard , and that the ladies , looking up , saw a hackney coach stop at the garden gate . 
'More company ! said Mrs. Sanders . 
'It's a gentleman , said Mrs. Raddle . 
'Well , if it ain't Mr. Jackson , the young man from Dodson and Fogg's ! cried Mrs. Bardell . 
'Why , gracious ! Surely Mr. Pickwick can't have paid the damages . 
'Or hoffered marriage ! said Mrs. Cluppins . 
'Dear me , how slow the gentleman is , 'exclaimed Mrs. Rogers . 
'Is anything the matter ? Has anything taken place , Mr. Jackson ? said Mrs. Bardell eagerly . 
'Nothing whatever , ma'am , replied Mr. Jackson . 
'How de do , ladies ? I have to ask pardon , ladies , for intruding but the law , ladies the law . 
With this apology Mr. Jackson smiled , made a comprehensive bow , and gave his hair another wind . 
Mrs. Rogers whispered Mrs. Raddle that he was really an elegant young man . 
'I called in Goswell Street , resumed Mr. Jackson , 'and hearing that you were here , from the slavey , took a coach and came on . 
Our people want you down in the city directly , Mrs. Bardell . 
'Lor ! ejaculated that lady , starting at the sudden nature of the communication . 
'Yes , said Mr. Jackson , biting his lip . 
'It's very important and pressing business , which can't be postponed on any account . 
Indeed , Dodson expressly said so to me , and so did Fogg . 
I've kept the coach on purpose for you to go back in . 
'How very strange ! exclaimed Mrs. Bardell . 
She simpered a little , affected extreme vexation and hesitation , and at last arrived at the conclusion that she supposed she must go . 
'But won't you refresh yourself after your walk , Mr. Jackson ? said Mrs. Bardell persuasively . 
'Why , really there ain't much time to lose , replied Jackson 'and I've got a friend here , he continued , looking towards the man with the ash stick . 
'Oh , ask your friend to come here , Sir , said Mrs. Bardell . 
'Pray ask your friend here , Sir . 
'Why , thank'ee , I'd rather not , said Mr. Jackson , with some embarrassment of manner . 
'He's not much used to ladies' society , and it makes him bashful . 
The waiter was at once despatched to the bashful gentleman , and the bashful gentleman took something Mr. Jackson also took something , and the ladies took something , for hospitality's sake . 
, got into the coach . 
'Isaac , said Jackson , as Mrs. Bardell prepared to get in , looking up at the man with the ash stick , who was seated on the box , smoking a cigar . 
'Well ? 'This is Mrs. Bardell . 
'Oh , I know'd that long ago , said the man . 
Mrs. Bardell got in , Mr. Jackson got in after her , and away they drove . 
Mrs. Bardell could not help ruminating on what Mr. Jackson's friend had said . 
Shrewd creatures , those lawyers . 
'I'm very sorry they can't get them , replied Mrs. Bardell . 
'But if you law gentlemen do these things on speculation , why you must get a loss now and then , you know . 
'You gave them a COGNOVIT for the amount of your costs , after the trial , I'm told ! said Jackson . 
Just as a matter of form , replied Mrs. Bardell . 
'Certainly , replied Jackson drily . 
'Quite a matter of form . 
On they drove , and Mrs. Bardell fell asleep . 
She was awakened , after some time , by the stopping of the coach . 
'Bless us ! said the lady . 
'Are we at Freeman's Court ? 'We're not going quite so far , replied Jackson . 
'Have the goodness to step out . 
Mrs. Bardell , not yet thoroughly awake , complied . 
It was a curious place a large wall , with a gate in the middle , and a gas light burning inside . 
Mrs. Bardell , leaning on Jackson's arm , and leading Tommy by the hand , had already entered the porch . 
The room they turned into was even more odd looking than the porch . 
Such a number of men standing about ! And they stared so ! 'What place is this ? inquired Mrs. Bardell , pausing . 
'Only one of our public offices , replied Jackson , hurrying her through a door , and looking round to see that the other women were following . 
'Look sharp , Isaac ! 'Safe and sound , replied the man with the ash stick . 
The door swung heavily after them , and they descended a small flight of steps . 
'Here we are at last . 
All right and tight , Mrs. Bardell ! said Jackson , looking exultingly round . 
'What do you mean ? said Mrs. Bardell , with a palpitating heart . 
'Just this , replied Jackson , drawing her a little on one side 'don't be frightened , Mrs. Bardell . 
There never was a more delicate man than Dodson , ma'am , or a more humane man than Fogg . 
It was their duty in the way of business , to take you in execution for them costs but they were anxious to spare your feelings as much as they could . 
What a comfort it must be , to you , to think how it's been done ! This is the Fleet , ma'am . 
Wish you good night , Mrs. Bardell . 
Mrs. Bardell screamed violently Tommy roared Mrs. Cluppins shrunk within herself and Mrs. Sanders made off , without more ado . 
'Don't bother the woman , said the turnkey to Weller 'she's just come in . 
'A prisoner ! said Sam , quickly replacing his hat . 
'Who's the plaintives ? What for ? Speak up , old feller . 
'Dodson and Fogg , replied the man 'execution on COGNOVIT for costs . 
'Here , Job , Job ! shouted Sam , dashing into the passage . 
'Run to Mr. Perker's , Job . 
I see some good in this . 
'There , said Lowten , 'it's too late now . 
You can't get in to night you've got the key of the street , my friend . 
'Never mind me , replied Job . 
Summoning the cab of most promising appearance , he directed the driver to repair to Montague Place , Russell Square . 
'This is a messenger from Mr. Pickwick , Sir . 
'From Pickwick , eh ? said the little man , turning quickly to Job . 
'Well , what is it ? 'Dodson and Fogg have taken Mrs. Bardell in execution for her costs , Sir , said Job . 
'No ! exclaimed Perker , putting his hands in his pockets , and reclining against the sideboard . 
'It seems they got a cognovit out of her , for the amount of 'em , directly after the trial . 
'There's no knowing where to have them . 
When they had in some measure recovered from their trance of admiration , Job Trotter discharged himself of the rest of his commission . 
Perker nodded his head thoughtfully , and pulled out his watch . 
'At ten precisely , I will be there , said the little man . 
Will you take a glass of wine , Lowten ? 'No , thank you , Sir . 
'You mean yes , I think , said the little man , turning to the sideboard for a decanter and glasses . 
The wine being by this time poured out , Lowten drank to Mrs. Perker and the children , and Job to Perker . 
The attorney betook himself to his drawing room , the clerk to the Magpie and Stump , and Job to Covent Garden Market to spend the night in a vegetable basket . 
Punctually at the appointed hour next morning , the good humoured little attorney tapped at Mr. Pickwick's door , which was opened with great alacrity by Sam Weller . 
Perker , sir , said Sam , announcing the visitor to Mr. Pickwick , who was sitting at the window in a thoughtful attitude . 
'Wery glad you've looked in accidentally , Sir . 
I rather think the gov'nor wants to have a word and a half with you , Sir . 
'You don't mean that 'ere , Sir ? said Sam , starting back in excessive surprise . 
'What does this mean ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , looking at Perker with astonishment . 
'What has put Sam into this extraordinary state ? 'Oh , nothing , nothing , replied Perker . 
'Come , my dear Sir , draw up your chair to the table . 
I have a good deal to say to you . 
'What papers are those ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , as the little man deposited on the table a small bundle of documents tied with red tape . 
'The papers in Bardell and Pickwick , replied Perker , undoing the knot with his teeth . 
'You don't like to hear the name of the cause ? said the little man , still busying himself with the knot . 
'No , I do not indeed , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Sorry for that , resumed Perker , 'because it will form the subject of our conversation . 
'I would rather that the subject should be never mentioned between us , Perker , interposed Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
'Pooh , pooh , my dear Sir , said the little man , untying the bundle , and glancing eagerly at Mr. Pickwick out of the corners of his eyes . 
I have come here on purpose . 
Now , are you ready to hear what I have to say , my dear Sir ? No hurry if you are not , I can wait . 
I have this morning's paper here . 
Your time shall be mine . 
There ! Hereupon , the little man threw one leg over the other , and made a show of beginning to read with great composure and application . 
'Well , well , said Mr. Pickwick , with a sigh , but softening into a smile at the same time . 
Bardell , the plaintiff in the action , is within these walls , Sir . 
'I know it , was Mr. Pickwick's reply , 'Very good , retorted Perker . 
'Sam's account of the matter , replied Perker , 'is , I will venture to say , a perfectly correct one . 
Well now , my dear Sir , the first question I have to ask , is , whether this woman is to remain here ? 'To remain here ! echoed Mr. Pickwick . 
'To remain here , my dear Sir , rejoined Perker , leaning back in his chair and looking steadily at his client . 
'How can you ask me ? said that gentleman . 
'It rests with Dodson and Fogg you know that very well . 
'I know nothing of the kind , retorted Perker firmly . 
'It does NOT rest with Dodson and Fogg you know the men , my dear Sir , as well as I do . 
It rests solely , wholly , and entirely with you . 
'With me ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick , rising nervously from his chair , and reseating himself directly afterwards . 
Now pray be quiet , my dear sir . 
Perker , strengthening his argumentative powers with another pinch of snuff , proceeded 'I have seen the woman , this morning . 
'If I pay her costs for her , said Mr. Pickwick indignantly . 
'A valuable document , indeed ! 'No if in the case , my dear Sir , said Perker triumphantly . 
'There is the very letter I speak of . 
Brought to my office by another woman at nine o'clock this morning , before I had set foot in this place , or held any communication with Mrs. Bardell , upon my honour . 
Selecting the letter from the bundle , the little lawyer laid it at Mr. Pickwick's elbow , and took snuff for two consecutive minutes , without winking . 
'Is this all you have to say to me ? inquired Mr. Pickwick mildly . 
'Not quite , replied Perker . 
I fear not , my dear Sir they are too clever for that , I doubt . 
I do mean to say , however , that the whole facts , taken together , will be sufficient to justify you , in the minds of all reasonable men . 
And now , my dear Sir , I put it to you . 
This one hundred and fifty pounds , or whatever it may be take it in round numbers is nothing to you . 
A jury had decided against you well , their verdict is wrong , but still they decided as they thought right , and it IS against you . 
Turn them over in your mind as long as you please . 
I wait here most patiently for your answer . 
'I can't speak to you just now , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I am engaged at this moment , Sam . 
'Beg your pardon , Sir , rejoined Mr. Weller . 
'But here's a lady here , Sir , as says she's somethin' wery partickler to disclose . 
'I can't see any lady , replied Mr. Pickwick , whose mind was filled with visions of Mrs. Bardell . 
'I wouldn't make too sure o' that , Sir , urged Mr. Weller , shaking his head . 
'Who is it ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Will you see her , Sir ? asked Mr. Weller , holding the door in his hand as if he had some curious live animal on the other side . 
'I suppose I must , said Mr. Pickwick , looking at Perker . 
'Well then , all in to begin ! cried Sam . 
'Sound the gong , draw up the curtain , and enter the two conspiraytors . 
'Miss Arabella Allen ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , rising from his chair . 
'No , replied Mr. Winkle , dropping on his knees . 
'Oh , Mr. Pickwick ! said Arabella , in a low voice , as if alarmed at the silence . 
'Why , my dear girl , said Mr. Pickwick , 'how has all this come about ? Come ! Sit down , and let me hear it all . 
'Delightful , my dear Sir , replied the little man . 
'If I were not a married man myself , I should be disposed to envy you , you dog . 
'I can never be grateful enough to you , Sam , I am sure , said Arabella , with the sweetest smile imaginable . 
'I shall not forget your exertions in the garden at Clifton . 
'Don't say nothin' wotever about it , ma'am , replied Sam . 
'I only assisted natur , ma'am as the doctor said to the boy's mother , after he'd bled him to death . 
'Mary , my dear , sit down , said Mr. Pickwick , cutting short these compliments . 
'Now then how long have you been married , eh ? Arabella looked bashfully at her lord and master , who replied , 'Only three days . 
'Only three days , eh ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , what have you been doing these three months ? 'Ah , to be sure ! interposed Perker 'come , account for this idleness . 
You see Mr. Pickwick's only astonishment is , that it wasn't all over , months ago . 
'Why the fact is , replied Mr. Winkle , looking at his blushing young wife , 'that I could not persuade Bella to run away , for a long time . 
And when I had persuaded her , it was a long time more before we could find an opportunity . 
Mary had to give a month's warning , too , before she could leave her place next door , and we couldn't possibly have done it without her assistance . 
And is your brother acquainted with all this , my dear ? 'Oh , no , no , replied Arabella , changing colour . 
'Dear Mr. Pickwick , he must only know it from you from your lips alone . 
'Ah , to be sure , said Perker gravely . 
'You must take this matter in hand for them , my dear sir . 
These young men will respect you , when they would listen to nobody else . 
You must prevent mischief , my dear Sir . 
Hot blood , hot blood . 
And the little man took a warning pinch , and shook his head doubtfully . 
'You forget , my love , said Mr. Pickwick gently , 'you forget that I am a prisoner . 
'No , indeed I do not , my dear Sir , replied Arabella . 
'I never have forgotten it . 
I have never ceased to think how great your sufferings must have been in this shocking place . 
But I hoped that what no consideration for yourself would induce you to do , a regard to our happiness might . 
If my brother hears of this , first , from you , I feel certain we shall be reconciled . 
He is my only relation in the world , Mr. Pickwick , and unless you plead for me , I fear I have lost even him . 
I have done wrong , very , very wrong , I know . 
'Here poor Arabella hid her face in her handkerchief , and wept bitterly . 
He turned here , to look about him , and his eye lightened as he did so . 
In all the crowd of wan , emaciated faces , he saw not one which was not happier for his sympathy and charity . 
'Perker , said Mr. Pickwick , beckoning one young man towards him , 'this is Mr. Jingle , whom I spoke to you about . 
'Very good , my dear Sir , replied Perker , looking hard at Jingle . 
'You will see me again , young man , to morrow . 
I hope you may live to remember and feel deeply , what I shall have to communicate , Sir . 
Jingle bowed respectfully , trembled very much as he took Mr. Pickwick's proffered hand , and withdrew . 
'Job you know , I think ? said Mr. Pickwick , presenting that gentleman . 
'I know the rascal , replied Perker good humouredly . 
'See after your friend , and be in the way to morrow at one . 
Do you hear ? Now , is there anything more ? 'Nothing , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
'You have delivered the little parcel I gave you for your old landlord , Sam ? 'I have , Sir , replied Sam . 
'Poor fellow , poor fellow ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'God bless you , my friends ! As Mr. Pickwick uttered this adieu , the crowd raised a loud shout . 
'Sir , called out Mr. Weller to his master . 
'Well , Sam , replied Mr. Pickwick , thrusting his head out of the window . 
'I wish them horses had been three months and better in the Fleet , Sir . 
'Why , Sam ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Which , I think , observed Mr. Bob Sawyer , pursuing the thread of the subject 'which , I think , Ben , are rather dubious . 
'What's rather dubious ? inquired Mr. Ben Allen , at the same time sharpening his intellect with a draught of beer . 
'What's dubious ? 'Why , the chances , responded Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'I forgot , said Mr. Ben Allen . 
'The beer has reminded me that I forgot , Bob yes they ARE dubious . 
'It's wonderful how the poor people patronise me , said Mr. Bob Sawyer reflectively . 
'Oh , very , replied Bob 'only not quite so much so as the confidence of patients with a shilling or two to spare would be . 
This business was capitally described in the advertisement , Ben . 
It is a practice , a very extensive practice and that's all . 
'Bob , said Mr. Ben Allen , laying down his knife and fork , and fixing his eyes on the visage of his friend , 'Bob , I'll tell you what it is . 
'What is it ? inquired Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'You must make yourself , with as little delay as possible , master of Arabella's one thousand pounds . 
consolidated bank annuities , now standing in her name in the book or books of the governor and company of the Bank of England , added Bob Sawyer , in legal phraseology . 
'Exactly so , said Ben . 
'She has it when she comes of age , or marries . 
She wants a year of coming of age , and if you plucked up a spirit she needn't want a month of being married . 
'She's a very charming and delightful creature , quoth Mr. Robert Sawyer , in reply 'and has only one fault that I know of , Ben . 
It happens , unfortunately , that that single blemish is a want of taste . 
'It's my opinion that she don't know what she does like , said Mr. Ben Allen contemptuously . 
'Perhaps not , remarked Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'But it's my opinion that she does know what she doesn't like , and that's of more importance . 
I think I should assassinate him , Bob . 
'If that didn't do his business , I'd extract it afterwards , and kill him that way . 
Mr. Benjamin Allen gazed abstractedly on his friend for some minutes in silence , and then said 'You have never proposed to her , point blank , Bob ? 'No . 
Because I saw it would be of no use , replied Mr. Robert Sawyer . 
'You shall do it , before you are twenty four hours older , retorted Ben , with desperate calmness . 
'She shall have you , or I'll know the reason why . 
'Well , said Mr. Bob Sawyer , 'we shall see . 
'We shall see , my friend , replied Mr. Ben Allen fiercely . 
He paused for a few seconds , and added in a voice broken by emotion , 'You have loved her from a child , my friend . 
You loved her when we were boys at school together , and , even then , she was wayward and slighted your young feelings . 
'She slighted that , I think ? said Ben Allen . 
'She did , rejoined Bob . 
'She said I had kept the parcel so long in the pockets of my corduroys , that the apple was unpleasantly warm . 
'I remember , said Mr. Allen gloomily . 
'Upon which we ate it ourselves , in alternate bites . 
Bob Sawyer intimated his recollection of the circumstance last alluded to , by a melancholy frown and the two friends remained for some time absorbed , each in his own meditations . 
Such appearances are common to many vehicles belonging to , and maintained by , old ladies of economic habits and in this vehicle sat an old lady who was its mistress and proprietor . 
'Martin ! said the old lady , calling to the surly man , out of the front window . 
'Well ? said the surly man , touching his hat to the old lady . 
Sawyer's , said the old lady . 
'I was going there , said the surly man . 
'Martin ! said the old lady , when the fly stopped at the door of Mr. Robert Sawyer , late Nockemorf . 
'Ask the lad to step out , and mind the horse . 
'I'm going to mind the horse myself , said Martin , laying his whip on the roof of the fly . 
'I can't permit it , on any account , said the old lady 'your testimony will be very important , and I must take you into the house with me . 
You must not stir from my side during the whole interview . 
Do you hear ? 'I hear , replied Martin . 
'Well what are you stopping for ? 'Nothing , replied Martin . 
'Dear me ! exclaimed the old lady . 
'I am so flurried , now I have got here , Martin , that I'm all in a tremble . 
Mr. Martin coughed behind the dark wash leather gloves , but expressed no sympathy so the old lady , composing herself , trotted up Mr. Bob Sawyer's steps , and Mr. Martin followed . 
'Bob , said Mr. Allen , 'will you take my aunt into the surgery ? 'Certainly , responded Bob , in a most professional voice . 
'Step this way , my dear ma'am . 
Don't be frightened , ma'am . 
We shall be able to set you to rights in a very short time , I have no doubt , ma'am . 
Here , my dear ma'am . 
The first thing the old lady did , was to shake her head a great many times , and began to cry . 
'Nervous , said Bob Sawyer complacently . 
'Camphor julep and water three times a day , and composing draught at night . 
'I don't know how to begin , Mr. Sawyer , said the old lady . 
'It is so very painful and distressing . 
'You need not begin , ma'am , rejoined Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'I can anticipate all you would say . 
The head is in fault . 
'I should be very sorry to think it was the heart , said the old lady , with a slight groan . 
'Not the slightest danger of that , ma'am , replied Bob Sawyer . 
'The stomach is the primary cause . 
Sawyer ! exclaimed the old lady , starting . 
'Not the least doubt of it , ma'am , rejoined Bob , looking wondrous wise . 
'Medicine , in time , my dear ma'am , would have prevented it all . 
If it had been in the power of medicine , or any foresight I could have used , to prevent what has occurred , I should certainly have done so . 
I had better see my nephew at once , said the old lady , twirling her reticule indignantly , and rising as she spoke . 
'Stop a moment , ma'am , said Bob Sawyer 'I'm afraid I have not understood you . 
What IS the matter , ma'am ? 'My niece , Mr. Sawyer , said the old lady 'your friend's sister . 
'Yes , ma'am , said Bob , all impatience for the old lady , although much agitated , spoke with the most tantalising deliberation , as old ladies often do . 
'Oh , devil take the laburnum tree , ma'am ! said Bob , quite forgetting his professional dignity in his anxiety . 
'Get on a little faster put a little more steam on , ma'am , pray . 
'This morning , said the old lady slowly 'this morning , she 'She came back , ma'am , I suppose , said Bob , with great animation . 
'Did she come back ? 'No , she did not she wrote , replied the old lady . 
'What did she say ? inquired Bob eagerly . 
'What ! said , or rather shouted , Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'Married , repeated the old lady . 
This intention , with a promptitude often the effect of desperation , he at once commenced carrying into execution , with much vigour and surgical skill . 
As that gentleman had his hands entangled in his cravat , he had no alternative but to follow him to the floor . 
So , without presuming to interfere , Sam stood perfectly still , and looked on , as if he were mightily interested in the result of the then pending experiment . 
Not so , Mr. Pickwick . 
He at once threw himself on the astonished combatants , with his accustomed energy , and loudly called upon the bystanders to interpose . 
This roused Mr. Bob Sawyer , who had been hitherto quite paralysed by the frenzy of his companion . 
With that gentleman's assistance , Mr. Pickwick raised Ben Allen to his feet . 
Mr. Martin finding himself alone on the floor , got up , and looked about him . 
Allen , said Mr. Pickwick , 'what is the matter , Sir ? 'Never mind , Sir ! replied Mr. Allen , with haughty defiance . 
'What is it ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , looking at Bob Sawyer . 
'Oh , is that all ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'We shall easily arrange that matter , I hope . 
Here's a wenerable old lady a lyin' on the carpet waitin' for dissection , or galwinism , or some other rewivin' and scientific inwention . 
'I forgot , exclaimed Mr. Ben Allen . 
'Dear me ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Poor lady ! Gently Sam , gently . 
'Strange sitivation for one o' the family , observed Sam Weller , hoisting the aunt into a chair . 
This reminded Mr. Bob Sawyer that the boy in gray was looking on , with eyes wide open , and greedy ears . 
The incipient chemist having been lifted up by his coat collar , and dropped outside the door , Bob Sawyer assured Mr. Pickwick that he might speak without reserve . 
'Your sister , my dear Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , turning to Benjamin Allen , 'is in London well and happy . 
'Her happiness is no object to me , sir , said Benjamin Allen , with a flourish of the hand . 
'Her husband IS an object to ME , Sir , said Bob Sawyer . 
'What ! said Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'His name ! cried Ben Allen . 
Nathaniel Winkle , said Mr , Pickwick . 
'Then it's you , is it , Sir , who have encouraged and brought about this match ? inquired Mr. Benjamin Allen at length . 
'And it's this gentleman's servant , I suppose , interrupted the old lady , 'who has been skulking about my house , and endeavouring to entrap my servants to conspire against their mistress . 
Martin ! 'Well ? said the surly man , coming forward . 
'Explain it , sir ! cried Bob Sawyer fiercely . 
'It's a conspiracy , said Ben Allen . 
'A regular plant , added Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'A disgraceful imposition , observed the old lady . 
'Nothing but a do , remarked Martin . 
'Pray hear me , urged Mr. Pickwick , as Mr. Ben Allen fell into a chair that patients were bled in , and gave way to his pocket handkerchief . 
Though , mind , added Mr. Pickwick , hastily checking himself 'mind , I do not say I should have prevented it , if I had known that it was intended . 
'You hear that , all of you you hear that ? said Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'That has nothing whatever to do with the matter , Sam , interposed Mr. Pickwick . 
'I ain't a goin' to say nothin' on that 'ere pint , sir , replied Sam , 'but merely this here . 
Nobody's cut him out , and it 'ud ha' been jist the wery same for him if the young lady had never seen Mr. Vinkle . 
That's what I wished to say , sir , and I hope I've now made that 'ere gen'l'm'n's mind easy . 
A short pause followed these consolatory remarks of Mr. Weller . 
'And now , said Bob Sawyer , rubbing his hands , 'we'll have a jolly night . 
'I am sorry , said Mr. Pickwick , 'that I must return to my inn . 
I have not been accustomed to fatigue lately , and my journey has tired me exceedingly . 
'You'll take some tea , Mr. Pickwick ? said the old lady , with irresistible sweetness . 
'Thank you , I would rather not , replied that gentleman . 
The truth is , that the old lady's evidently increasing admiration was Mr. Pickwick's principal inducement for going away . 
He thought of Mrs. Bardell and every glance of the old lady's eyes threw him into a cold perspiration . 
He then took his leave , and , followed by Samuel Weller , repaired to the Bush . 
'Shall I order a private room , Sir ? inquired Sam , when they reached the Bush . 
'Why , no , Sam , replied Mr. Pickwick 'as I dined in the coffee room , and shall go to bed soon , it is hardly worth while . 
See who there is in the travellers' room , Sam . 
'I will join them , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'He's a queer customer , the vun eyed vun , sir , observed Mr. Weller , as he led the way . 
'He's a gammonin' that 'ere landlord , he is , sir , till he don't rightly know wether he's a standing on the soles of his boots or the crown of his hat . 
'Servant , sir , said the one eyed man to Mr. Pickwick . 
'Very much so indeed , replied Mr. Pickwick , as the waiter placed a small decanter of brandy , and some hot water before him . 
'I don't recollect you , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
'I dare say not , said the one eyed man . 
'You didn't know me , but I knew two friends of yours that were stopping at the Peacock at Eatanswill , at the time of the election . 
'Oh , indeed ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Yes , rejoined the one eyed man . 
'I mentioned a little circumstance to them about a friend of mine of the name of Tom Smart . 
Perhaps you've heard them speak of it . 
'Often , rejoined Mr. Pickwick , smiling . 
'He was your uncle , I think ? 'No , no only a friend of my uncle's , replied the one eyed man . 
'He was a wonderful man , that uncle of yours , though , remarked the landlord shaking his head . 
'Well , I think he was I think I may say he was , answered the one eyed man . 
'I could tell you a story about that same uncle , gentlemen , that would rather surprise you . 
'Could you ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Let us hear it , by all means . 
CHAPTER XLIX CONTAINING THE STORY OF THE BAGMAN'S UNCLE 'My uncle , gentlemen , said the bagman , 'was one of the merriest , pleasantest , cleverest fellows , that ever lived . 
I wish you had known him , gentlemen . 
Gentlemen , I wish your fathers and mothers had known my uncle . 
They would have been amazingly fond of him , especially your respectable mothers I know they would . 
If any two of his numerous virtues predominated over the many that adorned his character , I should say they were his mixed punch and his after supper song . 
Excuse my dwelling on these melancholy recollections of departed worth you won't see a man like my uncle every day in the week . 
They made a bet of a new hat before they had known each other half an hour , who should brew the best quart of punch and drink it the quickest . 
My uncle was judged to have won the making , but Tom Smart beat him in the drinking by about half a salt spoonful . 
They took another quart apiece to drink each other's health in , and were staunch friends ever afterwards . 
There's a destiny in these things , gentlemen we can't help it . 
He was pitched out of his gig once , and knocked , head first , against a milestone . 
Indeed , when I come to think of the matter , gentlemen , I feel pretty sure she wouldn't . 
He was very fond of pickled walnuts , gentlemen . 
He said he always found that , taken without vinegar , they relished the beer . 
You are to understand that his second visit to Edinburgh was for his own pleasure . 
If you ever did , you will agree with me that it requires a pretty strong head to go out to dinner and supper afterwards . 
'But bless your hearts and eyebrows , all this sort of thing was nothing to my uncle ! He was so well seasoned , that it was mere child's play . 
I have heard of a Glasgow man and a Dundee man drinking against each other for fifteen hours at a sitting . 
It was a glorious supper . 
The lassies were pretty and agreeable the bailie's wife was one of the best creatures that ever lived and my uncle was in thoroughly good cue . 
Really , this won't do , said my uncle , addressing himself to the weather , as if he felt himself personally offended . 
This is not at all the kind of thing for my voyage . 
It will not do at any price , said my uncle , very impressively . 
Having repeated this , several times , he recovered his balance with some difficulty for he was rather giddy with looking up into the sky so long and walked merrily on . 
'The bailie's house was in the Canongate , and my uncle was going to the other end of Leith Walk , rather better than a mile's journey . 
there is nothing at all extraordinary in this story , unless you distinctly understand at the beginning , that he was not by any means of a marvellous or romantic turn . 
There was nobody at all disposed to contest the point , as it happened and so , on he went , with his thumbs in his waistcoat pockets , like a lamb . 
They were the decaying skeletons of departed mails , and in that lonely place , at that time of night , they looked chill and dismal . 
I am , therefore , decidedly of opinion , gentlemen , that my uncle fell into a kind of doze , without having thought about anything at all . 
'Be this as it may , a church bell struck two . 
My uncle woke , rubbed his eyes , and jumped up in astonishment . 
'In one instant , after the clock struck two , the whole of this deserted and quiet spot had become a scene of most extraordinary life and animation . 
Now then ! said a voice , as my uncle felt a hand on his shoulder , you're booked for one inside . 
I booked ! said my uncle , turning round . 
'My uncle , gentlemen , could say nothing , he was so very much astonished . 
They seemed to start up , in some strange manner , from the ground , or the air , and disappear in the same way . 
The passengers were all dressed so oddly too ! Large , broad skirted laced coats , with great cuffs and no collars and wigs , gentlemen great formal wigs with a tie behind . 
My uncle could make nothing of it . 
Now , are you going to get in ? said the person who had addressed my uncle before . 
ARE you going to get in , Jack Martin ? said the guard , holding the lantern to my uncle's face . 
Hollo ! said my uncle , falling back a step or two . 
That's familiar ! It's so on the way bill , said the guard . 
Isn't there a 'Mister' before it ? said my uncle . 
No , there is not , rejoined the guard coolly . 
Is the fare paid ? inquired my uncle . 
Of course it is , rejoined the guard . 
it is , is it ? said my uncle . 
Then here goes ! Which coach ? This , said the guard , pointing to an old fashioned Edinburgh and London mail , which had the steps down and the door open . 
Stop ! Here are the other passengers . 
Let them get in first . 
Tiggin and Welps were in the printed calico and waistcoat piece line , gentlemen , so my uncle knew all the materials at once . 
The flaps of his waist coat came half way down his thighs , and the ends of his cravat reached to his waist . 
Then he drew his feet together , and made a low , grave bow , and then put out his left hand . 
'But , in this one glimpse of the beautiful face , my uncle saw that the young lady cast an imploring look upon him , and that she appeared terrified and distressed . 
It's quite surprising how quickly he made up his mind to help the lady at any peril , if she needed any help . 
Death and lightning ! exclaimed the young gentleman , laying his hand upon his sword as my uncle entered the coach . 
Blood and thunder ! roared the other gentleman . 
With this , he whipped his sword out , and made a lunge at my uncle without further ceremony . 
Pink him behind ! cried the ill looking gentleman to his companion , as he struggled to regain his sword . 
He had better not , cried my uncle , displaying the heel of one of his shoes , in a threatening manner . 
I'll kick his brains out , if he has any , or fracture his skull if he hasn't . 
Perhaps , gentlemen , as my uncle used to say with a smile , perhaps he was afraid of alarming the lady . 
Here , guard , pick up that gentleman's carving knife . 
'As quickly as my uncle said the words , the guard appeared at the coach window , with the gentleman's sword in his hand . 
He had never seen such a sea of white faces , red bodies , and earnest eyes , in all his born days . 
This is the strangest sort of thing I ever had anything to do with , thought my uncle allow me to return you your hat , sir . 
All right ! cried the guard with the lantern , mounting into his little seat behind . 
My uncle burned with indignation , gentlemen . 
that he was looking as big as if he were going to devour her at a mouthful . 
This roused my uncle more and more , and he resolved , come what might , to see the end of it . 
He had a great admiration for bright eyes , and sweet faces , and pretty legs and feet in short , he was fond of the whole sex . 
They were all in vain the gentlemen wouldn't talk , and the lady didn't dare . 
He thrust his head out of the coach window at intervals , and bawled out to know why they didn't go faster . 
But he called till he was hoarse nobody paid the least attention to him . 
He leaned back in the coach , and thought of the beautiful face , and the feet and legs . 
This answered better it whiled away the time , and kept him from wondering where he was going , and how it was that he found himself in such an odd situation . 
Not that this would have worried him much , anyway he was a mighty free and easy , roving , devil may care sort of person , was my uncle , gentlemen . 
'All of a sudden the coach stopped . 
Hollo ! said my uncle , what's in the wind now ? Alight here , said the guard , letting down the steps . 
Here ! cried my uncle . 
Here , rejoined the guard . 
I'll do nothing of the sort , said my uncle . 
Very well , then stop where you are , said the guard . 
I will , said my uncle . 
Do , said the guard . 
At this moment , the ill looking man was inspecting the hole in the crown of his three cornered hat . 
Oh ! you've thought better of it , have you ? said the guard , when he saw my uncle standing on the ground . 
They turned into the passage , and my uncle followed . 
'Of all the ruinous and desolate places my uncle had ever beheld , this was the most so . 
There was a huge fireplace in the room into which they walked , and the chimney was blackened with smoke but no warm blaze lighted it up now . 
The white feathery dust of burned wood was still strewed over the hearth , but the stove was cold , and all was dark and gloomy . 
This shall be made known . 
I'll write to the papers . 
'My uncle said this in a pretty loud voice , and in an open , unreserved sort of manner , with the view of engaging the two strangers in conversation if he could . 
But , neither of them took any more notice of him than whispering to each other , and scowling at him as they did so . 
The lady was at the farther end of the room , and once she ventured to wave her hand , as if beseeching my uncle's assistance . 
'At length the two strangers advanced a little , and the conversation began in earnest . 
You don't know this is a private room , I suppose , fellow ? said the gentleman in sky blue . 
No , I do not , fellow , rejoined my uncle . 
Quit this room , said both men together , grasping their swords . 
Eh ? said my uncle , not at all appearing to comprehend their meaning . 
Quit the room , or you are a dead man , said the ill looking fellow with the large sword , drawing it at the same time and flourishing it in the air . 
Down with him ! cried the gentleman in sky blue , drawing his sword also , and falling back two or three yards . 
Down with him ! The lady gave a loud scream . 
'Now , my uncle was always remarkable for great boldness , and great presence of mind . 
This is not inapplicable to my uncle and his fencing . 
It only shows how true the old saying is , that a man never knows what he can do till he tries , gentlemen . 
He had done wonders before , but now he began to powder away like a raving mad giant . 
It was a splendid example . 
The mail , the mail ! cried the lady , running up to my uncle and throwing her beautiful arms round his neck we may yet escape . 
We have not an instant to lose here , said the young lady . 
is the only son of the powerful Marquess of Filletoville . 
You have cut off the entail , my love . 
I have been torn from my home and my friends by these villains , said the young lady , her features glowing with indignation . 
That wretch would have married me by violence in another hour . 
Confound his impudence ! said my uncle , bestowing a very contemptuous look on the dying heir of Filletoville . 
As you may guess from what you have seen , said the young lady , the party were prepared to murder me if I appealed to any one for assistance . 
If their accomplices find us here , we are lost . 
Two minutes hence may be too late . 
The mail ! With these words , overpowered by her feelings , and the exertion of sticking the young Marquess of Filletoville , she sank into my uncle's arms . 
My uncle caught her up , and bore her to the house door . 
There stood the mail , with four long tailed , flowing maned , black horses , ready harnessed but no coachman , no guard , no hostler even , at the horses' heads . 
But who can look in a sweet , soft pair of dark eyes , without feeling queer ? I can't , gentlemen . 
I am afraid to look at some eyes I know , and that's the truth of it . 
You will never leave me , murmured the young lady . 
Never , said my uncle . 
And he meant it too . 
My dear preserver ! exclaimed the young lady . 
My dear , kind , brave preserver ! Don't , said my uncle , interrupting her . 
'Why ? inquired the young lady . 
Because your mouth looks so beautiful when you speak , rejoined my uncle , that I'm afraid I shall be rude enough to kiss it . 
'The young lady put up her hand as if to caution my uncle not to do so , and said No , she didn't say anything she smiled . 
My uncle did so , and I honour him for it . 
Hark ! cried the young lady , starting . 
The noise of wheels , and horses ! So it is , said my uncle , listening . 
The sound was like that of fifty brakes , with six blood cattle in each . 
We are pursued ! cried the young lady , clasping her hands . 
I have no hope but in you ! 'There was such an expression of terror in her beautiful face , that my uncle made up his mind at once . 
Stay , love , cried the young lady . 
What's the matter ? said my uncle , from the coach box . 
I want to speak to you , said the young lady only a word . 
Only one word , dearest . 
Must I get down ? inquired my uncle . 
The lady made no answer , but she smiled again . 
Such a smile , gentlemen ! It beat the other one , all to nothing . 
My uncle descended from his perch in a twinkling . 
What is it , my dear ? said my uncle , looking in at the coach window . 
The lady happened to bend forward at the same time , and my uncle thought she looked more beautiful than she had done yet . 
He was very close to her just then , gentlemen , so he really ought to know . 
What is it , my dear ? said my uncle . 
Will you never love any one but me never marry any one beside ? said the young lady . 
'My uncle swore a great oath that he never would marry anybody else , and the young lady drew in her head , and pulled up the window . 
Whew ! How they tore along ! 'The noise behind grew louder . 
The faster the old mail went , the faster came the pursuers men , horses , dogs , were leagued in the pursuit . 
Houses , gates , churches , haystacks , objects of every kind they shot by , with a velocity and noise like roaring waters suddenly let loose . 
Alas ! There was neither door nor seat to the coach . 
It was a mere shell . 
'Of course , my uncle knew very well that there was some mystery in the matter , and that everything had passed exactly as he used to relate it . 
He remained staunch to the great oath he had sworn to the beautiful young lady , refusing several eligible landladies on her account , and dying a bachelor at last . 
He used to add , that he believed he was the only living person who had ever been taken as a passenger on one of these excursions . 
And I think he was right , gentlemen at least I never heard of any other . 
'I wonder what these ghosts of mail coaches carry in their bags , said the landlord , who had listened to the whole story with profound attention . 
'The dead letters , of course , said the bagman . 
'Oh , ah ! To be sure , rejoined the landlord . 
'I never thought of that . 
'What is the matter ? said Mr. Pickwick to the boy . 
'Nothing's the matter , Sir , replied the boy , expanding his mouth to the whole breadth of his countenance . 
'I'm going , old fellow . 
'You ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Yes , replied Bob Sawyer , 'and a regular expedition we'll make of it . 
'What a start it is , isn't it ? cried Bob , wiping the tears out of his eyes , with one of the cuffs of the rough coat . 
'My dear Sir , said Mr. Pickwick , with some embarrassment , 'I had no idea of your accompanying us . 
'No , that's just the very thing , replied Bob , seizing Mr. Pickwick by the lappel of his coat . 
'Oh , that's the joke , is it ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Of course , replied Bob . 
With this explanation of the phenomenon of the shutters , Mr. Bob Sawyer pointed to the shop , and relapsed into an ecstasy of mirth . 
'Bless me , you are surely not mad enough to think of leaving your patients without anybody to attend them ! remonstrated Mr. Pickwick in a very serious tone . 
'Why not ? asked Bob , in reply . 
'I shall save by it , you know . 
None of them ever pay . 
So it's all for the best . 
There was a philosophy and a strength of reasoning about this reply , which Mr. Pickwick was not prepared for . 
He paused a few moments , and added , less firmly than before 'But this chaise , my young friend , will only hold two and I am pledged to Mr. Allen . 
'Don't think of me for a minute , replied Bob . 
'I've arranged it all Sam and I will share the dickey between us . 
This little bill is to be wafered on the shop door Sawyer , late Nockemorf . 
Inquire of Mrs. Cripps over the way . 
Mrs. Cripps is my boy's mother . 
The fact is , said Bob , in conclusion , 'it'll do me more good than otherwise , I expect . 
If it gets into one of the local papers , it will be the making of me . 
'It's a neat turn out , replied Ben Allen , with something of pride in his tone . 
'They're not used to see this sort of thing , every day , I dare say . 
'Possibly , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'I hope , said Mr. Pickwick , 'that our volatile friend is committing no absurdities in that dickey behind . 
'Oh dear , no , replied Ben Allen . 
'Except when he's elevated , Bob's the quietest creature breathing . 
Sawyer ! cried Mr. Pickwick , in a state of great excitement , 'Mr . 
Sawyer , Sir ! 'Hollo ! responded that gentleman , looking over the side of the chaise with all the coolness in life . 
'Are you mad , sir ? demanded Mr. Pickwick . 
'Not a bit of it , replied Bob 'only cheerful . 
'Cheerful , sir ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick . 
'Take down that scandalous red handkerchief , I beg . 
Sam , take it down . 
Having done this , Bob replaced the cork with great care , and looking benignantly down on Mr. Pickwick , took a large bite out of the sandwich , and smiled . 
'Come , said Mr. Pickwick , whose momentary anger was not quite proof against Bob's immovable self possession , 'pray let us have no more of this absurdity . 
'Think of the look of the thing , expostulated Mr. Pickwick 'have some regard to appearances . 
'Oh , certainly , said Bob , 'it's not the sort of thing at all . 
'What's this ? 'exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'It looks like a case bottle remarked Ben Allen , eyeing the object in question through his spectacles with some interest 'I rather think it belongs to Bob . 
'What's to be done ? said Mr. Pickwick , looking at the bottle . 
'This proceeding is more absurd than the other . 
'What a merry dog it is ! said Mr. Pickwick , looking round at his companion , with the bottle in his hand . 
'He is , said Mr. Allen . 
'You cannot possibly be angry with him , remarked Mr. Pickwick . 
'Quite out of the question , observed Benjamin Allen . 
During this short interchange of sentiments , Mr. Pickwick had , in an abstracted mood , uncorked the bottle . 
'What is it ? inquired Ben Allen carelessly . 
'I don't know , replied Mr. Pickwick , with equal carelessness . 
'It smells , I think , like milk punch . 
'Oh , indeed ? said Ben . 
'I THINK so , rejoined Mr. Pickwick , very properly guarding himself against the possibility of stating an untruth 'mind , I could not undertake to say certainly , without tasting it . 
'You had better do so , said Ben 'we may as well know what it is . 
'Do you think so ? replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well if you are curious to know , of course I have no objection . 
Ever willing to sacrifice his own feelings to the wishes of his friend , Mr. Pickwick at once took a pretty long taste . 
'What is it ? inquired Ben Allen , interrupting him with some impatience . 
'Curious , said Mr. Pickwick , smacking his lips , 'I hardly know , now . 
Oh , yes ! said Mr. Pickwick , after a second taste . 
Mr. Ben Allen looked at Mr. Pickwick Mr. Pickwick looked at Mr. Ben Allen Mr. Ben Allen smiled Mr. Pickwick did not . 
'It would serve him right , said the last named gentleman , with some severity 'it would serve him right to drink it every drop . 
'The very thing that occurred to me , said Ben Allen . 
'Is it , indeed ? rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
The smiles became mutual , and the milk punch was gradually and cheerfully disposed of . 
'After all , said Mr. Pickwick , as he drained the last drop , 'his pranks are really very amusing very entertaining indeed . 
'You may say that , rejoined Mr. Ben Allen . 
'I say ! We're going to dine here , aren't we ? said Bob , looking in at the window . 
'Dine ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , we have only come nineteen miles , and have eighty seven and a half to go . 
'Just the reason why we should take something to enable us to bear up against the fatigue , remonstrated Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'Oh , it's quite impossible to dine at half past eleven o'clock in the day , replied Mr. Pickwick , looking at his watch . 
'So it is , rejoined Bob , 'lunch is the very thing . 
Hollo , you sir ! Lunch for three , directly and keep the horses back for a quarter of an hour . 
Tell them to put everything they have cold , on the table , and some bottled ale , and let us taste your very best Madeira . 
Under the influence of these combined stimulants , Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Ben Allen fell fast asleep for thirty miles , while Bob and Mr. Weller sang duets in the dickey . 
It was quite dark when Mr. Pickwick roused himself sufficiently to look out of the window . 
As they rattled through the narrow thoroughfares leading to the heart of the turmoil , the sights and sounds of earnest occupation struck more forcibly on the senses . 
The streets were thronged with working people . 
The hum of labour resounded from every house lights gleamed from the long casement windows in the attic storeys , and the whirl of wheels and noise of machinery shook the trembling walls . 
The fires , whose lurid , sullen light had been visible for miles , blazed fiercely up , in the great works and factories of the town . 
The din of hammers , the rushing of steam , and the dead heavy clanking of engines , was the harsh music which arose from every quarter . 
The delicate nature of this commission , and the difficulty of executing it in a satisfactory manner , were by no means lessened by the voluntary companionship of Mr. Bob Sawyer . 
'However , said Mr. Pickwick , endeavouring to reassure himself , 'I must do the best I can . 
I must see him to night , for I faithfully promised to do so . 
If they persist in accompanying me , I must make the interview as brief as possible , and be content that , for their own sakes , they will not expose themselves . 
As he comforted himself with these reflections , the chaise stopped at the door of the Old Royal . 
Ben Allen having been partially awakened from a stupendous sleep , and dragged out by the collar by Mr. Samuel Weller , Mr. Pickwick was enabled to alight . 
They were shown to a comfortable apartment , and Mr. Pickwick at once propounded a question to the waiter concerning the whereabout of Mr. Winkle's residence . 
'Close by , Sir , said the waiter , 'not above five hundred yards , Sir . 
Mr. Winkle is a wharfinger , Sir , at the canal , sir . 
Private residence is not oh dear , no , sir , not five hundred yards , sir . 
'Take anything now , Sir ? said the waiter , lighting the candle in desperation at Mr. Pickwick's silence . 
'Tea or coffee , Sir ? Dinner , sir ? 'Nothing now . 
Like to order supper , Sir ? 'Not just now . 
'If YOU please , sir . 
'And bring some soda water , said Bob Sawyer . 
'Soda water , Sir ! Yes , Sir . 
With his mind apparently relieved from an overwhelming weight , by having at last got an order for something , the waiter imperceptibly melted away . 
Waiters never walk or run . 
They have a peculiar and mysterious power of skimming out of rooms , which other mortals possess not . 
A smart servant girl answered the knock , and started on beholding the three strangers . 
'Is Mr. Winkle at home , my dear ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'He is just going to supper , Sir , replied the girl . 
'Give him that card if you please , rejoined Mr. Pickwick . 
'Say I am sorry to trouble him at so late an hour but I am anxious to see him to night , and have only just arrived . 
Pickwick , sir , how do you do ? said Winkle the elder , putting down the candlestick and proffering his hand . 
'Hope I see you well , sir . 
Be seated , Mr. Pickwick , I beg , Sir . 
This gentleman is 'My friend , Mr. Sawyer , interposed Mr. Pickwick , 'your son's friend . 
'Oh , said Mr. Winkle the elder , looking rather grimly at Bob . 
'I hope you are well , sir . 
'Right as a trivet , sir , replied Bob Sawyer . 
All this was most embarrassing to Mr. Pickwick , the more especially as Mr. Winkle , senior , evinced palpable astonishment at the eccentric not to say extraordinary behaviour of his two companions . 
You will see , by its contents , that on your favourable and fatherly consideration of it , depend his future happiness and welfare . 
With this prelude , Mr. Pickwick placed four closely written sides of extra superfine wire wove penitence in the hands of the astounded Mr. Winkle , senior . 
'Did you speak , Sir ? inquired Mr. Winkle , senior , after an awful silence . 
'No , sir , replied Bob , With no remains of the clown about him , save and except the extreme redness of his cheeks . 
'You are sure you did not , sir ? said Mr. Winkle , senior . 
'Oh dear , yes , sir , quite , replied Bob . 
'I thought you did , Sir , replied the old gentleman , with indignant emphasis . 
'Perhaps you LOOKED at me , sir ? 'Oh , no ! sir , not at all , replied Bob , with extreme civility . 
'I am very glad to hear it , sir , said Mr. Winkle , senior . 
Having frowned upon the abashed Bob with great magnificence , the old gentleman again brought the letter to the light , and began to read it seriously . 
Where is that ? 'George Yard , Lombard Street . 
'In the city ? 'Yes . 
'I will consider , replied the old gentleman . 
'I have nothing to say just now . 
I am a man of business , Mr. Pickwick . 
I never commit myself hastily in any affair , and from what I see of this , I by no means like the appearance of it . 
A thousand pounds is not much , Mr. Pickwick . 
'You're very right , Sir , interposed Ben Allen , just awake enough to know that he had spent his thousand pounds without the smallest difficulty . 
Bob , he's a very knowing fellow this . 
, so that he might not enter life a mere boarding school milk sop to be gulled by everybody , I never bargained for this . 
He knows that very well , so if I withdraw my countenance from him on this account , he has no call to be surprised . 
He shall hear from me , Mr. Pickwick . 
Margaret , open the door . 
'As the lady's brother , of course you are an excellent judge of the question , retorted Mr. Winkle , senior . 
Pray say no more , Mr. Pickwick . 
Good night , gentlemen ! With these words the old gentleman took up the candle stick and opening the room door , politely motioned towards the passage . 
'I am at present of a different opinion , calmly replied Mr. Winkle , senior . 
'Once again , gentlemen , I wish you a good night . 
Mr. Pickwick walked with angry strides into the street . 
Mr. Bob Sawyer , completely quelled by the decision of the old gentleman's manner , took the same course . 
Mr. Ben Allen's hat rolled down the steps immediately afterwards , and Mr. Ben Allen's body followed it directly . 
The sky was dark and gloomy , the air was damp and raw , the streets were wet and sloppy . 
In the street , umbrellas were the only things to be seen , and the clicking of pattens and splashing of rain drops were the only sounds to be heard . 
The breakfast was interrupted by very little conversation even Mr. Bob Sawyer felt the influence of the weather , and the previous day's excitement . 
In his own expressive language he was 'floored . 
So was Mr. Ben Allen . 
, but for his great presence of mind in tearing it promptly from his head , and drying the gasping man's countenance with a wisp of straw . 
'This is pleasant , said Bob Sawyer , turning up his coat collar , and pulling the shawl over his mouth to concentrate the fumes of a glass of brandy just swallowed . 
'Wery , replied Sam composedly . 
'You don't seem to mind it , observed Bob . 
'Vy , I don't exactly see no good my mindin' on it 'ud do , sir , replied Sam . 
'That's an unanswerable reason , anyhow , said Bob . 
'Yes , sir , rejoined Mr. Weller . 
'Not a bad notion that , Sam , said Mr. Bob Sawyer approvingly . 
, Just wot the young nobleman said ev'ry quarter day arterwards for the rest of his life , replied Mr. Weller . 
'I don't remember that I ever was , replied Bob Sawyer . 
'You never see a postboy in that 'ere hospital as you WALKED , did you ? demanded Sam . 
'No , replied Bob Sawyer . 
'I don't think I ever did . 
'Never know'd a churchyard were there wos a postboy's tombstone , or see a dead postboy , did you ? inquired Sam , pursuing his catechism . 
'No , rejoined Bob , 'I never did . 
'No ! rejoined Sam triumphantly . 
'Nor never vill and there's another thing that no man never see , and that's a dead donkey . 
'Well , what has that got to do with the postboys ? asked Bob Sawyer . 
'This here , replied Sam . 
'Bless me ! said Mr. Pickwick , just awakening from a nap , 'I'm afraid you're wet . 
'Oh , you are , are you ? returned Bob . 
'Yes , I am , a little that way , Uncomfortably damp , perhaps . 
'I AM rather wet , said Bob , giving himself a shake and casting a little hydraulic shower around , like a Newfoundland dog just emerged from the water . 
'I think it's quite impossible to go on to night , interposed Ben . 
'Out of the question , sir , remarked Sam Weller , coming to assist in the conference 'it's a cruelty to animals , sir , to ask 'em to do it . 
There's beds here , sir , said Sam , addressing his master , 'everything clean and comfortable . 
You'd better stop vere you are , sir , if I might recommend . 
Take adwice , sir , as the doctor said . 
The landlord smiled his delight . 
'Very well , said Mr. Pickwick , 'then we will stop here . 
'Lights in the Sun , John make up the fire the gentlemen are wet ! cried the landlord . 
'This way , gentlemen don't trouble yourselves about the postboy now , sir . 
I'll send him to you when you ring for him , sir . 
Now , John , the candles . 
The candles were brought , the fire was stirred up , and a fresh log of wood thrown on . 
as if the travellers had been expected , and their comforts prepared , for days beforehand . 
This note was hastily made into a parcel , and despatched to the bar per Mr. Samuel Weller . 
'Beggin' your pardon , sir , said Sam , advancing with a bow , 'my master's here , Mr. Pott . 
'Hush ! hush ! cried Pott , drawing Sam into the room , and closing the door , with a countenance of mysterious dread and apprehension . 
'Wot's the matter , Sir ? inquired Sam , looking vacantly about him . 
'Not a whisper of my name , replied Pott 'this is a buff neighbourhood . 
If the excited and irritable populace knew I was here , I should be torn to pieces . 
'No ! Vould you , sir ? inquired Sam . 
'I should be the victim of their fury , replied Pott . 
'Now young man , what of your master ? 'He's a stopping here to night on his vay to town , with a couple of friends , replied Sam . 
'Is Mr. Winkle one of them ? inquired Pott , with a slight frown . 
Mr. Vinkle stops at home now , rejoined Sam . 
'Married ! exclaimed Pott , with frightful vehemence . 
'Is the INDEPENDENT still in being ? 'The INDEPENDENT , sir , replied Pott , 'is still dragging on a wretched and lingering career . 
with vehement articulation , the editor paused to take breath , and looked majestically at Bob Sawyer . 
'You are a young man , sir , said Pott . 
'So are you , sir , said Pott , addressing Mr. Ben Allen . 
Ben admitted the soft impeachment . 
'Why , I don't exactly know about that , replied Bob Sawyer . 
'A waverer , said Pott solemnly , 'a waverer . 
I should like to show you a series of eight articles , Sir , that have appeared in the Eatanswill GAZETTE . 
I think I may venture to say that you would not be long in establishing your opinions on a firm and solid blue basis , sir . 
'I dare say I should turn very blue , long before I got to the end of them , responded Bob . 
'You should do so , Sir , said Pott , with a severe countenance . 
'I will , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'They appeared in the form of a copious review of a work on Chinese metaphysics , Sir , said Pott . 
'Oh , observed Mr. Pickwick 'from your pen , I hope ? 'From the pen of my critic , Sir , rejoined Pott , with dignity . 
'An abstruse subject , I should conceive , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Very , Sir , responded Pott , looking intensely sage . 
'He CRAMMED for it , to use a technical but expressive term he read up for the subject , at my desire , in the Encyclopaedia Britannica . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Pickwick 'I was not aware that that valuable work contained any information respecting Chinese metaphysics . 
'I supposed it was some public mission , observed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Yes , Sir , resumed Pott , 'it is . 
Here , bending towards Mr. Pickwick , he whispered in a deep , hollow voice , 'A Buff ball , Sir , will take place in Birmingham to morrow evening . 
'God bless me ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Yes , Sir , and supper , added Pott . 
'You don't say so ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick . 
'Certainly , sir , replied the landlord . 
'I can , can I ? inquired the stranger , who seemed habitually suspicious in look and manner . 
'No doubt of it , Sir , replied the landlord . 
'Good , said the stranger . 
'Coachman , I get down here . 
Guard , my carpet bag ! Bidding the other passengers good night , in a rather snappish manner , the stranger alighted . 
'Send the landlord , said the stranger . 
'Yes , sir , rejoined the waiter . 
The landlord was sent , and came . 
'Are you the landlord ? inquired the gentleman . 
'I am sir , replied the landlord . 
'My name is Slurk , said the gentleman . 
The landlord slightly inclined his head . 
'Slurk , sir , repeated the gentleman haughtily . 
'Do you know me now , man ? The landlord scratched his head , looked at the ceiling , and at the stranger , and smiled feebly . 
'Do you know me , man ? inquired the stranger angrily . 
The landlord made a strong effort , and at length replied , 'Well , Sir , I do not know you . 
'Great Heaven ! said the stranger , dashing his clenched fist upon the table . 
'And this is popularity ! The landlord took a step or two towards the door the stranger fixing his eyes upon him , resumed . 
'This , said the stranger 'this is gratitude for years of labour and study in behalf of the masses . 
I alight wet and weary no enthusiastic crowds press forward to greet their champion the church bells are silent the very name elicits no responsive feeling in their torpid bosoms . 
It is enough , said the agitated Mr. Slurk , pacing to and fro , 'to curdle the ink in one's pen , and induce one to abandon their cause for ever . 
'Did you say brandy and water , Sir ? said the landlord , venturing a hint . 
'Rum , said Mr. Slurk , turning fiercely upon him . 
'Have you got a fire anywhere ? 'We can light one directly , Sir , said the landlord . 
'Which will throw out no heat until it is bed time , interrupted Mr. Slurk . 
'Is there anybody in the kitchen ? Not a soul . 
There was a beautiful fire . 
Everybody had gone , and the house door was closed for the night . 
'I will drink my rum and water , said Mr. Slurk , 'by the kitchen fire . 
own evil purpose to speak as follows 'I say , we've let the fire out . 
It's uncommonly cold after the rain , isn't it ? 'It really is , replied Mr. Pickwick , shivering . 
'It wouldn't be a bad notion to have a cigar by the kitchen fire , would it ? said Bob Sawyer , still prompted by the demon aforesaid . 
'It would be particularly comfortable , I think , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
The stranger was still reading he looked up and started . 
'What's the matter ? whispered Mr. Pickwick . 
'That reptile ! replied Pott . 
'What reptile ? said Mr. Pickwick , looking about him for fear he should tread on some overgrown black beetle , or dropsical spider . 
'That reptile , whispered Pott , catching Mr. Pickwick by the arm , and pointing towards the stranger . 
'That reptile Slurk , of the INDEPENDENT ! 'Perhaps we had better retire , whispered Mr. Pickwick . 
'Never , Sir , rejoined Pott , pot valiant in a double sense 'never . 
With these words , Mr. Pott took up his position on an opposite settle , and selecting one from a little bundle of newspapers , began to read against his enemy . 
'You shall have this presently , said Pott , looking up , pale with rage , and quivering in his speech , from the same cause . 
'Ha ! ha ! you will be amused with this FELLOW'S audacity . 
Terrible emphasis was laid upon 'thing' and 'fellow' and the faces of both editors began to glow with defiance . 
'The ribaldry of this miserable man is despicably disgusting , said Pott , pretending to address Bob Sawyer , and scowling upon Slurk . 
Here , Mr. Slurk laughed very heartily , and folding up the paper so as to get at a fresh column conveniently , said , that the blockhead really amused him . 
'What an impudent blunderer this fellow is , said Pott , turning from pink to crimson . 
'Did you ever read any of this man's foolery , Sir ? inquired Slurk of Bob Sawyer . 
'Never , replied Bob 'is it very bad ? 'Oh , shocking ! shocking ! rejoined Slurk . 
'Really ! Dear me , this is too atrocious ! exclaimed Pott , at this juncture still feigning to be absorbed in his reading . 
'What's that you said , Sir ? inquired Mr. Pott , looking up , trembling all over with passion . 
'What's that to you , sir ? replied Slurk . 
'Ungrammatical twaddler , was it , sir ? said Pott . 
'Serve him so , sir ! cried Slurk , starting up . 
'Those laws shall never be appealed to by him , sir , in such a case . 
Serve him so , sir ! 'Hear ! hear ! said Bob Sawyer . 
'Nothing can be fairer , observed Mr. Ben Allen . 
'Serve him so , sir ! reiterated Slurk , in a loud voice . 
Mr. Pott darted a look of contempt , which might have withered an anchor . 
'Serve him so , sir ! reiterated Slurk , in a louder voice than before . 
'I will not , sir , rejoined Pott . 
Ha ! ha ! 'I consider you , sir , said Mr. Pott , moved by this sarcasm , 'I consider you a viper . 
I look upon you , sir , as a man who has placed himself beyond the pale of society , by his most audacious , disgraceful , and abominable public conduct . 
I view you , sir , personally and politically , in no other light than as a most unparalleled and unmitigated viper . 
'Gentlemen , cried Mr. Pickwick , as Pott started up and seized the fire shovel 'gentlemen ! Consider , for Heaven's sake help Sam here pray , gentlemen interfere , somebody . 
'Give it up , you wretched little creetur , or I'll smother you in it . 
And you have the goodness to come this here way , sir , if you please . 
'Dear me , Mr. Weller , said the pretty housemaid , meeting Sam at the door . 
'Dear ME I vish it vos , my dear , replied Sam , dropping behind , to let his master get out of hearing . 
'Wot a sweet lookin' creetur you are , Mary ! 'Lot , Mr. Weller , what nonsense you do talk ! said Mary . 
'Oh ! don't , Mr. Weller . 
'Don't what , my dear ? said Sam . 
'Why , that , replied the pretty housemaid . 
'Lor , do get along with you . 
Thus admonishing him , the pretty housemaid pushed Sam against the wall , declaring that he had tumbled her cap , and put her hair quite out of curl . 
'And prevented what I was going to say , besides , added Mary . 
'Vere is it , my love ? inquired Sam . 
'I took care of it , for you , or I dare say it would have been lost long before this , replied Mary . 
'There , take it it's more than you deserve . 
'My goodness me ! said Mary , adjusting the tucker , and feigning unconsciousness , 'you seem to have grown very fond of it all at once . 
'Hollo ! exclaimed Sam , 'wot's all this ? 'Nothing the matter , I hope ? said Mary , peeping over his shoulder . 
'Bless them eyes o' yourn ! said Sam , looking up . 
Sam refreshed himself with a kiss , and read as follows 'MARKIS GRAN 'By DORKEN 'Wensdy . 
'Perhaps he got somebody to write it for him , and signed it himself afterwards , said the pretty housemaid . 
'Stop a minit , replied Sam , running over the letter again , and pausing here and there , to reflect , as he did so . 
That's just the wery sort o' thing he'd do . 
You're right , Mary , my dear . 
She warn't a bad disposed 'ooman , if them shepherds had let her alone . 
I'm wery sorry for it . 
Mr. Weller uttered these words in so serious a manner , that the pretty housemaid cast down her eyes and looked very grave . 
'Hows'ever , said Sam , putting the letter in his pocket with a gentle sigh , 'it wos to be and wos , as the old lady said arter she'd married the footman . 
Can't be helped now , can it , Mary ? Mary shook her head , and sighed too . 
'I must apply to the hemperor for leave of absence , said Sam . 
Mary sighed again the letter was so very affecting . 
'Good bye ! said Sam . 
'Good bye , rejoined the pretty housemaid , turning her head away . 
'Well , shake hands , won't you ? said Sam . 
The pretty housemaid put out a hand which , although it was a housemaid's , was a very small one , and rose to go . 
'I shan't be wery long avay , said Sam . 
'You're always away , said Mary , giving her head the slightest possible toss in the air . 
'You no sooner come , Mr. Weller , than you go again . 
'As long as may be necessary , Sam , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'you have my full permission to remain . 
'Thank'ee , sir , rejoined Sam . 
'I'll mention it , sir . 
And with some expressions of mutual good will and interest , master and man separated . 
It was just seven o'clock when Samuel Weller , alighting from the box of a stage coach which passed through Dorking , stood within a few hundred yards of the Marquis of Granby . 
Seeing nobody of whom he could ask any preliminary questions , Sam walked softly in , and glancing round , he quickly recognised his parent in the distance . 
The widower was seated at a small round table in the little room behind the bar , smoking a pipe , with his eyes intently fixed upon the fire . 
Mr. Weller was in a very abstracted and contemplative mood . 
'Sammy , said Mr. Weller , 'you're welcome . 
'I've been a callin' to you half a dozen times , said Sam , hanging his hat on a peg , 'but you didn't hear me . 
'No , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller , again looking thoughtfully at the fire . 
'I was in a referee , Sammy . 
'Wot about ? inquired Sam , drawing his chair up to the fire . 
'In a referee , Sammy , replied the elder Mr. Weller , 'regarding HER , Samivel . 
Here Mr. Weller jerked his head in the direction of Dorking churchyard , in mute explanation that his words referred to the late Mrs. Weller . 
'I wos a thinkin' , Sammy , that upon the whole I wos wery sorry she wos gone . 
'Vell , and so you ought to be , replied Sam . 
Mr. Weller nodded his acquiescence in the sentiment , and again fastening his eyes on the fire , shrouded himself in a cloud , and mused deeply . 
'Those wos wery sensible observations as she made , Sammy , said Mr. Weller , driving the smoke away with his hand , after a long silence . 
'Wot observations ? inquired Sam . 
'Them as she made , arter she was took ill , replied the old gentleman . 
'Wot was they ? 'Somethin' to this here effect . 
'So we must , Sammy , said Mr. Weller the elder . 
'There's a Providence in it all , said Sam . 
'O' course there is , replied his father , with a nod of grave approval . 
'Hollo ! said the elder Mr. Weller , dropping the poker as he looked round , and hastily drew his chair away . 
'Wot's the matter now ? 'Have a cup of tea , there's a good soul , replied the buxom female coaxingly . 
'I von't , replied Mr. Weller , in a somewhat boisterous manner . 
'I'll see you Mr. Weller hastily checked himself , and added in a low tone , 'furder fust . 
'Oh , dear , dear ! How adwersity does change people ! said the lady , looking upwards . 
'It's the only thing 'twixt this and the doctor as shall change my condition , muttered Mr. Weller . 
'I really never saw a man so cross , said the buxom female . 
It's all for my own good vich is the reflection vith vich the penitent school boy comforted his feelin's ven they flogged him , rejoined the old gentleman . 
Which is what a very worthy person said to me when my husband died . 
Here the speaker , putting her hand before her mouth , coughed again , and looked affectionately at the elder Mr. Weller . 
'As I don't rekvire any o' your conversation just now , mum , vill you have the goodness to re tire ? inquired Mr. Weller , in a grave and steady voice . 
'Well , Mr. Weller , said the buxom female , 'I'm sure I only spoke to you out of kindness . 
'Wery likely , mum , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Samivel , show the lady out , and shut the door after her . 
'Wot ! is she so wery fond on you ? inquired Sam . 
'Fond ! replied his father . 
'I can't keep her avay from me . 
If I was locked up in a fireproof chest vith a patent Brahmin , she'd find means to get at me , Sammy . 
'Wot a thing it is to be so sought arter ! observed Sam , smiling . 
'I don't take no pride out on it , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller , poking the fire vehemently , 'it's a horrid sitiwation . 
I'm actiwally drove out o' house and home by it . 
'How are you safer there than anyveres else ? interrupted Sam . 
Cos a coachman's a privileged indiwidual , replied Mr. Weller , looking fixedly at his son . 
And wot other man can say the same , Sammy ? 'Vell , there's somethin' in that , said Sam . 
'Wy not ? said Sam , rather disparagingly . 
'Wy not ! rejoined Mr. Weller ''cos it 'ud ha' gone agin their consciences . 
A reg'lar coachman's a sort o' con nectin' link betwixt singleness and matrimony , and every practicable man knows it . 
'Wot ! You mean , they're gen'ral favorites , and nobody takes adwantage on 'em , p'raps ? said Sam . 
'How it ever come to that 'ere pass , resumed the parent Weller , 'I can't say . 
I only know that so it is . 
It's a regulation of natur a dispensary , as your poor mother in law used to say . 
'A dispensation , said Sam , correcting the old gentleman . 
'And wot's to become o' the bis'ness ? inquired Sam . 
'Them things as is always a goin' up and down , in the city . 
'Nonsense , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Them things as is alvays a fluctooatin' , and gettin' theirselves inwolved somehow or another vith the national debt , and the chequers bill and all that . 
'Oh ! the funds , said Sam . 
'Ah ! rejoined Mr. Weller , 'the funs two hundred pounds o' the money is to be inwested for you , Samivel , in the funs four and a half per cent . 
'Wery kind o' the old lady to think o' me , said Sam , 'and I'm wery much obliged to her . 
Having delivered this warning , Mr. Weller resumed his pipe with a more serene countenance the disclosure of these matters appearing to have eased his mind considerably . 
'Somebody's a tappin' at the door , said Sam . 
'Let 'em tap , replied his father , with dignity . 
Sam acted upon the direction . 
There was another tap , and another , and then a long row of taps upon which Sam inquired why the tapper was not admitted . 
'Hush , whispered Mr. Weller , with apprehensive looks , 'don't take no notice on 'em , Sammy , it's vun o' the widders , p'raps . 
No notice being taken of the taps , the unseen visitor , after a short lapse , ventured to open the door and peep in . 
It was no female head that was thrust in at the partially opened door , but the long black locks and red face of Mr. Stiggins . 
Mr. Weller's pipe fell from his hands . 
Sam sat opposite him in perfect silence , waiting , with eager curiosity , for the termination of the scene . 
After this , he stirred the fire after that , he rubbed his hands and looked at Sam . 
'Oh , my young friend , said Mr. Stiggins , breaking the silence , in a very low voice , 'here's a sorrowful affliction ! Sam nodded very slightly . 
'Do you know , young man , whispered Mr. Stiggins , drawing his chair closer to Sam , 'whether she has left Emanuel anything ? 'Who's he ? inquired Sam . 
'The chapel , replied Mr. Stiggins 'our chapel our fold , Mr. Samuel . 
'She hasn't left the fold nothin' , nor the shepherd nothin' , nor the animals nothin' , said Sam decisively 'nor the dogs neither . 
'I think there's something , said Stiggins , turning as pale as he could turn . 
'Consider , Mr. Samuel no little token ? 'Not so much as the vorth o' that 'ere old umberella o' yourn , replied Sam . 
'Was he , though ? exclaimed Stiggins , brightening up . 
'Ah ! He's changed , I dare say . 
We might live very comfortably together now , Mr. Samuel , eh ? I could take care of his property when you are away good care , you see . 
Heaving a long drawn sigh , Mr. Stiggins paused for a response . 
'Sammy , said Mr. Weller , 'put my hat on tight for me . 
I'm out o' breath , my boy . 
'My dear girl , said Mr. Pickwick kindly , 'it is no fault of yours . 
It was impossible to foresee that the old gentleman would be so strongly prepossessed against his son's marriage , you know . 
I am sure , added Mr. Pickwick , glancing at her pretty face , 'he can have very little idea of the pleasure he denies himself . 
'But , dear Mr. Pickwick , what is to become of Nathaniel if his father withdraws his assistance ? urged Arabella . 
The significance of this reply was not so well disguised by Mr. Pickwick but that Arabella understood it . 
So , throwing her arms round his neck , and kissing him affectionately , she sobbed louder than before . 
If not , I have thought of half a dozen plans , any one of which would make you happy at once . 
There , my dear , there ! With these words , Mr. Pickwick gently pressed Arabella's hand , and bade her dry her eyes , and not distress her husband . 
'This is a distressing predicament for these young people , thought Mr. Pickwick , as he dressed himself next morning . 
'I'll walk up to Perker's , and consult him about the matter . 
It still wanted ten minutes to the hour when he had ascended the staircase on which Perker's chambers were . 
The clerks had not arrived yet , and he beguiled the time by looking out of the staircase window . 
The clock struck ten , and clerks poured in faster than ever , each one in a greater perspiration than his predecessor . 
'You're early , Mr. Pickwick , said a voice behind him . 
'Ah , Mr. Lowten , replied that gentleman , looking round , and recognising his old acquaintance . 
'Precious warm walking , isn't it ? said Lowten , drawing a Bramah key from his pocket , with a small plug therein , to keep the dust out . 
'You appear to feel it so , rejoined Mr. Pickwick , smiling at the clerk , who was literally red hot . 
'I've come along , rather , I can tell you , replied Lowten . 
'It went the half hour as I came through the Polygon . 
I'm here before him , though , so I don't mind . 
'There , you see , Mr. Pickwick , he said , 'now I'm complete . 
I've got my office coat on , and my pad out , and let him come as soon as he likes . 
You haven't got a pinch of snuff about you , have you ? 'No , I have not , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'I'm sorry for it , said Lowten . 
I'll run out presently , and get a bottle of soda . 
'I'm glad of it , said Lowten . 
'We were keeping it up pretty tolerably at the Stump last night , and I'm rather out of sorts this morning . 
Perker's been about that business of yours , by the bye . 
'What business ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
Bardell's costs ? 'No , I don't mean that , replied Mr. Lowten . 
'Oh , Mr. Jingle , said Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
Well ? 'Well , it's all arranged , said Lowten , mending his pen . 
'The agent at Liverpool said he had been obliged to you many times when you were in business , and he would be glad to take him on your recommendation . 
'That's well , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I am delighted to hear it . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Pickwick , with a smile . 
'I always thought him the reverse . 
'Well , and so did I , from what little I saw of him , replied Lowten , 'it only shows how one may be deceived . 
What do you think of his going to Demerara , too ? 'What ! And giving up what was offered him here ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Treating Perker's offer of eighteen bob a week , and a rise if he behaved himself , like dirt , replied Lowten . 
'Foolish fellow , said Mr. Pickwick , with glistening eyes . 
'Oh , it's worse than foolish it's downright sneaking , you know , replied Lowten , nibbing the pen with a contemptuous face . 
'He says that he's the only friend he ever had , and he's attached to him , and all that . 
'Hark ! said Perker , 'that's one of our vagabond friends Jingle himself , my dear Sir . 
Will you see him ? 'What do you think ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , hesitating . 
'Yes , I think you had better . 
'Well , said Perker , 'don't you know that gentleman ? 'Good reason to , replied Mr. Jingle , stepping forward . 
Pickwick deepest obligations life preserver made a man of me you shall never repent it , Sir . 
'I am happy to hear you say so , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Thanks to you , sir great change Majesty's Fleet unwholesome place very , said Jingle , shaking his head . 
He was decently and cleanly dressed , and so was Job , who stood bolt upright behind him , staring at Mr. Pickwick with a visage of iron . 
'When do they go to Liverpool ? inquired Mr. Pickwick , half aside to Perker . 
'This evening , Sir , at seven o'clock , said Job , taking one step forward . 
'By the heavy coach from the city , Sir . 
'Are your places taken ? 'They are , sir , replied Job . 
'You have fully made up your mind to go ? 'I have sir , answered Job . 
'With regard to such an outfit as was indispensable for Jingle , said Perker , addressing Mr. Pickwick aloud . 
I entirely disapprove of your doing anything for him , my dear sir , which is not dependent on his own exertions and good conduct . 
'Certainly , interposed Jingle , with great firmness . 
'Clear head man of the world quite right perfectly . 
'Not lost , said Jingle hastily , 'Pay it all stick to business cash up every farthing . 
'He means to say , said Job , advancing a few paces , 'that if he is not carried off by the fever , he will pay the money back again . 
If he lives , he will , Mr. Pickwick . 
I will see it done . 
I know he will , Sir , said Job , with energy . 
'I could undertake to swear it . 
'Clever rascal queer fellow , hoaxing genius Job's brother . 
'Job's brother ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick . 
'Well , now I look at him closely , there IS a likeness . 
He emigrated to America , Sir , in consequence of being too much sought after here , to be comfortable and has never been heard of since . 
'I need not inquire whether his dismal behaviour was natural or assumed . 
'He could assume anything , Sir , said Job . 
'You may consider yourself very fortunate in having escaped him so easily . 
On intimate terms he would have been even a more dangerous acquaintance than Job looked at Jingle , hesitated , and finally added , 'than than myself even . 
'A hopeful family yours , Mr. Trotter , said Perker , sealing a letter which he had just finished writing . 
'Yes , Sir , replied Job . 
'Well , said the little man , laughing , 'I hope you are going to disgrace it . 
Deliver this letter to the agent when you reach Liverpool , and let me advise you , gentlemen , not to be too knowing in the West Indies . 
If you throw away this chance , you will both richly deserve to be hanged , as I sincerely trust you will be . 
And now you had better leave Mr. Pickwick and me alone , for we have other matters to talk over , and time is precious . 
As Perker said this , he looked towards the door , with an evident desire to render the leave taking as brief as possible . 
It was brief enough on Mr. Jingle's part . 
Job Trotter relieved his perplexity for , with a humble and grateful bow to Mr. Pickwick , he took his friend gently by the arm , and led him away . 
'A worthy couple ! said Perker , as the door closed behind them . 
'I hope they may become so , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
I hope it may prove a good one . 
They are unquestionably penitent now but then , you know , they have the recollection of very recent suffering fresh upon them . 
What they may become , when that fades away , is a problem that neither you nor I can solve . 
However , my dear Sir , added Perker , laying his hand on Mr. Pickwick's shoulder , 'your object is equally honourable , whatever the result is . 
But if those two fellows were to commit a burglary to morrow , my opinion of this action would be equally high . 
'Give him a week , said Perker , nodding his head prophetically . 
'Do you think he will come round ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'I think he will , rejoined Perker . 
'If not , we must try the young lady's persuasion and that is what anybody but you would have done at first . 
'Come in ! cried the little man . 
The clerk came in , and shut the door after him , with great mystery . 
'What's the matter ? inquired Perker . 
'Who wants me ? Lowten looked at Mr. Pickwick , and coughed . 
'Who wants me ? Can't you speak , Mr. Lowten ? 'Why , sir , replied Lowten , 'it's Dodson and Fogg is with him . 
'Bless my life ! said the little man , looking at his watch , 'I appointed them to be here at half past eleven , to settle that matter of yours , Pickwick . 
Dodson Fogg were , Mr. Pickwick replied that he would remain where he was the more especially as Messrs . 
Dodson Fogg ought to be ashamed to look him in the face , instead of his being ashamed to see them . 
Which latter circumstance he begged Mr. Perker to note , with a glowing countenance and many marks of indignation . 
Show them in , Mr. Lowten . 
Mr. Lowten disappeared with a grin , and immediately returned ushering in the firm , in due form of precedence Dodson first , and Fogg afterwards . 
'You have seen Mr. Pickwick , I believe ? said Perker to Dodson , inclining his pen in the direction where that gentleman was seated . 
'How do you do , Mr. Pickwick ? said Dodson , in a loud voice . 
'Dear me , 'cried Fogg , 'how do you do , Mr. Pickwick ? I hope you are well , Sir . 
I thought I knew the face , said Fogg , drawing up a chair , and looking round him with a smile . 
'There's no occasion for Mr. Pickwick to move , Mr. Perker , said Fogg , untying the red tape which encircled the little bundle , and smiling again more sweetly than before . 
Pickwick is pretty well acquainted with these proceedings . 
There are no secrets between us , I think . 
He ! he ! he ! 'Not many , I think , said Dodson . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! Then both the partners laughed together pleasantly and cheerfully , as men who are going to receive money often do . 
'We shall make Mr. Pickwick pay for peeping , said Fogg , with considerable native humour , as he unfolded his papers . 
'The amount of the taxed costs is one hundred and thirty three , six , four , Mr. Perker . 
There was a great comparing of papers , and turning over of leaves , by Fogg and Perker , after this statement of profit and loss . 
I have been persecuted and annoyed by scoundrels of late , Sir . 
Perker coughed violently , and asked Mr. Pickwick whether he wouldn't like to look at the morning paper . 
To which inquiry Mr. Pickwick returned a most decided negative . 
'True , said Dodson , 'I dare say you have been annoyed in the Fleet there are some odd gentry there . 
Whereabouts were your apartments , Mr. Pickwick ? 'My one room , replied that much injured gentleman , 'was on the coffee room flight . 
'Oh , indeed ! said Dodson . 
'I believe that is a very pleasant part of the establishment . 
'Very , 'replied Mr. Pickwick drily . 
There was a coolness about all this , which , to a gentleman of an excitable temperament , had , under the circumstances , rather an exasperating tendency . 
'Now , Mr. Dodson , said Fogg , putting up the pocket book and drawing on his gloves , 'I am at your service . 
'Very good , said Dodson , rising 'I am quite ready . 
'I am very happy , said Fogg , softened by the cheque , 'to have had the pleasure of making Mr. Pickwick's acquaintance . 
I hope you don't think quite so ill of us , Mr. Pickwick , as when we first had the pleasure of seeing you . 
'I hope not , said Dodson , with the high tone of calumniated virtue . 
'Oh , no , no nor I , said Fogg , in a most forgiving manner . 
'Our conduct , Sir , said Dodson , 'will speak for itself , and justify itself , I hope , upon every occasion . 
We have been in the profession some years , Mr. Pickwick , and have been honoured with the confidence of many excellent clients . 
I wish you good morning , Sir . 
'Good morning , Mr. Pickwick , said Fogg . 
'Lowten ! cried Perker , at this moment . 
'Wait one instant , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Perker , I WILL speak . 
'My dear Sir , pray let the matter rest where it is , said the little attorney , who had been in a state of nervous apprehension during the whole interview 'Mr . 
Pickwick , I beg 'I will not be put down , Sir , replied Mr. Pickwick hastily . 
Dodson , you have addressed some remarks to me . 
Dodson turned round , bent his head meekly , and smiled . 
'What , sir ! exclaimed Dodson . 
'What , sir ! reiterated Fogg . 
'Do you know that I have been the victim of your plots and conspiracies ? continued Mr. Pickwick . 
'Of course we know it , Sir , rejoined Fogg , slapping his pocket perhaps by accident . 
I say insolent familiarity , sir , said Mr. Pickwick , turning upon Fogg with a fierceness of gesture which caused that person to retreat towards the door with great expedition . 
'Let him assault you , Mr. Fogg don't return it on any account . 
'You are , continued Mr. Pickwick , resuming the thread of his discourse 'you are a well matched pair of mean , rascally , pettifogging robbers . 
'Well , interposed Perker , 'is that all ? 'It is all summed up in that , rejoined Mr. Pickwick 'they are mean , rascally , pettifogging robbers . 
'There ! said Perker , in a most conciliatory tone . 
'My dear sirs , he has said all he has to say . 
Lowten , is that door open ? Mr. Lowten , with a distant giggle , replied in the affirmative . 
'You are a couple of mean 'Remember , sir , you pay dearly for this , said Fogg . 
Rascally , pettifogging robbers ! continued Mr. Pickwick , taking not the least notice of the threats that were addressed to him . 
'Robbers ! cried Mr. Pickwick , running to the stair head , as the two attorneys descended . 
'Robbers ! shouted Mr. Pickwick , breaking from Lowten and Perker , and thrusting his head out of the staircase window . 
'Well , now , said Mr. Pickwick , 'let me have a settlement with you . 
'Of the same kind as the last ? inquired Perker , with another laugh . 
'Not exactly , rejoined Mr. Pickwick , drawing out his pocket book , and shaking the little man heartily by the hand , 'I only mean a pecuniary settlement . 
You have done me many acts of kindness that I can never repay , and have no wish to repay , for I prefer continuing the obligation . 
'Dear me , what's that ? exclaimed Perker , starting . 
'I think it is a knock at the door , said Mr. Pickwick , as if there could be the smallest doubt of the fact . 
The knocker made a more energetic reply than words could have yielded , for it continued to hammer with surprising force and noise , without a moment's cessation . 
'Dear me ! said Perker , ringing his bell , 'we shall alarm the inn . 
Mr. Lowten , don't you hear a knock ? 'I'll answer the door in one moment , Sir , replied the clerk . 
The knocker appeared to hear the response , and to assert that it was quite impossible he could wait so long . 
It made a stupendous uproar . 
'It's quite dreadful , said Mr. Pickwick , stopping his ears . 
'Make haste , Mr. Lowten , Perker called out 'we shall have the panels beaten in . 
Mr. Lowten , who was washing his hands in a dark closet , hurried to the door , and turning the handle , beheld the appearance which is described in the next chapter . 
'What's the matter ? inquired the clerk . 
The extraordinary boy replied not a word but he nodded once , and seemed , to the clerk's imagination , to snore feebly . 
'Where do you come from ? inquired the clerk . 
The boy made no sign . 
He breathed heavily , but in all other respects was motionless . 
Finding the door open , he stared about him with astonishment , and at length fixed his eyes on Mr. Lowten's face . 
'What the devil do you knock in that way for ? inquired the clerk angrily . 
'Which way ? said the boy , in a slow and sleepy voice . 
'Why , like forty hackney coachmen , replied the clerk . 
'Because master said , I wasn't to leave off knocking till they opened the door , for fear I should go to sleep , said the boy . 
'Well , said the clerk , 'what message have you brought ? 'He's downstairs , rejoined the boy . 
He wants to know whether you're at home . 
Mr. Lowten bethought himself , at this juncture , of looking out of the window . 
Seeing an open carriage with a hearty old gentleman in it , looking up very anxiously , he ventured to beckon him on which , the old gentleman jumped out directly . 
'That's your master in the carriage , I suppose ? said Lowten . 
All further inquiries were superseded by the appearance of old Wardle , who , running upstairs and just recognising Lowten , passed at once into Mr. Perker's room . 
'Pickwick ! said the old gentleman . 
'I am heartily glad to see him , notwithstanding . 
I will not lose sight of him again , in a hurry . 
'Here are pretty goings on a pinch of your snuff , Perker , my boy never were such times , eh ? 'What do you mean ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Why , I think the girls are all running mad that's no news , you'll say ? Perhaps it's not but it's true , for all that . 
'You have not come up to London , of all places in the world , to tell us that , my dear Sir , have you ? inquired Perker . 
'No , not altogether , replied Wardle 'though it was the main cause of my coming . 
How's Arabella ? 'Very well , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'and will be delighted to see you , I am sure . 
'Black eyed little jilt ! replied Wardle . 
'I had a great idea of marrying her myself , one of these odd days . 
But I am glad of it too , very glad . 
'How did the intelligence reach you ? asked Mr. Pickwick . 
'Oh , it came to my girls , of course , 'replied Wardle . 
They thought it such a much more dreadful thing that there should have been a wedding without bridesmaids , that I might as well have preached to Joe himself . 
Here the old gentleman stopped to laugh and having done so to his heart's content , presently resumed 'But this is not the best of it , it seems . 
This is only half the love making and plotting that have been going forward . 
We have been walking on mines for the last six months , and they're sprung at last . 
'What do you mean ? exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , turning pale 'no other secret marriage , I hope ? 'No , no , replied old Wardle 'not so bad as that no . 
'What then ? inquired Mr. Pickwick 'am I interested in it ? 'Shall I answer that question , Perker ? said Wardle . 
'If you don't commit yourself by doing so , my dear Sir . 
'Well then , you are , said Wardle . 
'How ? asked Mr. Pickwick anxiously . 
'Yes , yes , we know , said Mr. Pickwick impatiently . 
'Don't alarm me at the very beginning . 
It's quite a marriage of affection , pa , said Bella , after a short silence . 
Yes , my dear , said I , but such marriages do not always turn out the happiest . 
'I question that , mind ! interposed Mr. Pickwick warmly . 
'Very good , responded Wardle , 'question anything you like when it's your turn to speak , but don't interrupt me . 
'I beg your pardon , said Mr. Pickwick . 
I am sorry to hear you express your opinion against marriages of affection , pa , said Bella , colouring a little . 
It's not that I meant , pa , said Bella . 
The fact is , pa , I wanted to speak to you about Emily . 
'What's the matter now ? inquired Wardle , stopping in his narrative . 
'Nothing , 'replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'I never could spin out a story , said Wardle abruptly . 
'It must come out , sooner or later , and it'll save us all a great deal of time if it comes at once . 
'Snodgrass ! since last Christmas ! were the first broken words that issued from the lips of the confounded gentleman . 
'Since last Christmas , replied Wardle 'that's plain enough , and very bad spectacles we must have worn , not to have discovered it before . 
'I don't understand it , said Mr. Pickwick , ruminating 'I cannot really understand it . 
'It's easy enough to understand it , replied the choleric old gentleman . 
the addresses of a young gentleman down in our neighbourhood . 
Now the question is , what's to be done ? 'What have YOU done ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'I ! 'I mean what did you do when your married daughter told you this ? 'Oh , I made a fool of myself of course , rejoined Wardle . 
'Just so , interposed Perker , who had accompanied this dialogue with sundry twitchings of his watch chain , vindictive rubbings of his nose , and other symptoms of impatience . 
'That's very natural but how ? 'I went into a great passion and frightened my mother into a fit , said Wardle . 
'That was judicious , remarked Perker 'and what else ? 'I fretted and fumed all next day , and raised a great disturbance , rejoined the old gentleman . 
'Miss Wardle is with you , then ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'To be sure she is , replied Wardle . 
'She is at Osborne's Hotel in the Adelphi at this moment , unless your enterprising friend has run away with her since I came out this morning . 
'You are reconciled then ? said Perker . 
'I suppose so , said Wardle , looking at Mr. Pickwick . 
'Certainly , replied that gentleman . 
If you have not settled it by the next time I see you , I'll tell you what to do . 
'This is satisfactory , said Wardle , hardly knowing whether to smile or be offended . 
'Pooh , pooh , my dear Sir , returned Perker . 
'I know you both a great deal better than you know yourselves . 
You have settled it already , to all intents and purposes . 
'You dine with me to day , said Wardle to Perker , as he showed them out . 
'Can't promise , my dear Sir , can't promise , replied Perker . 
'I'll look in , in the evening , at all events . 
'I shall expect you at five , said Wardle . 
Charged with this message , the fat boy returned , slumbering as peaceably in his dickey , over the stones , as if it had been a down bed on watch springs . 
At the sight of this phenomenon , the fat boy uttered an interjection , the ladies a scream , and the gentleman an oath , almost simultaneously . 
'Wretched creature , what do you want here ? said the gentleman , who it is needless to say was Mr. Snodgrass . 
To this the fat boy , considerably terrified , briefly responded , 'Missis . 
'Leave the room ! said Mr. Snodgrass , glaring upon the bewildered youth . 
'No , no , no , added Emily hastily . 
'Bella , dear , advise me . 
Upon this , Emily and Mr. Snodgrass , and Arabella and Mary , crowded into a corner , and conversed earnestly in whispers for some minutes , during which the fat boy dozed . 
'Joe , said Mr. Snodgrass , advancing to the astonished youth , and seizing his hand , 'I didn't know you before . 
The fat boy's perception being slow , he looked rather puzzled at first to account for this sudden prepossession in his favour , and stared about him in a very alarming manner . 
'He understands us , I see , said Arabella . 
'He had better have something to eat , immediately , remarked Emily . 
The fat boy almost laughed again when he heard this suggestion . 
Mary , after a little more whispering , tripped forth from the group and said 'I am going to dine with you to day , sir , if you have no objection . 
'This way , said the fat boy eagerly . 
'Sit down , said the fat boy . 
'Oh , my eye , how prime ! I am SO hungry . 
Having apostrophised his eye , in a species of rapture , five or six times , the youth took the head of the little table , and Mary seated herself at the bottom . 
'Will you have some of this ? said the fat boy , plunging into the pie up to the very ferules of the knife and fork . 
'A little , if you please , replied Mary . 
Having achieved this feat , he sighed again , and applied himself assiduously to the pie . 
'What a nice young lady Miss Emily is ! said Mary , after a long silence . 
The fat boy had by this time finished the pie . 
He fixed his eyes on Mary , and replied 'I knows a nicerer . 
'Yes , indeed ! replied the fat boy , with unwonted vivacity . 
'What's her name ? inquired Mary . 
'So's hers , said the fat boy . 
'You mustn't talk to me in that way , said Mary 'you don't mean it . 
'Don't I , though ? replied the fat boy . 
'I say ? 'Well ? 'Are you going to come here regular ? 'No , rejoined Mary , shaking her head , 'I'm going away again to night . 
'Don't you understand me ? said Mary , looking slily in his fat face . 
Again he looked at the half crown , and said faintly , 'No . 
'The ladies want you not to say anything to the old gentleman about the young gentleman having been upstairs and I want you too . 
, is that all ? said the fat boy , evidently very much relieved , as he pocketed the half crown again . 
'Of course I ain't a going to . 
'You see , said Mary , 'Mr . 
'No , no , I won't tell , said the fat boy stoutly . 
'That's a dear , said Mary . 
'Now it's time I went upstairs , and got my lady ready for dinner . 
'Don't go yet , urged the fat boy . 
'I must , replied Mary . 
'Good bye , for the present . 
The ladies ran to Emily's bedroom to dress , and the lover , taking up his hat , walked out of the room . 
He had scarcely got outside the door , when he heard Wardle's voice talking loudly , and looking over the banisters beheld him , followed by some other gentlemen , coming straight upstairs . 
, closed the door softly , just as the persons he had caught a glimpse of entered the sitting room . 
These were Mr. Wardle , Mr. Pickwick , Mr. Nathaniel Winkle , and Mr. Benjamin Allen , whom he had no difficulty in recognising by their voices . 
There was only one obstacle to his walking quietly and comfortably away , which was that the door was locked and the key gone . 
'Let us have some of your best wine to day , waiter , said old Wardle , rubbing his hands . 
'You shall have some of the very best , sir , replied the waiter . 
'Let the ladies know we have come in . 
Devoutly and ardently did Mr. Snodgrass wish that the ladies could know he had come in . 
, he sat himself on a portmanteau , and trembled violently . 
'We won't wait a minute for Perker , said Wardle , looking at his watch 'he is always exact . 
He will be here , in time , if he means to come and if he does not , it's of no use waiting . 
Ha ! Arabella ! 'My sister ! exclaimed Mr. Benjamin Allen , folding her in a most romantic embrace . 
'Oh , Ben , dear , how you do smell of tobacco , said Arabella , rather overcome by this mark of affection . 
'Do I ? said Mr. Benjamin Allen . 
'Do I , Bella ? Well , perhaps I do . 
Perhaps he did , having just left a pleasant little smoking party of twelve medical students , in a small back parlour with a large fire . 
'But I am delighted to see you , said Mr. Ben Allen . 
'Bless you , Bella ! 'There , said Arabella , bending forward to kiss her brother 'don't take hold of me again , Ben , dear , because you tumble me so . 
At this point of the reconciliation , Mr. Ben Allen allowed his feelings and the cigars and porter to overcome him , and looked round upon the beholders with damp spectacles . 
'is nothing to be said to me ? cried Wardle , with open arms . 
'A great deal , whispered Arabella , as she received the old gentleman's hearty caress and congratulation . 
'You are a hard hearted , unfeeling , cruel monster . 
'You are a little rebel , replied Wardle , in the same tone , 'and I am afraid I shall be obliged to forbid you the house . 
People like you , who get married in spite of everybody , ought not to be let loose on society . 
But come ! added the old gentleman aloud , 'here's the dinner you shall sit by me . 
'Joe , said Mr. Wardle , after an unsuccessful search in all his pockets , 'is my snuff box on the sofa ? 'No , sir , replied the fat boy . 
'Oh , I recollect I left it on my dressing table this morning , said Wardle . 
'Run into the next room and fetch it . 
The fat boy went into the next room and , having been absent about a minute , returned with the snuff box , and the palest face that ever a fat boy wore . 
'What's the matter with the boy ? exclaimed Wardle . 
'Nothen's the matter with me , replied Joe nervously . 
'Have you been seeing any spirits ? inquired the old gentleman . 
'Or taking any ? added Ben Allen . 
'I think you're right , whispered Wardle across the table . 
'He is intoxicated , I'm sure . 
'Just keep your eye upon him for a few minutes , murmured Wardle . 
'We shall soon find out whether he is or not . 
He ruminated a little with a most disturbed expression of face , and left the room in search of Mary . 
But Mary had gone home after dressing her mistress , and the fat boy came back again more disturbed than before . 
Wardle and Mr. Ben Allen exchanged glances . 
'What did you go away for ? The fat boy looked hopelessly in the face of everybody at table , and stammered out that he didn't know . 
'Oh , said Wardle , 'you don't know , eh ? Take this cheese to Mr. Pickwick . 
'What's the matter ? inquired Wardle . 
'This is such an extremely singular lad ! replied Mr. Pickwick , looking uneasily at the boy . 
'It seems an odd thing to say , but upon my word I am afraid that , at times , he is a little deranged . 
'Oh ! Mr. Pickwick , pray don't say so , cried Emily and Arabella , both at once . 
'I am not certain , of course , said Mr. Pickwick , amidst profound silence and looks of general dismay 'but his manner to me this moment really was very alarming . 
Oh ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick , suddenly jumping up with a short scream . 
'I beg your pardon , ladies , but at that moment he ran some sharp instrument into my leg . 
Really , he is not safe . 
'He's drunk , roared old Wardle passionately . 
'Ring the bell ! Call the waiters ! He's drunk . 
'I ain't , said the fat boy , falling on his knees as his master seized him by the collar . 
'Then you're mad that's worse . 
Call the waiters , said the old gentleman . 
'I ain't mad I'm sensible , rejoined the fat boy , beginning to cry . 
'Then , what the devil did you run sharp instruments into Mr. Pickwick's legs for ? inquired Wardle angrily . 
'He wouldn't look at me , replied the boy . 
'I wanted to speak to him . 
'What did you want to say ? asked half a dozen voices at once . 
The fat boy gasped , looked at the bedroom door , gasped again , and wiped two tears away with the knuckle of each of his forefingers . 
'What did you want to say ? demanded Wardle , shaking him . 
'Stop ! said Mr. Pickwick 'allow me . 
What did you wish to communicate to me , my poor boy ? 'I want to whisper to you , replied the fat boy . 
'You want to bite his ear off , I suppose , said Wardle . 
'Don't come near him he's vicious ring the bell , and let him be taken downstairs . 
'Hollo ! cried Wardle , releasing the fat boy's collar , and staggering back . 
'What's this ? 'I have been concealed in the next room , sir , since you returned , explained Mr. Snodgrass . 
'Emily , my girl , said Wardle reproachfully , 'I detest meanness and deceit this is unjustifiable and indelicate in the highest degree . 
I don't deserve this at your hands , Emily , indeed ! 'Dear papa , said Emily , 'Arabella knows everybody here knows Joe knows that I was no party to this concealment . 
Having delivered himself to this effect , Mr. Snodgrass bowed again , looked into the crown of his hat , and stepped towards the door . 
'Why , in the name of all that's 'Inflammable , mildly suggested Mr. Pickwick , who thought something worse was coming . 
'Well that's inflammable , said Wardle , adopting the substitute 'couldn't you say all this to me in the first instance ? 'Or confide in me ? added Mr. Pickwick . 
The worthy old gentleman pulled Arabella's ear , kissed her without the smallest scruple , kissed his daughter also with great affection , and shook Mr. Snodgrass warmly by the hand . 
'She is right on one point at all events , said the old gentleman cheerfully . 
'Ring for the wine ! The wine came , and Perker came upstairs at the same moment . 
Mr. Snodgrass had dinner at a side table , and , when he had despatched it , drew his chair next Emily , without the smallest opposition on the old gentleman's part . 
Little Mr. Perker came out wonderfully , told various comic stories , and sang a serious song which was almost as funny as the anecdotes . 
I thought it wos there . 
'Thought wot wos there ? inquired Sam . 
'Your mother in law's vill , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller . 
'In wirtue o' vich , them arrangements is to be made as I told you on , last night , respectin' the funs . 
'Wot , didn't she tell you were it wos ? inquired Sam . 
'Not a bit on it , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller . 
'We wos a adjestin' our little differences , and I wos a cheerin' her spirits and bearin' her up , so that I forgot to ask anythin' about it . 
'This here is the dockyment , Sammy , said Mr. Weller . 
'I found it in the little black tea pot , on the top shelf o' the bar closet . 
She used to keep bank notes there , 'fore she vos married , Samivel . 
I've seen her take the lid off , to pay a bill , many and many a time . 
'Jist vot I told you , my boy , rejoined his parent . 
'That's all , is it ? said Sam . 
'That's all , replied Mr. Weller . 
'And I s'pose as it's all right and satisfactory to you and me as is the only parties interested , ve may as vell put this bit o' paper into the fire . 
'You're a nice eggzekiter , you are . 
'Vy not ? inquired Mr. Weller , looking sternly round , with the poker in his hand . 
'Vy not ? exclaimed Sam . 
''Cos it must be proved , and probated , and swore to , and all manner o' formalities . 
'You don't mean that ? said Mr. Weller , laying down the poker . 
Sam buttoned the will carefully in a side pocket intimating by a look , meanwhile , that he did mean it , and very seriously too . 
'Then I'll tell you wot it is , said Mr. Weller , after a short meditation , 'this is a case for that 'ere confidential pal o' the Chancellorship's . 
Pell must look into this , Sammy . 
He's the man for a difficult question at law . 
Ve'll have this here brought afore the Solvent Court , directly , Samivel . 
You'd better get your out o' door clothes on , and come to town about this bisness , than stand a preachin' there about wot you don't understand nothin' on . 
'Wery good , Sammy , replied Mr. Weller , 'I'm quite agreeable to anythin' as vill hexpedite business , Sammy . 
But mind this here , my boy , nobody but Pell nobody but Pell as a legal adwiser . 
'I don't want anybody else , replied Sam . 
'Vait a minit' Sammy ven you grow as old as your father , you von't get into your veskit quite as easy as you do now , my boy . 
'If I couldn't get into it easier than that , I'm blessed if I'd vear vun at all , rejoined his son . 
'You think so now , said Mr. Weller , with the gravity of age , 'but you'll find that as you get vider , you'll get viser . 
Vidth and visdom , Sammy , alvays grows together . 
Having paused a few seconds to recover breath , he brushed his hat with his elbow , and declared himself ready . 
They're the wery best judges , added Mr. Weller , in a half whisper 'the wery best judges of a horse , you ever know'd . 
'And of a lawyer too ? inquired Sam . 
The messenger fortunately found Mr. Solomon Pell in court , regaling himself , business being rather slack , with a cold collation of an Abernethy biscuit and a saveloy . 
'Gentlemen , said Mr. Pell , touching his hat , 'my service to you all . 
I don't say it to flatter you , gentlemen , but there are not five other men in the world , that I'd have come out of that court for , to day . 
'So busy , eh ? said Sam . 
Poor fellow he was very susceptible to fatigue he used to feel those appeals uncommonly . 
I actually thought more than once that he'd have sunk under 'em I did , indeed . 
'I don't think he ever quite recovered them , replied Pell 'in fact I'm sure he never did . 
Pell , he used to say to me many a time , how the blazes you can stand the head work you do , is a mystery to me . 
Well , I used to answer , I hardly know how I do it , upon my life . 
Ah ! you'd have liked him very much if you had known him , gentlemen . 
Bring me three penn'orth of rum , my dear . 
'However , said Pell , drawing a chair to the table , 'a professional man has no right to think of his private friendships when his legal assistance is wanted . 
By the bye , gentlemen , since I saw you here before , we have had to weep over a very melancholy occurrence . 
'I saw it in the ADVERTISER , Mr. Weller , continued Pell . 
'Bless my soul , not more than fifty two ! Dear me only think . 
'I have heard it remarked that she was a very fine woman , Mr. Weller , said Pell , in a sympathising manner . 
'She wos a wery fine 'ooman , sir , ven I first know'd her . 
She wos a widder , sir , at that time . 
'Now , it's curious , said Pell , looking round with a sorrowful smile 'Mrs . 
'That's very extraordinary , said the mottled faced man . 
'Well , it is a curious coincidence , said Pell . 
'Not at all , gruffly remarked the elder Mr. Weller . 
'More widders is married than single wimin . 
'Very good , very good , said Pell , 'you're quite right , Mr. Weller . 
Mrs. Pell was a very elegant and accomplished woman her manners were the theme of universal admiration in our neighbourhood . 
I was proud to see that woman dance there was something so firm and dignified , and yet natural , in her motion . 
Her cutting , gentlemen , was simplicity itself . 
Pell was a tall figure , said Pell , 'a splendid woman , with a noble shape , and a nose , gentlemen , formed to command and be majestic . 
She was very much attached to me very much highly connected , too . 
Her mother's brother , gentlemen , failed for eight hundred pounds , as a law stationer . 
'Vell , said Mr. Weller , who had grown rather restless during this discussion , 'vith regard to bis'ness . 
The word was music to Pell's ears . 
'Wot we rekvire , sir , is a probe o' this here . 
'Probate , my dear Sir , probate , said Pell . 
'No offence , I hope , Mr. Weller , said Pell meekly . 
'You are the executor , I see , he added , casting his eyes over the paper . 
'I am , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
'These other gentlemen , I presume , are legatees , are they ? inquired Pell , with a congratulatory smile . 
'Sammy is a leg at ease , replied Mr. Weller 'these other gen'l'm'n is friends o' mine , just come to see fair a kind of umpires . 
'Oh ! said Pell , 'very good . 
I have no objections , I'm sure . 
It was a kind of festive occasion , and the parties were attired accordingly . 
'A quarter to two , said Pell , looking at the parlour clock . 
'If we are with Mr. Flasher at a quarter past , we shall just hit the best time . 
'What should you say to a drop o' beer , gen'l'm'n ? suggested the mottled faced man . 
'And a little bit o' cold beef , said the second coachman . 
'Or a oyster , added the third , who was a hoarse gentleman , supported by very round legs . 
'Sammy , pull the bell . 
Sammy complied and the porter , cold beef , and oysters being promptly produced , the lunch was done ample justice to . 
Pell , Sir , said the elder Mr. Weller , stirring a glass of brandy and water , of which one was placed before every gentleman when the oyster shells were removed 'Mr . 
Here's your health , sir . 
drew a long breath , and lifted his tumbler to his lips . 
In one instant , the mottled faced gentleman depressed his hand again , and every glass was set down empty . 
It is impossible to describe the thrilling effect produced by this striking ceremony . 
At once dignified , solemn , and impressive , it combined every element of grandeur . 
'Well , gentlemen , said Mr. Pell , 'all I can say is , that such marks of confidence must be very gratifying to a professional man . 
I don't wish to say anything that might appear egotistical , gentlemen , but I'm very glad , for your own sakes , that you came to me that's all . 
I could have wished my noble friend had been alive to have seen my management of this case . 
I don't say it out of pride , but I think However , gentlemen , I won't trouble you with that . 
I'm generally to be found here , gentlemen , but if I'm not here , or over the way , that's my address . 
You'll find my terms very cheap and reasonable , and no man attends more to his clients than I do , and I hope I know a little of my profession besides . 
Upon this hint Mr. Weller settled the bill , and , issuing forth , the executor , legatee , attorney , and umpires , directed their steps towards the city . 
'Good morning , Sir , said Pell , bowing obsequiously . 
'We want to make a little transfer , if you please . 
'Oh , just come in , will you ? said Mr. Flasher . 
'Sit down a minute I'll attend to you directly . 
'Thank you , Sir , said Pell , 'there's no hurry . 
Take a chair , Mr. Weller . 
'Well , I'll bet you half a dozen of claret on it come ! said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire , resuming the conversation to which Mr. Pell's entrance had caused a momentary interruption . 
This was addressed to a very smart young gentleman who wore his hat on his right whisker , and was lounging over the desk , killing flies with a ruler . 
'I never bet half a dozen ! said the other gentleman . 
'Done , Simmery , done ! said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
P. , mind , observed the other . 
'Of course , replied Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
'I see there's a notice up this morning about Boffer , observed Mr. Simmery . 
'Poor devil , he's expelled the house ! 'I'll bet you ten guineas to five , he cuts his throat , said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
'Done , replied Mr. Simmery . 
'Stop ! I bar , said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire , thoughtfully . 
'Perhaps he may hang himself . 
'Very good , rejoined Mr. Simmery , pulling out the gold pencil case again . 
'I've no objection to take you that way . 
Say , makes away with himself . 
'Kills himself , in fact , said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
'Just so , replied Mr. Simmery , putting it down . 
Flasher ten guineas to five , Boffer kills himself . 
Within what time shall we say ? 'A fortnight ? suggested Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
'Con found it , no , rejoined Mr. Simmery , stopping for an instant to smash a fly with the ruler . 
'Split the difference , said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
'Well ten days , 'rejoined Mr. Simmery . 
'I'm very sorry he has failed , said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
'Fine port he had too , remarked Mr. Simmery . 
'We are going to send our butler to the sale to morrow , to pick up some of that sixty four . 
'The devil you are ! said Wilkins Flasher , Esquire . 
Five guineas my man outbids your man . 
'Wot place is this here ? whispered the mottled faced gentleman to the elder Mr. Weller . 
'Counsel's Office , replied the executor in a whisper . 
'Wot are them gen'l'men a settin' behind the counters ? asked the hoarse coachman . 
'Reduced counsels , I s'pose , replied Mr. Weller . 
'Ain't they the reduced counsels , Samivel ? 'Wy , you don't suppose the reduced counsels is alive , do you ? inquired Sam , with some disdain . 
'How should I know ? retorted Mr. Weller 'I thought they looked wery like it . 
Wot are they , then ? 'Clerks , replied Sam . 
'Wot are they all a eatin' ham sangwidges for ? inquired his father . 
'Wot's that for , Sir ? inquired Mr. Weller , directing Pell's attention to the target in question . 
'The first letter of the name of the deceased , replied Pell . 
'I say , said Mr. Weller , turning round to the umpires , there's somethin' wrong here . 
We's our letter this won't do . 
A quiet room was soon found , and the accounts were produced and audited . 
The umpires having partaken of a dram , shook hands and departed , as they had to drive out of town that night . 
Mr. Solomon Pell , finding that nothing more was going forward , either in the eating or drinking way , took a friendly leave , and Sam and his father were left alone . 
'There ! said Mr. Weller , thrusting his pocket book in his side pocket . 
'Vith the bills for the lease , and that , there's eleven hundred and eighty pound here . 
'Thank you , Sir , said Mary , tripping towards the door again . 
'Sam has not been here long , has he ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Oh , no , Sir , replied Mary eagerly . 
'He has only just come home . 
He is not going to ask you for any more leave , Sir , he says . 
She certainly held down her head , and examined the corner of a very smart little apron , with more closeness than there appeared any absolute occasion for . 
'Tell them they can come up at once , by all means , said Mr. Pickwick . 
Mary , apparently much relieved , hurried away with her message . 
Mr. Pickwick took two or three turns up and down the room and , rubbing his chin with his left hand as he did so , appeared lost in thought . 
It is the fate of a lonely old man , that those about him should form new and different attachments and leave him . 
I have no right to expect that it should be otherwise with me . 
No , no , added Mr. Pickwick more cheerfully , 'it would be selfish and ungrateful . 
I ought to be happy to have an opportunity of providing for him so well . 
Mr. Pickwick had been so absorbed in these reflections , that a knock at the door was three or four times repeated before he heard it . 
Hastily seating himself , and calling up his accustomed pleasant looks , he gave the required permission , and Sam Weller entered , followed by his father . 
'Glad to see you back again , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'How do you do , Mr. Weller ? 'Wery hearty , thank'ee , sir , replied the widower 'hope I see you well , sir . 
'Quite , I thank you , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'I wanted to have a little bit o' conwersation with you , sir , said Mr. Weller , 'if you could spare me five minits or so , sir . 
'Certainly , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Sam , give your father a chair . 
'Remarkably so , indeed , replied Mr. Pickwick . 
'Seasonablest veather I ever see , sir , rejoined Mr. Weller . 
'I never see sich a aggrawatin' boy as you are , Samivel , said Mr. Weller , looking indignantly at his son 'never in all my born days . 
'What is he doing , Mr. Weller ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
It ain't filial conduct , Samivel , said Mr. Weller , wiping his forehead 'wery far from it . 
I'm ashamed on you , Samivel . 
'The fact is , Sir , said Sam , with a slight bow , 'the gov'nor's been a drawin' his money . 
'Wery good , Samivel , wery good , said Mr. Weller , nodding his head with a satisfied air , 'I didn't mean to speak harsh to you , Sammy . 
That's the vay to begin . 
Come to the pint at once . 
Wery good indeed , Samivel . 
Mr. Weller nodded his head an extraordinary number of times , in the excess of his gratification , and waited in a listening attitude for Sam to resume his statement . 
'You may sit down , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , apprehending that the interview was likely to prove rather longer than he had expected . 
Sam bowed again and sat down his father looking round , he continued 'The gov'nor , sir , has drawn out five hundred and thirty pound . 
'Reduced counsels , interposed Mr. Weller , senior , in an undertone . 
'To vich sum , he has added for the house and bisness 'Lease , good vill , stock , and fixters , interposed Mr. Weller . 
'As much as makes it , continued Sam , 'altogether , eleven hundred and eighty pound . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I am delighted to hear it . 
I congratulate you , Mr. Weller , on having done so well . 
'Vait a minit , Sir , said Mr. Weller , raising his hand in a deprecatory manner . 
'Wery good , Samivel , observed Mr. Weller , in as complacent a manner as if Sam had been passing the highest eulogiums on his prudence and foresight . 
If you'll take care on it for me , sir , I shall be wery much obliged to you . 
P'raps , said Mr. Weller , walking up to Mr. Pickwick and whispering in his ear 'p'raps it'll go a little vay towards the expenses o' that 'ere conwiction . 
All I say is , just you keep it till I ask you for it again . 
'Stop him , Sam ! exclaimed Mr. Pickwick earnestly . 
'My good friend , said Mr. Pickwick , taking the old man by the hand , 'your honest confidence overpowers me . 
'I don't see no occasion for nothin' o' the kind , Sir , replied Mr. Weller obstinately . 
'No man knows how much he can spend , till he tries , observed Mr. Weller . 
'Perhaps not , replied Mr. Pickwick 'but as I have no intention of trying any such experiments , I am not likely to come to want . 
I must beg you to take this back , Mr. Weller . 
'Wery well , said Mr. Weller , with a discontented look . 
'Mark my vords , Sammy , I'll do somethin' desperate vith this here property somethin' desperate ! 'You'd better not , replied Sam . 
Mr. Weller reflected for a short time , and then , buttoning up his coat with great determination , said 'I'll keep a pike . 
'A pike ! rejoined Mr. Weller , through his set teeth 'I'll keep a pike . 
Say good bye to your father , Samivel . 
I dewote the remainder of my days to a pike . 
I can do more good with it , perhaps , than you can . 
'Just the wery thing , to be sure , said Mr. Weller , brightening up 'o' course you can , sir . 
'Say no more about it , said Mr. Pickwick , locking the pocket book in his desk 'I am heartily obliged to you , my good friend . 
I want to ask your advice . 
'Wait outside a few minutes , Sam , will you ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
He was wholly unable to speak vague thoughts of some wicked widow having been successful in her designs on Mr. Pickwick , choked his utterance . 
'Did you happen to see a young girl downstairs when you came in just now with your son ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
I see a young gal , replied Mr. Weller shortly . 
'So she is , said Mr. Pickwick , 'so she is . 
What did you think of her manners , from what you saw of her ? 'Wery pleasant , rejoined Mr. Weller . 
'I take a great interest in her , Mr. Weller , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'I mean an interest in her doing well , resumed Mr. Pickwick 'a desire that she may be comfortable and prosperous . 
You understand ? 'Wery clearly , replied Mr. Weller , who understood nothing yet . 
'That young person , said Mr. Pickwick , 'is attached to your son . 
'To Samivel Veller ! exclaimed the parent . 
'Yes , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'It's nat'ral , said Mr. Weller , after some consideration , 'nat'ral , but rayther alarmin' . 
'How do you mean ? inquired Mr. Pickwick . 
'Wery careful that he don't say nothin' to her , responded Mr. Weller . 
'Wery careful that he ain't led avay , in a innocent moment , to say anythin' as may lead to a conwiction for breach . 
I wos married fust , that vay myself , Sir , and Sammy wos the consekens o' the manoover . 
'You give me no great encouragement to conclude what I have to say , observed Mr. Pickwick , 'but I had better do so at once . 
This young person is not only attached to your son , Mr. Weller , but your son is attached to her . 
Mr. Pickwick had great influence over him , and he had been much struck with Mary's appearance having , in fact , bestowed several very unfatherly winks upon her , already . 
'Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , clearing his throat , 'your father and I have been having some conversation about you . 
'About you , Samivel , said Mr. Weller , in a patronising and impressive voice . 
'You hear this , Samivel ? said Mr. Weller , in the same judicial form of speech as before . 
'Certainly not , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Not by no means , acquiesced Mr. Weller , affably but magisterially . 
'So far from thinking there is anything wrong in conduct so natural , resumed Mr. Pickwick , 'it is my wish to assist and promote your wishes in this respect . 
With this view , I have had a little conversation with your father and finding that he is of my opinion 'The lady not bein' a widder , interposed Mr. Weller in explanation . 
'The lady not being a widow , said Mr. Pickwick , smiling . 
'Can't be done ! ejaculated Mr. Pickwick in astonishment . 
'Samivel ! said Mr. Weller , with dignity . 
'I say it can't be done , repeated Sam in a louder key . 
My rambles , Sam , are over . 
'How do I know that 'ere , sir ? argued Sam . 
'Wery good , Samivel , there's a good deal in that , said Mr. Weller encouragingly . 
'I speak after long deliberation , Sam , and with the certainty that I shall keep my word , said Mr. Pickwick , shaking his head . 
'New scenes have closed upon me my rambles are at an end . 
'Wery good , rejoined Sam . 
'Then , that's the wery best reason wy you should alvays have somebody by you as understands you , to keep you up and make you comfortable . 
'My good fellow , said Mr. Pickwick , when Mr. Weller had sat down again , rather abashed at his own enthusiasm , 'you are bound to consider the young woman also . 
'I do consider the young 'ooman , Sir , said Sam . 
'I have considered the young 'ooman . 
I've told her how I'm sitivated she's ready to vait till I'm ready , and I believe she vill . 
If she don't , she's not the young 'ooman I take her for , and I give her up vith readiness . 
You've know'd me afore , Sir . 
My mind's made up , and nothin' can ever alter it . 
Who could combat this resolution ? Not Mr. Pickwick . 
'Is she alone ? inquired the old gentleman . 
'I believe she is , Sir , replied the waiter 'I can call her own maid , Sir , if you 'No , I don't want her , said the old gentleman quickly . 
'Show me to her room without announcing me . 
'Eh , Sir ? said the waiter . 
'Are you deaf ? inquired the little old gentleman . 
'Then listen , if you please . 
Can you hear me now ? 'Yes , Sir . 
Show me to Mrs. Winkle's room , without announcing me . 
As the little old gentleman uttered this command , he slipped five shillings into the waiter's hand , and looked steadily at him . 
'Really , sir , said the waiter , 'I don't know , sir , whether 'Ah ! you'll do it , I see , said the little old gentleman . 
'You had better do it at once . 
There was something so very cool and collected in the gentleman's manner , that the waiter put the five shillings in his pocket , and led him upstairs without another word . 
'This is the room , is it ? said the gentleman . 
The waiter complied , wondering much who the gentleman could be , and what he wanted the little old gentleman , waiting till he was out of sight , tapped at the door . 
'Come in , said Arabella . 
'Um , a pretty voice , at any rate , murmured the little old gentleman 'but that's nothing . 
As he said this , he opened the door and walked in . 
Arabella , who was sitting at work , rose on beholding a stranger a little confused but by no means ungracefully so . 
'Pray don't rise , ma'am , said the unknown , walking in , and closing the door after him . 
Winkle , I believe ? Arabella inclined her head . 
Nathaniel Winkle , who married the son of the old man at Birmingham ? said the stranger , eyeing Arabella with visible curiosity . 
Again Arabella inclined her head , and looked uneasily round , as if uncertain whether to call for assistance . 
'I surprise you , I see , ma'am , said the old gentleman . 
'Rather , I confess , replied Arabella , wondering more and more . 
'I'll take a chair , if you'll allow me , ma'am , said the stranger . 
He took one and drawing a spectacle case from his pocket , leisurely pulled out a pair of spectacles , which he adjusted on his nose . 
'You don't know me , ma'am ? he said , looking so intently at Arabella that she began to feel alarmed . 
'No , sir , she replied timidly . 
'No , said the gentleman , nursing his left leg 'I don't know how you should . 
You know my name , though , ma'am . 
'Do I ? said Arabella , trembling , though she scarcely knew why . 
'May I ask what it is ? 'Presently , ma'am , presently , said the stranger , not having yet removed his eyes from her countenance . 
'Without having represented to your husband the propriety of first consulting his father , on whom he is dependent , I think ? said the stranger . 
Arabella applied her handkerchief to her eyes . 
'I cannot deny it , Sir , said Arabella . 
'It was wrong , said the old gentleman in a milder tone , 'very wrong . 
It was romantic , unbusinesslike , foolish . 
'It was my fault all my fault , Sir , replied poor Arabella , weeping . 
'Where's your husband ? inquired the old gentleman , abruptly stopping a smile which was just coming over his own face . 
'I expect him every instant , sir , said Arabella . 
'I persuaded him to take a walk this morning . 
He is very low and wretched at not having heard from his father . 
'Low , is he ? said the old gentlemen . 
'Serve him right ! 'He feels it on my account , I am afraid , said Arabella 'and indeed , Sir , I feel it deeply on his . 
I have been the sole means of bringing him to his present condition . 
'Don't mind it on his account , my dear , said the old gentleman . 
I am glad of it actually glad of it , as far as he is concerned . 
The words were scarcely out of the old gentleman's lips , when footsteps were heard ascending the stairs , which he and Arabella seemed both to recognise at the same moment . 
The little gentleman turned pale and , making a strong effort to appear composed , stood up , as Mr. Winkle entered the room . 
'Father ! cried Mr. Winkle , recoiling in amazement . 
'Yes , sir , replied the little old gentleman . 
'Well , Sir , what have you got to say to me ? Mr. Winkle remained silent . 
'You are ashamed of yourself , I hope , Sir ? said the old gentleman . 
Still Mr. Winkle said nothing . 
'Are you ashamed of yourself , Sir , or are you not ? inquired the old gentleman . 
'No , Sir , replied Mr. Winkle , drawing Arabella's arm through his . 
'I am not ashamed of myself , or of my wife either . 
'Upon my word ! cried the old gentleman ironically . 
'Give me your hand , Nat , said the old gentleman , in an altered voice . 
'Kiss me , my love . 
Pickwick , I thank you most heartily for all your kindness to my son , said old Mr. Winkle , in a bluff , straightforward way . 
'I am a hasty fellow , and when I saw you last , I was vexed and taken by surprise . 
I have judged for myself now , and am more than satisfied . 
Shall I make any more apologies , Mr. Pickwick ? 'Not one , replied that gentleman . 
'You have done the only thing wanting to complete my happiness . 
After which , he walked home , whistling . 
It was evident that very grave and eventful proceedings were on foot but various surmises were afloat , respecting their precise character . 
were disposed to think that Mr. Pickwick contemplated a matrimonial alliance but this idea the ladies most strenuously repudiated . 
With this view , Mr. Wardle invited the full circle to dinner at the Adelphi and the decanters having been thrice sent round , opened the business . 
'Are you ? said Mr. Pickwick . 
'It is singular enough that I had intended to volunteer a full explanation this very day so , if you will give me another glass of wine , I will satisfy your curiosity . 
I determined on retiring to some quiet , pretty neighbourhood in the vicinity of London I saw a house which exactly suited my fancy I have taken it and furnished it . 
Here Mr. Pickwick paused , and a low murmur ran round the table . 
'The house I have taken , said Mr. Pickwick , 'is at Dulwich . 
It has a large garden , and is situated in one of the most pleasant spots near London . 
It has been fitted up with every attention to substantial comfort perhaps to a little elegance besides but of that you shall judge for yourselves . 
I have engaged , on Perker's representation , a housekeeper a very old one and such other servants as she thinks I shall require . 
I propose to consecrate this little retreat , by having a ceremony in which I take a great interest , performed there . 
I wish , if my friend Wardle entertains no objection , that his daughter should be married from my new house , on the day I take possession of it . 
The happiness of young people , said Mr. Pickwick , a little moved , 'has ever been the chief pleasure of my life . 
It will warm my heart to witness the happiness of those friends who are dearest to me , beneath my own roof . 
Mr. Pickwick paused again Emily and Arabella sobbed audibly . 
'I have communicated , both personally and by letter , with the club , resumed Mr. Pickwick , 'acquainting them with my intention . 
During our long absence , it has suffered much from internal dissentions and the withdrawal of my name , coupled with this and other circumstances , has occasioned its dissolution . 
The Pickwick Club exists no longer . 
There were few preparatory arrangements to be made for the marriage of Mr. Snodgrass . 
As he had neither father nor mother , and had been in his minority a ward of Mr. Pickwick's , that gentleman was perfectly well acquainted with his possessions and prospects . 
Getting post horses to the carriage , old Wardle started off , next day , to bring his mother back to town . 
And she did go the doctor with great attention sending in half a dozen of medicine , to be drunk upon the road . 
However , old frocks were trimmed , and new bonnets made , and the young ladies looked as well as could possibly have been expected of them . 
And as they cried at the subsequent ceremony in the proper places , and trembled at the right times , they acquitted themselves to the admiration of all beholders . 
Here , all the light clouds of the more solemn part of the proceedings passed away every face shone forth joyously and nothing was to be heard but congratulations and commendations . 
As he does so , the tears roll down his cheeks , in the fullness of his joy . 
There are dark shadows on the earth , but its lights are stronger in the contrast . 
Some men , like bats or owls , have better eyes for the darkness than for the light . 
It is the fate of all authors or chroniclers to create imaginary friends , and lose them in the course of art . 
Nor is this the full extent of their misfortunes for they are required to furnish an account of them besides . 
In compliance with this custom unquestionably a bad one we subjoin a few biographical words , in relation to the party at Mr. Pickwick's assembled . 
Mr. and Mrs. Winkle , being fully received into favour by the old gentleman , were shortly afterwards installed in a newly built house , not half a mile from Mr. Pickwick's . 
Mr. and Mrs. Snodgrass settled at Dingley Dell , where they purchased and cultivated a small farm , more for occupation than profit . 
There are many celebrated characters , literary , philosophical , and otherwise , who hold a high reputation on a similar tenure . 
Mr. Tupman , when his friends married , and Mr. Pickwick settled , took lodgings at Richmond , where he has ever since resided . 
He has never proposed again . 
Mr. Bob Sawyer , having previously passed through the GAZETTE , passed over to Bengal , accompanied by Mr. Benjamin Allen both gentlemen having received surgical appointments from the East India Company . 
They each had the yellow fever fourteen times , and then resolved to try a little abstinence since which period , they have been doing well . 
Mrs. Bardell let lodgings to many conversable single gentlemen , with great profit , but never brought any more actions for breach of promise of marriage . 
Dodson Fogg , continue in business , from which they realise a large income , and in which they are universally considered among the sharpest of the sharp . 
Sam Weller kept his word , and remained unmarried , for two years . 
From the circumstance of two sturdy little boys having been repeatedly seen at the gate of the back garden , there is reason to suppose that Sam has some family . 
The elder Mr. Weller drove a coach for twelve months , but being afflicted with the gout , was compelled to retire . 
He is known by all the poor people about , who never fail to take their hats off , as he passes , with great respect . 
The children idolise him , and so indeed does the whole neighbourhood . 
