The telegram is before me as I write . 
They stood very obviously for the knighted specialist whose consulting room is within a cab whistle of Vere Street , and who once called me kinsman for his sins . 
More recently he had called me other names . 
I was a disgrace , qualified by an adjective which seemed to me another . 
I had made my bed , and I could go and lie and die in it . 
If I ever again had the insolence to show my nose in that house , I should go out quicker than I came in . 
I literally could not believe my eyes . 
Yet their evidence was more and more conclusive a very epistle could not have been more characteristic of its sender . 
Nor was all the rest unlike him , upon second thoughts . 
He had a reputation for charity he was going to live up to it after all . 
Well , I must see it for myself , and the sooner the better , though work pressed . 
The address given in the advertisement was that of a flat at Earl's Court , which cost me a cross country journey , finishing with the District Railway and a seven minutes' walk . 
It was now past mid day , and the tarry wood pavement was good to smell as I strode up the Earl's Court Road . 
It was great to walk the civilized world again . 
Here were men with coats on their backs , and ladies in gloves . 
My only fear was lest I might run up against one or other whom I had known of old . 
But it was my lucky day . 
I felt it in my bones . 
I felt quite nervous when I reached the flats . 
I rather pitied myself as well . 
I had indulged in visions of better flats than these . 
The porter was out of livery . 
A full blooded young fellow in a frock coat flung the right door open at my summons . 
Does Mr. Maturin live here ? I inquired . 
That's right , said the full blooded young man , grinning all over a convivial countenance . 
I I've come about his advertisement in the Daily Mail . 
You're the thirty ninth , cried the blood that was the thirty eighth you met upon the stairs , and the day's still young . 
Excuse my staring at you . 
Yes , you pass your prelim . 
, and can come inside you're one of the few . 
We had most just after breakfast , but now the porter's heading off the worst cases , and that last chap was the first for twenty minutes . 
'Varsity man ? No. Public school ? Yes . 
Which one ? I told him , and he sighed relief . 
At last ! You're the very first I've not had to argue with as to what is and what is not a public school . 
Expelled ? No , I said , after a moment's hesitation no , I was not expelled . 
And I hope you won't expel me if I ask a question in my turn ? Certainly not . 
Are you Mr. Maturin's son ? No , my name's Theobald . 
You may have seen it down below . 
The doctor ? I said . 
His doctor , said Theobald , with a satisfied eye . 
He is having a male nurse and attendant by my advice , and he wants a gentleman if he can get one . 
I rather think he'll see you , though he's only seen two or three all day . 
There are certain questions which he prefers to ask himself , and it's no good going over the same ground twice . 
So perhaps I had better tell him about you before we get any further . 
And he withdrew to a room still nearer the entrance , as I could hear , for it was a very small flat indeed . 
But now two doors were shut between us , and I had to rest content with murmurs through the wall until the doctor returned to summon me . 
I have persuaded my patient to see you , he whispered , but I confess I am not sanguine of the result . 
He is very difficult to please . 
You must prepare yourself for a querulous invalid , and for no sinecure if you get the billet . 
May I ask what's the matter with him ? By all means when you've got the billet . 
Theobald then led the way , his professional dignity so thoroughly intact that I could not but smile as I followed his swinging coat tails to the sick room . 
Take him to the window , take him to the window , a thin voice snapped , and let's have a look at him . 
Open the blind a bit . 
Not as much as that , damn you , not as much as that ! The doctor took the oath as though it had been a fee . 
I no longer pitied him . 
It was now very clear to me that he had one patient who was a little practice in himself . 
I determined there and then that he should prove a little profession to me , if we could but keep him alive between us . 
It was with this grin that he lay regarding me while the doctor held the blind . 
So you think you could look after me , do you ? I'm certain I could , sir . 
Single handed , mind ! I don't keep another soul . 
You would have to cook your own grub and my slops . 
Do you think you could do all that ? Yes , sir , I think so . 
Why do you ? Have you any experience of the kind ? No , sir , none . 
Then why do you pretend you have ? I only meant that I would do my best . 
Only meant , only meant ! Have you done your best at everything else , then ? I hung my head . 
And there was something in my invalid which thrust the unspoken lie down my throat . 
No , sir , I have not , I told him plainly . 
He , he , he ! the old wretch tittered and you do well to own it you do well , sir , very well indeed . 
If you hadn't owned up , out you would have gone , out neck and crop ! You've saved your bacon . 
So you are a public school boy , and a very good school yours is , but you weren't at either University . 
Is that correct ? Absolutely . 
What did you do when you left school ? I came in for money . 
And then ? I spent my money . 
And since then ? I stood like a mule . 
And since then , I say ! A relative of mine will tell you if you ask him . 
He is an eminent man , and he has promised to speak for me . 
I would rather say no more myself . 
Theobald , sir , you can go to the devil if you won't take a hint . 
This man may do or he may not . 
You have no more to say to it till I send him down to tell you one thing or the other . 
The bedroom door closed , then the outer one , and the doctor's heels went drumming down the common stair . 
I was alone in the flat with this highly singular and rather terrible old man . 
And a damned good riddance ! croaked the invalid , raising himself on one elbow without delay . 
I may not have much body left to boast about , but at least I've got a lost old soul to call my own . 
That's why I want a gentleman of sorts about me . 
I've been too dependent on that chap . 
He won't even let me smoke , and he's been in the flat all day to see I didn't . 
You'll find the cigarettes behind the Madonna of the Chair . 
It was a steel engraving of the great Raffaelle , and the frame was tilted from the wall at a touch a packet of cigarettes tumbled down from behind . 
Thanks and now a light . 
I struck the match and held it , while the invalid inhaled with normal lips and suddenly I sighed . 
I was irresistibly reminded of my poor dear old Raffles . 
A smoke ring worthy of the great A. J. was floating upward from the sick man's lips . 
And now take one yourself . 
I have smoked more poisonous cigarettes . 
But even these are not Sullivans ! I cannot repeat what I said . 
I have no idea what I did . 
The sea was on fire . 
I figured on that , and only hope it wasn't set down as a case of suicide . 
I shall get outed quite soon enough , Bunny , but I'd rather be dropped by the hangman than throw my own wicket away . 
I thought that time was the last ! It looked rather like it , Bunny . 
It was taking all the risks , and hitting at everything . 
But the game came off , and some day I'll tell you how . 
Oh , I'm in no hurry to hear . 
It's enough for me to see you lying there . 
I don't want to know how you came there , or why , though I fear you must be pretty bad . 
He had aged twenty years he looked fifty at the very least . 
His hair was white there was no trick about that and his face was another white . 
The lines about the corners of the eyes and mouth were both many and deep . 
On the other hand , the eyes themselves were alight and alert as ever they were still keen and gray and gleaming , like finely tempered steel . 
Even the mouth , with a cigarette to close it , was the mouth of Raffles and no other strong and unscrupulous as the man himself . 
Think I look much older ? he asked at length . 
A bit , I admitted . 
But it is chiefly your hair . 
Whereby hangs a tale for when we've talked ourselves out , though I have often thought it was that long swim that started it . 
Still , the Island of Elba is a rummy show , I can assure you . 
And Naples is a rummier ! You went there after all ? Rather ! It's the European paradise for such as our noble selves . 
But there's no place that's a patch on little London as a non conductor of heat it never need get too hot for a fellow here if it does it's his own fault . 
It's the kind of wicket you don't get out on , unless you get yourself out . 
So here I am again , and have been for the last six weeks . 
And I mean to have another knock . 
But are you all right , or are you not ? No , I'm half poisoned by Theobald's prescriptions and putrid cigarettes , and as weak as a cat from lying in bed . 
Then why on earth lie in bed , Raffles ? Because it's better than lying in gaol , as I am afraid YOU know , my poor dear fellow . 
I tell you I am dead and my one terror is of coming to life again by accident . 
Can't you see ? I simply dare not show my nose out of doors by day . 
You have no idea of the number of perfectly innocent things a dead man daren't do . 
I can't even smoke Sullivans , because no one man was ever so partial to them as I was in my lifetime , and you never know when you may start a clew . 
If it doesn't hit you hard , Bunny , you're the first . 
But it hit friend Theobald hardest of all . 
I'm an income to him . 
I believe he's going to marry on me . 
To do him justice , I believe he thinks me a hypochondriac of the first water but that young man will go far if he keeps on the wicket . 
He has spent half his nights up here , at guineas apiece . 
Guineas must be plentiful , old chap ! They have been , Bunny . 
But I don't see why they shouldn't be again . 
I was not going to inquire where the guineas came from . 
Raffles merely produced a perfect oval of blue smoke before replying . 
I was waiting for you to ask that , Bunny it's a long time since I did anything upon which I plume myself more . 
I was your only relative your name was not your own name if he insisted I would give him mine . 
He didn't insist , Bunny , and I danced down his stairs with your address in my pocket . 
Last night ? No , last week . 
As it was I made Raffles look at me as I had known him look before , and the droop of his eyelids began to sting . 
Why all this subtlety ? I petulantly exclaimed . 
Why couldn't you come straight away to me in a cab ? He did not inform me that I was hopeless as ever . 
He did not address me as his good rabbit . 
He was silent for a time , and then spoke in a tone which made me ashamed of mine . 
The old Australian doesn't know a soul in town he's got to be consistent , or he's done . 
This sitter Theobald is his only friend , and has seen rather too much of him ordinary dust won't do for his eyes . 
Meanwhile he eats out of my hand . 
Raffles was not surprised we had dined together at my relative's in the old days , and filed for reference a professional valuation of his household gods . 
But the adverse chances had been weeded out and weeded out to the irreducible minimum of risk . 
His room was the first as you entered the flat . 
The long inner wall divided the room not merely from the passage but from the outer landing as well . 
Thus every step upon the bare stone stairs could be heard by Raffles where he lay and he would never speak while one was ascending , until it had passed his door . 
The afternoon brought more than one applicant for the post which it was my duty to tell them that I had already obtained . 
Between three and four , however , Raffles , suddenly looking at his watch , packed me off in a hurry to the other end of London for my things . 
I'm afraid you must be famishing , Bunny . 
It's a fact that I eat very little , and that at odd hours , but I ought not to have forgotten you . 
Get yourself a snack outside , but not a square meal if you can resist one . 
We've got to celebrate this day this night ! To night ? I cried . 
To night at eleven , and Kellner's the place . 
You may well open your eyes , but we didn't go there much , if you remember , and the staff seems changed . 
Anyway we'll risk it for once . 
I was in last night , talking like a stage American , and supper's ordered for eleven sharp . 
You made as sure of me as all that ! There was no harm in ordering supper . 
We shall have it in a private room , but you may as well dress if you've got the duds . 
They're at my only forgiving relative's . 
How much will get them out , and square you up , and bring you back bag and baggage in good time ? I had to calculate . 
I had one ready for you . 
Here it is , and I wouldn't lose any time if I were you . 
On the way you might look up Theobald , tell him you've got it and how long you'll be gone , and that I can't be left alone all the time . 
That young man shall be out of the way to night . 
So you've got the billet , said Dr . 
Well , as I told you before , and as you have since probably discovered for yourself , you won't find it exactly a sinecure . 
But professional considerations are not the only ones , and one cannot make too many allowances in such a case . 
But what is the case ? I asked him . 
You said you would tell me if I was successful . 
Theobald's shrug was worthy of the profession he seemed destined to adorn it was not incompatible with any construction which one chose to put upon it . 
Next moment he had stiffened . 
I suppose I still spoke more or less like a gentleman . 
Yet , after all , I was only the male nurse . 
He seemed to remember this suddenly , and he took occasion to remind me of the fact . 
Beyond this I must refuse to discuss my patient for the present but I shall certainly go up if I can find time . 
He went up within five minutes . 
I found him there on my return at dusk . 
But he did not refuse my stall for the Lyceum , which Raffles would not allow me to use myself , and presented to him off hand without my leave . 
And don't you bother any more about me till to morrow , snapped the high thin voice as he was off . 
I can send for you now when I want you , and I'm hoping to have a decent night for once . 
III It was half past ten when we left the flat , in an interval of silence on the noisy stairs . 
The silence was unbroken by our wary feet . 
Yet for me a surprise was in store upon the very landing . 
Instead of going downstairs , Raffles led me up two flights , and so out upon a perfectly flat roof . 
There are two entrances to these mansions , he explained between stars and chimney stacks one to our staircase , and another round the corner . 
But there's only one porter , and he lives on the basement underneath us , and affects the door nearest home . 
We miss him by using the wrong stairs , and we run less risk of old Theobald . 
I got the tip from the postmen , who come up one way and down the other . 
However , we were soon upon the second staircase , which opened on the roof like the first . 
And twenty minutes of the next twenty five we spent in an admirable hansom , skimming east . 
Not much change in the old hole , Bunny . 
More of these magic lantern advertisements . 
More bicyclists , of course . 
That was just beginning , if you remember . 
It might have been useful to us . 
And there's the old club , getting put into a crate for the Jubilee by Jove , Bunny , we ought to be there . 
I wouldn't lean forward in Piccadilly , old chap . 
If you're seen I'm thought of , and we shall have to be jolly careful at Kellner's . 
Ah , there it is ! Did I tell you I was a low down stage Yankee at Kellner's ? You'd better be another , while the waiter's in the room . 
We had the little room upstairs and on the very threshold I , even I , who knew my Raffles of old , was taken horribly aback . 
The table was laid for three . 
I called his attention to it in a whisper . 
Why , yep ! came through his nose . 
Say , boy , the lady , she's not comin' , but you leave that tackle where 'tis . 
If I'm liable to pay , I guess I'll have all there is to it . 
I have never been in America , and the American public is the last on earth that I desire to insult but idiom and intonation alike would have imposed upon my inexperience . 
I had to look at Raffles to make sure that it was he who spoke , and I had my own reasons for looking hard . 
Who on earth was the lady ? I inquired aghast at the first opportunity . 
They don't like wasting this room on two , that's all . 
It was no mere meal , it was no coarse orgy , but a little feast for the fastidious gods , not unworthy of Lucullus at his worst . 
I was beginning to tell him so . 
I had done my honest best since my reappearance in the world but the world had done its worst by me . 
Show him up , said Raffles , laconically . 
And who is this ? I cried when the man was gone . 
Raffles reached across the table and gripped my arm in a vice . 
His eyes were steel points fixed on mine . 
Bunny , stand by me , said he in the old irresistible voice , a voice both stern and winning . 
Good evening , gentlemen , said he , at home and smiling . 
Sit down , drawled Raffles in casual response . 
Say , let me introduce you to Mr. Ezra B. Martin , of Shicawgo . 
Mr. Martin is my future brother in law . 
This is Mr. Robinson , Ezra , manager to Sparks Company , the cellerbrated joolers on Re gent Street . 
I pricked up my ears , but contented myself with a nod . 
I altogether distrusted my ability to live up to my new name and address . 
I figured on Miss Martin bein' right here , too , continued Raffles , but I regret to say she's not feelin' so good . 
We light out for Parrus on the A. M. train to morrer mornin' , and she guessed she'd be too dead . 
Sorry to disappoint you , Mr. Robinson but you'll see I'm advertisin' your wares . 
Raffles held his right hand under the electric light , and a diamond ring flashed upon his little finger . 
I could have sworn it was not there five minutes before . 
The tradesman had a disappointed face , but for a moment it brightened as he expatiated on the value of that ring and on the price his people had accepted for it . 
I was invited to guess the figure , but I shook a discreet head . 
I have seldom been more taciturn in my life . 
Forty five pounds , cried the jeweller and it would be cheap at fifty guineas . 
That's right , assented Raffles . 
That'd be dead cheap , I allow . 
But then , my boy , you gotten ready cash , and don't you forget it . 
I do not dwell upon my own mystification in all this . 
I merely pause to state that I was keenly enjoying that very element . 
Nothing could have been more typical of Raffles and the past . 
It was only my own attitude that was changed . 
It appeared that the mythical lady , my sister , had just become engaged to Raffles , who seemed all anxiety to pin her down with gifts of price . 
I could not quite gather whose gift to whom was the diamond ring but it had evidently been paid for and I voyaged to the moon , wondering when and how . 
I was recalled to this planet by a deluge of gems from the jeweller's bag . 
They lay alight in their cases like the electric lamps above . 
We all three put our heads together over them , myself without the slightest clew as to what was coming , but not unprepared for violent crime . 
One does not do eighteen months for nothing . 
Right away , Raffles was saying . 
We'll choose for her , and you'll change anything she don't like . 
Is that the idea ? That was my suggestion , sir . 
Then come on , Ezra . 
I guess you know Sadie's taste . 
And we chose lord ! What did we not choose ? There was her ring , a diamond half hoop . 
It cost L , and there was no attempt to get it for L . 
Then there was a diamond necklet two hundred guineas , but pounds accepted . 
That was to be the gift of the bridegroom . 
The wedding was evidently imminent . 
It behooved me to play a brotherly part . 
, but reckoned it was more than I could afford and sustained a vicious kick under the table for either verb . 
I was afraid to open my mouth on finally obtaining the star for the round hundred . 
And then the fat fell in the fire for pay we could not though a remittance was overdo from Noo York . 
But I don't know you , gentlemen , the jeweller exclaimed . 
I haven't even the name of your hotel ! I told you we was stoppin' with friends , said Raffles , who was not angry , though thwarted and crushed . 
But that's right , sir ! Oh , that's dead right , and I'm the last man to ask you to take Quixotic risks . 
I'm tryin' to figure a way out . 
Yes , SIR , that's what I'm tryin' to do . 
I wish you could , sir , the jeweller said , with feeling . 
It isn't as if we hadn't seen the color of your money . 
But that ain't fair don't you take no notice o' that . 
I'm tryin' to figure a way out . 
Yes , SIR ! He was smoking cigarettes out of a twenty five box the tradesman and I had cigars . 
Raffles sat frowning with a pregnant eye , and it was only too clear to me that his plans had miscarried . 
That again seemed unworthy of Raffles , and I , for my part , still sat prepared to spring any moment at our visitor's throat . 
We could mail you the money from Parrus , drawled Raffles at length . 
But how should we know you'd hold up your end of the string , and mail us the same articles we've selected to night ? The visitor stiffened in his chair . 
The name of his firm should be sufficient guarantee for that . 
I guess I'm no better acquainted with their name than they are with mine , remarked Raffles , laughing . 
See here , though ! I got a scheme . 
You pack 'em in this ! He turned the cigarettes out of the tin box , while the jeweller and I joined wondering eyes . 
Pack 'em in this , repeated Raffles , the three things we want , and never mind the boxes you can pack 'em in cotton wool . 
Then we'll ring for string and sealing wax , seal up the lot right here , and you can take 'em away in your grip . 
Ring the bell , Ezra , and we'll see if they've gotten any sealing wax and string . 
They had and the thing was done . 
This temptation , however , he ultimately overcame , to the other's chagrin . 
The cigarette box was tied up , and the string sealed , oddly enough , with the diamond of the ring that had been bought and paid for . 
I'll chance you having another ring in the store the dead spit of mine , laughed Raffles , as he relinquished the box , and it disappeared into the tradesman's bag . 
And now , Mr. Robinson , I hope you'll appreciate my true hospitality in not offering you any thing to drink while business was in progress . 
That's Chateau Margaux , sir , and I should judge it's what you'd call an eighteen carat article . 
I could make neither head nor tail of Raffles's dealings with the man from Regent Street , and was naturally inquisitive as to the meaning of it all . 
You rabbit ! said he . 
Why couldn't you wait till we got home ? Why couldn't you tell me what you were going to do ? I retorted as of yore . 
And pray what was it ? That , said Raffles , and he smacked the cigarette box down upon the mantelpiece . 
It flew open from the force of the impact . 
Duplicate boxes , my brainy Bunny . 
One was already packed and weighted , and in my pocket . 
Nice boxes , aren't they ? I only wished they contained a better cigarette but a notorious brand was essential a box of Sullivans would have brought me to life to morrow . 
But they oughtn't to open it to morrow . 
Nor will they , as a matter of fact . 
Meanwhile , Bunny , I may call upon you to dispose of the boodle . 
I'm on for any mortal thing ! My voice rang true , I swear , but it was the way of Raffles to take the evidence of as many senses as possible . 
I felt the cold steel of his eyes through mine and through my brain . 
But what he saw seemed to satisfy him no less than what he heard , for his hand found my hand , and pressed it with a fervor foreign to the man . 
I know you are , and I knew you would be . 
Only remember , Bunny , it's my turn next to pay the shot ! You shall hear how he paid it when the time came . 
A JUBILEE PRESENT The Room of Gold , in the British Museum , is probably well enough known to the inquiring alien and the travelled American . 
A true Londoner , however , I myself had never heard of it until Raffles casually proposed a raid . 
The older I grow , Bunny , the less I think of your so called precious stones . 
When did they ever bring in half their market value in L. s . 
There was the first little crib we ever cracked together you with your innocent eyes shut . 
A thousand pounds that stuff was worth but how many hundreds did it actually fetch . 
The Ardagh emeralds weren't much better old Lady Melrose's necklace was far worse but that little lot the other night has about finished me . 
Besides , that brings you up against the Fence once more , and I'm done with the beggars for good and all . 
You talk about your editors and publishers , you literary swine . 
Barabbas was neither a robber nor a publisher , but a six barred , barbed wired , spike topped Fence . 
What we really want is an Incorporated Society of Thieves , with some public spirited old forger to run it for us on business lines . 
The stars shone overhead , the lights of London underneath , and between the lips of Raffles a cigarette of the old and only brand . 
I had sent in secret for a box of the best the boon had arrived that night and the foregoing speech was the first result . 
I could afford to ignore the insolent asides , however , where the apparent contention was so manifestly unsound . 
And how are you going to get rid of your gold ? said I , pertinently . 
Nothing easier , my dear rabbit . 
Is your Room of Gold a roomful of sovereigns ? Raffles laughed softly at my scorn . 
No , Bunny , it's principally in the shape of archaic ornaments , whose value , I admit , is largely extrinsic . 
But gold is gold , from Phoenicia to Klondike , and if we cleared the room we should eventually do very well . 
How ? I should melt it down into a nugget , and bring it home from the U. S. A. to morrow . 
And then ? Make them pay up in hard cash across the counter of the Bank of England . 
And you CAN make them . 
And how do you propose to get enough away , at length I asked , to make it worth while ? Ah , there you have it , said Raffles . 
I only propose to reconnoitre the ground , to see what we can see . 
We might find some hiding place for a night that , I am afraid , would be our only chance . 
Have you ever been there before ? Not since they got the one good , portable piece which I believe that they exhibit now . 
It's a long time since I read of it I can't remember where but I know they have got a gold cup of sorts worth several thousands . 
A number of the immorally rich clubbed together and presented it to the nation and two of the richly immoral intend to snaffle it for themselves . 
At any rate we might go and have a look at it , Bunny , don't you think ? Think ! I seized his arm . 
When ? When ? When ? I asked , like a quick firing gun . 
The sooner the better , while old Theobald's away on his honeymoon . 
There were reasons , delightfully obvious to us , why such a plan would have been highly unwise in Dr . 
I , however , was sending him daily screeds , and both matutinal and nocturnal telegrams , the composition of which afforded Raffles not a little enjoyment . 
Well , then , when when ? I began to repeat . 
To morrow , if you like . 
Only to look ? The limitation was my one regret . 
We must do so , Bunny , before we leap . 
Very well , I sighed . 
But to morrow it is ! And the morrow it really was . 
I saw the porter that night , and , I still think , bought his absolute allegiance for the second coin of the realm . 
My story , however , invented by Raffles , was sufficiently specious in itself . 
, was really , or apparently , sickening for fresh air . 
Theobald would allow him none he was pestering me for just one day in the country while the glorious weather lasted . 
I was myself convinced that no possible harm could come of the experiment . 
Would the porter help me in so innocent and meritorious an intrigue ? The man hesitated . 
I produced my half sovereign . 
from Harrod's Stores for the occasion . 
The Diamond Jubilee was upon us , and Queen's weather had already set in . 
I recognized some habitual Readers going to their labor underneath the dome of mere visitors we seemed among the first . 
That's the room , said Raffles , who had bought the two penny guide , as we studied it openly on the nearest bench number , upstairs and sharp round to the right . 
A hundred and thirty nine yards from this to the open street , said Raffles , not counting the stairs . 
I suppose we COULD do it in twenty seconds , but if we did we should have to jump the gates . 
No , you must remember to loaf out at slow march , Bunny , whether you like it or not . 
But you talked about a hiding place for a night ? Quite so for all night . 
We should have to get back , go on lying low , and saunter out with the crowd next day after doing the whole show thoroughly . 
It is none of my business to describe the so called Room of Gold , with which I , for one , was not a little disappointed . 
is assuredly that very cup of which Raffles had spoken . 
Moreover , he felt this himself . 
It may have been the thing of beauty that Raffles affected to consider it , but I for my part was in no mood to look at it in that light . 
Those are scenes from the martyrdom of St . 
one of the finest specimens of its kind . 
I wonder if we could lift it , Bunny , by hook or crook ? You'd better try , sir , said a dry voice at his elbow . 
The madman seemed to think we had the room to ourselves . 
I knew better , but , like another madman , had let him ramble on unchecked . 
And here was a stolid constable confronting us , in the short tunic that they wear in summer , his whistle on its chain , but no truncheon at his side . 
Heavens ! how I see him now a man of medium size , with a broad , good humored , perspiring face , and a limp moustache . 
He looked sternly at Raffles , and Raffles looked merrily at him . 
Going to run me in , officer ? said he . 
That WOULD be a joke my hat ! I didn't say as I was , sir , replied the policeman . 
It's one of the most beautiful things I ever saw in all my life . 
The constable's face had already relaxed , and now a grin peeped under the limp moustache . 
I daresay there's many as feels like that , sir , said he . 
Exactly and I say what I feel , that's all , said Raffles airily . 
Raffles studied his face he was still watching Raffles and I kept an eye on them both without putting in my word . 
You appear to be single handed , observed Raffles . 
And , to be sure , the three of us now had this treasury to ourselves one or two others had been there when we entered but now they were gone . 
I'm not single handed , said the officer , comfortably . 
See that seat by the door ? One of the attendants sits there all day long . 
Then where is he now ? Talking to another attendant just outside . 
If you listen you'll hear them for yourself . 
We listened , and we did hear them , but not just outside . 
In my own mind I even questioned whether they were in the corridor through which we had come to me it sounded as though they were just outside the corridor . 
You mean the fellow with the billiard cue who was here when we came in ? pursued Raffles . 
That wasn't a billiard cue ! It was a pointer , the intelligent officer explained . 
It ought to be a javelin , said Raffles , nervously . 
It ought to be a poleaxe ! The public treasure ought to be better guarded than this . 
Lor' bless you , sir , said he , I'm all right don't you bother your head about ME . 
But you haven't even got a truncheon ! Not likely to want one either . 
You see , sir , it's early as yet in a few minutes these here rooms will fill up and there's safety in numbers , as they say . 
Oh , it will fill up soon , will it ? Any minute now , sir . 
Ah ! It isn't often empty as long as this , sir . 
It's the Jubilee , I suppose . 
Well , I shall write to the Times , all the same . 
I'm a connoisseur in all this sort of thing , and I won't have unnecessary risks run with the nation's property . 
You said there was an attendant just outside , but he sounds to me as though he were at the other end of the corridor . 
I shall write to day ! For an instant we all three listened and Raffles was right . 
Then I saw two things in one glance . 
Raffles had stepped a few inches backward , and stood poised upon the ball of each foot , his arms half raised , a light in his eyes . 
And another kind of light was breaking over the crass features of our friend the constable . 
Then shall I tell you what I'LL do ? he cried , with a sudden clutch at the whistle chain on his chest . 
The whistle flew out , but it never reached his lips . 
There were a couple of sharp smacks , like double barrels discharged all but simultaneously , and the man reeled against me so that I could not help catching him as he fell . 
Mechanically I did as I was told . 
Even in my utter bewilderment , however , the instinctive caution of the real criminal did not desert me . 
It was hot weather , as I have said , but the perspiration on my body seemed already to have turned into a skin of ice . 
Ah , very interesting , very interesting , but nothing to what they have in the museum at Naples or in Pompeii itself . 
You must go there some day , Bunny . 
I've a good mind to take you myself . 
Meanwhile slow march ! The beggar hasn't moved an eyelid . 
We may swing for him if you show indecent haste ! We ! I whispered . 
We ! And my knees knocked together as we came up to the chatting attendants . 
But Raffles must needs interrupt them to ask the way to the Prehistoric Saloon . 
At the top of the stairs . 
Then we'll work round that way to the Egyptian part . 
And we left them resuming their providential chat . 
I believe you're mad , I said bitterly as we went . 
I believe I was , admitted Raffles but I'm not now , and I'll see you through . 
A hundred and thirty nine yards , wasn't it ? Then it can't be more than a hundred and twenty now not as much . 
Steady , Bunny , for God's sake . 
It's SLOW march for our lives . 
There was this much management . 
The rest was our colossal luck . 
A hansom was being paid off at the foot of the steps outside , and in we jumped , Raffles shouting Charing Cross ! for all Bloomsbury to hear . 
We had turned into Bloomsbury Street without exchanging a syllable when he struck the trap door with his fist . 
Where the devil are you driving us ? Charing Cross , sir . 
But it always was your infernal way , I was savagely concluding . 
It was to be the mere reconnoitre you pretended ? There was no pretence about it , Bunny . 
Then why on earth go and do what you did ? The reason would be obvious to anyone but you , said Raffles , still with no unkindly scorn . 
It was the temptation of a minute the final impulse of the fraction of a second , when Roberto saw that I was tempted , and let me see that he saw it . 
It's not a thing I care to do , and I sha'n't be happy till the papers tell me the poor devil is alive . 
But a knock out shot was the only chance for us then . 
It was a gift from the gods not to have taken it would have been flying in the face of Providence . 
But you didn't take it , said I. You went and left it behind . 
All this time he had been wearing his hat , tilted a little over eyebrows no longer raised . 
And now at last I knew where the gold cup was . 
The cup itself appealed to me no more than it had done before . 
Exquisite it might be , handsome it was , but so light in the hand that the mere gold of it would scarcely have poured three figures out of melting pot . 
And what said Raffles but that he would never melt it at all ! Taking it was an offence against the laws of the land , Bunny . 
But destroying it would be a crime against God and Art , and may I be spitted on the vane of St . 
This was not a little enhanced by the newspaper reports , which described Raffles as a handsome youth , and his unwilling accomplice as an older man of blackguardly appearance and low type . 
Hits us both off rather neatly , Bunny , said he . 
But what none of them do justice to is my dear cup . 
Look at it only look at it , man ! Was ever anything so rich and yet so chaste ? St . 
Agnes must have had a pretty bad time , but it would be almost worth it to go down to posterity in such enamel upon such gold . 
And then the history of the thing . 
And suppose other eyes catch sight of it ? They never must they never shall . 
At last , however , and at the height of his craze , Raffles and reason seemed to come together again as suddenly as they had parted company in the Room of Gold . 
Bunny , he cried , flinging his newspaper across the room , I've got an idea after your own heart . 
I know where I can place it after all ! Do you mean the cup ? I do . 
Upon the recovery of your senses . 
But you've been confoundedly unsympathetic about this thing , Bunny , and I don't think I shall tell you my scheme till I've carried it out . 
Quite time enough , said I. It will mean your letting me loose for an hour or two under cloud of this very night . 
To morrow's Sunday , the Jubilee's on Tuesday , and old Theobald's coming back for it . 
It doesn't much matter whether he's back or not if you go late enough . 
No , it's no use your asking any questions . 
Go out and buy me a big box of Huntley Palmer's biscuits any sort you like , only they must be theirs , and absolutely the biggest box they sell . 
My dear man ! No questions , Bunny you do your part and I'll do mine . 
Subtlety and success were in his face . 
It was enough for me , and I had done his extraordinary bidding within a quarter of an hour . 
In another minute Raffles had opened the box and tumbled all the biscuits into the nearest chair . 
Now newspapers ! I fetched a pile . 
He bid the cup of gold a ridiculous farewell , wrapped it up in newspaper after newspaper , and finally packed it in the empty biscuit box . 
I don't want to be taken for the grocer's young man . 
And the sun was still up . 
But Raffles would go , and when he did I should not have known him myself . 
He may have been an hour away . 
It was barely dusk when he returned , and my first question referred to our dangerous ally , the porter . 
Raffles had passed him unsuspected in going , but had managed to avoid him altogether on the return journey , which he had completed by way of the other entrance and the roof . 
And what have you done with the cup ? Placed it ! How much for ? How much for ? Let me think . 
I had a couple of cabs , and the postage was a tanner , with another twopence for registration . 
Yes , it cost me exactly five and eight . 
IT cost YOU ! But what did you GET for it , Raffles ? Nothing , my boy . 
Nothing ! Not a crimson cent . 
I never thought it had a market value . 
I told you so in the beginning , I said , irritably . 
But what on earth have you done with the thing ? Sent it to the Queen . 
Well , I've sent it to Sir Arthur Bigge , to present to her Majesty , with the loyal respects of the thief , if that will do for you , said Raffles . 
I thought they might take too much stock of me at the G. P. O. if I addressed it to the Sovereign her self . 
Yes , I drove over to St . 
Martin's le Grand with it , and I registered the box into the bargain . 
Do a thing properly if you do it at all . 
The world is taking the present opportunity of signifying the fact for all it is worth . 
Every nation is laying of its best at her royal feet every class in the community is doing its little level except ours . 
All I have done is to remove one reproach from our fraternity . 
And I didn't write a word upon a sheet of paper which could possibly be traced . 
I simply printed two or three on a virginal post card another half penny to the bad which might have been bought at any post office in the kingdom . 
No , old chap , the G. P. O. was the one real danger there was one detective I spotted for myself and the sight of him has left me with a thirst . 
Whisky and Sullivans for two , Bunny , if you please . 
Raffles was soon clinking his glass against mine . 
The Queen , said he . 
It was in the early heat of August , and the hour that of the lawful and necessary siesta for such as turn night into day . 
Theobald confined him from morning to night . 
Don't do that , Bunny , said he . 
I rather like that thing , and want to listen . 
Dirty looking beggars , said I over my shoulder dark as dark blue chins , oleaginous curls , and ear rings ragged as they make them , but nothing picturesque in their rags . 
Neapolitans all over , murmured Raffles behind me and that's a characteristic touch , the one fellow singing while the other grinds they always have that out there . 
He's rather a fine chap , the singer , said I , as the song ended . 
It was a couple of half crowns that Raffles put into my hand , but I had thrown them into the street for pennies before I saw what they were . 
Thereupon I left the Italians bowing to the mud , as well they might , and I turned to protest against such wanton waste . 
But Raffles was walking up and down , his head bent , his eyes troubled and his one excuse disarmed remonstrance . 
They took me back , he repeated . 
My God , how they took me back ! Suddenly he stopped in his stride . 
You don't understand , Bunny , old chap but if you like you shall . 
I always meant to tell you some day , but never felt worked up to it before , and it's not the kind of thing one talks about for talking's sake . 
This was promising , but Raffles's manner was something more . 
It was unique in my memory of the man . 
His fine face softened and set hard by turns . 
I never knew it so hard . 
I never knew it so soft . 
And the same might be said of his voice , now tender as any woman's , now flying to the other extreme of equally unwonted ferocity . 
Deadly , my dear Bunny , is not the word for that glorified snag , or for the mollusks , its inhabitants . 
But they started by wounding my vanity , so perhaps I am prejudiced , after all . 
I didn't have to pick and steal for a square meal and a pair of trousers it would have been more exciting if I had . 
But what a place ! Napoleon couldn't stand it , you remember , but he held on longer than I did . 
The tramp was bound for Naples , but first it touched at Baiae , where I carefully deserted in the night . 
There are too many English in Naples itself , though I thought it would make a first happy hunting ground when I knew the language better and had altered myself a bit more . 
Meanwhile I got a billet of several sorts on one of the loveliest spots that ever I struck on all my travels . 
The place was a vineyard , but it overhung the sea , and I got taken on as tame sailorman and emergency bottle washer . 
And for eight whole months , my boy , I was an absolutely honest man . 
It was the kind of place where every prospect pleases and all the rest of it especially all the rest . 
But may I see it in my dreams till I die as it was in the beginning before anything began to happen . 
The tub took the wine to Naples , and the dingy was the tub's tender . 
I never was much of an antiquary , but I could have become one there if I'd had nothing else to do but I had lots . 
He made a sudden pause , as though he had stumbled on the truth in jest . 
His face filled with lines . 
This afternoon we felt fairly safe , for Theobald had called in the morning , and Mrs. Theobald still took up much of his time . 
Through the open window we could hear the piano organ and Mar gar ri a few hundred yards further on . 
I fancied Raffles was listening to it while he paused . 
He shook his head abstractedly when I handed him the cigarettes and his tone hereafter was never just what it had been . 
I don't know , Bunny , whether you're a believer in transmigration of souls . 
It was said that the vineyard was only his hobby if so , he did his best to make his hobby pay . 
He used to come out from Naples for the week ends in the tub when it wasn't too rough for his nerves and he didn't always come alone . 
His very name sounded unhealthy Corbucci . 
I suppose I ought to add that he was a Count , though Counts are two a penny in Naples , and in season all the year round . 
My poor Eve ! And he fetched a sigh that took away his words then his jaws snapped together , and his eyes spoke terribly while he conquered his emotion . 
I pen the last word advisedly . 
I called the girl Eve , said he . 
Her real name was Faustina , and she was one of a vast family who hung out in a hovel on the inland border of the vineyard . 
I tell you , Bunny , London would go mad about a girl like that . 
But I don't believe there's such another in the world . 
And there she was wasting her sweetness upon that lovely but desolate little corner of it ! Well , she did not waste it upon me . 
I would have married her , and lived happily ever after in such a hovel as her people's with her . 
Then the sea would call us my blue champagne my sparkling cobalt and there was the dingy ready to our hand . 
I don't mind owning it . 
We seemed not to have a care between us . 
My mates took no interest in my affairs , and Faustina's family did not appear to bother about her . 
The Count was in Naples five nights of the seven the other two we sighed apart . 
At first it was the oldest story in literature Eden plus Eve . 
The place had been a heaven on earth before , but now it was heaven itself . 
And that was almost as old a story as the other . 
No , but what did matter was that the man had threatened to stab her to the heart and would do it as soon as look at her that I knew . 
I knew it merely from my knowledge of the Neapolitans , for I had no idea who the man might be . 
I knew it , and yet I took this detail better than the fact of the engagement , though now I began to laugh at both . 
But we had not a lira between us at the time , and only the rags in which we sat barefoot in the boat . 
Besides , I had to know the name of the animal who had threatened a woman , and such a woman as this . 
For a long time she refused to tell me , with splendid obduracy but I was as determined as she so at last she made conditions . 
I was not to go and get put in prison for sticking a knife into him he wasn't worth it and I did promise not to stab him in the back . 
Faustina seemed quite satisfied , though a little puzzled by my manner , having herself the racial tolerance for cold steel and next moment she had taken away my breath . 
'It is Stefano , she whispered , and hung her head . 
His face was enough for me that was what I read in it , and I don't often make mistakes . 
But I questioned her as gently as I could and her explanation was largely the thread bare one you would expect . 
Her parents were so poor . 
They were so many in family . 
Some of them begged would I promise never to tell ? Then some of them stole sometimes and all knew the pains of actual want . 
Then he was so rich , Stefano . 
'Stefano ? 'Si , Arturo mio . 
Yes , I played the game on that vineyard , Bunny , even to going my own first name . 
'And how comes he to be rich ? I asked , suspiciously . 
But I cared nothing about all that . 
'Jewels ! Stefano ! I could only mutter . 
'Perhaps the Count has paid for some of them . 
'To you , is he ? 'Oh , yes , very kind . 
'And you would live in his house afterwards ? 'Not now , mia cara not now ! 'No , by God you don't ! said I in English . 
'But you would have done so , eh ? 'Of course . 
The Count is really very kind . 
Knowing the men , I now knew all . 
She was not to know what I was , remember and beside Corbucci and his henchman I was the Archangel Gabriel come down to earth . 
On that couplet I slept at last , and it was my text and watchword when I awoke in the morning . 
I forget how well you know your Swinburne , Bunny but don't you run away with the idea that there was anything else in common between his Faustine and mine . 
For the last time let me tell you that poor Faustina was the whitest and the best I ever knew . 
Well , I was strung up for trouble when the next Saturday came , and I'll tell you what I had done . 
I had broken the pledge and burgled Corbucci's villa in my best manner during his absence in Naples . 
Not that it gave me the slightest trouble but no human being could have told that I had been in , when I came out . 
They are spry enough with a knife , but you show them the business end of a shooting iron , and they'll streak like rabbits for the nearest hole . 
But the revolver wasn't for my own use . 
It was for Faustina , and I taught her how to use it in the cave down there by the sea , shooting at candles stuck upon the rock . 
The noise in the cave was something frightful , but high up above it couldn't be heard at all , as we proved to each other's satisfaction pretty early in the proceedings . 
So now Faustina was armed with munitions of self defence and I knew enough of her character to entertain no doubt as to their spirited use upon occasion . 
Between the two of us , in fact , our friend Stefano seemed tolerably certain of a warm week end . 
There was no further merit in hushing this thing up . 
'Let him who wins her take and keep Faustine . 
I had no inducement , remember , ever to return to surreptitious life within a cab fare of Wormwood Scrubbs . 
Faustina and the Bay of Naples were quite good enough for me . 
And the prehistoric man in me rather exulted in the idea of fighting for my desire . 
He was not given to exacting overtime , this direttore , whose only fault was his servile subjection to our common boss . 
And it was he admitted it with many shrugs , being a conveniently weak person , whom one felt almost ashamed of bullying as the occasion demanded . 
Well , the Count was going to take his jackal's part for all he was worth , which was just exactly what I had expected him to do . 
I undertook not to give the poor beast away , but at the same time told him I had not the faintest intention of doing another stroke of work that night . 
But at the back of the villa was the garden I spoke about , and also a bare chunk of the cliff where it was bored by that subterranean stair . 
And that was the last time I appreciated the unique and peaceful charm of this outlandish spot . 
I won't swear to my quotation , but I will to those stairs . 
They were as black that night as the inside of the safest safe in the strongest strong room in the Chancery Lane Deposit . 
Yet I had not got far down them with my bare feet before I heard somebody else coming up in boots . 
What a fright she must have had ! And all at once my own blood ran cold for the man sang like a kettle as he plodded up and up . 
I should have enjoyed the situation if it had not been for poor Faustina in the cave as it was I was filled with nameless fears . 
But I could not resist giving that grampus Corbucci one bad moment on account . 
I let him go a few steps higher , and then I let him have it with both lungs . 
Buona sera , eccellenza , signori ! I roared after him . 
And a scream came down in answer such a scream ! A dozen different terrors were in it and the wheezing had stopped , with the old scoundrel's heart . 
He didn't repeat my name , nor did he damn me in heaps . 
He did nothing but wheeze for a good minute , and when he spoke it was with insinuating civility , in his best English . 
You are in the lower regions down there . 
I want to speak with you . 
I'm in a hurry , I said , and dropped that match back into my pocket . 
He might be armed , and I was not . 
'So you are in a 'urry ! and he wheezed amusement . 
I have been rowed here now by a fisherman of Pozzuoli . 
I had not time to stop anywhere in Naples , but only to drive from station to station . 
So I am without Stefano , Arturo , I am without Stefano . 
His sly voice sounded preternaturally sly in the absolute darkness , but even through that impenetrable veil I knew it for a sham . 
I had laid hold of the hand rail . 
It shook violently in my hand he also was holding it where he stood . 
And these suppressed tremors , or rather their detection in this way , struck a strange chill to my heart , just as I was beginning to pluck it up . 
'It is lucky for Stefano , said I , grim as death . 
'Ah , but you must not be too 'ard on 'im , remonstrated the Count . 
'You have stole his girl , he speak with me about it , and I wish to speak with you . 
It is very audashuss , Arturo , very audashuss ! Perhaps you are even going to meet her now , eh ? I told him straight that I was . 
'Then there is no 'urry , for she is not there . 
'You didn't see her in the cave ? I cried , too delighted at the thought to keep it to myself . 
'I had no such fortune , the old devil said . 
'She is there , all the same . 
'I only wish I 'ad known . 
'And I've kept her long enough ! In fact I threw this over my shoulder as I turned and went running down . 
'I 'ope you will find her ! his malicious voice came croaking after me . 
'I 'ope you will I 'ope so . 
And find her I did . 
Raffles had been on his feet some time , unable to sit still or to stand , moving excitedly about the room . 
But now he stood still enough , his elbows on the cast iron mantelpiece , his head between his hands . 
And he nodded to the wall . 
There was not a sound in the cave . 
There was no answer to my voice . 
Then I went in , and my foot touched hers , and it was colder than the rock . 
Bunny , they had stabbed her to the heart . 
She had fought them , and they had stabbed her to the heart ! You say 'they , I said gently , as he stood in heavy silence , his back still turned . 
I thought Stefano had been left behind ? Raffles was round in a flash , his face white hot , his eyes dancing death . 
He was in the cave ! he shouted . 
I saw him I spotted him it was broad twilight after those stairs and I went for him with my bare hands . 
Not fists , Bunny not fists for a thing like that I meant getting my fingers into his vile little heart and tearing it out by the roots . 
But he had the revolver hers . 
He blazed it at arm's length , and missed . 
'And I can spare you two or three more , I said , for my poor girl could not have fired a shot . 
'Take that one to hell with you and that and that ! Then I started coughing and wheezing like the Count himself , for the place was full of smoke . 
When it cleared my man was very dead , and I tipped him into the sea , to defile that rather than Faustina's cave . 
I could say good by to her without that . 
Bunny , I can't tell you any more . 
Not of the Count ? I murmured at last . 
Not even of the Count , said Raffles , turning round with a sigh . 
I left him pretty sorry for himself but what was the good of that ? I had taken blood for blood , and it was not Corbucci who had killed Faustina . 
No , the plan was his , but that was not part of the plan . 
They had found out about our meetings in the cave nothing simpler than to have me kept hard at it overhead and to carry off Faustina by brute force in the boat . 
It was their only chance , for she had said more to Stefano than she had admitted to me , and more than I am going to repeat about myself . 
Oh , said he , I had it from Corbucci at his own revolver's point . 
He was waiting at his window , and I could have potted him at my ease where he stood against the light listening hard enough but not seeing a thing . 
So he asked whether it was Stefano , and I whispered , 'Si , signore' and then whether he had finished Arturo , and I brought the same shot off again . 
He had let me in before he knew who was finished and who was not . 
And did you finish him ? No that was too good for Corbucci . 
But I bound and gagged him about as tight as man was ever gagged or bound , and I left him in his room with the shutters shut and the house locked up . 
Meanwhile he was supposed to be in Rome . 
But the dead would doubtless be discovered next day , and I am afraid this would lead to his own discovery with the life still in him . 
I believe he figured on that himself , for he sat threatening me gamely till the last . 
But I locked him up in the dark without a qualm , and I wished and still wish him every torment of the damned . 
That's better than any hold , Bunny , and I did splendidly on oranges brought from the vineyard . 
And at Genoa ? At Genoa I took to my wits once more , and have been living on nothing else ever since . 
But there I had to begin all over again , and at the very bottom of the ladder . 
I slept in the streets . 
I did all manner of terrible things , rather hoping for a bad end , but never coming to one . 
So I had come to that ! But one reflection makes many . 
I had not recognized myself who on earth would recognize me ? London called me and here I am . 
Italy had broken my heart and there it stays . 
That they were no mere words I know full well . 
That , but for the tragedy of his Italian life , that life would have sufficed him for years , if not for ever , I did and do still believe . 
Instead of deepening , his lines had vanished . 
He looked years younger , mischievous and merry and alert as I remembered him of old in the breathless crisis of some madcap escapade . 
I half thought they were after me before , said he . 
That was why I made you look . 
No , I fear an enemy nowadays , and I go in terror of the sometime friend , but I have the utmost confidence in the dear police . 
Then whom do you mean ? The Camorra ! I repeated the word with a different intonation . 
It was one of Corbucci's threats , said he . 
He is probably a member himself ! Obviously , from what he said . 
But why on earth should you think that these fellows are ? I demanded , as that brazen voice came rasping through a second verse . 
It was only an idea . 
That thing is so thoroughly Neapolitan , and I never heard it on a London organ before . 
And why ? cried Raffles , his eyes dancing when I told him . 
Why should they come sneaking back to us ? Doesn't that look suspicious , Bunny doesn't that promise a lark ? Not to me , I said , having the smile for once . 
His blank face confessed the fact . 
Then suddenly he burst outlaughing at himself . 
Bunny , said he , you've no imagination , and I never knew I had so much ! Of course you're right . 
I only wish you were not , for there's nothing I should enjoy more than taking on another Neapolitan or two . 
You see , I owe them something still ! I didn't settle in full . 
I need not say how heartily I disagree with that truly pious opinion . 
So far from admitting a single word of it , I maintain it is the liveliest warning that I am giving to the world . 
Raffles was a genius , and he could not make it pay ! Raffles had invention , resource , incomparable audacity , and a nerve in ten thousand . 
He was both strategian and tactician , and we all now know the difference between the two . 
Then thus far our rewards had oftener than not been no reward at all . 
Altogether it was a very different story from the old festive , unsuspected , club and cricket days , with their noctes ambrosianae at the Albany . 
And now , in addition to the eternal peril of recognition , there was yet another menace of which I knew nothing . 
I thought no more of our Neapolitan organ grinders , though I did often think of the moving page that they had torn for me out of my friend's strange life in Italy . 
I heard no more of it , and thought as little , as I say . 
Then one night in the autumn I shrink from shocking the susceptible for nothing but there was a certain house in Palace Gardens , and when we got there Raffles would pass on . 
I could see no soul in sight , no glimmer in the windows . 
But Raffles had my arm , and on we went without talking about it . 
Pyjamas first , said Raffles , with as much authority as though it mattered . 
It was a warm night , however , though September , and I did not mind until I came in clad as he commanded to find the autocrat himself still booted and capped . 
He was peeping through the blind , and the gas was still turned down . 
But he said that I could turn it up , as he helped himself to a cigarette and nothing with it . 
May I mix you one ? said I. No , thanks . 
What's the trouble ? We were followed . 
Never ! You never saw it . 
But YOU never looked round . 
I have an eye at the back of each ear , Bunny . 
I helped myself and I fear with less moderation than might have been the case a minute before . 
So that was why That was why , said Raffles , nodding but he did not smile , and I put down my glass untouched . 
They were following us then ! All up Palace Gardens . 
I thought you wound about coming back over the hill . 
Nevertheless , one of them's in the street below at this moment . 
No , he was not fooling me . 
And he had not taken off a thing perhaps he did not think it worth while . 
Plain clothes ? I sighed , following the sartorial train of thought , even to the loathly arrows that had decorated my person once already for a little aeon . 
Next time they would giveme double . 
The skilly was in my stomach when I saw Raffles's face . 
Who said it was the police , Bunny ? said he . 
They're only after me they won't hurt a hair of YOUR head , let alone cropping it ! Have a drink , and don't mind me . 
I shall score them off before I'm done . 
And I'll help you ! No , old chap , you won't . 
This is my own little show . 
I've known about it for weeks . 
That's the Camorra all over , from all accounts . 
The Count I told you about is pretty high up in it , by the way he spoke , but there will be grades and grades between him and the organ grinders . 
I shouldn't be surprised if he had every low down Neapolitan ice creamer in the town upon my tracks ! The organization's incredible . 
Then do you remember the superior foreigner who came to the door a few days afterwards ? You said he had velvet eyes . 
I never connected him with those two ! Of course you didn't , Bunny , so you threatened to kick the fellow downstairs , and only made them keener on the scent . 
It was too late to say anything when you told me . 
But the very next time I showed my nose outside I heard a camera click as I passed , and the fiend was a person with velvet eyes . 
Then there was a lull that happened weeks ago . 
They had sent me to Italy for identification by Count Corbucci . 
But this is all theory , I exclaimed . 
How on earth can you know ? I don't know , said Raffles , but I should like to bet . 
Our friend the bloodhound is hanging about the corner near the pillar box look through my window , it's dark in there , and tell me who he is . 
It's the fellow , I said , returning to Raffles , and I described his boots . 
Well done , Bunny you're coming on , said he . 
But it's no use speculating . 
How can you ? He won't stay there all night . 
Well ? When he gets tired of it I shall return the compliment and follow HIM . 
Not alone , said I , firmly . 
We'll see at once , said Raffles , rising . 
Out with the gas , Bunny , while I take a look . 
yes ! He's chucked it he's off already and so am I ! But I slipped to our outer door , and held the passage . 
I don't let you go alone , you know . 
You can't come with me in pyjamas . 
Now I see why you made me put them on ! Bunny , if you don't shift I shall have to shift you . 
This is my very own private one man show . 
But I'll be back in an hour there ! You swear ? By all my gods . 
I let him go with a shrug and my blessing , then ran into his room to see the last of him from the window . 
And Raffles was after him at an easy pace , and had himself almost reached the corner when my attention was distracted from the alert nonchalance of his gait . 
His steps were the short and shuffling ones of a man advanced in years and in fatty degeneration , but of a sudden they stopped beneath my very eyes . 
I could have dropped a marble into the dinted crown of the black felt hat . 
Then , at the same moment , Raffles turned the corner without looking round , and the big man below raised both his hands and his face . 
I did not stop to consider the subtleties of the system by which the real hunter lagged behind while his subordinate pointed the quarry like a sporting dog . 
I left the Count shuffling onward faster than before , and I jumped into some clothes as though the flats were on fire . 
If the Count was going to follow Raffles in his turn , then I would follow the Count in mine , and there would be a midnight procession of us through the town . 
Took a hansom , said he at length . 
A hansom ! Then he was not following the others on foot there was no guessing his game . 
But something must be said or done . 
He's a friend of mine , I explained , and I want to overtake him . 
I must tell Raffles who it was that I had seen the Earl's Court Road was long , and the time since he vanished in it but a few short minutes . 
I drove down the length of that useful thoroughfare , with an eye apiece on either pavement , sweeping each as with a brush , but never a Raffles came into the pan . 
Then I tried the Fulham Road , first to the west , then to the east , and in the end drove home to the flat as bold as brass . 
I did not realize my indiscretion until I had paid the man and was on the stairs . 
Raffles never dreamt of driving all the way back but I was hoping now to find him waiting up above . 
He had said an hour . 
I had remembered it suddenly . 
And now the hour was more than up . 
I can give you no conception of the night that I spent . 
Then I would listen at the door . 
You're late , I thundered as the first excuse for my excitement . 
Beg your pardon , said he , indignantly , but I'm half an hour before my usual time . 
earned me not only forgiveness but that obliging sympathy which is a branch of the business of the man at the door . 
Theobald on our mat in a yellow Jaeger suit , with a chin as yellow jutting over the flaps that he had turned up to hide his pyjamas . 
What's this about a bad night ? said he . 
He couldn't sleep , and he wouldn't let me , I whispered , never loosening my grasp of the door , and standing tight against the other wall . 
But he's sleeping like a baby now . 
He gave strict orders that you should not . 
I'm his medical man , and I You know what he is , I said , shrugging the least thing wakes him , and you will if you insist on seeing him now . 
It will be the last time , I warn you ! I know what he said , and you don't . 
The doctor cursed me under his fiery moustache . 
I shall come up during the course of the morning , he snarled . 
And with that I shut it in his face . 
I was improving , as Raffles had said but what would it profit me if some evil had befallen him ? And now I was prepared for the worst . 
If the worst had happened to Raffles , I felt that I would either never drink again , or else seldom do anything else . 
How long would it go on ? I wondered for a time . 
Yet it cannot have been much after eleven when the ring came at the bell , which I had forgotten to tie up after all . 
But this was not the doctor neither , too well I knew , was it the wanderer returned . 
Our bell was the pneumatic one that tells you if the touch be light or heavy the hand upon it now was tentative and shy . 
The owner of the hand I had never seen before . 
He was young and ragged , with one eye blank , but the other ablaze with some fell excitement . 
Non capite ? he cried when I had him inside and had withstood the torrent . 
No , I'm bothered if I do ! I answered , guessing his question from his tone . 
My pal , my pal , and no time to be lost ! I translated freely , and flew for my hat . 
Ecco , signore ! cried the fellow , snatching the watch from my waistcoat pocket , and putting one black thumb nail on the long hand , the other on he numeral twelve . 
Mezzogiorno poco tempo poco tempo ! And again I seized his meaning , that it was twenty past eleven , and we must be there by twelve . 
But where , but where ? It was maddening to be summoned like this , and not to know what had happened , nor to have any means of finding out . 
But my presence of mind stood by me still , I was improving by seven league strides , and I crammed my handkerchief between the drum and hammer of the bell before leaving . 
The doctor could ring now till he was black in the face , but I was not coming , and he need not think it . 
Opposite is the church with the clock upon it , as everybody knows , and at sight of the dial my companion had wrung his hands it was close upon the half hour . 
Poco tempo pochissimo ! he wailed . 
The small glass told me that my own face was pretty red . 
A nice show ! I cried and not a word can you tell me . 
Didn't you bring me a note ? I might have known by this time that he had not , still I went through the pantomime of writing with my finger on my cuff . 
But he shrugged and shook his head . 
Una quistione di vita , di vita ! What's that ? I snapped , my early training come in again . 
Say it slowly andante rallentando . 
Thank Italy for the stage instructions in the songs one used to murder ! The fellow actually understood . 
Or mors , eh ? I shouted , and up went the trap door over our heads . 
Avanti , avanti , avanti ! cried the Italian , turning up his one eyed face . 
Hell to leather , I translated , and double fare if you do it by twelve o'clock . 
A long half mile a minute , that was going like the wind , and indeed we had done much of it at a gallop . 
, which made it eighteen minutes to the hour as we swung across the Serpentine bridge , and by the quarter we were in the Bayswater Road not up for once . 
Presto , presto , my pale guide murmured . 
Affretatevi avanti ! Ten bob if you do it , I cried through the trap , without the slightest notion of what we were to do . 
But it was una quistione di vita , and vostro amico must and could only be my miserable Raffles . 
What number ? cried the good fellow over head . 
Trentotto , trentotto , said my guide , but he was looking to the right , and I bundled him out to show the house on foot . 
I had not half a sovereign after all , but I flung our dear driver a whole one instead , and only wish that it had been a hundred . 
However , up we went pell mell , to the right about on the half landing , and so like a whirlwind into the drawing room a few steps higher . 
A black ruler gagged him , the ends lashed behind his neck , the blood upon it caked to bronze in the gaslight . 
He was not tall enough , I seized him and lifted him up , then fell to work with my own knife upon the straps . 
And Raffles smiled faintly upon us through his blood stains . 
I want you to tumble to it , he whispered the neatest thing in revenge I ever knew , and another minute would have fixed it . 
I've been waiting for it twelve hours , watching the clock round , death at the end of the lap ! Electric connection . 
Hour hand only O Lord ! We had cut the last strap . 
He wants to get me a drink , but that can wait , said he , in firmer voice I shall enjoy it the more when I've told you what happened . 
Don't let him go , Bunny put your back against the door . 
He's a decent soul , and it's lucky for me I got a word with him before they trussed me up . 
I've promised to set him up in life , and I will , but I don't want him out of my sight for the moment . 
But all's well that ends well , and I declare I don't feel so much the worse . 
I do want to get it off my chest , Bunny , old Raffles admitted , and yet I hardly can tell you after all . 
I followed your friend with the velvet eyes . 
I followed him all the way here . 
I can tell you that , said I , and told how I had seen the Count for myself on the pavement underneath our windows . 
Moreover , I continued , I saw him spot you , and five minutes after in Earl's Court Road I was told he'd driven off in a cab . 
He would see you following his man , drive home ahead , and catch you by having the door left open in the way you describe . 
He told me so himself , sitting where I am sitting now , at three o'clock this morning , and smoking a most abominable cigar that I've smelt ever since . 
But I wouldn't have trusted him if he could have got the clock to go twice round without firing off the pistol . 
How could it interest me then ? But interested I was in Raffles , never more so in my life . 
I had imagined that I knew my Raffles at last . 
I was not likely so to flatter myself again . 
It was difficult to believe that this was Raffles . 
Oh , said he , they were to go off to Italy INSTANTER they should be crossing now . 
But do listen to what I am telling you it's interesting , my dear man . 
This old sinner Corbucci turns out to have been no end of a boss in the Camorra says so himself . 
One of the capi paranze , my boy , no less and the velvety Johnny a giovano onorato , Anglice , fresher . 
This excellent youth manufactures iced poison on Saffron Hill when he's at home . 
They were going by the eleven o'clock from Victoria , and that didn't leave much chance , but he certainly oughtn't to have run it as fine as he did . 
The ragamuffin in question was watching us with all his solitary eye , as though he knew that we were discussing him . 
Suddenly he broke out in agonized accents , his hands clasped , and a face so full of fear that every moment I expected to see him on his knees . 
But Raffles answered kindly , reassuringly , I could tell from his tone , and then turned to me with a compassionate shrug . 
He says he couldn't find the mansions , Bunny , and really it's not to be wondered at . 
I had only time to tell him to hunt you up and bring you here by hook or crook before twelve to day , and after all he has done that . 
But now the poor devil thinks you're riled with him , and that we'll give him away to the Camorra . 
I fancied he did not like my last expression but one . 
After all , it was no laughing matter to him . 
But are they ? said he . 
You said they were ! I said they should be . 
Didn't you hear them go ? I heard nothing but the clock all night . 
It was like Big Ben striking at the last striking nine to the fellow on the drop . 
And in that open eye I saw at last a deep glimmer of the ordeal through which he had passed . 
But , my dear old Raffles , if they're still on the premises The thought was too thrilling for a finished sentence . 
I hope they are , he said grimly , going to the door . 
There's a gas on ! Was that burning when you came in ? Now that I thought of it , yes , it had been . 
And there's a frightfully foul smell , I added , as I followed Raffles down the stairs . 
He turned to me gravely with his hand upon the front room door , and at the same moment I saw a coat with an astrakhan collar hanging on the pegs . 
They are in here , Bunny , he said , and turned the handle . 
The door would only open a few inches . 
But a detestable odor came out , with a broad bar of yellow gaslight . 
Raffles put his handkerchief to his nose . 
I followed his example , signing to our ally to do the same , and in another minute we had all three squeezed into the room . 
His face was on the table , the huge moustache projecting from under either leaden cheek , yet looking itself strangely alive . 
Come out of this poisonous air , he said sternly , and I will tell you how it has happened . 
So we all three gathered together in the hall . 
But it was Raffles who stood nearest the street door , his back to it , his eyes upon us two . 
You probably don't even know the name , Bunny , he began , of the deadliest poison yet known to science . 
It is cyanide of cacodyl , and I have carried that small flask of it about with me for months . 
Where I got it matters nothing the whole point is that a mere sniff reduces flesh to clay . 
I have never had any opinion of suicide , as you know , but I always felt it worth while to be forearmed against the very worst . 
I asked them to take it out of my pocket . 
I begged them to give me a drink before they left me . 
And what do you suppose they did ? I thought of many things but suggested none , while Raffles turned this much of his statement into sufficiently fluent Italian . 
But when he faced me again his face was still flaming . 
That beast Corbucci ! said he how can I pity him ? He took the flask he would give me none he flicked me in the face instead . 
My idea was that he , at least , should go with me to sell my life as dearly as that and a sniff would have settled us both . 
To be sure , they had not behaved like murderers , whereas the evidence at the inquest all went to show that the defunct Corbucci was little better . 
His reputation , which transpired with his identity , was that of a libertine and a renegade , while the infernal apparatus upstairs revealed the fiendish arts of the anarchist to boot . 
The inquiry resulted eventually in an open verdict , and was chiefly instrumental in killing such compassion as is usually felt for the dead who die in their sins . 
But Raffles would not have passed this title for this tale . 
Raid after raid was made upon the smartest houses in town , and within a few weeks more than one exalted head had been shorn of its priceless tiara . 
The Duke and Duchess of Dorchester lost half the portable pieces of their historic plate on the very night of their Graces' almost equally historic costume ball . 
I should mind less , said Raffles , if the fellow were really playing my game . 
But abuse of hospitality was never one of my strokes , and it seems to me the only shot he's got . 
When we took old Lady Melrose's necklace , Bunny , we were not staying with the Melroses , if you recollect . 
We were discussing the robberies for the hundredth time , but for once under conditions more favorable to animated conversation than our unique circumstances permitted in the flat . 
We did not often dine out . 
Theobald was one impediment , the risk of recognition was another . 
Our bottle of champagne was empty to the label when the subject arose , to be touched by Raffles in the reminiscent manner indicated above . 
I can see his clear eye upon me now , reading me , weighing me . 
But I was not so sensitive to his scrutiny at the time . 
Excellent fillet ! said I , grossly . 
So you think this chap is as much in society as we were , do you ? I preferred not to think so myself . 
We had cause enough for jealousy without that . 
But Raffles raised his eyebrows an eloquent half inch . 
As much , my dear Bunny ? He is not only in it , but of it there's no comparison between us there . 
Society is in rings like a target , and we never were in the bull's eye , however thick you may lay on the ink ! I was asked for my cricket . 
I haven't forgotten it yet . 
But this fellow's one of themselves , with the right of entre into the houses which we could only 'enter' in a professional sense . 
That's obvious unless all these little exploits are the work of different hands , which they as obviously are not . 
And it's why I'd give five hundred pounds to put salt on him to night ! Not you , said I , as I drained my glass in festive incredulity . 
But I would , my dear Bunny . 
Waiter ! another half bottle of this , and Raffles leant across the table as the empty one was taken away . 
I never was more serious in my life , he continued below his breath . 
Whatever else our successor may be , he's not a dead man like me , or a marked man like you . 
They were , however , quite strong in themselves . 
The gist of them was that thus far we had remarkably little to show for what Raffles would call our second innings . 
This even I could not deny . 
We had scored a few long singles , but our best shots had gone straight to hand , and we were playing a deuced slow game . 
Therefore we needed a new partner and the metaphor failed Raffles . 
It had served its turn . 
I already agreed with him . 
In truth I was tired of my false position as hireling attendant , and had long fancied myself an object of suspicion to that other impostor the doctor . 
A fresh , untrammelled start was a fascinating idea to me , though two was company , and three in our case might be worse than none . 
But I did not see how we could hope , with our respective handicaps , to solve a problem which was already the despair of Scotland Yard . 
Suppose I have solved it , observed Raffles , cracking a walnut in his palm . 
How could you ? I asked , without believing for an instant that he had . 
I have been taking the Morning Post for some time now . 
Well ? You have got me a good many odd numbers of the less base society papers . 
I can't for the life of me see what you're driving at . 
Raffles smiled indulgently as he cracked another nut . 
I said very stolidly that I did not see how that could help him . 
It was the only answer to his good humored but self satisfied contempt it happened also to be true . 
Think , said Raffles , in a patient voice . 
When thieves break in and steal , said I , upstairs , I don't see much point in discovering who was downstairs at the time . 
Quite , said Raffles when they do break in . 
But that's what they have done in all these cases . 
An upstairs door found screwed up , when things were at their height below thief gone and jewels with him before alarm could be raised . 
Why , the trick's so old that I never knew you condescend to play it . 
Not so old as it looks , said Raffles , choosing the cigars and handing me mine . 
Cognac or Benedictine , Bunny ? Brandy , I said , coarsely . 
But that was where he left his rope ladder behind him ! I exclaimed in triumph but Raffles only shook his head . 
I don't believe in that rope ladder , Bunny , except as a blind . 
I began to believe that he really had , there was such a wicked gravity in the eyes that twinkled faintly into mine . 
I raised my glass in convivial congratulation , and still remember the somewhat anxious eye with which Raffles saw it emptied . 
I can only find one likely name , he continued , that figures in all these lists , and it is anything but a likely one at first sight . 
Lord Ernest Belville was at all those functions . 
Know anything about him , Bunny ? Not the Rational Drink fanatic ? Yes . 
That's all I want to know . 
, does not bore the world with them without ulterior motives . 
What are this chap's motives ? Does he want to advertise himself ? No , he's somebody already . 
Then suddenly one gets one's own old idea the alternative profession ! My cricket his Rational Drink ! But it is no use jumping to conclusions . 
I must know more than the newspapers can tell me . 
Our aristocratic friend is forty , and unmarried . 
Interviewed him ! said Raffles , smiling slowly on my amazement . 
You interviewed him ? I echoed . 
When and where ? Last Thursday night , when , if you remember , we kept early hours , because I felt done . 
What was the use of telling you what I had up my sleeve , Bunny ? It might have ended in fizzle , as it still may . 
My journalistic jealousy was piqued to the quick . 
, I inquired dryly which journal Raffles had pretended to represent . 
It is unnecessary to report his answer . 
I could not believe him without further explanation . 
I should have thought , he said , that even you would have spotted a practice I never omit upon certain occasions . 
I always pay a visit to the drawing room , and fill my waistcoat pocket from the card tray . 
It is an immense help in any little temporary impersonation . 
What could be better for the alternative profession ? I inquired what the interview had brought forth . 
Lord Ernest has been a wanderer these twenty years . 
Texas , Fiji , Australia . 
I suspect him of wives and families in all three . 
But his manners are a liberal education . 
He gave me some beautiful whiskey , and forgot all about his fad . 
He is strong and subtle , but I talked him off his guard . 
He is going to the Kirkleathams' to night I saw the card stuck up . 
I stuck some wax into his keyhole as he was switching off the lights . 
I looked from the key to Raffles with puckered forehead for I happened to catch sight of it in the mirror behind him . 
The villain means to get them from her ! And I mean to get them from the villain , said Raffles or , rather , your share and mine . 
Will he consent to a partnership ? We shall have him at our mercy . 
It was a part that I had played before , not always with a good grace , though there had never been any question about the share . 
But to night I was nothing loath . 
I had had just champagne enough how Raffles knew my measure ! and I was ready and eager for anything . 
Indeed , I did not wish to wait for the coffee , which was to be especially strong by order of Raffles . 
But on that he insisted , and it was between ten and eleven when at last we were in our cab . 
It would be fatal to be too early , he said as we drove on the other hand , it would be dangerous to leave it too late . 
How I should love to drive down Piccadilly and see the lights ! But unnecessary risks are another story . 
II King John's Mansions , as everybody knows , are the oldest , the ugliest , and the tallest block of flats in all London . 
But they are built upon a more generous scale than has since become the rule , and with a less studious regard for the economy of space . 
We were about to drive into the spacious courtyard when the gate keeper checked us in order to let another hansom drive out . 
It contained a middle aged man of the military type , like ourselves in evening dress . 
In an instant he was out upon the curb , paying the cabby , and in another he was leading me across the street , away from the mansions . 
Where on earth are you going ? I naturally exclaimed . 
Into the park , said he . 
His voice told me more than his words . 
Was that him in the hansom ? It was . 
Well , then , the coast's clear , said I , comfortably . 
I was for turning back then and there , but Raffles forced me on with a hand that hardened on my arm . 
It was a nearer thing than I care about , said he . 
This seat will do no , the next one's further from a lamp post . 
We will give him a good half hour , and I don't want to talk . 
We had been seated some minutes when Big Ben sent a languid chime over our heads to the stars . 
It was half past ten , and a sultry night . 
Eleven had struck before Raffles awoke from his sullen reverie , and recalled me from mine with a slap on the back . 
In a couple of minutes we were in the lighted vestibule at the inner end of the courtyard of King John's Mansions . 
Just left Lord Ernest at Lady Kirkleatham's , said Raffles . 
Gave me his key and asked us to wait for him in his rooms . 
Will you send us up in the lift ? In a small way , I never knew old Raffles do anything better . 
There was not an instant's demur . 
Lord Ernest Belville's rooms were at the top of the building , but we were in them as quickly as lift could carry and page boy conduct us . 
And there was no need for the skeleton key after all the boy opened the outer door with one of his own , and switched on the lights before leaving us . 
Now that's interesting , said Raffles , as soon as we were alone they can come in and clean when he is out . 
Yet the way people pose on the subject ! If a thing's handsome and useful , and good cabinet making , it's good enough for me . 
Hadn't we better explore the whole place ? I suggested nervously . 
He had not even bolted the outer door . 
Nor would he when I called his attention to the omission . 
If Lord Ernest finds his rooms locked up he'll raise Cain , said Raffles we must let him come in and lock up for himself before we corner him . 
But he won't come yet if he did it might be awkward , for they'd tell him down below what I told them . 
A new staff comes on at midnight . 
I discovered that the other night . 
Unless my suspicions are unfounded , I mean . 
Isn't it about time to test them ? My good Bunny , what do you suppose I've been doing all this while ? He keeps nothing in here . 
Chimney's no use in a place like this where they keep them swept for you . 
Yes , I'm quite ready to try his bedroom . 
There was but a bathroom besides no kitchen , no servant's room neither are necessary in King John's Mansions . 
But the bathroom blazed void in the electric light . 
I found Raffles hanging out of the starry square which was the bedroom window , for the room was still in darkness . 
I felt for the switch at the door . 
Put it out again ! said Raffles fiercely . 
He rose from the sill , drew blind and curtains carefully , then switched on the light himself . 
It fell upon a face creased more in pity than in anger , and Raffles only shook his head as I hung mine . 
But you may bet your bottom dollar that if there's any boodle in the flat it's in this room . 
Yet the room was very lightly furnished and nothing was locked . 
We looked everywhere , but we looked in vain . 
The wardrobe was filled with hanging coats and trousers in a press , the drawers with the softest silk and finest linen . 
It was a camp bedstead that would not have unsettled an anchorite there was no place for treasure there . 
I looked up the chimney , but Raffles told me not to be a fool , and asked if I ever listened to what he said . 
There was no question about his temper now . 
I never knew him in a worse . 
Then he has got it in the bank , he growled . 
I'll swear I'm not mistaken in my man ! I had the tact not to differ with him there . 
But I could not help suggesting that now was our time to remedy any mistake we might have made . 
We were on the right side of midnight still . 
Then we stultify ourselves downstairs , said Raffles . 
No , I'll be shot if I do ! He may come in with the Kirkleatham diamonds ! You do what you like , Bunny , but I don't budge . 
I certainly shan't leave you , I retorted , to be knocked into the middle of next week by a better man than yourself . 
I had borrowed his own tone , and he did not like it . 
I thought for a moment that Raffles was going to strike me for the first and last time in his life . 
He could if he liked . 
I was ready to send him to the devil . 
And suddenly as I watched him his face changed , softened , lit up , and he swung the clubs gently down upon the bed . 
I saw what he suspected now , and caught the contagion of his suppressed excitement . 
But Raffles had taken out the portable tool box that he called a knife , and always carried , and as he opened the gimlet he handed me the club he held . 
Instinctively I tucked the small end under my arm , and presented the other to Raffles . 
Hold him tight , he whispered , smiling . 
He's not only a better man than I thought him , Bunny he's hit upon a better dodge than ever I did , of its kind . 
Only I should have weighted them evenly to a hair . 
He had screwed the gimlet into the circular butt , close to the edge , and now we were wrenching in opposite directions . 
For a moment or more nothing happened . 
Then all at once something gave , and Raffles swore an oath as soft as any prayer . 
And when we did open them but let Raffles speak . 
He had deputed me to screw in the ends of the clubs , and to replace the latter in the fender where we had found them . 
When I had done the counterpane was glittering with diamonds where it was not shimmering with pearls . 
It was stupid to keep these old gold spoons , valuable as they are they made the difference in the weight . 
Here we have probably the Kenworthy diamonds . 
I don't know the history of these pearls . 
This looks like one family of rings left on the basin stand , perhaps alas , poor lady ! And that's the lot . 
Our eyes met across the bed . 
What's it all worth ? I asked , hoarsely . 
But more than all we ever took in all our lives . 
More than all My tongue swelled with the thought . 
But it'll take some turning into cash , old chap ! And must it be a partnership ? I asked , finding a lugubrious voice at length . 
Partnership be damned ! cried Raffles , heartily . 
Let's get out quicker than we came in . 
We pocketed the things between us , cotton wool and all , not because we wanted the latter , but to remove all immediate traces of our really meritorious deed . 
The sinner won't dare to say a word when he does find out , remarked Raffles of Lord Ernest but that's no reason why he should find out before he must . 
Everything's straight in here , I think no , better leave the window open as it was , and the blind up . 
Now out with the light . 
One peep at the other room . 
That's all right , too . 
Out with the passage light , Bunny , while I open His words died away in a whisper . 
A key was fumbling at the lock outside . 
The next five were horrible minutes . 
Never before or since did I experience such a thirst as assailed me at that moment , nor do I believe that many tropical explorers have known its equal . 
But I had Raffles with me , and his hand was as steady and as cool as the hand of a trained nurse . 
That I know because he turned up the collar of my overcoat for me , for some reason , and buttoned it at the throat . 
I afterwards found that he had done the same to his own , but I did not hear him doing it . 
Yet I had then no conception of the game that Raffles was deciding to play , and that I was to play with him in another minute . 
It cannot have been longer before Lord Ernest came into his bedroom . 
Lord Ernest Belville crouched in its glare with one Indian club held by the end , like a footman with a stolen bottle . 
A good looking , well built , iron gray , iron jawed man but a fool and a weakling at that moment , if he had never been either before . 
Lord Ernest Belville , said Raffles , it's no use . 
This is a loaded revolver , and if you force me I shall use it on you as I would on any other desperate criminal . 
I am here to arrest you for a series of robberies at the Duke of Dorchester's , Sir John Kenworthy's , and other noblemen's and gentlemen's houses during the present season . 
You'd better drop what you've got in your hand . 
Lord Ernest lifted the club an inch or two , and with it his eyebrows and after it his stalwart frame as the club crashed back into the fender . 
And as he stood at his full height , a courteous but ironic smile under the cropped moustache , he looked what he was , criminal or not . 
Scotland Yard ? said he . 
That's our affair , my lord . 
I didn't think they'd got it in them , said Lord Ernest . 
No , I didn't think any of you fellows had got all that in you . 
Come into the other room , and I'll show you something else . 
Oh , keep me covered by all means . 
The Kirkleatham diamonds , said he . 
Better add 'em to the bag . 
What I looked God knows , but I did my best to glower and show my teeth at his side . 
I had thrown myself into the game , and it was obviously a winning one . 
Wouldn't take a share , I suppose ? Lord Ernest said casually . 
Raffles did not condescend to reply . 
I rolled back my lips like a bull pup . 
Then a drink , at least ! My mouth watered , but Raffles shook his head impatiently . 
We must be going , my lord , and you will have to come with us . 
I wondered what in the world we should do with him when we had got him . 
But I shall be back in a minute , and you must be ready in five . 
Here , inspector , you'd better keep this while I am gone . 
And I was left alone with that dangerous criminal ! Raffles nipped my arm as he handed me the revolver , but I got small comfort out of that . 
'Sea green Incorruptible ? inquired Lord Ernest as we stood face to face . 
You don't corrupt me , I replied through naked teeth . 
Then come into my room . 
Think you can hit me if I misbehave ? I put the bed between us without a second's delay . 
, his right hand closed over the barrel with which I covered him . 
I will if you force me , I hissed . 
You'd better not , he repeated , smiling and now I saw that if I did I should only shoot into the bed or my own legs . 
His hand was on the top of mine , bending it down , and the revolver with it . 
Help ! I called feebly . 
Help , forsooth ! I begin to believe YOU ARE from the Yard , he said and his upper cut came with the Yard . 
It caught me under the chin . 
It lifted me off my legs . 
I have a dim recollection of the crash that I made in falling . 
III Raffles was standing over me when I recovered consciousness . 
I lay stretched upon the bed across which that blackguard Belville had struck his knavish blow . 
The suit case was on the floor , but its dastardly owner had disappeared . 
Is he gone ? was my first faint question . 
Thank God you're not , anyway ! replied Raffles , with what struck me then as mere flippancy . 
I managed to raise myself upon one elbow . 
I meant Lord Ernest Belville , said I , with dignity . 
Are you quite sure that he's cleared out ? Raffles waved a hand towards the window , which stood wide open to the summer stars . 
Of course , said he , and by the route I intended him to take he's gone by the iron ladder , as I hoped he would . 
Are you sure he is ? I questioned , as I found a rather shaky pair of legs . 
Of course ! cried Raffles again , in the tone to make one blush for the least misgiving on the point . 
Then the sooner we clear out the better , said I , but I looked askance at the open window , for my head was spinning still . 
When you feel up to it , returned Raffles , we shall STROLL out , and I shall do myself the honor of ringing for the lift . 
The force of habit is too strong in you , Bunny . 
I shall shut the window and leave everything exactly as we found it . 
It was long since I had known him so pleased with himself , and only too long since he had had such reason . 
I'm only sorry you let him knock you out . 
I was waiting outside the door all the time , and it made me sick to hear it . 
What a brute I've been , Bunny ! he whispered then , but you take half the swag , old boy , and right well you've earned it . 
So we climbed the many stairs with cat like stealth , and like cats crept out upon the grimy leads . 
The flat will be like an oven , I grumbled , at the head of our own staircase . 
Then we won't go down , said Raffles , promptly we'll slack it up here for a bit instead . 
No , Bunny , you stay where you are ! I'll fetch you a drink and a deck chair , and you shan't come down till you feel more fit . 
And I let him have his way , I will not say as usual , for I had even less than my normal power of resistance that night . 
That villainous upper cut ! My head still sang and throbbed , as I seated myself on one of the aforesaid parapets , and buried it in my hot hands . 
Nor was the night one to dispel a headache there was distinct thunder in the air . 
You have been quick , said I , simply . 
It was Lord Ernest Belville his close cropped , iron gray moustache gleamed through the darkness , drawn up over his set teeth . 
In his hand glittered a pair of handcuffs , and before I knew it one had snapped its jaws about my right wrist . 
Now come this way , said Lord Ernest , showing me a revolver also , and wait for your friend . 
It no longer felt warm to my touch , but icy as the blood in all my veins . 
Not that I paused to think how the thing had happened my one concern was for what was to happen next . 
Where are you , old chap ? he cried , softly , himself blinded by the light he carried and he advanced a couple of steps towards Belville . 
This isn't you , is it ? And Raffles stopped , his candle held on high , a folding chair under the other arm . 
Why didn't you shoot ? he asked insolently as he rose . 
Frightened of the noise ? I should be , too , with an old pattern machine like that . 
I am glad you don't dispute the last word , he continued after a slight pause . 
There is no keener honor than that which subsists , or ought to subsist , among thieves and I need hardly say that I soon spotted you as one of the fraternity . 
Nor must you put all the blame upon your friend it was not he , but you , who made so sure that I had got out by the window . 
You see , I was in my bathroom all the time with the door open . 
The bathroom , eh ? Raffles echoed with professional interest . 
And you followed us on foot across the park ? Of course . 
And then in a cab ? And afterwards on foot once more . 
The simplest skeleton would let you in down below . 
I saw the lower half of Lord Ernest's face grinning in the light of the candle set between them on the ground . 
You follow every move , said he there can be no doubt you are one of the fraternity and I shouldn't wonder if we had formed our style upon the same model . 
Ever know A. J. Raffles ? The abrupt question took my breath away but Raffles himself did not lose an instant over his answer . 
That accounts for you , then , laughed Lord Ernest , as it does for me , though I never had the honor of the master's acquaintance . 
Nor is it for me to say which is the worthier disciple . 
You have the bulge at present , admitted Raffles but you have still to lay hands upon your , or our , ill gotten goods . 
Family considerations alone should rule that risk out of your game . 
Now , an hour or two ago , when the exact opposite The remainder of Raffles's speech was drowned from my ears by the belated crash of thunder which the lightning had foretold . 
You offered us a share , he was saying unless you mean to murder us both in cold blood , it will be worth your while to repeat that offer . 
We should be dangerous enemies you had far better make the best of us as friends . 
Lead the way down to your flat , said Lord Ernest , with a flourish of his service revolver , and perhaps we may talk about it . 
It is for me to make the terms , I imagine , and in the first place I am not going to get wet to the skin up here . 
The rain was beginning in great drops , even as he spoke , and by a second flash of lightning I saw Raffles pointing to me . 
But what about my friend ? said he . 
And then came the second peal . 
He has not recovered from the blow you struck him in your own rooms . 
I am not such a fool as to blame you for that , but you are a worse sportsman than I take you for if you think of leaving him where he is . 
The rain had already extinguished the candle . 
I heard an oath from Belville , a laugh from Raffles , and for a second that was all . 
And then ! This time they came together , and not till my dying hour shall I forget the sight that the lightning lit and the thunder applauded . 
Raffles was on one of the parapets of the gulf that my foot bridge spanned , and in the sudden illumination he stepped across it as one might across a garden path . 
Raffles was laughing in my ear he had the iron railing fast it was between us , but his foothold was as secure as mine . 
Lord Ernest Belville , on the contrary , was the fifth of a second late for the light , and half a foot short in his spring . 
I am not sure that I could hit upon the perfect simile it is more than enough for me that I can hear it still . 
It was all his own fault , Bunny . 
Poor devil ! May he and all of us be forgiven but pull yourself together for your own sake . 
Well , you can't fall stay where you are a minute . 
I remember the uproar of the elements while Raffles was gone no other sound mingled with it not the opening of a single window , not the uplifting of a single voice . 
Then came Raffles with soap and water , and the gyve was wheedled from one wrist , as you withdraw a ring for which the finger has grown too large . 
Of the rest , I only remember shivering till morning in a pitch dark flat , whose invalid occupier was for once the nurse , and I his patient . 
And that is the true ending of the episode in which we two set ourselves to catch one of our own kidney , albeit in another place I have shirked the whole truth . 
The truth , however , has after all a merit of its own , and the great kinsfolk of poor Lord Ernest have but little to lose by its divulgence . 
It would seem that they knew more of the real character of the apostle of Rational Drink than was known at Exeter Hall . 
The tragedy was indeed hushed up , as tragedies only are when they occur in such circles . 
It is not a fashionable square , but there are few with a finer garden , while the studios on the south side lend distinction of another sort . 
The houses , however , are small and dingy , and about the last to attract the expert practitioner in search of a crib . 
Heaven knows it was with no such thought I trailed Raffles thither , one unlucky evening at the latter end of that same season , when Dr . 
Theobald had at last insisted upon the bath chair which I had foreseen in the beginning . 
Trees whispered in the green garden aforesaid , and the cool , smooth lawns looked so inviting that I wondered whether some philanthropic resident could not be induced to lend us the key . 
But Raffles would not listen to the suggestion , when I stopped to make it , and what was worse , I found him looking wistfully at the little houses instead . 
I daresay you're right , sighed Raffles . 
Rings and watches , I suppose , but it would be hard luck to take them from people who live in houses like these . 
I don't know , though . 
Here's one with an extra story . 
Stop , Bunny if you don't stop I'll hold on to the railings ! This is a good house look at the knocker and the electric bell . 
They've had that put in . 
There's some money here , my rabbit ! I dare bet there's a silver table in the drawing room and the windows are wide open . 
It was like a lantern picture thrown upon a screen . 
There were only the pair of them , but the table was brilliant with silver and gay with flowers , and the maid waited with the indefinable air of a good servant . 
It certainly seemed a good house . 
She's going to let down the blind ! whispered Raffles , in high excitement . 
No , confound them , they've told her not to . 
Mark down her necklace , Bunny , and invoice his stud . 
What a brute he looks ! But I like the table , and that's her show . 
She has the taste but he must have money . 
See the festive picture over the sideboard ? Looks to me like a Jacques Saillard . 
But that silver table would be good enough for me . 
Get on , said I. You're in a bath chair . 
But the whole square's at dinner ! We should have the ball at our feet . 
You must be mad , said I , and got back to my handles with the word , but when I tugged the chair ran light . 
Mad I had called him , and mad I could declare him upon oath if necessary . 
It was not as though the thing had happened far from home . 
They could learn all about us at the nearest mansions . 
I referred them to Dr . 
Theobald this was a Mr. Maturin , one of his patients , and I was his keeper , and he had never given me the slip before . 
I heard myself making these explanations on the doorstep , and pointing to the deserted bath chair as the proof , while the pretty parlor maid ran for the police . 
It would be a more serious matter for me than for my charge . 
I should lose my place . 
No , he had never done such a thing before , and I would answer for it that he never should again . 
I saw myself conducting Raffles back to his chair , with a firm hand and a stern tongue . 
I heard him thanking me in whispers on the way home . 
My whole position had altered in the few seconds that it took me to follow this illuminating train of ideas it was now so strong that I could watch Raffles without much anxiety . 
And he was worth watching . 
But he had not to ring at all and suddenly I saw his foot in the letter box , his left hand on the lintel overhead . 
I looked down and took breath . 
The maid was removing the crumbs in the lighted room , and the square was empty as before . 
What a blessing it was the end of the season ! Many of the houses remained in darkness . 
I looked up again , and Raffles was drawing his left leg over the balcony railing . 
In another moment he had disappeared through one of the French windows which opened upon the balcony , and in yet another he had switched on the electric light within . 
This was bad enough , for now I , at least , could see everything he did but the crowning folly was still to come . 
It would be difficult , but burglaries are not usually committed from a bath chair , and for the rest I put my faith in Dr . 
Meanwhile Raffles had at least withdrawn from the balcony , and now I could only see his head as he peered into a cabinet at the other side of the room . 
It was like the opera of Aida , in which two scenes are enacted simultaneously , one in the dungeon below , the other in the temple above . 
In the same fashion my attention now became divided between the picture of Raffles moving stealthily about the upper room , and that of the husband and wife at table underneath . 
And all at once , as the man replenished his glass with a shrug of the shoulders , the woman pushed back her chair and sailed to the door . 
Raffles was standing before the fireplace upstairs . 
He had taken one of the framed photographs from the chimney piece , and was scanning it at suicidal length through the eye holes in the hideous mask which he still wore . 
He would need it after all . 
The lady had left the room below , opening and shutting the door for herself the man was filling his glass once more . 
was marching sedately down our side of the square . 
There was nothing for it but to turn a melancholy eye upon the bath chair , and to ask the constable the time . 
I was evidently to be kept there all night , I remarked , and only realized with the words that they disposed of my other explanations before they were uttered . 
It was a horrible moment for such a discovery . 
And never shall I forget the subsequent tableaux in the lighted room behind the low balcony and the French windows . 
Raffles stood confronted by a dark and handsome woman whose profile , as I saw it first in the electric light , is cut like a cameo in my memory . 
He had not to do so long . 
The woman scorned him , and he stood unmoved , a framed photograph still in his hand . 
So far no word had passed between the pair . 
But at this point Raffles said something , I could not hear what , but at the sound of his voice the woman wheeled . 
And Raffles was looking humbly in her face , the crape mask snatched from his own . 
Arthur ! she cried and that might have been heard in the middle of the square garden . 
Then they stood gazing at each other , neither unmoved any more , and while they stood the street door opened and banged . 
It was her husband leaving the house , a fine figure of a man , but a dissipated face , and a step even now distinguished by the extreme caution which precedes unsteadiness . 
His wife came to the balcony , then looked back into the room , and yet again along the road , and this time I saw her face . 
It was the face of one glancing indeed from Hyperion to a satyr . 
And then I saw the rings flash , as her hand fell gently upon Raffles's arm . 
They disappeared from that window . 
Their heads showed for an instant in the next . 
Then they dipped out of sight , and an inner ceiling flashed out under a new light they had gone into the back drawing room , beyond my ken . 
The maid came up with coffee , her mistress hastily met her at the door , and once more disappeared . 
The square was as quiet as ever . 
I remained some minutes where I was . 
Now and then I thought I heard their voices in the back drawing room . 
My state of mind may be imagined by those readers who take an interest in my personal psychology . 
It does not amuse me to look back upon it . 
But at length I had the sense to put myself in Raffles's place . 
He had been recognized at last , he had come to life . 
Only one person knew as yet , but that person was a woman , and a woman who had once been fond of him , if the human face could speak . 
He would not tell her where he lived . 
I knew him too well for that . 
He would run for it when he could , and the bath chair and I must not be there to give him away . 
I dragged the infernal vehicle round the nearer corner . 
Then I waited there could be no harm in that and at last he came . 
Well done , Bunny well done ! I am on my way to Earl's Court , she's capable of following me , but she won't look for me in a bath chair . 
But she never gave us a glance , and we saw her turn safely in the right direction for Earl's Court , and the wrong one for our humble mansions . 
Raffles thanked his gods in a voice that trembled , and five minutes later we were in the flat . 
did he drain his glass at a draught . 
You didn't see the balcony scene ? he asked at length and they were his first words since the woman passed us on his track . 
Do you mean when she came in ? No , when I came down . 
I hope nobody else saw it , said Raffles devoutly . 
I don't say that Romeo and Juliet were brother and sister to us . 
But you might have said so , Bunny ! He was staring at the carpet with as wry a face as lover ever wore . 
An old flame ? said I , gently . 
A married woman , he groaned . 
But she always was one , Bunny , said he , ruefully . 
It makes all the difference in the world ! I saw the difference , but said I did not see how it could make any now . 
I quoted the bedside Theobald , but Raffles did not smile . 
His eyes had been downcast all this time , and now , when he raised them , I perceived that my comfort had been administered to deaf ears . 
Do you know who she is ? said he . 
Jacques Saillard , he said , as though now I must know . 
But the name left me cold and stolid . 
I had heard it , but that was all . 
It was lamentable ignorance , I am aware , but I had specialized in Letters at the expense of Art . 
You must know her pictures , said Raffles , patiently but I suppose you thought she was a man . 
They would appeal to you , Bunny that festive piece over the sideboard was her work . 
Sometimes they risk her at the Academy , sometimes they fight shy . 
She has one of those studios in the same square they used to live up near Lord's . 
My mind was busy brightening a dim memory of nymphs reflected in woody pools . 
Of course ! I exclaimed , and added something about a clever woman . 
Raffles rose at the phrase . 
A clever woman ! he echoed , scornfully if she were only that I should feel safe as houses . 
Clever women can't forget their cleverness , they carry it as badly as a boy does his wine , and are about as dangerous . 
I don't call Jacques Saillard clever outside her art , but neither do I call her a woman at all . 
I broke with her once , said Raffles , grimly , but I know her . 
If I had been asked to name the one person in London by whom I was keenest NOT to be bowled out , I should have named Jacques Saillard . 
It was a question of principle with him , and one that I like to remember . 
That's all right , said I , if you're not going to be given away yourself . 
That's just it , Bunny ! That's just The words were out of him , it was too late to recall them . 
I had hit the nail upon the head . 
So she threatened you , I said , did she ? I didn't say so , he replied , coldly . 
And she is mated with a clown ! I pursued . 
How she ever married him , he admitted , is a mystery to me . 
It always is , said I , the wise man for once , and rather enjoying the role . 
She'll be pestering you to run off with her , old chap , said I. Raffles was pacing the room . 
He stopped in his stride for half a second . 
So she had begun pestering him already ! It is wonderful how acute any fool can be in the affairs of his friend . 
But Raffles resumed his walk without a syllable , and I retreated to safer ground . 
So you sent her to Earl's Court , I mused aloud and at last he smiled . 
You'll be interested to hear , Bunny , said he , that I am now living in Seven Dials , and Bill Sikes couldn't hold a farthing dip to me . 
Bless you , she had my old police record at her fingers' ends , but it was fit to frame compared with the one I gave her . 
I had sunk as low as they dig . 
I divided my nights between the open parks and a thieves' kitchen in Seven Dials . 
If I was decently dressed it was because I had stolen the suit down the Thames Valley beat the night before last . 
I was on my way back when first that sleepy square , and then her open window , proved too much for me . 
You did lay it on , said I. It was necessary , and that had its effect . 
But at the last moment she said she didn't believe I was so black as I painted myself , and then there was the balcony scene you missed . 
I could not help telling him that he had got out of it better than he deserved for ever getting in . 
Next moment I regretted the remark . 
If I have got out of it , said Raffles , doubtfully . 
We are dreadfully near neighbors , and I can't move in a minute , with old Theobald taking a grave view of my case . 
I suppose I had better lie low , and thank the gods again for putting her off the scent for the time being . 
The doctor ? I queried , hope fighting with my horror . 
It was a single ring . 
The last post ? You know he knocks , and it's long past his time . 
The electric bell rang again , but now as though it never would stop . 
You go , Bunny , said Raffles , with decision . 
What am I to say ? If it's the lady let her in . 
It was the lady , still in her evening cloak , with her fine dark head half hidden by the hood , and an engaging contempt of appearances upon her angry face . 
I was only too glad to flatten myself against the wall , as the rustling fury strode past me into the lighted room with the open door . 
So this is your thieves' kitchen ! she cried , in high pitched scorn . 
I was on the threshold myself , and Raffles glanced towards me with raised eyebrows . 
I have certainly had better quarters in my day , said he , but you need not call them absurd names before my man . 
Then send your 'man' about his business , said Jacques Saillard , with an unpleasant stress upon the word indicated . 
It seemed , however , that she had proved it already by going first to the porter below stairs . 
Yet I do not think she cared one atom which story was the truth . 
These intrusions he had endured at first with an air of humorous resignation which imposed upon me less than he imagined . 
The woman meant well , he said , after all , and could be trusted to keep his secret loyally . 
Otherwise there would have been little point in hiding anything from the one person in possession of the cardinal secret of his identity . 
But Raffles thought it worth his while to hoodwink Jacques Saillard in the subsidiary matter of his health , in which Dr . 
So you're all right , Bunny , he had assured me she thinks you knew nothing the other night . 
I told you she wasn't a clever woman outside her work . 
His reply was an admission that one must be on the defensive with such a woman and in such a case . 
Theobald's explicit injunctions , and with my own honesty unquestioned . 
So for a day we had peace once more . 
Then came letters , then the doctor again and again , and finally my dismissal in the incredible words which have necessitated these explanations . 
Go where ? It's that ass Theobald , said Raffles . 
On my going altogether ? He nodded . 
And you mean to let him have his way ? I had no language for my mortification and disgust , though neither was as yet quite so great as my surprise . 
I had foreseen almost every conceivable consequence of the mad act which brought all this trouble to pass , but a voluntary division between Raffles and me had certainly never entered my calculations . 
Nor could I think that it had occurred to him before our egregious doctor's last visit , this very morning . 
I am obliged to give in to the fellow , said he . 
He's saving me from my friend , and I'm bound to humor him . 
But I can tell you that we've been arguing about you for the last half hour , Bunny . 
It was no use the idiot has had his knife in you from the first and he wouldn't see me through on any other conditions . 
So he is going to see you through , is he ? It tots up to that , said Raffles , looking at me rather hard . 
At all events he has come to my rescue for the time being , and it's for me to manage the rest . 
You don't know what it has been , Bunny , these last few weeks and gallantry forbids that I should tell you even now . 
As a matter of fact , I am ill and now what do you think ? I owe it to you to tell you , Bunny , though it goes against the grain . 
But for once he did look as though bed was the best place for him and I used the fact as an argument for my own retention in defiance of Dr . 
The town was full of typhoid , I said , and certainly that autumnal scourge was in the air . 
Now you're talking ! I cried , recovering my spirits . 
No , my dear rabbit , what you've got to do is to make a new burrow for us both . 
Try down the Thames , in some quiet nook that a literary man would naturally select . 
I've often thought that more use might be made of a boat , while the family are at dinner , than there ever has been yet . 
If Raffles is to come to life , old chap , he shall go a Raffling for all he's worth ! There's something to be done with a bicycle , too . 
Try Ham Common or Roehampton , or some such sleepy hollow a trifle off the line and say you're expecting your brother from the colonies . 
Moreover , I for one was only too glad to seek fresh fields and pastures new a phrase which I determined to interpret literally in my choice of fresh surroundings . 
I was tired of our submerged life in the poky little flat , especially now that we had money enough for better things . 
I myself of late had dark dealings with the receivers , with the result that poor Lord Ernest Belville's successes were now indeed ours . 
Subsequent complications had been the more galling on that account , while the wanton way in which they had been created was the most irritating reflection of all . 
But it had brought its own punishment upon Raffles , and I fancied the lesson would prove salutary when we again settled down . 
If ever we do , Bunny ! said he , as I took his hand and told him how I was already looking forward to the time . 
But of course we will ! I cried , concealing the resentment at leaving him which his tone and his appearance renewed in my breast . 
I'm not so sure of it , he said , gloomily . 
I'm in somebody's clutches , and I've got to get out of them first . 
I'll sit tight until you do . 
Well , he said , if you don't see me in ten days you never will . 
Only ten days ? I echoed . 
I left the flat in considerable dejection after all , unable to decide whether Raffles was really ill , or only worried as I knew him to be . 
And at the foot of the stairs the author of my dismissal , that confounded Theobald , flung open his door and waylaid me . 
Are you going ? he demanded . 
The traps in my hands proclaimed that I was , but I dropped them at his feet to have it out with him then and there . 
I began to wonder what he meant , and how much he did know , and my speculations kept me silent . 
But come in here a moment , he continued , just as I decided that he knew nothing at all . 
And , leading me into his minute consulting room , Dr . 
Theobald braced himself like a recruit at the drill sergeant's voice . 
Of course he is , he snapped so ill as to need a nurse who can nurse , by way of a change . 
But for my misgivings upon this point I might have extracted some very genuine enjoyment out of the next few days . 
He could not even watch a match , from the sixpenny seats , at Lord's cricket ground , where the Gentlemen were every year in a worse way without him . 
He never travelled by rail , and dining out was a risk only to be run with some ulterior object in view . 
In fact , much as it had changed , Raffles could no longer show his face with perfect impunity in any quarter or at any hour . 
Moreover , after the lesson he had now learnt , I foresaw increased caution on his part in this respect . 
Such were my reflections on the way to Richmond in a hansom cab . 
In a week or ten days Raffles was to write to me at the Richmond post office , but for at least a week I should be on my own . 
Really I was not an ill looking youth , if one may call one's self such at the age of thirty . 
I could lay no claim either to the striking cast of countenance or to the peculiar charm of expression which made the face of Raffles like no other in the world . 
But this very distinction was in itself a danger , for its impression was indelible , whereas I might still have been mistaken for a hundred other young fellows at large in London . 
My straw colored moustache , grown in the flat after a protracted holiday , again preserved the most disappointing dimensions , and was still invisible in certain lights without wax . 
I also told him to go through Richmond Park , though he warned me that it would add considerably to the distance and his fare . 
It was autumn , and it struck me that the tints would be fine . 
And I had learnt from Raffles to appreciate such things , even amid the excitement of an audacious enterprise . 
If I dwell upon my appreciation of this occasion it is because , like most pleasures , it was exceedingly short lived . 
But it was on Ham Common , one of the places which Raffles had mentioned as specially desirable , that I actually found an almost ideal retreat . 
This was a cottage where I heard , on inquiry , that rooms were to be let in the summer . 
I secured the rooms , paid a month's rent in advance at my own request , and moped in them dreadfully until the week was up and Raffles due any day . 
I explained that the inspiration would not come , and asked abruptly if the mutton was New Zealand . 
Thrice had I made fruitless inquiries at the Richmond post office but on the tenth day I was in and out almost every hour . 
Not a word was there for me up to th last post at night . 
Home I trudged to Ham with horrible forebodings , and back again to Richmond after breakfast next morning . 
I could bear it no more . 
At ten minutes to eleven I was climbing the station stairs at Earl's Court . 
It was a wretched morning there , a weeping mist shrouding the long , straight street , and clinging to one's face in clammy caresses . 
I had looked up at our windows and the blinds were down ! I rushed within . 
The doctor's door stood open . 
I neither knocked nor rang , but found him in his consulting room with red eyes and a blotchy face . 
Otherwise he was in solemn black from head to heel . 
Who is dead ? I burst out . 
Who is dead ? The red eyes looked redder than ever as Dr . 
Theobald opened them at the unwarrantable sight of me and he was terribly slow in answering . 
But in the end he did answer , and did not kick me out as he evidently had a mind . 
Mr. Maturin , he said , and sighed like a beaten man . 
It was no surprise to me . 
I had known it all these minutes . 
Nay , I had dreaded this from the first , had divined it at the last , though to the last also I had refused to entertain my own conviction . 
Kensington is full of it . 
Are you sure it was typhoid at all ? I cried fiercely to his face . 
Theobald , who turned bright scarlet from his well brushed hair to his immaculate collar . 
I beg your pardon , I said , brokenly . 
He was so good to me I became so attached to him . 
You forget I am originally of his class . 
I did forget it , replied Theobald , looking relieved at my new tone , and I beg YOUR pardon for doing so . 
Hush ! They are bringing him down . 
I must have a drink before we start , and you'd better join me . 
There was no pretence about his drink this time , and a pretty stiff one it was , but I fancy my own must have run it hard . 
In my case it cast a merciful haze over much of the next hour , which I can truthfully describe as one of the most painful of my whole existence . 
I can have known very little of what I was doing . 
I only remember finding myself in a hansom , suddenly wondering why it was going so slowly , and once more awaking to the truth . 
But it was to the truth itself more than to the liquor that I must have owed my dazed condition . 
My next recollection is of looking down into the open grave , in a sudden passionate anxiety to see the name for myself . 
It was not the name of my friend , of course , but it was the one under which he had passed for many months . 
I looked up , and at my side stood a majestic figure in deep mourning . 
The face was carefully veiled , but I was too close not to recognize the masterful beauty whom the world knew as Jacques Saillard . 
I had no sympathy with her on the contrary , my blood boiled with the vague conviction that in some way she was responsible for this death . 
Yet she was the only woman present there were not a half a dozen of us altogether and her flowers were the only flowers . 
The melancholy ceremony was over , and Jacques Saillard had departed in a funeral brougham , evidently hired for the occasion . 
I was the last to leave , and had turned my back upon the grave diggers , already at their final task , when a hand fell lightly but firmly upon my shoulder . 
I don't want to make a scene in a cemetery , said a voice , in a not unkindly , almost confidential whisper . 
Will you get into your own cab and come quietly ? Who on earth are you ? I exclaimed . 
I now remembered having seen the fellow hovering about during the funeral , and subconsciously taking him for the undertaker's head man . 
He had certainly that appearance , and even now I could scarcely believe that he was anything else . 
My name won't help you , he said , pityingly . 
But you will guess where I come from when I tell you I have a warrant for your arrest . 
My sensations at this announcement may not be believed , but I solemnly declare that I have seldom experienced so fierce a satisfaction . 
It was as though I had lost a limb and some one had struck me so hard in the face that the greater agony was forgotten . 
I got into the hansom without a word , my captor following at my heels , and giving his own directions to the cabman before taking his seat . 
The word station was the only one I caught , and I wondered whether it was to be Bow Street again . 
My companion's next words , however , or rather the tone in which he uttered them , destroyed my capacity for idle speculation . 
Mr. Maturin ! said he . 
Mr. Maturin indeed ! Well , said I , what about him ? Do you think we don't know who he was ? Who was he ? I asked , defiantly . 
You ought to know , said he . 
You got locked up through him the other time , too . 
His favorite name was Raffles then . 
It was his real name , I said , indignantly . 
And he has been dead for years . 
Next moment I saw this for myself , and my tears came nearer the surface than they had been yet but the fellow at my side laughed outright . 
Shall I tell you something else ? said he . 
I had no use for speech . 
I did not even ask him if he was sure , I was so sure myself . 
It was all as plain to me as riddles usually are when one has the answer . 
He is alive ! I cried . 
Already I was figuring out how much we might each get , and how old we should be when we came out . 
But my companion tilted his hat to the back of his head , at the same time putting his face close to mine , and compelling my scrutiny . 
, and yet so thinly that I should have known him in a trice had I not been too miserable in the beginning to give him a second glance . 
Jacques Saillard had made his life impossible , and this was the one escape . 
Here the details were half humorous , half grewsome , each in turn as Raffles told me the story . 
had been impiously interred at Kensal Green . 
, I was assured and am convinced that he would have kept his promise to the letter . 
In explaining this he gave me the one explanation I desired , and in another moment we turned into Praed Street , Paddington . 
That's why I hadn't written . 
The function was a day later than I calculated . 
I was going to write to night . 
But what are we to do ? said I , hesitating when he had paid the cab . 
We'll settle that in the train . 
I had to apologize to her for the painful prejudices and violent language of these colonists , but the old soul was easily mollified . 
She had fallen in love with my brother at first sight , and she never could do too much for him . 
This won't do , said he to me . 
It's a name that sticks . 
It must be my fault ! She must have heard it from me , said I self reproachfully . 
You must tell her it's the short for Ralph . 
It's the short , said he and you've got to tell her so . 
It was an ideal cottage , as I said when I found it , and in it our delicate man became rapidly robust . 
Not that the air was also ideal , for , when it was not raining , we had the same faithful mist from November to March . 
But it was something to Ralph to get any air at all , other than night air , and the bicycle did the rest . 
Raffles rode a Beeston Humber , a Royal Sunbeam was good enough for me , but he insisted on our both having Dunlop tires . 
They seem the most popular brand . 
I had my eye on the road all the way from Ripley to Cobham , and there were more Dunlop marks than any other kind . 
That was the winter when there were so many burglaries in the Thames Valley from Richmond upward . 
We had indeed fallen upon our feet . 
Also , the misty nights might have been made for the thieves . 
But their success was not so consistent , and never so enormous as people said , especially the sufferers , who lost more valuables than they had ever been known to possess . 
Failure was often the caitiff's portion , and disaster once owing , ironically enough , to that very mist which should have served them . 
But as I am going to tell the story with some particularity , and perhaps some gusto , you will see why who read . 
The right house was the residence of an opulent stockbroker who wore a heavy watch chain and seemed fair game . 
There would have been two objections to it had I been the stockbroker . 
The house was one of a row , though a goodly row , and an army crammer had established himself next door . 
It was none of our business to spy upon these boys , but their manners and customs fell within the field of observation . 
And we did not choose the night upon which the whole row was likely to be kept awake . 
The night that we did choose was as misty as even the Thames Valley is capable of making them . 
We had promised her a liberal perquisite in the event of our success , but she must not give other cyclists our idea by mentioning it to a soul . 
I often wonder why the pantry window is the vulnerable point of nine houses out of ten . 
This house of ours was almost the tenth , for the window in question had bars of sorts , but not the right sort . 
Barred windows are usually devoid of other fasteners worthy the name this one was no exception to that foolish rule , and a push with the pen knife did its business . 
I am giving householders some valuable hints , and perhaps deserving a good mark from the critics . 
These , in any case , are the points that I would see to , were I a rich stockbroker in a riverside suburb . 
It proved sufficient to unscrew the bars at the bottom only , and then to wrench them to either side . 
Neither of us had grown stout with advancing years , and in a few minutes we both had wormed through into the sink , and thence to the floor . 
It was not an absolutely noiseless process , but once in the pantry we were mice , and no longer blind mice . 
There was a gas bracket , but we did not meddle with that . 
Raffles went armed these nights with a better light than gas if it were not immoral , I might recommend a dark lantern which was more or less his patent . 
It was that handy invention , the electric torch , fitted by Raffles with a dark hood to fulfil the functions of a slide . 
I had held it through the bars while he undid the screws , and now he held it to the keyhole , in which a key was turned upon the other side . 
There was a pause for consideration , and in the pause we put on our masks . 
It was a point upon which Raffles had insisted on all feasible occasions since his furtive return to the world . 
To night it twice nearly lost us everything but you shall hear . 
There is a forceps for turning keys from the wrong side of the door , but the implement is not so easy of manipulation as it might be . 
Raffles for one preferred a sharp knife and the corner of the panel . 
You go through the panel because that is thinnest , of course in the corner nearest the key , and you use a knife when you can , because it makes least noise . 
The most solemn student of these annals cannot affirm that he has cut through many doors in our company , since the maiden effort to which I allude . 
This time it was neither one nor the other , for with that very word victory upon his lips , they whitened and parted with the first taste of defeat . 
My hand's held ! gasped Raffles , and the white of his eyes showed all round the iris , a rarer thing than you may think . 
At the same moment I heard the shuffling feet and the low , excited young voices on the other side of the door , and a faint light shone round Raffles's wrist . 
They've got me tight , he whispered . 
Blaze through the door , I urged , and might have done it had I been armed . 
It was Raffles who monopolized that risk . 
I can't it's the boys the wrong house ! he whispered . 
Curse the fog it's done me . 
But you get out , Bunn , while you can never mind me it's my turn , old chap . 
His one hand tightened in affectionate farewell . 
I put the electric torch in it before I went , trembling in every inch , but without a word . 
Get out ! His turn ! Yes , I would get out , but only to come in again , for it was my turn mine not his . 
Would Raffles leave me held by a hand through a hole in a door ? What he would have done in my place was the thing for me to do now . 
I began by diving head first through the pantry window and coming to earth upon all fours . 
But even as I stood up , and brushed the gravel from the palms of my hands and the knees of my knickerbockers , I had no notion what to do next . 
He's into the next garden , I cried to a bevy of pyjamas with bare feet and young faces at either end of them . 
Who ? Who ? said they , giving way before me . 
Some fellow who came through one of your windows head first . 
The other Johnny , the other Johnny , the cherubs chorused . 
Biking past saw the light why , what have you there ? Of course it was Raffles's hand that they had , but now I was in the hall among them . 
A red faced barrel of a boy did all the holding , one hand round the wrist , the other palm to palm , and his knees braced up against the panel . 
Another was rendering ostentatious but ineffectual aid , and three or four others danced about in their pyjamas . 
After all , they were not more than four to one . 
I had raised my voice , so that Raffles might hear me and take heart , and now I raised it again . 
Yet to this day I cannot account for my inspiration , that proved nothing less . 
Don't talk so loud , they were crying below their breath don't wake 'em upstairs , this is our show . 
Then I see you've got one of them , said I , as desired . 
Well , if you want the other you can have him , too . 
I believe he's hurt himself . 
After him , after him ! they exclaimed as one . 
But I think he got over the wall Come on , you chaps , come on ! And there was a soft stampede to the hall door . 
Don't all desert me , I say ! gasped the red faced hero who held Raffles prisoner . 
We must have them both , Beefy ! That's all very well Look here , I interposed , I'll stay by you . 
I've a friend outside , I'll get him too . 
Thanks awfully , said the valiant Beefy . 
The hall was empty now . 
How did you hear them ? I inquired , my eye running over him . 
We were down having drinks game o' Nap in there . 
Beefy jerked his great head toward an open door , and the tail of my eye caught the glint of glasses in the firelight , but the rest of it was otherwise engaged . 
Let me relieve you , I said , trembling . 
No , I'm all right . 
As it was , I squeezed and tugged until one strong hand gave way after the other and came feeling round for me , but feebly because they had held on so long . 
Steady on , Bunny ! And I saw that Beefy's ears were blue but Raffles was feeling in his pockets as he spoke . 
Now let him breathe , said he , clapping his handkerchief over the poor youth's mouth . 
An empty vial was in his other hand , and the first few stertorous breaths that the poor boy took were the end of him for the time being . 
Oh , but it was villainous , my part especially , for he must have been far gone to go the rest of the way so readily . 
I began by saying I was not proud of this deed , but its dastardly character has come home to me more than ever with the penance of writing it out . 
I see in myself , at least my then self , things that I never saw quite so clearly before . 
Yet let me be quite sure that I would not do the same again . 
, but only to extricate Raffles from the most hopeless position he was ever in and after all it was better than a blow from behind . 
On the whole , I will not alter a word , nor whine about the thing any more . 
We lifted the plucky fellow into Raffles's place in the pantry , locked the door on him , and put the key through the panel . 
Now was the moment for thinking of ourselves , and again that infernal mask which Raffles swore by came near the undoing of us both . 
A stout man with a blonde moustache was on the stairs , in his pyjamas like the boys . 
What are you doing here ? said he . 
There has been an attempt upon your house , said I , still spokesman for the night , and still on the wings of inspiration . 
Well , they heard it , drove off the thieves , and have given chase . 
And where do you come in ? inquired the stout man , descending . 
We were bicycling past , and I actually saw one fellow come head first through your pantry window . 
I think he got over the wall . 
Here a breathless boy returned . 
Can't see anything of him , he gasped . 
It's true , then , remarked the crammer . 
Look at that door , said I. But unfortunately the breathless boy looked also , and now he was being joined by others equally short of wind . 
Where's Beefy ? he screamed . 
I see lights in the class room , and more than lights . 
Can these be signs of a carouse ? A very innocent one , sir , said a well set up youth with more moustache than I have yet . 
Well , Olphert , boys will be boys . 
Suppose you tell me what happened , before we come to recriminations . 
The bad old proverb was my first warning . 
I caught two of the youths exchanging glances under raised eyebrows . 
I was nevertheless itching to be gone . 
Young Olphert told his story with engaging candor . 
It was true that they had come down for an hour's Nap and cigarettes well , and there was no denying that there was whiskey in the glasses . 
stood on the threshold , with an eye each way . 
The more I saw of the man the better I liked and the more I feared him . 
His chief annoyance thus far was that they had not called him when they heard the noise , that they had dreamt of leaving him out of the fun . 
But he seemed more hurt than angry about that . 
Some of you must have heard me say I'd fetch my friend in from the road ? Yes , I did , piped an innocentfrom within . 
Well , and when I came back with him things were exactly as you see them now . 
Evidently the man's strength was too much for the boy's but whether he ran upstairs or outside I know no more than you do . 
It wasn't like that boy to run either way , said the crammer , cocking a clear blue eye on me . 
But if he gave chase ! It wasn't like him even to let go . 
I don't believe Beefy ever would , put in Olphert . 
That's why we gave him the billet . 
He may have followed him through the pantry window , I suggested wildly . 
But the door's shut , put in a boy . 
I'll have a look at it , said the crammer . 
Indeed , I had forgotten him . 
But its effect upon the others is more interesting to recall . 
Until now the crammer had the centre of the stage , but at this point Raffles usurped a place which was always his at will . 
People would wait for what he had to say , as these people waited now for the simplest and most natural thing in the world . 
One moment ! he had begun . 
Well ? said the crammer , relieving me of his eyes at last . 
I don't want to lose any of the fun Nor must you , said the crammer , with emphasis . 
But we've left our bikes outside , and mine's a Beeston Humber , continued Raffles . 
If you don't mind , we'll bring 'em in before these fellows get away on them . 
And out he went without a look to see the effect of his words , I after him with a determined imitation of his self control . 
But I would have given something to turn round . 
That moment , however , made the difference . 
We rushed our machines to the nearer gate , for both were shut , and we got through and swung it home behind us in the nick of time . 
Even I could mount before they could reopen the gate , which Raffles held against them for half an instant with unnecessary gallantry . 
But he would see me in front of him , and so it fell to me to lead the way . 
, and also that these houses were on a hill . 
But they were not nearly on the top of the hill , and I did what I firmly believe that almost everybody would have done in my place . 
Raffles , indeed , said he would have done it himself , but that was his generosity , and he was the one man who would not . 
Can you turn in your own length ? asked Raffles , following loyally . 
But it's the devil of a hill ! And here they come ! Let them , said Raffles , and brandished his electric torch , our only light as yet . 
Of course the boys could charge up it quicker than we could pedal , but I even heard the voice of their stout instructor growing louder through the mist . 
I glanced at Raffles , and in the white light of his torch he was doing it all with his ankles , exactly as though he had been riding in a Gymkhana . 
It's the most sporting chase I was ever in , said he . 
No , he must ride a wheel's length behind me , and now we could not only hear the boys running , but breathing also . 
I saw no more of that . 
His wheel's length saved him . 
I looked back at Raffles . 
He had put up his feet . 
There was a lamp post on the hill top , and that was the last I saw . 
The big gates had long been shut , but you can manoeuvre a bicycle through the others . 
We had no further adventures on the way home , and our coffee was still warm upon the hob . 
But I think it's an occasion for Sullivans , said Raffles , who now kept them for such . 
Turning your torch into a truncheon ? My dear Bunny ! A gallant lad I hated hitting him . 
I know , I said . 
The way you got us out of the house ! No , Bunny , said Raffles , blowing rings . 
But Raffles had a ruder name for it . 
It was the Apotheosis of the Bunny , said he , but in a tone I never shall forget . 
I hardly knew what I was doing or saying , I said . 
The whole thing was a fluke . 
Then , said Raffles , it was the kind of fluke I always trusted you to make when runs were wanted . 
And he held out his dear old hand . 
THE KNEES OF THE GODS I The worst of this war , said Raffles , is the way it puts a fellow off his work . 
It was , of course , the winter before last , and we had done nothing dreadful since the early autumn . 
Undoubtedly the war was the cause . 
Not that we were among the earlier victims of the fever . 
I took disgracefully little interest in the Negotiations , while the Ultimatum appealed to Raffles as a sporting flutter . 
Then we gave the whole thing till Christmas . 
We still missed the cricket in the papers . 
We were never again without our sheaf of evening papers , and Raffles ordered three morning ones , and I gave up mine in spite of its literary page . 
We knew exactly what Buller was to do on landing , and , still better , what the other Generals should have done . 
Our map was the best that could be bought , with flags that deserved a better fate than standing still . 
Raffles woke me to hear The Absent Minded Beggar on the morning it appeared he was one of the first substantial subscribers to the fund . 
By this time our dear landlady was more excited than we . 
To our enthusiasm for Thomas she added a personal bitterness against the Wild Boars , as she persisted in calling them , each time as though it were the first . 
I could linger over our landlady's attitude in the whole matter . 
That was her only joke about it , and the true humorist never smiled at it herself . 
She could put him in a cage and go on tour with him , and make him howl and dance for his food like a debased bear before a fresh audience every day . 
Yet a more kind hearted woman I have neverknown . 
The war did not uplift our landlady as it did her lodgers . 
But presently it ceased to have that precise effect upon us . 
Old school fellows had fallen , and I know Raffles envied them he spoke so wistfully of such an end . 
There was less crime in England that winter than for years past there was none at all in Raffles . 
It struck me at once as the glorious scheme it was to prove , but it did not hit me where it hit others . 
I was not a fox hunter , and the gentlemen of England would scarcely have owned me as one of them . 
, and he seemed to feel it . 
He would not speak to me all the morning in the afternoon he went for a walk alone . 
It was another man who came home , flourishing a small bottle packed in white paper . 
Bunny , said he , I never did lift my elbow it's the one vice I never had . 
Look and see , Bunny . 
Dulce et decorum est , Bunny , my boy ! Do you mean that you are going to the front ? If I can without coming to it . 
I saw him captain of the eleven at school . 
I saw him running with the muddy ball on days like this , running round the other fifteen as a sheep dog round a flock of sheep . 
He had his cap on still , and but for the gray hairs underneath but here I lost him in a sudden mist . 
It was not sorrow at his going , for I did not mean to let him go alone . 
It was a little thrill of penitence . 
I think it great of you , I said , and at first that was all . 
How he laughed at me . 
He had had his innings there was no better way of getting out . 
He had scored off an African millionaire , the Players , a Queensland Legislator , the Camorra , the late Lord Ernest Belville , and again and again off Scotland Yard . 
What more could one man do in one lifetime ? And at the worst it was the death to die no bed , no doctor , no temperature and Raffles stopped himself . 
No pinioning , no white cap , he added , if you like that better . 
I don't like any of it , I cried , cordially you've simply got to come back . 
To what ? he asked , a strange look on him . 
And I wondered for one instant whether my little thrill had gone through him . 
He was not a man of little thrills . 
Then for a minute I was in misery . 
You rabbit , he cried , even to think of it ! We might as well offer ourselves to the Metropolitan Police Force . 
No , Bunny , we go out to the Cape on our own , and that's where we enlist . 
I don't think even my hoary locks would put them off , but it would be too conspicuous in the ranks . 
but from that day , and for as many as were left to us , the good soul made more of us than ever . 
I wanted to wink at Raffles , but he would not catch my eye . 
He was a ginger headed Raffles by the end of January , and it was extraordinary what a difference it made . 
It was a weeping day , a day in a shroud , cold as clay , yet for that very reason an ideal day upon which to leave England for the sunny Front . 
Yet my heart was heavy as I looked my last at her it was heavy as the raw , thick air , until Raffles came and leant upon the rail at my side . 
I know what you are thinking , and you've got to stop , said he . 
It's on the knees of the gods , Bunny , whether we do or we don't , and thinking won't make us see over their shoulders . 
as Raffles made a good one , and I could not say a harder thing of myself . 
My ignorance of matters military was up to that time unfathomable , and is still profound . 
I was always a fool with horses , though I did not think so at one time , and I had never been any good with a gun . 
The average Tommy may be my intellectual inferior , but he must know some part of his work better than I ever knew any of mine . 
I never even learnt to be killed . 
I do not mean that I ever ran away . 
The South African Field Force might have been strengthened if I had . 
in which one has acquitted oneself without discredit , and I cannot say that of my part in the war , of which I now loathe the thought for other reasons . 
The battlefield was no place for me , and neither was the camp . 
Your fireside fire eater does not think of these things . 
He imagines all the fighting to be with the enemy . 
, I dedicate the story of Corporal Connal , Captain Bellingham , the General , Raffles , and myself . 
I must be vague , for obvious reasons . 
The troop is fighting as I write you will soon hear why I am not but neither is Raffles , nor Corporal Connal . 
I believe that no body of men of equal size has done half so much heroic work . 
The fellow was a mongrel type , a Glasgow Irishman by birth and upbringing , but he had been in South Africa for years , and he certainly knew the country very well . 
Connal was a hulking ruffian , and in me had ideal game . 
The brute was offensive to me from the hour I joined . 
The details are of no importance , but I stood up to him at first in words , and finally for a few seconds on my feet . 
Then I went down like an ox , and Raffles came out of his tent . 
Their fight lasted twenty minutes , and Raffles was marked , but the net result was dreadfully conventional , for the bully was a bully no more . 
But I began gradually to suspect that he was something worse . 
All this time we were fighting every day , or so it seems when I look back . 
Never a great engagement , and yet never a day when we were wholly out of touch with the enemy . 
I had thus several opportunities of watching the other enemy under fire , and had almost convinced myself of the systematic harmlessness of his own shooting , when a more glaring incident occurred . 
It appeared that we were to form an escort to two squadron wagons containing kits , provisions , and ammunition . 
Before daylight Connal had reported his departure to the commanding officer , and we passed the outposts at gray dawn . 
Did he get the instructions , Bunny , or did we ? Very well , then give the devil a chance . 
There was nothing further to be said , but I felt more crushed than convinced so we jogged along into broad daylight , until Raffles himself gave a whistle of surprise . 
A little longer , and the shaggy Boer was in our midst upon his shaggy pony , with a half scared , half incredulous look in his deep set eyes . 
He was on his way to our lines with some missive , and had little enough to say to us , though frivolous and flippant questions were showered upon him from most saddles . 
Any Boers over there ? asked one , pointing in the direction in which we were still heading . 
Shut up ! interjected Raffles in crisp rebuke . 
The Boer looked stolid but sinister . 
Any of our chaps ? added another . 
The Boer rode on with an open grin . 
I have said this was the conclusion of the matter , and I blush to repeat that it practically was . 
Connal was indeed wheeled up before the colonel , but his instructions were not written instructions , and he lied his way out with equal hardihood and tact . 
You said 'over there , sir , he stoutly reiterated and the vagueness with which such orders were undoubtedly given was the saving of him for the time being . 
I need not tell you how indignant I felt , for one . 
The fellow is a spy ! I said to Raffles , with no nursery oath , as we strolled within the lines that night . 
He merely smiled in my face . 
And have you only just found it out , Bunny ? I have known it almost ever since we joined but this morning I did think we had him on toast . 
It's disgraceful that we had not , cried I. He ought to have been shot like a dog . 
Not so loud , Bunny , though I quite agree but I don't regret what has happened as much as you do . 
He was clever enough , however , not to betray them , and lucky enough to turn the tables on us , as you shall hear . 
Constant skirmishing was our portion , with now and then an action that you would know at least by name , did I feel free to mention them . 
But I do not , and indeed it is better so . 
Corporal Connal was the dangerous blackguard you have seen . 
But I only think of him as the officer who recognized Raffles . 
We had taken a village , making quite a little name for it and for ourselves , and in the village our division was reinforced by a fresh brigade of the Imperial troops . 
Peter Bellingham ! gasped Raffles under his breath , and then we saluted and tried to pass on , with the bottles ringing like church bells under our khaki . 
But Captain Bellingham was a hard man . 
What have you men been doin' ? drawled he . 
Nothing , sir , we protested , like innocence with an injury . 
Lootin' 's forbidden , said he . 
You had better let me see those bottles . 
We are done , whispered Raffles , and straightway we made a sideboard of the stoop across which he had crept at so inopportune a moment . 
I had not the heart to raise my eyes again , yet it was many moments before the officer broke silence . 
Uam Var ! he murmured reverentially at last . 
And Long John of Ben Nevis ! The first drop that's been discovered in the whole psalm singing show ! What lot do you two belong to ? I answered . 
I must have your names . 
In my agitation I gave my real one . 
Raffles had turned away , as though in heart broken contemplation of our lost loot . 
I saw the officer studying his half profile with an alarming face . 
What's YOUR name ? he rapped out at last . 
But his strange , low voice said plainly that he knew , and Raffles faced him with the monosyllable of confession and assent . 
I did not count the seconds until the next word , but it was Captain Bellingham who uttered it at last . 
I thought you were dead . 
Now you see I am not . 
But you are at your old games ! I am not , cried Raffles , and his tone was new to me . 
I have seldom heard one more indignant . 
Yes , he continued , this is loot , and the wrong 'un will out . 
That's what you're thinking , Peter I beg your pardon sir . 
But he isn't let out in the field ! We're playing the game as much as you are , old sir . 
The plural number caused the captain to toss me a contemptuous look . 
Is this the fellah who was taken when you swam for it ? he inquired , relapsing into his drawl . 
Raffles said I was , and with that took a passionate oath upon our absolute rectitude as volunteers . 
There could be no doubting him but the officer's eyes went back at the bottles on the stoop . 
But look at those , said he and as he looked himself the light eye melted in his fiery face . 
And I've got Sparklets in my tent , he sighed . 
You make it in a minute ! Not a word from Raffles , and none , you may be sure , from me . 
You can bring that stuff with you , he then flung over a shoulder strap , and I advise you to put it where you had it before . 
A trooper saluted him some yards further on , and looked evilly at us as we followed with our loot . 
It was Corporal Connal of ours , and the thought of him takes my mind off the certainly gallant captain who only that day had joined our division with the reinforcements . 
I could not stand the man myself . 
He added soda water to our whiskey in his tent , and would only keep a couple of bottles when we came away . 
On parting they even shook hands that was Long John in the captain's head but the snob never addressed a syllable to me . 
And now to the gallows bird who was still corporal of our troop it was not long before Raffles was to have his wish and the traitor's wicket . 
It was a curious casualty in more than one respect , and nobody seems to have seen it happen . 
There were trenches for us men , but no place of safety for our horses nearer than this long and narrow donga which ran from within our lines towards those of the Boers . 
So some of us galloped them thither , six in hand , amid the whine of shrapnel and the whistle of shot . 
I have found the spot , Bunny , he whispered we ought to out him before the night is over . 
You know what happened to some of his horses last night ? Well , he let them go himself . 
Never ! I'm as certain of it , said Raffles , as though I'd seen him do it and if he does it again I shall see him . 
I can even tell you how it happened . 
Connal insisted on having one end of the donga to himself , and of course his end is the one nearest the Boers . 
Well , then , he tells the other fellows to go to sleep at their end I have it direct from one of them and you bet they don't need a second invitation . 
The rest I hope to see to night . 
Brutes ! A mounted man's worth a file on foot in this country , and well they know it . 
They were led with a dash , and handled with a skill , which did not always characterize their commanders at this stage of the war . 
Their position was very similar to ours , and indeed we were to spend the whole of next day in trying with an equal will to turn each other out . 
The result will scarcely be forgotten by those who recognize the occasion from these remarks . 
, and there was that villain with the horses in the donga , and here were we two upon his track . 
Raffles's plan was to reconnoitre the place , and then take up a position from which we could watch our man and pounce upon him if he gave us cause . 
That's his revolver , and it's a Mauser , whispered Raffles . 
He shan't have a chance of using it on us either we must be on him before he knows we are anywhere near , or simply report . 
It's easily proved once we are sure but I should like to have the taking of him too . 
There was a setting moon . 
Shadows were sharp and black . 
The man smoked steadily , and the hungry horses did what I never saw horses do before they stood and nibbled at each other's tails . 
I was used to sleeping in the open , under the jewelled dome that seems so much vaster and grander in these wide spaces of the earth . 
I lay listening to the horses , and to the myriad small strange voices of the veldt , to which I cannot even now put a name , while Raffles watched . 
One head is better than two , he said , when you don't want it to be seen . 
Nor was there any time for recriminations when he did rouse me in the end . 
That's his third , whispered Raffles , but it's the first I've seen distinctly , for he waited for the blind spot before the dawn . 
It's enough to land him , I fancy , but we mustn't lose time . 
Are you ready for a creep ? I stretched myself , and said I was but I devoutly wished it was not quite so early in the morning . 
Like cats , then , till he hears , and then into him for all we're worth . 
He's stowed his iron safe away , but he mustn't have time even to feel for it . 
You take his left arm , Bunny , and hang on to that like a ferret , and I'll do the rest . 
But he soon gave that up , panting and blaspheming , demanded explanations in his hybrid tongue that had half a brogue and half a burr . 
So it's you two ! he cried , and a light broke over him . 
He was no longer trying to shake us off , and now he dropped his curses also , and stood chuckling to himself instead . 
Well , he went on , you're bloody liars both , but I know something else that you are , so you'd better let go . 
A coldness ran through me , and I never saw Raffles so taken aback . 
You're breaking my wrist ! he yelled at last . 
Then stand still and tell us who we are . 
And he stood still and told us our real names . 
But Raffles insisted on hearing how he had found us out , and smiled as though he had known what was coming when it came . 
The accursed hound had followed us that evening to Captain Bellingham's tent , and his undoubted cleverness in his own profession of spy had done the rest . 
And now you'd better let me go , said the master of the situation , as I for one could not help regarding him . 
I'll see you damned , said Raffles , savagely . 
Then you're damned and done for yourself , my cocky criminal . 
Raffles the burglar ! Raffles the society thief ! Not dead after all , but 'live and 'listed . 
Come on , Bunny , let's drive the swine along and get it over . 
And drive him we did , he cursing , cajoling , struggling , gloating , and blubbering by turns . 
But Raffles never wavered for an instant , though his face was tragic , and it went to my heart , where that look stays still . 
I remember at the time , though I never let my hold relax , there was a moment when I added my entreaties to those of our prisoner . 
Raffles did not even reply to me . 
But I was thinking of him , I swear . 
I was thinking of that gray set face that I never saw before or after . 
Your story will be tested , said the commanding officer , when Connal had been marched to the guard tent . 
Is there any truth in his ? It is perfectly true , sir . 
And the notorious Raffles has been alive all these years , and you are really he ? I am , sir . 
It was only his eyes that lighted up at the last question . 
I am fighting , sir , said he , as simply as any subaltern in the army . 
The commanding officer inclined a grizzled head perceptibly , and no more . 
He once told us that he knew something about most of us , and there were things that Raffles had done of which he must have heard . 
But he only moved his grizzled head . 
Did you know he was going to give you away ? he asked at length , with a jerk of it toward the guard tent . 
But you thought it worth while , did you ? I thought it necessary , sir . 
The General paused , drumming on his table , making up his mind . 
Then his chin came up with the decision that we loved in him . 
I shall sift all this , said he . 
An officer's name was mentioned , and I shall see him myself . 
Meanwhile you had better go on fighting . 
IV Corporal Connal paid the penalty of his crime before the sun was far above the hill held by the enemy . 
There was abundance of circumstantial evidence against him , besides the direct testimony of Raffles and myself , and the wretch was shot at last with little ceremony and less shrift . 
And that was the one good thing that happened on the day that broke upon us hiding behind the bushes overlooking the donga by noon it was my own turn . 
I have avoided speaking of my wound before I need , and from the preceding pages you would not gather that I am more or less lame for life . 
You will soon see now why I was in no hurry to recall the incident . 
I used to think of a wound received in one's country's service as the proudest trophy a man could acquire . 
our hardy little corps happened to excel . 
we moved neither forward nor back . 
He was talking all the time , but for my sake , and I knew it . 
Can you wonder that I could not see an inch beyond him ? He was the battle to me then he is the whole war to me as I look back now . 
Feel equal to a cigarette ? It will buck you up , Bunny . 
No , that one in the silver paper , I've hoarded it for this . 
I was as hot as a cinder from my head to one foot the other leg was ceasing to belong to me . 
Wait a bit , says Raffles , puckering there's a gray felt hat at deep long on , and I want to add it to the bag for vengeance . 
Wait yes no , no luck ! I must pitch 'em up a bit more . 
But Raffles lay looking at me as he lightened his bandolier . 
Too slow , he said quickly . 
But when we did catch , I went on , wishing we never had , we soon burnt up . 
And then went out , laughed Raffles gayly . 
He was loaded up again . 
Another over at the gray felt hat , said he by Jove , though , I believe he's having an over at me ! I wish you'd be careful , I urged . 
My dear Bunny , it's on the knees you wot of . 
If anything's down in the specifications surely that is . 
Besides that was nearer ! To you ? No , to him . 
Poor devil , he has his specifications too it's comforting to think that . 
I can't see where that one pitched it may have been a wide and it's very nearly the end of the over again . 
Feeling worse , Bunny ? No , I've only closed my eyes . 
It was I who let you in for this , he said , at his bandolier again . 
No , I'm glad I came out . 
Ah , but you haven't had such a good time as I have ! Perhaps not . 
Yet all that I heard was Raffles talking . 
I have had a good time , Bunny . 
Yes , his voice was sad but that was all the vibration must have been in me . 
I know you have , old chap , said I. I am grateful to the General for giving me to day . 
It may be the last . 
Then I can only say it's been the best by Jove ! What is it ? And I opened my eyes . 
I can see them now . 
Got him got the hat ! No , I'm hanged if I have at least he wasn't in it . 
The crafty cuss , he must have stuck it up on purpose . 
I wonder if he's sportsman enough to take a hint ? His hat trick's foolish . 
Will he show his face if I show mine ? I lay with closed ears and eyes . 
My leg had come to life again , and the rest of me was numb . 
Bunny ! His voice sounded higher . 
He must have been sitting upright . 
Well ? But it was not well with me that was all I thought as my lips made the word . 
