The Further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk The Further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe CHAPTER I REVISITS ISLAND THAT homely proverb , used on so many occasions in England , viz . 
That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh , was never more verified than in the story of my Life . 
In particular , the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island , and the colony I left there , ran in my head continually . 
But to return to my story . 
To this purpose , I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford , and resolved to remove myself thither . 
My thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my servants , cultivating the ground , enclosing , planting , c . 
and I lived , as I thought , the most agreeable life that nature was capable of directing , or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable of retreating to . 
This blow was the loss of my wife . 
I was happy in listening to her , and in being moved by her entreaties and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the loss of her . 
When she was gone , the world looked awkwardly round me . 
I knew neither what to think nor what to do . 
But my sage counsellor was gone I was like a ship without a pilot , that could only run afore the wind . 
In a word , I resolved to leave off housekeeping , let my farm , and return to London and in a few months after I did so . 
I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal , sir , says he . 
I daresay you would be pleased to see your new colony there , where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your brother monarchs in the world . 
Besides , sir , if I should miscarry , said he , and not return at all , then you would be just reduced to the condition you were in before . 
and near a hundred pounds more in ironwork , nails , tools of every kind , staples , hooks , hinges , and every necessary thing I could think of . 
We set out on the th of February from Ireland , and had a very fair gale of wind for some days . 
We perceived they rowed , the wind being against them that they saw our ship , and did their utmost to make us see them . 
Upon inquiry we found it was a French merchant ship of three hundred tons , home bound from Quebec . 
This revived their hearts , and gave them the notice , which , as above , I desired it should , that there was a ship at hand for their help . 
It was upon the hearing of these guns that they took down their masts and sails the sound coming from the windward , they resolved to lie by till morning . 
Some time after this , hearing no more guns , they fired three muskets , one a considerable while after another but these , the wind being contrary , we never heard . 
I am not philosopher enough to determine the cause but nothing I had ever seen before came up to it . 
There were two priests among them one an old man , and the other a young man and that which was strangest was , the oldest man was the worst . 
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship , and saw himself safe , he dropped down stone dead to all appearance . 
At length he opened a vein in his arm , having first chafed and rubbed the part , so as to warm it as much as possible . 
It seems he had begun to revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind , and again this put him into an ecstasy of joy . 
The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions , and was really an example of a serious , well governed mind . 
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him , and not only left him , but kept others from interrupting him also . 
Nothing of good manners , or civil acknowledgments for the kindness shown them , was wanting the French , it is known , are naturally apt enough to exceed that way . 
So I consented that we would carry them to Newfoundland , if wind and weather would permit and if not , I would carry them to Martinico , in the West Indies . 
The wind continued fresh easterly , but the weather pretty good and as the winds had continued in the points between NE . 
a long time , we missed several opportunities of sending them to France for we met several ships bound to Europe , whereof two were French , from St . 
CHAPTER II INTERVENING HISTORY OF COLONY IT was in the latitude of degrees minutes N. , on the th day of March , when we spied a sail , our course SE . 
The weather was pretty good , wind at NNW . 
a fresh gale , and we soon came to speak with her . 
They told us they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands , but were then driven away again to the south east , by a strong gale of wind at NNW . 
I had perhaps not known this part , if my curiosity had not led me , the weather being fair and the wind abated , to go on board the ship . 
But now they were in a new danger for they were afraid of eating too much , even of that little we gave them . 
In the meantime I forgot not the men . 
My mate said all he could to revive and encourage her , and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth . 
I was now in the latitude of degrees minutes , and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather , though at first the winds had been contrary . 
I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind , weather , currents , c . 
, on the rest of our voyage but to shorten my story , shall observe that I came to my old habitation , the island , on the th of April . 
Why so , Friday ? how do you know that ? Oh no , Oh no , says Friday , he long ago die , long ago he much old man . 
We had , besides , about sixteen men well armed , if we had found any new guests there which we did not know of but we had no need of weapons . 
He was no sooner on shore , but he flew away to his father like an arrow out of a bow . 
But this is a digression I return to my landing . 
It would be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the Spaniards received me with . 
The first Spaniard , whom , as I said , I knew very well , was he whose life I had saved . 
While I was saying this , the man came whom he had sent back , and with him eleven more . 
In the dress they were in it was impossible to guess what nation they were of but he made all clear , both to them and to me . 
He told me there was little variety in that part , for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way , having had very calm weather and a smooth sea . 
In these they came away the next morning . 
nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with anything else , for they agreed very well for some time . 
, and had taken the ship's pinnace , which was not yet hauled up , and run away with her to their companions in roguery on shore . 
Why , says the Spaniard , very calmly , Seignior Inglese , they must not starve . 
The Englishman replied , like a rough tarpaulin , They might starve they should not plant nor build in that place . 
But what must they do then , seignior ? said the Spaniard . 
Another of the brutes returned , Do ? they should be servants , and work for them . 
But how can you expect that of them ? says the Spaniard they are not bought with your money you have no right to make them servants . 
Why , seignior , says the Spaniard , by the same rule , we must be your servants , too . 
Ay , returned the bold dog , and so you shall , too , before we have done with you mixing two or three oaths in the proper intervals of his speech . 
The Spaniard only smiled at that , and made him no answer . 
However , this little discourse had heated them and starting up , one says to the other . 
, Come , Jack , let's go and have t'other brush with them we'll demolish their castle , I'll warrant you they shall plant no colony in our dominions . 
As malice seldom sleeps very sound , it was very strange they should not have been kept awake . 
The rogues were now quite deaf to all reason , and being refused their arms , they raved away like madmen , threatening what they would do , though they had no firearms . 
However , this was far from cooling them , but away they went , raging and swearing like furies . 
should pursue them with firearms , and perhaps kill them . 
At length they did consent , and waited for the issue of the thing , living for some days with the Spaniards for their own habitation was destroyed . 
It was not above a week after they had these arms , and went abroad , before the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and troublesome as ever . 
Having made some noise with rising and walking about , going out and coming in , another of them waked , and asked who it was that was up . 
The governor told him how it had been with him . 
Well , says the Spaniard , there is something in it , I am persuaded , from my own experience . 
For , first , the enemy were too many and secondly , they did not keep together , but were divided into several parties , and were on shore in several places . 
The old man readily undertook it and stripping himself quite naked , as most of the savages were , away he went . 
But it was impossible to prevail , especially upon the Englishmen their curiosity was so importunate that they must run out and see the battle . 
And thus the Spaniards had the island again free to themselves , their fright was over , and they saw no savages for several years after . 
But some time after this they fell into such simple measures again as brought them into a great deal of trouble . 
But to come to the family part . 
They lived two years after this in perfect retirement , and had no more visits from the savages . 
, they were surprised with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore . 
, knocked the brute down . 
This fray set the whole family in an uproar , and more help coming in they took the three Englishmen prisoners . 
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up , and said they desired it might not be left to them . 
This hare brained carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was to be done . 
Thus they dismissed them the society , and turned them out to shift for themselves . 
, much about the place where I providentially landed in my first voyage , when I was driven out to sea in my foolish attempt to sail round the island . 
The project was not so preposterous , if they had gone no further . 
But they did nothing , and proposed nothing , but had either mischief in the design , or mischief in the event . 
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning , and in very humble terms desired to be admitted to speak with them . 
They had made a mast of a long pole , and a sail of four large goat skins dried , which they had sewed or laced together and away they went merrily together . 
The Spaniards called after them BON VOYAJO and no man ever thought of seeing them any more . 
The Spaniards were often saying to one another , and to the two honest Englishmen who remained behind , how quietly and comfortably they lived , now these three turbulent fellows were gone . 
The Spaniard , pausing a while , says to him , How do you mean you cannot tell who ? They are the savages , to be sure . 
No , no , says the Englishman , they are men in clothes , with arms . 
While they were debating thus , came up the three Englishmen , and standing without the wood , which was new planted , hallooed to them . 
They presently knew their voices , and so all the wonder ceased . 
The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing those prisoners but the others mistaking them , thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry away for their own eating . 
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home , their stomachs turned at this sight , and they did not know what to do . 
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the savage gentry that could be offered them , and what to do with them they knew not . 
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication with their prisoners but it was impossible to make them understand anything . 
Nothing they could say to them , or give them , or do for them , but was looked upon as going to murder them . 
to be expecting every moment to be dragged out and have their brains knocked out , and then to be eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty . 
All this appeared so just , that every one agreed to it without any difficulty . 
The diligent lived well and comfortably , and the slothful hard and beggarly and so , I believe , generally speaking , it is all over the world . 
Here , to their great surprise , they found three savages left behind , and lying fast asleep upon the ground . 
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight and perfectly at a loss what to do . 
The Spaniard governor , as it happened , was with them , and his advice was asked , but he professed he knew not what to do . 
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen and their justice and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages above . 
After some consultation they resolved upon this that they would lie still a while longer , till , if possible , these three men might be gone . 
Upon this , they went back again , and there lay the fellows fast asleep still , and so they resolved to awaken them , and take them prisoners and they did so . 
and afterward they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen . 
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined , and all their improvements destroyed , the rest all agreed to come and help them to rebuild , and assist them with needful supplies . 
, came and offered their help and assistance , and did , very friendly , work for several days to restore their habitation and make necessaries for them . 
And thus in a little time they were set upon their legs again . 
As they came on shore in the evening , and at the easternmost side of the island , our men had that night to consult and consider what to do . 
Our army was but small indeed but , that which was worse , they had not arms for all their number . 
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition , and then divided themselves into three bodies , and resolved to fall in among them all together . 
They had in each body eight persons , that is to say , twenty two men and the two women , who , by the way , fought desperately . 
They divided the firearms equally in each party , as well as the halberds and staves . 
They would have had the women kept back , but they said they were resolved to die with their husbands . 
However , there was no need to give any orders in this case for their own savages , who were their servants , despatched these poor creatures with their hatchets . 
The best was they had no weapons for though they had bows , they had no arrows left , nor any materials to make any nor had they any edge tool among them . 
It was some while before any of them could be taken but being weak and half starved , one of them was at last surprised and made a prisoner . 
They had taught them both to plant corn , make bread , breed tame goats , and milk them they wanted nothing but wives in order for them soon to become a nation . 
They were confined to a neck of land , surrounded with high rocks behind them , and lying plain towards the sea before them , on the south east corner of the island . 
They had land enough , and it was very good and fruitful about a mile and a half broad , and three or four miles in length . 
Thus , I think , I have given a full account of all that happened to them till my return , at least that was worth notice . 
One thing was very remarkable , viz . 
as also chairs , stools , beds , couches , being very ingenious at such work when they were once put in the way of it . 
He owned , indeed , that the savages had made the basket work for him . 
Such a piece of basket work , I believe , was never seen in the world , nor a house or tent so neatly contrived , much less so built . 
One thing , however , cannot be omitted , viz . 
I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances when they were among the savages . 
All these things made me more sensible of the relation of these poor men , and more affected with it . 
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship , we appointed the next day to dine all together and , indeed , we made a splendid feast . 
I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on shore and dress our dinner , and the old cook's mate we had on shore assisted . 
I cannot express what pleasure sat upon the countenances of all these poor men when they saw the care I had taken of them , and how well I had furnished them . 
And now the other two Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place and so the island was divided into three colonies , and no more viz . 
That his first intent was to have gone to Martinico , and that he went on board a ship bound thither at St . 
Thus he had been disappointed in five voyages all , as I may call it , in one voyage , besides what I shall have occasion to mention further of him . 
But I shall not make digression into other men's stories which have no relation to my own so I return to what concerns our affair in the island . 
And I know also , sir , what the Spaniard governor has told you , I mean of the agreement that he obliged them to make when they took those women , viz . 
I mean by a written contract signed by both man and woman , and by all the witnesses present , which all the laws of Europe would decree to be valid . 
This he said was an unaccountable neglect , and what God would certainly call them to account for , and perhaps at last take the work out of their hands . 
He spoke this very affectionately and warmly . 
I could hold no longer I took him in my arms and embraced him eagerly . 
How far , said I to him , have I been from understanding the most essential part of a Christian , viz . 
to love the interest of the Christian Church , and the good of other men's souls ! I scarce have known what belongs to the being a Christian . 
Oh , sir ! do not say so , replied he this thing is not your fault . 
But what can be done now ? said I you see I am going away . 
Upon this I said , I shall not only give you leave , but give you a thousand thanks for it . 
I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame . 
Why , really , says he , it is of the same nature . 
It is about your poor savages , who are , as I may say , your conquered subjects . 
I was now struck dumb indeed , and had not one word to say . 
I had here the spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me . 
I was confounded at his discourse , and knew not what answer to make him . 
He looked earnestly at me , seeing my confusion . 
Sir , says he , I shall be very sorry if what I have said gives you any offence . 
I was not so sensible of that as he was . 
To remove this difficulty , I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish , which I found he also understood , and he should serve him as an interpreter . 
So he was much better satisfied , and nothing could persuade him but he would stay and endeavour to convert them but Providence gave another very happy turn to all this . 
I come back now to the first part of his objections . 
When we came to the Englishmen , I sent for them all together , and after some account given them of what I had done for them , viz . 
This was just as I would have it . 
I then told him that my friend , the minister , was a Frenchman , and could not speak English , but I would act the clerk between them . 
He never so much as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant , which was , indeed , what I was afraid of . 
We then parted , and I went back to my clergyman , and Will Atkins went in to talk with his companions . 
I desired the French gentleman not to say anything to them till the business was thoroughly ripe and I told him what answer the men had given me . 
They told me it was very true what the gentleman said , that they were very indifferent Christians themselves , and that they had never talked to their wives about religion . 
Let him but repent himself , he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife . 
'tis past all that with me . 
I believe he is , said I. Immediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet , fall down on his knees , and lift up both his hands . 
We supposed he said something , but we could not hear him it was too far for that . 
My friend could bear it no longer , but cries out aloud , St . 
Paul ! behold he prayeth . 
To this he answered , with abundance of candour , thus Sir , I am a Catholic of the Roman Church , and a priest of the order of St . 
And there we left that part for we never disputed at all . 
I am entirely of your opinion but I must tell you that if you should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy , they would put you into the Inquisition . 
In what he said there seemed so much sincerity of repentance , that it painfully affected me . 
I could not but reflect that I , too , had shortened the life of a good , tender father by my bad conduct and obstinate self will . 
But having a little composed myself , I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins . 
R. C. No , no , it is not your wife has preached to you but when you were moving religious arguments to her , conscience has flung them back upon you . 
W. A. Ay , sir , with such force as is not to be resisted . 
R. C. Pray , Will , let us know what passed between you and your wife for I know something of it already . 
R. C. But tell us some of it how did you begin , Will ? For this has been an extraordinary case , that is certain . 
She has preached a sermon , indeed , if she has wrought this upon you . 
R. C. You talk like a civilian , Will . 
R. C. Well , what did she say to what you told her ? W. A. She said she liked it very well , as it was much better than in her country . 
R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was ? W. A. Ay , ay , there began our dialogue . 
I asked her if she would be married to me our way . 
N. B. This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife , which I took down in writing just after he told it me , was as follows WIFE . 
Appointed by your God ! Why , have you a God in your country ? W. A. Yes , my dear , God is in every country . 
No your God in my country my country have the great old Benamuckee God . 
No makee de earth no you God makee all earth no makee my country . 
Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not making her country . 
No laugh why laugh me ? This no ting to laugh . 
He was justly reproved by his wife , for she was more serious than he at first . 
W. A. That's true , indeed I will not laugh any more , my dear . 
He lives for ever in heaven . 
What , have you a great God in your country , you no know Him ? No say O to Him ? No do good ting for Him ? That no possible . 
W. A. It is true though , for all that , we live as if there was no God in heaven , or that He had no power on earth . 
But why God let you do so ? Why He no makee you good live ? W. A. It is all our own fault . 
Then you God no God me no think , believe He be such one , great much power , strong no makee kill you , though you make Him much angry . 
What ! He no hear you curse , swear , speak de great damn ? W. A. Yes , yes , He hears it all . 
Merciful ! What you call dat ? W. A. He is our Father and Maker , and He pities and spares us . 
So then He never makee kill , never angry when you do wicked then He no good Himself , or no great able . 
W. A. No , indeed , my sins are all presumptions upon His goodness and He would be infinitely just if He destroyed me , as He has done other men . 
Why He no makee you much good better ? you say He makee you . 
W. A. He made me as He made all the world it is I have deformed myself and abused His goodness , and made myself an abominable wretch . 
I wish you makee God know me . 
I no makee Him angry I no do bad wicked thing . 
Why , then , He know what I say to you now He know me wish to know Him . 
How shall me know who makee me ? W. A. Poor creature , He must teach thee I cannot teach thee . 
I will pray to Him to teach thee to know Him , and forgive me , that am unworthy to teach thee . 
This was the time when we saw him kneel down and hold up his hands . 
What say you O to Him for ? W. A. I prayed to Him to open your eyes and your understanding , that you may know Him , and be accepted by Him . 
Can He do that too ? W. A. Yes , He can He can do all things . 
But now He hear what you say ? W. A. Yes , He has bid us pray to Him , and promised to hear us . 
Here he embraced her with great affection , but with inexpressible grief that he had not a Bible . 
But how you makee me know that God teachee them to write that book ? W. A. By the same rule that we know Him to be God . 
This was the time that we saw him lift her up by the hand , and saw him kneel down by her , as above . 
I did not understand him at first but at length he explained himself , viz . 
that she ought to be baptized . 
I agreed with him in that part readily , and wished it to be done presently . 
He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin , but either Will Atkins did not know but it was French , or else did not take notice of it at that time . 
I think it was the most pleasant and agreeable day to me that ever I passed in my whole life . 
His discourse was very prettily delivered , considering his youth , and was the more agreeable to me , because he told me positively the match was not for himself . 
But still I was impatient to know who was the person to be married upon which he told me it was my Jack of all trades and his maid Susan . 
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match for , indeed , I thought it very suitable . 
He agreed presently in that , if they did their part . 
Here , said I to Atkins , I have brought you an assistant that perhaps you had not before . 
But the effect upon Will Atkins is really not to be expressed and there , we may be sure , was no delusion . 
Then I grew sick , and retched to vomit , but could not , for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up . 
I recommended my soul then to God , and then earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into the into the sea . 
Towards the morning I slept again , and when I awoke I fell into a violent passion of crying , and after that had a second fit of violent hunger . 
I got up ravenous , and in a most dreadful condition and once or twice I was going to bite my own arm . 
I lifted myself up a little , for I had not strength to rise , but found she was not dead , though she was able to give very little signs of life . 
This was her own relation , and is such a distinct account of starving to death , as , I confess , I never met with , and was exceeding instructive to me . 
I now return to my disposition of things among the people . 
I reserved the sloop , therefore , and the guns , for their service another way , as I shall observe in its place . 
I could not imagine what he meant by an army , and thwarted him a little hastily . 
We had a prisoner , indeed , but the creature was so sullen that he would neither cat nor speak , and we all fancied he would starve himself to death . 
, and then he began to he more tractable nor did I ever design they should drown him . 
He told us , however , some time after , when we had taught him to speak a little English , that they were going with their kings to fight a great battle . 
, and that they all joined to go against two nation . 
We asked him what made them come up to us ? He said , To makee te great wonder look . 
And now I name the poor fellow once more , I must take my last leave of him . 
So ended the life of the most grateful , faithful , honest , and most affectionate servant that ever man had . 
We kept on S. by E. , in sight of the shore four days , when we made Cape St . 
Augustine , and in three days came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints , the old place of my deliverance , from whence came both my good and evil fate . 
He was a very generous , open hearted man , although he began , like me , with little at first . 
For my Spaniards , according to my promise , I engaged three Brazil women to go , and recommended it to them to marry them , and use them kindly . 
I found letters at London from them all , by way of Lisbon , when I came back to England . 
Jago , or his guardian angel , though so common with the rest of them . 
A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon , my pious priest asked me leave to go thither being still , as he observed , bound never to finish any voyage he began . 
How happy it had been for me if I had gone with him . 
This was none of my business , neither did I meddle with it my nephew , the captain , and the supercargo adjusting all those things between them as they thought fit . 
We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh water , but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel . 
I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of places , journals of our voyage , variations of the compass , latitudes , trade winds , c . 
it is enough to name the ports and places which we touched at , and what occurred to us upon our passages from one to another . 
They treated us very civilly and for some trifles which we gave them , such as knives , scissors , c . 
We landed without any noise , and divided our men into two bodies , whereof the boatswain commanded one and I the other . 
We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we landed and we marched up , one body at a distance from another , to the place . 
At first we could see nothing , it being very dark till by and by our boatswain , who led the first party , stumbled and fell over a dead body . 
This made them halt a while for knowing by the circumstances that they were at the place where the Indians had stood , they waited for my coming up there . 
Come , Jack , says one of the men , will you go with me ? I'll go for one . 
Jack said he would and then another and , in a word , they all left me but one , whom I persuaded to stay , and a boy left in the boat . 
They told me , like seamen , they would warrant it they would come off again , and they would take care , c . 
Bolder fellows , and better provided , never went about any wicked work in the world . 
If the noise of the guns was surprising to us before , the cries of the poor people were now quite of another nature , and filled us with horror . 
I must confess I was never at the sacking a city , or at the taking a town by storm . 
However , we went on , and at length came to the town , though there was no entering the streets of it for the fire . 
But this was not all we saw the fire increase forward , and the cry went on just as the fire went on so that we were in the utmost confusion . 
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two men , and with these walked back to the boat . 
As for the rest of the men , they were not subject to me at all , and they knew it well enough so they took no notice of my dislike . 
The next day we set sail , so we never heard any more of it . 
, it would do him no service to bring him away so they only took him down from the tree , where he was hanging by one hand . 
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on board . 
He made but little reply to me at that time , and I thought the affair had been over . 
But I might have spared this intelligence , for before I had spoken to him on shore the matter was effected on board . 
This was a hard article upon him , who knew his obligation to me , and did not know how I might take it . 
However , he would go on shore and talk with me , and invited the boatswain to go with him , and perhaps they might accommodate the matter with me . 
But they all rejected the proposal , and said they would have nothing to do with me any more and if I came on board they would all go on shore . 
Well , said the captain , if you are all of this mind , let me go on shore and talk with him . 
So away he came to me with this account , a little after the message had been brought to me from the coxswain . 
I then took a good lodging in the house of an Englishwoman , where several merchants lodged , some French , two Italians , or rather Jews , and one Englishman . 
Here I stayed above nine months , considering what course to take . 
If you will put one thousand pounds to my one thousand pounds , we will hire a ship here , the first we can get to our minds . 
In my loose , unhinged circumstances , I was the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade , or indeed anything else . 
After some time we got a mate , a boatswain , and a gunner , English a Dutch carpenter , and three foremast men . 
With these we found we could do well enough , having Indian seamen , such as they were , to make up . 
Then we went up to Saskan , were eight months out , and on our return to Bengal I was very well satisfied with my adventure . 
On the other hand , mine was the notion of a mad , rambling boy , that never cares to see a thing twice over . 
But this was not all I had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home , and yet an unsettled resolution which way to go . 
We were not long in preparing for this voyage the chief difficulty was in bringing me to come into it . 
This came to my ears before my new partner heard of it , and I had a great mind to buy it so I went to him and told him of it . 
He considered a while , for he was no rash man neither and at last replied , She is a little too big however , we will have her . 
Accordingly , we bought the ship , and agreeing with the master , we paid for her , and took possession . 
We picked up some more English sailors here after this , and some Dutch , and now we resolved on a second voyage to the south east for cloves , c . 
that is to say , among the Philippine and Malacca isles . 
This river lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam . 
Sir , says he , addressing me , you are a stranger to me , and I to you but I have something to tell you that very nearly concerns you . 
I am moved by the imminent danger you are in , and , for aught I see , you have no knowledge of it . 
I thought , sir , added he , I should have met with a better reception than this for doing you a piece of service of such importance . 
Nay , sir , says he , do not talk of being upon your guard the best defence is to be out of danger . 
I consented to this readily , and went immediately on board , and the two men with me . 
Very well , said I , then it is apparent there is something in it . 
Then I asked the captain what way he thought best for us to manage a fight with them for resist them I was resolved we would , and that to the last drop . 
Notwithstanding this , they came on till they were near enough to call to them with a speaking trumpet , bidding them keep off at their peril . 
Our men in the pinnace followed their orders , and took up three men , one of whom was just drowning , and it was a good while before we could recover him . 
I also asked the English sailor's opinion , who said he was of my mind , and that we certainly should be taken . 
This was approved of as the best method for our security , and accordingly we steered away NNE . 
, keeping above fifty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward . 
This made me very anxious to make an escape , though which way to do it I knew not , or what port or place we could go to . 
Upon this , they took it for granted we all belonged to them , and away they came directly upon our men , as if it had been in a line of battle . 
The next day , having finished our work within board , and finding our ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks , we set sail . 
When we were thus got to sea , we kept on NE . 
that the Christian religion always civilises the people , and reforms their manners , where it is received , whether it works saving effects upon them or no . 
and so we would return by the same course we came . 
Why , says he , you are no pirates what need you fear ? They will not meddle with peaceable merchants , sure . 
These words put me into the greatest disorder and confusion imaginable nor was it possible for me to conceal it so , but the old man easily perceived it . 
I consulted my partner again in this exigency , and he was as much at a loss as I was . 
The opium and other goods we had on board would make it appear the ship had been at Bengal . 
These , and many other particular circumstances , might have made it evident to the understanding of any commander , whose hands we might fall into , that we were no pirates . 
One of these was a Frenchman , whom they called Father Simon another was a Portuguese and a third a Genoese . 
Father Simon was courteous , and very agreeable company but the other two were more reserved , seemed rigid and austere , and applied seriously to the work they came about , viz . 
to talk with and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants wherever they had opportunity . 
Dining with Father Simon one day , and being very merry together , I showed some little inclination to go with him and he pressed me and my partner very hard to consent . 
He said No , he could not do that , for then he could not have the return of his cargo but he would discharge us in Japan , at the ship's return . 
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here but , to divert ourselves , we took two or three journeys into the country . 
Nor is there a fortified town in China that could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks of an European army . 
They have firearms , it is true , but they are awkward and uncertain in their going off and their powder has but little strength . 
I was now , as near as I can compute , in the heart of China , about thirty degrees north of the line , for we were returned from Nankin . 
I had indeed a mind to see the city of Pekin , which I had heard so much of , and Father Simon importuned me daily to do it . 
It was a kind of garden , but he was easy to be seen and we were given to understand that the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased . 
He sat lolling back in a great elbow chair , being a heavy corpulent man , and had his meat brought him by two women slaves . 
Leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our looking at him , as if we admired his idle pomp , we pursued our journey . 
Four or five servants more attended at a distance , who we supposed were to eat of the same after their master . 
, that we could scarce see anything but their feet and their heads as they went along . 
The place was not deep , but it wetted me all over . 
At length we arrived at Pekin . 
Indeed , this old man was most useful to us everywhere for we had not been above a week at Pekin , when he came laughing . 
Ah , Seignior Inglese , says he , I have something to tell will make your heart glad . 
My heart glad , says I what can that be ? I don't know anything in this country can either give me joy or grief to any great degree . 
Yes , yes , said the old man , in broken English , make you glad , me sorry . 
Having settled this between ourselves , we called him to let him know what we had resolved . 
That as we had resolved to go to Europe with the caravan , we were very willing he should go with us and that we called him to know his mind . 
He shook his head and said it was a long journey , and that he had no PECUNE to carry him thither , or to subsist himself when he came there . 
, either in Muscovy or England , as he would choose , at our own charge , except only the carriage of his goods . 
He received the proposal like a man transported , and told us he would go with us over all the whole world and so we all prepared for our journey . 
CHAPTER XIV ATTACKED BY TARTARS IT was the beginning of February , new style , when we set out from Pekin . 
Here , too , they constituted the journey , as they call it , viz . 
I was very importunate to know what it was at last he told me it was a gentleman's house built with China ware . 
Well , says I , such a thing may be how big is it ? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel ? If we can we will buy it . 
Upon a camel ! says the old pilot , holding up both his hands why , there is a family of thirty people lives in it . 
They told me , in particular , of one workman that made a ship with all its tackle and masts and sails in earthenware , big enough to carry fifty men . 
I promised to be more orderly and , indeed , I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all together were absolutely necessary for our common safety . 
In colours ! said I what do you mean by that ? Why , you speak what looks white this way and black that way gay one way and dull another . 
You tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars you tell me by that it is good for nothing but to keep out Tartars . 
I understand you , Seignior Inglese , I understand you but Seignior Chinese understood you his own way . 
We told him we were ready to follow him so he rode directly towards them . 
As soon as we came up to them we fired our pistols in their faces and then drew but they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable . 
Thus ended our fight but we had this misfortune attending it , that all our mutton we had in chase got away . 
Once , however , a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us . 
We saw no more arrows or Tartars that time . 
I walked it on foot , with my old pilot and a Chinese , being very desirous of a little variety . 
By this time I was a little recovered . 
The old man , seeing me on my feet , came running to me , and joyfully embraced me , being afraid before that I had been killed . 
We made no great gain , however , by this victory , for we lost a camel and gained a horse . 
I paid for the lost camel , and sent for another but I did not go to fetch it myself I had had enough of that . 
The city of Naum , which we were approaching , is a frontier of the Chinese empire , and is fortified in their fashion . 
This was very bad news to travellers however , it was carefully done of the governor , and we were very glad to hear we should have a guard . 
They will fight like brave fellows in brave company but without this they will every man turn his back . 
At last the Tartars came on , and an innumerable company they were how many we could not tell , but ten thousand , we thought , at the least . 
I think the first town or fortress , whichever it may he called , that belonged to the Czar , was called Arguna , being on the west side of the river Arguna . 
Not a town or city we passed through but had their pagodas , their idols , and their temples , and ignorant people worshipping even the works of their own hands . 
Well , says I , but still it is better than paganism , and worshipping of devils . 
And so , indeed , we found it . 
In a village near the last of these places I had the curiosity to go and see their way of living , which is most brutish and unsufferable . 
So we agreed to go , only we three and my man servant , and resolved to put it in execution the following night about midnight , with all possible secrecy . 
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night , and found that the people had not the least suspicion of danger attending their idol . 
The night was cloudy yet the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did before . 
They appeared , in short , frightened to death , at least so as to sit trembling and stupid , and not able to speak either , for the smoke . 
We quickly took them from the hut , where the smoke soon drove us out , bound them as we had done the other , and all without any noise . 
Then we carried them all together to the idol when we came there , we fell to work with him . 
So we resolved to stay till the forage has burned down too , and then came away and left them . 
The people of Nertsinkay were at first in a great consternation , for they said the Tartars were already no less than thirty thousand strong . 
But upon the second day's march from Plothus , by the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance , it was plain we were pursued . 
The third day they had either found their mistake , or had intelligence of us , and came pouring in upon us towards dusk . 
In this posture we encamped for the night but the enemy was upon us before we had finished . 
This was a city four or five days' journey at least to the right , and rather behind us . 
In less than three hours they were entirely out of our sight , and we never heard any more of them , nor whether they went to Sibeilka or no . 
So we passed away safely on to Jarawena , where there was a Russian garrison , and there we rested five days . 
From this city we had a frightful desert , which held us twenty three days' march . 
If the Tartars had their Cham Chi Thaungu for a whole village or country , these had idols in every hut and every cave . 
All the country between the river Oby and the river Janezay is as entirely pagan , and the people as barbarous , as the remotest of the Tartars . 
From this river to the Oby we crossed a wild uncultivated country , barren of people and good management , otherwise it is in itself a pleasant , fruitful , and agreeable country . 
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs till I came to Tobolski , the capital city of Siberia , where I continued some time on the following account . 
But I had no occasion to urge a winter journey of this kind . 
plenty of provisions , such as the country afforded , a warm house , with fuel enough , and excellent company . 
Here was the famous Prince Galitzin , the old German Robostiski , and several other persons of note , and some ladies . 
The Russian grandee looked a little surprised , and , fixing his eyes steadily upon me , began to wonder what I meant . 
It is true , within doors we were warm , the houses being close , the walls thick , the windows small , and the glass all double . 
The hunters , who venture abroad all weathers , frequently brought us in fine venison , and sometimes bear's flesh , but we did not much care for the last . 
We had a good stock of tea , with which we treated our friends , and we lived cheerfully and well , all things considered . 
Therefore I made no haste to be gone , as others did in a word , I saw a great many people , nay , all the travellers , go away before me . 
Upon this , I took an occasion one evening to tell him my thoughts . 
About two hours after I heard somebody at or near the door of my room , and I was going to open the door , but he had opened it and come in . 
My dear friend , says he , you had almost overset me , but I am recovered . 
Do not take it ill that I do not close with your offer . 
My lord , said I , I hope you are fully satisfied that you do not resist the call of Heaven . 
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce , and make professions to him of my having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve him . 
I made no hesitation , but told him I would do it . 
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place . 
We slept little , but spent the most part of the night in strengthening our situation , and barricading the entrances into the wood , and keeping a strict watch . 
Here we found a Russian village , named Kermazinskoy , where we rested , and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that day . 
We then set sail from Archangel the th of August , the same year and , after no extraordinary bad voyage , arrived safe in the Elbe the th of September . 
Here my partner and I found a very good sale for our goods , as well those of China as the sables , c . 
, of Siberia and , dividing the produce , my share amounted to pounds , s d . 
, including about six hundred pounds' worth of diamonds , which I purchased at Bengal . 
He did not part without testimonials of gratitude for the service I had done him , and for my kindness to the prince , his father . 
