Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
What became of my second brother I never knew , any more than my father or mother knew what became of me . 
Being the third son of the family and not bred to any trade , my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts . 
My father , a wise and grave man , gave me serious and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design . 
He called me one morning into his chamber , where he was confined by the gout , and expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject . 
He told me I might judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing viz . 
Never any young adventurer's misfortunes , I believe , began sooner , or continued longer than mine . 
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads the wind having been contrary and the weather calm , we had made but little way since the storm . 
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor , and here we lay , the wind continuing contrary viz . 
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed and now I began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves . 
Two more ships , being driven from their anchors , were run out of the Roads to sea , at all adventures , and that with not a mast standing . 
But the worst was not come yet the storm continued with such fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse . 
We had a good ship , but she was deep laden , and wallowed in the sea , so that the seamen every now and then cried out she would founder . 
It was my advantage in one respect , that I did not know what they meant by FOUNDER till I inquired . 
Then all hands were called to the pump . 
At that word , my heart , as I thought , died within me and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed where I sat , into the cabin . 
I , who knew nothing what they meant , thought the ship had broken , or some dreadful thing happened . 
In a word , I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon . 
Perhaps this has all befallen us on your account , like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish . 
We parted soon after for I made him little answer , and I saw him no more which way he went I knew not . 
In this state of life , however , I remained some time , uncertain what measures to take , and what course of life to lead . 
I first got acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea and who , having had very good success there , was resolved to go again . 
However , we had not a man touched , all our men keeping close . 
He prepared to attack us again , and we to defend ourselves . 
But laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter , he entered sixty men upon our decks , who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging . 
We plied them with small shot , half pikes , powder chests , and such like , and cleared our deck of them twice . 
After about two years , an odd circumstance presented itself , which put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my head . 
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him , he never went without me . 
He said that was true so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit , and three jars of fresh water , into the boat . 
for ourselves , for I know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship . 
He rose immediately , for he swam like a cork , and called to me , begged to be taken in , told me he would go all over the world with me . 
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me , and have drowned the boy , but there was no venturing to trust him . 
I neither saw , nor desired to see any people the principal thing I wanted was fresh water . 
Well , Xury , said I , then I won't but it may be that we may see men by day , who will be as bad to us as those lions . 
Then we give them the shoot gun , says Xury , laughing , make them run wey . 
Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves . 
Xury said , if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars , he would find if there was any water , and bring some to me . 
Says he , If wild mans come , they eat me , you go wey . 
Well , Xury , said I , we will both go and if the wild mans come , we will kill them , they shall eat neither of us . 
Xury , says I , you shall on shore and kill him . 
Xury , looked frighted , and said , Me kill ! he eat me at one mouth ! one mouthful he meant . 
I loaded with five smaller bullets . 
Then Xury took heart , and would have me let him go on shore . 
However , Xury said he would have some of him so he comes on board , and asked me to give him the hatchet . 
For what , Xury ? said I. Me cut off his head , said he . 
However , Xury could not cut off his head , but he cut off a foot , and brought it with him , and it was a monstrous great one . 
So Xury and I went to work with him but Xury was much the better workman at it , for I knew very ill how to do it . 
I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them but Xury was my better counsellor , and said to me , No go , no go . 
However , I hauled in nearer the shore that I might talk to them , and I found they ran along the shore by me a good way . 
The women were as naked as the men . 
Upon these signals they very kindly brought to , and lay by for me and in about three hours time I came up with them . 
, I will carry you thither in charity , and those things will help to buy your subsistence there , and your passage home again . 
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils , and I arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos , or All Saints' Bay , in about twenty two days after . 
And now I was once more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of life and what to do next with myself I was to consider . 
I had not been long here before I was recommended to the house of a good honest man like himself , who had an INGENIO , as they call it . 
I had a neighbour , a Portuguese , of Lisbon , but born of English parents , whose name was Wells , and in much such circumstances as I was . 
I call him my neighbour , because his plantation lay next to mine , and we went on very sociably together . 
My stock was but low , as well as his and we rather planted for food than anything else , for about two years . 
But we both wanted help and now I found , more than before , I had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury . 
But , alas ! for me to do wrong that never did right , was no great wonder . 
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost regret . 
, he had taken care to have all sorts of tools , ironwork , and utensils necessary for my plantation , and which were of great use to me . 
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our greatest adversity , so it was with me . 
To come , then , by the just degrees to the particulars of this part of my story . 
, but negroes , for the service of the Brazils , in great numbers . 
In short , I took all possible caution to preserve my effects and to keep up my plantation . 
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden , carried six guns and fourteen men , besides the master , his boy , and myself . 
We had very good weather , only excessively hot , all the way upon our own coast , till we came to the height of Cape St . 
In this distress we had , besides the terror of the storm , one of our men die of the calenture , and one man and the boy washed overboard . 
With this design we changed our course , and steered away N. W. by W. , in order to reach some of our English islands , where I hoped for relief . 
It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances . 
We knew nothing where we were , or upon what land it was we were driven whether an island or the main , whether inhabited or not inhabited . 
We had another boat on board , but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing . 
However , there was no time to debate , for we fancied that the ship would break in pieces every minute , and some told us she was actually broken already . 
And now our case was very dismal indeed for we all saw plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could not live , and that we should be inevitably drowned . 
What the shore was , whether rock or sand , whether steep or shoal , we knew not . 
But there was nothing like this appeared but as we made nearer and nearer the shore , the land looked more frightful than the sea . 
For sudden joys , like griefs , confound at first . 
In a word , I had nothing about me but a knife , a tobacco pipe , and a little tobacco in a box . 
This was all my provisions and this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind , that for a while I ran about like a madman . 
A little after noon I found the sea very calm , and the tide ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship . 
Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me . 
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had and this extremity roused my application . 
But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have done upon another occasion . 
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight . 
My next care was what to load it with , and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea but I was not long considering this . 
, and a little remainder of European corn , which had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea with us , but the fowls were killed . 
There had been some barley and wheat together but , to my great disappointment , I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all . 
These I stowed by themselves , there being no need to put them into the chest , nor any room for them . 
As for my breeches , which were only linen , and open kneed , I swam on board in them and my stockings . 
I got it down to my raft , whole as it was , without losing time to look into it , for I knew in general what it contained . 
My next care was for some ammunition and arms . 
There were two very good fowling pieces in the great cabin , and two pistols . 
These I secured first , with some powder horns and a small bag of shot , and two old rusty swords . 
Those two I got to my raft with the arms . 
As I imagined , so it was . 
My next work was to view the country , and seek a proper place for my habitation , and where to stow my goods to secure them from whatever might happen . 
Where I was , I yet knew not whether on the continent or on an island whether inhabited or not inhabited whether in danger of wild beasts or not . 
Yet I saw abundance of fowls , but knew not their kinds neither when I killed them could I tell what was fit for food , and what not . 
At my coming back , I shot at a great bird which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood . 
I believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world . 
Its flesh was carrion , and fit for nothing . 
Contented with this discovery , I came back to my raft , and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore , which took me up the rest of that day . 
She sat very composed and unconcerned , and looked full in my face , as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me . 
for more but I thanked her , and could spare no more so she marched off . 
The next day I made another voyage , and now , having plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out , I began with the cables . 
After this , I went every day on board , and brought away what I could get . 
But I had got home to my little tent , where I lay , with all my wealth about me , very secure . 
On the flat of the green , just before this hollow place , I resolved to pitch my tent . 
The two rows did not stand above six inches from one another . 
This cost me a great deal of time and labour , especially to cut the piles in the woods , bring them to the place , and drive them into the earth . 
It cost me much labour and many days before all these things were brought to perfection and therefore I must go back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts . 
I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger , though , had the powder took fire , I should never have known who had hurt me . 
These two supplied me with flesh a great while , for I ate sparingly , and saved my provisions , my bread especially , as much as possibly I could . 
All evils are to be considered with the good that is in them , and with what worse attends them . 
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale , or surrounded my habitation . 
Good But I am alive and not drowned , as all my ship's company were . 
Evil I am singled out and separated , as it were , from all the world , to be miserable . 
Evil I am divided from mankind a solitaire one banished from human society . 
Good But I am not starved , and perishing on a barren place , affording no sustenance . 
Evil I have no clothes to cover me . 
Good But I am in a hot climate , where , if I had clothes , I could hardly wear them . 
Evil I am without any defence , or means to resist any violence of man or beast . 
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale , and into the cave which I had made behind me . 
This gave me not only egress and regress , as it was a back way to my tent and to my storehouse , but gave me room to store my goods . 
as long as it lasted for having no more ink , I was forced to leave it off . 
CHAPTER V BUILDS A HOUSE THE JOURNAL SEPTEMBER , . 
All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at the dismal circumstances I was brought to viz . 
At the approach of night I slept in a tree , for fear of wild creatures but slept soundly , though it rained all night . 
This day also it continued raining , though with no wind at all . 
FROM THE ST OF OCTOBER TO THE TH . 
All these days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship , which I brought on shore every tide of flood upon rafts . 
Much rain also in the days , though with some intervals of fair weather but it seems this was the rainy season . 
I spent this day in covering and securing the goods which I had saved , that the rain might not spoil them . 
From the th to the th I worked very hard in carrying all my goods to my new habitation , though some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard . 
I set up my tent under a rock , and lay there for the first night making it as large as I could , with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon . 
I went out with my gun , and killed two fowls like ducks , which were very good food . 
In the afternoon went to work to make me a table . 
This morning I began to order my times of work , of going out with my gun , time of sleep , and time of diversion viz . 
After my morning walk I went to work with my table again , and finished it , though not to my liking nor was it long before I learned to mend it . 
Now it began to be settled fair weather . 
I soon neglected my keeping Sundays for , omitting my mark for them on my post , I forgot which was which . 
As soon as it was over , I resolved to separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as possible , that it might not be in danger . 
On one of these three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat , but I knew not what to call it . 
This day I began to dig behind my tent into the rock , to make room for my further conveniency . 
Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work viz . 
a pickaxe , a shovel , and a wheelbarrow or basket so I desisted from my work , and began to consider how to supply that want , and make me some tools . 
I was still deficient , for I wanted a basket or a wheelbarrow . 
During all this time I worked to make this room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or magazine , a kitchen , a dining room , and a cellar . 
Much rain all night and all day . 
No rain , and the earth much cooler than before , and pleasanter . 
This was the first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures , that I might have food when my powder and shot was all spent . 
Very hot still but I went abroad early and late with my gun , and lay still in the middle of the day . 
I began my fence or wall which , being still jealous of my being attacked by somebody , I resolved to make very thick and strong . 
, I shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of my fortification , under the rock . 
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts on this occasion . 
But to return to my Journal . 
I finished the ladder so I went up the ladder to the top , and then pulled it up after me , and let it down in the inside . 
This was a complete enclosure to me for within I had room enough , and nothing could come at me from without , unless it could first mount my wall . 
The very next day after this wall was finished I had almost had all my labour overthrown at once , and myself killed . 
I perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island . 
All this while I had not the least serious religious thought nothing but the common Lord have mercy upon me ! and when it was over that went away too . 
While I sat thus , I found the air overcast and grow cloudy , as if it would rain . 
This held about three hours , and then began to abate and in two hours more it was quite calm , and began to rain very hard . 
With this thought my spirits began to revive and the rain also helping to persuade me , I went in and sat down in my tent . 
This violent rain forced me to a new work viz . 
to cut a hole through my new fortification , like a sink , to let the water go out , which would else have flooded my cave . 
After I had been in my cave for some time , and found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow , I began to be more composed . 
So with this resolution I composed myself for a time , and resolved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables , c . 
The next morning I begin to consider of means to put this resolve into execution but I was at a great loss about my tools . 
This cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics , or a judge upon the life and death of a man . 
At length I contrived a wheel with a string , to turn it with my foot , that I might have both my hands at liberty . 
This machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection . 
These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools , my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well . 
CHAPTER VI ILL AND CONSCIENCE STRICKEN WHEN I came down to the ship I found it strangely removed . 
Worked on the wreck got several iron bolts out of her and other pieces of ironwork . 
Worked very hard , and came home very much tired , and had thoughts of giving it over . 
Went to the wreck , and carried an iron crow to wrench up the deck , which lay now quite clear of the water or sand . 
I wrenched open two planks , and brought them on shore also with the tide . 
I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day . 
I felt also a roll of English lead , and could stir it , but it was too heavy to remove . 
Went every day to the wreck and got a great many pieces of timber , and boards , or plank , and two or three hundredweight of iron . 
Going down to the seaside , I found a large tortoise or turtle . 
I spent in cooking the turtle . 
Rained all day , and I stayed within . 
I thought at this time the rain felt cold , and I was something chilly which I knew was not usual in that latitude . 
Very ill , and shivering , as if the weather had been cold . 
No rest all night violent pains in my head , and feverish . 
Very ill frighted almost to death with the apprehensions of my sad condition to be sick , and no help . 
Prayed to God , for the first time since the storm off Hull , but scarce knew what I said , or why , my thoughts being all confused . 
A little better but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness . 
Very bad again cold and shivering , and then a violent headache . 
An ague very violent the fit held me seven hours cold fit and hot , with faint sweats after it . 
Better and having no victuals to eat , took my gun , but found myself very weak . 
The ague again so violent that I lay a bed all day , and neither ate nor drank . 
I was ready to perish for thirst but so weak , I had not strength to stand up , or to get myself any water to drink . 
When I awoke , I found myself much refreshed , but weak , and exceeding thirsty . 
However , as I had no water in my habitation , I was forced to lie till morning , and went to sleep again . 
He was all over as bright as a flame , so that I could but just bear to look towards him his countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful , impossible for words to describe . 
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision . 
I mean , that even while it was a dream , I even dreamed of those horrors . 
Nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that remained upon my mind when I awaked , and found it was but a dream . 
I had , alas ! no divine knowledge . 
When , again , I was shipwrecked , ruined , and in danger of drowning on this island , I was as far from remorse , or looking on it as a judgment . 
I only said to myself often , that I was an unfortunate dog , and born to be always miserable . 
In this interval the good advice of my father came to my mind , and presently his prediction , which I mentioned at the beginning of this story viz . 
Now , said I , aloud , my dear father's words are come to pass God's justice has overtaken me , and I have none to help or hear me . 
I left them to mourn over my folly , and now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it . 
Then I cried out , Lord , be my help , for I am in great distress . 
This was the first prayer , if I may call it so , that I had made for many years . 
But to return to my Journal . 
Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh and broiled it on the coals , but could eat very little . 
And who is that ? Then it followed most naturally , it is God that has made all . 
If so , nothing can happen in the great circuit of His works , either without His knowledge or appointment . 
I went , directed by Heaven no doubt for in this chest I found a cure both for soul and body . 
I say , I took it out , and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table . 
Then I took some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum , and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down and lastly . 
The th was my well day , of course , and I went abroad with my gun , but did not care to travel too far . 
I renewed the medicine all the three ways and dosed myself with it as at first , and doubled the quantity which I drank . 
I missed the fit for good and all , though I did not recover my full strength for some weeks after . 
It was not long after I set seriously to this work till I found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life . 
The impression of my dream revived and the words , All these things have not brought thee to repentance , ran seriously through my thoughts . 
As for my solitary life , it was nothing . 
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it or think of it it was all of no consideration in comparison to this . 
But , leaving this part , I return to my Journal . 
CHAPTER VII AGRICULTURAL EXPERIENCE I HAD now been in this unhappy island above ten months . 
All possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me and I firmly believe that no human shape had ever set foot upon that place . 
It was on the th of July that I began to take a more particular survey of the island itself . 
I went up the creek first , where , as I hinted , I brought my rafts on shore . 
There were divers other plants , which I had no notion of or understanding about , that might , perhaps , have virtues of their own , which I could not find out . 
I searched for the cassava root , which the Indians , in all that climate , make their bread of , but I could find none . 
I saw large plants of aloes , but did not understand them . 
I saw several sugar canes , but wild , and , for want of cultivation , imperfect . 
In this part I found different fruits , and particularly I found melons upon the ground , in great abundance , and grapes upon the trees . 
The vines had spread , indeed , over the trees , and the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime , very ripe and rich . 
I saw here abundance of cocoa trees , orange , and lemon , and citron trees but all wild , and very few bearing any fruit , at least not then . 
By this I concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts , which had done this but what they were I knew not . 
About the beginning of August , as I said , I had finished my bower , and began to enjoy myself . 
From the th of August to the th , incessant rain , so that I could not stir , and was now very careful not to be much wet . 
I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my landing . 
I cast up the notches on my post , and found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty five days . 
While this corn was growing I made a little discovery , which was of use to me afterwards . 
I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from . 
The half of April , the whole of May , June , and July , and the half of August dry , the sun being then to the north of the line . 
The half of August , the whole of September , and the half of October rainy , the sun being then come back . 
The half of October , the whole of November , December , and January , and the half of February dry , the sun being then to the south of the line . 
The rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter as the winds happened to blow , but this was the general observation I made . 
Having mastered this difficulty , and employed a world of time about it , I bestirred myself to see , if possible , how to supply two wants . 
to make broth , and stew a bit of meat by itself . 
With these considerations , I walked very leisurely forward . 
I saw abundance of parrots , and fain I would have caught one , if possible , to have kept it to be tame , and taught it to speak to me . 
But the accident that followed , though it be a trifle , will be very diverting in its place . 
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey . 
and foxes but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met with , nor could I satisfy myself to eat them , though I killed several . 
But I had no need to be venturous , for I had no want of food , and of that which was very good too , especially these three sorts , viz . 
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old hutch , and lie down in my hammock bed . 
In the midst of the greatest composure of my mind , this would break out upon me like a storm , and make me wring my hands and weep like a child . 
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts I daily read the word of God , and applied all the comforts of it to my present state . 
One morning , being very sad , I opened the Bible upon these words , I will never , never leave thee , nor forsake thee . 
I know not what it was , but something shocked my mind at that thought , and I durst not speak the words . 
My case was this it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down , because my board was to be a broad one . 
This tree I was three days in cutting down , and two more cutting off the boughs , and reducing it to a log or piece of timber . 
Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of work but labour and patience carried me through that , and many other things . 
I only observe this in particular , to show the reason why so much of my time went away with so little work viz . 
that what might be a little to be done with help and tools , was a vast labour and required a prodigious time to do alone , and by hand . 
But notwithstanding this , with patience and labour I got through everything that my circumstances made necessary to me to do , as will appear by what follows . 
I was now , in the months of November and December , expecting my crop of barley and rice . 
I immediately let fly among them , for I always had my gun with me . 
I had no sooner shot , but there rose up a little cloud of fowls , which I had not seen at all , from among the corn itself . 
This was what I wished for so I took them up , and served them as we serve notorious thieves in England hanged them in chains , for a terror to of them . 
This I was very glad of , you may be sure , and about the latter end of December , which was our second harvest of the year , I reaped my corn . 
However , this was a great encouragement to me , and I foresaw that , in time , it would please God to supply me with bread . 
It might be truly said , that now I worked for my bread . 
First , I had no plough to turn up the earth no spade or shovel to dig it . 
However , this I bore with , and was content to work it out with patience , and bear with the badness of the performance . 
All this , as I said , made everything laborious and tedious to me but that there was no help for . 
CHAPTER IX A BOAT BUT first I was to prepare more land , for I had now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground . 
This work did not take me up less than three months , because a great part of that time was the wet season , when I could not go abroad . 
in about two months' labour . 
But all this would not answer my end , which was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid , and bear the fire , which none of these could do . 
I was agreeably surprised to see it , and said to myself , that certainly they might be made to burn whole , if they would burn broken . 
This set me to study how to order my fire , so as to make it burn some pots . 
pipkins , and two other earthen pots , as hard burnt as could be desired , and one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand . 
And here I was at a full stop for many months nor did I really know what to do . 
The baking part was the next thing to be considered , and how I should make bread when I came to have corn for first , I had no yeast . 
As to that part , there was no supplying the want , so I did not concern myself much about it . 
But for an oven I was indeed in great pain . 
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did who had any of his senses awake . 
This was a most preposterous method but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed , and to work I went . 
When I had gone through this work I was extremely delighted with it . 
The boat was really much bigger than ever I saw a canoe or periagua , that was made of one tree , in my life . 
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me though they cost me infinite labour too . 
It lay about one hundred yards from the water , and not more but the first inconvenience was , it was up hill towards the creek . 
but when this was worked through , and this difficulty managed , it was still much the same , for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat . 
I entertained different notions of things . 
I had no room for desire , except it was of things which I had not , and they were but trifles , though , indeed , of great use to me . 
I had , as I hinted before , a parcel of money , as well gold as silver , about thirty six pounds sterling . 
I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than it was at first , and much easier to my mind , as well as to my body . 
I frequently sat down to meat with thankfulness , and admired the hand of God's providence , which had thus spread my table in the wilderness . 
All our discontents about what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have . 
I had lived a dreadful life , perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of God . 
I had now been here so long that many things which I had brought on shore for my help were either quite gone , or very much wasted and near spent . 
I must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made for if I was a bad carpenter , I was a worse tailor . 
I lay here , however , two days , because the wind blowing pretty fresh at ESE . 
Now I looked back upon my desolate , solitary island as the most pleasant place in the world and all the happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there again . 
I stretched out my hands to it , with eager wishes O happy desert ! said I , I shall never see thee more . 
into the wide ocean , almost two leagues , and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again . 
This cheered my heart a little , and especially when , in about half an hour more , it blew a pretty gentle gale . 
When I had made something more than a league of way by the help of this current or eddy , I found it was spent , and served me no further . 
However , I found that being between two great currents viz . 
Here I put in , and having stowed my boat very safe , I went on shore to look about me , and see where I was . 
However , even though I knew it was the parrot , and that indeed it could be nobody else , it was a good while before I could compose myself . 
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time , and had enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the danger I had been in . 
I would have been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about . 
Also , large deep baskets were the receivers of my corn , which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry and cured , and kept it in great baskets . 
At length I set three traps in one night , and going the next morning I found them , all standing , and yet the bait eaten and gone this was very discouraging . 
But I did not then know what I afterwards learned , that hunger will tame a lion . 
It was a good while before they would feed but throwing them some sweet corn , it tempted them , and they began to be tame . 
This was acting with some prudence , and I went to work with courage . 
, and never wanted it afterwards . 
Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure , as follows . 
In this kind of dress I went my new journey , and was out five or six days . 
And here , whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat , I took up my country habitation . 
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle , that is to say my goats , and I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground . 
But now I come to a new scene of my life . 
I stood like one thunderstruck , or as if I had seen an apparition . 
, I fled into it like one pursued . 
All this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself and with all the notions we usually entertain of the subtlety of the devil . 
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil and I presently concluded then that it must be some more dangerous creature viz . 
Such is the uneven state of human life and it afforded me a great many curious speculations afterwards , when I had a little recovered my first surprise . 
It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me . 
In answer , I thankfully laid down the book , and was no more sad , at least on that occasion . 
Oh , what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear ! It deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for their relief . 
When I was come down the hill to the shore , as I said above , being the SW . 
Things going on thus , as I have said , for some time , I seemed , excepting these cautions , to be reduced to my former calm , sedate way of living . 
In this place , then , I resolved to fulfil my design and accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling piece . 
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war than we do to kill an ox or to eat human flesh than we do to eat mutton . 
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left there belonging to her , though not necessary for the bare going thither viz . 
I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my food . 
For this reason , I removed that part of my business which required fire , such as burning of pots and pipes , c . 
But this is by the bye . 
What it was in the rock whether diamonds or any other precious stones , or gold which I rather supposed it to be I knew not . 
How long he might have lived afterwards I know not , though I know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years . 
My dog was a pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my time , and then died of mere old age . 
In this extremity I went back directly to my castle , pulled up the ladder after me , and made all things without look as wild and natural as I could . 
Then I prepared myself within , putting myself in a posture of defence . 
I continued in this posture about two hours , and began to be impatient for intelligence abroad , for I had no spies to send out . 
I should have observed , that for an hour or more before they went off they were dancing , and I could easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass . 
the blood , the bones , and part of the flesh of human bodies eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport . 
However , I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any more of the savages , and then I found them again , as I shall soon observe . 
In the day great troubles overwhelmed my mind and in the night I dreamed often of killing the savages and of the reasons why I might justify doing it . 
But to waive all this for a while . 
And no doubt they did for as soon as ever my fire blazed up , I heard another gun , and after that several others , all from the same quarter . 
Other times I imagined they had some other ship or ships in company , who , upon the signals of distress they made , had taken them up , and carried them off . 
Such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been saved . 
Let the naturalists explain these things , and the reason and manner of them . 
He had nothing in his pockets but two pieces of eight and a tobacco pipe the last was to me of ten times more value than the first . 
, and a basket of raisins and thus , loading myself with everything necessary . 
I went down to my boat , got the water out of her , got her afloat , loaded all my cargo in her , and then went home again for more . 
And now I was to launch out into the ocean , and either to venture or not to venture . 
It was a dismal sight to look at the ship , which by its building was Spanish , stuck fast , jammed in between two rocks . 
I took him into the boat , but found him almost dead with hunger and thirst . 
Besides the dog , there was nothing left in the ship that had life nor any goods , that I could see , but what were spoiled by the water . 
I saw several chests , which I believe belonged to some of the seamen and I got two of them into the boat , without examining what was in them . 
She had , no doubt , a great treasure in her , but of no use , at that time , to anybody and what became of the crew I then knew not . 
I found , besides these chests , a little cask full of liquor , of about twenty gallons , which I got into my boat with much difficulty . 
I reposed that night in the boat and in the morning I resolved to harbour what I had got in my new cave , and not carry it home to my castle . 
After refreshing myself , I got all my cargo on shore , and began to examine the particulars . 
I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me against this , they being the same mentioned before but though I had other reasons to offer now viz . 
However , I put myself into the same position for an attack that I had formerly provided , and was just ready for action , if anything had presented . 
I observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice as strong swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from them . 
I took him up and made much of him , and encouraged him all I could . 
His hair was long and black , not curled like wool his forehead very high and large and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes . 
I understood him in many things , and let him know I was very well pleased with him . 
I catched hold of Friday . 
Hold , said I , stand still and made signs to him not to stir immediately I presented my piece , shot , and killed one of the kids . 
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place . 
You always fight the better how came you to be taken prisoner , then , Friday ? FRIDAY . 
My nation beat much for all that . 
How beat ? If your nation beat them , how came you to be taken ? FRIDAY . 
But why did not your side recover you from the hands of your enemies , then ? FRIDAY . 
They run , one , two , three , and me , and make go in the canoe my nation have no canoe that time . 
Well , Friday , and what does your nation do with the men they take ? Do they carry them away and eat them , as these did ? FRIDAY . 
Yes , my nation eat mans too eat all up . 
Where do they carry them ? FRIDAY . 
Go to other place , where they think . 
Do they come hither ? FRIDAY . 
Yes , yes , they come hither come other else place . 
Have you been here with them ? FRIDAY . 
, was the great island Trinidad , on the north point of the mouth of the river . 
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this island , and get among those white men . 
He told me , Yes , yes , you may go in two canoe . 
I asked him if the people who die in his country went away anywhere ? He said , Yes they all went to Benamuckee . 
Then I asked him whether those they eat up went thither too . 
I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him . 
, and then came back and told them what Benamuckee said . 
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the devil as it was about the being of a God . 
He mused some time on this . 
Well , well , says he , mighty affectionately , that well so you , I , devil , all wicked , all preserve , repent , God pardon all . 
of repentance towards God , and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus . 
We had here the Word of God to read , and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England . 
Another thing I cannot refrain from observing here also , from experience in this retired part of my life , viz . 
We had the sure guide to heaven , viz . 
But I must go on with the historical part of things , and take every part in its order . 
Upon seeing this boat , Friday stood , musing a great while , and said nothing . 
I asked him what it was he studied upon . 
At last says he , Me see such boat like come to place at my nation . 
Friday described the boat to me well enough but brought me better to understand him when he added with some warmth , We save the white mans from drown . 
Then I presently asked if there were any white mans , as he called them , in the boat . 
Yes , he said the boat full of white mans . 
I asked him how many . 
He told upon his fingers seventeen . 
I asked him then what became of them . 
He told me , They live , they dwell at my nation . 
Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was become of them . 
He assured me they lived still there that they had been there about four years that the savages left them alone , and gave them victuals to live on . 
I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat them . 
I asked him what was the matter . 
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much , for which I was very sorry afterwards . 
Why , then , said I to him , they will kill you . 
He looked grave at that , and then said , No , no , they no kill me , they willing love learn . 
He meant by this , they would be willing to learn . 
He added , they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat . 
Then I asked him if he would go back to them . 
He smiled at that , and told me that he could not swim so far . 
I told him I would make a canoe for him . 
He told me he would go if I would go with him . 
I go ! says I why , they will eat me if I come there . 
No , no , says he , me make they no eat you me make they much love you . 
He meant , he would tell them how I had killed his enemies , and saved his life , and so he would make them love me . 
, I brought it out , showed it him , and we both went into it . 
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it , and would make it go almost as swift again as I could . 
Friday told me such a boat would do very well , and would carry much enough vittle , drink , bread this was his way of talking . 
He answered not one word , but looked very grave and sad . 
I asked him what was the matter with him . 
He asked me again , Why you angry mad with Friday ? what me done ? I asked him what he meant . 
I told him I was not angry with him at all . 
In a word , he would not think of going there without me . 
I go there , Friday ? says I what shall I do there ? He turned very quick upon me at this . 
You do great deal much good , says he you teach wild mans be good , sober , tame mans you tell them know God , pray God , and live new life . 
Alas , Friday ! says I , thou knowest not what thou sayest I am but an ignorant man myself . 
Yes , yes , says he , you teachee me good , you teachee them good . 
No , no , Friday , says I , you shall go without me leave me here to live by myself , as I did before . 
He looked confused again at that word and running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear , he takes it up hastily , and gives it to me . 
What must I do with this ? says I to him . 
You take kill Friday , says he . 
What must kill you for ? said I again . 
He returns very quick What you send Friday away for ? Take kill Friday , no send Friday away . 
This he spoke so earnestly that I saw tears stand in his eyes . 
So I asked him if he would , and if we might venture over in her . 
Yes , he said , we venture over in her very well , though great blow wind . 
However I had a further design that he knew nothing of , and that was , to make a mast and a sail , and to fit her with an anchor and cable . 
But as to the sail , that was my particular care . 
I was near two months performing this last work , viz . 
I went on , however , with my husbandry digging , planting , and fencing as usual . 
I gathered and cured my grapes , and did every necessary thing as before . 
The rainy season was in the meantime upon me , when I kept more within doors than at other times . 
When the settled season began to come in , as the thought of my design returned with the fair weather , I was preparing daily for the voyage . 
Well , Friday , says I , do not be frightened . 
So I heartened him up as well as I could . 
I comforted him as well as I could , and told him I was in as much danger as he , and that they would eat me as well as him . 
But , says I , Friday , we must resolve to fight them . 
Can you fight , Friday ? Me shoot , says he , but there come many great number . 
No matter for that , said I again our guns will fright them that we do not kill . 
So I asked him whether , if I resolved to defend him , he would defend me , and stand by me , and do just as I bid him . 
He said , Me die when you bid die , master . 
So I went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him for I had been so good a husband of my rum that I had a great deal left . 
Then I took four muskets , and loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets each and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each . 
I hung my great sword , as usual , naked by my side , and gave Friday his hatchet . 
He told me it was not one of their nation , but one of the bearded men he had told me of , that came to their country in the boat . 
Now , Friday , said I , do as I bid thee . 
Then , Friday , says I , do exactly as you see me do fail in nothing . 
Then fire at them , said I and at the same moment I fired also . 
Are you ready , Friday ? said I. Yes , says he . 
He answered in Latin , Christianus but was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak . 
He shook his head , and said , None ugly dog eat all up self . 
I had in my pocket two or three bunches of raisins , so I gave him a handful of them for his father . 
The water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him , for he was fainting with thirst . 
When his father had drunk , I called to him to know if there was any water left . 
As he passed me I spoke to him , and asked him whither he went . 
of good rice straw , with blankets laid upon it to lie on , and another to cover them , on each bed . 
My island was now peopled , and I thought myself very rich in subjects and it was a merry reflection , which I frequently made , how like a king I looked . 
First of all , the whole country was my own property , so that I had an undoubted right of dominion . 
However , I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions . 
But this is by the way . 
Friday was my interpreter , especially to his father , and , indeed , to the Spaniard too for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well . 
Friday and I were two heavenly spirits , or furies , come down to destroy them , and not men with weapons . 
, that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods . 
I asked him what he thought would become of them there , and if they had formed any design of making their escape . 
He said they had many consultations about it but that having neither vessel nor tools to build one , nor provisions of any kind , their councils always ended in tears and despair . 
Upon these assurances , I resolved to venture to relieve them , if possible , and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat . 
When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn , we fell to work to make more wicker ware , viz . 
How they were to have done this , when I knew they had neither pen nor ink , was a question which we never asked . 
This was a cheerful work , being the first measures used by me in view of my deliverance for now twenty seven years and some days . 
I had scarce set my foot upon the hill when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor , at about two leagues and a half distance from me , SSE . 
, but not above a league and a half from the shore . 
By my observation it appeared plainly to be an English ship , and the boat appeared to be an English long boat . 
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being real . 
I was perfectly confounded at the sight , and knew not what the meaning of it should be . 
Friday called out to me in English , as well as he could , O master ! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans . 
Why , Friday , says I , do you think they are going to eat them , then ? Yes , says Friday , they will eat them . 
No no , says I , Friday I am afraid they will murder them , indeed but you may be sure they will not eat them . 
In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle as before , though with more caution , knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first . 
I ordered Friday also , whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun , to load himself with arms . 
I took myself two fowling pieces , and I gave him three muskets . 
They made no answer at all , but I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me , when I spoke to them in English . 
Gentlemen , said I , do not be surprised at me perhaps you may have a friend near when you did not expect it . 
All help is from heaven , sir , said I , but can you put a stranger in the way to help you ? for you seem to be in some great distress . 
I saw you when you landed and when you seemed to make application to the brutes that came with you , I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you . 
Have they any firearms ? said I. He answered , They had only two pieces , one of which they left in the boat . 
I asked him which they were . 
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them , but he would obey my orders in anything I would direct . 
Well , says I , let us retreat out of their view or hearing , lest they awake , and we will resolve further . 
So they willingly went back with me , till the woods covered us from them . 
Well , then , said I , here are three muskets for you , with powder and ball tell me next what you think is proper to be done . 
He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able , but offered to be wholly guided by me . 
Well , then , says I , necessity legitimates my advice , for it is the only way to save our lives . 
However , seeing him still cautious of shedding blood , I told him they should go themselves , and manage as they found convenient . 
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake , and soon after we saw two of them on their feet . 
Now , says I , if the rest escape you , it is your fault . 
By this time I was come and when they saw their danger , and that it was in vain to resist , they begged for mercy . 
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one another's circumstances . 
After this communication was at an end , I carried him and his two men into my apartment , leading them in just where I came out , viz . 
all which was very welcome to me , especially the brandy and sugar , of which I had had none left for many years . 
, we knocked a great hole in her bottom , that if they had come strong enough to master us , yet they could not carry off the boat . 
What is that ? say she . 
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance , I found it greatly encouraged him so we set vigorously to our business . 
We had , upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the ship , considered of separating our prisoners and we had , indeed , secured them effectually . 
for their comfort and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance . 
Then they came all close in a ring , and fired a volley of their small arms , which indeed we heard , and the echoes made the woods ring . 
to leave three men in the boat , and the rest to go on shore , and go up into the country to look for their fellows . 
However we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might present . 
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of theirs , viz . 
I liked this proposal , provided it was done while we were near enough to come up to them before they could load their pieces again . 
But this event did not happen and we lay still a long time , very irresolute what course to take . 
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark , and to fall upon them , so as to make sure work with them . 
They hallooed again , and called their two comrades by their names a great many times but no answer . 
At the noise of the fire I immediately advanced with my whole army , which was now eight men , viz . 
myself , generalissimo Friday , my lieutenant general the captain and his two men , and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms . 
The other answered , Ay , ay for God's sake , Tom Smith , throw down your arms and yield , or you are all dead men this moment . 
Who must we yield to ? Where are they ? says Smith again . 
Will they give us quarter , then ? says Tom Smith , and we will yield . 
However , the captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion , and trust to the governor's mercy by which he meant me , for they all called me governor . 
They all appeared very penitent , and begged hard for their lives . 
This more perfectly amazed them , and they all believed that the commander was just by , with his fifty men . 
Upon the captain coming to me , I told him my project for seizing the ship , which he liked wonderfully well , and resolved to put it in execution the next morning . 
This was committed to Friday and the two men who came on shore with the captain . 
They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison and it was , indeed , a dismal place , especially to men in their condition . 
Well , says the captain , I must go and tell the governor what you say , and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it . 
So he brought me an account of the temper he found them in , and that he verily believed they would be faithful . 
, as hostages for the fidelity of those five and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution , the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore . 
The captain now had no difficulty before him , but to furnish his two boats , stop the breach of one , and man them . 
He perceived the surprise , and immediately pulled a bottle out of his pocket and gave me a dram of cordial , which he had brought on purpose for me . 
I should be very glad of that , says the captain , with all my heart . 
Well , says I , I will send for them up and talk with them for you . 
After some time , I came thither dressed in my new habit and now I was called governor again . 
If they desired that , as I had liberty to leave the island , I had some inclination to give them their lives , if they thought they could shift on shore . 
They seemed very thankful for it , and said they would much rather venture to stay there than be carried to England to be hanged . 
So I left it on that issue . 
However , the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it , as if he durst not leave them there . 
When the captain was gone I sent for the men up to me to my apartment , and entered seriously into discourse with them on their circumstances . 
I told them I thought they had made a right choice that if the captain had carried them away they would certainly be hanged . 
I showed them the new captain hanging at the yard arm of the ship , and told them they had nothing less to expect . 
I left them my firearms viz . 
five muskets , three fowling pieces , and three swords . 
I had above a barrel and a half of powder left for after the first year or two I used but little , and wasted none . 
I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats , and directions to milk and fatten them , and to make both butter and cheese . 
Also , I gave them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me to eat , and bade them be sure to sow and increase them . 
CHAPTER XIX RETURN TO ENGLAND HAVING done all this I left them the next day , and went on board the ship . 
We prepared immediately to sail , but did not weigh that night . 
I also encouraged them , by telling them that if it lay in my power to send any vessel to take them in , I would not forget them . 
In this vessel , after a long voyage , I arrived in England the th of June , in the year , having been thirty five years absent . 
When I came to England I was as perfect a stranger to all the world as if I had never been known there . 
The old man did not know me , and indeed I hardly knew him . 
But I soon brought him to my remembrance , and as soon brought myself to his remembrance , when I told him who I was . 
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us , I inquired , you may he sure , after my plantation and my partner . 
, and have given his son , who was now at the Brazils , orders to do it . 
tobacco in roll , and sugar in chests , besides rum , molasses , c . 
However , my old friend , says he , you shall not want a supply in your necessity and as soon as my son returns you shall be fully satisfied . 
When this was past , the old man asked me if he should put me into a method to make my claim to my plantation . 
I told him I thought to go over to it myself . 
Thirdly , there was the Prior of St . 
By the same fleet my two merchant trustees shipped me one thousand two hundred chests of sugar , eight hundred rolls of tobacco , and the rest of the whole account in gold . 
I might well say now , indeed , that the latter end of Job was better than the beginning . 
My old patron , the captain , indeed , was honest , and that was the only refuge I had . 
resolved to give answers suitable to the just and faithful account of things I had from thence and , first , to the Prior of St . 
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered with snow , and felt cold weather , which he had never seen or felt before in his life . 
I proposed that we should go away to Fontarabia , and there take shipping for Bordeaux , which was a very little voyage . 
My man Friday being next me , I bade him ride up and see what was the matter . 
We were all a little surprised when we saw him but when Friday saw him , it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's countenance . 
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased . 
You fool , says I , he will eat you up . 
Eatee me up ! eatee me up ! says Friday , twice over again me eatee him up me makee you good laugh you all stay here , me show you good laugh . 
, gives my other servant his horse , and with his gun away he flew , swift like the wind . 
The bear was walking softly on , and offered to meddle with nobody , till Friday coming pretty near , calls to him , as if the bear could understand him . 
Hark ye , hark ye , says Friday , me speakee with you . 
When we came to the tree , there was Friday got out to the small end of a large branch , and the bear got about half way to him . 
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh and when he saw we were pleased by our looks , he began to laugh very loud . 
So we kill bear in my country , says Friday . 
So you kill them ? says I why , you have no guns . 
No , says he , no gun , but shoot great much long arrow . 
As soon as we came into the plain , we had occasion enough to look about us . 
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast , neither did they take much notice of us . 
Four of them being shot in the head , dropped several others were wounded , and went bleeding off , as we could see by the snow . 
I then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear , which put them to the gallop , and away they went to the woods . 
We did so , and it was well we did for never was a more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place . 
We had , first and last , killed about threescore of them , and had it been daylight we had killed many more . 
The field of battle being thus cleared , we made forward again , for we had still near a league to go . 
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through France nothing but what other travellers have given an account of with much more advantage than I can . 
during his life , and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life , which I had promised them , and which the plantation was to make good as a rent charge . 
a carpenter and a smith . 
The fellows proved very honest and diligent after they were mastered and had their properties set apart for them . 
