keller the upper outside corner of page and has been torn from the hardcopy . 
The spots are marked with ? ? and a best guess at missing words is in brackets . 
Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
Lucretius on the Nature of Things . 
Contents INTRODUCTION THE LIFE OF CHARLES PEACE I. HIS EARLY YEARS II . 
HIS TRIAL AND EXECUTION THE CAREER OF ROBERT BUTLER I. THE DUNEDIN MURDERS II . 
THE TRIAL OF BUTLER III . 
HIS DECLINE AND FALL M. DERUES I. THE CLIMBING LITTLE GROCER II . 
THE GAYE OF BLUFF DR . 
CASTAING I. AN UNHAPPY COINCIDENCE II . 
CASTAING PROFESSOR WEBSTER THE MYSTERIOUS MR . 
HOLMES I. HONOUR AMONGST THIEVES II THE WANDERING ASSASSIN PARTNERSHIP IN CRIME I. THE WIDOW GRAS . 
VITALIS AND MARIE BOYER III . 
I REMEMBER my father telling me that sitting up late one night talking with Tennyson , the latter remarked that he had not kept such late hours since a recent visit of Jowett . 
On that occasion the poet and the philosopher had talked together well into the small hours of the morning . 
My father asked Tennyson what was the subject of conversation that had so engrossed them . 
It would have been interesting to have heard Tennyson and Jowett discussing such a theme . 
The fact is a tribute to the interest that crime has for many men of intellect and imagination . 
Perhaps we may find some little consolation in this fact , like the unhappy victims of famous freebooters such as Jack Sheppard or Charley Peace . 
But do not let us flatter ourselves . 
Greed , love of pleasure , writes a French judge , lust , idleness , anger , hatred , revenge , these are the chief causes of crime . 
These passions and desires are shared by rich and poor alike , by the educated and uneducated . 
They are inherent in human nature the germ is in every man . 
Convicts represent those wrong doers who have taken to a particular form of wrong doing punishable by law . 
Of the larger army of bad men they represent a minority , who have been found out in a peculiarly unsatisfactory kind of misconduct . 
And so it is with some of those heroes of history who have been made the theme of fine writing by gifted historians . 
Because crimes are played on a great stage instead of a small , that is no reason why our moral judgment should be suspended or silenced . 
Class Machiavelli and Frederick the Great as a couple of rascals fit to rank with Jonathan Wild , and we are getting nearer a perception of what constitutes the real criminal . 
These are the very sentiments of Jonathan Wild . 
As children of nature we must not be surprised if our instincts are not all that they should be . 
It is to check an inconvenient form of the expression of this instinct that we punish murderers with death . 
We must carry the definition of murder a step farther before we can count on peace or happiness ? ? in ? ? this world . 
We must concentrate all our strength on ? ? fighting criminal nature , both in ourselves and in the world around us . 
With the destructive forces of nature we are waging a perpetual struggle for our very existence . 
Why dissipate our strength by fighting among ourselves ? By enlarging our conception of crime we move towards that end . 
If this war is to mean anything to posterity , the crime against humanity must be judged in the future by the same rigid standard as the crime against the person . 
The individual criminals whose careers are given in this book have been chosen from among their fellows for their pre eminence in character or achievement . 
Some of the cases , such as Butler , Castaing and Holmes , are new to most English readers . 
Charles Peace is the outstanding popular figure in nineteenth century crime . 
He is the type of the professional criminal who makes crime a business and sets about it methodically and persistently to the end . 
Yet it is a curious circumstance that this determined and ruthless burglar should have suffered for what would be classed in France as a crime passionel . 
There is more than a possibility that a French jury would have ? ? ing circumstances in the murder of Dyson . 
The desire to acquire things by a short cut , without taking the trouble to work for them honestly , is perhaps the most fruitful of all sources of crime . 
What is good enough for Caesar Borgia is good enough for Robert Butler . 
Like Borgia he comes to grief criminals succeed and criminals fail . 
In the case of historical criminals their crimes are open we can estimate the successes and failures . 
With ordinary criminals , we know only those who fail . 
The successful , the real geniuses in crime , those whose guilt remains undiscovered , are for the most part unknown to us . 
Occasionally in society a man or woman is pointed out as having once murdered somebody or other , and at times , no doubt , with truth . 
But the matter can only be referred to clandestinely they are gazed at with awe or curiosity , mute witnesses to their own achievement . 
Some years ago James Payn , the novelist , hazarded the reckoning that one person in every five hundred was an undiscovered murderer . 
This gives us all a hope , almost a certainty , that we may reckon one such person at least among our acquaintances . 
The author was one of three men discussing this subject in a London club . 
They were able to name six persons of their various acquaintance who were , or had been , suspected of being successful murderers . 
He is remarkable , too , for his mirth and high spirits , his genial buffoonery the merry murderer is a rare bird . 
Professor Webster belongs to that order of criminal of which Eugene Aram and the Rev . 
John Selby Watson are our English examples , men of culture and studious habits who suddenly burst on the astonished gaze of their fellowmen as murderers . 
The exact process of mind by which these hitherto harmless citizens are converted into assassins is to a great extent hidden from us . 
Perhaps Webster's case is the clearest of the three . 
Here we have a selfish , self indulgent and spendthrift gentleman who has landed himself in serious financial embarrassment , seeking by murder to escape from an importunate and relentless creditor . 
He has not , apparently , the moral courage to face the consequences of his own weakness . 
One would wish to believe that Webster's deed was unpremeditated , the result of a sudden gust of passion caused by his victim's acrimonious pursuit of his debtor . 
But there are circumstances in the case which tell powerfully against such a view . 
Webster was a man of refined tastes and seemingly gentle character , loved by those near to him , well liked by his friends . 
The mystery that surrounds the real character of Eugene Aram is greater , and we possess little or no means of solving it . 
Vanity in all probability played a considerable part in Aram's disposition . 
He would seem to have thought himself a superior person , above the laws that bind ordinary men . 
He showed at the end no consciousness of his guilt . 
Being something of a philosopher , he had no doubt constructed for himself a philosophy of life which served to justify his own actions . 
He was a deist , believing in one almighty Being the God of Nature , to whom he recommended himself at the last in the event of his having done amiss . 
He emphasised the fact that his life had been unpolluted and his morals irreproachable . 
But his views as to the murder of Clark he left unexpressed . 
John Selby Watson , headmaster of the Stockwell Grammar School , at the age of sixty five killed his wife in his library one Sunday afternoon . 
Things had been going badly with the unfortunate man . 
The future for a man of his years was dark enough . 
The author of several learned books , painstaking , scholarly , dull , he could hope to make but little money from literary work . 
Under a cold , reserved and silent exterior , Selby Watson concealed a violence of temper which he sought diligently to repress . 
His wife's temper was none of the best . 
Medical opinion was divided as to his mental condition . 
Those doctors called for the prosecution could find no trace of insanity about him , those called for the defence said that he was suffering from melancholia . 
The unhappy man would appear hardly to have realised the gravity of his situation . 
To a friend who visited him in prison he said Here's a man who can write Latin , which the Bishop of Winchester would commend , shut up in a place like this . 
Coming from a man who had spent all his life buried in books and knowing little of the world the remark is not so greatly to be wondered at . 
Profound scholars are apt to be impatient of mundane things . 
Professor Webster showed a similar want of appreciation of the circumstances of a person charged with wilful murder . 
Selby Watson was convicted of murder and sentenced to death . 
Selby Watson was tried at the Central Criminal Court January , . 
Castaing is a man of sensibility , capable of domestic affection Holmes completely insensible to all feelings of humanity . 
Taking life is a mere incident in the accomplishment of his schemes men , women and children are sacrificed with equal mercilessness to the necessary end . 
A consummate liar and hypocrite , he has that strange power of fascination over others , women in particular , which is often independent altogether of moral or even physical attractiveness . 
We are accustomed to look for a certain vastness , grandeur of scale in the achievements of America . 
A study of American crime will show that it does not disappoint us in this expectation . 
The extent and audacity of the crimes of Holmes are proof of it . 
To find a counterpart in imaginative literature to the complete criminal of the Holmes type we must turn to the pages of Shakespeare . 
of Shakespeare shows how clearly the poet understood the instinctive criminal of real life . 
The Richard of history was no doubt less instinctively and deliberately an assassin than the Richard of Shakespeare . 
In the former we can trace the gradual temptation to crime to which circumstances provoke him . 
The murder of the Princes , if , as one writer contends , it was not the work of Henry VII . 
But the Richard of Shakespeare is no child of circumstance . 
The character is sometimes criticised as being overdrawn and unreal . 
Shakespeare got nearer to what we may term the domestic as opposed to the political criminal when he created Iago . 
But there is a weakness in the character of Iago regarded as a purely instinctive and malignant criminal indeed it is a weakness in the consistency of the play . 
The thought of it he describes as gnawing his inwards . 
Emilia's conversation with Desdemona in the last act lends some colour to the correctness of Iago's belief . 
If it be a morbid suspicion , having no ground in fact , a mental obsession , then Iago becomes abnormal and consequently more or less irre sponsible . 
The most successful , and therefore perhaps the greatest , criminal in Shakespeare is King Claudius of Denmark . 
His murder of his brother by pouring a deadly poison into his ear while sleeping , is so skilfully perpetrated as to leave no suspicion of foul play . 
But for a supernatural intervention , a contingency against which no murderer could be expected to have provided , the crime of Claudius would never have been discovered . 
Smiling , jovial , genial as M. Derues or Dr . 
There is no real evidence to show that Queen Gertrude was her lover's accomplice in her husband's murder . 
If that had been so , she would no doubt have been of considerable assistance to Claudius in the preparation of the crime . 
Whatever may have been his inward feelings of remorse or self reproach , Claudius masked them successfully from the eyes of all . 
Hamlet's instinctive dislike of his uncle was not shared by the members of the Danish court . 
The witchcraft of his wit , his traitorous gifts , were powerful aids to Claudius , not only in the seduction of his sister in law , but the perpetration of secret murder . 
The case of the murder of King Duncan of Scotland by Macbeth and his wife belongs to a different class of crime . 
It is a striking example of dual crime , four instances of which are given towards the end of this book . 
In some cases these two roles are clearly differentiated it is easy , as in the case of Iago and Othello , Cassius and Brutus , to say who prompted the crime . 
In others the guilt seems equally divided and the original suggestion of crime to spring from a mutual tendency towards the adoption of such an expedient . 
In Macbeth and his wife we have a perfect instance of the latter class . 
To Lady Macbeth from the moment she has received her husband's letter telling of the prophecy of the weird sisters , murder occurs as a means of accomplishing their prediction . 
To Banquo a somewhat similar intimation is given , but no foul thought of crime suggests itself for an instant to his loyal nature . 
What Macbeth and his wife lack at first as thorough going murderers is that complete insensibility to taking human life that marks the really ruthless assassin . 
Lady Macbeth has the stronger will of the two for the commission of the deed . 
It is doubtful whether without her help Macbeth would ever have undertaken it . 
But even she , when her husband hesitates to strike , cannot bring herself to murder the aged Duncan with her own hands because of his resemblance as he sleeps to her father . 
It is only after a deal of boggling and at serious risk of untimely interruption that the two contrive to do the murder , and plaster with blood the surfeited grooms . 
For the time all suspicion of guilt , except in the mind of Banquo , is averted from the real murderers . 
But , like so many criminals , Macbeth finds it impossible to rest on his first success in crime . 
In the murder of Duncan , it is the first of these two states of mind to which Macbeth and his wife have only partially attained . 
The moral repugnance stronger in the man has not been wholly lost by the woman . 
and Iago were gifted from the first . 
Such couples are frequent in the history of crime . 
Antoninus and Aurelius , Ferdinand and Isabella , the De Goncourt brothers , Besant and Rice , Gilbert and Sullivan , Swan and Edgar leap to the memory . 
In the cases of Eyraud and Bompard , both man and woman are idle , vicious criminals by instinct . 
They come together , lead an abandoned life , sinking lower and lower in moral degradation . 
In the hour of need , crime presents itself as a simple expedient for which neither of them has any natural aversion . 
The repugnance to evil , if they ever felt it , has long since disappeared from their natures . 
The man is serious , the woman frivolous , but the criminal tendency in both cases is the same each performs his or her part in the crime with characteristic aptitude . 
Mrs. Manning was a creature of much firmer character than her husband , a woman of strong passions , a redoubtable murderess . 
Without her dominating force Manning might never have committed murder . 
Burke and Hare were a couple of ruffians , tempted by what must have seemed almost fabulous wealth to men of their wretched poverty to commit a series of cruel murders . 
Hare , with his queer , Mephistophelian countenance , was the wickeder of the two . 
Burke became haunted as time went on and flew to drink to banish horror , but Hare would seem to have been free from such compunctious visitings of Nature . 
He kept his head and turned King's evidence . 
In the case of the Peltzer brothers we have a man who is of good social position , falling desperately in love with the wife of a successful barrister . 
The wife , though unhappy in her domestic life , refuses to become her lover's mistress marriage is the only way to secure her . 
So Armand Peltzer plots to murder the husband . 
For this purpose he calls in the help of a brother , a ne'er do well , who has left his native country under a cloud . 
He sends for this dubious person to Europe , and there between them they plan the murder of the inconvenient husband . 
Though the idea of the crime comes from the one brother , the other receives the idea without repugnance and enters wholeheartedly into the commission of the murder . 
The ascendency of the one is evident , but he knows his man , is sure that he will have no difficulty in securing the other's co operation in his felonious purpose . 
Armand Peltzer should have lived in the Italy of the Renaissance . 
The crime was cunningly devised , and methodically and successfully accomplished . 
Only an over anxiety to secure the fruits of it led to its detection . 
To Barre belongs the original suggestion to murder an old woman who sells milk and is reputed to have savings . 
In all the cases here quoted the couples are essentially criminal couples . 
From whichever of the two comes the first suggestion of crime , it falls on soil already prepared to receive it the response to the suggestion is immediate . 
In degree of guilt there is little or nothing to choose between them . 
Cassius is a criminal by instinct . 
Indeed , the quarrel between Brutus and Cassius after the murder of Caesar loses much of its sincerity and pathos unless we can forget for the moment the real character of Cassius . 
But the interest in the cases of Cassius and Brutus , Iago and Othello , lies not so much in the nature of the prompter of the crime . 
The instances in which an honest , honourable man is by force of another's suggestion converted into a criminal are psychologically remarkable . 
It is to be expected that we should look in the annals of real crime for confirmation of the truth to life of stories such as these , told in fiction or drama . 
Examples of this kind are frequent in the annals of crime . 
There is none more striking than that of the Widow Gras and Natalis Gaudry . 
Here a man , brave , honest , of hitherto irreproachable character , is tempted by a woman to commit the most cruel and infamous of crimes . 
Nothing seems so blinding in its effect on the moral sense as passion . 
Marie Boyer in the blindness of her passion and jealousy believes God to be helping her to get rid of her mother . 
Case of Garnier and the woman Aveline , . 
Case of the Comte de Cornulier Un An de Justice , Henri Varennes , . 
A lover persuades the wife to get rid of her husband . 
How many times , she writes , have I wished to go away , leave home , but it meant leaving my children , losing them for ever . 
that made my lover jealous , he believed that I could not bring myself to leave my husband . 
But if my husband were out of the way then I would keep my children , and my lover would see in my crime a striking proof of my devotion . 
A curious farrago of slavish passion , motherly love and murder . 
Case of Madame Weiss and the engineer Roques . 
If I may be permitted the reference , there is an account of this case and that of Barre and Lebiez in my book French Criminals of the Nineteenth Century . 
There are some women such as Marie Boyer and Gabrielle Fenayrou , who may be described as passively criminal , chameleon like , taking colour from their surroundings . 
In prison they become exemplary , their crime a thing of the past . 
Gabrielle Fenayrou during her imprisonment , having won the confidence of the religious sisters in charge of the convicts , is appointed head of one of the workshops . 
Marie Boyer is so contrite , exemplary in her behaviour that she is released after fifteen years' imprisonment . 
There is no more extraordinary instance of this than the case of Catherine Hayes , immortalised by Thackeray , which occurred as long ago as the year . 
It was unquestionably the sinister influence of Captain Cranstoun that later in the same century persuaded the respectable Miss Mary Blandy to the murder of her father . 
God , she added , will forgive us because He knows how poor we are . 
When he came to do the murder , this determined woman plied her lover with brandy and put rouge on his cheeks lest his pallor should betray him . 
Case of Albert and the woman Lavoitte , Paris , . 
A man desires to get rid of his father and mother in law . 
By means of threats , reproaches and inducements he persuades another man to commit the crime . 
Taking a gun , the latter sets out to do the deed but he realises the heinousness of it and turns back . 
The next day , he says , at four o'clock in the morning I started again . 
I passed the village church . 
At the sight of the place where I had celebrated my first communion I was filled with remorse . 
I knelt down and prayed to God to make me good . 
But some unknown force urged me to the crime . 
I started again ten times I turned back , but the more I hesitated the stronger was the desire to go on . 
At length the faltering assassin arrived at the house , and in his painful anxiety of mind shot a servant instead of the intended victims . 
Case of Porcher and Hardouin cited in Despine . 
In a town in Austria there dwelt a happy and contented married couple , poor and hard working . 
A charming young lady , a rich relation and an orphan , comes to live with them . 
She brings to their modest home wealth and comfort . 
But as time goes on , it is likely that the young lady will fall in love and marry . 
What then ? Her hosts will have to return to their original poverty . 
The idea of how to secure to himself the advantages of his young kinswoman's fortune takes possession of the husband's mind . 
He revolves all manner of means , and gradually murder presents itself as the only way . 
The horrid suggestion fixes itself in his mind , and at last he communicates it to his wife . 
At first she resists , then yields to the temptation . 
The wife is to disappear to America and be given out as dead . 
The husband will then marry his attractive kinswoman , persuade her to make a will in his favour , poison her and , the fortune secured , rejoin his wife . 
As if to help this cruel plan , the young lady has developed a sentimental affection for her relative . 
The wife goes to America , the husband marries the young lady . 
He commences to poison her , but , in the presence of her youth , beauty and affection for him , relents , hesitates to commit a possibly unnecessary crime . 
He decides to forget and ignore utterly his wife who is waiting patiently in America . 
The expectant wife gets no sign of her husband's existence . 
A sentence of penal servitude for life rewards this perfidious criminal . 
Case of the Scheffer couple at Linz , cited by Sighele . 
The saying that truth is stranger than fiction applies more forcibly to crime than to anything else . 
But the ordinary man and woman prefer to take their crime romanticised , as it is administered to them in novel or play . 
The true stories told in this book represent the raw material from which works of art have been and may be yet created . 
The murder of Mr. Arden of Faversham inspired an Elizabethan tragedy attributed by some critics to Shakespeare . 
The Peltzer trial helped to inspire Paul Bourget's remarkable novel , Andre Cornelis . 
To Italian crime we owe Shelley's Cenci and Browning's The Ring and the Book . 
Mrs. Manning was the original of the maid Hortense in Bleak House . 
Jonathan Wild , Eugene Aram , Deacon Brodie , Thomas Griffiths Wainewright have all been made the heroes of books or plays of varying merit . 
But it is not only in its stories that crime has served to inspire romance . 
There is always and must be in every crime a terra incognita which , unless we could enter into the very soul of a man , we cannot hope to reach . 
Thus far may we go , no farther . 
It is no doubt better so , and that it should be left to the writer of imagination to picture for us a man's inmost soul . 
The study of crime will help him to that end . 
These themes , touched on but lightly and imperfectly in these pages , are rich in human interest . 
And so it is hardly a matter for surprise that the poet and the philosopher sat up late one night talking about murders . 
, and The Master Criminal , published recently in London give useful information . 
I have also consulted some of the newspapers of the time . 
There is a delightful sketch of Peace in Mr. Charles Whibley's Book of Scoundrels . 
In Charley Peace alone is revived that good humoured popularity which in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries fell to the lot of Claude Duval , Dick Turpin and Jack Sheppard . 
But Peace has one grievance against posterity he has endured one humiliation which these heroes have been spared . 
His name has been omitted from the pages of the Dictionary of National Biography . 
From the literary point of view Peace was unfortunate even in the hour of his notoriety . 
Simultaneously with the curtailment of its Chronicle , it ceased to give those excellent summaries of celebrated trials which for many years had been a feature of its volumes . 
But it is undeniable that the present volumes of the Annual Register have fallen away dismally from the variety and human interest of their predecessors . 
Of the trial and execution of Peace the volume for gives but the barest record . 
Charles Peace was not born of criminal parents . 
His father , John Peace , began work as a collier at Burton on Trent . 
Losing his leg in an accident , he joined Wombwell's wild beast show and soon acquired some reputation for his remarkable powers as a tamer of wild animals . 
About this time Peace married at Rotherham the daughter of a surgeon in the Navy . 
On May , , there was born to John Peace in Sheffield a son , Charles , the youngest of his family of four . 
The course of many famous men's lives has been changed by what appeared at the time to be an unhappy accident . 
About this time Peace's father died . 
Of the circumstances that first led Peace to the commission of crime we know nothing . 
His first exploit was the stealing of an old gentleman's gold watch , but he soon passed to greater things . 
On October , , the house of a lady living in Sheffield was broken into and a quantity of her property stolen . 
Some of it was found in the possession of Peace , and he was arrested . 
Owing no doubt to a good character for honesty given him by his late employer Peace was let off lightly with a month's imprisonment . 
After his release Peace would seem to have devoted himself for a time to music , for which he had always a genuine passion . 
He taught himself to play tunes on a violin with one string , and at entertainments which he attended was described as the modern Paganini . 
In later life when he had attained to wealth and prosperity the violin and the harmonium were a constant source of solace during long winter evenings in Greenwich and Peckham . 
During the year the houses of a number of well to do residents in and about Sheffield were entered after this fashion , and much valuable property stolen . 
Peace was arrested , and with him a girl with whom he was keeping company , and his sister , Mary Ann , at that time Mrs. Neil . 
On October , , Peace was sentenced at Doncaster Sessions to four years' penal servitude , and the ladies who had been found in possession of the stolen property to six months apiece . 
Mrs. Neil did not long survive her misfortune . 
She would seem to have been married to a brutal and drunken husband , whom Peace thrashed on more than one occasion for ill treating his sister . 
After one of these punishments Neil set a bull dog on to Peace but Peace caught the dog by the lower jaw and punched it into a state of coma . 
On coming out of prison in , Peace resumed his fiddling , but it was now no more than a musical accompaniment to burglary . 
This had become the serious business of Peace's life , to be pursued , should necessity arise , even to the peril of men's lives . 
His operations extended beyond the bounds of his native town . 
The house of a lady living in Manchester was broken into on the night of August , , and a substantial booty carried away . 
This was found the following day concealed in a hole in a field . 
The police left it undisturbed and awaited the return of the robber . 
When Peace and another man arrived to carry it away , the officers sprang out on them . 
Peace , after nearly killing the officer who was trying to arrest him , would have made his escape , had not other policemen come to the rescue . 
He was released from prison again in , and returned to Sheffield . 
Things did not prosper with him there , and he went back to Manchester . 
In he was caught in the act of burglary at a house in Lower Broughton . 
He admitted that at the time he was fuddled with whisky otherwise his capture would have been more difficult and dangerous . 
Usually a temperate man , Peace realised on this occasion the value of sobriety even in burglary , and never after allowed intemperance to interfere with his success . 
A sentence of eight years' penal servitude at Manchester Assizes on December , , emphasised this wholesome lesson . 
Whilst serving this sentence Peace emulated Jack Sheppard in a daring attempt to escape from Wakefield prison . 
Being engaged on some repairs , he smuggled a small ladder into his cell . 
This was denied him , and he was recaptured in the governor's bedroom . 
The prisons at Millbank , Chatham and Gibraltar were all visited by Peace before his final release in . 
At Chatham he is said to have taken part in a mutiny and been flogged for his pains . 
On his liberation from prison Peace rejoined his family in Sheffield . 
He was now a husband and father . 
In he had taken to wife a widow of the name of Hannah Ward . 
Mrs. Ward was already the mother of a son , Willie . 
Shortly after her marriage with Peace she gave birth to a daughter , and during his fourth term of imprisonment presented him with a son . 
Peace never saw this child , who died before his release . 
In the bosom of Jesus Who sits on the throne Thou art anxiously waiting to welcome us home . 
In Sheffield his children attended the Sunday School . 
Though he never went to church himself , he was an avowed believer in both God and the devil . 
As he said , however , that he feared neither , no great reliance could be placed on the restraining force of such a belief to a man of Peace's daring spirit . 
There was only too good reason to fear that little John Charles' period of waiting would be a prolonged one . 
In Peace moved from Sheffield itself to the suburb of Darnall . 
Here Peace made the acquaintance a fatal acquaintance , as it turned out of a Mr. and Mrs. Dyson . 
Dyson was a civil engineer . 
He had spent some years in America , where , in , he married . 
Toward the end of or the beginning of , he came to England with his wife , and obtained a post on the North Eastern Railway . 
He was a tall man , over six feet in height , extremely thin , and gentlemanly in his bearing . 
His engagement with the North Eastern Railway terminated abruptly owing to Dyson's failing to appear at a station to which he had been sent on duty . 
It was believed at the time by those associated with Dyson that this unlooked for dereliction of duty had its cause in domestic trouble . 
Peace had got to know the Dysons , first as a tradesman , then as a friend . 
To what degree of intimacy he attained with Mrs. Dyson it is difficult to determine . 
In that lies the mystery of the case Mrs. Dyson is described as an attractive woman , buxom and blooming she was dark haired , and about twenty five years of age . 
In an interview with the Vicar of Darnall a few days before his execution , Peace asserted positively that Mrs. Dyson had been his mistress . 
Mrs. Dyson as strenuously denied the fact . 
Peace had introduced Mrs. Dyson to his wife and daughter , and on one occasion was said to have taken her to his mother's house , much to the old lady's indignation . 
But Peace , for all his ugliness , could be wonderfully ingratiating when he chose . 
According to Peace's story he was a slighted lover who had been treated by Mrs. Dyson with contumely and ingratitude . 
On July Peace met Mr. Dyson in the street , and tried to trip him up . 
In consequence of these incidents Mr. Dyson took out a summons against Peace , for whose apprehension a warrant was issued . 
To avoid the consequences of this last step Peace left Darnall for Hull , where he opened an eating shop , presided over by Mrs. Peace . 
But he himself was not idle . 
From Hull he went to Manchester on business , and in Manchester he committed his first murder . 
Entering the grounds of a gentleman's home at Whalley Range , about midnight on August , he was seen by two policemen . 
One of them , Constable Cock , intercepted him as he was trying to escape . 
Peace took out his revolver and warned Cock to stand back . 
Peace fired , but deliberately wide of him . 
Cock , undismayed , drew out his truncheon , and made for the burglar . 
Peace , desperate , determined not to be caught , fired again , this time fatally . 
Cock's comrade heard the shots , but before he could reach the side of the dying man , Peace had made off . 
If the Dysons thought that they had seen the last of Peace , they were soon to be convinced to the contrary . 
Peace had not forgotten his friends at Darnall . 
By some means or other he was kept informed of all their doings , and on one occasion was seen by Mrs. Dyson lurking near her home . 
To get away from him the Dysons determined to leave Darnall . 
They took a house at Banner Cross , another suburb of Sheffield , and on October moved into their new home . 
One of the first persons Mrs. Dyson saw on arriving at Banner Cross was Peace himself . 
You see , he said , I am here to annoy you , and I'll annoy you wherever you go . 
Later , Peace and a friend passed Mr. Dyson in the street . 
Peace took out his revolver . 
If he offers to come near me , said he , I will make him stand back . 
But Mr. Dyson took no notice of Peace and passed on . 
He had another month to live . 
According to the statements of many witnesses , he was at this time in a state of constant irritation and excitement on the Dyson's account . 
He struck his daughter because she alluded in a way he did not like to his relations with Mrs. Dyson . 
Peace always believed in corporal chastisement as a means of keeping order at home . 
Pleasant and entertaining as he could be , he was feared . 
It was very dangerous to incur his resentment . 
Be sure , said his wife , you do nothing to offend our Charley , or you will suffer for it . 
Dyson beyond a doubt had offended our Charley . 
The trial commenced at the Manchester Assizes before Mr. Justice Lindley on Monday , November . 
Cock was a zealous young officer of twenty three years of age , rather too eager perhaps in the discharge of his duty . 
On July William was fined five shillings , and on August , the day of Cock's murder , John had been fined half a sovereign . 
Between these two dates the Habrons had been heard to threaten to do for Cock if he were not more careful . 
The prisoner did not help himself by an ineffective attempt to prove an alibi . 
The Judge was clearly not impressed by the strength of the case for the prosecution . 
He pointed out to the jury that neither the evidence of identification nor that of the footprint went very far . 
In spite , however , of the summing up the jury convicted William Habron , but recommended him to mercy . 
The Judge without comment sentenced him to death . 
The Manchester Guardian expressed its entire concurrence with the verdict of the jury . 
Few persons , it wrote , will be found to dispute the justice of the conclusions reached . 
However , a few days later it opened its columns to a number of letters protesting against the unsatisfactory nature of the conviction . 
On December a meeting of some forty gentlemen was held , at which it was resolved to petition Mr. Cross , the Home Secretary , to reconsider the sentence . 
Two days before the day of execution Habron was granted a respite , and later his sentence commuted to one of penal servitude for life . 
And so a tragic and irrevocable miscarriage of justice was happily averted . 
The fact that in Habron's case he was the real murderer would seem to have made him the more eager not to miss so unique an experience . 
Accordingly he went from Hull to Manchester , and was present in court during the two days that the trial lasted . 
No sooner had he heard the innocent man condemned to death than he left Manchester for Sheffield now for all he knew a double murderer . 
It is a question whether , on the night of November , Peace met Mrs. Dyson at an inn in one of the suburbs of Sheffield . 
In any case , the next morning , Wednesday , the th , to his mother's surprise Peace walked into her house . 
He said that he had come to Sheffield for the fair . 
The musician was rewarded by drinks . 
It took very little drink to excite Peace . 
There was dancing , the fun grew fast and furious , as the strange musician beat out tune after tune on his fantastic instrument . 
At six o'clock the same evening a thin , grey haired , insignificant looking man in an evident state of unusual excitement called to see the Rev . 
Mr. Newman , Vicar of Ecclesall , near Banner Cross . 
The vicar had asked for proof of these statements . 
These proofs his visitor now produced . 
They consisted of a number of calling cards and photographs , some of them alleged to be in the handwriting of Mrs. Dyson , and showing her intimacy with Peace . 
The man made what purported to be a confession to Mr. Newman . 
Dyson , he said , had become jealous of him , whereupon Peace had suggested to Mrs. Dyson that they should give her husband something to be jealous about . 
Out of this proposal their intimacy had sprung . 
Peace spoke of Mrs. Dyson in terms of forgiveness , but his wrath against Dyson was extreme . 
He complained bitterly that by taking proceedings against him , Dyson had driven him to break up his home and become a fugitive in the land . 
He should follow the Dysons , he said , wherever they might go he believed that they were at that moment intending to take further proceedings against him . 
It was now about a quarter to seven . 
Peace went to Gregory's house , but his friend was not at home . 
The lure of the Dysons was irresistible . 
A little after eight o'clock Peace was watching the house from a passage way that led up to the backs of the houses on the terrace . 
He saw Mrs. Dyson come out of the back door , and go to an outhouse some few yards distant . 
As soon as she opened the door to come out , Mrs. Dyson found herself confronted by Peace , holding his revolver in his hand . 
Speak , he said , or I'll fire . 
Mrs. Dyson in terror went back . 
In the meantime Dyson , hearing the disturbance , came quickly into the yard . 
Peace made for the passage . 
Peace fired once , the shot striking the lintel of the passage doorway . 
Dyson undaunted , still pursued . 
Then Peace , according to his custom , fired a second time , and Dyson fell , shot through the temple . 
Two hours later Dyson was dead . 
After firing the second shot Peace had hurried down the passage into the roadway . 
He stood there hesitating a moment , until the cries of Mrs. Dyson warned him of his danger . 
He crossed the road , climbed a wall , and made his way back to Sheffield . 
There he saw his mother and brother , told them that he had shot Mr. Dyson , and bade them a hasty good bye . 
He then walked to At tercliffe Railway Station , and took a ticket for Beverley . 
Something suspicious in the manner of the booking clerk made him change his place of destination . 
Instead of going to Beverley that night he got out of the train at Normanton and went on to York . 
He spent the remainder of the night in the station yard . 
He took the first train in the morning for Beverley , and from there travelled via Collingham to Hull . 
He went straight to the eating house kept by his wife , and demanded some dinner . 
He had hardly commenced to eat it when he heard two detectives come into the front shop and ask his wife if a man called Charles Peace was lodging with her . 
Mrs. Peace said that that was her husband's name , but that she had not seen him for two months . 
The detectives proposed to search the house . 
Some customers in the shop told them that if they had any business with Mrs. Peace , they ought to go round to the side door . 
So importunate were the officers in Hull that once again during the day Peace had to repeat this experience . 
For some three weeks , however , he contrived to remain in Hull . 
But the hue and cry after him was unremitting . 
There was a price of L on his head , and the following description of him was circulated by the police Charles Peace wanted for murder on the night of the th inst . 
He is thin and slightly built , from fifty five to sixty years of age . 
hair , beard and whiskers . 
He is a picture frame maker . 
He occasionally cleans and repairs clocks and watches and sometimes deals in oleographs , engravings and pictures . 
He has been in penal servitude for burglary in Manchester . 
He has lived in Manchester , Salford , and Liverpool and Hull . 
This description was altered later and Peace's age given as forty six . 
As a matter of fact he was only forty four at this time , but he looked very much older . 
Peace had lost one of his fingers . 
It was to conceal this obvious means of identification that Peace made himself the false arm which he was in the habit of wearing . 
Marked man as he was , Peace felt it dangerous to stay longer in Hull than he could help . 
During the closing days of the year and the beginning of , Peace was perpetually on the move . 
He left Hull for Doncaster , and from there travelled to London . 
On arriving at King's Cross he took the underground railway to Paddington , and from there a train to Bristol . 
At the beginning of January he left Bristol for Bath , and from Bath , in the company of a sergeant of police , travelled by way of Didcot to Oxford . 
The officer had in his custody a young woman charged with stealing L . 
Peace and the sergeant discussed the case during the journey . 
He seemed a smart chap , said Peace in re lating the circumstances , but not smart enough to know me . 
From Oxford he went to Birmingham , where he stayed four or five days , then a week in Derby , and on January th he arrived in Nottingham . 
Here Peace found a convenient lodging at the house of one , Mrs. Adamson , a lady who received stolen goods and on occasion indicated or organised suitable opportunities for acquiring them . 
She lived in a low part of the town known as the Marsh . 
It was at her house that Peace met the woman who was to become his mistress and subsequently betray his identity to the police . 
Her maiden name was Susan Gray . 
She was at this time about thirty five years of age , described as taking in appearance , of a fair complexion , and rather well educated . 
She had led a somewhat chequered married life with a gentleman named Bailey , from whom she continued in receipt of a weekly allowance until she passed under the protection of Peace . 
At first Peace gave himself out to Mrs. Bailey as a hawker , but before long he openly acknowledged his real character as an accomplished burglar . 
With characteristic insistence Peace declared his passion for Mrs. Bailey by threatening to shoot her if she did not become his . 
Anxious friends sent for her to soothe the distracted man . 
Peace had been drowning care with the help of Irish whiskey . 
He asked his pet if she were not glad to see him , to which the lady replied with possible sarcasm Oh , particularly , very , I like you so much . 
Life in Nottingham was varied pleasantly by burglaries carried out with the help of information supplied by Mrs. Adamson . 
Here this hunted murderer , with L reward on his head , took rooms for Mrs. Thompson and himself at the house of a sergeant of police . 
One day Mrs. Peace , who was still keeping her shop in Hull , received a pencilled note saying , I am waiting to see you just up Anlaby Road . 
Peace told them of his whereabouts in the town , but did not disclose to them the fact that his mistress was there also . 
To the police sergeant with whom he lodged , Peace described himself as an agent . 
But a number of sensational and successful burglaries at the houses of Town Councillors and other well to do citizens of Hull revealed the presence in their midst of no ordinary robber . 
Peace had some narrow escapes , but with the help of his revolver , and on one occasion the pusillanimity of a policeman , he succeeded in getting away in safety . 
Here , as the result of further successful exploits , Peace found a reward of L offered for his capture . 
On one occasion the detectives came into the room where Peace and his mistress were in bed . 
After politely expressing his surprise at seeing Mrs. Bailey in such a situation , one of the officers asked Peace his name . 
He gave it as John Ward , and described himself as a hawker of spectacles . 
He refused to get up and dress in the presence of the detectives who were obliging enough to go downstairs and wait his convenience . 
Peace seized the opportunity to slip out of the house and get away to another part of the town . 
From there he sent a note to Mrs. Thompson insisting on her joining him . 
II PEACE IN LONDON Peace's career in London extended over nearly two years , but they were years of copious achievement . 
These were the halcyon days of Peace's enterprise in life . 
So successful did the business prove that at the Christmas of Peace invited his daughter and her betrothed to come from Hull and spend the festive season with him . 
This , in spite of the presence of Mrs. Thompson , they consented to do . 
Peace , in a top hat and grey ulster , showed them the sights of London , always inquiring politely of a policeman if he found himself in any difficulty . 
At the end of the visit Peace gave his consent to his daughter's marriage with Mr. Bolsover , and before parting gave the young couple some excellent advice . 
For more reasons than one Peace was anxious to unite under the same roof Mrs. Peace and Mrs. Thompson . 
These he furnished in style . 
But Greenwich was not to the taste of Mrs. Thompson . 
To gratify her wish , Peace , some time in May , , removed the whole party to a house , No. , East Terrace , Evelina Road , Peckham . 
He paid thirty pounds a year for it , and obtained permission to build a stable for his pony and trap . 
A garden at the back of the house ran down to the Chatham and Dover railway line . 
It was by an entrance at the back that Peace drove his horse and trap into the stable which he had erected in the garden . 
The house was fitted with Venetian blinds . 
Everything confirmed Mr. Thompson's description of himself as a gentleman of independent means with a taste for scientific inventions . 
Socially Mr. Thompson became quite a figure in the neighbourhood . 
Mr. Thompson was generous in giving and punctual in paying . 
His love of birds and animals was remarkable . 
Cats , dogs , rabbits , guinea pigs , canaries , parrots and cockatoos all found hospitality under his roof . 
It was certainly eccentricity in Mr. Thompson that he should wear different coloured wigs and that his dark complexion should suggest the use of walnut juice . 
His love of music was evinced by the number of violins , banjoes , guitars , and other musical instruments that adorned his drawing room . 
Tea and music formed the staple of the evening entertainments which Mr. and Mrs. Thompson would give occasionally to friendly neighbours . 
Not that the pleasures of conversation were neglected wholly in favour of art . 
The host was a voluble and animated talker , his face and body illustrating by appropriate twists and turns the force of his comments . 
The Russo Turkish war , then raging , was a favourite theme of Mr. Thompson's . 
He asked , as we are still asking , what Christianity and civilisation mean by countenancing the horrors of war . 
He considered the British Government in the highest degree guilty in supporting the cruel Turks , a people whose sobriety seemed to him to be their only virtue , against the Christian Russians . 
He was confident that our Ministers would be punished for opposing the only Power which had shown any sympathy with suffering races . 
Not that it must be supposed that family life at No. , East Terrace , was without its jars . 
These were due chiefly to the drunken habits of Mrs. Thompson . 
Peace was willing to overlook his mistress' failing as long as it was confined to the house . 
But Mrs. Thompson had an unfortunate habit of slipping out in an intoxicated condition , and chattering with the neighbours . 
As she was the repository of many a dangerous secret the inconvenience of her habit was serious . 
Peace was not the man to hesitate in the face of danger . 
On these occasions Mrs. Thompson was followed by Peace or his wife , brought back home and soundly beaten . 
Mrs. Thompson herself admitted that with the exception of such punishment as she brought on herself by her inebriety , Peace was always fond of her , and treated her with great kindness . 
Night after night , with few intervals of repose , he would sally forth on a plundering adventure . 
If the job was a distant one , he would take his pony and trap . 
Many dramatic stories are told of his exploits , but they rest for the most part on slender foundation . 
On one occasion , in getting on to a portico , he fell , and was impaled on some railings , fortunately in no vital part . 
His career as a burglar in London lasted from the beginning of the year until October , . 
All the while the police were busily seeking Charles Peace , the murderer of Mr. Dyson . 
Once or twice they came near to capturing him . 
The police never had a shadow of suspicion that Mr. Thompson of Peckham was Charles Peace of Sheffield . 
Peace made the mistake of outstaying his welcome in the neighbourhood of South East London . 
Perhaps he hardly realised the extent to which his fame was spreading . 
During the last three months of Peace's career , Blackheath was agog at the number of successful burglaries committed in the very midst of its peaceful residents . 
The vigilance of the local police was aroused , the officers on night duty were only too anxious to ef fect the capture of the mysterious criminal . 
John's Park , Blackheath , the residence of a Mr. Burness . 
One of them went round to the front of the house and rang the bell , the other waited in the road outside , while Robinson stayed in the garden at the back . 
No sooner had the bell rung than Robinson saw a man come from the dining room window which opened on to the garden , and make quickly down the path . 
The man turned Keep back ! he said , or by God I'll shoot you ! Robinson came on . 
The man fired three shots from a revolver , all of which passed close to the officer's head . 
Robinson made another rush for him , the man fired another shot . 
The constable closed with his would be assassin , and struck him in the face . 
I'll settle you this time , cried the man , and fired a fifth shot , which went through Robinson's arm just above the elbow . 
Immediately after the other two constables came to the help of their colleague , and the struggling desperado was secured . 
Little did the police as they searched their battered and moaning prisoner realise the importance of their capture . 
He was remanded for a week . 
It is dated November , and is signed John Ward . 
Peace was disturbed at the absence of all news from his family . 
Immediately after his arrest , the home in Peckham had been broken up . 
There she went to a house in Hazel Road , occupied by her son in law Bolsover , a working collier . 
Later , Mrs. Peace was arrested and charged with being in possession of stolen property . 
She was taken to London and tried at the Old Bailey before Mr. Commissioner Kerr , but acquitted on the ground of her having acted under the compulsion of her husband . 
It was no doubt to get news of his family that Peace wrote to Brion . 
But the letters are sufficiently ingenious . 
Peace represents himself as a truly penitent sinner who has got himself into a most unfortunate and unexpected mess by giving way to drink . 
The spelling of the letters is exaggeratedly illiterate . 
The honour and profit of putting the police on the right scent were claimed by Mrs. Thompson . 
To her Peace had contrived to get a letter conveyed about the same time that he wrote to Mr. Brion . 
It is addressed to his dearly beloved wife . 
But Peace was leaning on a broken reed . 
Loyalty does not appear to have been Susan Thompson's strong point . 
In her own words she was not of the sentimental sort . 
The traitress Sue , as she is called by chroniclers of the time , had fallen a victim to the wiles of the police . 
Since , after Peace's arrest , she had been in possession of a certain amount of stolen property , it was easier no doubt to persuade her to be frank . 
The police scouted the idea that any revelation of hers had assisted them to identify John Ward with Charles Peace . 
There they found two of the boxes which Mrs. Peace had brought with her from Peckham . 
Besides stolen property , these boxes contained evidence of the identity of Ward with Peace . 
A constable who had known Peace well in Sheffield was sent to Newgate , and taken into the yard where the prisoners awaiting trial were exercising . 
As they passed round , the constable pointed to the fifth man That's Peace , he said , I'd know him anywhere . 
His age was given in the calendar as sixty , though Peace was actually forty six . 
The evidence against the prisoner was clear enough . 
All Mr. Montagu Williams could urge in his defence was that Peace had never intended to kill the officer , merely to frighten him . 
The jury found Peace guilty of attempted murder . 
Asked if he had anything to say why judgment should not be passed upon him , he addressed the Judge . 
I really did not know , he said , that the pistol was loaded , and I hope , my lord , that you will have mercy on me . 
I feel that I have disgraced myself , I am not fit either to live or die . 
I am not prepared to meet my God , but still I feel that my career has been made to appear much worse than it really is . 
Oh , my lord , do have mercy on me do give me one chance of repenting and of preparing to meet my God . 
Do , my lord , have mercy on me and I assure you that you shall never repent it . 
I pray , and beseech you to have mercy upon me . 
Peace's assumption of pitiable senility , sustained throughout the trial , though it imposed on Sir Henry Hawkins , failed to melt his heart . 
He did not consider it necessary , he said , to make an inquiry into Peace's antecedents he was a desperate burglar , and there was an end of the matter . 
Notwithstanding his age , Mr. Justice Hawkins felt it his duty to sentence him to penal servitude for life . 
Not that Peace was fated to serve any great part of his sentence . 
With as little delay as possible he was to be called on to answer to the murder of Arthur Dyson . 
The buxom widow of the murdered man had been found in America , whither she had returned after her husband's death . 
She was quite ready to come to England to give evidence against her husband's murderer . 
On January , , Peace was taken from Pentonville prison , where he was serving his sentence , and conveyed by an early morning train to Sheffield . 
There at the Town Hall he appeared before the stipendiary magistrate , and was charged with the murder of Arthur Dyson . 
When he saw Mrs. Dyson enter the witness box and tell her story of the crime , he must have realised that his case was desperate . 
Her cross examination was adjourned to the next hearing , and Peace was taken back to London . 
On the nd , the day of the second hearing in Sheffield , an enormous crowd had assembled outside the Town Hall . 
What had happened was this . 
Peace had left King's Cross by the . 
train that morning , due to arrive at Sheffield at . 
From the very commencement of the journey he had been wilful and troublesome . 
He kept making excuses for leaving the carriage whenever the train stopped . 
Just after the train passed Worksop , Peace asked for one of the bags . 
When the window was lowered to allow the bag to be thrown away , Peace with lightning agility took a flying leap through it . 
One of the warders caught him by the left foot . 
Peace , hanging from the carriage , grasped the footboard with his hands and kept kicking the warder as hard as he could with his right foot . 
The other warder , unable to get to the window to help his colleague , was making vain efforts to stop the train by pulling the communication cord . 
For two miles the train ran on , Peace struggling desperately to escape . 
At last he succeeded in kicking off his left shoe , and dropped on to the line . 
The train ran on another mile until , with the assistance of some gentlemen in other carriages , the warders were able to get it pulled up . 
A slow train from Sheffield stopped to pick up the injured man . 
As he was lifted into the guard's van , he asked them to cover him up as he was cold . 
On arriving at Sheffield , Peace was taken to the Police Station and there made as comfortable as possible in one of the cells . 
All right , said Peace , give me a minute , after which he swallowed contentedly a couple of gills of the genial spirit . 
Peace's daring feat was not , according to his own account , a mere attempt to escape from the clutches of the law it was noble and Roman in its purpose . 
I took a look at Darnall as I went down and as I went back , and after I was put in my cell , I thought it all over . 
I felt that I could not get away , and then I made up my mind to kill myself . 
I got two bits of paper and pricked on them the words , Bury me at Darnall . 
My hope was that , when I jumped from the train I should be cut to pieces under the wheels . 
and there would have been an inquest over me . 
As soon as the inquest was over you would have claimed my body , found the pieces of paper , and then you would have buried me at Darnall . 
This statement of Peace is no doubt in the main correct . 
But such a chance was remote . 
Peace had faced boldly the possibility of a dreadful death . 
It was at Darnall that he had spent some months of comparative calm in his tempestuous career , and it was at Darnall that he had first met Mrs. Dyson . 
Another and more practical motive that may have urged Peace to attempt to injure seriously , if not kill himself , was the hope of thereby delaying his trial . 
If the magisterial investigation in Sheffield were completed before the end of January , Peace could be committed for trial to the ensuing Leeds Assizes which commenced in the first week in February . 
If he were injured too seriously , this would not be possible . 
Here again he was doomed to disappointment . 
Peace recovered so well from the results of his adventure on the railway that the doctor pronounced him fit to appear for his second examination before the magistrate on January . 
To avoid excitement , both on the part of the prisoner and the public , the court sat in one of the corridors of the Town Hall . 
The scene is described as dismal , dark and cheerless . 
The proceedings took place by candlelight , and Peace , who was seated in an armchair , complained frequently of the cold . 
At other times he moaned and groaned and protested against the injustice with which he was being treated . 
But the absence of any audience rather dashed the effect of his laments . 
The most interesting part of the proceedings was the cross examination of Mrs. Dyson by Mr. Clegg , the prisoner's solicitor . 
In the first part of his task Mr. Clegg met with some success . 
She could not to her knowledge recollect having told the landlord of a public house to charge her drink to Peace . 
A great deal of Mrs. Dyson's cross examination turned on a bundle of letters that had been found near the scene of Dyson's murder on the morning following the crime . 
These letters consisted for the most part of notes , written in pencil on scraps of paper , purporting to have been sent from Mrs. Dyson to Peace . 
This bundle of letters contained also the card which Dyson had thrown into Peace's garden requesting him not to interfere with his family . 
According to the theory of the defence , these letters had been written by Mrs. Dyson to Peace , and went to prove the intimacy of their relations . 
At the inquest after her husband's murder , Mrs. Dyson had been questioned by the coroner about these letters . 
She denied that she had ever written to Peace in fact , she said , she never did write . 
It was stated that Dyson himself had seen the letters , and declared them to be forgeries written by Peace or members of his family for the purpose of annoyance . 
Neverthe less , before the Sheffield magistrate Mr. Clegg thought it his duty to cross examine Mrs. Dyson closely as to their authorship . 
Love to all ! Mrs. Dyson refused to admit any likeness between what she had written and the handwriting of the letter in ques tion . 
Another passage ran Will see you as soon as I possibly can . 
I think it would be easier after you move he won't watch so . 
The r g fits the little finger . 
Many thanks and love to Jennie . 
I will tell you what I thought of when I see you about arranging matters . 
In answer to Mr. Clegg , Mrs. Dyson admitted that Peace had given her a ring , which she had worn for a short time on her little finger . 
Hope your foot is better . 
I went to Sheffield yesterday , but I could not see you anywhere . 
Were you out ? Love to Jane . 
Mrs. Dyson denied that she had known of an accident which Peace had had to his foot at this time . 
She was equally firm in denying that anything in the nature of a struggle had taken place between Peace and her husband previous to his murder . 
At the conclusion of Mrs. Dyson's evidence the prisoner was committed to take his trial at the Leeds Assizes , which commenced the week following . 
Peace , who had groaned and moaned and constantly interrupted the proceedings , protested his innocence , and complained that his witnesses had not been called . 
There is an appearance almost of precipitation in the haste with which Peace was bustled to his doom . 
After his committal he was taken to Wakefield Prison , and a few days later to Armley Jail , there to await his trial . 
This began on February , and lasted one day . 
Mr. Justice Lopes , who had tried vainly to persuade the Manchester Grand Jury to throw out the bill in the case of the brothers Habron , was the presiding judge . 
Mr. Campbell Foster , Q. C. , led for the prosecution . 
The fact that property seemed to be no more sacred to him than life aggravated in a singular degree the resentment of a commercial people . 
The first witness called by the prosecution was Mrs. Dyson . 
But he was not very successful . 
He put it to Mrs. Dyson that before the magistrate at Sheffield she had said I can't say my husband did not get hold of the prisoner . 
Put in the little word try , please , answered Mrs. Dyson . 
In spite of Mr. Lockwood's questions , she maintained that , though her husband may have attempted to get hold of Peace , he did not succeed in doing so . 
As she was the only witness to the shooting there was no one to contradict her statement . 
Mr. Lockwood fared better when he came to deal with the relations of Mrs. Dyson with Peace previous to the crime . 
Finally he drove her to say that she could not remember when she came to Darnall , whether in , , , or . 
She admitted that she had accepted a ring from Peace , but could not remember whether she had shown it to her husband . 
She had been perhaps twice with Peace to the Marquis of Waterford public house , and once to the Star Music Hall . 
She could not swear one way or the other whether she had charged to Peace's account drink consumed by her at an inn in Darnall called the Half way House . 
On the day before her husband's murder , Mrs. Dyson was at the Stag Hotel at Sharrow with a little boy belonging to a neighbour . 
A man followed her in and sat beside her , and afterwards followed her out . 
She denied that this man had said to her that he would come and see her the next night . 
You may not have known you were inebriated ? suggested Mr. Lockwood . 
In commenting on the trial the following day , the Times stigmatised as feeble the prevarications by which Mrs. Dyson tried to explain away her intimacy with Peace . 
A minute later she heard a scream . 
She opened her back door and saw Dyson standing by his own . 
She told him to go to his wife . 
She then went back into her house , and almost directly after heard two shots , followed by another scream , but no sound as of any scuffling . 
Another witness was a labourer named Brassington . 
He was standing under a gas lamp , and it was a bright moonlight night . 
The man asked him if he knew of any strange people who had come to live in the neighbourhood . 
Brassington answered that he did not . 
The man then produced a bundle of letters which he asked Brassington to read . 
But Brassington declined , as reading was not one of his accomplishments . 
Brassington swore positively that Peace was the stranger who had accosted him that night , and Mr. Lockwood failed to shake him in his evidence . 
Evidence was then given as to threats uttered by Peace against the Dysons in the July of , and as to his arrest at Blackheath in the October of . 
Mr. Campbell Foster wanted to put in as evidence the card that Dyson had flung into Peace's garden at Darnall requesting him not to interfere with his family . 
This card had been found among the bundle of letters dropped by Peace near the scene of the murder . 
Mr. Lockwood objected to the admission of the card unless all the letters were admitted at the same time . 
Mr. Lockwood in his address to the jury did his best to persuade them that the death of Dyson was the accidental result of a struggle between Peace and himself . 
Both times that his counsel put forward this curious plea , Peace raised his eyes to heaven and exclaimed I am not fit to die . 
Mr. Justice Lopes in summing up described as an absolute surmise the theory of the accidental discharge of the pistol . 
He asked the jury to take Peace's revolver in their hands and try the trigger , so as to see for themselves whether it was likely to go off accidentally or not . 
He said that Mr. Lockwood had been perfectly justified in his attempt to discredit the evidence of Mrs. Dyson , but the case did not rest on her evidence alone . 
In her evidence as to the threats uttered by Peace in July , , Mrs. Dyson was corroborated by three other witnesses . 
In the Judge's opinion it was clearly proved that no struggle or scuffle had taken place before the murder . 
If the defence , he concluded , rested on no solid founda tion , then the jury must do their duty to the community at large and by the oath they had sworn . 
It was a quarter past seven when the jury retired . 
Ten minutes later they came back into court with a verdict of guilty . 
Asked if he had anything to say , Peace in a faint voice replied , It is no use my saying anything . 
Peace accepted his fate with composure . 
Before we proceed to describe the last days of Peace on earth , let us finish with the two women who had succeeded Mrs. Peace in his ardent affections . 
An Irishwoman by birth , she said that she had gone to America when she was fifteen years old . 
There she met and married Dyson , a civil engineer on the Atlantic and Great Western Railway . 
Theirs was a rough and arduous life . 
But Mrs. Dyson was thoroughly happy in driving her husband about in a buggy among bears and creeks . 
However , Mr. Dyson's health broke down , and he was obliged to return to England . 
It was at Darnall that the fatal acquaintance with Peace began . 
Living next door but one to the Dysons , Peace took the opportunity of introducing himself , and Mr. Dyson being a gentleman , took polite notice of his advances . 
He became a constant visitor at the house . 
But after a time Peace began to show that he was not the gentleman Mr. Dyson was . 
He disgusted the latter by offering to show him improper pictures and the sights of the town of Sheffield . 
The Dysons tried to shake off the unwelcome acquaintance , but that was easier said than done . 
By this time Peace had set his heart on making Mrs. Dyson leave her husband . 
He of fered her a sealskin jacket , yards of silk , a gold watch . 
But Peace would listen to no refusal , however decided its tone . 
Dyson threw over the card into Peace's garden . 
This only served to aggravate his determination to possess himself of the wife . 
He would listen at keyholes , leer in at the window , and follow Mrs. Dyson wherever she went . 
When she was photographed at the fair , she found that Peace had stood behind her chair and by that means got himself included in the picture . 
At times he had threatened her with a revolver . 
On one occasion when he was more insulting than usual , Mrs. Dyson forgot her fear of him and gave him a thrashing . 
Peace threatened to make her so that neither man nor woman should look at her , and then he would have her all to himself . 
It was with some purpose of this kind , Mrs. Dyson suggested , that Peace stole a photograph of herself out of a locket , intending to make some improper use of it . 
At last , in desperation , the Dysons moved to Banner Cross . 
From the day of their arrival there until the murder , Mrs. Dyson never saw Peace . 
She denied altogether having been in his company the night before the murder . 
The letters were bare forgeries , written by Peace or members of his family to get her into their power . 
Against the advice of all her friends Mrs. Dyson had come back from America to give evidence against Peace . 
My opinion is , she said , that Peace is a perfect demon not a man . 
I am told that since he has been sentenced to death he has become a changed character . 
The place to which the wicked go is not bad enough for him . 
I think its occupants , bad as they might be , are too good to be where he is . 
No matter where he goes , I am satis fied that there will be hell . 
Not even a Shakespeare could adequately paint such a man as he has been . 
My lifelong regret will be that I ever knew him . 
With these few earnest words Mrs. Dyson quitted the shores of England , hardly clearing up the mystery of her actual relations with Peace . 
A woman with whom Mrs. Dyson very much resented finding herself classed inebriety would appear to have been their only common weakness was Mrs. Thompson , the traitress Sue . 
He asked her to sell some goods which he had left with her in order to raise money for his defence . 
The traitress replied on January that she had already sold everything and shared the proceeds with Mrs. Peace . 
You are doing me great injustice , she wrote , by saying that I have been out to work' with you . 
Do not die with such a base falsehood on your conscience , for you know I am young and have my living and character to redeem . 
I pity you and myself to think we should have met . 
After his condemnation Mrs. Thompson made repeated efforts to see Peace , coming to Leeds for the purpose . 
Peace wrote a letter on February to his poor Sue , asking her to come to the prison . 
He threw himself into the work of atonement with the same uncompromising zeal and energy that he had displayed as a burglar . 
By his death a truly welcome and effective re cruit was lost to the ranks of the contrite and converted sinners . 
In obedience to the wishes of his family , Peace had refrained from seeing Sue Thompson . 
These were transmitted to Sue by Mr. Brion . 
After Peace's condemnation Mr. Brion visited him in Armley Jail . 
His purpose in doing so was to wring from his co inventor an admission that the inventions which they had patented together were his work alone . 
Peace denied this , but offered to sell his share for L . 
Brion refused the offer , and persisted in his assertion that Peace had got his name attached to the patents by undue influence , whatever that might mean . 
Peace , after wres tling with the spirit , gave way . 
Very well , my friend , he said , let it be as you say . 
I have not cheated you , Heaven knows . 
Thus , as has often happened in this sad world , was disreputable genius exploited once again by smug mediocrity . 
Peace had one act of atonement to discharge more urgent than displaying Christian forbearance towards ignoble associates . 
That was the righting of William Habron , who was now serving the third year of his life sentence for the murder of Constable Cock at Whalley Range . 
Peace sent for the Governor of the jail a few days before his execution and obtained from him the materials necessary for drawing up a plan . 
Peace was quite an adept at making plans he had already made an excellent one of the scene of Dyson's murder . 
In the confession he described how , some days before the burglary , he had , according to his custom , spotted the house at Whalley Range . 
In order to do this he always dressed himself respectably , because he had found that the police never suspected anyone who wore good clothes . 
On the night of the crime he passed two policemen on the road to the house . 
With his well known agility Peace climbed on to the wall , and dropped on to the other side , only to find himself almost in the arms of the second policeman . 
Peace warned the officer to stand back and fired his revolver wide of him . 
But , as Peace said , these Manchester policemen are a very obstinate lot . 
The constable took out his truncheon . 
Peace fired again and killed him . 
Soon after the murderer saw in the newspapers that two men had been arrested for the crime . 
This greatly interested me , said Peace . 
I always had a liking to be present at trials , as the public no doubt know by this time . 
So he went to Manchester Assizes and saw William Habron sentenced to death . 
Nor did Peace claim to have anything of the hero about him . 
Lion hearted I've lived , And when my time comes Lion hearted I'll die . 
Though fond of repeating this piece of doggerel , Peace would have been the last man to have attributed to himself all those qualities associated symbolically with the lion . 
A few days before his execution Peace was visited in his prison by Mr. Littlewood , the Vicar of Darnall . 
Mr. Littlewood had known Peace a few years before , when he had been chaplain at Wakefield Prison . 
Mr. Littlewood assured Peace that there was at any rate one person in the world who had deep sympathy with him , and that was himself . 
He said that he preferred to be hanged to lingering out his life in penal servitude , that he was grieved and repentant for his past life . 
If I could undo , or make amends for anything I have done , I would suffer my body as I now stand to be cut in pieces inch by inch . 
I call my God to witness that all I am saying and wish to say shall be the truth the whole truth nothing but the truth . 
Peace was determined to test the extent of the reverend gentleman's faith in his asseverations . 
Now , sir , he said , I understand that you still have the impression that I stole the clock from your day schools . 
Mr. Littlewood admitted that such was his impression . 
At the time your clock was stolen I had reason for suspecting that it was taken by some colliers whom I knew . 
Mr. Littlewood thought that Peace was going to give him the name of the colliers . 
But that was not Peace's way . 
At last Mr. Littlewood said , Peace , I am convinced that you did not take the clock . 
I cannot believe that you dare deny it now in your position , if you really did . 
Once more Peace burst into tears , and was unable for some time to speak . 
Having recovered his self possession , Peace turned to the serious business of confession . 
He dealt first with the murder of Dyson . 
He maintained that his relations with Mrs. Dyson had been of an intimate character . 
He intercepted Mrs. Dyson as she crossed the yard . 
Instead of listening to him quietly Mrs. Dyson became violent and threatening in her language . 
Peace took out his revolver , and , holding it close to her head , warned her that he was not to be trifled with . 
She refused to be warned . 
Dyson , hearing the loud voices , came out of his house . 
Peace tried to get away down the passage into Banner Cross Road , but Dyson followed and caught hold of him . 
In the struggle Peace fired one barrel of his revolver wide . 
Dyson seized the hand in which Peace was holding the weapon . 
Then I knew , said Peace , I had not a moment to spare . 
I made a desperate effort , wrenched the arm from him and fired again . 
All that was in my head at the time was to get away . 
It is to be remembered that Peace and Mrs. Dyson were the sole witnesses of what took place that night between the two men . 
Peace then repeated to Mr. Littlewood his confession of the killing of Constable Cock , and his desire that Habron should be set free . 
As to this part of his career Peace indulged in some general reflections . 
My great mistake , sir , he said , and I can see it now as my end approaches , has been this in all my career I have used ball cartridge . 
I can see now that in using ball cartridge I did wrong I ought to have used blank cartridge then I would not have taken life . 
Peace said that he hoped he would meet his death like a hero . 
I do not say this in any kind of bravado . 
I do not mean such a hero as some persons will understand when they read this . 
I mean such a hero as my God might wish me to be . 
I am deeply grieved for all I have done , and would atone for it to the utmost of my power . 
But in spite of much attempted persuasion by the reverend gentleman Peace explained that he was a man and meant to be a man to the end . 
William Habron was subsequently given a free pardon and L by way of compensation . 
He wished his career held up to them as a beacon , in order that all who saw might avoid his example , and so his death be of some service to society . 
Before Mr. Littlewood left , Peace asked him to hear him pray . 
Having requested the warders to kneel down , Peace began a prayer that lasted twenty minutes . 
He prayed for himself , his family , his victims , Mr. Littlewood , society generally , and all classes of the community . 
Mr. Littlewood described the prayer as earnest , fervent and fluent . 
At the end Peace asked Mr. Littlewood if he ought to see Mrs. Dyson and beg her forgiveness for having killed her husband . 
Mr. Littlewood , believing er roneously that Mrs. Dyson had already left the country , told Peace that he should direct all his attention to asking forgiveness of his Maker . 
At the close of their interview Peace was lifted into bed and , turning his face to the wall , wept . 
Tuesday , February , was the day fixed for the , execution of Peace . 
As the time drew near , the convict's confidence in ultimate salvation increased . 
Potter of Sheffield had declared in a sermon that all hope of Peace's salvation was gone for ever . 
Peace replied curtly , Well , Dr . 
Potter may think so , but I don't . 
Though his health had improved , Peace was still very feeble in body . 
But his soul was hopeful and undismayed . 
On the Saturday before his death his brother and sister in law , a nephew and niece visited him for the last time . 
He spoke with some emotion of his approaching end . 
He asked his relatives to plant a flower on a certain grave in a cemetery in Sheffield on the day of his execution . 
He was very weak , he said , but hoped he should have strength enough to walk to the scaffold . 
He sent messages to friends and warnings to avoid gambling and drinking . 
He begged his brother to change his manner of life and become religious . 
His good counsel was not apparently very well received . 
Peace's visitors took a depressing view of their relative's condition . 
He asked his visitors to restrain themselves from displays of emotion , as he felt very happy and did not wish to be disturbed . 
He advised them to sell or exhibit for money certain works of art of his own devising . 
Among them was a design in paper for a monument to be placed over his grave . 
The design is elaborate but well and ingeniously executed in the opinion of Frith , the painter , it showed the true feeling of an artist . 
It is somewhat in the style of the Albert Memorial , and figures of angels are prominent in the scheme . 
The whole conception is typical of the artist's sanguine and confident assurance of his ultimate destiny . 
A model boat and a fiddle made out of a hollow bamboo cane he wished also to be made the means of raising money . 
He was describing with some detail the ceremony of his approaching death and burial when he was interrupted by a sound of hammering . 
Peace listened for a moment and then said , That's a noise that would make some men fall on the floor . 
They are working at my own scaffold . 
A warder said that he was mistaken . 
But the noise , he said , did not disturb him in the least , as he was quite prepared to meet his fate . 
He would like to have seen his grave and coffin he knew that his body would be treated with scant ceremony after his death . 
But what of that ? By that time his soul would be in Heaven . 
The time had come to say good bye for the last time . 
Peace asked his weeping relatives whether they had anything more that they wished to ask him . 
Mrs. Peace reminded him that he had promised to pray with them at the last . 
Peace , ever ready , knelt with them and prayed for half an hour . 
He then shook hands with them , prayed for and blessed each one singly , and himself gave way to tears as they left his presence . 
To his wife as she departed Peace gave a funeral card of his own designing . 
It ran In Memory of Charles Peace Who was executed in Armley Prison Tuesday February th , Aged For that I don but never Intended . 
The same day there arrived in the prison one who in his own trade had something of the personality and assurance of the culprit he was to execute . 
I am doing God's work , said Marwood , according to the divine command and the law of the British Crown . 
I do it simply as a matter of duty and as a Christian . 
I sleep as soundly as a child and am never disturbed by phantoms . 
Where there is guilt there is bad sleeping , but I am conscious that I try to live a blameless life . 
and work in my shoeshop near the church day after day until such time as I am required elsewhere . 
It would have been better for those I executed if they had preferred industry to idleness . 
The Horncastle shoemaker was saving , businesslike , pious and thoughtful . 
Like Peace , he had interests outside his ordinary profession . 
He had at one time propounded a scheme for the abolition of the National Debt , a man clearly determined to benefit his fellowmen in some way or other . 
A predilection for gin would seem to have been his only concession to the ordinary weakness of humanity . 
The day of February the th broke bitterly cold . 
Like Charles I. before him , Peace feared lest the extreme cold should make him appear to tremble on the scaffold . 
He had slept calmly till six o'clock in the morning . 
A great part of the two hours before the coming of the hangman Peace spent in letter writing . 
He wrote two letters to his wife , in one of which he copied out some verses he had written in Woking Prison on the death of their little boy John . 
In the second he expressed his satisfaction that he was to die now and not linger twenty years in prison . 
Peace ate a hearty breakfast and awaited the coming of the executioner with calm . 
He had been troubled with an inconvenient cough the night before . 
I wonder , he said to one of his warders , if Marwood could cure this cough of mine . 
I hope you will not punish me . 
I hope you will do your work quickly , he said to Marwood . 
You shall not suffer pain from my hand , replied that worthy . 
God bless you , exclaimed Peace , I hope to meet you all in heaven . 
I am thankful to say my sins are all forgiven . 
Firmly and fearlessly Peace submitted himself to the necessary preparations . 
For one moment he faltered as the gallows came in sight , but recovered himself quickly . 
No one gainsaid him , and he thus addressed the reporters You gentlemen reporters , I wish you to notice the few words I am going to say . 
You know what my life has been . 
I do not think I have any enemies , but if there are any who would be so , I wish them well . 
Gentlemen , all and all , I wish them to come to the Kingdom of Heaven when they die , as I am going to die . 
He asked a blessing on the officials of the prison and , in conclusion , sent his last wishes and respects to his dear children and their mother . 
I hope , he said , no one will disgrace them by taunting them or jeering them on my account , but to have mercy upon them . 
God bless you , my dear children . 
Good bye , and Heaven bless you . 
But this time his request was not compiled with . 
He died instantaneously and was buried in Armley Jail . 
Had Peace flourished in instead of , his end might have been honourable instead of dishonourable . 
The war of to day has no doubt saved many a man from a criminal career by turning to worthy account qualities which , dangerous in crime , are useful in war . 
Absolute fearlessness , agility , resource , cunning and determination all these are admirable qualities in the soldier and all these Charles Peace possessed in a signal degree . 
But fate denied him opportunity , he became a burglar and died on the scaffold . 
Years of prison life failed , as they did in those days , to make any impression for good on one resolute in whatever way he chose to go . 
Peace was a born fighter . 
Peace maintained to the last that he had never intended to kill Dyson . 
This statement ex detective Parrock believed , and that the fatal shot was fired over Peace's shoulder as he was making off . 
Though habitually sober , Peace was made intoxicated now and then by the drink , stood him by those whom he used to amuse with his musical tricks and antics in public houses . 
At such times he would get fuddled and quarrelsome . 
He was in such a frame of mind on the evening of Dyson's murder . 
His visit to the Vicar of Ecclesall brought him little comfort or consolation . 
It was in this unsatisfactory frame of mind that he went to Dyson's house . 
This much the ex detective would urge in his favour . 
To his neighbours he was an awe inspiring but kind and sympathetic man . 
If you want my true opinion of him , says Detective Parrock , he was a burglar to the backbone but not a murderer at heart . 
He deserved the fate that came to him as little as any who in modern times have met with a like one . 
Those who are in the fighting line are always the most generous about their adversaries . 
Parrock as a potential target for Peace's revolver , may have erred on the side of generosity , but there is some truth in what he says . 
As Peace himself admitted , his life had been base . 
He was well aware that he had misused such gifts as nature had bestowed on him . 
In this respect Charles Peace reminds us irresistibly of our Angevin kings . 
There is only one criminal who vies with Charley Peace in that genial popular regard which makes Charles Charley and John Jack , and that is Jack Sheppard . 
What Jack was to the eighteenth century , that Charley was to the nineteenth . 
And each one is in a sense typical of his period . 
Lecky has said that the eighteenth century is richer than any other in the romance of crime . 
I think it may fairly be said that in the nineteenth century the romance of crime ceased to be . 
Sheppard is typical of all this . 
Jack Sheppard has the good humoured carelessness of that most engaging of all eighteenth century malefactors , Deacon Brodie . 
It is quite otherwise with Charley Peace . 
There is little enough gay or debonair about him . 
Compared with Sheppard , Peace is as drab as the surroundings of mid Victorian crime are drab compared with the picturesqueness of eighteenth century England . 
Crime in the nineteenth century becomes more scientific in its methods and in its detection also . 
The revolver places a more hasty , less decorous weapon than the old fashioned pistol in the hands of the determined burglar . 
The literature of crime , such as it is , becomes vulgar and prosaic . 
Peace has no charm about him , no gaiety , but he has the virtues of his defects . 
Sheppard is a slave to his women , Edgeworth Bess and Mrs. Maggot Mrs. Peace and Sue Thompson are the slaves of Peace . 
Sheppard loves to stroll openly about the London streets in his fine suit of black , his ruffled shirt and his silver hilted sword . 
Peace lies concealed at Peckham beneath the homely disguise of old Mr. Thompson . 
Sheppard is an imp , Peace a goblin . 
There are many more complete villains than the ordinary criminal , who contrive to go through life without offending against the law . 
Crime has been happily defined by a recent and most able investigator into the character of the criminal as an unusual act committed by a perfectly normal person . 
The English Convict , a statistical study , by Charles Goring , M. D. His Majesty's Stationery Office , . 
Murderers at least those executed for their crimes have not for obvious reasons been made the subject of close scientific observation . 
Their mental capacity would in all probability be found to be rather higher than that of less ambitious criminals . 
For a man of forty seven he had aged remarkably in appearance . 
That is probably to be accounted for by mental worry . 
But in all other respects Charles Peace would seem to have been physically fit . 
In intellectual capacity he was undoubtedly above the average of the ordinary criminal . 
The facts of his career , his natural gifts , speak for themselves . 
Ordinary crime for the most part would appear to be little better than the last resort of the intellectually defective , and a poor game at that . 
The only interesting criminals are those worthy of something better . 
Peace was one of these . 
If his life may be said to point a moral , it is the very simple one that crime is no career for a man of brains . 
The Career of Robert Butler There is a report of Butler's trial published in Dunedin . 
It gives in full the speeches and the cross examination of the witnesses , but not in all cases the evidence in chief . 
By the kindness of a friend in New Zealand I obtained a copy of the depositions taken before the magistrate with this I have been able to supplement the report of the trial . 
A collection of newspaper cuttings furnished me with the details of the rest of Butler's career . 
It was about eight o'clock , the moon shining brightly . 
Nearing Toowong , Mr. Munday saw a middle aged man , bearded and wearing a white overcoat , step out into the moonlight from under the shadow of a tree . 
As Mr. Munday advanced , the man in the white coat stood directly in his way . 
Out with all you have , and quick about it , he said . 
Instead of complying with this peremptory summons , Mr. Munday attempted to close with him . 
The man drew back quickly , whipped out a revolver , fired , and made off as fast as he could . 
The bullet , after passing through Mr. Munday's left arm , had lodged in the stomach . 
The unfortunate gentleman was taken to a neighbouring hospital where , within a few hours , he was dead . 
In the meantime a vigorous search was made for his assailant . 
Late the same night Constable Hennessy , riding a bicycle , saw a man in a white coat who seemed to answer to the description of the assassin . 
He dismounted , walked up to him and asked him for a match . 
The man put his hand inside his coat . 
What have you got there ? asked the constable . 
I'll soon show you , replied the man in the white coat , producing suddenly a large revolver . 
But Hennessy was too quick for him . 
Landing him one under the jaw , he sent him to the ground and , after a sharp struggle , secured him . 
The man taken by Hennessy gave the name of James Wharton , and as James Wharton he was hanged at Brisbane . 
Both men were cynics in their way and viewed their fellow men with a measure of contempt . 
Butler was an intellectual , inferior as a craftsman to Peace , the essentially practical , unread , naturally gifted artist . 
Butler was a man of books . 
He had been schoolmaster , journalist . 
He had studied the lives of great men , and as a criminal , had devoted especial attention to those of Frederick the Great and Napoleon . 
Butler's defence in the Dunedin murder trial was a feat of skill quite beyond the power of Peace . 
Peace was a religious man after the fashion of the mediaeval tyrant , Butler an infidel . 
Peace , dragged into the light of a court of justice , cut a sorry figure here Butler shone . 
Peace escaped a conviction for murder by letting another suffer in his place Butler escaped a similar experience by the sheer ingenuity of his defence . 
Peace had the modesty and reticence of the sincere artist Butler the loquacious vanity of the literary or forensic coxcomb . 
Butler was of the true Prussian mould . 
In crime , he would say , as in war , no half measures . 
Let us follow the example of our rulers whose orders in war run , Kill , burn and sink , and what you cannot carry away , destroy . 
Here is the gospel of frightfulness applied almost prophetically to crime . 
To Butler murder is a principle of warfare to Peace it was never more than a desperate resort or an act the outcome of ungovernable passion . 
Ireland can claim the honour of Butler's birth . 
It took place at Kilkenny about . 
Of the sixteen years he passed in Victoria he spent thirteen in prison , first for stealing , then in steady progression for highway robbery and burglary . 
Side by side with the practical and efficient education in crime furnished by the Victorian prisons of that day , Butler availed himself of the opportunity to educate his mind . 
It was during this period that he found inspiration and encouragement in the study of the lives of Frederick and Napoleon , besides acquiring a knowledge of music and shorthand . 
When in Butler quitted Australia for New Zealand , he was sufficiently accomplished to obtain employment as a schoolmaster . 
At Cromwell , Otago , under the name of C. J. Donelly , Esq . 
The simpler principles of these branches of learning were to be rendered intelligible , and a firm foundation laid for the acquirement of future knowledge . 
Unfortunately a suspicion of theft on Butler's part cut short the fulfilment of this really splendid programme , and Butler left Cromwell hurriedly for the ampler field of Dunedin . 
There , less than a fortnight after his arrivel sic , he was sentenced to four years' hard labour for several burglaries committed in and about that city . 
On the th of February , , Butler was released from prison . 
A detective of the name of Bain tried to find him employment . 
Butler wished to adopt a literary career . 
He acted as a reporter on the Dunedin Evening Star , and gave satisfaction to the editor of that newspaper . 
An attempt to do some original work , in the shape of Prison Sketches , for another newspaper , was less successful . 
Bain had arranged for the publication of the articles in the Sunday Advertiser , but when the time came to deliver his manuscript , Butler failed to appear . 
Bain , whose duty it was to keep an eye on Butler , found him in the street looking wild and haggard . 
You speak very plainly , said Butler . 
Yes , and what is more , I mean what I say , replied Bain . 
Butler justified Bain's candour by saying that if he broke out again , he would be worse than the most savage tiger ever let loose on the community . 
As a means of obviating such an outbreak , Butler suggested that , intellectual employment having failed , some form of manual labour should be found him . 
Bain complied with Butler's request , and got him a job at levelling reclaimed ground in the neighbourhood of Dunedin . 
On Wednesday , March , Butler started work , but after three hours of it relinquished the effort . 
Bain saw Butler again in Dunedin on the evening of Saturday , March , and made an appointment to meet him at half past eight that night . 
Butler did not keep the appointment . 
Bain searched the town for him , but he was nowhere to be found . 
About the same time Butler had some talk with another member of the Dunedin police force , Inspector Mallard . 
They discussed the crimes of Charles Peace and other notable artists of that kind . 
The house had been set on fire , and burned to the ground . 
On the morning of the following day , Sunday , the th , Dunedin was horrified by the discovery of a far more terrible crime , tigerish certainly in its apparent ferocity . 
Dewar was a butcher by trade , a young man , some eighteen months married , and father of a baby girl . 
Robb , on seeing smoke coming from Dewar's house , woke his son , who was a member of the fire brigade . 
The latter got up , crossed the street , and going round to the back door , which he found wide open , entered the house . 
As he went along the passage that separated the two front rooms , a bedroom and sitting room , he called to the inmates to get up . 
He received no answer , but as he neared the bedroom he heard a gurgling sound . 
Crawling on his hands and knees he reached the bedroom door , and two feet inside it his right hand touched something . 
It was the body of a woman she was still alive , but in a dying condition . 
Robb dragged her across the passage into the sitting room . 
He got some water , and extin guished the fire in the bedroom . 
On the bed lay the body of Dewar . 
To all appearances he had been killed in his sleep . 
By his side was the body of the baby , suffocated by the smoke . 
Near the bed was an axe belonging to Dewar , stained with blood . 
It was with this weapon , apparently , that Mr. and Mrs. Dewar had been attacked . 
Under the bed was a candlestick belonging also to the Dewars , which had been used by the murderer in setting fire to the bed . 
The front window of the sitting room was open , there were marks of boot nails on the sill , and on the grass in front of the window a knife was found . 
As far as was known , Mr. and Mrs. Dewar were a perfectly happy and united couple . 
Dewar had been last seen alive about ten o'clock on the Saturday night getting off a car near his home . 
At eleven a neighbour had noticed a light in the Dewars' house . 
About five o'clock on the Sunday morning another neighbour had been aroused from his sleep by the sound as of something falling heavily . 
It was a wild and boisterous night . 
Thinking the noise might be the slamming of his stable door , he got up and went out to see that it was secure . 
He then noticed that a light was burning in the bedroom window of the Dewars' cottage . 
Nothing more was known of what had occurred that morning until at half past six Robb saw the smoke coming from Dewars' house . 
Mrs. Dewar , who alone could have told something , never recovered consciousness and died on the day following the crime . 
Three considerable wounds sufficient to cause death had been inflicted on the unfortunate woman's head , and five of a similar character on that of her husband . 
Butler had stayed in the hotel all Thursday and slept there that night . 
The girl noticed that he was pale and excited , seemed afraid and worried , as if someone were coming after him . 
After giving her some money for the landlord , he went upstairs , fetched his top coat , a muffler , and his parcel . 
Before leaving he said he would have a pint of beer , as he had not breakfasted . 
He then left , presumably to catch an early train . 
A little after ten the same night Butler entered a hotel at a place called Blueskin , some twelve miles distant from Dunedin . 
He was wearing an overcoat and a light muffler . 
He sat down at a table in the dining room and seemed weary and sleepy . 
More than once he put down the book and kept shifting uneasily in his chair . 
After having some supper he got up , paid his reckoning , and left the hotel . 
The constables arrested and searched him . 
They found on him a pair of opera glasses , the property of Mr. Stamper , whose house had been burgled and burned down on the morning of the th . 
Of this crime Butler acknowledged himself to be the perpetrator . 
One of the constables noticed that there were marks of blood on his shirt . 
Another singular feature in Butler's attire was the fact that the outer soles of his boots had been recently removed . 
When last seen in Dunedin Butler had been wearing a moustache he was now clean shaven . 
The same evening a remarkable interview took place in the lock up at Waikouaiti between Butler and Inspector Mallard . 
Mallard , who had some reason for suspecting Butler , bearing in mind their recent conversation , told the prisoner that he would be charged with the murder in Cumberland Street . 
For a few seconds , according to Mallard , the prisoner seemed terribly agitated and appeared to be choking . 
Mallard replied , There is evidence to convict you the fire was put out . 
Butler than sic said that he would ask Mallard a question , but , after a pause , decided not to do so . 
Mallard , after examining Butler's clothes , told him that those were not the clothes in which he had left the Scotia Hotel . 
Butler admitted it , and said he had thrown those away in the North East Valley . 
Mallard alluded to the disappearance of the prisoner's moustache . 
Butler replied that he had cut it off on the road . 
Mallard noticed then the backs of Butler's hands were scratched , as if by contact with bushes . 
Butler seemed often on the point of asking questions , but would then stop and say No , I won't ask you anything . 
To the constables who had arrested him Butler remarked , You ought to remember me , because I could have shot you if I had wished . 
When Mallard later in the evening visited Butler again , the prisoner who was then lying down said , I want to speak to you . 
I want to ask the press not to publish my career . 
I suppose I shall be convicted and you will see I can die like a man . 
These articles of clothing were identified as those which Butler had been seen wearing on the Saturday and Sunday morning . 
There were a number of bloodstains on them , not one of them larger in size than a pea , some almost invisible . 
On the front of the trousers about the level of the groin there were blood spots on both sides . 
There was blood on the fold of the left breast of the coat and on the lining of the cuff of the right arm . 
The shirt Butler was wearing at the time of his arrest was examined also . 
There were small spots of blood , about fourteen altogether , on the neck and shoulder bands , the right armpit , the left sleeve , and on both wristbands . 
Such were the main facts of the case which Butler had to answer when , a few weeks later , he was put on his trial before the Supreme Court at Dunedin . 
The presiding judge was Mr. Justice Williams , afterwards Sir Joshua Williams and a member of the Privy Council . 
The Crown Prosecutor , Mr. Haggitt , conducted the case for the Crown , and Butler defended himself . 
II THE TRIAL OF BUTLER To a man of Butler's egregious vanity his trial was a glorious opportunity for displaying his intellectual gifts , such as they were . 
Self willed and arrogant , he could bully or whine with equal effect . 
Despising men , he believed that if a man did not possess some requisite quality , he had only to ape it , as few would distinguish between the real and the sham . 
But with all these advantages in the struggle for life , it is certain that Butler's defence would have been far less effective had be sic been denied all professional aid . 
At the same time Butler carried off the thing well . 
Where imagination was required , Butler broke down he could not write sketches of life in prison that was too much for his pedestrian intellect . 
It may be said at the outset that Butler profited greatly by the scrupulous fairness shown by the Crown Prosecutor . 
Mr. Haggitt extended to the prisoner a degree of consideration and forbearance , justified undoubtedly towards an undefended prisoner . 
But , as we have seen , Butler was not in reality undefended . 
At every moment of the trial he was in communication with his legal advisers , and being instructed by them how to meet the evidence given against him . 
Under these circumstances the unfailing consideration shown him by the Crown Prosecutor seems almost excessive . 
From the first moment of the trial Butler was fully alive to the necessities of his situation . 
He did not know in all probability that one gentleman on the jury had a rooted conviction that the murder of the Dewars was the work of a criminal lunatic . 
There was certainly nothing in Butler's demeanour or behaviour to suggest homicidal mania . 
The case against Butler rested on purely circumstantial evidence . 
No new facts of importance were adduced at the trial . 
The stealing of Dewar's wages , which had been paid to him on the Saturday , was the motive for the murder suggested by the Crown . 
Such as the evidence was , Butler did little to shake it in cross examination . 
He was most successful in dealing with the medical witnesses . 
Butler had explained the bloodstains on his clothes as smears that had come from scratches on his hands , caused by contact with bushes . 
This explanation the medical gentlemen with good reason rejected . 
But they went further , and said that these stains might well have been caused by the spurting and spraying of blood on to the murderer as he struck his victims . 
Butler was able to show by the position of the bloodstains on the clothes that such an explanation was open to considerable doubt . 
Butler's speech in his defence lasted six hours , and was a creditable performance . 
At the outset he declared that he had taken his innocence for his defence . 
I was not willing , he said , to leave my life in the hands of a stranger . 
I was willing to incur all the disadvantages which the knowledge of the law might bring upon me . 
I was willing , also , to enter on this case without any experience whatever of that peculiarly acquired art of cross examination . 
I fear I have done wrong . 
If I had had the assistance of able counsel , much more light would have been thrown on this case than has been . 
Without such assistance his danger might have been very real . 
His consciousness of guilt in this respect was , he said , quite sufficient to account for anything strange or furtive in his manner at that time . 
A more detailed account of his movements on the night of the Dewars' murder he did not , or would not , give . 
It will be recollected that on the discovery of the murder , a knife was found on the grass outside the house . 
This knife was not the property of the Dewars . 
No thief of ambitious views , he said , would pitch upon the house of a poor journeyman butcher . 
The killing of the family appeared to him to be the motive an enemy hath done this . 
The murderer seems to have had a knowledge of the premises he enters the house and does his work swiftly and promptly , and is gone . 
We cannot know , Butler continues , all the passages in the lives of the murdered man or woman . 
The prominent feature of the murder , indeed the only feature , is its ruthless , unrelenting , determined vindictiveness . 
Every blow seemed to say , You shall die you shall not live . 
One of the Portraits was devoted to an account of Butler . 
The writer had known Butler in prison . 
According to the story told him by Butler , the latter had arrived in Dunedin with a quantity of jewellery he had stolen in Australia . 
This jewellery he entrusted to a young woman for safe keeping . 
After serving his first term of two years' imprisonment in Dunedin , Butler found on his release that the young woman had married a man of the name of Dewar . 
Butler went to Mrs. Dewar and asked for the return of his jewellery she refused to give it up . 
On the night of the murder he called at the house in Cumberland Street and made a last appeal to her , but in vain . 
During his visit to Mrs. Dewar he had had an opportunity of seeing the axe and observing the best way to break into the house . 
He watched the husband's return , and decided to kill him as well as his wife on the chance of obtaining his week's wages . 
With the help of the knife which he had found in the backyard of a hotel he opened the window . 
The husband he killed in his sleep , the woman waked with the first blow he struck her . 
He found the jewellery in a drawer rolled up in a pair of stockings . 
He afterwards hid it in a well marked spot some half hour before his arrest . 
A few years after its appearance in Society , this account of Butler was reproduced in an Auckland newspaper . 
Bain , the detective , wrote a letter questioning the truth of the writer's statements . 
He asked why , if Butler had hidden the jewellery just before his arrest , he had not also hidden the opera glasses which he had stolen from Mr. Stamper's house . 
Neither of these comments is very convincing . 
Butler showed himself not averse to speaking of the murder in Cumberland Street to at least one of those , with whom he came in contact in his later years . 
The baby looked at the two men and laughed . 
Butler frowned and walked rapidly away . 
His companion chaffed him , and asked whether it was the widow or the baby that he was afraid of . 
For a while Butler sat silent . 
Then he asked the other if he had ever been in Dunedin . 
Yes , was the reply . 
Look here , said Butler , you are the only man I ever made any kind of confidant of . 
You are a good scholar , though I could teach you a lot . 
It was my own ability that pulled me through . 
Had I employed a professional advocate , I should not have been here to day talking to you . 
After describing the murder , Butler said Trying to fire the house was unnecessary , and killing the baby was unnecessary and cruel . 
I respect no man's life , for no man respects mine . 
A lot of men I have never injured have tried to put a rope round my neck more than once . 
I hate society in general , and one or two individuals in particular . 
The man who did that murder in Dunedin has , if anything , my sympathy , but it seems to me he need not have killed that child . 
His companion was about to speak . 
Now , don't ever ask me such a silly question as that , he said . 
What ? asked his friend . 
I was about to ask nothing of the kind , said the other , for you have already told me that you were innocent . 
Firstly , there was the fact of his being in the neighbourhood of the crime on the Sunday morning that , he said , applied to scores of other people besides himself . 
Then there was his alleged disturbed appearance and guilty demeanour . 
The evidence of that was , he contended , doubtful in any case , and referable to another cause as also his leaving Dunedin in the way and at the time he did . 
He scouted the idea that murderers are compelled by some invisible force to betray their guilt . 
Murderers , if they have the sense and ability and discretion to cover up their crime , will escape , do escape , and have escaped . 
Many people , when they have gravely shaken their heads and said Murder will out , consider they have done a great deal and gone a long way towards settling the question . 
Well , this , like many other stock formulas of Old World wisdom , is not true . 
Butler was more successful when he came to deal with the bloodstains on his clothes . 
These , he said , were caused by the blood from the scratches on his hands , which had been observed at the time of his arrest . 
Butler put on the clothes in court , and was successful in showing that the position and appearance of certain of the blood spots was not compatible with such a theory . 
Butler's concluding words to the jury were brief but emphatic I stand in a terrible position . 
See that in your way of disposing of me you deliver yourselves of your responsibilities . 
In the exercise of his forbearance towards an undefended prisoner , Mr. Haggitt did not address the jury for the Crown . 
At four o'clock the judge commenced his summingDup . 
There was little or no evidence that robbery was the motive of the crime . 
The evidence of his agitation and demeanour at the time of his arrest must be accepted with caution . 
The evidence of the blood spots was of crucial importance there was nothing save this to connect him directly with the crime . 
The jury must be satisfied that the blood on the clothes corresponded with the blood marks which , in all probability , would be found on the person who committed the murder . 
In regard to the medical testimony some caution must be exercised . 
Taking the Crown evidence , at its strongest , there was a missing link did the evidence of the bloodstains supply it ? These bloodstains were almost invisible . 
According to one account of their proceedings , told to the writer , there was at first a majority of the jurymen in favour of conviction . 
But it was Saturday night if they could not come to a decision they were in danger of being locked up over Sunday . 
Whatever the cause , after three hours' deliberation the jury returned a verdict of Not Guilty . 
Later in the Session Butler pleaded guilty to the burglary at Mr. Stamper's house , and was sentenced to eighteen years' imprisonment . 
The severity of this sentence was not , the judge said , intended to mark the strong suspicion under which Butler laboured of being a murderer as well as a burglar . 
The ends of justice had been served by Butler's acquittal . 
But in the light of after events , it is perhaps unfortunate that the jury did not stretch a point and so save the life of Mr. Munday of Toowong . 
Butler underwent his term of imprisonment in Littleton Jail . 
There his reputation was most unenviable . 
He is described by a fellow prisoner as ill tempered , malicious , destructive , but cowardly and treacherous . 
III HIS DECLINE AND FALL In Butler was released from prison . 
The news of his release was described as falling like a bomb shell among the peaceful inhabitants of Dunedin . 
In the colony of Victoria , where Butler had commenced his career , it was received with an apprehension that was justified by subsequent events . 
It was believed that on his release the New Zealand authorities had shipped Butler off to Rio . 
But it was not long before he made his way once more to Australia . 
From the moment of his arrival in Melbourne he was shadowed by the police . 
One or two mysterious occurrences soon led to his arrest . 
Not content with this , the authorities determined to put Butler on trial on two charges of burglary and one of highway robbery , committed since his return to the colony . 
To one charge of burglary , that of breaking into a hairdresser's shop and stealing a wig , some razors and a little money , Butler pleaded guilty . 
The old man did ashe was told . 
The robber then asked for his watch and chain , saying Business must be done . 
The old gentleman mildly urged that this was a dangerous business . 
On being assured that the watch was a gold one , the robber appeared willing to risk the danger , and departed thoroughly satisfied . 
The old gentleman afterwards identified Butler as the man who had taken his watch . 
Another elderly man swore that he had seen Butler at the time of the robbery in the possession of a fine gold watch , which he said had been sent him from home . 
But the watch had not been found in Butler's possession . 
On June Butler was put on his trial in the Melbourne Criminal Court before Mr. Justice Holroyd , charged with robbery under arms . 
His appearance in the dock aroused very considerable interest . 
It was the general verdict , wrote one newspaper , that his intellectual head and forehead compared not unfavour ably with those of the judge . 
He was decently dressed and wore pince nez , which he used in the best professional manner as he referred to the various documents that lay in front of him . 
He went into the witness box and stated that the evening of the crime he had spent according to his custom in the Public Library . 
For an hour and a half he addressed the jury . 
He disputed the possibility of his identification by his alleged victim . 
He was an old gentleman of sedentary pursuits and not cast in the heroic mould . 
Such a man would be naturally alarmed and confused at meeting suddenly an armed robber . 
For the elderly person who had stated that he had seen a gold watch in Butler's possession the latter had nothing but scorn . 
He was a lean and slippered pantaloon in Shakespeare's last stage and he , Butler , would have been a lunatic to have confided in such a man . 
The jury acquitted Butler , adding as a rider to their verdict that there was not sufficient evidence of identification . 
The third charge against Butler was not proceeded with . 
He was put up to receive sentence for the burglary at the hairdresser's shop . 
Of that life of fifty years Butler had spent thirty five in prison . 
An iniquitous and brutal sentence ! exclaimed the prisoner . 
After a brief altercation with the judge , who said that he could hardly express the scorn he felt for such a man , Butler was removed . 
The judge subsequentty reduced the sentence to one of ten years . 
Chance or destiny would seem implacable in their pursuit of Mr. William Munday of Toowong . 
Butler after his trial admitted that it was he who had robbed the old gentleman of his watch , and described to the police the house in which it was hidden . 
Butler served his term of imprisonment in Victoria , an unmitigated nuisance to his custodians . 
On his release in , he made , as in Dunedin , an attempt to earn a living by his pen . 
He contributed some articles to a Melbourne evening paper on the inconveniences of prison discipline , but he was quite unfitted for any sustained effort as a journalist . 
According to his own account , with the little money he had left he made his way to Sydney , thence to Brisbane . 
It was under the influence of such an impulse that on March Butler had met and shot Mr. Munday at Toowong . 
On May he was arraigned at Brisbane before the Supreme Court of Queensland . 
But the Butler who stood in the dock of the Brisbane Criminal Court was very different from the Butler who had successfully defended himself at Dunedin and Melbourne . 
The spirit had gone out of him it was rather as a suppliant , represented by counsel , that he faced the charge of murder . 
His attitude was one of humble and appropriate penitence . 
When about to be sentenced to death he expressed great sorrow and contrition for his crime , for the poor wife and children of his unfortunate victim . 
His life , he said , was a poor thing , but he would gladly give it fifty times over . 
The sentence of death was confirmed by the Executive on June . 
So instead of the depart Christian soul' of the priest , I only hope for the comfort and satisfaction of the last friendly good bye of any who cares to give it . 
From this positive affirmation of unbelief Butler wilted somewhat at the approach of death . 
M. Derues The last word on Derues has been said by M. Georges Claretie in his excellent monograph , Derues L'Empoisonneur , Paris . 
There is a full account of the case in Vol . 
V. of Fouquier , Causes Celebres . 
With an eye to the main chance M. de Lamotte had in ran away with the daughter of a wealthy citizen of Rheims , who was then staying with her sister in Paris . 
They lived together in the country for some time , and a son was born to them , whom the father legitimised by subsequently marrying the mother . 
For a few years M. and Mme . 
de Lamotte dwelt happily together at Buisson Souef . 
The legal side of the transaction was placed in the hands of one Jolly , a proctor at the Chatelet in Paris . 
Always cheerful and optimistic , it was quite a pleasure to do business with M. Derues de Cyrano de Bury . 
The de Lamottes after one or two interviews were delighted with their prospective purchaser . 
M. Derues and his wife , a lady belonging to the distinguished family of Nicolai , visited Buisson Souef . 
They were enchanted with what they saw , and their hosts were hardly less enchanted with their visitors . 
By the end of December , , the purchase was concluded . 
In the meantime , as an earnest of good faith , M. Derues gave Mme . 
de Lamotte a bill for , livres to fall due on April , . 
What could be more satisfactory ? That M. Derues was a substantial person there could be no doubt . 
At this time M. Derues was in reality far from affluent . 
In point of fact he was insolvent . 
Nor was his lineage , nor that of his wife , in any way distinguished . 
He had no right to call himself de Cyrano de Bury or Lord of Candeville . 
His wife's name was Nicolais , not Nicolai a very important difference from the genealogical point of view . 
The Duplessis inheritance , though certainly existent , would seem to have had little more chance of realisation than the mythical Crawford millions of Madame Humbert . 
Antoine Francois Derues was born at Chartres in his father was a corn merchant . 
His parents died when he was three years old . 
For some time after his birth he was assumed to be a girl it was not until he was twelve years old that an operation determined his sex to be masculine . 
The first statement was untrue . 
The lady was one Marie Louise Nicolais , daughter of a non commissioned artillery officer , turned coachbuilder . 
There was more truth in the statement that Mme . 
A kinsman of her mother , Beraud by name , had become the heir to a certain Marquis Desprez . 
Beraud was the son of a small merchant . 
His mother had married a second time , the hus band being the Marquis Desprez , and through her Beraud had inherited the Marquis' property . 
According to the custom of the time , Beraud , on coming into his inheritance , took a title from one of his estates and called himself thenceforth the lord of Despeignes Duplessis . 
A rude , solitary , brutal man , devoted to sport , he lived alone in his castle of Candeville , hated by his neighbours , a terror to poachers . 
One day he was found lying dead in his bedroom he had been shot in the chest the assassin had escaped through an open window . 
The mystery of Beraud's murder was never solved . 
His estate of , livres was divided among three cousins , of whom the mother of Mme . 
Derues herself was entitled to a third of his mother's share of the estate , that is , one ninth of the whole . 
But in Derues acquired the rest of the mother's share on condition that he paid her an annual income of , livres . 
Thus on the liquidation of the Duplessis inheritance Mme . 
Derues would be entitled nominally to some , livres , about L , in English money . 
But five years had passed since the death of Despeignes Duplessis , and the estate was still in the slow process of legal settlement . 
His financial condition was in the last degree critical . 
Not content with the modest calling of a grocer , Derues had turned money lender , a money lender to spendthrift and embarrassed noblemen . 
The smiling grocer , in his everlasting bonnet and flowered dressing gown a la J. J. Rousseau , was ever ready to oblige the needy scion of a noble house . 
What he borrowed at moderate interest from his creditors he lent at enhanced interest to the quality . 
Duns and bailiffs jostled the dukes and marquises whose presence at the Rue Beaubourg so impressed the wondering neighbours of the facile grocer . 
This aristocratic money lending proved a hopeless trade it only plunged Derues deeper and deeper into the mire of financial disaster . 
The noblemen either forgot to pay while they were alive , or on their death were found to be insolvent . 
Derues was driven to ordering goods and merchandise on credit , and selling them at a lower price for ready money . 
Victims of this treatment began to press him seriously for their money or their goods . 
Desperately he continued to fence them off with the long expected windfall of the Duplessis inheritance . 
Paris was getting too hot for him . 
Gay and irrepressible as he was , the strain was severe . 
Undefeated , Derues only deter mined to fly the higher . 
Having failed to pay , livres for a modest estate near Rueil , he had no hesitation in pledging himself to pay , livres for the lordly domain of Buisson Souef . 
The confiding , if willing , dupe of aristocratic impecuniosity , Derues was a past master of the art of duping others . 
From the moment of the purchase of Buisson Souef all his art was employed in cajoling the trusting and simple de Lamottes . 
Legally Buisson Souef was his from the signing of the agreement in December , . 
His first payment was due in April , . 
Instead of making it , Derues went down to Buisson Souef with his little girl , and stayed there as the guests of the de Lamottes for six months . 
His good humour and piety won all hearts . 
The village priest especially derived great satisfaction from the society of so devout a companion . 
He entertained his good friends , the merry little man , by dressing up as a woman , a role his smooth face and effeminate features well fitted him to play . 
But as time went on and no payment was forthcoming the de Lamottes began to feel a little uneasy . 
de Lamotte had developed into a stout , indolent woman , of the Mrs. Bloss type , fond of staying in bed and taking heavy meals . 
Her son , a fat , lethargic youth of fourteen , accompanied his mother . 
de Lamotte's contemplated visit to Paris , Derues was filled with alarm . 
de Lamotte were to come to Paris , she must come as the guest of the Derues , a pleasant return for the hospitality accorded to the grocer at Buisson Souef . 
The invitation was given and readily accepted M. de Lamotte still had enough confidence in and liking for the Derues to be glad of the opportunity of placing his wife under their roof . 
And so it was that on December , , Mme . 
de Lamotte arrived at Paris and took up her abode at the house of the Derues in the Rue Beaubourg Her son she placed at a private school in a neighbouring street . 
But that was by no means the view of the cheery and resourceful grocer . 
He had a solution ready , well thought out and bearing to his mind the stamp of probability . 
He would make a fictitious payment of the purchase money to Mme . 
She would then disappear , taking her son with her . 
He would then produce the necessary documents proving the payment of the purchase money , and Buisson Souef would be his for good and all . 
The prime necessity to the success of this plan was the disappearance , willing or unwilling , of Mme . 
de Lamotte and her son . 
de Lamotte was seized with sickness and internal trouble . 
Though Derues wrote to her husband that his wife was well and their business was on the point of conclusion , by the th of January Mme . 
de Lamotte had taken to her bed , nursed and physicked by the ready Derues . 
On the st the servant at the Rue Beaubourg was told that she could go to her home at Montrouge , whither Derues had previously sent his two children . 
Derues , who was in an interesting condition , was sent out for an hour by her husband to do some shopping . 
Derues was alone with his patient . 
In the evening a friend , one Bertin , came to dine with Derues . 
Bertin was a short , hustling , credulous , breathless gentleman , always in a hurry , with a great belief in the abilities of M. Derues . 
He found the little man in excellent spirits . 
Bertin asked if he could see Mme . 
Derues said that that was impossible , but that her husband had given her some medicine which was working splendidly . 
The young de Lamotte called to see his mother . 
Derues took him into her room in the dim light the boy saw her sleeping , and crept out quietly for fear of disturbing her . 
The Derues and their friends sat down to dinner . 
Derues kept jumping up and running into the sick room , from which a horrible smell began to pervade the house . 
But Derues was radiant at the success of his medicine . 
Was there ever such a nurse as I am ? he exclaimed . 
Bertin remarked that he thought it was a woman's and not a man's place to nurse a lady under such distressing circumstances . 
Derues protested that it was an occupation he had always liked . 
Next day , February , the servant was still at Montrouge Mme . 
Derues was again sent out shopping again Derues was alone with his patient . 
But she was a patient no longer she had become a corpse . 
The highly successful medicine administered to the poor lady by her jolly and assiduous nurse had indeed worked wonders . 
Derues had bought a large leather trunk . 
It is possible that to Derues belongs the distinction of being the first murderer to put that harmless and necessary article of travel to a criminal use . 
He was engaged in his preparations for coffining Mme . 
de Lamotte , when a female creditor knocked insistently at the door . 
She would take no denial . 
Clad in his bonnet and gown , Derues was compelled to admit her . 
She saw the large trunk , and suspected a bolt on the part of her creditor . 
Derues reassured her a lady , he said , who had been stopping with them was returning to the country . 
Later in the day Derues came out of the house and summoned some porters . 
Bertin came in to dinner again that evening , and also the young de Lamotte . 
Derues was gayer than ever , laughing and joking with his guests . 
He told the boy that his mother had quite recovered and gone to Versailles to see about finding him some post at the Court . 
We'll go and see her there in a day or two , he said , I'll let you know when . 
He had , he said , some Spanish wine he wanted to store there , and three or four days later M. Ducoudray deposited in this cellar a large grey trunk . 
While the man worked at the job , his genial employer beguiled his labours with merry quips and tales , which he illustrated with delightful mimicry . 
The hole dug , the man was sent about his business . 
A few days later M. Derues sent down to his place at Buisson Souef a large trunk filled with china . 
It was received there by M. de Lamotte . 
Creditors were always interrupting Derues at inconvenient moments . 
M. Mesvrel Desvergers had tapped Derues on the shoulder , reminded him forcibly of his liability towards him , and spoken darkly of possible imprisonment . 
Derues pointed to the trunk . 
It contained , he said , a sample of wine he was going to order some more of it , and he would then be in a position to pay his debt . 
But the creditor , still doubting , had M. Derues followed , and ascertained that he had deposited his sample of wine at a house in the Rue de la Mortellerie . 
They hired a room at the house of a cooper named Pecquet . 
M. Beaupre was a very pale little gentleman , who seemed in excellent spirits , in spite of the fact that his nephew was clearly anything but well . 
Indeed , so sick and ailing did he appear to be that Mme . 
Pecquet suggested that his uncle should call in a doctor . 
But M. Beaupre said that that was quite unnecessary he had no faith in doctors he would give the boy a good purge . 
On the Thursday and Friday the boy's condition showed little improvement the vomiting continued . 
But on Saturday M. Beaupre declared himself as highly delighted with the success of his medicine . 
The same night the boy was dead . 
The priest , urgently sent for by his devout uncle , arrived to find a corpse . 
As usual , Bertin dropped in to dinner . 
He found his host full of merriment , singing in the lightness of his heart . 
Indeed , he had reason to be pleased , for at last , he told his wife and his friend , Buisson Souef was his . 
de Lamotte at Versailles and paid her the full purchase money in good , sounding gold . 
And , best joke of all , Mme . 
The gay gentleman laughingly reminded his hearers that such an escapade on the part of Mme . 
de Lamotte was hardly to be wondered at , when they recollected that her son had been born out of wedlock To all appearances Mme . 
de Lamotte had undoubtedly concluded the sale of Buisson Souef to Derues and received the price of it before disappearing with her lover . 
Derues had in his possession a deed of sale signed by Mme . 
de Lamotte and acknowledging the payment to her by Derues of , livres , which he had borrowed for that purpose from an advocate of the name of Duclos . 
As a fact the loan from Duclos to Derues was fictitious . 
A legal document proving the loan had been drawn up , but the cash which the notary had demanded to see before executing the document had been borrowed for a few hours . 
She was told that the date should be that of the day on which the parties had signed it . 
She gave it as February . 
A few days later Derues called at the office and was told of the lady's visit . 
Ah ! he said , it was Mme . 
de Lamotte herself , the lady who sold me the estate . 
In the meantime Derues , through his bustling and ubiquitous friend Bertin , took good care that the story of Mme . 
de Lamotte's sale of Buisson Souef and subsequent elopement should be spread sedulously abroad . 
By Bertin it was told to M. Jolly , the proctor in whose hands the de Lamottes had placed the sale of Buisson Souef . 
It was M. Jolly who had in the first instance recommended to them his client Derues as a possible purchaser . 
The proctor , who knew Mme . 
But , said M. Jolly , if he were satisfied that Mme . 
de Lamotte , being a married woman , the sale of the property to Derues would be legally invalid if the husband's power of attorney were not in the hands of the purchaser . 
II THE GAME OF BLUFF To Derues , on the eve of victory , the statement of Jolly in regard to the power of attorney was a serious reverse . 
He had never thought of such an instrument , or he would have persuaded Mme . 
de Lamotte to have gotten permission of it before her disappearance . 
Now he must try to get it from Jolly himself . 
His pocket full of gold , he went straight to the office of Jolly . 
To the surprise of the proctor Derues announced that he had come to pay him livres which he owed him , and apologised for the delay . 
Taking the gold coins from his pockets he filled his three cornered hat with considerably more than the sum due , and held it out invitingly to M. Jolly . 
Then he proceeded to tell him of his dealings with Mme . 
But , he added , I trust you absolutely , M. Jolly , you have all my business in your hands , and I shall be a good client in the future . 
You have the power of attorney you will give it to me ? and he rattled the coins in his hat . 
M. Jolly saw his meaning , and his surprise turned to indignation . 
Derues hastened home filled with wrath , and took counsel with his friend Bertin . 
Bertin knew something of legal process they would try whether the law could not be invoked to compel Jolly to surrender the power of attorney . 
Bertin went off to the Civil Lieutenant and applied for an order to oblige M. Jolly to give up the document in question . 
An order was made that Jolly must either surrender it into the hands of Derues or appear before a referee and show cause why he should not comply with the order . 
Jolly refused still to give it up or allow a copy of it to be made , and agreed to appear before the referee to justify his action . 
In the meantime Derues , greatly daring , had started for Buisson Souef to try what bluff could do in this serious crisis in his adventure . 
At Buisson Souef poor M. de Lamotte waited , puzzled and distressed , for news from his wife . 
On Saturday , th , the day after the return of Derues from Versailles , he heard from Mme . 
Derues that his wife had left Paris and gone with her son to Versailles . 
A second letter told him that she had completed the sale of Buisson Souef to Derues , and was still at Versailles trying to obtain some post for the boy . 
Derues wrote again expressing surprise that M. de Lamotte had not had any letter from his wife and asking if he had received some oysters which the Derues had sent him . 
The distracted husband was in no mood for oysters . 
Do not send me oysters , he writes , I am too ill with worry . 
I thank you for all your kindness to my son . 
I love him better than myself , and God grant he will be good and grateful . 
The only reply he received from the Derues was an assurance that he would see his wife again in a few days . 
The days passed , but Mme . 
de Lamotte made no sign . 
About four o'clock on the afternoon of February , Derues , accompanied by the parish priest of Villeneuvele Roi , presented himself before M. de Lamotte at Buisson Souef . 
For the moment M. de Lamotte was rejoiced to see the little man at last he would get news of his wife . 
Derues could tell him only what he had been told already , that his wife had sold their estate and gone away with the money . 
M. de Lamotte was hardly convinced . 
By this time the anger and indignation of M. de Lamotte blazed forth . 
He told Derues that his story was a pack of lies , that he was still master at Buisson Souef , and not a bottle of wine should leave it . 
You are torturing me , he exclaimed , I know something has happened to my wife and child . 
But things were going ill with Derues . 
M. de Lamotte meant to show fight he would have powerful friends to back him class against class , the little grocer would be no match for him . 
It was immediate possession of Buisson Souef that Derues wanted , not lawsuits they were expensive and the results uncertain . 
He spoke freely to his friends of the difficulties of the situation . 
What could he do ? The general opinion seemed to be that some fresh news of Mme . 
de Lamotte her reappearance , perhaps would be the only effective settlement of the dispute . 
de Lamotte disappear , why should he not make her reappear ? He was not the man to stick at trifles . 
His powers of female impersonation , with which he had amused his good friends at Buisson Souef , could now be turned to practical account . 
On March he left Paris again . 
On the evening of March a gentleman , M. Desportes of Paris , hired a room at the Hotel Blanc in Lyons . 
The same morning a gentleman , resembling M. Desportes of Paris , bought two lady's dresses at a shop in Lyons . 
The same afternoon a lady dressed in black silk , with a hood well drawn over her eyes , called at the office of M. Pourra , a notary . 
The latter was not greatly attracted by his visitor , whose nose struck him as large for a woman . 
She said that she had spent her youth in Lyons , but her accent was distinctly Parisian . 
de Lamotte had called twice during the day at the Hotel Blanc and asked for M. Desportes of Paris , but he was not at home . 
While Derues , alias Desportes , alias Mme . 
de Lamotte , was masquerading in Lyons , events had been moving swiftly and unfavourably in Paris . 
Sick with misgiving and anxiety , M. de Lamotte had come there to find , if possible , his wife and child . 
At first the magistrate believed that the case was one of fraud and that Mme . 
de Lamotte and her son were being kept somewhere in concealment by Derues . 
But as he investigated the circumstances further , the evidence of the illness of the mother and son , the date of the disappearance of Mme . 
de Lamotte , and her reputed signature to the deed of sale on February , led him to suspect that he was dealing with a case of murder . 
A day or two later the advocate , Duclos , revealed to the magistrate the fictitious character of the loan of , livres , which Derues alleged that he had paid to Mme . 
de Lamotte as the price of Buisson Souef . 
When the new power of attorney purporting to be signed by Mme . 
de Lamotte arrived from Lyons , and the signature was compared with that on the deed of sale of Buisson Souef to Derues , both were pronounced to be forgeries . 
Derues was arrested and lodged in the Prison of For l'Eveque . 
The approach of danger had not dashed the spirits of the little man , nor was he without partisans in Paris . 
Opinion in the city was divided as to the truth of his account of Mme . 
The nobility were on the side of the injured de Lamotte , but the bourgeoisie accepted the grocer's story and made merry over the deceived husband . 
Interrogated , however , by the magistrate of the Chatelet , Derues' position became more difficult . 
Under the stress of close questioning the flimsy fabric of his financial statements fell to pieces like a house of cards . 
He had to admit that he had never paid Mme . 
Still his position was not desperate and he knew it . 
In the absence of Mme . 
de Lamotte he could not be charged with fraud or forgery and until her body was discovered , it would be impossible to charge him with murder . 
Derues , who had made a belated attempt to follow her husband's example by impersonating Mme . 
Whether the woman who had let the cellar to Derues , or the creditor who had met him taking his cask of wine there , had informed the investigating magistrate , seems uncertain . 
In any case , the corpse of the unhappy lady was soon brought to light and Derues confronted with it . 
At first he said that he failed to recognise it as the remains of Mme . 
de Lamotte , but he soon abandoned that rather impossible attitude . 
He admitted that he had given some harmless medicine to Mme . 
de Lamotte during her illness , and then , to his horror , one morning had awakened to find her dead . 
On April the body of the young de Lamotte was exhumed . 
Both bodies were examined by doctors , and they declared themselves satisfied that mother and son had died from a bitter and corrosive poison administered in some kind of drink . 
How or where he had obtained the poison was never discovered . 
Justice moved swiftly in Paris in those days . 
The preliminary investigation in Derues' case was ended on April . 
Two days later his trial commenced before the tribunal of the Chatelet . 
The judges had before them the depositions taken by the examining magistrate . 
Both Derues and his wife were interrogated . 
He maintained that he had not poisoned either Mme . 
de Lamotte or her son his only crime , he said , lay in having concealed their deaths . 
The court condemned Derues to death , but deferred judgment in his wife's case on the ground of her pregnancy . 
And now the frail , cat like little man had to brace himself to meet a cruel and protracted execution . 
But sanguine to the last , he still hoped . 
An appeal lay from the Chatelet to the Parliament of Paris . 
It was heard on March . 
Derues was brought to the Palais de Justice . 
The room in which he waited was filled with curious spectators , who marvelled at his coolness and impudence . 
He recognised among them a Benedictine monk of his acquaintance . 
My case , he called out to him , will soon be over we'll meet again yet and have a good time together . 
One visitor , wishing not to appear too curious , pretended to be looking at a picture . 
Come , sir , said Derues , you haven't come here to see the pictures , but to see me . 
Have a good look at me . 
Why study copies of nature when you can look at such a remarkable original as I ? But there were to be no more days of mirth and gaiety for the jesting grocer . 
His appeal was rejected , and he was ordered for execution on the morrow . 
At six o'clock on the morning of May Derues returned to the Palais de Justice , there to submit to the superfluous torments of the question ordinary and extraordinary . 
Though condemned to death , torture was to be applied in the hope of wringing from the prisoner some sort of confession . 
The doctors declared him too delicate to undergo the torture of pouring cold water into him , which his illustrious predecessor , Mme . 
de Brinvilliers , had suffered he was to endure the less severe torture of the boot . 
His legs were tightly encased in wood , and wedges were then hammered in until the flesh was crushed and the bones broken . 
But never a word of confession was wrung from the suffering creature . 
Four wedges constituting the ordinary torture he endured at the third of the extraordinary he fainted away . 
Put in the front of a fire the warmth restored him . 
Again he was questioned , again he asserted his wife's innocence and his own . 
At two o'clock in the afternoon Derues was recovered sufficiently to be taken to Notre Dame . 
There , in front of the Cathedral , candle in hand and rope round his neck , he made the amende honorable . 
But as the sentence was read aloud to the people Derues reiterated the assertion of his innocence . 
From Notre Dame he was taken to the Hotel de Ville . 
A condemned man had the right to stop there on his way to execution , to make his will and last dying declarations . 
Derues availed himself of this opportunity to protest solemnly and emphatically his wife's absolute innocence of any complicity in whatever he had done . 
I want above all , he said , to state that my wife is entirely innocent . 
I used fifty cunning devices to hide everything from her . 
I am speaking nothing but the truth , she is wholly innocent as for me , I am about to die . 
Once again , as he took up the pen to sign the record of his last words , he re asserted her innocence . 
Of the last dreadful punishment the offending grocer was to be spared nothing . 
For an aristocrat like Mme . 
de Brinvilliers beheading was considered indignity enough . 
He must endure all to the utmost agony the law could inflict . 
Pale but calm , Derues faced his audience . 
Then with a heavy bar of iron the executioner broke them one after another , and each time he struck a fearful cry came from the culprit . 
The customary three final blows on the stomach were inflicted , but still the little man lived . 
Alive and broken , he was thrown on to the fire . 
His burnt ashes , scattered to the winds , were picked up eagerly by the mob , reputed , as in England the pieces of the hangman's rope , talismans . 
Some two months after the execution of her husband Mme . 
Derues was delivered in the Conciergerie of a male child it is hardly surprising , in face of her experiences during her pregnancy , that it was born an idiot . 
In the following August she was charged with having forged the signature of Mme . 
de Lamotte on the deeds of sale . 
In February , , the two experts in handwriting to whom the question had been submitted decided in her favour , and the charge was abandoned . 
Derues had a far sterner , more implacable and , be it added , more unscrupulous adversary than the law in M. de Lamotte . 
Not content with her husband's death , M. de Lamotte believed the wife to have been his partner in guilt , and thirsted for revenge . 
At last , in March , , the Parliament decided to finish with the affair . 
and imprisoned for life in the Salpetriere Prison . 
On March , in front of the Conciergerie Mme . 
Derues underwent the first part of her punishment . 
The same day her hair was cut short , and she was dressed in the uniform of the prison in which she was to pass the remainder of her days . 
Paris had just begun to forget Mme . 
Derues when a temporary interest was excited in her fortunes by the astonishing intelligence that , two months after her condemnation , she had been delivered of a child in her new prison . 
Its fatherhood was never determined , and , taken from her mother , the child died in fifteen days . 
A fellow prisoner in the Salpetriere described Mme . 
Derues as scheming , malicious , capable of anything . 
She was accused of being violent , and of wishing to revenge herself by setting fire to Paris . 
At length the Revolution broke on France , the Bastille fell , and in that same year an old uncle of Mme . 
Derues , an ex soldier of Louis XV . 
, living in Brittany , petitioned for his niece's release . 
He protested her innocence , and begged that he might take her to his home and restore her to her children . 
For three years he persisted vainly in his efforts . 
At last , in the year , it seemed as if they might be crowned with success . 
He was told that the case would be re examined that it was possible that the Parliament had judged unjustly . 
This good news came to him in March . 
But in September of that year there took place those shocking massacres in the Paris prisons , which rank high among the atrocities of the Revolution . 
At four o'clock on the afternoon of September , the slaughterers visited the Salpetriere Prison , and fifth among their victims fell the widow of Derues . 
Castaing There are two reports of the trial of Castaing Proces Com plet d'Edme Samuel Castaing , Paris , Affaire Castaing , Paris , . 
I AN UNHAPPY COINCIDENCE Edme Castaing , born at Alencon in , was the youngest of the three sons of an Inspector General in the department of Woods and Forests . 
His elder brother had entered the same service as his father , the other brother was a staff captain of engineers . 
Without being wealthy , the family , consisting of M. and Mme . 
Castaing and four children , was in comfortable circumstances . 
The young Edme was educated at the College of Angers the Alma Mater of Barre and Lebiez where , intelligent and hard working , he carried off many prizes . 
He decided to enter the medical profession , and at the age of nineteen commenced his studies at the School of Medicine in Paris . 
For two years he worked hard and well , living within the modest allowance made him by his father . 
Of the genuine depth and sincerity of this passion for a woman who must have been considerably older than himself , there can be no doubt . 
The lady was exigent , and Castaing found it difficult to combine his work with a due regard to her claims on his society . 
Nor was work plentiful or lucrative . 
To add to his embarrassments Castaing , in , had backed a bill for a friend for francs . 
To meet it when it fell due two years later was impossible , and desperate were the efforts made by Castaing and his mother to put off the day of reckoning . 
His father , displeased with his son's conduct , would do nothing to help him . 
But his mother spared no effort to extricate him from his difficulties . 
She begged a highly placed official to plead with the insistent creditor , but all in vain . 
There seemed no hope of a further delay when suddenly , in the October of , Castaing became the possessor of , francs . 
How he became possessed of this considerable sum of money forms part of a strange and mysterious story . 
Among the friends of Castaing were two young men of about his own age , Auguste and Hippolyte Ballet . 
Auguste , the elder , had the misfortune a few days after his birth to incur his mother's lasting dislike . 
The nurse had let the child fall from her arms in the mother's presence , and the shock had endangered Mme . 
From that moment the mother took a strong aver sion to her son he was left to the charge of servants his meals were taken in the kitchen . 
As soon as he was five years old he was put out to board elsewhere , while his brother Hippolyte and his sister were well cared for at home . 
The effect of this unjust neglect on the character of Auguste Ballet was , as may be imagined , had he became indolent and dissipated . 
His brother Hippolyte , on the other hand , had justified the affectionate care bestowed on his upbringing he had grown into a studious , intelligent youth of a refined and attractive temperament . 
Unhappily , early in his life he had developed consumption , a disease he inherited from his mother . 
As he grew older his health grew steadily worse until , in , his friends were seriously alarmed at his condition . 
It became so much graver that , in the August of that year , the doctors recommended him to take the waters at Enghien . 
In September he returned to Paris apparently much better , but on October he was seized with sudden illness , and three days later he was dead . 
A few years before the death of Hippolyte his father and mother had died almost at the same time . 
M. Ballet had left to each of his sons a fortune of some , francs . 
Though called to the bar , both Auguste and Hippolyte Ballet were now men of independent means . 
After the death of their parents , whatever jealousy Auguste may have felt at the unfair preference which his mother had shown for her younger son , had died down . 
At the time of Hippolyte's death the brothers were on good terms , though the more prudent Hippolyte disapproved of his elder brother's extravagance . 
Castaing had become the fast friend . 
About the middle of August , , Hippolyte , on the advice of his doctors , went to Enghien to take the waters . 
There Castaing paid him frequent visits . 
He returned to Paris on September , and seemed to have benefited greatly by the cure . 
On Tuesday , October , he saw his sister , Mme . 
Martignon , and her husband he seemed well , but said that he was having leeches applied to him by his friend Castaing . 
On the Wednesday evening his sister saw him again , and found him well and with a good appetite . 
On the Thursday , after a night disturbed by severe attacks of vomiting , his condition seemed serious . 
His brother in law , who visited him , found that he had taken to his bed , his face was swollen , his eyes were red . 
His sister called in the evening , but could not see him . 
The servants told her that her brother was a little better but resting , and that he did not wish to be disturbed they said that Dr . 
Castaing had been with him all day . 
On Friday Castaing himself called on the Martignons , and told them that Hippolyte had passed a shockingly bad night . 
Later in the day Mme . 
Martignon went to her brother's house . 
In order to obey Dr . 
But even this subterfuge was forbidden by Castaing , and Mme . 
Martignon had to content herself with listening in an adjoining room for the sound of her brother's voice . 
Martignon was prostrated with grief , but her husband hastened to his brother in law's house . 
There he found Castaing , who said that the death agony of his friend was so dreadful that he had not the strength to remain in the room with the dying man . 
Another doctor was sent for , but at ten o'clock the following morning , after protracted suffering , Hippolyte Ballet passed away . 
A post mortem was held on his body . 
It was made by Drs . 
Hippolyte had died , leaving a fortune of some , francs . 
In the previous September he had spoken to the notary Lebret , a former clerk of his father's , of his intention of making a will . 
He had seen that his brother Auguste was squandering his share of their inheritance he told Lebret that whatever he might leave to Auguste should not be placed at his absolute disposal . 
To his servant Victoire , during his last illness , Hippolyte had spoken of a will he had made which he wished to destroy . 
If Hippolyte had made such a will , did he destroy it before his death ? In any case , no trace of it was ever found after his death . 
He was presumed to have died intestate , and his fortune was divided , three quarters of it going to his brother Auguste , the remaining quarter to his sister , Mme . 
I have the greatest need of it . 
Destroy my letter , and reply at once . 
M. Sandrie will , I am sure , accommodate me . 
I am at my poor brother's house , from which I am writing . 
Prignon did as he was asked , but it was two days before the stockbroker , Sandrie , could raise the necessary sum . 
On October he sold out sufficient of Auguste's stock to realise , francs , and the following day gave Prignon an order on the Bank of France for that amount . 
The same day Prignon took the order to Auguste . 
Accompanied by Castaing and Jean , Auguste's black servant , Auguste and Prignon drove to the bank . 
There the order was cashed . 
Prignon's part of the business was at an end . 
He said good bye to Auguste outside the bank . 
As the latter got into his cabriolet , carrying the bundle of notes , Prignon heard him say to Castaing There are the , francs . 
According to Auguste's story , his sister , Mme . 
Martignon , had offered Lebret , francs to preserve a copy of a will made by Hippolyte , leaving her the bulk of his fortune . 
Later he swore that it was Auguste Ballet . 
Did Lebret , as a fact , receive the , francs ? A close examination of his finances showed no trace of such a sum . 
Of how this large sum of money had come to Castaing at a time when he was practically insolvent he gave various accounts . 
If he had given Castaing , francs for himself , there was no occasion for surprise or suspicion at his investing , . 
That Auguste had paid out , francs to some one in October the state of his finances at his death clearly proved . 
According to the theory of the prosecution , Auguste believed that he had paid that money to Lebret through the intermediary of Castaing , and not to Castaing himself . 
Hence his surprise at hearing that Castaing , whom he knew to be impecunious , was investing such a sum as , francs . 
No money had ever reached Lebret . 
His honesty and good faith were demonstrated beyond any shadow of a doubt no copy of any will of Hippolyte Ballet had ever been in his possession . 
But Castaing had shown Auguste Ballet a copy of his brother's will , the seals of which Auguste had shown to his mistress . 
In all probability , and possibly at the instigation of Castaing , Hip polyte Ballet had made a will , leaving the greater part of his property to his sister . 
Somehow or other Castaing had got possession of this will . 
On his death Castaing had invented the story of Mme . 
Martignon's bribe to Lebret , and so persuaded Auguste to outbid her . 
The plot was ingenious and successful . 
To Lebret and the Martignons Castaing said that Hippolyte had made a will in Mme . 
Martignon's favour , but had destroyed it himself some days before his death . 
The Martignons expressed themselves as glad that Hip polyte had done so , for they feared lest such a will should have provoked resentment against them on the part of Auguste . 
By keeping Auguste and Lebret apart , Castaing prevented awkward explanations . 
Castaing had enriched himself considerably by the opportune death of his friend Hippolyte . 
The subject of poisons had always been a favourite branch of Castaing's medical studies , especially vegetable poisons morphia is a vegetable poison . 
Castaing's position relative to Auguste Ballet was now a strong one . 
They were accomplices in the unlawful destruction of Hippolyte's will . 
Auguste believed it to be in his friend's power to ruin him at any time by revealing his dealings with Lebret . 
Whatever the motive , from fear or gratitude , Auguste Ballet was persuaded to make a will leaving Dr . 
Edme Samuel Castaing the whole of his fortune , subject to a few trifling legacies . 
But Auguste's feelings towards his sole legatee were no longer cordial . 
To one or two of his friends he expressed his growing distaste for Cas taing's society . 
Castaing can hardly have failed to observe this change . 
If Auguste's fortune were dissipated by extravagance , or he revoked his will , Castaing stood to lose heavily . 
As time went on Castaing felt less and less sure that he could place much reliance on the favourable disposition or thrift of Auguste . 
He said that he had a patient gravely ill who , not wishing to leave his money to his sister , whom he disliked , intended to leave it to him . 
Malassis reassured him as to the validity of such a will , and gave him the necessary instructions for preparing it . 
On May Castaing sent Malassis the will of Auguste Ballet with the following note , I send you the will of M. Ballets examine it and keep it as his representative . 
The will was dated December , , and made Castaing sole legatee . 
On the same day that the will was deposited with Malassis , Castaing and Auguste Ballet started to gether on a little two days' trip into the country . 
They spent the following day , Friday , May , in walking about the neighbourhood , dined at the hotel at seven , went out again and returned about nine o'clock . 
Soon after their return Castaing ordered some warmed wine to be sent up to the bedroom . 
It was taken up by one of the maid servants . 
Two glasses were mixed with lemon and sugar which Castaing had brought with him . 
Both the young men drank of the beverage . 
Auguste complained that it was sour , and thought that he had put too much lemon in it . 
He gave his glass to the servant to taste , who also found the drink sour . 
Shortly after she left the room and went upstairs to the bedside of one of her fellow servants who was ill . 
Castaing , for no apparent reason , followed her up and stayed in the room for about five minutes . 
Auguste spent a bad night , suffering from internal pains , and in the morning his legs were so swollen that he could not put on his boots . 
Castaing got up at four o'clock that morning and asked one of the servants to let him out . 
But he did not tell the chemist that he was Dr . 
Later in the morning Castaing returned to Saint Cloud , a distance of ten miles from Paris , and said that he had been out for a long walk . 
He found Auguste ill in bed . 
Castaing asked for some cold milk , which was taken up to the bedroom by one of the servants . 
Shortly after this Castaing went out again . 
During his absence Auguste was seized with violent pains and sickness . 
When Castaing returned he found his friend in the care of the people of the hotel . 
He told them to throw away the matter that had been vomited , as the smell was offensive , and Auguste told them to do as his friend directed . 
Castaing proposed to send for a doctor from Paris , but Auguste insisted that a local doctor should be called in at once . 
Pigache of Saint Cloud was summoned . 
He arrived at the hotel about eleven o'clock . 
Before seeing the patient Castaing told the doctor that he believed him to be suffering from cholera . 
Pigache asked to see the matter vomited but was told that it had been thrown away . 
He prescribed a careful diet , lemonade and a soothing draught . 
Pigache returned at three o'clock , when he found that the patient had taken some lemonade , but , according to Castaing , had refused to take the draught . 
He called again that afternoon . 
Ballet was much better he said that he would be quite well if he could get some sleep , and expressed a wish to return to Paris . 
Pigache dissuaded him from this and left , saying that he would come again in the evening . 
Castaing said that that would be unnecessary , and it was agreed that Pigache should see the patient again at eight o'clock the next morning . 
During the afternoon Castaing sent a letter to Paris to Jean , Auguste's negro servant , telling him to take the two keys of his master's desk to his cousin Malassis . 
But the negro distrusted Castaing . 
He knew of the will which his master had made in the doctor's favour . 
Rather than compromise himself by any injudicious act , he brought the keys to Saint Cloud and there handed them over to Castaing . 
When Jean arrived his master complained to him of feeling very ill . 
Jean said that he hoped he would be well enough to go back to Paris the following day , to which Auguste replied , I don't think so . 
But if I am lucky enough to get away to morrow , I shall leave fifty francs for the poor here . 
About eleven o'clock that night Castaing , in Jean's presence , gave the sick man a spoonful of the draught prescribed by Dr . 
Four or five minutes later Auguste was seized with terrible convulsions , followed by unconsciousness . 
The doctor asked Castaing the cause of the sudden change in Ballet's condition . 
Castaing replied that it had commenced shortly after he had taken a spoonful of the draught which the doctor had prescribed for him . 
Pigache bled the patient and applied twenty leeches . 
He returned about six Ballet was sinking , and Castaing appeared to be greatly upset . 
To M. Pelletan , a professor of medicine , who had been sent for to St . 
Cloud in the early hours of Sunday morning , Castaing appeared to be in a state of great grief and agitation he was shedding tears . 
Pelletan was from the first impressed by the suspicious nature of the case , and pointed out to Castaing the awkwardness of his situation as heir to the dying man . 
You're right , replied Castaing , my position is dreadful , horrible . 
In my great grief I had never thought of it till now , but now you make me see it clearly . 
Do you think there will be an investigation ? Pelletan answered that he should be compelled to ask for a post mortem . 
Ah ! You will be doing me the greatest service , said Castaing , I beg you to insist on a post mortem . 
You will be acting as a second father to me in doing so . 
The parish priest was sent for to administer extreme unction to the dying man . 
About mid day on Sunday , June , Auguste Ballet died . 
The letter was from Castaing and said , My dear friend , Ballet has just died , but do nothing before to morrow , Monday . 
I will see you and tell you , yes or no , whether it is time to act . 
I expect that his brother in law , M. Martignon , whose face is pock marked and who carries a decoration , will call and see you . 
I have not said that we are cousins , but only that I had seen you once or twice at Ballet's , with whom you were friendly . 
So say nothing till I have seen you , but whatever you do , don't say you are a relative of mine . 
When he returned to the hotel Castaing found Martignon , Lebret , and one or two friends of Auguste already assembled . 
It was only that morning that Martignon had received from Castaing any intimation of his brother in law's critical condition . 
Asked if Auguste had left a will Castaing said no but the next day he admitted its existence , and said that it was in the hands of Malassis . 
Monday , June , was the day fixed for the post mortem it was performed in the hotel at Saint Cloud . 
Castaing was still in the hotel under provisional arrest . 
At last M. Pelletan obtained permission to inform him of the verdict of the doctors . 
It was favourable to Castaing no trace of death by violence or poison had been discovered . 
II THE TRIAL OF DR . 
CASTAING Castaing expected , as a result of the doctors' report , immediate release . 
In this he was disappointed he was placed under stricter arrest and taken to Paris , where a preliminary investigation commenced , lasting five months . 
During the early part of his imprisonment Castaing feigned insanity , going to disgusting lengths in the hope of convincing those about him of the reality of his madness . 
But after three days of futile effort he gave up the attempt , and turned his attention to more practical means of defence . 
To Goupil Castaing described the cruelty of his position and the causes that had led to his wrongful arrest . 
He admitted his unfortunate possession of the poison , and said that the , francs which he had invested he had inherited from an uncle . 
Through Goupil he succeeded in communicating with his mother in the hope that she would use her influence to stifle some of the more serious evidence against him . 
The trial of Castaing commenced before the Paris Assize Court on November , . 
He was charged with the murder of Hippolyte Ballet , the destruction of a document containing the final dispositions of Hippolyte's property , and with the murder of Auguste Ballet . 
The three charges were to be tried simultaneously . 
The Act of Accusation in Castaing's case is a remarkable document , covering a hundred closely printed pages . 
It is a well reasoned , graphic and unfair statement of the case for the prosecution . 
It tells the whole story of the crime , and inserts everything that can possibly prejudice the prisoner in the eyes of the jury . 
During the reading of the Act of Accusation by the Clerk of the Court Castaing listened calmly . 
Only when some allusion was made to his mistress and their children did he betray any sign of emotion . 
As soon as the actual facts of the case were set out he was all attention , making notes busily . 
The interrogatory of Castaing by the presiding judge lasted all the afternoon of the first day of the trial and the morning of the second . 
The opening part of it dealt with the murder of Hippolyte Ballet , and elicited little or nothing that was fresh . 
Asked to explain the assertion of Mlle . 
What motive , he was asked , could Mlle . 
Percillie have for accusing you ? She hated me , was the reply , because I had tried to separate Auguste from her . 
Castaing denied that he had driven with Auguste to Lebret's office on October . 
Why , when first asked if you had received anything from Auguste , did you say you had received nothing ? was the question . 
It was a thoughtless statement , was the answer . 
It is important to your case that you should give the jury a satisfactory explanation on this point . 
Castaing could only repeat his previous explanations . 
The interrogatory was then directed to the death of Auguste Ballet . 
Castaing said that Auguste Ballet had left him all his fortune on account of a disagreement with his sister . 
Castaing replied that he was sent for by the wife of the hotel keeper . 
This the woman denied she said that she did not even know that he was a doctor . 
According to the prosecution , said the judge , you left the room in order to avoid drinking your share of the wine . 
Castaing said that he had drunk half a cupful of it . 
The judge reminded him that to one of the witnesses Castaing had said that he had drunk only a little . 
A ridiculous statement made by Castaing to explain the purchase of morphia and antimony in Paris on May was brought up against him . 
He had accordingly gone all the way , about ten miles , to Paris at four in the morning to purchase antimony and morphia to kill cats and dogs . 
All the people of the hotel denied that there had been any such disturbance on the night in question . 
Castaing now said that he had bought the poisons at Auguste's request , partly to kill the noisy cats and dogs , and partly for the purpose of their making experiments on animals . 
Why go to Paris for the poison ? asked the judge , there was a chemist a few yards from the hotel . 
Castaing was obliged to admit that he had allowed , if not ordered , the evacuations of the sick man to be thrown away . 
The medical evidence at the trial was favourable to the accused . 
The liquids , taken from the stomach of Ballet , had yielded on analysis no trace of poison of any sort . 
The convulsive symptoms present in Ballet's case were un doubtedly a characteristic result of a severe dose of acetate of morphia . 
But the evidence did not go further . 
It was asserted some years later by one medical authority in Palmer's case that it might have been morphia and not strychnine that had caused the tetanic symptoms which preceded Cook's death . 
To the young priest like doctor the ordeal of his trial was a severe one . 
It was only at midday on the sixth day that the evidence was concluded . 
This he did briefly , with varying success as the trial went on , with increasing embarrassment . 
A great deal of the evidence given against Castaing was hearsay , and would have been inadmissible in an English court of justice . 
Statements made by Auguste to other persons about Castaing were freely admitted . 
But more serious was the evidence of Mlle . 
Asked what he had to say to this statement Castaing denied its truth . 
He had , he said , only been in Mlle . 
Percillie's house once , and then not with Auguste Ballet . 
Percillie adhered to the truth of her evidence , and the President left it to the jury to decide between them . 
Durand , a patient of Castaing , gave some curious evidence as to a story told her by the young doctor . 
He said that a friend of his , suffering from lung disease , had been persuaded into making a will in his sister's favour . 
Castaing , in his friend's interest , and in order to expose the fraud , invited the clerk to come and see him . 
His friend , hidden in an alcove in the room , overheard the conversation between Castaing and the clerk , and so learnt the details of his sister's intrigue . 
He at once destroyed the will and became reconciled with his brother , whom he had been about to disinherit . 
After his death the brother , out of gratitude , had given Castaing , francs . 
President Castaing , did you tell this story to Mme . 
Durand ? Castaing I don't recollect . 
Durand says that you did . 
President You always say that you don't recollect that is no answer . 
Have you , yes or no , made such a statement to Mme . 
Durand ? Castaing I don't recollect if I had said it , I should recollect it . 
At the same time Castaing found it impossible to prove that he had ever made a substantial living by the exercise of his profession . 
To this the President replied that that was a question of criminal law , and no concern of his . 
which goes to determine the conviction of an honest man . 
To poisoners he would say in future Bunglers that you are , don't use arsenic or any mineral poison they leave traces you will be found out . 
We have , he said , gone through a large number of facts . 
They can only be refuted by arguments or explanations that are childish and ridiculous . 
Castaing was defended by two advocates Roussel , a schoolfellow of his , and the famous Berryer , reckoned by some the greatest French orator since Mirabeau . 
Both advocates were allowed to address the jury . 
Roussel insisted on the importance of the corpus delicti . 
The advocate made a good deal of the fact that the remains of the draught prescribed by Dr . 
Pigache , a spoonful of which Castaing had given to Auguste Ballet , had been analysed and showed no trace of poison . 
Against this the prosecution set the evidence of the chemist at Saint Cloud , who had made up the prescription . 
He said that the same day he had made up a second prescription similar to that of Dr . 
Pigache , but not made out for Auguste Ballet , which contained , in addition to the other ingredients , acetate of morphia . 
The original of this prescription he had given to a friend of Castaing , who had come to his shop and asked him for it a few days after Ballet's death . 
It would seem therefore that there had been two bottles of medicine , one of which containing morphia had disappeared . 
M. Roussel combatted the suggestion that the family of Castaing were in a state of indigence . 
The mistress of Castaing he represented as enjoying an income of , francs . 
He protested against the quantity of hearsay evidence that had been admitted into the case . 
Castaing , Briant and Leuchere , in order to recognise the faithful loyalty of my servants , and deprive M. and Mme . 
It makes an unfavourable impression , because it is dramatically out of keeping with the tragedy of the story . 
But we are not here to construct a drama . 
No , gentlemen , look at it merely as a trivial incident of ordinary , everyday life , and you will see it in its proper light . 
M. Roussel concluded by saying that Castaing's most eloquent advocate , if he could have been present , would have been Auguste Ballet . 
The next morning Berryer addressed the jury . 
His speech in defence of Castaing is not considered one of his most successful efforts . 
He gave personal testimony as to the taste of acetate of morphia . 
If there is drama in this case , it is of Castaing's making . 
They returned into court after two hours' deliberation . 
They found the prisoner Not Guilty of the murder of Hippolyte Ballet , Guilty of destroying his will , and Guilty by seven votes to five of the murder of Auguste Ballet . 
I shall go to meet my two friends . 
I am accused of having treacherously murdered them . 
There is a Providence above us ! If there is such a thing as an immortal soul , I shall see Hippolyte and Auguste Ballet again . 
, I look to God's mercy , and shall go joyfully to the scaffold . 
It will not reproach me even when I feel . 
Alas ! It is easier to feel what I am feeling than to express what I dare not express . 
You have desired my death you have it ! The judges retired to consider the sentence . 
The candles were guttering , the light of the lamps was beginning to fade the aspect of the court grim and terrible . 
M. Roussel broke down and burst into tears . 
Castaing leant over to his old schoolfellow Courage , Roussel , he said you have always believed me innocent , and I am innocent . 
Embrace for me my father , my mother , my brothers , my child . 
All I ask is to die soon . 
I should be ashamed to plead for mercy . 
Castaing was condemned to death , and ordered to pay , francs damages to the family of Auguste Ballet . 
Castaing was not ashamed to appeal to the Court of Cassation for a revision of his trial , but on December his appeal was rejected . 
Two days later he was executed . 
He had attempted suicide by means of poison , which one of his friends had brought to him in prison , concealed inside a watch . 
His courage failed him at the last , and he met his death in a state of collapse . 
It is not often , happily , that a young man of gentle birth and good education is a double murderer at twenty six . 
And such a soft , humble , insinuating young man too ! good to his mother , good to his mistress , fond of his children , kind to his patients . 
Yet this gentle creature can deliberately poison his two friends . 
Was ever such a contradictory fellow ? Professor Webster The best report of Webster's trial is that edited by Bemis . 
It is not often that the gaunt spectre of murder invades the cloistered calm of academic life . 
Yet such a strange and unwonted tragedy befell Harvard University in the year , when John W. Webster , Professor of Chemistry , took the life of Dr . 
George Parkman , a distinguished citizen of Boston . 
The scene of the crime , the old Medical School , now a Dental Hospital , is still standing , or was when the present writer visited Boston in . 
The first floor consists of two large rooms , separated from each other by the main entrance hall , which is approached by a flight of steps leading up from the street level . 
Of these two rooms , the left , as you face the building , is fitted up as a lecture room . 
In the year it was the lecture room of Professor Webster . 
Behind the lecture room is a laboratory , known as the upper laboratory , communicating by a private staircase with the lower laboratory , which occupies the left wing of the ground floor . 
These rooms are little altered at the present time from their arrangement in . 
On the second floor of the hospital is a museum , once anatomical , now dental . 
One of the principal objects of interest in this museum is a plaster cast of the jaws of Dr . 
George Parkman , made by a well known dentist of Boston , Dr . 
Keep , in the year . 
In that year the new medical college was formally opened . 
Parkman , a wealthy and public spirited citizen of Boston , had given the piece of land , on which the college had been erected . 
He had been invited to be present at the opening ceremony . 
In anticipation of being asked to make a speech on this occasion Dr . 
Parkman , whose teeth were few and far between , had himself fitted by Dr . 
Keep with a complete set of false teeth . 
Oliver Wendell Holmes , then Professor of Anatomy at Harvard , who was present at the opening of the college , noticed how very nice and white the doctor's teeth appeared to be . 
It was the discovery of the remains of these same admirable teeth three years later in the furnace in Professor Webster's lower laboratory that led to the conviction of Dr . 
By a strange coincidence the doctor met his death in the very college which his generosity had helped to build . 
Parkman was a well known figure in the streets of Boston . 
His peculiar personal appearance and eccentric habits combined to make him something of a character . 
As he walked through the streets he presented a remarkable appearance . 
A just and generous man , he was extremely punctilious in matters of business , and uncom promising in his resentment of any form of falsehood or deceit . 
It was the force of his resentment in such a case that cost him his life . 
The doctor was unfailingly punctual in taking his meals . 
But on Friday , November , , to his surprise and that of his family , Dr . 
Parkman did not come home to dinner and their anxiety was increased when the day passed , and there was still no sign of the doctor's return . 
From these it appeared that Dr . 
Parkman had been last seen alive between one and two o'clock on the Friday afternoon . 
Shortly before two o'clock he was seen by a workman , at a distance of forty or fifty feet from the Medical College , going in that direction . 
From that moment all certain trace of him was lost . 
His family knew that he had made an appointment for half past one that day , but where and with whom they did not know . 
As a matter of fact , Professor John W. Webster had appointed that hour to receive Dr . 
Parkman in his lecture room in the Medical College . 
He was the author of several works on geology and chemistry , a man now close on sixty years of age . 
His countenance was genial , his manner mild and unassuming he was clean shaven , wore spectacles , and looked younger than his years . 
Professor Webster was popular with a large circle of friends . 
His temper was hasty and irritable . 
Spoilt in his boyhood as an only child , he was self willed and self indulgent . 
His wife and daughters were better liked than he . 
His father , a successful apothecary at Boston , had died in , leaving John , his only son , a fortune of some L , . 
In rather less than ten years Webster had run through the whole of his inheritance . 
He had built himself a costly mansion in Cambridge , spent a large sum of money in collecting minerals , and delighted to exercise lavish hospitality . 
By living consistently beyond his means he found himself at length entirely dependent on his professional earnings . 
His salary as Professor was fixed at L a year the rest of his income he derived from the sale of tickets for his lectures at the Medical College . 
That income was insufficient to meet his wants . 
I have given these sums of money in their English equivalents in order to give the reader an idea of the smallness of the sum which brought about the tragedy . 
As early as he had borrowed L from his friend Dr . 
It was to Parkman's good offices that he owed his appointment as a Professor at Harvard they had entered the University as under graduates in the same year . 
As a security for the repayment of this loan , the professor executed a mortgage on his valuable collection of minerals in favour of Parkman . 
In the April of the Professor's financial difficulties became so serious that he was threatened with an execution in his house . 
In this predicament he went to a Mr. Shaw , Dr . 
Parkman's brother in law , and begged a loan of L , offering him as security a bill of sale on the collection of minerals , which he had already mortgaged to Parkman . 
Shaw accepted the security , and lent the money . 
Parkman was a less easy going creditor . 
Forbearing and patient as long as he was dealt with fairly , he was merciless where he thought he detected trickery or evasion . 
From the moment of the discovery of this act of dishonesty on the part of Webster , Parkman pursued his debtor with unrelenting severity . 
It was early in November that Parkman adopted these aggressive tactics . 
On the th of that month Webster and the janitor of the College , Ephraim Littlefield , were working in the upper laboratory . 
It was dark they had lit candles . 
Webster was reading a chemical book . 
As he looked up from the book he saw Parkman standing in the doorway leading from the lecture room . 
Webster , are you ready for me to night ? asked Parkman . 
No , replied the other , I am not ready to night . 
After a little further conversation in regard to the mortgage , Parkman departed with the ominous remark , Doctor , something must be done to morrow . 
Unfortunately the Professor was not in a position to do anything . 
He had no means sufficient to meet his creditor's demands and that creditor was unrelenting . 
On the nd Parkman rode into Cambridge , where Webster lived , to press him further , but failed to find him . 
Webster's patience , none too great at any time , was being sorely tried . 
To whom could he turn ? What further resource was open to him ? There was none . 
He determined to see his creditor once more . 
At o'clock on the morning of Friday the rd , Webster called at Dr . 
Parkman's house and made the appointment for their meeting at the Medical College at half past one , to which the Doctor had been seen hastening just before his disappearance . 
Parkman , he must decline to receive any further sums of money on his behalf . 
Webster replied that Parkman was a nervous , excitable man , subject to mental aberrations , but he added , You will have no further trouble with Dr . 
Parkman , for I have settled with him . 
It is difficult to see how the Professor could have settled , or proposed to settle , with his creditor on that day . 
A balance of L at his bank , and the L which Mr. Pettee had paid to him that morning , represented the sum of Professor Webster's fortune on Friday , November , . 
Since the afternoon of that day the search for the missing Parkman had been unremitting . 
On the Saturday his friends communicated with the police . 
Two days later a further reward was offered . 
But these efforts were fruitless . 
The only person who gave any information beyond that afforded by those who had seen the Doctor in the streets on the morning of his disappearance , was Professor Webster . 
About four o'clock on the Sunday afternoon the Professor called at the house of the Revd . 
Francis Parkman , the Doctor's brother . 
Webster had for a time attended Parkman's chapel and Mr. Parkman had baptised the Professor's grand daughter . 
On this Sunday afternoon Mr. Parkman could not help remarking Webster's peculiar manner . 
With a bare greeting and no expression of condolence with the family's distress , his visitor entered abruptly and nervously on the object of his errand . 
Having communicated this intelligence to the somewhat astonished gentleman , Webster left him as abruptly as he had come . 
Parkman , his nephew , Mr. Parkman Blake , in the course of inquiries as to his uncle's fate , thought it right to see Webster . 
Accordingly he went to the college on Monday , the th , about eleven o'clock in the morning . 
Though not one of his lecture days , the janitor Littlefield informed him that the Professor was in his room . 
The door of the lecture room , however , was found to be locked , and it was only after considerable delay that Mr. Blake gained admittance . 
Instead of advancing to greet his visitor , he stood fixed to the spot , and waited , as if defensively , for Mr. Blake to speak . 
In answer to Mr. Blake's questions Webster described his interview with Dr . 
Parkman on the Friday afternoon . 
He gave a very similar account of it to that he had already given to Mr. Francis Parkman . 
Mr. Blake asked Webster if he could recollect in what form of money it was that he had paid Dr . 
Webster answered that he could only recollect a bill of L on the New Zealand Bank pressed on this point , he seemed to rather avoid any further inquiries . 
Mr. Blake left him , dissatisfied with the result of his visit . 
One particular in Webster's statement was unquestionably strange , if not incredible . 
Now L of this loan was still owing . 
Parkman's visit on the Friday . 
This sum had not ap parently gone towards the making up of the L , which Webster said that he had paid to Parkman that day . 
The means by which Webster had been enabled to settle this debt became more mysterious than ever . 
On Tuesday , November , the Professor received three other visitors in his lecture room . 
These were police officers who , in the course of their search for the missing man , felt it their duty to examine , however perfunctorily , the Medical College . 
As they passed the privy one of the officers asked what place it was . 
Webster's private lavatory , replied the janitor , who was conducting them . 
At that moment Webster's voice called them away to examine the store room in the lower laboratory , and after a cursory examination the officers departed . 
Littlefield , it will be remembered , had seen Dr . 
That Monday morning Webster asked Littlefield a number of questions about the dissecting room vault , which was situated just outside the door of the lower laboratory . 
He asked how it was built , whether a light could be put into it , and how it was reached for the purpose of repair . 
This sledge hammer Littlefield never saw again . 
About a quarter to two that afternoon Littlefield , standing at the front door , after his dinner , saw Dr . 
Parkman coming towards the College . 
At two o'clock Littlefield went up to Dr . 
Oliver Wendell Holmes' room , immediately above Professor Webster's , to help the Doctor to clear his table after his lecture , which was the last delivered that day . 
About a quarter of an hour later he let Dr . 
Holmes out , locked the front door and began to clear out the stoves in the other lecture rooms . 
When he reached Webster's he was surprised to find that both doors , that of the lecture room and that of the lower laboratory , were either locked or bolted . 
He could hear nothing but the running of water in one of the sinks . 
About half past five Littlefield saw the Professor coming down the back stairs with a lighted candle in his hand . 
Webster blew out the candle and left the building . 
Late that night Littlefield again tried the Professor's doors they were still fastened . 
The janitor was surprised at this , as he had never known such a thing to happen before . 
On Saturday , the th , though not lecturing that day , the Professor came to the College in the morning . 
He told Littlefield to light the stove in the lower laboratory . 
The whole of that day and Sunday , the Professor's doors remained fast . 
On Sunday evening at sunset Littlefield , who was talking with a friend in North Grove Street , the street that faces the College , was accosted by Webster . 
During the whole of Monday , except for a visit from Mr. Parkman Blake , Professor Webster was again locked alone in his laboratory . 
Neither that night , nor early Tuesday morning , could Littlefield get into the Professor's rooms to perform his customary duties . 
On Tuesday the Professor lectured at twelve o'clock , and later received the visit of the police officers that has been described already . 
At four o'clock that afternoon , the Professor's bell rang . 
The Pro fessor asked the janitor whether he had bought his turkey for Thanksgiving Day , which was on the following Thursday . 
Littlefield said that he had not done so yet . 
Webster then handed him an order on his provision dealer . 
Take that , he said , and get a nice turkey perhaps I shall want you to do some odd jobs for me . 
Littlefield thanked him , and said that he would be glad to do anything for him that he could . 
Littlefield saw the Professor again about half past six that evening as the latter was leaving the College . 
The janitor asked him if he wanted any more fires lighted in his rooms , because owing to the holidays there were to be no further lectures that week . 
Webster said that he did not , and asked Lit tlefield whether he were a freemason . 
The janitor said Yes , and with that they parted . 
The mysterious activity of the Professor of Chemistry seemed to him more than unusual . 
His perplexity was increased on the following day . 
Though on account of the holidays all work had been suspended at the College for the remainder of the week , Webster was again busy in his room early Wednesday morning . 
Littlefield could hear him moving about . 
On the outer side of this wall was a furnace sometimes used by the Professor in his chemical experiments . 
How came it to be so heated ? The Professor had told Littlefield on Tuesday that he should not be requiring any fires during the remainder of the week . 
The janitor determined to resolve his suspicions . 
He climbed up to the back windows of the lower laboratory , found one of them unfastened , and let himself in . 
But , beyond evidences of the considerable fires that had been kept burning during the last few days , Littlefield saw nothing to excite peculiar attention . 
Those he met in the street kept on telling him that Dr . 
Parkman would be found in the Medical College . 
His attention had fixed itself particularly on the lavatory at the foot of the stairs connecting the upper and lower laboratories . 
This room he found to be locked and the key , a large one , had disappeared . 
He recollected that when the police officers had paid their visit to the col lege , the Professor had diverted their attention as they were about to inspect this room . 
This he determined to do . 
On Thursday , Thanksgiving Day , Littlefield commenced operations with a hatchet and a chisel . 
Progress was slow , as that evening he had been invited to attend a festal gathering . 
On Friday the janitor , before resuming work , acquainted two of the Professors of the college with his proposed investigation , and received their sanction . 
As Webster , however , was going constantly in and out of his rooms , he could make little further progress that day . 
The Professor had come into town early in the morning . 
Not till then was the watchful janitor able to resume his labours . 
Armed with a crow bar , he worked vigorously until he succeeded in penetrating the wall sufficiently to admit a light into the vault of the lavatory . 
The first objects which the light revealed to his eyes , were the pelvis of a man and two parts of a human leg . 
Leaving his wife in charge of the remains , Littlefield went immediately to the house of Professor Bigelow , and informed him of the result of his search . 
They returned to the college some twenty minutes later , accompanied by the City Marshal . 
The City Marshal at once dispatched three of his officers to Cambridge , to the house of Professor Webster . 
To his immediate circle of friends and relations the conduct of the Professor during this eventful week had betrayed no unwonted discomposure or disturbance of mind . 
His evenings had been spent either at the house of friends , or at his own , playing whist , or reading Milton's Allegro and Penseroso to his wife and daugh ters . 
It was proposed , they said , to make a further search there that evening , and his presence was considered advisable . 
Webster assented immediately , put on his boots , his hat and coat , and got into the hired coach . 
As they entered Boston , he remarked that they were taking the wrong direction for reaching the college . 
One of the officers replied that the driver might be green , but that he would find his way to the college in time . 
At length the coach stopped . 
One of the offi cers alighted , and invited his companions to follow him into the office of the Leverett Street Jail . 
The Professor asked what it all meant he was informed that he must consider himself in custody , charged with the murder of Dr . 
Webster , somewhat taken aback , desired that word should be sent to his family , but was dissuaded from his purpose for the time being . 
He was searched , and among other articles taken from him was a key some four or five inches long it was the missing lavatory key . 
Whilst one of the officers withdrew to make out a mittimus , the Professor asked one of the others if they had found Dr . 
The officer begged him not to question him . 
You might tell me something about it , pleaded Webster . 
Nobody , he replied , but the porter who makes the fire . 
Then , after a pause , he ex claimed That villain ! I am a ruined man . 
He was walking up and down wringing his hands , when one of the officers saw him put one hand into his waistcoat pocket , and raise it to his lips . 
A few moments later the unhappy man was seized with violent spasms . 
He was unable to stand , and was laid down in one of the cells . 
From this distressing state he was roused shortly before eleven , to be taken to the college . 
He was quite incapable of walking , and had to be supported by two of the officers . 
He was present there while his rooms were searched but his state was painful in the extreme . 
He asked for water , but trembled so convulsively that he could only snap at the tumbler like a dog his limbs were rigid tears and sweat poured down his cheeks . 
On the way back to the jail , one of the officers , moved by his condition , expressed his pity for him . 
Do you pity me ? Are you sorry for me ? What for ? asked Webster . 
To see you so excited , replied the officer . 
Oh ! that's it , said the Professor . 
The whole night through the prisoner lay without moving , and not until the following afternoon were his limbs relaxed sufficiently to allow of his sitting up . 
As his condition improved , he grew more confident . 
That is no more Dr . 
Parkman's body , he said , than mine . 
How in the world it came there I don't know , and he added I never liked the looks of Littlefield the janitor I opposed his coming there all I could . 
Two days later the Professor furnished unwittingly some additional evidence against himself . 
I got my clothes off , for the first time , and awoke in the morning quite hungry . 
It was a long time before my first breakfast from Parker's came and it was relished , I can assure you . 
At one o'clock I was notified that I must appear at the court room . 
All was arranged with great regard to my comfort , and went off better than I had anticipated . 
On my return I had a bit of turkey and rice from Parker's . 
They send much more than I can eat , and I have directed the steward to distribute the surplus to any poor ones here . 
If you will send me a small canister of tea , I can make my own . 
A little pepper I may want some day . 
I would send the dirty clothes , but they were taken to dry . 
Tell Mama NOT TO OPEN the little bundle I gave her the other day , but to keep it just as she received it . 
With many kisses to you all . 
Good night ! From your affectionate FATHER . 
P. S. My tongue troubles me yet very much , and I must have bitten it in my distress the other night it is painful and swollen , affecting my speech . 
Had Mama better send for Nancy ? I think so or Aunt Amelia . 
Couple of coloured neck handkerchiefs , one Madras . 
This letter , which shows an anxiety about his personal comfort singular in one so tragically situated , passed through the hands of the keeper of the jail . 
He was struck by the words underlined , NOT TO OPEN , in regard to the small bundle confided to Mrs. Webster . 
He called the attention of the police to this phrase . 
They sent immediately an officer armed with a search warrant to the Professor's house . 
There were daubs and erasures made across these documents , and across one was written twice over the word paid . 
All these evidences of payments and cancellations appeared on examination to be in the handwriting of the Professor . 
After an inquest lasting nine days the coroner's jury declared the remains found in the college to be those of Dr . 
George Parkman , and that the deceased had met his death at the hands of Professor J. W. Webster . 
The prisoner waived his right to a magisterial investigation , and on January , , the Grand Jury returned a true bill . 
But it was not until March that the Professor's trial opened before the Supreme Court of Massachusetts . 
The proceedings were conducted with that dignity and propriety which we look for in the courts of that State . 
The principal features in the defence were an attempt to impugn the testimony of the janitor Littlefield , and to question the possibility of the identification of the remains of Parkman's teeth . 
The witness Littlefield was unshaken by a severe cross examination . 
The very reluctance with which Dr . 
Keep gave his fatal evidence , and the support given to his conclusions by distinguished testimony told strongly in favour of the absolute trustworthiness of his statements . 
The evidence called to prove that the murdered man had been seen alive late on Friday afternoon was highly inconclusive . 
Contrary to the advice of his counsel , Webster addressed the jury himself . 
He complained of the conduct of his case , and enumerated various points that his counsel had omitted to make , which he conceived to be in his favour . 
After his condemnation Webster confessed to the authorship of at least one of them . 
The jury retired at eight o'clock on the eleventh day of the trial . 
On hearing their verdict , the Professor sank into a seat , and , dropping his head , rubbed his eyes behind his spectacles as if wiping away tears . 
On the following morning the Chief Justice sentenced him to death after a well meaning speech of quite unnecessary length and elaboration , at the conclusion of which the condemned man wept freely . 
A petition for a writ of error having been dismissed , the Professor in July addressed a petition for clemency to the Council of the State . 
Putnam , who had been attending Webster in the jail , read to the Council a confession which he had persuaded the prisoner to make . 
In this statement Professor Webster denied all premeditation . 
Putnam asked him solemnly whether he had not , immediately before the crime , meditated at any time on the advantages that would accrue to him from Parkman's death . 
Webster replied Never , before God ! He had , he protested , no idea of doing Parkman an injury until the bitter tongue of the latter provoked him . 
I am irritable and violent , he said , a quickness and brief violence of temper has been the besetting sin of my life . 
He explained his convulsive seizure at the time of his arrest by his having taken a dose of strychnine , which he had carried in his pocket since the crime . 
In spite of these statements and the prayers of the unfortunate man's wife and daughters , who , until his confession to Dr . 
Putnam , had believed implicity in his innocence , the Council decided that the law must take its course , and fixed August as the day of execution . 
The Professor resigned himself to his fate . 
He sent for Littlefield and his wife , and expressed his regret for any injustice he had done them All you said was true . 
and it is just that I should die upon the scaffold in accordance with that sentence . 
Everybody is right , he said to the keeper of the jail , and I am wrong . 
In a letter to the Reverend Francis Parkman he expressed deep contrition for his guilt . 
He added one sentence which may perhaps fairly express the measure of premeditation that accompanied his crime . 
I had never , he wrote , until the two or three last interviews with your brother , felt towards him anything but gratitude for his many acts of kindness and friendship . 
Professor Webster met his death with fortitude and resignation . 
That he deserved his fate few will be inclined to deny . 
His accusation of Littlefield deprives him of a good deal of sympathy . 
But for the evidence of Dr . 
Keep he would possibly have escaped punishment altogether . 
Save for the portions of his false teeth , there was not sufficient evidence to identify the remains found in the college as those of Parkman . 
Without these teeth the proof of the corpus delicti would have been incomplete , and so afforded Webster a fair chance of acquittal . 
I HONOUR AMONGST THIEVES In the year Mr. Smith , a carpenter , of Philadelphia , had patented a new saw set . 
He entered the house and made the acquaintance of Mr. Perry , a tall , dark , bony man , to whom he explained the merits of his invention . 
Perry listened with interest , and asked for a model . 
In the meantime he suggested that Smith should do some carpenter's work for him in the house . 
Smith agreed , and on August , while at work there saw a man enter the house and go up with Perry to a room on the second story . 
A few days later Smith called at Callowhill Street to ask Perry about the sale of the patent . 
He waited half an hour in the shop below , called out to Perry who , he thought , might be in the rooms above , received no answer and went away . 
Next day , September , Smith returned , found the place just as he had left it the day before called Perry again , but again got no answer . 
The general appearance of the dead man answered to that of B. F. Perry . 
An inquest was held , and a verdict returned that B. F. Perry had died of congestion of the lungs caused by the inhalation of flame or chloroform . 
After lying in the mortuary for eleven days the body was buried . 
In the meantime the Philadelphia branch of the Fidelity Mutual Life Association had received a letter from one Jephtha D. Howe , an attorney at St . 
Louis , stating that the deceased B. F. Perry was Benjamin F. Pitezel of that city , who had been insured in their office for a sum of ten thousand dollars . 
The insurance had been effected in Chicago in the November of . 
Mr. Howe proposed to come to Philadelphia with some members of the Pitezel family to identify the remains . 
They got into communication with Mr. Holmes , and forwarded to him a cutting from a newspaper , which stated erroneously that the death of B. F. Perry had taken place in Chicago . 
On September they received a letter from Mr. Holmes , in which he offered what assistance he could toward the identification of B. F. Perry as B. F. Pitezel . 
Mr. Holmes offered , if his expenses were paid , to come to Chicago to view the body . 
The following day Mr. Jephtha D. Howe , attorney of St . 
Louis , arrived in Philadelphia , accompanied by Alice Pitezel , a daughter of the deceased . 
Howe explained that Pitezel had taken the name of Perry owing to financial difficulties . 
The company said that they accepted the fact that Perry and Pitezel were one and the same man , but were not convinced that the body was Pitezel's body . 
The visit of Holmes was mentioned . 
Howe said that he did not know Mr. Holmes , but would be willing to meet him . 
At this moment Holmes arrived at the office . 
He was introduced to Howe as a stranger , and recognised as a friend by Alice Pitezel , a shy , awkward girl of fourteen or fifteen years of age . 
It was then arranged that all the parties should meet again next day to identify , if possible , the body , which had been disinterred for that purpose . 
The unpleasant duty of identifying the rapidly decomposing remains was greatly curtailed by the readiness of Mr. Holmes . 
The body was then covered up all but the teeth the girl Alice was brought in , and she said that the teeth appeared to be like those of her father . 
The insurance company declared themselves satisfied , and handed to Mr. Howe a cheque for , dollars , and to Mr. Holmes ten dollars for his expenses . 
Smith , the carpenter , had been present at the proceedings at the Potter's Field . 
In the prison at St . 
Louis there languished in the year one Marion Hedgspeth , serving a sentence of twenty years' imprisonment for an audacious train robbery . 
On the night of November , , the 'Friscow express from St . 
Louis had been boarded by four ruffians , the express car blown open with dynamite , and , dollars carried off . 
Hedgspeth and another man were tried for the robbery , and sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment . 
On October , , Hegspeth sic made a statement to the Governor of the St . 
Louis prison , which he said he wished to be communicated to the Fidelity Mutual Life Association . 
Hedgspeth recommended Jephtha D. Howe . 
The latter entered with enthusiasm into the scheme , and told Hedgspeth that he thought Mr. Howard one of the smoothest and slickest men he had ever known . 
From Howe Hedgspeth learnt that the swindle had been carried out successfully , but he had never received from Howard the dollars promised him . 
Consequently , he had but little compunction in divulging the plot to the authorities . 
Though somewhat doubtful of the truth of Hedgspeth's statement , the insurance company decided to set Pinkerton's detectives on the track of Mr. H. H. Holmes . 
After more than a month's search he was traced to his father's house at Gilmanton , N. H. , and arrested in Boston on November . 
Holmes had obtained the property at Fort Worth from a Miss Minnie Williams , and transferred it to Pitezel . 
Pitezel was a drunken crook , of mean intelligence , a mesmeric subject entirely under the influence of Holmes , who claimed to have considerable hypnotic powers . 
Pitezel had a wife living at St . 
Louis and five children , three girls Dessie , Alice , and Nellie a boy , Howard , and a baby in arms . 
At the time of Holmes' arrest Mrs. Pitezel , with her eldest daughter , Dessie , and her little baby , was living at a house rented by Holmes at Burlington , Vermont . 
She also was arrested on a charge of complicity in the insurance fraud and brought to Boston . 
Pitezel , he said , had gone with three of his children Alice , Nellie and Howard to South America . 
This fact , however , Holmes had not communicated to Mrs. Pitezel . 
When she arrived at Boston , the poor woman was in great distress of mind . 
Questioned by the officers , she attempted to deny any complicity in the fraud , but her real anxiety was to get news of her husband and her three children . 
Alice she had not seen since the girl had gone to Philadelphia to identify the supposed remains of her father . 
Shortly after this Holmes had come to Mrs. Pitezel at St . 
Louis , and taken away Nellie and Howard to join Alice , who , he said , was in the care of a widow lady at Ovington , Kentucky . 
Since then Mrs. Pitezel had seen nothing of the children or her husband . 
At Holmes' direction she had gone to Detroit , Toronto , Ogdensberg and , lastly , to Burlington in the hope of meeting either Pitezel or the children , but in vain . 
She believed that her husband had deserted her her only desire was to recover her children . 
He replied that he had done it alone , having learned the trick when studying medicine in Michigan . 
The inspector recollected that the body when removed from Callowhill Street had been straight and rigid . 
He asked Holmes what trick he had learnt in the course of his medical studies by which it was possible to re stiffen a body once the rigor mortis had been broken . 
To this Holmes made no reply . 
But he realised his mistake , and a few weeks later volunteered a second statement . 
He now said that Pitezel , in a fit of depression , aggravated by his drinking habits , had committed suicide on the third story of the house in Callowhill Street . 
There Holmes had found his body , carried it down on to the floor below , and arranged it in the manner agreed upon for deceiving the insurance company . 
Pitezel , he said , had taken his life by lying on the floor and allowing chloroform to run slowly into his mouth through a rubber tube placed on a chair . 
The three children , Holmes now stated , had gone to England with a friend of his , Miss Minnie Williams . 
Miss Minnie Williams was the lady , from whom Holmes was said to have acquired the property in Texas which he and Pitezel had set about developing . 
There was quite a tragedy , according to Holmes , connected with the life of Miss Williams . 
She had come to Holmes in , as secretary , at a drug store which he was then keeping in Chicago . 
Nannie arrived , but unfortunately a violent quarrel broke out between the two sisters , and Holmes came home to find that Minnie in her rage had killed her sister . 
He had helped her out of the trouble by dropping Nannie's body into the Chicago lake . 
After such a distressing occurrence Miss Williams was only too glad of the opportunity of leaving America with the Pitezel children . 
In the meantime Holmes , under the name of Bond , and Pitezel , under that of Lyman , had proceeded to deal with Miss Williams' property in Texas . 
For women Holmes would always appear to have possessed some power of attraction , a power of which he availed himself generously . 
Holmes , whose real name was Herman W. Mudgett , was thirty four years of age at the time of his arrest . 
As a boy he had spent his life farming in Vermont , after which he had taken up medicine and acquired some kind of medical degree . 
After spending some time on the staff of a lunatic asylum in Pennsylvania , Holmes set up as a druggist in Chicago . 
His affairs in this city prospered , and he was enabled to erect , at the corner of Wallace and Sixty Third Streets , the four storied building known later as Holmes Castle . 
It was a singular structure . 
The lower part consisted of a shop and offices . 
Holmes occupied the second floor , and had a laboratory on the third . 
In his office was a vault , air proof and sound proof . 
In the cellar was a large grate . 
In hoping to become Holmes' wife , Miss Minnie Williams was not to enjoy an exclusive privilege . 
At the time of his arrest Holmes had three wives , each ignorant of the others' existence . 
He had married the first in , under the name of Mudgett , and was visiting her at Burlington , Vermont , when the Pinkerton detectives first got on his track . 
The second he had married at Chicago , under the name of Howard , and the third at Denver as recently as January , , under the name of Holmes . 
The third Mrs. Holmes had been with him when he came to Philadelphia to identify Pitezel's body . 
The year opened to find the much enduring Holmes still a prisoner in Philadelphia . 
The great humiliation of being a prisoner was very distressing to Holmes . 
I only know the sky has lost its blue , The days are weary and the night is drear . 
These struck him as two beautiful lines very appropriate to his situation . 
He made a New Year's resolve to give up meat during his close confinement . 
The visits of his third wife brought him some comfort . 
He was agreeably surprised to find that , as an unconvicted prisoner , he could order in his own meals and receive newspapers and periodicals . 
He would like to have been released on bail , but in the same unfriendly spirit was informed that , if he were , he would be detained on a charge of murder . 
And so the months dragged on . 
Holmes , studious , patient , injured , the authorities puzzled , suspicions , baffled still no news of Miss Williams or the three children . 
It was not until June that Holmes was put on his trial for fraud , and the following day pleaded guilty . 
The best way to remove this suspicion is to produce the children at once . 
In spite of these disappointments , Holmes' quiet confidence in his own good faith continued unshaken . 
When the hapless Mrs. Pitezel was released , he wrote her a long letter . 
Knowing me as you do , he said , can you imagine me killing little and innocent children , especially without any motive ? But even Mrs. Pitezel was not wholly reassured . 
II THE WANDERING ASSASSIN The District Attorney and the Insurance Company were not in agreement as to the fate of the Pitezel children . 
The former still inclined to the hope and belief that they were in England with Miss Williams , but the insurance company took a more sinister view . 
The box contained letters from Mrs. Pitezel to her children , which Holmes had presumably intercepted . 
It was decided to make a final attempt to resolve all doubts by sending an experienced detective over the route taken by the children in America . 
He was to make exhaustive inquiries in each city with a view to tracing the visits of Holmes or the three children . 
For this purpose a detective of the name of Geyer was chosen . 
The record of his search is a remarkable story of patient and persistent investigation . 
Alice Pitezel had not seen her mother since she had gone with Holmes to identify her father's remains in Philadelphia . 
From there Holmes had taken her to Indianapolis . 
In the meantime he had visited Mrs. Pitezel at St . 
Holmes , Nellie and Howard had joined Alice at Indianapolis , and from there all four were believed to have gone to Cincinnati . 
It was here , accordingly , on June , , that Geyer commenced his search . 
Knowing Holmes' habit of renting houses , Geyer did not confine his enquiries to the hotels . 
He visited a number of estate agents and learnt that a man and a boy , identified as Holmes and Howard Pitezel , had occupied a house No. Poplar Street . 
The man had given the name of A. C. Hayes . 
He had taken the house on Friday the th , and on the th had driven up to it with the boy in a furniture wagon . 
From Cincinnati Geyer went to Indianapolis . 
Here inquiry showed that on September three children had been brought by a man identified as Holmes to the Hotel English , and registered in the name of Canning . 
This was the maiden name of Mrs. Pitezel . 
The children had stayed at the hotel one night . 
After that Geyer seemed to lose track of them until he was reminded of a hotel then closed , called the Circle House . 
With some difficulty he got a sight of the books of the hotel , and found that the three Canning children had arrived there on October and stayed until the th . 
The children seldom went out they would sit in their room drawing or writing , often they were found crying they seemed homesick and unhappy . 
There are letters of the children written from Indianapolis to their mothers , letters found in Holmes' possession , which had never reached her . 
In these letters they ask their mother why she does not write to them . 
She had written , but her letters were in Holmes' possession . 
Alice writes that she is reading Uncle Tom's Cabin . 
dirty to be seen out on the street to day . 
I don't like to tell you , writes Alice , but you ask me , so I will have to . 
Howard won't mind me at all . 
He wanted a book and I got Life of General Sheridan , and it is awful nice , but now he don't read it at all hardly . 
Better for Howard had he never returned ! We have written two or three letters to you , Alice tells her mother , and I guess you will begin to get them now . 
She will not get them . 
Mr. Holmes is so very particular that the insurance company shall get no clue to the whereabouts of any member of the Pitezel family . 
Geyer knew that from Indianapolis Holmes had gone to Detroit . 
From Detroit Alice had written to her grandparents . 
It was cold and wet , she wrote she and Etta had colds and chapped hands We have to stay in all the time . 
All that Nell and I can do is to draw , and I get so tired sitting that I could get up and fly almost . 
I wish I could see you all . 
I am getting so homesick that I don't know what to do . 
walks by this time , don't he ? I would like to have him here , he would pass away the time a good deal . 
On October there had arrived in that city a weary , anxious looking woman , with a girl and a little baby . 
They took a room at Geis's Hotel , registering as Mrs. Adams and daughter . 
Mrs. Adams seemed in great distress of mind , and never left her room . 
The housekeeper , being shown their photographs , identified the woman and the girl as Mrs. Pitezel and her eldest daughter Dessie . 
The case had aroused considerable interest . 
Among those present at the trial were Halevy , the dramatist , and Mounet Sully and Coquelin , from the Comedie Francaise . 
Her bust is flat , and her back round , her hair quite white . 
Beneath her brows glitter two jet black eyes the eyes of a tigress , that seem to breathe hatred and revenge . 
Asked by the President the motive of his crime , he answered , I was mad for Madame Gras I would have done anything she told me . 
I had known her as a child , I had been brought up with her . 
Then I saw her again . 
I loved her , I was mad for her , I couldn't resist it . 
Her wish was law to me . 
Asked if Gaudry had spoken the truth , the widow said that he lied . 
The President asked what could be his motive for accusing her unjustly . 
Lachaud begged her to answer . 
I cannot , she faltered . 
The President invited her to sit down . 
After a pause the widow seemed to recover her nerve . 
President Was Gaudry at your house while you were at the ball ? Widow No , no ! He daren't look me in the face and say so . 
President But he is looking at you now . 
Widow It is absolutely impossible ! Can anyone believe me guilty of such a thing . 
President Woman Gras , you prefer to feign indignation and deny everything . 
I will read your examination before the examining magistrate . 
I see M. Lachaud makes a gesture , but I must beg the counsel for the defence not to impart unnecessary passion into these proceedings . 
Lachaud My gesture was merely meant to express that the woman Gras is on her trial , and that under the circumstances her indignation is natural . 
The appearance in the witness box of the widow's unhappy victim evoked sympathy . 
He gave his evidence quietly , without resentment or indignation . 
The prisoners could only defend themselves by trying to throw on each other the guilt of the crime . 
M. Demange represented Gaudry as acting under the influence of his passion for the Widow Gras . 
Lachaud , on the other hand , attributed the crime solely to Gaudry's jealousy of the widow's lover , and contended that he was the sole author of the outrage . 
The jury by their verdict assigned to the widow the greater share of responsibility . 
She was found guilty in the full degree , but to Gaudry were accorded extenuating circumstances . 
The widow was condemned to fifteen years' penal servitude , her accomplice to five years' imprisonment . 
It is dreadful to think how very near the Widow Gras came to accomplishing successfully her diabolical crime . 
A little less percipitancy on her part , and she might have secured the fruits of her cruelty . 
Her undoubted powers of fascination , in spite of the fiendishness of her real character , are doubly proved by the devotion of her lover and the guilt of her accomplice . 
Her hatred of men was reasoned , deliberate , merciless and implacable . 
There is something almost sadic in the combination in her character of erotic sensibility with extreme cruelty . 
Vitalis and Marie Boyer I found the story of this case in a brochure published in Paris as one of a series of modern causes celebres . 
I have compared it with the reports of the trial in the Gazette des Tribunaux . 
I In the May of , in the town of Montpellier , M. Boyer , a retired merchant , some forty six years of age , lay dying . 
For some months previous to his death he had been confined to his bed , crippled by rheumatic gout . 
The girl was being educated in a convent at Marseilles . 
One of M. Boyer's friends offered to go there to fetch her . 
On arriving at the convent , he was told that Marie had become greatly attracted by the prospect of a religious life . 
You are happy , the Mother Superior had written to her mother , very happy never to have allowed the impure breath of the world to have soiled this little flower . 
She loves you and her father more than one can say . 
Her father's friend found the girl dressed in the costume of a novice , and was told that she had expressed her desire to take , one day , her final vows . 
Take me away from here ? she exclaimed . 
The Mother Superior , surprised at her apparent reluctance to go , impressed on her the duty of acceding to her father's wish . 
To the astonishment of both , Marie refused to leave the convent . 
In vain the friend and the Mother Superior tried to bend her resolution . 
Happily M. Boyer died before he could learn of his daughter's singular refusal . 
But it had made an unfavourable impression on the friend's mind . 
M. Boyer left a widow , a dark handsome woman , forty years of age . 
Some twenty years before his death , Marie Salat had come to live with M. Boyer as a domestic servant . 
He fell in love with her , she became his mistress , and a few months before the birth of Marie , M. Boyer made her his wife . 
Madame Boyer was at heart a woman of ardent and voluptuous passions that only wanted opportunity to become careless in their gratification . 
Her husband's long illness gave her such an opportunity . 
At the time of his death she was carrying on an intrigue with a bookseller's assistant , Leon Vitalis , a young man of twenty one . 
Her bed ridden husband , ignorant of her infidelity , accepted gratefully the help of Vitalis , whom his wife described as a relative , in the regulation of his affairs . 
At length the unsuspecting Boyer died . 
The night of his death Madame Boyer spent with her lover . 
The mother had never felt any great affection for her only child . 
During her husband's lifetime she was glad to have Marie out of the way at the convent . 
But the death of M. Boyer changed the situation . 
Madame Boyer had not hitherto taken her daughter's religious devotion very seriously . 
Without delay Madame Boyer exercised her authority , and withdrew Marie from the convent . 
The girl quitted it with every demonstration of genuine regret . 
Removed from the influences of convent life , her religious devotion became a thing of the past . 
In her new surroundings she gave herself up to the enjoyments of music and the theatre . 
She realised that she was a pretty girl , whose beauty well repaid the hours she now spent in the adornment of her person . 
The charms of Marie were not lost on Leon Vitalis . 
Mean and significant in appearance , Vitalis would seem to have been one of those men who , without any great physical recommendation , have the knack of making themselves attractive to women . 
After her husband's death Madame Boyer had yielded herself completely to his influence and her own undoubted passion for him . 
She had given him the money with which to purchase a business of his own as a second hand bookseller . 
This trade the enterprising and greedy young man combined with money lending and he clandestine sale of improper books and photographs . 
To such a man the coming of Marie Boyer was a significant event . 
She was younger , more attractive than her mother in a very few years the whole of her father's fortune would be hers . 
Slowly Vitalis set himself to win the girl's affections . 
The mother's suspicions were aroused her jealousy was excited . 
She sent Marie to complete her education at a convent school in Lyons . 
This was in the April of . 
By this time Marie and Vitalis had become friendly enough to arrange to correspond clandestinely during the girl's absence from home . 
Marie was so far ignorant of the relations of Vitalis with her mother . 
Her daughter sent away , Madame Boyer surrendered herself with complete abandonment to her passion for her lover . 
At Castelnau , close to Montpellier , she bought a small country house . 
There she could give full rein to her desire . 
To the scandal of the occasional passer by she and her lover would bathe in a stream that passed through the property , and sport together on the grass . 
Indoors there were always books from Vitalis' collection to stimulate their lascivious appetites . 
This life of pastoral impropriety lasted until the middle of August , when Marie Boyer came home from Lyons . 
The effect of her extraordinary conduct was , however , the opposite to what she had intended . 
The mind of the young girl was corrupted she was familiarised with vice . 
But in her heart she did not blame Vitalis for what she saw and suffered she pitied , she excused him . 
It was her mother whom she grew to hate , with a hate all the more determined for the cold passionless exterior beneath which it was concealed . 
Madame Boyer's deliberate display of her passion for Vitalis served only to aggravate and intensify in Marie Boyer an unnatural jealousy that was fast growing up between mother and daughter . 
Marie did not return to the school at Lyons . 
In the winter of , Madame Boyer gave up the country house and , with her daughter , settled in one of the suburbs of Montpellier . 
In the January of a theft occurred in her household which obliged Madame Boyer to communicate with the police . 
Spendthrift and incompetent in the management of her affairs , she was hoarding and suspicious about money itself . 
Cash and bonds she would hide away in unexpected places , such as books , dresses , even a soup tureen . 
One of her most ingenious hiding places was a portrait of her late husband , behind which she concealed some bearer bonds in landed security , amounting to about , francs . 
One day in January these bonds disappeared . 
She suspected a theft , and informed the police . 
Three days later she withdrew her complaint , and no more was heard of the matter . 
As Marie and Vitalis were the only persons who could have known her secret , the inference is obvious . 
But there was now a distinct understanding between Marie and himself . 
Vitalis had declared himself her lover and asked her to marry him . 
It sets my mind at rest , for my feelings towards you are the same as ever . 
I don't say they are those of love , for I don't know myself I don't know what such feelings are . 
But I feel a real affection for you which may well turn to love . 
How should I not hold in affectionate remembrance one who has done everything for me ? But love does not come to order . 
So I can't and don't wish to give any positive answer about our marriage all depends on circumstances . 
I don't want any promise from you , I want you to be as free as I am . 
I am not fickle , you know me well enough for that . 
So don't ask me to give you any promise . 
You may find my letter a little cold . 
But I know too much of life to pledge myself lightly . 
I assure you I think on it often . 
Sometimes I blush when I think what marriage means . 
Madame Boyer , displeased at the theft , had let her lover go without any great reluctance . 
No sooner had he gone than she began to miss him . 
Life seemed dull without him . 
Mother and daughter were united at least in their common regret at the absence of the young bookseller . 
To vary the monotony of existence , to find if possible a husband for her daughter , Madame Boyer decided to leave Montpellier for Marseilles , and there start some kind of business . 
The daughter , who foresaw greater amusement and pleasure in the life of a large city , assented willingly . 
One was a cheese shop , the other a milliner's . 
The mother arranged that she should look after the cheese shop , while her daughter presided over the milliner's . 
The two shops were next door to one another . 
Behind the milliner's was a drawing room , behind the cheese shop a kitchen these two rooms communicated with each other by a large dark room at the back of the building . 
In the kitchen was a trap door leading to a cellar . 
The two women shared a bedroom in an adjoining house . 
Vitalis had opposed the scheme of his mistress to start shop keeping in Marseilles . 
He knew how unfitted she was to undertake a business of any kind . 
But neither mother nor daughter would relinquish the plan . 
It remained therefore to make the best of it . 
To the satisfaction of the two women , he announced his intention of coming to Marseilles in the New Year of . 
It was arranged that he should pass as a nephew of Madame Boyer , the cousin of Marie . 
He arrived at Marseilles on January , and received a cordial welcome . 
This done , he told Marie , whose growing attachment to him , strange as it may seem , had turned to love , that now at last they could be free . 
He would sell the two shops , and with the money released by the sale they could go away to gether . 
Suddenly Madame Boyer fell ill , and was confined to her bed . 
Left to themselves , the growing passion of Marie Boyer for Vitalis culminated in her surrender . 
But for the sick mother the happiness of the lovers was complete . 
If only her illness were more serious , more likely to be fatal in its result ! If only God would take her ! said Vitalis . 
Yes , replied her daughter , she has caused us so much suffering ! To Madame Boyer her illness had brought hours of torment , and at last remorse . 
Irreligious till now , her thoughts turned to religion . 
But it was too late . 
Nemesis was swift to overtake the hapless woman . 
Try as he might , Vitalis had found it impossible to sell the shops at anything but a worthless figure . 
He had no money of his own , with which to take Marie away . 
He knew that her mother had resolved on his instant dismissal . 
To Vitalis dismissal meant ruin , to Marie it meant the loss of her lover . 
During her illness the two young people had wished Madame Boyer dead , but she had recovered . 
Providence or Nature having refused to assist Vitalis , he resolved to fall back on art . 
He gave up a whole night's rest to the consideration of the question . 
As a result of his deliberations he suggested to the girl of seventeen the murder of her mother . 
This must end , said Vitalis . 
Yes , it must , replied Marie . 
Vitalis asked her if she had any objection to such a crime . 
Marie hesitated , the victim was her mother . 
Vitalis reminded her what sort of a mother she had been to her . 
The girl said that she was terrified at the sight of blood Vitalis promised that her mother should be strangled . 
That night on some slight pretext Madame Boyer broke out into violent reproaches against her daughter . 
She little knew that every reproach she uttered served only to harden in her daughter's heart her unnatural resolve . 
On the morning of March Madame Boyer rose early to go to Mass . 
Before she went out , she reminded Vitalis that this was his last day in her service , that when she returned she would expect to find him gone . 
It was after seven when she left the house . 
The lovers had no time to lose the deed must be done immediately on the mother's return . 
At one o'clock Madame Boyer came back . 
She expressed her astonishment and disgust that Vitalis still lingered , and threatened to send for the police to turn him out . 
Vitalis told the shop boy that he could go away for a few hours they had some family affairs to settle . 
Madame Boyer , tired after her long morning in the town , was resting on a sofa in the sitting room , at the back of the milliner's shop . 
Vitalis entered the room , and after a few heated words , struck her a violent blow in the chest . 
She fell back on the sofa , calling to her daughter to come to her assistance . 
The daughter sought to drown her mother's cries by banging the doors , and opening and shutting drawers . 
Vitalis , who was now trying to throttle his victim , called to Marie to shut the front doors of the two shops . 
To do so Marie had to pass through the sitting room , and was a witness to the unsuccessful efforts of Vitalis to strangle her mother . 
Having closed the doors , she retired into the milliner's shop to await the issue . 
After a few moments her lover called to her for the large cheese knife he had caught up a kitchen knife , but in his struggles it had slipped from his grasp . 
Quickly Marie fetched the knife and returned to the sitting room . 
There a desperate struggle was taking place between the man and woman . 
At one moment it seemed as if Madame Boyer would get the better of Vitalis , whom nature had not endowed greatly for work of this kind . 
Marie came to his aid . 
She kicked and beat her mother , until at last the wretched creature released her hold and sank back exhausted . 
With the cheese knife , which her daughter had fetched , Vitalis killed Madame Boyer . 
They were murderers now , the young lovers . 
What to do with the body ? The boy would be coming back soon . 
The cellar under the kitchen seemed the obvious place of concealment . 
With the help of a cord the body was lowered into the cellar , and Marie washed the floor of the sitting room . 
He asked where Madame Boyer was . 
To the boy , who knew enough of the inner history of the household to enjoy the piquancy of the situation , such a trick seemed quite amusing . 
He went away picturing in his mind the scene at the railway station and its humorous possibilities . 
At seven o'clock Vitalis and Marie Boyer were alone once more with the murdered woman . 
They had the whole night before them . 
Vitalis had already considered the matter of the disposal of the body . 
He had bought a pick and spade . 
He intended to bury his former mistress in the soil under the cellar . 
After that had been done , he and Marie would sell the business for what it would fetch , and go to Brussels an admirable plan , which two unforeseen circumstances defeated . 
The Rue de la Republique was built on a rock , blasted out for the purpose . 
The shop boy had gone to the station that evening to enjoy the joke which , he believed , was to be played on his mistress . 
When Vitalis tried to dig a grave into the ground beneath the cellar he realised the full horror of the disappointment . 
What was to be done ? They must throw the body into the sea . 
The guilty couple decided to dismember the body of Madame Boyer and so disfigure her face as to render it unrecognisable . 
In the presence of Marie , Vitalis did this , and the two lovers set out at midnight to discover some place convenient for the reception of the remains . 
They found the harbour too busy for their purpose , and decided to wait until the morrow , when they would go farther afield . 
They returned home and retired for the night , occupying the bed in which Madame Boyer had slept the night before . 
When the shop boy arrived , he asked Vitalis for news of Madame Boyer . 
This the boy knew to be false he had been to the station himself to enjoy the fun , and had seen neither Vitalis nor Madame Boyer . 
He began to suspect some mystery . 
In the evening , when the shops had been closed , and he had been sent about his business , he waited and watched . 
In a short time he saw Vitalis and Marie Boyer leave the house , the former dragging a hand cart containing two large parcels , while Marie walked by his side . 
They travelled some distance with their burden , leaving the city behind them , hoping to find some deserted spot along the coast where they could conceal the evidence of their crime . 
Their nerves were shaken by meeting with a custom house officer , who asked them what it was they had in the cart . 
Vitalis answered that it was a traveller's luggage , and the officer let them pass on . 
But soon after , afraid to risk another such experience , the guilty couple turned out the parcels into a ditch , covered them with stones and sand , and hurried home . 
The next day , the shop boy and the inquisitive neighbour having consulted together , went to the Commissary of Police and told him of the mysterious disappearance of Madame Boyer . 
He called back the boy and took him to view the body at the Morgue . 
The boy was able , by the clothes , to identify the body as that of his late mistress . 
The Commissary went straight to the shops in the Rue de la Republique , where he found the young lovers preparing for flight . 
At first they denied all knowledge of the crime , and said that Madame Boyer had gone to Montpellier . 
They were arrested , and it was not long before they both confessed their guilt to the examining magistrate . 
Vitalis and Marie Boyer were tried before the Assize Court at Aix on July , . 
At her trial she seemed to be still so greatly under the influence of Vitalis that during her interrogatory the President sent him out of court . 
To the examining magistrate Marie Boyer , in describing her mother's mur der , had written , I cannot think how I came to take part in it . 
I , who wouldn't have stayed in the presence of a corpse for all the money in the world . 
Vitalis was condemned to death , and was executed on August . 
He died fearful and penitent , acknowledging his miserable career to be a warning to misguided youth . 
Extenuating circumstances were accorded to Marie Boyer , and she was sentenced to penal servitude for life . 
Her conduct in prison was so repentant and exemplary that she was released in . 
M. Proal , a distinguished French judge , and the author of some important works on crime , acted as the examining magistrate in the case of Vitalis and Marie Boyer . 
, and in Mace's book , Femmes Criminelles . 
It is alluded to in Souvenirs d'un President d'Assises , by Berard des Glajeux . 
The murder of the chemist Aubert by Marin Fenayrou and his wife Gabrielle was perpetrated near Paris in the year . 
In its beginning the story is commonplace enough . 
Fenayrou was the son of a small chemist in the South of France , and had come to Paris from the Aveyron Department to follow his father's vocation . 
He obtained a situation as apprentice in the Rue de la Ferme des Mathurins in the shop of a M. Gibon . 
On the death of M. Gibon his widow thought she saw in Fenayrou a man capable of carrying on her late husband's business . 
She gave her daughter in marriage to her apprentice , and installed him in the shop . 
The ungrateful son in law , sure of his wife and his business and contrary to his express promise , turned the old lady out of the house . 
This occurred in the year , Fenayrou being then thirty years of age , his wife , Gabrielle , seventeen . 
They were an ill assorted and unattractive couple . 
It was in , when the disillusionment of Mme . 
Fenayrou was complete , that her husband received into his shop a pupil , a youth of twenty one , Louis Aubert . 
He was the son of a Norman tradesman . 
The ambitious father had wished his son to enter the church , but the son preferred to be a chemist . 
Such was Aubert , Fenayrou's pupil . 
He was soon to become something more than pupil . 
Fenayrou as chemist had not answered to the expectations of his mother in law . 
His innate laziness and love of coarse pleasures had asserted themselves . 
At first his wife had shared in the enjoyments , but as time went on and after the birth of their two children , things became less prosperous . 
She was left at home while Fenayrou spent his time in drinking bocks of beer , betting and attending race meetings . 
It was necessary , under these circumstances , that someone should attend to the business of the shop . 
In Aubert Fenayrou found a ready and willing assistant . 
Did Fenayrou know of this intrigue or not ? That is a crucial question in the case . 
If he did not , it was not for want of warning from certain of his friends and neighbours , to whom the intrigue was a matter of common knowledge . 
Aubert left the Fenayrous and bought a business of his own on the Boulevard Malesherbes . 
Before his departure Aubert had tried to persuade Mme . 
Gibon to sell up her son in law by claiming from him the unpaid purchase money for her husband's shop . 
He represented Fenayrou as an idle gambler , and hinted that he would find her a new purchaser . 
Such an underhand proceeding was likely to provoke resentment if it should come to the ears of Fenayrou . 
At the end of the year Fenayrou sold his shop and went with his family to live on one of the outer boulevards , that of Gouvion Saint Cyr . 
He had obtained a post in a shady mining company , in which he had persuaded his mother in law to invest , francs . 
He had attempted also to make money by selling fradulent imitations of a famous table water . 
For this offence , at the beginning of , he was condemned by the Correctional Tribunal of Paris to three months' imprisonment and , francs costs . 
In March of the situation of the Fenayrous was parlous , that of Aubert still prosperous . 
Fenayrou had entertained another lover , a gentleman on the staff of a sporting newspaper , one of Fenayrou's turf acquaintances . 
This gentleman had found her a cold mistress , preferring the ideal to the real . 
As a murderess Madame Fenayrou overcame this weakness . 
Two months later , with her assistance , this outraged husband accomplished his purpose with diabolical deliberation . 
This the commissary refused to do . 
Gibon , the mother in law , was sent to Aubert to try to recover the letters , but Aubert declined to give them up , and wrote to Mme . 
It concerns your honour and mine . 
I have no fear of being confronted with your husband and yourself . 
I am ready , when you wish , to justify myself . 
Please do all you can to prevent a repetition of your mother's visit or I shall have to call in the police . 
It is clear that the Fenayrous attached the utmost importance to the recovery of this correspondence , which disappeared with Aubert's death . 
To a friend who had warned him of the danger to which his intimacy with Gabrielle Fenayrou exposed him , Aubert had replied , Bah ! I've nothing to fear . 
I hold them in my power . 
That such a hold existed , Aubert's own statement and the desperate attempts made by the Fenayrous to get back these letters , would seem to prove beyond question . 
Had Aubert consented to return them , would he have saved his life ? It seems probable . 
As it was , he was doomed . 
They had had a row on a race course , in the course of which Aubert had humiliated his former master . 
More than this , Aubert had boasted openly of his relations with Mme . 
Fenayrou , and the fact had reached the ears of the husband . 
Fenayrou believed also , though erroneously , that Aubert had informed against him in the matter of the table water fraud . 
Whether his knowledge of Aubert's relations with his wife was recent or of long standing , he had other grounds of hate against his former pupil . 
Her religious sense , like the images in the hat of Louis XI . 
At the time of his death Aubert contemplated marriage , and had advertised for a wife . 
It required the dictation of the vindictive and malevolent Fenayrou to crystallise her hatred of Aubert into a deliberate participation in his murder . 
Eight or nine miles north west of Paris lies the small town of Chatou , a pleasant country resort for tired Parisians . 
Here Madeleine Brohan , the famous actress , had inhabited a small villa , a two storied building . 
At the beginning of it was to let . 
In the April of that year a person of the name of Hess agreed to take it at a quarterly rent of , francs , and paid in advance . 
Hess was no other than Fenayrou the villa that had belonged to Madeleine Brohan the scene chosen for Aubert's murder . 
Fenayrou was determined to spare no expense in the execution of his design it was to cost him some , francs before he had finished with it . 
As to the actual manner of his betrayer's death , the outraged husband found it difficult to make up his mind . 
It was not to be prompt , nor was unnecessary suffering to be avoided . 
This rather elaborate and uncertain machine was abandoned later in favour of a trap for catching wolves . 
This was to be placed under the table , and seize in its huge iron teeth the legs of the victim . 
In the end simplicity , in the shape of a hammer and sword stick , won the day . 
An assistant was taken in the person of Lucien Fenayrou , a brother of Marin . 
This humble and obliging individual , a maker of children's toys , regarded his brother the chemist with something like veneration as the gentleman and man of education of the family . 
Fenayrou , with characteristic superstition , chose the day of her boy's first communion to broach the subject of the murder to Lucien . 
By what was perhaps more than coincidence , Ascension Day , May , was selected as the day for the crime itself . 
There were practical reasons also . 
It was a Thursday and a public holiday . 
A goat chaise and twenty six feet of gas piping had been purchased by Fenayrou and taken down to the villa . 
Nothing remained but to secure the presence of the victim . 
At the direction of her husband Mme . 
Fenayrou wrote to Aubert on May , a letter in which she protested her undying love for him , and expressed a desire to resume their previous relations . 
Aubert demurred at first , but , as she became more pressing , yielded at length to her suggestion . 
If it cost him nothing , Aubert was the last man to decline an invitation of the kind . 
A trip to Chatou was arranged for Ascension Day , May , by the train leaving Paris from the St . 
Lazare Station , at half past eight in the evening . 
On the afternoon of that day Fenayrou , his wife and his brother sent the children to their grandmother and left Paris for Chatou at three o'clock . 
Arrived there , they went to the villa , Fenayrou carrying the twenty six feet of gas piping wound round him like some huge hunting horn . 
He spent the afternoon in beating out the piping till it was flat , and in making a gag . 
He tried to take up the flooring in the kitchen , but this plan for the concealment of the body was abandoned in favour of the river . 
To the waiter the party seemed in the best of spirits . 
Dinner ended , the two men returned to Chatou by the . 
train , leaving Gabrielle to follow an hour later with Aubert . 
Fenayrou had taken three second class return tickets for his wife , his brother and himself , and a single for their visitor . 
It was during the interval between the departure of her husband and her meeting with Aubert that Mme . 
Fenayrou went into the church of St . 
At half past eight she met Aubert at the St . 
Lazare Station , gave him his ticket and the two set out for Chatou a strange journey Mme . 
Fenayrou was asked what they talked about in the railway carriage . 
Mere nothings , she replied . 
Aubert abused her mother for her own part , she was very agitated tres emotionnee . 
It was about half past nine when they reached their destination . 
The sight of the little villa pleased Aubert . 
Ah ! he said , this is good . 
The woman pushed him into the drawing room . 
He struck a match on his trousers . 
Fenayrou , who had been lurking in the darkness in his shirt sleeves , made a blow at him with the hammer , but it was ineffectual . 
The room was plunged in darkness . 
After a little , her husband called for a light she came in and lit a candle on the mantelpiece . 
Fenayrou was getting the worst of the encounter . 
She ran to his help , and dragged off his opponent . 
He struck again with the hammer . 
Aubert fell , and for some ten minutes Fenayrou stood over the battered and bleeding man abusing and insulting him , exulting in his vengeance . 
Then he stabbed him twice with the sword stick , and so ended the business . 
The murderers had to wait till past eleven to get rid of the body , as the streets were full of holiday makers . 
When all was quiet they put it into the goat chaise , wrapped round with the gas piping , and wheeled it on to the Chatou bridge . 
To prevent noise they let the body down by a rope into the water . 
It was heavier than they thought , and fell with a loud splash into the river . 
Arriving there a little before their time , they went into a neighbouring cafe . 
Fenayrou had three bocks , Lucien one , and Madame another glass of chartreuse . 
Lucien reached his house about two in the morning . 
Well , asked his wife , did you have a good day ? Splendid , was the reply . 
Fenayrou paid a visit to the villa to clean it and put it in order . 
Otherwise he went about his business as usual , attending race meetings , indulging in a picnic and a visit to the Salon . 
It was that of Aubert . 
In spite of a gag tired over his mouth the water had got into the body , and , notwithstanding the weight of the lead piping , it had risen to the surface . 
But there had been nothing further in their conduct to provoke suspicion . 
When , however , the body was dis covered and at the same time an anonymous letter received denouncing the Fenayrous as the murderers of Aubert , the police decided on their arrest . 
On the morning of June M. Mace , then head of the Detective Department , called at their house . 
He found Fenayrou in a dressing gown . 
Mace has left us an account of this singular railway journey . 
It was two o'clock in the afternoon . 
In the carriage were five ladies and a young man who was reading La Vie Parisienne . 
Fenayrou was silent and thoughtful . 
You're thinking of your present position ? asked the detective . 
No , I'm thinking of my mother and my dear children . 
They don't seem to care much about their father , remarked Mace . 
Why ? asked M. Mace . 
Because of his violent temper , was the reply . 
After some further conversation and the departure at Courbevoie of the young man with La Vie Parisienne , Mme . 
Fenayrou asked abruptly Do you think my husband guilty ? I'm sure of it . 
Certainly , an swered M. Mace she looks on the crime as one of revenge . 
But my brother in law , urged the woman , could have had no motive for vengeance against Aubert . 
Mace answered coldly that he would have to explain how he had employed his time on Ascension Day . 
You see criminals everywhere , answered Madame . 
After the train had left St . 
Cloud , where the other occupants of the carriage had alighted , the detective and his prisoner were alone , free of interruption till Versailles should be reached . 
Hitherto they had spoken in whispers now Mace seized the opportunity to urge the woman to unbosom herself to him , to reveal her part in the crime . 
There was an interval of silence then she thanked Mace for the kindness and consideration he had shown her . 
Whether convinced or not of this tyranny of circumstance , Mme . 
Fenayrou obeyed her mentor , and calmly , coldly , without regret or remorse , told him the story of the assassination . 
Towards the end of her narration she softened a little . 
I know I am a criminal , she exclaimed . 
Since this morning I have done nothing but lie . 
I am sick of it it makes me suffer too much . 
That evening the three prisoners Lucien had been arrested at the same time as the other two were brought to Chatou . 
Identified by the gardener as the lessee of the villa , Fenayrou abandoned his protestations of innocence and admitted his guilt . 
The crime was then and there reconstituted in the presence of the examining magistrate . 
With the help of a gendarme , who imper sonated Aubert , Fenayrou repeated the incidents of the murder . 
The goat chaise was wheeled to the bridge , and there in the presence of an indignant crowd , the murderer showed how the body had been lowered into the river . 
The attitude of the three culprits was hardly such as to provoke the sympathies of even a French jury . 
Fenayrou , pale , colourless , insignificant , was cold and impenetrable . 
She described the murder of her lover as if she were giving her cook a household recipe for making apricot Jam . 
Lucien was humble and lachrymose . 
In his interrogatory of the husband the President , M. Berard des Glajeux , showed himself frankly sceptical as to the ingenuousness of Fenayrou's motives in assassinating Aubert . 
Now , what was the motive of this horrible crime ? he asked . 
Instead of which you decoy him into a hideous snare . 
Public opinion suggests that jealousy of your former assistant's success , and mortification at your own failure , were the real motives . 
Remember that among your acquaintances you were suspected of cheating at cards . 
As a chemist you had been convinced of fraud . 
Perhaps Aubert knew something against you . 
Some act of poisoning , or abortion , in which you had been concerned ? Many witnesses have believed this . 
Your mother in law is said to have remarked , My son in law will end in jail . 
Fenayrou This is too dreadful . 
Durand , an old friend of Aubert , remembers the deceased saying to him , One has nothing to fear from people one holds in one's hands . 
Fenayrou I don't know what he meant . 
President Or , considering the cruelty , cowardice , the cold calculation displayed in the commission of the crime , shall we say this was a woman's not a man's revenge . 
You have said your wife acted as your slave was it not the other way about ? Fenayrou No it was my revenge , mine alone . 
The view that regarded Mme . 
Fenayrou as a soft , malleable paste was not the view of the President . 
And then I feared for my children . 
President Is that really the case ? Mme . 
President Then your whole existence has been one of lies and hypocrisy . 
Whilst you were deceiving your husband and teaching your children to despise him you were covering him with caresses . 
You have played false to both husband and lover to Aubert in decoying him to his death , to your husband by denouncing him directly you were arrested . 
The only person you have not betrayed is yourself . 
You have said that you had ceased to care for your lover he had ceased to care for you . 
It was you who steeled your husband to the task . 
How far the President was justified in thus inverting the parts played by the husband and wife in the crime must be a matter of opinion . 
In his volume of Souvenirs M. Berard des Glajeux modifies considerably the view which he perhaps felt it his duty to express in his interrogatory of Gabrielle Fenayrou . 
He describes her as soft and flexible by nature , the repentant slave of her husband , seeking to atone for her wrong to him by helping him in his revenge . 
The one feature in the character of Mme . 
Fenayrou that seems most clearly demonstrated is its absolute insensibility under any circumstances whatsoever . 
The submissive Lucien had little to say for himself , nor could any motive for joining in the murder beyond a readiness to oblige his brother be suggested . 
The evidence recapitulated for the most part the facts already set out . 
I became her lover but , except on a few occasions , our relations were those of good friends . 
She was a woman with few material wants , affectionate , expansive , an idealist , one who had suffered much and sought from without a happiness her marriage had never brought her . 
I believe her to have been the blind tool of her husband . 
From motives of delicacy the evidence of this gentleman was read in his presence he was not examined orally . 
His eulogy of his mistress is loyal . 
This woman is the personification of falsehood , depravity , cowardice and treachery . 
She is worthy of the supreme penalty . 
The jury were not of this opinion . 
They preferred to regard Mme . 
Fenayrou as playing a secondary part to that of her husband . 
They accorded in both her case and that of Lucien ex tenuating circumstances . 
The woman was sentenced to penal servitude for life , Lucien to seven years . 
Fenayrou , for whose conduct the jury could find no extenuation , was condemned to death . 
It is the custom in certain assize towns for the President , after pronouncing sentence , to visit a prisoner who had been ordered for execution . 
M. Berard des Glajeux describes his visit to Fenayrou at Versailles . 
He was already in prison dress , sobbing . 
At the same moment his wife was in the lodge of the courthouse waiting for the cab that was to take her to her prison . 
It was she who received her judge . 
But Fenayrou was not to die . 
This second trial , which commenced on October , saved Fenayrou's head . 
The Parisian jury showed themselves more lenient than their colleagues at Versailles . 
Not only was Fenayrou accorded extenuating circumstances , but Lucien was acquitted altogether . 
The only person to whom these new proceedings brought no benefit was Mme . 
Fenayrou , whose sentence remained unaltered . 
Marin Fenayrou was sent to New Caledonia to serve his punishment . 
There he was allowed to open a dispensary , but , proving dishonest , he lost his license and became a ferryman a very Charon for terrestrial passengers . 
He died in New Caledonia of cancer of the liver . 
Eyraud and Bompard There are accounts of this case in Bataille Causes Criminelles et Mondaines , , and in Volume X. of Fouquier Causes Celebres . 
Lacassagne , Lyons , , and Goron L'Amour Criminel may be consulted . 
ON July , in the year , the Parisian police were informed of the disappearance of one Gouffe , a bailiff . 
He had been last seen by two friends on the Boulevard Montmartre at about ten minutes past seven on the evening of the th , a Friday . 
Since then nothing had been heard of him , either at his office in the Rue Montmartre , or at his private house in the Rue Rougemont . 
This was surprising in the case of a man of regular habits even in his irregularities , robust health , and cheerful spirits . 
Gouffe was a widower , forty two years of age . 
He had three daughters who lived happily with him in the Rue Rougemont . 
He did a good trade as bailiff and process server , and at times had considerable sums of money in his possession . 
These he would never leave behind him at his office , but carry home at the end of the day's work , except on Fridays . 
Friday nights Gouffe always spent away from home . 
As he descended the stairs the porter came out of his lodge and , seeing it was a stranger , accosted him . 
But the man hurried away without giving the porter time to see his face . 
When the office was examined the next day everything was found in perfect order , and a sum of , francs , hidden away behind some papers , untouched . 
The safe had not been tampered with there was , in short , nothing unusual about the room except ten long matches that were lying half burnt on the floor . 
But the one man who could have breathed the name that would have set the police on the track of the real culprits was , for reasons of his own , silent . 
The police examined many persons , but without arriving at any useful result . 
They were wrapped in a cloth , but so decomposed as to make identification almost impossible . 
A label on the trunk showed that it had been dispatched from Paris to Lyons on July , , but the final figure of the date was obliterated . 
The judicial authorities at Lyons scouted the idea that either the corpse or the trunk found at Millery had any connection with the disappearance of Gouffe . 
M. Goron , after looking carefully at the hair , asked for some distilled water . 
The doctor admitted his error . 
Fortified by this success , Goron was able to procure the exhumation of the body . 
A fresh autopsy was performed by Dr . 
Lacassagne , the eminent medical jurist of the Lyons School of Medicine . 
He was able to pronounce with certainty that the remains were those of the bailiff , Gouffe . 
This second post mortem revealed furthermore an injury to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx that had been inflicted beyond any doubt whatever , declared Dr . 
There was little reason to doubt that Gouffe had been the victim of murder by strangulation . 
But by whom had the crime been committed ? It was now the end of November . 
Four months had passed since the bailiff's murder , and the police had no clue to its perpetrators . 
At one time a friend of Gouffe's had been suspected and placed under arrest , but he was released for want of evidence . 
M. Goron pricked up his ears . 
Instinctively M. Goron connected this fugitive couple with the fate of the murdered bailiff . 
Confirmation of his suspicions was to come from London . 
Beyond producing a large crop of anonymous letters , in one of which the crime was attributed to General Boulanger , then in Jersey , these measures seemed likely to prove fruitless . 
Inquires made by the French detectives established the correctness of this correspondent's information . 
But what had become of this couple , in what street , in what house in Paris had the crime been committed ? These were questions the police were powerless to answer . 
The year came to an end , the murderers were still at large . 
But on January , , M. Goron found lying on his table a large letter bearing the New York postmark . 
He opened it , and to his astonishment read at the end the signature Michel Eyraud . 
It was a curious letter , but undoubtedly genuine . 
In it Eyraud protested against the suspicions directed against himself they were , he wrote , merely unfortunate coincidences . 
Gouffe had been his friend he had had no share whatever in his death his only misfortune had been his association with that serpent , Gabrielle Bompard . 
He had certainly bought a large trunk for her , but she told him that she had sold it . 
They had gone to America together , he to avoid financial difficulties in which he had been involved by the dishonesty of the Jews . 
There Gabrielle had deserted him for another man . 
He concluded a very long letter by declaring his belief in Gabrielle's innocence the great trouble with her is that she is such a liar and also has a dozen lovers after her . 
He promised that , as soon as he learnt that Gabrielle had returned to Paris , he would , of his own free will , place himself in the hands of M. Goron . 
Requested to give her name , she replied , with a smile , Gabrielle Bompard . 
She was accompanied by a middle aged gentleman , who appeared to be devoted to her . 
Gabrielle Bompard and her friend were taken to the private room of M. Loze , the Prefect of Police . 
After the murder she had accompanied him to America there they had met the middle aged gentleman , her companion . 
Eyraud had proposed that they should murder and rob him , but she had divulged the plot to the gentleman and asked him to take her away . 
It was acting on his advice that she had returned to France , determined to give her evidence to the judicial authorities in Paris . 
The middle aged gentleman declared himself ready to vouch for the truth of a great part of this interesting narrative . 
There they both imagined apparently that the affair would be ended . 
They were extremely surprised when the Prefect , after listening to their statements , sent for a detective inspector who showed Gabrielle Bompard a warrant for her arrest . 
After an affecting parting , at least on the part of the middle aged gentleman , Gabrielle Bompard was taken to prison . 
There she soon recovered her spirits , which had at no time been very gravely depressed by her critical situ ation . 
Immediately after the arrest of Gabrielle , two French detectives set out for America to trace and run down if possible her deserted lover . 
For more than a month they traversed Canada and the United States in search of their prey . 
The track of the fugitive was marked from New York to San Francisco by acts of thieving and swindling . 
The photograph was taken , but Eyraud forgot to return the costly robe . 
At another time he was lodging in the same house as a young American actor , called in the French accounts of the incident Sir Stout . 
In narrating this incident to the French detectives , Sir Stout describes Eyraud's performance as great , surpassing even those of Coquelin . 
Eyraud had gone to Mexico . 
From there he had written a letter to M. Rochefort's newspaper , L'Intransigeant , in which he declared Gouffe to have been murdered by Gabrielle and an unknown . 
But , when official inquiries were made in Mexico as to his whereabouts , the bird had flown . 
At Havana , in Cuba , there lived a French dressmaker and clothes merchant named Puchen . 
In the month of February a stranger , ragged and unkempt , but evidently a fellow countryman , visited her shop and offered to sell her a superb Turkish costume . 
The contrast between the wretchedness of the vendor and the magnificence of his wares struck Madame Puchen at the time . 
But her surprise was converted into suspicion when she read in the American newspapers a description of the Turkish garment stolen by Michel Eyraud , the reputed assassin of the bailiff Gouffe . 
It was one morning in the middle of May that Mme . 
Puchen read the description of the robe that had been offered her in February by her strange visitor . 
To her astonishment , about two o'clock the same afternoon , she saw the stranger standing before her door . 
She beckoned to him , and asked him if he still had his Turkish robe with him he seemed confused , and said that he had sold it . 
The conversation drifted on to ordinary topics the stranger described some of his recent adventures in Mexico . 
Do you know you're rather like him ? said the woman , in a half joking way . 
The stranger laughed , and shortly after went out , saying he would return . 
He did return on May , bringing with him a number of the Republique Illustree that contained an almost unrecognisable portrait of Eyraud . 
He said he had picked it up in a cafe . 
What a blackguard he looks ! he exclaimed as he threw the paper on the table . 
But the dressmaker's suspicions were not allayed by the stranger's uncomplimentary reference to the murderer . 
As soon as he had gone , she went to the French Consul and told him her story . 
The Consul , on hearing the statement of Mme . 
Puchen , sent for this man and told him that a person believed to be Eyraud was in Havana . 
As the man left the Consulate , whom should he meet in the street but Eyraud himself ! The fugitive had been watching the movements of Mme . 
Puchen he had suspected , after the interview , that the woman would denounce him to the authorities . 
He now saw that disguise was useless . 
He greeted his ex employe , took him into a cafe , there admitted his identity and begged him not to betray him . 
It was midnight when they left the cafe . 
Next day , the th , the search for Eyraud was set about in earnest . 
The Spanish authorities , informed of his presence in Havana , directed the police to spare no effort to lay hands on him . 
The Hotel Roma , at which he had been staying , was visited but Eyraud , scenting danger , had gone to an hotel opposite the railway station . 
His things were packed ready for flight on the following morning . 
It was past one in the morning . 
The lonely murderer wandered aimlessly in the streets , restless , nervous , a prey to apprehension , not knowing where to go . 
Again the man from Sevres met him . 
It's all up with me ! said Eyraud , and disappeared in the darkness . 
Hearing footsteps the man turned round and walked resolutely past the policeman , saying good night in Spanish . 
Who are you ? What's your address ? the officer asked abruptly . 
Gorski , Hotel Roma ! was the answer . 
This was enough for the officer . 
Eyraud was know sic to have passed as Gorski , the Hotel Roma had already been searched as one of his hiding places . 
To seize and handcuff Gorski was the work of a moment . 
On June Eyraud was delivered over to the French police . 
He reached France on the th , and on July made his first appearance before the examining magistrate . 
It will be well at this point in the narrative to describe how Eyraud and Gabrielle Bompard came to be associated together in crime . 
Gabrielle Bompard was twenty two years of age at the time of her arrest , the fourth child of a merchant of Lille , a strong , hardworking , respectable man . 
Her mother , a delicate woman , had died of lung disease when Gabrielle was thirteen . 
At eighteen she returned to her father's house , only to quit it for a lover whom , she alleged , had hypnotised and then seduced her . 
Gabrielle was singularly susceptible to hypnotic suggestion . 
Her father implored the family doctor to endeavour to persuade her , while in the hypnotic state , to reform her deplorable conduct . 
The doctor did his best but with no success . 
He declared Gabrielle to be a neuropath , who had not found in her home such influences as would have tended to overcome her vicious instincts . 
One instance will suffice to show the sinister levity , the utter absence of all moral sense in this strange creature . 
After the murder of Gouffe , Gabrielle spent the night alone with the trunk containing the bailiff's corpse . 
So I thought what fun it would be to go into the street and pick up some respectable gentleman from the provinces . 
Just think what a fool the respectable gentleman would have looked when the officers came ! Such callousness is almost unsurpassed in the annals of criminal insensibility . 
Such was Gabrielle Bompard when , on July , exactly one year to a day before the murder of Gouffe , she met in Paris Michel Eyraud . 
These two were made for each other . 
If Gabrielle were unmoral , Eyraud was immoral . 
Forty six at the time of Gouffe's murder , he was sufficiently practised in vice to appreciate and enjoy the flagrantly vicious propensities of the young Gabrielle . 
All his life Eyraud had spent his substance in debauchery . 
Understand this , said Eyraud to one of the detectives who brought him back to France , I have never done any work , and I never will do any work . 
To him work was derogatory better anything than that . 
When he met Gabrielle he was almost at the end of his tether , bankrupt and discredited . 
At a pinch he might squeeze a little money out of his wife , with whom he continued to live in spite of his open infidelities . 
Save for such help as he could get from her small dowry , he was without resources . 
Gabrielle was quick to empty his pockets of what little remained in them . 
The proceeds of her own immorality , which Eyraud was quite ready to share , soon proved insufficient to replenish them . 
Confronted with ruin , Eyraud and Gompard hit on a plan by which the woman should decoy some would be admirer to a convenient trysting place . 
There , dead or alive , the victim was to be made the means of supplying their wants . 
On further reflection dead seemed more expedient than alive , extortion from a living victim too risky an enterprise . 
Their plans were carefully prepared . 
Gabrielle was to hire a ground floor apartment , so that any noise , such as footsteps or the fall of a body , would not be heard by persons living underneath . 
At the beginning of July , , Eyraud and Bompard were in London . 
There they bought at a West End draper's a red and white silk girdle , and at a shop in Gower Street a large travelling trunk . 
The necessary ground floor apartment had been found at No. Rue Tronson Ducoudray . 
Here Gabrielle installed herself on July . 
The bedroom was convenient for the assassins' purpose , the bed standing in an alcove separated by curtains from the rest of the room . 
To the beam forming the crosspiece at the entrance into the alcove Eyraud fixed a pulley . 
It was with the help of this simple piece of mechanism and a good long pull from Eyraud that the impecunious couple hoped to refill their pockets . 
The victim was chosen on the th . 
There was no time to lose . 
The next day Gabrielle accosted Gouffe as he was going to his dejeuner and , after some little conversation agreed to meet him at eight o'clock that evening . 
The afternoon was spent in preparing for the bailiff's reception in the Rue Tronson Ducoudray . 
A lounge chair was so arranged that it stood with its back to the alcove , within which the pulley and rope had been fixed by Eyraud . 
Gouffe was to sit on the chair , Gabrielle on his knee . 
Her accomplice had only to give a strong pull and the bailiff's course was run . 
But the purchase of the necessary materials in London would seem to imply a more practical motive for the use of rope and pulley . 
At six o'clock Eyraud and Bompard dined together , after which Eyraud returned to the apartment , whilst Bompard went to meet Gouffe near the Madeline Church . 
What occurred afterwards at No. Rue Tronson Ducoudray is best described in the statement made by Eyraud at his trial . 
At a quarter past eight there was a ring at the bell . 
I hid myself behind the curtain . 
You've a nice little nest here , he said . 
Yes , a fancy of mine , replied Gabrielle , Eyraud knows nothing about it . 
Oh , you're tired of him , asked Gouffe . 
Yes , she replied , that's all over . 
Gabrielle drew Gouffe down on to the chair . 
She showed him the cord of her dressing gown and said that a wealthy admirer had given it to her . 
Very elegant , said Gouffe , but I didn't come here to see that . 
Eyraud pulled the cord vigorously and , in two minutes , Gouffe had ceased to live . 
Eyraud took from the dead man his watch and ring , francs and his keys . 
With these he hurried to Gouffe's office and made a fevered search for money . 
In his trembling haste the murderer missed a sum of , francs that was lying behind some papers , and returned , baffled and despairing , to his mistress and the corpse . 
The crime had been a ghastly failure . 
Leaving his mistress to spend the night with their hateful luggage , Eyraud returned home and , in his own words , worn out by the excitement of the day , slept heavily . 
The next day Eyraud , after saying good bye to his wife and daughter , left with Gabrielle for Lyons . 
On the th they got rid at Millery of the body of Gouffe and the trunk in which it had travelled his boots and clothes they threw into the sea at Marseilles . 
There Eyraud borrowed francs from his brother . 
Gabrielle raised , francs in Paris , where they spent August and , after which they left for England , and from England sailed for America . 
Eyraud had been brought back to Paris from Cuba at the end of June , . 
Each denied vehemently , with hatred and passion , the other's story . 
Neither denied the murder , but each tried to represent the other as the more guilty of the two . 
Eyraud said that the suggestion and plan of the crime had come from Gabrielle that she had placed around Gouffe's neck the cord that throttled him . 
Gabrielle attributed the inception of the murder to Eyraud , and said that he had strangled the bailiff with his own hands . 
Eyraud , since his return , had seemed indifferent to his own fate whatever it might be , he wished that his mistress should share it . 
He had no objection to going to the guillotine as long as he was sure that Gabrielle would accompany him . 
She sought to escape such a consummation by representing herself as a mere instrument in Eyraud's hands . 
It was even urged in her defence that , in committing the crime , she had acted under the influence of hypnotic suggestion on the part of her accomplice . 
Intellectually the medical gentlemen found her alert and sane enough , but morally blind . 
The trial of Eyraud and Bompard took place before the Paris Assize Court on December , . 
It had been delayed owing to the proceedings of an enterprising journalist . 
The names of the jurymen who were to be called on to serve at the assize had been published . 
The journalist conceived the brilliant idea of interviewing some of these gentlemen . 
He succeeded in seeing four of them , but in his article which appeared in the Matin newspaper said that he had seen twenty one . 
A month's imprisonment was the reward of these flights of journalistic imagination . 
The proceedings at the trial added little to the known facts of the case . 
Both Eyraud and Bompard continued to endeavour to shift the blame on to each other's shoulders . 
A curious feature of the trial was the appearance for the defence of a M. Liegeois , a professor of law at Nancy . 
He undertook to prove that , not only Gabrielle Bompard , but Troppmann , Madame Weiss , and Gabrielle Fenayrou also , had committed murder under the influence of suggestion . 
In replying to this rather fantastic defence , the Procureur General , M. Quesnay de Beaurepaire , quoted a statement of Dr . 
Brouardel , the eminent medical jurist who had been called for the prosecution , that there exists no instance of a crime , or attempted crime committed under the influence of hypnotic suggestion . 
Liegeois himself , in coming to this court to day , has fallen a victim to the suggestion of the young advocate who has persuaded him to come here to air his theories . 
The value of such experiments with a woman as mischievous and untruthful as Gabrielle Bompard must be very doubtful . 
In sheer wickedness there seems little enough to choose between Eyraud and Bompard . 
But , in asking a verdict without extenuating circumstances against the woman , the Procureur General was by no means insistent . 
On one occasion , at the outset of my career , it fell to my lot to ask from a jury the head of a woman . 
I felt then the same kind of distress of mind I feel to day . 
The jury rejected my demand they accorded extenuating circumstances though defeated , I left the court a happier man . 
What are you going to do to day , gentlemen ? It rests with you . 
What I cannot ask of you , you have the right to accord . 
But when the supreme moment comes to return your verdict , remember that you have sworn to judge firmly and fearlessly . 
The jury accorded extenuating circumstances to the woman , but refused them to the man . 
After a trial lasting four days Eyraud was sentenced to death , Bompard to twenty years penal servitude . 
At first Eyraud appeared to accept his fate with resignation . 
He wrote to his daughter that he was tired of life , and that his death was the best thing that could happen for her mother and herself . 
There are grounds for a successful appeal , he wrote , I am pretty certain that my sentence will be commuted . 
You ask me what I do ? Nothing much . 
I can't write the pens are so bad . 
I read part of the time , smoke pipes , and sleep a great deal . 
Sometimes I play cards , and talk a little . 
I have a room as large as yours at Sevres . 
I walk up and down it , thinking of you all . 
But his hopes were to be disappointed . 
The Court of Cassation rejected his appeal . 
A petition was addressed to President Carnot , but , with a firmness that has not characterised some of his successors in office , he refused to commute the sentence . 
On the morning of February , , Eyraud noticed that the warders , who usually went off duty at six o'clock , remained at their posts . 
An hour later the Governor of the Roquette prison entered his cell , and informed him that the time had come for the execution of the sentence . 
Eyraud received the intelligence quietly . 
The only excitement he betrayed was a sudden outburst of violent animosity against M. Constans , then Minister of the Interior . 
Eyraud had been a Boulangist , and so may have nourished some resentment against the Minister who , by his adroitness , had helped to bring about the General's ruin . 
