by L. Frank Baum Royal Historian of Oz Contents To My Readers . 
The Birthday Celebration To My Readers Well , my dears , here is what you have asked for another Oz Book about Dorothy's strange adventures . 
Toto is in this story , because you wanted him to be there , and many other characters which you will recognize are in the story , too . 
There are some new characters in this book that ought to win your live . 
I'm very fond of the shaggy man myself , and I think you will like him , too . 
Yet I am anxious to have you write and tell me how you like them . 
Since this book was written I have received some very remarkable News from The Land of Oz , which has greatly astonished me . 
I believe it will astonish you , too , my dears , when you hear it . 
L. FRANK BAUM Coronado , . 
The Way to Butterfield Please , miss , said the shaggy man , can you tell me the road to Butterfield ? Dorothy looked him over . 
Yes , he was shaggy , all right , but there was a twinkle in his eye that seemed pleasant . 
Oh yes , she replied I can tell you . 
But it isn't this road at all . 
You must take the right road to get to Butterfield . 
And is that the one by the gopher stump , or Dear me ! cried Dorothy . 
I shall have to show you the way , you're so stupid . 
Wait a minute till I run in the house and get my sunbonnet . 
He had an oat straw in his mouth , which he chewed slowly as if it tasted good but it didn't . 
There was an apple tree beside the house , and some apples had fallen to the ground . 
The shaggy man thought they would taste better than the oat straw , so he walked over to get some . 
The little dog barked and made a dive for the shaggy man's leg but he grabbed the dog by the neck and put it in his big pocket along with the apples . 
The little dog's name was Toto , and he was sorry he had been put in the shaggy man's pocket . 
Pretty soon Dorothy came out of the house with her sunbonnet , and she called out Come on , Shaggy Man , if you want me to show you the road to Butterfield . 
My , but you're clumsy ! said the little girl . 
Are your feet tired ? No , miss it's my whiskers they tire very easily in this warm weather , said he . 
I wish it would snow , don't you ? 'Course not , Shaggy Man , replied Dorothy , giving him a severe look . 
It won't snow , I guess . 
Is this the lane ? Yes , replied Dorothy , climbing another fence I'll go as far as the highway with you . 
Thankee , miss you're very kind for your size , I'm sure , said he gratefully . 
Don't do that , miss , said the shaggy man earnestly you might make a mistake . 
I won't , she answered , laughing . 
Now it's the second no , the third turn to the left or else it's the fourth . 
The first one is by the elm tree , and the second is by the gopher holes and then Then what ? he inquired , putting his hands in his coat pockets . 
Toto grabbed a finger and bit it the shaggy man took his hand out of that pocket quickly , and said Oh ! Dorothy did not notice . 
She was shading her eyes from the sun with her arm , looking anxiously down the road . 
Come on , she commanded . 
It's only a little way farther , so I may as well show you . 
After a while , they came to the place where five roads branched in different directions Dorothy pointed to one , and said That's it , Shaggy Man . 
I'm much obliged , miss , he said , and started along another road . 
Not that one ! she cried you're going wrong . 
I thought you said that other was the road to Butterfield , said he , running his fingers through his shaggy whiskers in a puzzled way . 
But I don't want to go to Butterfield , miss . 
You don't ? Of course not . 
I wanted you to show me the road , so I shouldn't go there by mistake . 
Oh ! Where DO you want to go , then ? I'm not particular , miss . 
This answer astonished the little girl and it made her provoked , too , to think she had taken all this trouble for nothing . 
There are a good many roads here , observed the shaggy man , turning slowly around , like a human windmill . 
Seems to me a person could go 'most anywhere , from this place . 
Dorothy turned around too , and gazed in surprise . 
There WERE a good many roads more than she had ever seen before . 
Dear me ! she exclaimed . 
There used to be only five roads , highway and all . 
And now why , where's the highway , Shaggy Man ? Can't say , miss , he responded , sitting down upon the ground as if tired with standing . 
Wasn't it here a minute ago ? I thought so , she answered , greatly perplexed . 
And I saw the gopher holes , too , and the dead stump but they're not here now . 
These roads are all strange and what a lot of them there are ! Where do you suppose they all go to ? Roads , observed the shaggy man , don't go anywhere . 
They stay in one place , so folks can walk on them . 
He put his hand in his side pocket and drew out an apple quick , before Toto could bite him again . 
The little dog got his head out this time and said Bow wow ! so loudly that it made Dorothy jump . 
O , Toto ! she cried where did you come from ? I brought him along , said the shaggy man . 
What for ? she asked . 
To guard these apples in my pocket , miss , so no one would steal them . 
With one hand the shaggy man held the apple , which he began eating , while with the other hand he pulled Toto out of his pocket and dropped him to the ground . 
Of course Toto made for Dorothy at once , barking joyfully at his release from the dark pocket . 
She looked around her anxiously for some familiar landmark but everything was strange . 
Each of these roads must lead somewhere , or it wouldn't be here . 
So what does it matter ? I want to go home again , she said . 
Well , why don't you ? said he . 
I don't know which road to take . 
That is too bad , he said , shaking his shaggy head gravely . 
I wish I could help you but I can't . 
I'm a stranger in these parts . 
Seems as if I were , too , she said , sitting down beside him . 
I'm not hungry , said Dorothy , pushing it away . 
But you may be , to morrow then you'll be sorry you didn't eat the apple , said he . 
If I am , I'll eat the apple then , promised Dorothy . 
Perhaps there won't be any apple then , he returned , beginning to eat the red cheeked one himself . 
Dogs sometimes can find their way home better than people , he went on perhaps your dog can lead you back to the farm . 
Will you , Toto ? asked Dorothy . 
Toto wagged his tail vigorously . 
All right , said the girl let's go home . 
Toto looked around a minute and dashed up one of the roads . 
Good bye , Shaggy Man , called Dorothy , and ran after Toto . 
The little dog pranced briskly along for some distance when he turned around and looked at his mistress questioningly . 
Oh , don't 'spect ME to tell you anything I don't know the way , she said . 
You'll have to find it yourself . 
He wagged his tail , and sneezed , and shook his ears , and trotted back where they had left the shaggy man . 
From here he started along another road then came back and tried another but each time he found the way strange and decided it would not take them to the farm house . 
Finally , when Dorothy had begun to tire with chasing after him , Toto sat down panting beside the shaggy man and gave up . 
Dorothy sat down , too , very thoughtful . 
The little girl had encountered some queer adventures since she came to live at the farm but this was the queerest of them all . 
To get lost in fifteen minutes , so near to her home and in the unromantic State of Kansas , was an experience that fairly bewildered her . 
Will your folks worry ? asked the shaggy man , his eyes twinkling in a pleasant way . 
I s'pose so , answered Dorothy with a sigh . 
Uncle Henry says there's ALWAYS something happening to me but I've always come home safe at the last . 
So perhaps he'll take comfort and think I'll come home safe this time . 
I'm sure you will , said the shaggy man , smilingly nodding at her . 
Good little girls never come to any harm , you know . 
For my part , I'm good , too so nothing ever hurts me . 
Dorothy looked at him curiously . 
His clothes were shaggy , his boots were shaggy and full of holes , and his hair and whiskers were shaggy . 
But his smile was sweet and his eyes were kind . 
Why didn't you want to go to Butterfield ? she asked . 
Because a man lives there who owes me fifteen cents , and if I went to Butterfield and he saw me he'd want to pay me the money . 
I don't want money , my dear . 
Why not ? she inquired . 
Money , declared the shaggy man , makes people proud and haughty . 
I don't want to be proud and haughty . 
All I want is to have people love me and as long as I own the Love Magnet , everyone I meet is sure to love me dearly . 
The Love Magnet ! Why , what's that ? I'll show you , if you won't tell any one , he answered , in a low , mysterious voice . 
There isn't any one to tell , 'cept Toto , said the girl . 
The shaggy man searched in one pocket , carefully and in another pocket and in a third . 
At last he drew out a small parcel wrapped in crumpled paper and tied with a cotton string . 
He unwound the string , opened the parcel , and took out a bit of metal shaped like a horseshoe . 
It was dull and brown , and not very pretty . 
This , my dear , said he , impressively , is the wonderful Love Magnet . 
Why didn't the Eskimo keep it ? she asked , looking at the Magnet with interest . 
He got tired of being loved and longed for some one to hate him . 
So he gave me the Magnet and the very next day a grizzly bear ate him . 
Wasn't he sorry then ? she inquired . 
He didn't say , replied the shaggy man , wrapping and tying the Love Magnet with great care and putting it away in another pocket . 
But the bear didn't seem sorry a bit , he added . 
Did you know the bear ? asked Dorothy . 
Yes we used to play ball together in the Caviar Islands . 
The bear loved me because I had the Love Magnet . 
I couldn't blame him for eating the Eskimo , because it was his nature to do so . 
Once , said Dorothy , I knew a Hungry Tiger who longed to eat fat babies , because it was his nature to but he never ate any because he had a Conscience . 
This bear , replied the shaggy man , with a sigh , had no Conscience , you see . 
The shaggy man sat silent for several minutes , apparently considering the cases of the bear and the tiger , while Toto watched him with an air of great interest . 
The little dog was doubtless thinking of his ride in the shaggy man's pocket and planning to keep out of reach in the future . 
Let's take the seventh road , he suggested . 
Seven is a lucky number for little girls named Dorothy . 
The seventh from where ? From where you begin to count . 
There were no houses of any sort to be seen , and for some distance they met with no living creature at all . 
In the shade sat a little boy dressed in sailor clothes , who was digging a hole in the earth with a bit of wood . 
He must have been digging some time , because the hole was already big enough to drop a football into . 
Dorothy and Toto and the shaggy man came to a halt before the little boy , who kept on digging in a sober and persistent fashion . 
Who are you ? asked the girl . 
He looked up at her calmly . 
His face was round and chubby and his eyes were big , blue and earnest . 
I'm Button Bright , said he . 
But what's your real name ? she inquired . 
That isn't a really truly name ! she exclaimed . 
Isn't it ? he asked , still digging . 
It's just a a thing to call you by . 
You must have a name . 
Must I ? To be sure . 
What does your mama call you ? He paused in his digging and tried to think . 
Papa always said I was bright as a button so mama always called me Button Bright , he said . 
What is your papa's name ? Just Papa . 
What else ? Don't know . 
Never mind , said the shaggy man , smiling . 
We'll call the boy Button Bright , as his mama does . 
That name is as good as any , and better than some . 
Dorothy watched the boy dig . 
Where do you live ? she asked . 
Don't know , was the reply . 
How did you come here ? Don't know , he said again . 
Don't you know where you came from ? No , said he . 
Why , he must be lost , she said to the shaggy man . 
She turned to the boy once more . 
What are you going to do ? she inquired . 
But you can't dig forever and what are you going to do then ? she persisted . 
Don't know , said the boy . 
But you MUST know SOMETHING , declared Dorothy , getting provoked . 
Must I ? he asked , looking up in surprise . 
What must I know ? What's going to become of you , for one thing , she answered . 
Do YOU know what's going to become of me ? he asked . 
Not not 'zactly , she admitted . 
Do you know what's going to become of YOU ? he continued , earnestly . 
I can't say I do , replied Dorothy , remembering her present difficulties . 
No one knows everything , Dorothy , he said . 
But Button Bright doesn't seem to know ANYthing , she declared . 
Do you , Button Bright ? He shook his head , which had pretty curls all over it , and replied with perfect calmness Don't know . 
Never before had Dorothy met with anyone who could give her so little information . 
The boy was evidently lost , and his people would be sure to worry about him . 
He seemed two or three years younger than Dorothy , and was prettily dressed , as if someone loved him dearly and took much pains to make him look well . 
How , then , did he come to be in this lonely road ? she wondered . 
Near Button Bright , on the ground , lay a sailor hat with a gilt anchor on the band . 
His sailor trousers were long and wide at the bottom , and the broad collar of his blouse had gold anchors sewed on its corners . 
The boy was still digging at his hole . 
Have you ever been to sea ? asked Dorothy . 
To see what ? answered Button Bright . 
I mean , have you ever been where there's water ? Yes , said Button Bright there's a well in our back yard . 
You don't understand , cried Dorothy . 
I mean , have you ever been on a big ship floating on a big ocean ? Don't know , said he . 
Then why do you wear sailor clothes ? Don't know , he answered , again . 
You're just AWFUL stupid , Button Bright , she said . 
Am I ? he asked . 
Why ? looking up at her with big eyes . 
She was going to say Don't know , but stopped herself in time . 
That's for you to answer , she replied . 
The little dog began barking loudly and jumped into the hole himself , where he began to dig with his tiny paws , making the earth fly in all directions . 
It spattered over the boy . 
Dorothy seized him and raised him to his feet , brushing his clothes with her hand . 
Stop that , Toto ! she called . 
There aren't any mice or woodchucks in that hole , so don't be foolish . 
Toto stopped , sniffed at the hole suspiciously , and jumped out of it , wagging his tail as if he had done something important . 
Well , said the shaggy man , let's start on , or we won't get anywhere before night comes . 
Where do you expect to get to ? asked Dorothy . 
I don't know , answered the shaggy man , with a laugh . 
What place it will be we can't even guess at this moment , but we're sure to find out when we get there . 
Why , yes , said Dorothy that seems reas'n'ble , Shaggy Man . 
They started on , with Dorothy on one side , and Toto on the other , the little party trudging along more cheerfully than you might have supposed . 
The girl was getting used to queer adventures , which interested her very much . 
Wherever Dorothy went Toto was sure to go , like Mary's little lamb . 
Before long they saw ahead of them a fine big arch spanning the road , and when they came nearer they found that the arch was beautifully carved and decorated with rich colors . 
A row of peacocks with spread tails ran along the top of it , and all the feathers were gorgeously painted . 
While the travelers were looking with curiosity at this beautiful arch there suddenly marched out of it a company of soldiers only the soldiers were all foxes dressed in uniforms . 
They wore green jackets and yellow pantaloons , and their little round caps and their high boots were a bright red color . 
Also , there was a big red bow tied about the middle of each long , bushy tail . 
Each soldier was armed with a wooden sword having an edge of sharp teeth set in a row , and the sight of these teeth at first caused Dorothy to shudder . 
A captain marched in front of the company of fox soldiers , his uniform embroidered with gold braid to make it handsomer than the others . 
Almost before our friends realized it the soldiers had surrounded them on all sides , and the captain was calling out in a harsh voice Surrender ! You are our prisoners . 
What's a pris'ner ? asked Button Bright . 
A prisoner is a captive , replied the fox captain , strutting up and down with much dignity . 
What's a captive ? asked Button Bright . 
You're one , said the captain . 
That made the shaggy man laugh Good afternoon , captain , he said , bowing politely to all the foxes and very low to their commander . 
I trust you are in good health , and that your families are all well ? The fox captain looked at the shaggy man , and his sharp features grew pleasant and smiling . 
But Toto didn't know this , for he began barking angrily and tried to bite the captain's hairy leg where it showed between his red boots and his yellow pantaloons . 
Stop , Toto ! cried the little girl , seizing the dog in her arms . 
Why , so we are ! remarked the captain in tones of astonishment . 
I thought at first we were enemies , but it seems you are friends instead . 
You must come with me to see King Dox . 
Who's he ? asked Button Bright , with earnest eyes . 
King Dox of Foxville the great and wise sovereign who rules over our community . 
What's sov'rin , and what's c'u'nity ? inquired Button Bright . 
Don't ask so many questions , little boy . 
Why ? Ah , why indeed ? exclaimed the captain , looking at Button Bright admiringly . 
If you don't ask questions you will learn nothing . 
You're a very clever little boy , come to think of it very clever indeed . 
But now , friends , please come with me , for it is my duty to escort you at once to the royal palace . 
The soldiers marched back through the arch again , and with them marched the shaggy man , Dorothy , Toto , and Button Bright . 
Once through the opening they found a fine , big city spread out before them , all the houses of carved marble in beautiful colors . 
The decorations were mostly birds and other fowl , such as peacocks , pheasants , turkeys , prairie chickens , ducks , and geese . 
Over each doorway was carved a head representing the fox who lived in that house , this effect being quite pretty and unusual . 
As our friends marched along , some of the foxes came out on the porches and balconies to get a view of the strangers . 
Button Bright stared until his eyes were big and round , and he would have stumbled and fallen more than once had not the shaggy man grasped his hand tightly . 
So he finally quieted down , like a wise doggy , deciding there were too many foxes in Foxville to fight at one time . 
By and by they came to a big square , and in the center of the square stood the royal palace . 
There were many fox soldiers guarding the door , but they bowed to the captain and admitted him without question . 
The captain led them through many rooms , where richly dressed foxes were sitting on beautiful chairs or sipping tea , which was being passed around by fox servants in white aprons . 
They came to a big doorway covered with heavy curtains of cloth of gold . 
Beside this doorway stood a huge drum . 
The fox captain went to this drum and knocked his knees against it first one knee and then the other so that the drum said Boom boom . 
You must all do exactly what I do , ordered the captain so the shaggy man pounded the drum with his knees , and so did Dorothy and so did Button Bright . 
The boy wanted to keep on pounding it with his little fat knees , because he liked the sound of it but the captain stopped him . 
The golden curtains drew back far enough to make an opening , through which marched the captain with the others . 
The broad , long room they entered was decorated in gold with stained glass windows of splendid colors . 
Dorothy knew the King at once , because she had seen his head carved on the arch and over the doorway of the palace . 
Having met with several other kings in her travels , she knew what to do , and at once made a low bow before the throne . 
The shaggy man bowed , too , and Button Bright bobbed his head and said Hello . 
So so , said the King , looking at them keenly . 
What brought you here , strangers ? Our legs , may it please your Royal Hairiness , replied the shaggy man . 
What is your business here ? was the next question . 
To get away as soon as possible , said the shaggy man . 
The King didn't know about the Magnet , of course but it made him love the shaggy man at once . 
Do just as you please about going away , he said but I'd like to show you the sights of my city and to entertain your party while you are here . 
We feel highly honored to have little Dorothy with us , I assure you , and we appreciate her kindness in making us a visit . 
For whatever country Dorothy visits is sure to become famous . 
This speech greatly surprised the little girl , who asked How did your Majesty know my name ? Why , everybody knows you , my dear , said the Fox King . 
Don't you realize that ? You are quite an important personage since Princess Ozma of Oz made you her friend . 
Do you know Ozma ? she asked , wondering . 
I regret to say that I do not , he answered , sadly but I hope to meet her soon . 
You know the Princess Ozma is to celebrate her birthday on the twenty first of this month . 
Is she ? said Dorothy . 
Yes it is to be the most brilliant royal ceremony ever held in any city in Fairyland , and I hope you will try to get me an invitation . 
Kansas ! he exclaimed , surprised . 
Why , yes we are in Kansas now , aren't we ? she returned . 
What a queer notion ! cried the Fox King , beginning to laugh . 
Whatever made you think this is Kansas ? I left Uncle Henry's farm only about two hours ago that's the reason , she said , rather perplexed . 
But , tell me , my dear , did you ever see so wonderful a city as Foxville in Kansas ? he questioned . 
And haven't you traveled from Oz to Kansas in less than half a jiffy , by means of the Silver Shoes and the Magic Belt ? Yes , your Majesty , she acknowledged . 
Dorothy turned to the shaggy man , and her face was grave and reproachful . 
Are you a magician ? or a fairy in disguise ? she asked . 
Did you enchant me when you asked the way to Butterfield ? The shaggy man shook his head . 
Who ever heard of a shaggy fairy ? he replied . 
No , Dorothy , my dear I'm not to blame for this journey in any way , I assure you . 
There's been something strange about me ever since I owned the Love Magnet but I don't know what it is any more than you do . 
I didn't try to get you away from home , at all . 
If you want to find your way back to the farm I'll go with you willingly , and do my best to help you . 
Never mind , said the little girl , thoughtfully . 
There isn't so much to see in Kansas as there is here , and I guess Aunt Em won't be VERY much worried that is , if I don't stay away too long . 
That's right , declared the Fox King , nodding approval . 
Be contented with your lot , whatever it happens to be , if you are wise . 
Which reminds me that you have a new companion on this adventure he looks very clever and bright . 
He is , said Dorothy and the shaggy man added That's his name , your Royal Foxiness Button Bright . 
How do you like us ? asked the King . 
Don't know , said Button Bright . 
It's too short an acquaintance , returned his Majesty . 
What do you suppose my name is ? Don't know , said Button Bright . 
How should you ? Well , I'll tell you . 
My private name is Dox , but a King can't be called by his private name he has to take one that is official . 
Therefore my official name is King Renard the Fourth . 
Ren ard with the accent on the 'Ren' . 
What's 'ren' ? asked Button Bright . 
How clever ! exclaimed the King , turning a pleased face toward his counselors . 
This boy is indeed remarkably bright . 
'What's 'ren' ? he asks and of course 'ren' is nothing at all , all by itself . 
Yes , he's very bright indeed . 
That question is what your Majesty might call foxy , said one of the counselors , an old grey fox . 
So it is , declared the King . 
Turning again to Button Bright , he asked Having told you my name , what would you call me ? King Dox , said the boy . 
Why ? 'Cause 'ren''s nothing at all , was the reply . 
Good ! Very good indeed ! You certainly have a brilliant mind . 
Do you know why two and two make four ? No , said Button Bright . 
Clever ! clever indeed ! Of course you don't know . 
Nobody knows why we only know it's so , and can't tell why it's so . 
Button Bright , those curls and blue eyes do not go well with so much wisdom . 
They make you look too youthful , and hide your real cleverness . 
Therefore , I will do you a great favor . 
I will confer upon you the head of a fox , so that you may hereafter look as bright as you really are . 
Oh , don't do that ! cried Dorothy , shrinking back from her transformed companion with a shocked and dismayed face . 
Too late , my dear it's done . 
But you also shall have a fox's head if you can prove you're as clever as Button Bright . 
I don't want it it's dreadful ! she exclaimed and , hearing this verdict , Button Bright began to boo hoo just as if he were still a little boy . 
How can you call that lovely head dreadful ? asked the King . 
It's a much prettier face than he had before , to my notion , and my wife says I'm a good judge of beauty . 
Don't cry , little fox boy . 
Laugh and be proud , because you are so highly favored . 
How do you like the new head , Button Bright ? D d don't n n n know ! sobbed the child . 
Please , PLEASE change him back again , your Majesty ! begged Dorothy . 
King Renard IV shook his head . 
I can't do that , he said I haven't the power , even if I wanted to . 
No , Button Bright must wear his fox head , and he'll be sure to love it dearly as soon as he gets used to it . 
Both the shaggy man and Dorothy looked grave and anxious , for they were sorrowful that such a misfortune had overtaken their little companion . 
Toto barked at the fox boy once or twice , not realizing it was his former friend who now wore the animal head but Dorothy cuffed the dog and made him stop . 
As for the foxes , they all seemed to think Button Bright's new head very becoming and that their King had conferred a great honor on this little stranger . 
It was funny to see the boy reach up to feel of his sharp nose and wide mouth , and wail afresh with grief . 
He wagged his ears in a comical manner and tears were in his little black eyes . 
But Dorothy couldn't laugh at her friend just yet , because she felt so sorry . 
You must live with us always , and be our brother , said the next . 
We shall all love you dearly , the third said . 
This praise did much to comfort the boy , and he looked around and tried to smile . 
It was a pitiful attempt , because the fox face was new and stiff , and Dorothy thought his expression more stupid than before the transformation . 
I think we ought to be going now , said the shaggy man , uneasily , for he didn't know what the King might take into his head to do next . 
Don't leave us yet , I beg of you , pleaded King Renard . 
I intend to have several days of feasting and merry making in honor of your visit . 
Have it after we're gone , for we can't wait , said Dorothy , decidedly . 
But seeing this displeased the King , she added If I'm going to get Ozma to invite you to her party I'll have to find her as soon as poss'ble , you know . 
But it is now evening , the King reminded them , and you must stay with us until morning , anyhow . 
Therefore , I invite you to be my guests at dinner , and to attend the theater afterward and sit in the royal box . 
To morrow morning , if you really insist upon it , you may resume your journey . 
They consented to this , and some of the fox servants led them to a suite of lovely rooms in the big palace . 
Button Bright was afraid to be left alone , so Dorothy took him into her own room . 
The maids wanted to dress the children in fine costumes of woven feathers , such as all the foxes wore but neither of them consented to that . 
A sailor suit and a fox head do not go well together , said one of the maids , for no fox was ever a sailor that I can remember . 
I'm not a fox ! cried Button Bright . 
Alas , no , agreed the maid . 
But you've got a lovely fox head on your skinny shoulders , and that's ALMOST as good as being a fox . 
The boy , reminded of his misfortune , began to cry again . 
Dorothy petted and comforted him and promised to find some way to restore him his own head . 
Dorothy let the maids pin ribbons to her shoulders , after which they were ready for the King's dinner . 
When they met the shaggy man in the splendid drawing room of the palace they found him just the same as before . 
He told Dorothy he had brushed his shaggy hair and whiskers but she thought he must have brushed them the wrong way , for they were quite as shaggy as before . 
But they treated their guests with great respect and the King's dinner was a very good dinner indeed . 
The party went to the theater , where they saw a play acted by foxes dressed in costumes of brilliantly colored feathers . 
How do you like it ? the King asked Dorothy . 
Pretty well , she answered . 
It reminds me of one of Mr. Aesop's fables . 
Don't mention Aesop to me , I beg of you ! exclaimed King Dox . 
I hate that man's name . 
He wrote a good deal about foxes , but always made them out cruel and wicked , whereas we are gentle and kind , as you may see . 
But his fables showed you to be wise and clever , and more shrewd than other animals , said the shaggy man , thoughtfully . 
There is no question about our knowing more than men do , replied the King , proudly . 
But we employ our wisdom to do good , instead of harm so that horrid Aesop did not know what he was talking about . 
But you were born without clothes , she observed , and you don't seem to me to need them . 
So were human beings born without clothes , he replied and until they became civilized they wore only their natural skins . 
I don't , declared the shaggy man . 
That is true , said the King , looking at him carefully but perhaps you are not civilized . 
After a sound sleep and a good night's rest they had their breakfast with the King and then bade his Majesty good bye . 
You've been kind to us 'cept poor Button Bright , said Dorothy , and we've had a nice time in Foxville . 
Then , said King Dox , perhaps you'll be good enough to get me an invitation to Princess Ozma's birthday celebration . 
I'll try , she promised if I see her in time . 
It's on the twenty first , remember , he continued and if you'll just see that I'm invited I'll find a way to cross the Dreadful Desert into the marvelous Land of Oz . 
If I see Ozma I'll ask her to invite you , she replied . 
Here they found more soldiers guarding the road . 
Are you afraid of enemies ? asked Dorothy . 
No because we are watchful and able to protect ourselves , answered the captain . 
But this road leads to another village peopled by big , stupid beasts who might cause us trouble if they thought we were afraid of them . 
What beasts are they ? asked the shaggy man . 
The captain hesitated to answer . 
Finally , he said You will learn all about them when you arrive at their city . 
But do not be afraid of them . 
Button Bright is so wonderfully clever and has now such an intelligent face that I'm sure he will manage to find a way to protect you . 
This made Dorothy and the shaggy man rather uneasy , for they had not so much confidence in the fox boy's wisdom as the captain seemed to have . 
But as their escort would say no more about the beasts , they bade him good bye and proceeded on their journey . 
The Rainbow's Daughter Toto , now allowed to run about as he pleased , was glad to be free again and able to bark at the birds and chase the butterflies . 
The country around them was charming , yet in the pretty fields of wild flowers and groves of leafy trees were no houses whatever , or sign of any inhabitants . 
They walked briskly on for an hour or two , for even little Button Bright was a good walker and did not tire easily . 
At length as they turned a curve in the road they beheld just before them a curious sight . 
Her hair was like spun gold and flowed around her in a cloud , no strand being fastened or confined by either pin or ornament or ribbon . 
Filled with wonder and admiration our friends approached and stood watching this fascinating dance . 
The girl was no taller than Dorothy , although more slender nor did she seem any older than our little heroine . 
Suddenly she paused and abandoned the dance , as if for the first time observing the presence of strangers . 
Why , so are we , said Dorothy , smiling but we don't cry about it . 
Don't you ? Why not ? 'Cause I've been lost before , and always got found again , answered Dorothy simply . 
But I've never been lost before , murmured the dainty maiden , and I'm worried and afraid . 
You were dancing , remarked Dorothy , in a puzzled tone of voice . 
Oh , that was just to keep warm , explained the maiden , quickly . 
It was not because I felt happy or gay , I assure you . 
Dorothy looked at her closely . 
Her gauzy flowing robes might not be very warm , yet the weather wasn't at all chilly , but rather mild and balmy , like a spring day . 
Who are you , dear ? she asked , gently . 
I'm Polychrome , was the reply . 
I'm the Daughter of the Rainbow . 
Oh ! said Dorothy with a gasp I didn't know the Rainbow had children . 
But I MIGHT have known it , before you spoke . 
You couldn't really be anything else . 
Why not ? inquired Polychrome , as if surprised . 
Because you're so lovely and sweet . 
The little maiden smiled through her tears , came up to Dorothy , and placed her slender fingers in the Kansas girl's chubby hand . 
You'll be my friend won't you ? she said , pleadingly . 
But the real Button Bright is good to look at , and I hope to get him changed back to himself , some time . 
The Rainbow's Daughter nodded cheerfully , no longer afraid of her new companions . 
Is this , also , some enchanted person ? Oh no , Polly I may call you Polly , mayn't I ? Your whole name's awful hard to say . 
Call me Polly if you wish , Dorothy . 
Well , Polly , Toto's just a dog but he has more sense than Button Bright , to tell the truth and I'm very fond of him . 
So am I , said Polychrome , bending gracefully to pat Toto's head . 
But how did the Rainbow's Daughter ever get on this lonely road , and become lost ? asked the shaggy man , who had listened wonderingly to all this . 
Suddenly I began to slide , and I went faster and faster until at last I bumped on the ground , at the very end . 
I'm so used to living nearer the sun , replied the Rainbow's Daughter , that at first I feared I would freeze down here . 
But my dance has warmed me some , and now I wonder how I am ever to get home again . 
What would you advise me to do , Dorothy ? Come with us , was the answer . 
I'm going to try to find my way to the Emerald City , which is in the fairy Land of Oz . 
Do you really think so ? asked Polychrome , anxiously . 
Come along , then , said the shaggy man , cheerfully and they started on once more . 
Then she tripped back to them with sparkling eyes and smiling cheeks , having regained her usual happy mood and forgotten all her worry about being lost . 
The City Of Beasts When noon came they opened the Fox King's basket of luncheon , and found a nice roasted turkey with cranberry sauce and some slices of bread and butter . 
As they sat on the grass by the roadside the shaggy man cut up the turkey with his pocket knife and passed slices of it around . 
Haven't you any dewdrops , or mist cakes , or cloudbuns ? asked Polychrome , longingly . 
'Course not , replied Dorothy . 
We eat solid things , down here on the earth . 
But there's a bottle of cold tea . 
Try some , won't you ? The Rainbow's Daughter watched Button Bright devour one leg of the turkey . 
Is it good ? she asked . 
Do you think I could eat it ? Not this , said Button Bright . 
But I mean another piece ? Don't know , he replied . 
When she tasted it Polychrome thought the turkey was good better even than mist cakes but a little satisfied her hunger and she finished with a tiny sip of cold tea . 
That's about as much as a fly would eat , said Dorothy , who was making a good meal herself . 
But I know some people in Oz who eat nothing at all . 
Who are they ? inquired the shaggy man . 
One is a scarecrow who's stuffed with straw , and the other a woodman made out of tin . 
They haven't any appetites inside of 'em , you see so they never eat anything at all . 
Are they alive ? asked Button Bright . 
Oh yes , replied Dorothy and they're very clever and very nice , too . 
If we get to Oz I'll introduce them to you . 
Do you really expect to get to Oz ? inquired the shaggy man , taking a drink of cold tea . 
But I can't promise , you know all I can do is wait and see . 
Will the Scarecrow scare me ? asked Button Bright . 
No 'cause you're not a crow , she returned . 
He has the loveliest smile you ever saw only it's painted on and he can't help it . 
Sometimes she darted along the road so swiftly that she was nearly out of sight , then she came tripping back to greet them with her silvery laughter . 
But once she came back more sedately , to say There's a city a little way off . 
I 'spected that , returned Dorothy for the fox people warned us there was one on this road . 
It's filled with stupid beasts of some sort , but we musn't be afraid of 'em 'cause they won't hurt us . 
All right , said Button Bright but Polychrome didn't know whether it was all right or not . 
It's a big city , she said , and the road runs straight through it . 
This comforted them somewhat , and they moved on again . 
Pretty soon they came to a signpost that read HAF A MYLE TO DUNKITON . 
Oh , said the shaggy man , if they're donkeys , we've nothing to fear at all . 
They may kick , said Dorothy , doubtfully . 
Then we will cut some switches , and make them behave , he replied . 
At the first tree he cut himself a long , slender switch from one of the branches , and shorter switches for the others . 
Don't be afraid to order the beasts around , he said they're used to it . 
Before long the road brought them to the gates of the city . 
There was a high wall all around , which had been whitewashed , and the gate just before our travelers was a mere opening in the wall , with no bars across it . 
No towers or steeples or domes showed above the enclosure , nor was any living thing to be seen as our friends drew near . 
They hesitated to advance but , as the noise did no harm , they entered through the whitewashed wall and quickly discovered the cause of the turmoil . 
Inside were suspended many sheets of tin or thin iron , and against these metal sheets a row of donkeys were pounding their heels with vicious kicks . 
The shaggy man ran up to the nearest donkey and gave the beast a sharp blow with his switch . 
Stop that noise ! he shouted and the donkey stopped kicking the metal sheet and turned its head to look with surprise at the shaggy man . 
He switched the next donkey , and made him stop , and then the next , so that gradually the rattling of heels ceased and the awful noise subsided . 
The donkeys stood in a group and eyed the strangers with fear and trembling . 
What do you mean by making such a racket ? asked the shaggy man , sternly . 
We were scaring away the foxes , said one of the donkeys , meekly . 
Usually they run fast enough when they hear the noise , which makes them afraid . 
There are no foxes here , said the shaggy man . 
I beg to differ with you . 
There's one , anyhow , replied the donkey , sitting upright on its haunches and waving a hoof toward Button Bright . 
We saw him coming and thought the whole army of foxes was marching to attack us . 
Button Bright isn't a fox , explained the shaggy man . 
He's only wearing a fox head for a time , until he can get his own head back . 
Oh , I see , remarked the donkey , waving its left ear reflectively . 
I'm sorry we made such a mistake , and had all our work and worry for nothing . 
The other donkeys by this time were sitting up and examining the strangers with big , glassy eyes . 
They made a queer picture , indeed for they wore wide , white collars around their necks and the collars had many scallops and points . 
The gentlemen donkeys wore high pointed caps set between their great ears , and the lady donkeys wore sunbonnets with holes cut in the top for the ears to stick through . 
But they had no other clothing except their hairy skins , although many wore gold and silver bangles on their front wrists and bands of different metals on their rear ankles . 
When they were kicking they had braced themselves with their front legs , but now they all stood or sat upright on their hind legs and used the front ones as arms . 
Having no fingers or hands the beasts were rather clumsy , as you may guess but Dorothy was surprised to observe how many things they could do with their stiff , heavy hoofs . 
This is a nice way to welcome visitors , I must say ! remarked the shaggy man , in a reproachful tone . 
Oh , we did not mean to be impolite , replied a grey donkey which had not spoken before . 
But you were not expected , nor did you send in your visiting cards , as it is proper to do . 
There is some truth in that , admitted the shaggy man but , now you are informed that we are important and distinguished travelers , I trust you will accord us proper consideration . 
These big words delighted the donkeys , and made them bow to the shaggy man with great respect . 
Said the grey one You shall be taken before his great and glorious Majesty King Kik a bray , who will greet you as becomes your exalted stations . 
That's right , answered Dorothy . 
Take us to some one who knows something . 
Oh , we all know something , my child , or we shouldn't be donkeys , asserted the grey one , with dignity . 
The word 'donkey' means 'clever , you know . 
I didn't know it , she replied . 
I thought it meant 'stupid' . 
Not at all , my child . 
If you will look in the Encyclopedia Donkaniara you will find I'm correct . 
But come I will myself lead you before our splendid , exalted , and most intellectual ruler . 
All donkeys love big words , so it is no wonder the grey one used so many of them . 
The Shaggy Man's Transformation They found the houses of the town all low and square and built of bricks , neatly whitewashed inside and out . 
The houses were not set in rows , forming regular streets , but placed here and there in a haphazard manner which made it puzzling for a stranger to find his way . 
Moreover , a mixed city is much prettier than one with straight streets . 
Dorothy did not agree with this , but she said nothing to contradict it . 
Oh , I see , said the little girl . 
You are quite civilized here . 
Dunkiton , he replied , is the center of the world's highest civilization . 
They came to a house where two youthful donkeys were whitewashing the wall , and Dorothy stopped a moment to watch them . 
That must be fun , said Button Bright . 
No , it's work , replied the old donkey but we make our youngsters do all the whitewashing , to keep them out of mischief . 
Don't they go to school ? asked Dorothy . 
All donkeys are born wise , was the reply , so the only school we need is the school of experience . 
Books are only for those who know nothing , and so are obliged to learn things from other people . 
In other words , the more stupid one is , the more he thinks he knows , observed the shaggy man . 
I'll see if his magnificent Majesty King Kik a bray is at home , said he . 
For a time there was no reply then the door opened far enough to permit a donkey's head to stick out and look at them . 
It was a white head , with big , awful ears and round , solemn eyes . 
Have the foxes gone ? it asked , in a trembling voice . 
They haven't been here , most stupendous Majesty , replied the grey one . 
The new arrivals prove to be travelers of distinction . 
Oh , said the King , in a relieved tone of voice . 
He opened the door wide , and the party marched into a big room , which , Dorothy thought , looked quite unlike a king's palace . 
There were mats of woven grasses on the floor and the place was clean and neat but his Majesty had no other furniture at all perhaps because he didn't need it . 
Now then , said his Majesty , waving his long ears gently to and fro , tell me why you are here , and what you expect me to do for you . 
He eyed Button Bright rather sharply , as if afraid of the little boy's queer head , though it was the shaggy man who undertook to reply . 
All we desire is to pay our respects to your Majesty the cleverest king in all the world , I'm sure and then to continue on our way . 
This polite speech pleased the King very much indeed , it pleased him so much that it proved an unlucky speech for the shaggy man . 
Also , I feel that I love you as well as I do my own favored people , so I will bestow upon you the greatest gift within my power a donkey's head . 
As he spoke he waved his jeweled staff . 
Although the shaggy man cried out and tried to leap backward and escape , it proved of no use . 
Dear me ! dear me ! cried the shaggy man , feeling of his shaggy new head and his long ears . 
Hee haw ! I hate it ! Take it away , quick ! said the shaggy man . 
But I can't do that , was the reply . 
My magic works only one way . 
I can DO things , but I can't UNdo them . 
You'll have to find the Truth Pond , and bathe in its water , in order to get back your own head . 
But I advise you not to do that . 
This head is much more beautiful than the old one . 
That's a matter of taste , said Dorothy . 
Where is the Truth Pond ? asked the shaggy man , earnestly . 
Somewhere in the Land of Oz but just the exact location of it I can not tell , was the answer . 
Don't worry , Shaggy Man , said Dorothy , smiling because her friend wagged his new ears so comically . 
If the Truth Pond is in Oz , we'll be sure to find it when we get there . 
Oh ! Are you going to the Land of Oz ? asked King Kik a bray . 
Haw haw ! Do you know the mighty Princess Ozma ? asked the King , his tone both surprised and eager . 
'Course I do she's my friend , said Dorothy . 
Then perhaps you'll do me a favor , continued the white donkey , much excited . 
What is it ? she asked . 
Perhaps you can get me an invitation to Princess Ozma's birthday celebration , which will be the grandest royal function ever held in Fairyland . 
Hee haw ! You deserve punishment , rather than reward , for giving me this dreadful head , said the shaggy man , sorrowfully . 
I wish you wouldn't say 'hee haw' so much , Polychrome begged him it makes cold chills run down my back . 
But I can't help it , my dear my donkey head wants to bray continually , he replied . 
Doesn't your fox head want to yelp every minute ? he asked Button Bright . 
Don't know , said the boy , still staring at the shaggy man's ears . 
These seemed to interest him greatly , and the sight also made him forget his own fox head , which was a comfort . 
Do as you please , dear , answered Polychrome . 
He might help to amuse the guests of the Princess . 
Good ! Hee haw ! Excellent ! cried Kik a bray , much pleased . 
You shall all have fine suppers and good beds . 
What food would you prefer , a bran mash or ripe oats in the shell ? Neither one , replied Dorothy , promptly . 
Perhaps plain hay , or some sweet juicy grass would suit you better , suggested Kik a bray , musingly . 
Is that all you have to eat ? asked the girl . 
What more do you desire ? Well , you see we're not donkeys , she explained , and so we're used to other food . 
The foxes gave us a nice supper in Foxville . 
We'd like some dewdrops and mist cakes , said Polychrome . 
I'd prefer apples and a ham sandwich , declared the shaggy man , for although I've a donkey head , I still have my own particular stomach . 
I want pie , said Button Bright . 
I think some beefsteak and chocolate layer cake would taste best , said Dorothy . 
Hee haw ! I declare ! exclaimed the King . 
It seems each one of you wants a different food . 
How queer all living creatures are , except donkeys ! And donkeys like you are queerest of all , laughed Polychrome . 
Well , decided the King , I suppose my Magic Staff will produce the things you crave if you are lacking in good taste it is not my fault . 
Dorothy's beefsteak was smoking hot , and the shaggy man's apples were plump and rosy cheeked . 
The King had not thought to provide chairs , so they all stood in their places around the table and ate with good appetite , being hungry . 
The Rainbow's Daughter found three tiny dewdrops on a crystal plate , and Button Bright had a big slice of apple pie , which he devoured eagerly . 
Afterward the King called the brown donkey , which was his favorite servant , and bade it lead his guests to the vacant house where they were to pass the night . 
As soon as it was dark they lay down on the mats and slept comfortably until morning . 
At daybreak there was a dreadful noise throughout the city . 
Every donkey in the place brayed . 
When he heard this the shaggy man woke up and called out Hee haw ! as loud as he could . 
Stop that ! said Button Bright , in a cross voice . 
Both Dorothy and Polly looked at the shaggy man reproachfully . 
I couldn't help it , my dears , he said , as if ashamed of his bray but I'll try not to do it again . 
Of coursed they forgave him , for as he still had the Love Magnet in his pocket they were all obliged to love him as much as ever . 
They did not see the King again , but Kik a bray remembered them for a table appeared again in their room with the same food upon it as on the night before . 
Don't want pie for breakfus' , said Button Bright . 
I'll give you some of my beefsteak , proposed Dorothy there's plenty for us all . 
That suited the boy better , but the shaggy man said he was content with his apples and sandwiches , although he ended the meal by eating Button Bright's pie . 
Polly liked her dewdrops and mist cakes better than any other food , so they all enjoyed an excellent breakfast . 
Toto had the scraps left from the beefsteak , and he stood up nicely on his hind legs while Dorothy fed them to him . 
Breakfast ended , they passed through the village to the side opposite that by which they had entered , the brown servant donkey guiding them through the maze of scattered houses . 
There was the road again , leading far away into the unknown country beyond . 
King Kik a bray says you must not forget his invitation , said the brown donkey , as they passed through the opening in the wall . 
I shan't , promised Dorothy . 
Toto ran after her at times , barking joyously the while , only to become sober again and trot along at Dorothy's heels . 
The little Kansas girl walked holding Button Bright's hand clasped in her own , and the wee boy with his fox head covered by the sailor hat presented an odd appeaance . 
Strangest of all , perhaps , was the shaggy man , with his shaggy donkey head , who shuffled along in the rear with his hands thrust deep in his big pockets . 
None of the party was really unhappy . 
The Musicker About the middle of the forenoon they began to go up a long hill . 
By and by this hill suddenly dropped down into a pretty valley , where the travelers saw , to their surprise , a small house standing by the road side . 
It was the first house they had seen , and they hastened into the valley to discover who lived there . 
No one was in sight as they approached , but when they began to get nearer the house they heard queer sounds coming from it . 
Don't know , said Button Bright . 
Sounds to me like a played out phonograph , said the shaggy man , lifting his enormous ears to listen . 
Oh , there just COULDN'T be a funnygraf in Fairyland ! cried Dorothy . 
It's rather pretty , isn't it ? asked Polychrome , trying to dance to the strains . 
Tiddle widdle iddle , oom pom pom , Oom pom pom oom pom pom ! came the music to their ears , more distinctly as they drew nearer the house . 
Presently , they saw a little fat man sitting on a bench before the door . 
He wore a red , braided jacket that reached to his waist , a blue waistcoat , and white trousers with gold stripes down the sides . 
On his bald head was perched a little , round , red cap held in place by a rubber elastic underneath his chin . 
His face was round , his eyes a faded blue , and he wore white cotton gloves . 
The man leaned on a stout gold headed cane , bending forward on his seat to watch his visitors approach . 
What's a musicker ? asked Dorothy . 
Him ! said the boy . 
The fat man looked at him sadly and began his reply . 
When he spoke the music changed and the words seemed to accompany the notes . 
He said or rather sang It isn't a noise that you hear , But Music , harmonic and clear . 
My breath makes me play Like an organ , all day That bass note is in my left ear . 
How funny ! exclaimed Dorothy he says his breath makes the music . 
That's all nonsense , declared the shaggy man but now the music began again , and they all listened carefully . 
My lungs are full of reeds like those In organs , therefore I suppose , If I breathe in or out my nose , The reeds are bound to play . 
Don't you think so ? Don't know , said Button Bright . 
Toto said , Bow wow ! and the others laughed . 
Perhaps that's why he lives all alone , suggested Dorothy . 
Yes if he had neighbors , they might do him an injury , responded the shaggy man . 
All this while the little fat musicker was breathing the notes Tiddle tiddle iddle , oom , pom pom , and they had to speak loud in order to hear themselves . 
Some people try , but can't , to play And have to practice every day But I've been musical always , since first my life began . 
Why , I b'lieve he's proud of it , exclaimed Dorothy and seems to me I've heard worse music than he makes . 
Where ? asked Button Bright . 
I've forgotten , just now . 
But Mr. Da Capo is certainly a strange person isn't he ? and p'r'aps he's the only one of his kind in all the world . 
I don't quite understand that , said Polychrome , with a puzzled look but perhaps it's because I'm accustomed only to the music of the spheres . 
What's that ? asked Button Bright . 
Oh , Polly means the atmosphere and hemisphere , I s'pose , explained Dorothy . 
Oh , said Button Bright . 
Bow wow ! said Toto . 
But the musicker was still breathing his constant Oom , pom pom Oom pom pom and it seemed to jar on the shaggy man's nerves . 
Stop it , can't you ? he cried angrily or breathe in a whisper or put a clothes pin on your nose . 
The shaggy man had to laugh at this , and when he laughed he stretched his donkey mouth wide open . 
Said Dorothy I don't know how good his poetry is , but it seems to fit the notes , so that's all that can be 'xpected . 
I like it , said Button Bright , who was staring hard at the musicker , his little legs spread wide apart . 
To the surprise of his companions , the boy asked this long question If I swallowed a mouth organ , what would I be ? An organette , said the shaggy man . 
But come , my dears I think the best thing we can do is to continue on our journey before Button Bright swallows anything . 
We must try to find that Land of Oz , you know . 
No thank you , said Dorothy we prefer to travel alone . 
But if I see Ozma I'll tell her you want to come to her birthday party . 
Let's be going , urged the shaggy man , anxiously . 
Polly was already dancing along the road , far in advance , and the others turned to follow her . 
Toto did not like the fat musicker and made a grab for his chubby leg . 
Dorothy quickly caught up the growling little dog and hurried after her companions , who were walking faster than usual in order to get out of hearing . 
I'm glad I don't have to live with the organ man aren't you , Polly ? said Dorothy . 
Yes indeed , answered the Rainbow's Daughter . 
He's nice , declared Button Bright , soberly . 
I hope your Princess Ozma won't invite him to her birthday celebration , remarked the shaggy man for the fellow's music would drive her guests all crazy . 
You've given me an idea , Button Bright I believe the musicker must have swallowed an accordeon in his youth . 
What's 'cordeon ? asked the boy . 
It's a kind of pleating , explained Dorothy , putting down the dog . 
Bow wow ! said Toto , and ran away at a mad gallop to chase a bumble bee . 
Facing the Scoodlers The country wasn't so pretty now . 
Before the travelers appeared a rocky plain covered with hills on which grew nothing green . 
They were nearing some low mountains , too , and the road , which before had been smooth and pleasant to walk upon , grew rough and uneven . 
Button Bright's little feet stumbled more than once , and Polychrome ceased her dancing because the walking was now so difficult that she had no trouble to keep warm . 
It had become afternoon , yet there wasn't a thing for their luncheon except two apples which the shaggy man had taken from the breakfast table . 
He divided these into four pieces and gave a portion to each of his companions . 
Dorothy and Button Bright were glad to get theirs but Polly was satisfied with a small bite , and Toto did not like apples . 
It looks now as if it might end pretty soon , remarked the shaggy man and what shall we do if it does ? Don't know , said Button Bright . 
If I had my Magic Belt , replied Dorothy , thoughtfully , it could do us a lot of good just now . 
What is your Magic Belt ? asked Polychrome . 
It's a thing I captured from the Nome King one day , and it can do 'most any wonderful thing . 
But I left it with Ozma , you know 'cause magic won't work in Kansas , but only in fairy countries . 
Is this a fairy country ? asked Button Bright . 
I should think you'd know , said the little girl , gravely . 
If it wasn't a fairy country you couldn't have a fox head and the shaggy man couldn't have a donkey head , and the Rainbow's Daughter would be invis'ble . 
What's that ? asked the boy . 
You don't seem to know anything , Button Bright . 
Invis'ble is a thing you can't see . 
Then Toto's invis'ble , declared the boy , and Dorothy found he was right . 
Toto had disappeared from view , but they could hear him barking furiously among the heaps of grey rock ahead of them . 
They moved forward a little faster to see what the dog was barking at , and found perched upon a point of rock by the roadside a curious creature . 
Its hands were black , too , and its toes curled down , like a bird's . 
The creature was black all over except its hair , which was fine , and yellow , banged in front across the black forehead and cut close at the sides . 
The eyes , which were fixed steadily upon the barking dog , were small and sparkling and looked like the eyes of a weasel . 
What in the world do you s'pose that is ? asked Dorothy in a hushed voice , as the little group of travelers stood watching the strange creature . 
Don't know , said Button Bright . 
The thing gave a jump and turned half around , sitting in the same place but with the other side of its body facing them . 
Instead of being black , it was now pure white , with a face like that of a clown in a circus and hair of a brilliant purple . 
The creature could bend either way , and its white toes now curled the same way the black ones on the other side had done . 
It has a face both front and back , whispered Dorothy , wonderingly only there's no back at all , but two fronts . 
Having made the turn , the being sat motionless as before , while Toto barked louder at the white man than he had done at the black one . 
Once , said the shaggy man , I had a jumping jack like that , with two faces . 
Was it alive ? asked Button Bright . 
No , replied the shaggy man it worked on strings and was made of wood . 
The two twisted their heads around and showed a black face on the white side of one and a white face on the black side of the other . 
How curious , said Polychrome and how loose their heads seem to be ! Are they friendly to us , do you think ? Can't tell , Polly , replied Dorothy . 
The creatures flopped first one way and then the other , showing black or white by turns and now another joined them , appearing on another rock . 
Our friends had come to a little hollow in the hills , and the place where they now stood was surrounded by jagged peaks of rock , except where the road ran through . 
Now there are four of them , said the shaggy man . 
Lots of 'em ! cried Button Bright and so there were quite a row of the two sided black and white creatures sitting on the rocks all around . 
Toto stopped barking and ran between Dorothy's feet , where he crouched down as if afraid . 
The creatures did not look pleasant or friendly , to be sure , and the shaggy man's donkey face became solemn , indeed . 
What do you want ? called the shaggy man . 
But what do you want us for ? asked the shaggy man , uneasily . 
Soup ! they all shouted , as if with one voice . 
Goodness me ! said Dorothy , trembling a little the Scoodlers must be reg'lar cannibals . 
Don't want to be soup , protested Button Bright , beginning to cry . 
Hush , dear , said the little girl , trying to comfort him we don't any of us want to be soup . 
But don't worry the shaggy man will take care of us . 
Will he ? asked Polychrome , who did not like the Scoodlers at all , and kept close to Dorothy . 
I'll try , promised the shaggy man but he looked worried . 
Happening just then to feel the Love Magnet in his pocket , he said to the creatures , with more confidence Don't you love me ? Yes ! they shouted , all together . 
Then you mustn't harm me , or my friends , said the shaggy man , firmly . 
We love you in soup ! they yelled , and in a flash turned their white sides to the front . 
How dreadful ! said Dorothy . 
This is a time , Shaggy Man , when you get loved too much . 
Don't want to be soup ! wailed Button Bright again and Toto began to whine dismally , as if he didn't want to be soup , either . 
Follow me , my dears , and don't pay any attention to what they do or say . 
With this , he began to march along the road to the opening in the rocks ahead , and the others kept close behind him . 
At this the Scoodlers raised a howl . 
Two of them picked their heads from their shoulders and hurled them at the shaggy man with such force that he fell over in a heap , greatly astonished . 
The two now ran forward with swift leaps , caught up their heads , and put them on again , after which they sprang back to their positions on the rocks . 
Escaping the Soup Kettle The shaggy man got up and felt of himself to see if he was hurt but he was not . 
One of the heads had struck his breast and the other his left shoulder yet though they had knocked him down , the heads were not hard enough to bruise him . 
Come on , he said firmly we've got to get out of here some way , and forward he started again . 
The Scoodlers began yelling and throwing their heads in great numbers at our frightened friends . 
One head struck Toto , who first yelped and then grabbed the head by an ear and started running away with it . 
The little girl and the Rainbow's Daughter had both escaped the shower of heads , but they saw now that it would be useless to try to run away from the dreadful Scoodlers . 
We may as well submit , declared the shaggy man , in a rueful voice , as he got upon his feet again . 
They moved with great rapidity and there was something about their glittering eyes and contrasting colors and removable heads that inspired the poor prisoners with horror , and made them long to escape . 
At the edge of this mountain was a deep gulf so deep that when you looked into it there was nothing but blackness below . 
Across the gulf was a narrow bridge of rock , and at the other end of the bridge was an arched opening that led into the mountain . 
Over this bridge the Scoodlers led their prisoners , through the opening into the mountain , which they found to be an immense hollow dome lighted by several holes in the roof . 
All around the circular space were built rock houses , set close together , each with a door in the front wall . 
None of these houses was more than six feet wide , but the Scoodlers were thin people sidewise and did not need much room . 
What's that ? asked the shaggy man , drawing back as they approached this place , so that they were forced to push him forward . 
All right , said Button Bright , more cheerfully . 
But the Scoodlers were not ready to make soup yet . 
They led the captives into a house at the farthest side of the cave a house somewhat wider than the others . 
Who lives here ? asked the Rainbow's Daughter . 
The Scoodlers nearest her replied The Queen . 
For the Queen of the Scoodlers proved to be much more dreadful in appearance than any of her people . 
One side of her was fiery red , with jet black hair and green eyes and the other side of her was bright yellow , with crimson hair and black eyes . 
Her form was lean and bony and both her faces were deeply wrinkled . 
What have we here ? asked the Queen sharply , as our friends were made to stand before her . 
Soup ! cried the guard of Scoodlers , speaking together . 
We're not ! said Dorothy , indignantly we're nothing of the sort . 
Ah , but you will be soon , retorted the Queen , a grim smile making her look more dreadful than before . 
Pardon me , most beautiful vision , said the shaggy man , bowing before the queen politely . 
I must request your Serene Highness to let us go our way without being made into soup . 
For I own the Love Magnet , and whoever meets me must love me and all my friends . 
True , replied the Queen . 
We love you very much so much that we intend to eat your broth with real pleasure . 
But tell me , do you think I am so beautiful ? You won't be at all beautiful if you eat me , he said , shaking his head sadly . 
Handsome is as handsome does , you know . 
The Queen turned to Button Bright . 
Do YOU think I'm beautiful ? she asked . 
No , said the boy you're ugly . 
I think you're a fright , said Dorothy . 
If you could see yourself you'd be terribly scared , added Polly . 
The Queen scowled at them and flopped from her red side to her yellow side . 
Take them away , she commanded the guard , and at six o'clock run them through the meat chopper and start the soup kettle boiling . 
And put plenty of salt in the broth this time , or I'll punish the cooks severely . 
Any onions , your Majesty ? asked one of the guard . 
Plenty of onions and garlic and a dash of red pepper . 
Now , go ! The Scoodlers led the captives away and shut them up in one of the houses , leaving only a single Scoodler to keep guard . 
The place was a sort of store house containing bags of potatoes and baskets of carrots , onions and turnips . 
These , said their guard , pointing to the vegetables , we use to flavor our soups with . 
But the shaggy man was brave and did not intend to submit to such a horrid fate without a struggle . 
Whenever she approached the shaggy man he would whisper something in her ear , and Polly would nod her pretty head as if she understood . 
The shaggy man told Dorothy and Button Bright to stand before him while he emptied the potatoes out of one of the sacks . 
I'll carry Button Bright , he said , for he knew the little boy's legs were too short to run fast . 
Dorothy picked up Toto and then seized Polly's hand and ran swiftly toward the entrance to the cave . 
The shaggy man perched Button Bright on his shoulders and ran after them . 
They moved so quickly and their escape was so wholly unexpected that they had almost reached the bridge when one of the Scoodlers looked out of his house and saw them . 
The creature raised a shrill cry that brought all of its fellows bounding out of the numerous doors , and at once they started in chase . 
Dorothy and Polly had reached the bridge and crossed it when the Scoodlers began throwing their heads . 
The headless bodies of the foremost Scoodlers kept the others from running close up , but they also threw their heads in an effort to stop the escaping prisoners . 
The shaggy man caught them all and sent them whirling down into the black gulf . 
Among them he noticed the crimson and yellow head of the Queen , and this he tossed after the others with right good will . 
The shaggy man laughed and walked across the bridge to rejoin his companions . 
It's lucky I learned to play base ball when I was young , he remarked , for I caught all those heads easily and never missed one . 
But come along , little ones the Scoodlers will never bother us or anyone else any more . 
But the shaggy man assured him that all danger of their being made into soup was now past , as the Scoodlers would be unable to eat soup for some time to come . 
Johnny Dooit Does It It's getting awful rough walking , said Dorothy , as they trudged along . 
Button Bright gave a deep sigh and said he was hungry . 
Indeed , all were hungry , and thirsty , too for they had eaten nothing but the apples since breakfast so their steps lagged and they grew silent and weary . 
At last they slowly passed over the crest of a barren hill and saw before them a line of green trees with a strip of grass at their feet . 
An agreeable fragrance was wafted toward them . 
Our travelers , hot and tired , ran forward on beholding this refreshing sight and were not long in coming to the trees . 
Here they found a spring of pure bubbling water , around which the grass was full of wild strawberry plants , their pretty red berries ripe and ready to eat . 
Some of the trees bore yellow oranges and some russet pears , so the hungry adventurers suddenly found themselves provided with plenty to eat and to drink . 
They lost no time in picking the biggest strawberries and ripest oranges and soon had feasted to their hearts' content . 
Walking beyond the line of trees they saw before them a fearful , dismal desert , everywhere gray sand . 
Then we musn't try it , answered the shaggy man thoughtfully . 
But as we can't go ahead and there's no use going back , what shall we do next ? Don't know , said Button Bright . 
I'm sure I don't know , either , added Dorothy , despondently . 
But I suppose father's too busy just now to search the world for me . 
Don't want to dance , said Button Bright , sitting down wearily upon the soft grass . 
It's very good of you , Polly , said Dorothy but there are other things that would suit me better than dancing on rainbows . 
I'm 'fraid they'd be kind of soft an' squashy under foot , anyhow , although they're so pretty to look at . 
This didn't help to solve the problem , and they all fell silent and looked at one another questioningly . 
Button Bright got a stick and began to dig in the earth , and the others watched him for a while in deep thought . 
Long after the others were asleep , however , the shaggy man sat in the starlight by the spring , gazing thoughtfully into its bubbling waters . 
You ought to know SOME magic , being the Rainbow's Daughter , continued Dorothy , earnestly . 
But we who live on the rainbow among the fleecy clouds have no use for magic , replied Polychrome . 
What I'd like , said Dorothy , is to find some way to cross the desert to the Land of Oz and its Emerald City . 
I've crossed it already , you know , more than once . 
First a cyclone carried my house over , and some Silver Shoes brought me back again in half a second . 
Then Ozma took me over on her Magic Carpet , and the Nome King's Magic Belt took me home that time . 
You see it was magic that did it every time 'cept the first , and we can't 'spect a cyclone to happen along and take us to the Emerald City now . 
No indeed , returned Polly , with a shudder , I hate cyclones , anyway . 
That's why I wanted to find out if you could do any magic , said the little Kansas girl . 
I'm sure I can't and I'm sure Button Bright can't and the only magic the shaggy man has is the Love Magnet , which won't help us much . 
Don't be too sure of that , my dear , spoke the shaggy man , a smile on his donkey face . 
Who is your friend ? asked Dorothy . 
What can Johnny do ? Anything , answered the shaggy man , with confidence . 
Ask him to come , she exclaimed , eagerly . 
The shaggy man took the Love Magnet from his pocket and unwrapped the paper that surrounded it . 
Holding the charm in the palm of his hand he looked at it steadily and said these words Dear Johnny Dooit , come to me . 
I need you bad as bad can be . 
Well , here I am , said a cheery little voice but you shouldn't say you need me bad , 'cause I'm always , ALWAYS , good . 
At this they quickly whirled around to find a funny little man sitting on a big copper chest , puffing smoke from a long pipe . 
His nose was broad , and stuck up a little but his eyes were twinkling and merry . 
Good morning , Johnny , said the shaggy man . 
Thank you for coming to me so quickly . 
I never waste time , said the newcomer , promptly . 
Johnny Dooit puffed his pipe and looked carefully at the dreadful desert in front of them stretching so far away they could not see its end . 
You must ride , he said , briskly . 
What in ? asked the shaggy man . 
In a sand boat , which has runners like a sled and sails like a ship . 
The wind will blow you swiftly across the desert and the sand cannot touch your flesh to turn it into dust . 
Good ! cried Dorothy , clapping her hands delightedly . 
That was the way the Magic Carpet took us across . 
We didn't have to touch the horrid sand at all . 
But where is the sand boat ? asked the shaggy man , looking all around him . 
I'll make you one , said Johnny Dooit . 
As he spoke , he knocked the ashes from his pipe and put it in his pocket . 
Then he unlocked the copper chest and lifted the lid , and Dorothy saw it was full of shining tools of all sorts and shapes . 
Johnny Dooit moved quickly now so quickly that they were astonished at the work he was able to accomplish . 
He had in his chest a tool for everything he wanted to do , and these must have been magic tools because they did their work so fast and so well . 
The man hummed a little song as he worked , and Dorothy tried to listen to it . 
The only real unhappy one Is he who dares to shirk The only really happy one Is he who cares to work . 
Whatever Johnny Dooit was singing he was certainly doing things , and they all stood by and watched him in amazement . 
He seized an axe and in a couple of chops felled a tree . 
Next he took a saw and in a few minutes sawed the tree trunk into broad , long boards . 
He then nailed the boards together into the shape of a boat , about twelve feet long and four feet wide . 
He cut from another tree a long , slender pole which , when trimmed of its branches and fastened upright in the center of the boat , served as a mast . 
Dorothy fairly gasped with wonder to see the thing grow so speedily before her eyes , and both Button Bright and Polly looked on with the same absorbed interest . 
It ought to be painted , said Johnny Dooit , tossing his tools back into the chest , for that would make it look prettier . 
But 'though I can paint it for you in three seconds it would take an hour to dry , and that's a waste of time . 
We don't care how it looks , said the shaggy man , if only it will take us across the desert . 
It will do that , declared Johnny Dooit . 
All you need worry about is tipping over . 
Did you ever sail a ship ? I've seen one sailed , said the shaggy man . 
Sail this boat the way you've seen a ship sailed , and you'll be across the sands before you know it . 
With this he slammed down the lid of the chest , and the noise made them all wink . 
While they were winking the workman disappeared , tools and all . 
The Deadly Desert Crossed Oh , that's too bad ! cried Dorothy I wanted to thank Johnny Dooit for all his kindness to us . 
He hasn't time to listen to thanks , replied the shaggy man but I'm sure he knows we are grateful . 
I suppose he is already at work in some other part of the world . 
They now looked more carefully at the sand boat , and saw that the bottom was modeled with two sharp runners which would glide through the sand . 
The front of the sand boat was pointed like the bow of a ship , and there was a rudder at the stern to steer by . 
Get in , my dears , said the shaggy man I'm sure I can manage this boat as well as any sailor . 
All you need do is sit still in your places . 
Dorothy got in , Toto in her arms , and sat on the bottom of the boat just in front of the mast . 
Button Bright sat in front of Dorothy , while Polly leaned over the bow . 
The shaggy man knelt behind the mast . 
When all were ready he raised the sail half way . 
At once the sand boat started forward slowly at first , then with added speed . 
Look out ! she screamed to the shaggy man . 
Go slowly , or we shall smash into the rocks . 
He heard her , and tried to pull down the sail but the wind would not let go of the broad canvas and the ropes had become tangled . 
Nearer and nearer they drew to the great rocks , and the shaggy man was in despair because he could do nothing to stop the wild rush of the sand boat . 
They reached the edge of the desert and bumped squarely into the rocks . 
The shaggy man made the little dog let go , and sat up to look around him . 
Dorothy was feeling one of her front teeth , which was loosened by knocking against her knee as she fell . 
It was a mere mass of splinters now , crushed out of shape against the rocks . 
The wind had torn away the sail and carried it to the top of a tall tree , where the fragments of it fluttered like a white flag . 
Well , he said , cheerfully , we're here but where the here is I don't know . 
It must be some part of the Land of Oz , observed Dorothy , coming to his side . 
Must it ? 'Course it must . 
We're across the desert , aren't we ? And somewhere in the middle of Oz is the Emerald City . 
To be sure , said the shaggy man , nodding . 
But I don't see any people about , to show us the way , she continued . 
Let's hunt for them , he suggested . 
There must be people somewhere but perhaps they did not expect us , and so are not at hand to give us a welcome . 
The Truth Pond They now made a more careful examination of the country around them . 
All was fresh and beautiful after the sultriness of the desert , and the sunshine and sweet , crisp air were delightful to the wanderers . 
Little mounds of yellowish green were away at the right , while on the left waved a group of tall leafy trees bearing yellow blossoms that looked like tassels and pompoms . 
Among the grasses carpeting the ground were pretty buttercups and cowslips and marigolds . 
But I thought this was the Land of Oz , replied the shaggy man , as if greatly disappointed . 
So it is , she declared but there are four parts to the Land of Oz . 
The North Country is purple , and it's the Country of the Gillikins . 
The East Country is blue , and that's the Country of the Munchkins . 
Down at the South is the red Country of the Quadlings , and here , in the West , the yellow Country of the Winkies . 
This is the part that is ruled by the Tin Woodman , you know . 
Who's he ? asked Button Bright . 
Why , he's the tin man I told you about . 
His name is Nick Chopper , and he has a lovely heart given him by the wonderful Wizard . 
Where does HE live ? asked the boy . 
The Wizard ? Oh , he lives in the Emerald City , which is just in the middle of Oz , where the corners of the four countries meet . 
Oh , said Button Bright , puzzled by this explanation . 
We must be some distance from the Emerald City , remarked the shaggy man . 
That's true , she replied so we'd better start on and see if we can find any of the Winkies . 
Did you conquer her ? asked Polly . 
Why , I melted her with a bucket of water , and that was the end of her , replied Dorothy . 
After that the people were free , you know , and they made Nick Chopper that's the Tin Woodman their Emp'ror . 
What's that ? asked Button Bright . 
Emp'ror ? Oh , it's something like an alderman , I guess . 
Oh , said the boy . 
But I thought Princess Ozma ruled Oz , said the shaggy man . 
So she does she rules the Emerald City and all the four countries of Oz but each country has another little ruler , not so big as Ozma . 
It's like the officers of an army , you see the little rulers are all captains , and Ozma's the general . 
Under the shade of the trees they found , in the center of the circle , a crystal pool , its water as still as glass . 
It must have been deep , too , for when Polychrome bent over it she gave a little sigh of pleasure . 
Why , it's a mirror ! she cried for she could see all her pretty face and fluffy , rainbow tinted gown reflected in the pool , as natural as life . 
Dorothy bent over , too , and began to arrange her hair , blown by the desert wind into straggling tangles . 
Button Bright leaned over the edge next , and then began to cry , for the sight of his fox head frightened the poor little fellow . 
I guess I won't look , remarked the shaggy man , sadly , for he didn't like his donkey head , either . 
Found what ? asked Dorothy , running to him . 
Now , at last , I may get rid of this frightful head for we were told , you remember , that only the Truth Pond could restore to me my proper face . 
Me , too ! shouted Button Bright , trotting up to them . 
Of course , said Dorothy . 
It will cure you both of your bad heads , I guess . 
Isn't it lucky we found it ? It is , indeed , replied the shaggy man . 
I hated dreadfully to go to Princess Ozma looking like this and she's to have a birthday celebration , too . 
Down he went , out of sight entirely , so that only his sailor hat floated on the top of the Truth Pond . 
He soon bobbed up , and the shaggy man seized him by his sailor collar and dragged him to the shore , dripping and gasping for breath . 
Oh , what a darling ! cried Polly , and would have hugged the little one had he not been so wet . 
Their joyful exclamations made the child rub the water out of his eyes and look at his friends questioningly . 
You're all right now , dear , said Dorothy . 
Come and look at yourself . 
She led him to the pool , and although there were still a few ripples on the surface of the water he could see his reflection plainly . 
It's me ! he said , in a pleased yet awed whisper . 
'Course it is , replied the girl , and we're all as glad as you are , Button Bright . 
Well , announced the shaggy man , it's my turn next . 
He took off his shaggy coat and laid it on the grass and dived head first into the Truth Pond . 
When he came up the donkey head had disappeared , and the shaggy man's own shaggy head was in its place , with the water dripping in little streams from his shaggy whiskers . 
He scrambled ashore and shook himself to get off some of the wet , and then leaned over the pool to look admiringly at his reflected face . 
You're all right , Shaggy Man , declared Dorothy . 
And Button Bright is all right , too . 
So let's thank the Truth Pond for being so nice , and start on our journey to the Emerald City . 
I hate to leave it , murmured the shaggy man , with a sigh . 
A truth pond wouldn't be a bad thing to carry around with us . 
But he put on his coat and started with the others in search of some one to direct them on their way . 
Tik Tok and Billina They had not walked far across the flower strewn meadows when they came upon a fine road leading toward the northwest and winding gracefully among the pretty yellow hills . 
That way , said Dorothy , must be the direction of the Emerald City . 
We'd better follow the road until we meet some one or come to a house . 
It's good to be able to whistle again , remarked the shaggy man , for those donkey lips were so thick I could not whistle a note with them . 
He warbled a tune as merrily as any bird . 
You'll look more natural at the birthday celebration , too , said Dorothy , happy in seeing her friends so happy . 
Polychrome was dancing ahead in her usual sprightly manner , whirling gaily along the smooth , level road , until she passed from sight around the curve of one of the mounds . 
Suddenly they heard her exclaim Oh ! and she appeared again , running toward them at full speed . 
What's the matter , Polly ? asked Dorothy , perplexed . 
Perched on the copper man's shoulder sat a yellow hen , with fluffy feathers and a pearl necklace around her throat . 
Oh , Tik tok ! cried Dorothy , running forward . 
When she came to him , the copper man lifted the little girl in his copper arms and kissed her cheek with his copper lips . 
Oh , Billina ! cried Dorothy , in a glad voice , and the yellow hen flew to her arms , to be hugged and petted by turns . 
The others were curiously crowding around the group , and the girl said to them It's Tik tok and Billina and oh ! I'm so glad to see them again . 
Wel come to Oz , said the copper man in a monotonous voice . 
Dorothy sat right down in the road , the yellow hen in her arms , and began to stroke Billina's back . 
Said the hen Dorothy , dear , I've got some wonderful news to tell you . 
Tell it quick , Billina ! said the girl . 
Stop , Toto ! Stop that this minute ! she commanded . 
She slapped his ears once or twice and told him to behave , and the yellow hen flew to Tik tok's shoulder again , where she was safe . 
What a brute ! croaked Billina , glaring down at the little dog . 
Toto isn't a brute , replied Dorothy , but at home Uncle Henry has to whip him sometimes for chasing the chickens . 
Toto wagged his tail as if he understood . 
The miserable thing can't talk , said Billina , with a sneer . 
Yes , he can , replied Dorothy he talks with his tail , and I know everything he says . 
If you could wag your tail , Billina , you wouldn't need words to talk with . 
It isn't nonsense at all . 
Just now Toto says he's sorry , and that he'll try to love you for my sake . 
Don't you , Toto ? Bow wow ! said Toto , wagging his tail again . 
But I've such wonderful news for you , Dorothy , cried the yellow hen I've Wait a minute , dear , interrupted the little girl I've got to introduce you all , first . 
Do they all wind up together ? asked the shaggy man . 
But he works just lovely , and Tik tok was a good friend to me once , and saved my life and Billina's life , too . 
Is he alive ? asked Button Bright , looking hard at the copper man . 
Oh , no , but his machinery makes him just as good as alive . 
Only Toto isn't a new friend , 'cause he's been to Oz before . 
The copper man bowed low , removing his copper hat as he did so . 
I'm ve ry pleased to meet Dor o thy's fr r r r Here he stopped short . 
Oh , I guess his speech needs winding ! said the little girl , running behind the copper man to get the key off a hook at his back . 
She wound him up at a place under his right arm and he went on to say Par don me for run ning down . 
I was a bout to say I am pleased to meet Dor o thy's friends , who must be my friends . 
The words were somewhat jerky , but plain to understand . 
And this is Billina , continued Dorothy , introducing the yellow hen , and they all bowed to her in turn . 
I've such wonderful news , said the hen , turning her head so that one bright eye looked full at Dorothy . 
What is it , dear ? asked the girl . 
I've hatched out ten of the loveliest chicks you ever saw . 
Oh , how nice ! And where are they , Billina ? I left them at home . 
But they're beauties , I assure you , and all wonderfully clever . 
Which one ? asked the girl . 
All of them , replied Billina . 
Why did you name them all with the same name ? It was so hard to tell them apart , explained the hen . 
Now , when I call 'Dorothy , they all come running to me in a bunch it's much easier , after all , than having a separate name for each . 
I'm just dying to see 'em , Billina , said Dorothy , eagerly . 
Don't know , said Button Bright , who was half scared . 
Polly whirled away to a distance and turned to look at the copper man in a fright . 
His thoughts have run down , this time , remarked Billina composedly , as she sat on Tik tok's shoulder and pruned her sleek feathers . 
When he can't think , he can't talk properly , any more than you can . 
You'll have to wind up his thoughts , Dorothy , or else I'll have to finish his story myself . 
Dorothy ran around and got the key again and wound up Tik tok under his left arm , after which he could speak plainly again . 
Par don me , he said , but when my thoughts run down , my speech has no mean ing , for words are formed on ly by thought . 
I was a bout to say that Oz ma sent us to wel come you and in vite you to come straight to the Em er ald Ci ty . 
She was too bus y to come her self , for she is pre par ing for her birth day cel e bra tion , which is to be a grand af fair . 
I've heard of it , said Dorothy , and I'm glad we've come in time to attend . 
Is it far from here to the Emerald City ? Not ve ry far , answered Tik tok , and we have plen ty of time . 
To night we will stop at the pal ace of the Tin Wood man , and to mor row night we will ar rive at the Em er ald Ci ty . 
I'd like to see dear Nick Chopper again . 
How's his heart ? It's fine , said Billina the Tin Woodman says it gets softer and kindlier every day . 
He's waiting at his castle to welcome you , Dorothy but he couldn't come with us because he's getting polished as bright as possible for Ozma's party . 
Well then , said Dorothy , let's start on , and we can talk more as we go . 
They proceeded on their journey in a friendly group , for Polychrome had discovered that the copper man was harmless and was no longer afraid of him . 
Button Bright was also reassured , and took quite a fancy to Tik tok . 
He wanted the clockwork man to open himself , so that he might see the wheels go round but that was a thing Tik tok could not do . 
Button Bright then wanted to wind up the copper man , and Dorothy promised he should do so as soon as any part of the machinery ran down . 
Polly once more joyously danced ahead and Toto ran after her , barking with glee . 
The shaggy man was left to walk behind but he didn't seem to mind that a bit , and whistled merrily or looked curiously upon the pretty scenes they passed . 
At last they came to a hilltop from which the tin castle of Nick Chopper could plainly be seen , its towers glistening magnificently under the rays of the declining sun . 
How pretty ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
I've never seen the Emp'ror's new house before . 
He built it because the old castle was damp , and likely to rust his tin body , said Billina . 
All those towers and steeples and domes and gables took a lot of tin , as you can see . 
Is it a toy ? asked Button Bright softly . 
No , dear , answered Dorothy it's better than that . 
It's the fairy dwelling of a fairy prince . 
The Emperor's Tin Castle The grounds around Nick Chopper's new house were laid out in pretty flower beds , with fountains of crystal water and statues of tin representing the Emperor's personal friends . 
Dorothy was astonished and delighted to find a tin statue of herself standing on a tin pedestal at a bend in the avenue leading up to the entrance . 
It was life size and showed her in her sunbonnet with her basket on her arm , just as she had first appeared in the Land of Oz . 
Oh , Toto you're there too ! she exclaimed and sure enough there was the tin figure of Toto lying at the tin Dorothy's feet . 
Also , Dorothy saw figures of the Scarecrow , and the Wizard , and Ozma , and of many others , including Tik tok . 
They reached the grand tin entrance to the tin castle , and the Tin Woodman himself came running out of the door to embrace little Dorothy and give her a glad welcome . 
He welcomed her friends as well , and the Rainbow's Daughter he declared to be the loveliest vision his tin eyes had ever beheld . 
He patted Button Bright's curly head tenderly , for he was fond of children , and turned to the shaggy man and shook both his hands at the same time . 
Nick Chopper , the Emperor of the Winkies , who was also known throughout the Land of Oz as the Tin Woodman , was certainly a remarkable person . 
The wonderful Wizard of Oz had given him an excellent heart to replace his old one , and he didn't at all mind being tin . 
Every one loved him , he loved every one and he was therefore as happy as the day was long . 
The Emperor was proud of his new tin castle , and showed his visitors through all the rooms . 
Every bit of the furniture was made of brightly polished tin the tables , chairs , beds , and all even the floors and walls were of tin . 
I suppose , said he , that there are no cleverer tinsmiths in all the world than the Winkies . 
It would be hard to match this castle in Kansas wouldn't it , little Dorothy ? Very hard , replied the child , gravely . 
It must have cost a lot of money , remarked the shaggy man . 
Money ! Money in Oz ! cried the Tin Woodman . 
What a queer idea ! Did you suppose we are so vulgar as to use money here ? Why not ? asked the shaggy man . 
Fortunately money is not known in the Land of Oz at all . 
Good ! cried the shaggy man , greatly pleased to hear this . 
I also despise money a man in Butterfield owes me fifteen cents , and I will not take it from him . 
The Land of Oz is surely the most favored land in all the world , and its people the happiest . 
I should like to live here always . 
The Tin Woodman listened with respectful attention . 
Already he loved the shaggy man , although he did not yet know of the Love Magnet . 
I'll try to prove that , said the shaggy man , earnestly . 
And now , continued the Emperor , you must all go to your rooms and prepare for dinner , which will presently be served in the grand tin dining hall . 
I care little about dress , said the shaggy man , indifferently . 
So I should imagine , replied the Emperor , with true politeness . 
They were shown to their rooms and permitted to make such toilets as they could , and soon they assembled again in the grand tin dining hall , even Toto being present . 
Toto behaved himself , and sat in a tin high chair beside Dorothy and ate his dinner from a tin platter . 
Indeed , they all ate from tin dishes , but these were of pretty shapes and brightly polished Dorothy thought they were just as good as silver . 
What pleased Button Bright most about the dinner was the tin orchestra that played sweet music while the company ate . 
Altogether it was a merry meal , although Polychrome ate little and the host nothing at all . 
I'm sorry the Rainbow's Daughter missed her mist cakes , said the Tin Woodman to Dorothy but by a mistake Miss Polly's mist cakes were mislaid and not missed until now . 
I'll try to have some for her breakfast . 
They spent the evening telling stories , and the next morning left the splendid tin castle and set out upon the road to the Emerald City . 
The Tin Woodman went with them , of course , having by this time been so brightly polished that he sparkled like silver . 
His axe , which he always carried with him , had a steel blade that was tin plated and a handle covered with tin plate beautifully engraved and set with diamonds . 
The Winkies assembled before the castle gates and cheered their Emperor as he marched away , and it was easy to see that they all loved him dearly . 
The copper man and the tin man were good friends , and not so much alike as you might think . 
For one was alive and the other moved by means of machinery one was tall and angular and the other short and round . 
Perhaps it is better to be a machine that does its duty than a flesh and blood person who will not , for a dead truth is better than a live falsehood . 
About noon the travelers reached a large field of pumpkins a vegetable quite appropriate to the yellow country of the Winkies and some of the pumpkins which grew there were of remarkable size . 
Just before they entered upon this field they saw three little mounds that looked like graves , with a pretty headstone to each one of them . 
What is this ? asked Dorothy , in wonder . 
It's Jack Pumpkinhead's private graveyard , replied the Tin Woodman . 
But I thought nobody ever died in Oz , she said . 
Nor do they although if one is bad , he may be condemned and killed by the good citizens , he answered . 
Dorothy ran over to the little graves and read the words engraved upon the tombstones . 
The first one said Here Lies the Mortal Part of JACK PUMPKINHEAD Which Spoiled April th . 
She then went to the next stone , which read Here Lies the Mortal Part of JACK PUMPKINHEAD Which Spoiled October nd . 
On the third stone were carved these words Here Lies the Mortal Part of JACK PUMPKINHEAD Which Spoiled January th . 
Poor Jack ! sighed Dorothy . 
I'm sorry he had to die in three parts , for I hoped to see him again . 
So you shall , declared the Tin Woodman , since he is still alive . 
Come with me to his house , for Jack is now a farmer and lives in this very pumpkin field . 
They walked over to a monstrous big , hollow pumpkin which had a door and windows cut through the rind . 
There was a stovepipe running through the stem , and six steps had been built leading up to the front door . 
They walked up to this door and looked in . 
Seated on a bench was a man clothed in a spotted shirt , a red vest , and faded blue trousers , whose body was merely sticks of wood , jointed clumsily together . 
On his neck was set a round , yellow pumpkin , with a face carved on it such as a boy often carves on a jack lantern . 
This queer man was engaged in snapping slippery pumpkin seeds with his wooden fingers , trying to hit a target on the other side of the room with them . 
Button Bright was at first rather shy with the quaint Pumpkinhead , but Jack's face was so jolly and smiling being carved that way that the boy soon grew to like him . 
I thought a while ago that you were buried in three parts , said Dorothy , but now I see you're just the same as ever . 
Not quite the same , my dear , for my mouth is a little more one sided than it used to be but pretty nearly the same . 
I've a new head , and this is the fourth one I've owned since Ozma first made me and brought me to life by sprinkling me with the Magic Powder . 
What became of the other heads , Jack ? They spoiled and I buried them , for they were not even fit for pies . 
Some grow pretty big too big to be used for heads so I dug out this one and use it for a house . 
Isn't it damp ? asked Dorothy . 
There isn't much left but the shell , you see , and it will last a long time yet . 
I think you are brighter than you used to be , Jack , said the Tin Woodman . 
Your last head was a stupid one . 
The seeds in this one are better , was the reply . 
Are you going to Ozma's party ? asked Dorothy . 
Yes , said he , I wouldn't miss it for anything . 
Ozma's my parent , you know , because she built my body and carved my pumpkin head . 
I'll follow you to the Emerald City to morrow , where we shall meet again . 
I can't go to day , because I have to plant fresh pumpkin seeds and water the young vines . 
But give my love to Ozma , and tell her I'll be there in time for the jubilation . 
We will , she promised and then they all left him and resumed their journey . 
The Royal Chariot Arrives The neat yellow houses of the Winkies were now to be seen standing here and there along the roadway , giving the country a more cheerful and civilized look . 
They were farm houses , though , and set far apart for in the Land of Oz there were no towns or villages except the magnificent Emerald City in its center . 
Hedges of evergreen or of yellow roses bordered the broad highway and the farms showed the care of their industrious inhabitants . 
The nearer the travelers came to the great city the more prosperous the country became , and they crossed many bridges over the sparkling streams and rivulets that watered the lands . 
A Witch named Mombi got some of this powder from the crooked Sorcerer and took it home with her . 
Ozma lived with the Witch then , for it was before she became our Princess , while Mombi had transformed her into the shape of a boy . 
But Mombi was not scared , and she sprinkled the Pumpkinhead with her Magic Powder of Life , to see if the Powder would work . 
Next day they found a wooden Saw Horse standing by the roadside , and sprinkled it with the Powder . 
It came to life at once , and Jack Pumpkinhead rode the Saw Horse to the Emerald City . 
What became of the Saw Horse , afterward ? asked the shaggy man , much interested in this story . 
Oh , it's alive yet , and you will probably meet it presently in the Emerald City . 
It's too bad the Powder of Life was all used up , remarked the shaggy man it would be a handy thing to have around . 
I am not so sure of that , sir , answered the Tin Woodman . 
A while ago the crooked Sorcerer who invented the Magic Powder fell down a precipice and was killed . 
All his possessions went to a relative an old woman named Dyna , who lives in the Emerald City . 
She went to the mountains where the Sorcerer had lived and brought away everything she thought of value . 
Among them was a small bottle of the Powder of Life but of course Dyna didn't know it was a Magic Powder , at all . 
She kept the rug on the floor of her front parlor . 
I've seen rugs like that , said the shaggy man , nodding , but never one made from a blue bear . 
Why ? asked the shaggy man . 
Well , it stands up on its four feet and walks all around , and gets in the way and that spoils it for a rug . 
It can't speak , although it is alive for , while its head might say words , it has no breath in a solid body to push the words out of its mouth . 
It's a very slimpsy affair altogether , that bear rug , and the old woman is sorry it came to life . 
I should think Dyna would like that , said Dorothy . 
Therefore I believe it is a good thing that all the Magic Powder of Life is now used up , as it can not cause any more trouble . 
Perhaps you're right , said the shaggy man , thoughtfully . 
At noon they stopped at a farmhouse , where it delighted the farmer and his wife to be able to give them a good luncheon . 
They had not proceeded far after leaving this farm house before coming to a high bridge over a broad river . 
This river , the Tin Woodman informed them , was the boundary between the Country of the Winkies and the territory of the Emerald City . 
The shaggy man drew a deep breath of awe and amazement , for never had he dreamed that such a grand and beautiful place could exist even in the fairyland of Oz . 
Polly was so pleased that her violet eyes sparkled like amethysts , and she danced away from her companions across the bridge and into a group of feathery trees lining both the roadsides . 
Father ought to see these trees , she murmured they are almost as lovely as his own rainbows . 
One was a tawny lion , as tall as a horse , nearly the other a striped tiger almost the same size . 
Oh , I'm SO glad to see you again ! cried the little Kansas girl . 
And the Hungry Tiger , too ! How fine you're both looking . 
It's going to be a grand affair , I promise you . 
Is your Conscience still in good order ? asked Dorothy , anxiously . 
Yes it rules me like a tyrant , answered the Tiger , sorrowfully . 
I can imagine nothing more unpleasant than to own a Conscience , and he winked slyly at his friend the Lion . 
You're fooling me ! said Dorothy , with a laugh . 
I don't b'lieve you'd eat a baby if you lost your Conscience . 
Come here , Polly , she called , and be introduced to my friends . 
You have some queer friends , Dorothy , she said . 
The queerness doesn't matter so long as they're friends , was the answer . 
This is the Cowardly Lion , who isn't a coward at all , but just thinks he is . 
The Wizard gave him some courage once , and he has part of it left . 
The Lion bowed with great dignity to Polly . 
You are very lovely , my dear , said he . 
I hope we shall be friends when we are better acquainted . 
And this is the Hungry Tiger , continued Dorothy . 
Hush , Dorothy , whispered the Tiger you'll ruin my reputation if you are not more discreet . 
It isn't what we are , but what folks think we are , that counts in this world . 
And come to think of it Miss Polly would make a fine variegated breakfast , I'm sure . 
The Emerald City The others now came up , and the Tin Woodman greeted the Lion and the Tiger cordially . 
The little dog smelled of the Tiger's nose , and the Tiger politely shook paws with him so they were quite likely to become firm friends . 
Tik tok and Billina knew the beasts well , so merely bade them good day and asked after their healths and inquired about the Princess Ozma . 
Now it was seen that the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger were drawing behind them a splendid golden chariot , to which they were harnessed by golden cords . 
Why , it's Ozma's own royal chariot ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
What ! cried Polly , looking at Dorothy curiously . 
Do you belong to the nobility ? Just in Oz I do , said the child , 'cause Ozma made me a Princess , you know . 
But when I'm home in Kansas I'm only a country girl , and have to help with the churning and wipe the dishes while Aunt Em washes 'em . 
Do you have to help wash dishes on the rainbow , Polly ? No , dear , answered Polychrome , smiling . 
Well , I don't have to work any in Oz , either , said Dorothy . 
So get in , my dears , and be careful not to mar the gold or put your dusty feet on the embroidery . 
Button Bright was delighted to ride behind such a superb team , and he told Dorothy it made him feel like an actor in a circus . 
The Yellow Hen had perched upon the back of the chariot , where she could tell Dorothy more about her wonderful chickens as they rode . 
And so the grand chariot came finally to the high wall surrounding the City , and paused before the magnificent jewel studded gates . 
These were opened by a cheerful looking little man who wore green spectacles over his eyes . 
Dorothy introduced him to her friends as the Guardian of the Gates , and they noticed a big bunch of keys suspended on the golden chain that hung around his neck . 
The chariot passed through the outer gates into a fine arched chamber built in the thick wall , and through the inner gates into the streets of the Emerald City . 
The sidewalks were superb marble slabs polished as smooth as glass , and the curbs that separated the walks from the broad street were also set thick with clustered emeralds . 
There were many people on these walks men , women and children all dressed in handsome garments of silk or satin or velvet , with beautiful jewels . 
Better even than this all seemed happy and contented , for their faces were smiling and free from care , and music and laughter might be heard on every side . 
Don't they work at all ? asked the shaggy man . 
But no one works more than half his time , and the people of Oz enjoy their labors as much as they do their play . 
It's wonderful ! declared the shaggy man . 
I do hope Ozma will let me live here . 
The chariot , winding through many charming streets , paused before a building so vast and noble and elegant that even Button Bright guessed at once that it was the Royal Palace . 
The gates flew open as the chariot appeared before them , and the Cowardly Lion and Hungry Tiger trotted up a jeweled driveway to the front door of the palace and stopped short . 
Here we are ! said Dorothy , gaily , and helped Button Bright from the chariot . 
Polychrome leaped out lightly after them , and they were greeted by a crowd of gorgeously dressed servants who bowed low as the visitors mounted the marble steps . 
At their head was a pretty little maid with dark hair and eyes , dressed all in green embroidered with silver . 
Dorothy ran up to her with evident pleasure , and exclaimed O , Jellia Jamb ! I'm so glad to see you again . 
Where's Ozma ? In her room , your Highness , replied the little maid demurely , for this was Ozma's favorite attendant . 
She wishes you to come to her as soon as you have rested and changed your dress , Princess Dorothy . 
And you and your friends are to dine with her this evening . 
When is her birthday , Jellia ? asked the girl . 
Day after to morrow , your Highness . 
And where's the Scarecrow ? He's gone into the Munchkin country to get some fresh straw to stuff himself with , in honor of Ozma's celebration , replied the maid . 
He returns to the Emerald City to morrow , he said . 
But Toto stayed close beside Dorothy . 
Come in , please , said Jellia Jamb it shall be our pleasant duty to escort all of you to the rooms prepared for your use . 
Dorothy assured him that all her friends were welcome at Ozma's palace , so he carefully dusted his shaggy shoes with his shaggy handkerchief and entered the grand hall after the others . 
The Shaggy Man's Welcome The shaggy man stood in the great hall , his shaggy hat in his hands , wondering what would become of him . 
He had never been a guest in a fine palace before perhaps he had never been a guest anywhere . 
The shaggy man drew a long breath and took courage . 
Very well , he answered . 
Through the big hall they went , up the grand staircase carpeted thick with velvet , and so along a wide corridor to a carved doorway . 
Whatever you see is for you to use and enjoy , as if your own . 
The Princess dines at seven , and I shall be here in time to lead you to the drawing room , where you will be privileged to meet the lovely Ruler of Oz . 
Is there any command , in the meantime , with which you desire to honor me ? No , said the shaggy man but I'm much obliged . 
He entered the room and shut the door , and for a time stood in bewilderment , admiring the grandeur before him . 
The furniture was upholstered in cloth of gold , with the royal crown embroidered upon it in scarlet . 
Books and ornaments were scattered about in profusion , and the shaggy man thought he had never seen so many pretty things in one place before . 
The bedstead was of gold and set with many brilliant diamonds , and the coverlet had designs of pearls and rubies sewed upon it . 
Around the edge of the pool were set rows of fine emeralds as large as door knobs , while the water of the bath was clear as crystal . 
For a time the shaggy man gazed upon all this luxury with silent amazement . 
Then he decided , being wise in his way , to take advantage of his good fortune . 
He removed his shaggy boots and his shaggy clothing , and bathed in the pool with rare enjoyment . 
After he had dried himself with the soft towels he went into the dressing room and took fresh linen from the drawers and put it on , finding that everything fitted him exactly . 
He examined the contents of the closets and selected an elegant suit of clothing . 
His coat was of rose colored velvet , trimmed with shags and bobtails , with buttons of blood red rubies and golden shags around the edges . 
His vest was a shaggy satin of a delicate cream color , and his knee breeches of rose velvet trimmed like the coat . 
While he waited he returned to the beautiful sitting room and ate several of the red cheeked apples to pass away the time . 
Everything about Ozma attracted one , and she inspired love and the sweetest affection rather than awe or ordinary admiration . 
Why didn't you send me word you were going to have a birthday party ? asked the little Kansas girl , when the first greetings were over . 
Didn't I ? asked Ozma , her pretty eyes dancing with merriment . 
Did you ? replied Dorothy , trying to think . 
Who do you imagine , dear , mixed up those roads , so as to start you wandering in the direction of Oz ? inquired the Princess . 
Oh ! I never 'spected YOU of that , cried Dorothy . 
Once was when the Scoodlers caught you , and again when you reached the Deadly Desert . 
But the shaggy man was able to help you out both times , so I did not interfere . 
Do you know who Button Bright is ? asked Dorothy . 
No I never saw him until you found him in the road , and then only in my Magic Picture . 
And did you send Polly to us ? No , dear the Rainbow's Daughter slid from her father's pretty arch just in time to meet you . 
Well , said Dorothy , I've promised King Dox of Foxville and King Kik a bray of Dunkiton that I'd ask you to invite them to your party . 
I have already done that , returned Ozma , because I thought it would please you to favor them . 
Did you 'vite the Musicker ? asked Button Bright . 
No because he would be too noisy , and might interfere with the comfort of others . 
When music is not very good , and is indulged in all the time , it is better that the performer should be alone , said the Princess . 
I like the Musicker's music , declared the boy , gravely . 
But I don't , said Dorothy . 
Well , there will be plenty of music at my celebration , promised Ozma so I've an idea Button Bright won't miss the Musicker at all . 
Just then Polychrome danced in , and Ozma rose to greet the Rainbow's Daughter in her sweetest and most cordial manner . 
The Wizard of Oz was announced , and a dried up , little , old man , clothed all in black , entered the drawing room . 
After greeting Dorothy with much affection , he stood modestly behind Ozma's throne and listened to the lively prattle of the young people . 
He's still shaggy , all right , remarked Button Bright and Ozma nodded brightly because she had meant the shaggy man to remain shaggy when she provided his new clothes for him . 
You are welcome to Oz , said the girl Ruler , in gracious accents . 
Oh , Shaggy Man ! cried Dorothy . 
How dreadful ! And you told me the Eskimo gave you the Love Magnet . 
He shuffled first on one foot and then on the other , much embarrassed . 
I told you a falsehood , Dorothy , he said but now , having bathed in the Truth Pond , I must tell nothing but the truth . 
Why did you steal it ? asked Ozma , gently . 
Because no one loved me , or cared for me , said the shaggy man , and I wanted to be loved a great deal . 
It was owned by a girl in Butterfield who was loved too much , so that the young men quarreled over her , which made her unhappy . 
After I had stolen the Magnet from her , only one young man continued to love the girl , and she married him and regained her happiness . 
Are you sorry you stole it ? asked the Princess . 
Now that I'm here , I hope to remain , and to become one of your Majesty's most faithful subjects . 
But in Oz we are loved for ourselves alone , and for our kindness to one another , and for our good deeds , she said . 
I'll give up the Love Magnet , said the shaggy man , eagerly Dorothy shall have it . 
But every one loves Dorothy already , declared the Wizard . 
Then Button Bright shall have it . 
Don't want it , said the boy , promptly . 
Then I'll give it to the Wizard , for I'm sure the lovely Princess Ozma does not need it . 
That is a good idea , said the shaggy man I agree to it most willingly . 
Those assembled now went in to dinner , which you can imagine was a grand affair and afterward Ozma asked the Wizard to give them an exhibition of his magic . 
The Wizard took eight tiny white piglets from an inside pocket and set them on the table . 
It was late when the entertainment ended , and they separated to go to their rooms . 
To morrow , said Ozma , my invited guests will arrive , and you will find among them some interesting and curious people , I promise you . 
I hope the Scarecrow won't be late , said Dorothy , anxiously . 
Oh , he is sure to return to morrow , answered Ozma . 
He wanted new straw to stuff himself with , so he went to the Munchkin Country , where straw is plentiful . 
With this the Princess bade her guests good night and went to her own room . 
They came gladly , and Toto also had breakfast with them , so that the little party that had traveled together to Oz was once more reunited . 
This was at the front of the palace and overlooked the streets of the City , being higher than the wall that shut in the palace grounds . 
As he reached the palace the Scarecrow looked up and saw Dorothy , and at once waved his peaked hat at her in greeting . 
He rode up to the front door and dismounted , and the band stopped playing and went away and the crowds of people returned to their dwellings . 
Why , your face has been newly painted ! exclaimed Dorothy , when the first greetings were over . 
I had it touched up a bit by the Munchkin farmer who first made me , answered the Scarecrow , pleasantly . 
My complexion had become a bit grey and faded , you know , and the paint had peeled off one end of my mouth , so I couldn't talk quite straight . 
Now I feel like myself again , and I may say without immodesty that my body is stuffed with the loveliest oat straw in all Oz . 
He pushed against his chest . 
Hear me crunkle ? he asked . 
Yes , said Dorothy you sound fine . 
Button Bright was wonderfully attracted by the strawman , and so was Polly . 
The shaggy man treated him with great respect , because he was so queerly made . 
Jellia Jamb now came to say that Ozma wanted Princess Dorothy to receive the invited guests in the Throne Room , as they arrived . 
The Ruler was herself busy ordering the preparations for the morrow's festivities , so she wished her friend to act in her place . 
The Scarecrow stood at the left of the throne and the Tin Woodman at the right , while the Wonderful Wizard and the shaggy man stood behind . 
The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger came in , with bright new bows of ribbon on their collars and tails . 
After greeting Dorothy affectionately the huge beasts lay down at the foot of the throne . 
While they waited , the Scarecrow , who was near the little boy , asked Why are you called Button Bright ? Don't know , was the answer . 
Oh yes , you do , dear , said Dorothy . 
Tell the Scarecrow how you got your name . 
Papa always said I was bright as a button , so mama always called me Button Bright , announced the boy . 
Where is your mama ? asked the Scarecrow . 
Don't know , said Button Bright . 
Where is your home ? asked the Scarecrow . 
Don't know , said Button Bright . 
Don't you want to find your mama again ? asked the Scarecrow . 
Don't know , said Button Bright , calmly . 
Your papa may have been right , he observed but there are many kinds of buttons , you see . 
There are silver and gold buttons , which are highly polished and glitter brightly . 
There are pearl and rubber buttons , and other kinds , with surfaces more or less bright . 
But there is still another sort of button which is covered with dull cloth , and that must be the sort your papa meant when he said you were bright as a button . 
Don't you think so ? Don't know , said Button Bright . 
Jack Pumpkinhead arrived , wearing a pair of new , white kid gloves and he brought a birthday present for Ozma consisting of a necklace of pumpkin seeds . 
In each seed was set a sparkling carolite , which is considered the rarest and most beautiful gem that exists . 
The necklace was in a plush case and Jellia Jamb put it on a table with the Princess Ozma's other presents . 
Next came a tall , beautiful woman clothed in a splendid trailing gown , trimmed with exquisite lace as fine as cobweb . 
This was the important Sorceress known as Glinda the Good , who had been of great assistance to both Ozma and Dorothy . 
There was no humbug about her magic , you may be sure , and Glinda was as kind as she was powerful . 
The next arrival was Mr. H. M. Woggle Bug , T. E. the H. M. meaning Highly Magnified and the T. E. meaning Thoroughly Educated . 
The Woggle Bug was head professor at the Royal College of Oz , and he had composed a fine Ode in honor of Ozma's birthday . 
This he wanted to read to them but the Scarecrow wouldn't let him . 
Billina wore a pearl necklace , and around the neck of each chicken was a tiny gold chain holding a locket with the letter D engraved upon the outside . 
Open the lockets , Dorothy , said Billina . 
The girl obeyed and found a picture of herself in each locket . 
They were named after you , my dear , continued the Yellow Hen , so I wanted all my chickens to wear your picture . 
Cluck cluck ! come here , Dorothy this minute ! she cried , for the chickens were scattered and wandering all around the big room . 
They obeyed the call at once , and came running as fast as they could , fluttering their fluffy wings in a laughable way . 
It was lucky that Billina gathered the little ones under her soft breast just then , for Tik tok came in and tramped up to the throne on his flat copper feet . 
I am all wound up and work ing fine ly , said the clock work man to Dorothy . 
I can hear him tick , declared Button Bright . 
You are quite the polished gentleman , said the Tin Woodman . 
Stand up here beside the shaggy man , Tik tok , and help receive the company . 
He wore a silk hat and carried a candy cane prettily striped with red and yellow . 
His shirt front and cuffs were white frosting , and the buttons on his coat were licorice drops . 
Behind the gingerbread man came a child with flaxen hair and merry blue eyes , dressed in white pajamas , with sandals on the soles of its pretty bare feet . 
The child looked around smiling and thrust its hands into the pockets of the pajamas . 
Close after it came a big rubber bear , walking erect on its hind feet . 
The bear had twinkling black eyes , and its body looked as if it had been pumped full of air . 
Following these curious visitors were two tall , thin men and two short , fat men , all four dressed in gorgeous uniforms . 
Also the Head Boolywag of his Majesty , known as Chick the Cherub , and their faithful friend Para Bruin , the rubber bear . 
These great personages bowed low as their names were called , and Dorothy hastened to introduce them to the assembled company . 
They were the first foreign arrivals , and the friends of Princess Ozma were polite to them and tried to make them feel that they were welcome . 
Is it a boy or a girl ? whispered Dorothy . 
Don't know , said Button Bright . 
Goodness me ! what a queer lot of people you are , exclaimed the rubber bear , looking at the assembled company . 
So're you , said Button Bright , gravely . 
Is King Dough good to eat ? He's too good to eat , laughed Chick the Cherub . 
I hope none of you are fond of gingerbread , said the King , rather anxiously . 
We should never think of eating our visitors , if we were , declared the Scarecrow so please do not worry , for you will be perfectly safe while you remain in Oz . 
Why do they call you Chick ? the Yellow Hen asked the child . 
Because I'm an Incubator Baby , and never had any parents , replied the Head Booleywag . 
My chicks have a parent , and I'm it , said Billina . 
I'm glad of that , answered the Cherub , because they'll have more fun worrying you than if they were brought up in an Incubator . 
The Incubator never worries , you know . 
King John Dough had brought for Ozma's birthday present a lovely gingerbread crown , with rows of small pearls around it and a fine big pearl in each of its five points . 
Important Arrivals First entered a band of Ryls from the Happy Valley , all merry little sprites like fairy elves . 
A dozen crooked Knooks followed from the great Forest of Burzee . 
They had long whiskers and pointed caps and curling toes , yet were no taller than Button Bright's shoulder . 
The most Mighty and Loyal Friend of Children , His Supreme Highness Santa Claus ! said the Chamberlain , in an awed voice . 
Well , well , well ! Glad to see you glad to meet you all ! cried Santa Claus , briskly , as he trotted up the long room . 
He was round as an apple , with a fresh rosy face , laughing eyes , and a bushy beard as white as snow . 
A red cloak trimmed with beautiful ermine hung from his shoulders and upon his back was a basket filled with pretty presents for the Princess Ozma . 
Hello , Dorothy still having adventures ? he asked in his jolly way , as he took the girl's hand in both his own . 
How did you know my name , Santa ? she replied , feeling more shy in the presence of this immortal saint than she ever had before in her young life . 
Why , don't I see you every Christmas Eve , when you're asleep ? he rejoined , pinching her blushing cheek . 
Oh , do you ? And here's Button Bright , I declare ! cried Santa Claus , holding up the boy to kiss him . 
What a long way from home you are dear me ! Do you know Button Bright , too ? questioned Dorothy , eagerly . 
I've visited his home several Christmas Eves . 
And do you know his father ? asked the girl . 
Who else do you suppose brings him his Christmas neckties and stockings ? with a sly wink at the Wizard . 
Then where does he live ? We're just crazy to know , 'cause Button Bright's lost , she said . 
Santa laughed and laid his finger aside of his nose as if thinking what to reply . 
He leaned over and whispered something in the Wizard's ear , at which the Wizard smiled and nodded as if he understood . 
Now Santa Claus spied Polychrome , and trotted over to where she stood . 
Seems to me the Rainbow's Daughter is farther from home than any of you , he observed , looking at the pretty maiden admiringly . 
I'll have to tell your father where you are , Polly , and send him to get you . 
Please do , dear Santa Claus , implored the little maid , beseechingly . 
But just now we must all have a jolly good time at Ozma's party , said the old gentleman , turning to put his presents on the table with the others already there . 
It isn't often I find time to leave my castle , as you know but Ozma invited me and I just couldn't help coming to celebrate the happy occasion . 
I'm so glad ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
These are my Ryls , pointing to the little sprites squatting around him . 
Also I brought these crooked Knooks , whom I love . 
I've read of the Ryls and Knooks , said Dorothy , looking upon these little workers with interest . 
Where are your reindeer ? asked Polychrome . 
I left them at home , for it is too warm for them in this sunny country , he answered . 
They're used to winter weather when they travel . 
Presently the band played again , and the High Chamberlain announced Her Gracious Majesty , the Queen of Merryland . 
They looked earnestly to discover whom this queen might be , and saw advancing up the room an exquisite wax doll dressed in dainty fluffs and ruffles and spangled gown . 
She was almost as big as Button Bright , and her cheeks and mouth and eyebrow were prettily painted in delicate colors . 
Her blue eyes stared a bit , being of glass , yet the expression upon her Majesty's face was quite pleasant and decidedly winning . 
With the Queen of Merryland were four wooden soldiers , two stalking ahead of her with much dignity and two following behind , like a royal bodyguard . 
The soldiers were painted in bright colors and carried wooden guns , and after them came a fat little man who attracted attention at once , although he seemed modest and retiring . 
The wax doll Queen spoke prettily to Dorothy and the others , and sent her loving greetings to Ozma before she retired to the rooms prepared for her . 
She had brought a birthday present wrapped in tissue paper and tied with pink and blue ribbons , and one of the wooden soldiers placed it on the table with the other gifts . 
Button Bright was glad the Candy Man stayed in the Throne Room , because the boy thought this guest smelled deliciously of wintergreen and maple sugar . 
The Braided Man now entered the room , having been fortunate enough to receive an invitation to the Princess Ozma's party . 
The band then played a welcome to another set of guests , and into the Throne Room swept the handsome and stately Queen of Ev . 
Beside her was young King Evardo , and following them came the entire royal family of five Princesses and four Princes of Ev . 
Dorothy had been present on this adventure , so she greeted the royal family cordially and all the visitors were delighted to meet the little Kansas girl again . 
The next comer proved to be King Renard of Foxville or King Dox , as he preferred to be called . 
He was magnificently dressed in a new feather costume and wore white kid mittens over his paws and a flower in his button hole and had his hair parted in the middle . 
King Dox thanked Dorothy fervently for getting him the invitation to come to Oz , which he all his life longed to visit . 
Her Royal Highness , the Princess Fluff . 
They brought many splendid gifts so the table was now fairly loaded down with presents . 
My ! what a big party Ozma is going to have , exclaimed Dorothy . 
I guess the palace will be chock full , Button Bright don't you think so ? Don't know , said the boy . 
But we must go to our rooms , pretty soon , to dress for the banquet , continued the girl . 
I don't have to dress , said the Candy Man from Merryland . 
All I need do is to dust myself with fresh sugar . 
Tik tok always wears the same suits of clothes , said the Tin Woodman and so does our friend the Scarecrow . 
My feathers are good enough for any occasion , cried Billina , from her corner . 
Then I shall leave you four to welcome any new guests that come , said Dorothy for Button Bright and I must look our very best at Ozma's banquet . 
Who is still to come ? asked the Scarecrow . 
Well , there's King Kik a bray of Dunkiton , and Johnny Dooit , and the Good Witch of the North . 
But Johnny Dooit may not get here until late , he's so very busy . 
We will receive them and give them a proper welcome , promised the Scarecrow . 
So run along , little Dorothy , and get yourself dressed . 
The Grand Banquet I wish I could tell you how fine the company was that assembled that evening at Ozma's royal banquet . 
At the upper end of the banquet room was a separate table provided for the animals . 
Toto sat at one end of this table with a bib tied around his neck and a silver platter to eat from . 
At the other end was placed a small stand , with a low rail around the edge of it , for Billina and her chicks . 
The rail kept the ten little Dorothys from falling off the stand , while the Yellow Hen could easily reach over and take her food from her tray upon the table . 
Here were also seated the officers of the royal palace and of Ozma's army . 
When all members of ethe company were in their places an orchestra of five hundred pieces , in a balcony overlooking the banquet room , began to play sweet and delightful music . 
Then a door draped with royal green opened , and in came the fair and girlish Princess Ozma , who now greeted her guests in person for the first time . 
Each guest had been served with a crystal goblet filled with lacasa , which is a sort of nectar famous in Oz and nicer to drink than soda water or lemonade . 
Santa now made a pretty speech in verse , congratulating Ozma on having a birthday , and asking every one present to drink to the health and happiness of their dearly beloved hostess . 
All seated themselves at the tables and the servants of the Princess began serving the feast . 
I am quite sure that only in Fairyland could such a delicious repast be prepared . 
The dishes were of precious metals set with brilliant jewels and the good things to eat which were placed upon them were countless in number and of exquisite flavor . 
The Woggle Bug read his Ode to Ozma , which was written in very good rhythm and was well received by the company . 
When it was ended , the people clapped their hands and the animals clapped their paws , while Billina cackled and the Donkey King brayed approval . 
There was laughter and merriment on every side , and everybody was having a royal good time . 
The Birthday Celebration A clear , perfect day , with a gentle breeze and a sunny sky , greeted Princess Ozma as she wakened next morning , the anniversary of her birth . 
As they walked they scattered these flowers upon the marble pavements , so that the way was carpeted thick with roses for the procession to walk upon . 
Next marched the Emerald City Cornet Band , clothed in green and gold uniforms and playing the Ozma Two Step . 
The Royal Army of Oz followed , consisting of twenty seven officers , from the Captain General down to the Lieutenants . 
There were no privates in Ozma's Army because soldiers were not needed to fight battles , but only to look important , and an officer always looks more imposing than a private . 
She had decided she would not ride in her chariot that day , as she preferred to walk in the procession with her favored subjects and her guests . 
But whenever Ozma paused in her walk the Bear Rug would flop down flat upon the ground for the princess to stand upon until she resumed her progress . 
First was Santa Claus , who , because he was fat and not used to walking , rode the wonderful Saw Horse . 
The merry old gentleman had a basket of small toys with him , and he tossed the toys one by one to the children as he passed by . 
His Ryls and Knooks marched close behind him . 
These wonderful personages were not more heartily cheered by the people than were those who followed after them in the procession . 
Dorothy was a general favorite , and she walked arm in arm with the Scarecrow , who was beloved by all . 
Then came Polychrome and Button Bright , and the people loved the Rainbow's pretty Daughter and the beautiful blue eyed boy as soon as they saw them . 
The shaggy man in his shaggy new suit attracted much attention because he was such a novelty . 
With regular steps tramped the machine man Tik tok , and there was more cheering when the Wizard of Oz followed in the procession . 
The Woggle Bug and Jack Pumpkinhead were next , and behind them Glinda the Sorceress and the Good Witch of the North . 
Finally came Billina , with her brood of chickens to whom she clucked anxiously to keep them together and to hasten them along so they would not delay the procession . 
Another band followed , this time the Tin Band of the Emperor of the Winkies , playing a beautiful march called , There's No Plate Like Tin . 
Here had been erected a splendid pavilion , with a grandstand big enough to seat all the royal party and those who had taken part in the procession . 
Over the pavilion , which was of green silk and cloth of gold , countless banners waved in the breeze . 
Just in front of this , and connected with it by a runway had been built a broad platform , so that all the spectators could see plainly the entertainment provided for them . 
The Wizard now became Master of Ceremonies , as Ozma had placed the conduct of the performance in his hands . 
He tossed a dozen or so of them high in the air and caught them one by one as they came down , without missing any . 
Then he introduced the Scarecrow , who did a sword swallowing act that aroused much interest . 
He repeated this bouncing act several times , to the great delight of all the children present . 
After he had finished , and bowed , and returned to his seat , Glinda waved her wand and the tree disappeared but its fruit still remained to be eaten . 
The Wizard then announced the last act of all , which was considered really wonderful . 
The Wizard had invented another thing . 
That is really fine ! declared Santa Claus , who loved toys and pretty things . 
I think , Mr. Wizard , I shall have you blow a bubble around me then I can float away home and see the country spread out beneath me as I travel . 
There isn't a spot on earth that I haven't visited , but I usually go in the night time , riding behind my swift reindeer . 
Here is a good chance to observe the country by daylight , while I am riding slowly and at my ease . 
Do you think you will be able to guide the bubble ? asked the Wizard . 
Oh yes I know enough magic to do that , replied Santa Claus . 
You blow the bubble , with me inside of it , and I'll be sure to get home in safety . 
Please send me home in a bubble , too ! begged the Queen of Merryland . 
Very well , madam you shall try the journey first , politely answered old Santa . 
The pretty wax doll bade good bye to the Princess Ozma and the others and stood on the platform while the Wizard blew a big soap bubble around her . 
The bubble took a southerly direction , quickly floating out of sight . 
That's a very nice way to travel , said Princess Fluff . 
I'd like to go home in a bubble , too . 
Finally , Button Bright said I want to go home , too . 
Why , so you shall ! cried Santa for I'm sure your father and mother will be glad to see you again . 
Mr. Wizard , please blow a big , fine bubble for Button Bright to ride in , and I'll agree to send him home to his family as safe as safe can be . 
She kissed the boy , and Ozma kissed him , too , and all the others waved their hands and said good bye and wished him a pleasant journey . 
Are you glad to leave us , dear ? asked Dorothy , a little wistfully . 
Don't know , said Button Bright . 
He sat down cross legged on the platform , with his sailor hat tipped back on his head , and the Wizard blew a beautiful bubble all around him . 
Will you ride in a bubble , or shall I send you and Toto home by means of the Magic Belt ? the Princess asked Dorothy . 
Guess I'll use the Belt , replied the little girl . 
I'm sort of 'fraid of those bubbles . 
Bow wow ! said Toto , approvingly . 
He loved to bark at the bubbles as they sailed away , but he didn't care to ride in one . 
Santa Claus decided to go next . 
He thanked Ozma for her hospitality and wished her many happy returns of the day . 
Then the Wizard blew a bubble around his chubby little body and smaller bubbles around each of his Ryls and Knooks . 
The band played bravely while every one watched the bubble until it was completely out of sight . 
How 'bout you , Polly ? Dorothy asked her friend . 
Are you 'fraid of bubbles , too ? No , answered Polychrome , smiling but Santa Claus promised to speak to my father as he passed through the sky . 
So perhaps I shall get home an easier way . 
Suddenly , the end of the rainbow lifted and its colors slowly faded like mist before a breeze . 
Dorothy sighed deeply and turned to Ozma . 
I'm sorry to lose Polly , she said but I guess she's better off with her father 'cause even the Land of Oz couldn't be like home to a cloud fairy . 
The entertainment being now ended , all left the pavilion and formed their gay procession back to the Emerald City again . 
Of Dorothy's recent traveling companions only Toto and the shaggy man remained , and Ozma had decided to allow the latter to live in Oz for a time , at least . 
If he proved honest and true she promised to let him live there always , and the shaggy man was anxious to earn this reward . 
They had a nice quiet dinner together and passed a pleasant evening with the Scarecrow , the Tin Woodman , Tik tok , and the Yellow Hen for company . 
When Dorothy bade them good night , she kissed them all good bye at the same time . 
Presently she was sound asleep . 
