To Be Read Be Dusk by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk TO BE READ AT DUSK One , two , three , four , five . 
There were five of them . 
Five couriers , sitting on a bench outside the convent on the summit of the Great St . 
This is not my simile . 
It was made for the occasion by the stoutest courier , who was a German . 
The wine upon the mountain top soaked in as we looked the mountain became white the sky , a very dark blue the wind rose and the air turned piercing cold . 
The five couriers buttoned their rough coats . 
There being no safer man to imitate in all such proceedings than a courier , I buttoned mine . 
The mountain in the sunset had stopped the five couriers in a conversation . 
It is a sublime sight , likely to stop conversation . 
The mountain being now out of the sunset , they resumed . 
'Of what then ? asked the Swiss . 
'If I knew of what then , said the German , 'I should probably know a great deal more . 
It was a good answer , I thought , and it made me curious . 
'Uncommon ! said the German . 
'It's as common as cherries in the Black Forest . 
It's as common as maccaroni at Naples . 
'Well , I think I know a name for that . 
'Miracle ? said the Neapolitan , with the same sly face . 
The German merely smoked and laughed and they all smoked and laughed . 
'Bah ! said the German , presently . 
'I speak of things that really do happen . 
When I want to see the conjurer , I pay to see a professed one , and have my money's worth . 
Very strange things do happen without ghosts . 
Ghosts ! Giovanni Baptista , tell your story of the English bride . 
There's no ghost in that , but something full as strange . 
Will any man tell me what ? As there was a silence among them , I glanced around . 
He whom I took to be Baptista was lighting a fresh cigar . 
He presently went on to speak . 
He was a Genoese , as I judged . 
'The story of the English bride ? said he . 
'Basta ! one ought not to call so slight a thing a story . 
Well , it's all one . 
Observe me well , gentlemen , it's true . 
That which glitters is not always gold but what I am going to tell , is true . 
He repeated this more than once . 
He approved of them likewise of me . 
He was pleased to make inquiry . 
The testimony that he received was favourable . 
He engaged me by the six months , and my entertainment was generous . 
He was young , handsome , very happy . 
He was enamoured of a fair young English lady , with a sufficient fortune , and they were going to be married . 
It was the wedding trip , in short , that we were going to take . 
he had hired an old place on the Riviera , at an easy distance from my city , Genoa , on the road to Nice . 
Did I know that place ? Yes I told him I knew it well . 
It was an old palace with great gardens . 
It was a little bare , and it was a little dark and gloomy , being close surrounded by trees but it was spacious , ancient , grand , and on the seashore . 
He said it had been so described to him exactly , and he was well pleased that I knew it . 
For its being a little bare of furniture , all such places were . 
For its being a little gloomy , he had hired it principally for the gardens , and he and my mistress would pass the summer weather in their shade . 
'So all goes well , Baptista ? said he . 
'Indubitably , signore very well . 
We had a travelling chariot for our journey , newly built for us , and in all respects complete . 
All we had was complete we wanted for nothing . 
I observed my mistress sometimes brooding in a manner very strange in a frightened manner in an unhappy manner with a cloudy , uncertain alarm upon her . 
I think that I began to notice this when I was walking up hills by the carriage side , and master had gone on in front . 
Now and then , he laughed in a merry way , as if he were bantering her out of something . 
By and by , she laughed , and then all went well again . 
But , one day she told me the secret . 
'If you must know , said Carolina , 'I find , from what I have overheard , that mistress is haunted . 
'How haunted ? 'By a dream . 
'What dream ? 'By a dream of a face . 
For three nights before her marriage , she saw a face in a dream always the same face , and only One . 
'A terrible face ? 'No . 
The face of a dark , remarkable looking man , in black , with black hair and a grey moustache a handsome man except for a reserved and secret air . 
Not a face she ever saw , or at all like a face she ever saw . 
Doing nothing in the dream but looking at her fixedly , out of darkness . 
'Does the dream come back ? 'Never . 
The recollection of it is all her trouble . 
'And why does it trouble her ? Carolina shook her head . 
'That's master's question , said la bella . 
She wonders why , herself . 
she did not know how she could ever bear it . 
of our coming to the old palazzo , lest some such ill starred picture should happen to be there . 
I knew there were many there and , as we got nearer and nearer to the place , I wished the whole gallery in the crater of Vesuvius . 
To mend the matter , it was a stormy dismal evening when we , at last , approached that part of the Riviera . 
It thundered and the thunder of my city and its environs , rolling among the high hills , is very loud . 
Our palazzo was one of the true kind . 
It had been shut up close for months . 
Months ? years ! it had an earthy smell , like a tomb . 
There was , in every room , an aged smell , grown faint with confinement . 
It pined in all the cupboards and drawers . 
In the little rooms of communication between great rooms , it was stifling . 
If you turned a picture to come back to the pictures there it still was , clinging to the wall behind the frame , like a sort of bat . 
The lattice blinds were close shut , all over the house . 
Master , mistress , la bella Carolina , and I , went all through the palazzo . 
When I had let the evening light into a room , master , mistress , and la bella Carolina , entered . 
Then , we looked round at all the pictures , and I went forward again into another room . 
Mistress secretly had great fear of meeting with the likeness of that face we all had but there was no such thing . 
Dark , handsome man in black , reserved and secret , with black hair and grey moustache , looking fixedly at mistress out of darkness ? no . 
At last we got through all the rooms and all the pictures , and came out into the gardens . 
They were pretty well kept , being rented by a gardener , and were large and shady . 
In one place there was a rustic theatre , open to the sky the stage a green slope the coulisses , three entrances upon a side , sweet smelling leafy screens . 
Mistress moved her bright eyes , even there , as if she looked to see the face come in upon the scene but all was well . 
'Now , Clara , master said , in a low voice , 'you see that it is nothing ? You are happy . 
He would laugh and say to me , mounting his horse for his morning ride before the heat 'All goes well , Baptista ! 'Yes , signore , thank God , very well . 
The pretty little one was charmed with all she saw . 
She learnt Italian heavens ! miraculously ! Was mistress quite forgetful of that dream ? I asked Carolina sometimes . 
Nearly , said la bella almost . 
One day master received a letter , and called me . 
'Baptista ! 'Signore ! 'A gentleman who is presented to me will dine here to day . 
He is called the Signor Dellombra . 
Let me dine like a prince . 
It was an odd name . 
I did not know that name . 
But , there had been many noblemen and gentlemen pursued by Austria on political suspicions , lately , and some names had changed . 
Altro ! Dellombra was as good a name to me as another . 
, I showed him into the reception room , the great sala of the old palazzo . 
Master received him with cordiality , and presented him to mistress . 
As she rose , her face changed , she gave a cry , and fell upon the marble floor . 
Master raised mistress in his arms , and carried her to her own room , where I sent la bella Carolina straight . 
La bella told me afterwards that mistress was nearly terrified to death , and that she wandered in her mind about her dream , all night . 
Master was vexed and anxious almost angry , and yet full of solicitude . 
The Signor Dellombra was a courtly gentleman , and spoke with great respect and sympathy of mistress's being so ill . 
, and he knew that it was often hurtful . 
He hoped the beautiful lady would recover soon . 
He begged permission to retire , and to renew his visit when he should have the happiness of hearing that she was better . 
Master would not allow of this , and they dined alone . 
Next day he called at the gate , on horse back , to inquire for mistress . 
He did so two or three times in that week . 
What I observed myself , and what la bella Carolina told me , united to explain to me that master had now set his mind on curing mistress of her fanciful terror . 
He was all kindness , but he was sensible and firm . 
He reasoned with her , that to encourage such fancies was to invite melancholy , if not madness . 
That it rested with herself to be herself . 
That if she once resisted her strange weakness , so successfully as to receive the Signor Dellombra as an English lady would receive any other guest , it was for ever conquered . 
, and the evening passed serenely . 
Master was so delighted with this change , and so anxious to confirm it , that the Signor Dellombra became a constant guest . 
He was accomplished in pictures , books , and music and his society , in any grim palazzo , would have been welcome . 
I used to notice , many times , that mistress was not quite recovered . 
But , truly , I had not forgotten la bella Carolina's words describing the face in the dream . 
After his second visit I heard master say 'Now , see , my dear Clara , it's over ! Dellombra has come and gone , and your apprehension is broken like glass . 
'Will he will he ever come again ? asked mistress . 
'No , dear but he terrifies me are you sure that he need come again ? 'The surer for the question , Clara ! replied master , cheerfully . 
But , he was very hopeful of her complete recovery now , and grew more and more so every day . 
'All goes well , Baptista ? he would say to me again . 
'Yes , signore , thank God very well . 
, we were all at Rome for the Carnival . 
I had been out , all day , with a Sicilian , a friend of mine , and a courier , who was there with an English family . 
As I returned at night to our hotel , I met the little Carolina , who never stirred from home alone , running distractedly along the Corso . 
, and would lie in bed until the evening then get up refreshed . 
Master came up in manner , face , or voice , no more the master that I knew , than I was he . 
, in a carriage , furiously through the darkness , across the desolate Campagna . 
When it was day , and we stopped at a miserable post house , all the horses had been hired twelve hours ago , and sent away in different directions . 
Mark me ! by the Signor Dellombra , who had passed there in a carriage , with a frightened English lady crouching in one corner . 
that she was ever traced beyond that spot . 
All I know is , that she vanished into infamous oblivion , with the dreaded face beside her that she had seen in her dream . 
'What do you call THAT ? said the German courier , triumphantly . 
with an English gentleman , elderly and a bachelor , to travel through my country , my Fatherland . 
He was a merchant who traded with my country and knew the language , but who had never been there since he was a boy as I judge , some sixty years before . 
His name was James , and he had a twin brother John , also a bachelor . 
Between these brothers there was a great affection . 
They were in business together , at Goodman's Fields , but they did not live together . 
Mr. James dwelt in Poland Street , turning out of Oxford Street , London Mr. John resided by Epping Forest . 
Mr. James and I were to start for Germany in about a week . 
The exact day depended on business . 
, to pass that week with Mr. James . 
But , he said to his brother on the second day , 'I don't feel very well , James . 
There's not much the matter with me but I think I am a little gouty . 
I'll go home and put myself under the care of my old housekeeper , who understands my ways . 
If I get quite better , I'll come back and see you before you go . 
If I don't feel well enough to resume my visit where I leave it off , why YOU will come and see me before you go . 
Mr. James , of course , said he would , and they shook hands both hands , as they always did and Mr. John ordered out his old fashioned chariot and rumbled home . 
He sat upon the side of my bed , and looking at me , said 'Wilhelm , I have reason to think I have got some strange illness upon me . 
I then perceived that there was a very unusual expression in his face . 
'Wilhelm , said he , 'I am not afraid or ashamed to tell you what I might be afraid or ashamed to tell another man . 
I have just now seen the phantom of my brother . 
that it gave me a little tingling of the blood to hear it . 
'I have just now seen , Mr. James repeated , looking full at me , that I might see how collected he was , 'the phantom of my brother John . 
Now , I am not in the least mad , and am not in the least disposed to invest that phantom with any external existence out of myself . 
I think it is a warning to me that I am ill and I think I had better be bled . 
and began to get on my clothes , begging him not to be alarmed , and telling him that I would go myself to the doctor . 
I was just ready , when we heard a loud knocking and ringing at the street door . 
'Is that Mr. James ? said a man below , falling back to the opposite side of the way to look up . 
'It is , said Mr. James , 'and you are my brother's man , Robert . 
I am sorry to say , Sir , that Mr. John is ill . 
He is very bad , Sir . 
It is even feared that he may be lying at the point of death . 
He wants to see you , Sir . 
I have a chaise here . 
Mr. James and I looked at one another . 
'Wilhelm , said he , 'this is strange . 
I went with Mr. James into his brother's room , and I saw and heard myself what follows . 
His brother lay upon his bed , at the upper end of a long bed chamber . 
His old housekeeper was there , and others were there I think three others were there , if not four , and they had been with him since early in the afternoon . 
He was in white , like the figure necessarily so , because he had his night dress on . 
He looked like the figure necessarily so , because he looked earnestly at his brother when he saw him come into the room . 
I looked round , and the five couriers were gone so noiselessly that the ghostly mountain might have absorbed them into its eternal snows . 
So I went back into the convent parlour , and , finding the American gentleman still disposed to relate the biography of the Honourable Ananias Dodger , heard it all out . 
