Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
But there are good stories enough left , and it is hoped that some in the Red Fairy Book may have the attraction of being less familiar than many of the old friends . 
Lady Frances Balfour has kindly copied an old version of Jack and the Beanstalk , and Messrs . 
Smith and Elder have permitted the publication of two of Mr. Ralston's versions from the Russian . 
The fact was he thought them very ugly , with their sun burnt necks , their great red hands , their coarse petticoats and their wooden shoes . 
That evening the little cow boy , who had been thinking a great deal about the advice of the lady in the golden dress , told his dream to the farm people . 
But , as was natural , they only laughed at the Star Gazer . 
The next day at the same hour he went to sleep again under the same tree . 
The lady appeared to him a second time , and said Go to the castle of Beloeil , and you shall marry a princess . 
In the evening Michael told his friends that he had dreamed the same dream again , but they only laughed at him more than before . 
Never mind , he thought to himself if the lady appears to me a third time , I will do as she tells me . 
It was enough to make anyone laugh , certainly . 
It was whispered about that they led exactly the lives that princesses ought to lead , sleeping far into the morning , and never getting up till mid day . 
On hearing the proclamation a number of princes arrived at the castle to try their luck . 
They watched all night behind the open door of the princesses , but when the morning came they had all disappeared , and no one could tell what had become of them . 
IV When he reached the castle , Michael went straight to the gardener and offered his services . 
Accordingly he placed himself behind the door of the princesses' room , with the twelve bouquets in a basket . 
Now Michael knew quite well what had happened to all the princes , but notwithstanding , the beautiful eyes of the Princess Lina inspired him with a violent longing to try his fate . 
Unhappily he did not dare to come forward , being afraid that he should only be jeered at , or even turned away from the castle on account of his impudence . 
V Nevertheless , the Star Gazer had another dream . 
She thus addressed him Plant these two laurels in two large pots , rake them over with the rake , water them with the bucket , and wipe them with the towel . 
'' Then after that ask anything you choose , and the laurels will give it to you . 
Michael thanked the lady in the golden dress , and when he woke he found the two laurel bushes beside him . 
So he carefully obeyed the orders he had been given by the lady . 
Teach me how to become invisible . 
Then there instantly appeared on the laurel a pretty white flower , which Michael gathered and stuck into his button hole . 
The princesses began at once to open their wardrobes and boxes . 
They took out of them the most magnificent dresses , which they put on before their mirrors , and when they had finished , turned themselves all round to admire their appearances . 
Michael could see nothing from his hiding place , but he could hear everything , and he listened to the princesses laughing and jumping with pleasure . 
At last the eldest said , Be quick , my sisters , our partners will be impatient . 
Are you ready ? asked the eldest . 
Yes , replied the other eleven in chorus , and they took their places one by one behind her . 
Then the eldest Princess clapped her hands three times and a trap door opened . 
All the princesses disappeared down a secret staircase , and Michael hastily followed them . 
As he was following on the steps of the Princess Lina , he carelessly trod on her dress . 
There is somebody behind me , cried the Princess they are holding my dress . 
You foolish thing , said her eldest sister , you are always afraid of something . 
It is only a nail which caught you . 
VII They went down , down , down , till at last they came to a passage with a door at one end , which was only fastened with a latch . 
They next crossed another wood where the leaves were sprinkled with gold , and after that another still , where the leaves glittered with diamonds . 
Each princess entered one of the boats , and Michael slipped into that which held the youngest . 
The boats glided along rapidly , but Lina's , from being heavier , was always behind the rest . 
We never went so slowly before , said the Princess what can be the reason ? I don't know , answered the Prince . 
I assure you I am rowing as hard as I can . 
On the other side of the lake the garden boy saw a beautiful castle splendidly illuminated , whence came the lively music of fiddles , kettle drums , and trumpets . 
VIII Michael followed , and entered the ball room in their train . 
Everywhere were mirrors , lights , flowers , and damask hangings . 
The Star Gazer was quite bewildered at the magnificence of the sight . 
He placed himself out of the way in a corner , admiring the grace and beauty of the princesses . 
Their loveliness was of every kind . 
Some were fair and some were dark some had chestnut hair , or curls darker still , and some had golden locks . 
With what eagerness she danced ! leaning on her partner's shoulder she swept by like a whirlwind . 
Her cheeks flushed , her eyes sparkled , and it was plain that she loved dancing better than anything else . 
The poor boy envied those handsome young men with whom she danced so gracefully , but he did not know how little reason he had to be jealous of them . 
The young men were really the princes who , to the number of fifty at least , had tried to steal the princesses' secret . 
The princesses had made them drink something of a philtre , which froze the heart and left nothing but the love of dancing . 
IX They danced on till the shoes of the princesses were worn into holes . 
After supper , the dancers all went back to their boats , and this time the Star Gazer entered that of the eldest Princess . 
Lina turned as she heard the noise made by the breaking of the branch . 
What was that noise ? she said . 
It was nothing , replied her eldest sister it was only the screech of the barn owl that roosts in one of the turrets of the castle . 
While she was speaking Michael managed to slip in front , and running up the staircase , he reached the princesses' room first . 
X That day , when he made up the bouquets , Michael hid the branch with the silver drops in the nosegay intended for the youngest Princess . 
When Lina discovered it she was much surprised . 
The same evening the twelve sisters went again to the ball , and the Star Gazer again followed them and crossed the lake in Lina's boat . 
This time it was the Prince who complained that the boat seemed very heavy . 
It is the heat , replied the Princess . 
I , too , have been feeling very warm . 
During the ball she looked everywhere for the gardener's boy , but she never saw him . 
It is nothing , said Lina only the cry of the owl which roosts in the turrets of the castle . 
XI As soon as she got up she found the branch in her bouquet . 
When the sisters went down she stayed a little behind and said to the cow boy Where does this branch come from ? Your Royal Highness knows well enough , answered Michael . 
So you have followed us ? Yes , Princess . 
How did you manage it ? we never saw you . 
I hid myself , replied the Star Gazer quietly . 
The Princess was silent a moment , and then said You know our secret ! keep it . 
Here is the reward of your discretion . 
And she flung the boy a purse of gold . 
I do not sell my silence , answered Michael , and he went away without picking up the purse . 
For three nights Lina neither saw nor heard anything extraordinary on the fourth she heard a rustling among the diamond spangled leaves of the wood . 
That day there was a branch of the trees in her bouquet . 
Don't you mean to tell him ? That is not my intention . 
Are you afraid ? No , Princess . 
What makes you so discreet , then ? But Michael was silent . 
XII Lina's sisters had seen her talking to the little garden boy , and jeered at her for it . 
What prevents your marrying him ? asked the eldest , you would become a gardener too it is a charming profession . 
The Princess Lina was very angry , and when the Star Gazer presented her bouquet , she received it in a disdainful manner . 
He never raised his eyes to her , but nearly all day she felt him at her side without ever seeing him . 
One day she made up her mind to tell everything to her eldest sister . 
What ! said she , this rogue knows our secret , and you never told me ! I must lose no time in getting rid of him . 
But how ? Why , by having him taken to the tower with the dungeons , of course . 
For this was the way that in old times beautiful princesses got rid of people who knew too much . 
XIII It was agreed that the question should be submitted to the other ten sisters . 
All were on the side of the eldest . 
Then the youngest sister declared that if they laid a finger on the little garden boy , she would herself go and tell their father the secret of the holes in their shoes . 
They sent for the Star Gazer , and asked him how he had contrived to learn their secret but still he remained silent . 
Then , in commanding tones , the eldest sister gave him the order they had agreed upon . 
He only answered I will obey . 
Dress me like a prince . 
A beautiful pink flower appeared . 
Thus dressed , he presented himself that evening before the Duke of Beloeil , and obtained leave to try and discover his daughters' secret . 
He looked so distinguished that hardly anyone would have known who he was . 
XIV The twelve princesses went upstairs to bed . 
Michael followed them , and waited behind the open door till they gave the signal for departure . 
This time he did not cross in Lina's boat . 
He gave his arm to the eldest sister , danced with each in turn , and was so graceful that everyone was delighted with him . 
At last the time came for him to dance with the little Princess . 
She found him the best partner in the world , but he did not dare to speak a single word to her . 
When he was taking her back to her place she said to him in a mocking voice Here you are at the summit of your wishes you are being treated like a prince . 
Don't be afraid , replied the Star Gazer gently . 
You shall never be a gardener's wife . 
The little Princess stared at him with a frightened face , and he left her without waiting for an answer . 
When the satin slippers were worn through the fiddles stopped , and the negro boys set the table . 
Michael was placed next to the eldest sister , and opposite to the youngest . 
But he took care not to be intoxicated , either by the wine or the compliments . 
XV At last the eldest sister made a sign , and one of the black pages brought in a large golden cup . 
The enchanted castle has no more secrets for you , she said to the Star Gazer . 
Let us drink to your triumph . 
He cast a lingering glance at the little Princess , and without hesitation lifted the cup . 
Don't drink ! suddenly cried out the little Princess I would rather marry a gardener . 
And she burst into tears . 
Michael flung the contents of the cup behind him , sprang over the table , and fell at Lina's feet . 
The rest of the princes fell likewise at the knees of the princesses , each of whom chose a husband and raised him to her side . 
The twelve couples embarked in the boats , which crossed back many times in order to carry over the other princes . 
They went straight to the room of the Duke of Beloeil , who had just awoke . 
Michael held in his hand the golden cup , and he revealed the secret of the holes in the shoes . 
Choose , then , said the Duke , whichever you prefer . 
My choice is already made , replied the garden boy , and he offered his hand to the youngest Princess , who blushed and lowered her eyes . 
And this is why the country girls go about singing Nous n'irons plus au bois , Les lauriers sont coupes , and dancing in summer by the light of the moon . 
This was accordingly done , and the nurses , after they had made their curtsey to the King and Queen , ranged themselves in a line before her that she might choose . 
Most of them were fair and fat and charming , but there was one who was dark skinned and ugly , and spoke a strange language which nobody could understand . 
The Queen wondered how she dared offer herself , and she was told to go away , as she certainly would not do . 
Upon which she muttered something and passed on , but hid herself in a hollow tree , from which she could see all that happened . 
Then the Queen began to cry . 
If I had only known who it was , she said , I would have done my best to make friends with her now I suppose all is lost . 
Of all the fairies the Queen knew , only five were able to come on the day appointed , but they began immediately to bestow gifts upon the Princess . 
But the ugly old Fairy only grunted and made no answer . 
So the last Fairy , who had not yet given her gift , tried to mend matters by promising the Princess a long and happy life after the fatal time was over . 
At this Carabosse laughed maliciously , and climbed away up the chimney , leaving them all in great consternation , and especially the Queen . 
However , she entertained the fairies splendidly , and gave them beautiful ribbons , of which they are very fond , in addition to the other presents . 
So the King had a tower built on purpose . 
Often the King said to the Queen We were cleverer than Carabosse after all . 
Our Mayblossom will be happy in spite of her predictions . 
And the Queen laughed until she was tired at the idea of having outwitted the old Fairy . 
It was a scene of woe . 
When the Princess saw that they all pitied her she made up her mind to have her own way . 
So she declared that she would starve herself to death if they did not find some means of letting her see Fanfaronade's grand entry into the town . 
If you really love me , she said , you will manage it , somehow or other , and the King and Queen need never know anything about it . 
Then the nurse and all the others cried harder than ever , and said everything they could think of to turn the Princess from her idea . 
But the more they said the more determined she was , and at last they consented to make a tiny hole in the tower on the side that looked towards the city gates . 
At the head of it rode Fanfaronade himself upon a white horse , which pranced and caracoled to the sound of the trumpets . 
Nothing could have been more splendid than the ambassador's attire . 
His coat was nearly hidden under an embroidery of pearls and diamonds , his boots were solid gold , and from his helmet floated scarlet plumes . 
At the sight of him the Princess lost her wits entirely , and determined that Fanfaronade and nobody else would she marry . 
It is quite impossible , she said , that his master should be half as handsome and delightful . 
I am not ambitious , and having spent all my life in this tedious tower , anything even a house in the country will seem a delightful change . 
I am sure that bread and water shared with Fanfaronade will please me far better than roast chicken and sweetmeats with anybody else . 
And so she went on talk , talk , talking , until her waiting women wondered where she got it all from . 
As soon as the ambassador arrived at the palace , the Queen started to fetch her daughter . 
They had hardly begun to get the Princess ready when a dwarf arrived , mounted upon an elephant . 
He came from the five fairies , and brought for the Princess a crown , a sceptre , and a robe of golden brocade , with a petticoat marvellously embroidered with butterflies' wings . 
They also sent a casket of jewels , so splendid that no one had ever seen anything like it before , and the Queen was perfectly dazzled when she opened it . 
But the Princess scarcely gave a glance to any of these treasures , for she thought of nothing but Fanfaronade . 
The Dwarf was rewarded with a gold piece , and decorated with so many ribbons that it was hardly possible to see him at all . 
The Queen put her royal mantle over her head , and all the princesses did the same with their trains . 
And then peals of mocking laughter rang through the air , and they guessed that this was another of the Fairy Carabosse's unpleasant jokes . 
When we are once under shelter we can laugh at her . 
So , if you think about it as I do , I will marry you instead of your master . 
The Ambassador thought he must be dreaming , and could hardly believe what the lovely Princess said . 
He dared not answer , but only squeezed the Princess's hand until he really hurt her little finger , but she did not cry out . 
I consent also , said the Queen so let the banquet be prepared . 
This was done with all speed , and everybody feasted except Mayblossom and Fanfaronade , who looked at one another and forgot everything else . 
After the banquet came a ball , and after that again a ballet , and at last they were all so tired that everyone fell asleep just where he sat . 
They could see neither moon nor stars , but in the Queen's neck handkerchief there was a carbuncle which glowed like fifty torches . 
Fanfaronade asked the Princess where she would like to go , but she only answered that she did not care where she went as long as he was with her . 
But , Princess , said he , I dare not take you back to King Merlin's court . 
He would think hanging too good for me . 
Oh , in that case , she answered , we had better go to Squirrel Island it is lonely enough , and too far off for anyone to follow us there . 
So she ordered the old boatman to steer for Squirrel Island . 
And the Queen asked for her neck handkerchief , that she might look smart . 
By this time the King had missed his dagger , and the search began all over again . 
When the King saw that the search was hopeless he said Never mind , let us make haste and get the wedding over before anything else is lost . 
And then he asked where the Princess was . 
Upon this her nurse came forward and said Sire , I have been seeking her these two hours , but she is nowhere to be found . 
This was more than the Queen could bear . 
She gave a shriek of alarm and fainted away , and they had to pour two barrels of eau de cologne over her before she recovered . 
Perhaps I could bear even that if I had any money , but I assure you that the expenses of the wedding have completely ruined me . 
Advise me , then , my dear subjects , what had I better do to recover my daughter , Fanfaronade , and the other things . 
We would give everything we value in the world to take away the cause of your sorrow , but this seems to be another of the tricks of the Fairy Carabosse . 
The Princess's twenty unlucky years were not quite over , and really , if the truth must be told , I noticed that Fanfaronade and the Princess appeared to admire one another greatly . 
Perhaps this may give some clue to the mystery of their disappearance . 
Here the Queen interrupted him , saying , Take care what you say , sir . 
Believe me , the Princess Mayblossom was far too well brought up to think of falling in love with an Ambassador . 
Then the Queen was very angry , and gave the nurse , and the cradle rocker , and the nursery maid such a scolding that they shook in their shoes . 
But the Admiral Cocked Hat interrupted her , crying Let us be off after this good for nothing Fanfaronade , for with out a doubt he has run away with our Princess . 
Then there was a great clapping of hands , and everybody shouted , By all means let us be after him . 
But the answer everywhere was , You must go farther , we have not seen them . 
However , those who went by sea were more fortunate , for after sailing about for some time they noticed a light before them which burned at night like a great fire . 
Happy ! cried he say rather unhappy . 
I wish with all my heart that you were back in your dark tower again . 
Darling , don't be cross , said the Princess . 
I will go and see if I can find some wild fruit for you . 
I wish you might find a wolf to eat you up , growled Fanfaronade . 
When he saw that she came empty handed he got up and left her , grumbling to himself . 
The next day they searched again , but with no better success . 
Alas ! said the Princess , if only I could find something for you to eat , I should not mind being hungry myself . 
No , I should not mind that either , answered Fanfaronade . 
It makes a great difference in one's ideas to be dying of hunger and thirst on a desert island . 
At this the Princess was dreadfully vexed , and she sat down under a white rose bush and began to cry bitterly . 
Happy roses , she thought to herself , they have only to blossom in the sunshine and be admired , and there is nobody to be unkind to them . 
And the tears ran down her cheeks and splashed on to the rose tree roots . 
Mayblossom ran to the tree , and sure enough there was the honey . 
Without losing a moment she ran with it to Fanfaronade , crying gaily See , here is a honeycomb that I have found . 
I might have eaten it up all by myself , but I had rather share it with you . 
But without looking at her or thanking her he snatched the honey comb out of her hands and ate it all up every bit , without offering her a morsel . 
Indeed , when she humbly asked for some he said mockingly that it was too sweet for her , and would spoil her teeth . 
Take this pitcher of milk and drink it up , and whatever you do , don't leave a drop for Fanfaronade . 
Ah ! cried the Princess , I am well punished for disappointing the King and Queen , and running away with this Ambassador about whom I knew nothing . 
And so saying she wandered away into the thickest part of the wood , and sat down under a thorn tree , where a nightingale was singing . 
Presently she heard him say Search under the bush Princess you will find some sugar , almonds , and some tarts there But don't be silly enough to offer Fanfaronade any . 
And this time the Princess , who was fainting with hunger , took the nightingale's advice , and ate what she found all by herself . 
Their Majesties were overjoyed at the news , and the King sent for a great book , each leaf of which was eight ells long . 
It was the work of a very clever Fairy , and contained a description of the whole earth . 
He very soon found that Squirrel Island was uninhabited . 
Go , said he , to Jack the Chatterer , tell the Admiral from me to land at once . 
I am surprised at his not having done so sooner . 
As he was not very brave he accepted her aid gladly . 
You stand behind me , said she , and I will hold the carbuncle which will make us invisible , and with the King's dagger I can protect you from the enemy . 
Will you believe it ! she actually wanted to claim authority over you for ever , because you came out of the tower four days before the twenty years were ended . 
However , I think I have settled her pretensions , and I hope you will be very happy and enjoy the freedom I have won for you . 
Admiral Cocked Hat was immensely surprised when he came upon the golden chariot , and still more so to see two lovely ladies walking under the trees a little farther away . 
When he reached them , of course he recognised the Princess , and he went down on his knees and kissed her hand quite joyfully . 
Then she presented him to the Fairy , and told him how Carabosse had been finally routed , and he thanked and congratulated the Fairy , who was most gracious to him . 
While they were talking she cried suddenly I declare I smell a savoury dinner . 
Why yes , Madam , here it is , said Jack the Chatterer , holding up the spit , where all the pheasants and partridges were frizzling . 
Will your Highness please to taste any of them ? By all means , said the Fairy , especially as the Princess will certainly be glad of a good meal . 
So the Admiral sent back to his ship for everything that was needful , and they feasted merrily under the trees . 
By the time they had finished the peacock had come back with a robe for the Princess , in which the Fairy arrayed her . 
It was of green and gold brocade , embroidered with pearls and rubies , and her long golden hair was tied back with strings of diamonds and emeralds , and crowned with flowers . 
Then salutes were fired , the fleet weighed anchor , and very soon they reached the port . 
But , after all , it must have been all Carabosse's fault . 
As he was a hundred times handsomer and braver than the Ambassador , the Princess found she could like him very much . 
So the wedding was held at once , with so much splendour and rejoicing that all the previous misfortunes were quite forgotten . 
SORIA MORIA CASTLE THERE was once upon a time a couple of folks who had a son called Halvor . 
Ever since he had been a little boy he had been unwilling to do any work , and had just sat raking about among the ashes . 
One day , however , a sea captain came and asked Halvor if he hadn't a fancy to come with him and go to sea , and behold foreign lands . 
And Halvor had a fancy for that , so he was not long in getting ready . 
So after a while he came to a great highway , which was so smooth that an egg might have been rolled along it without breaking . 
Halvor followed this , and when evening drew near he saw a big castle far away in the distance , and there were lights in it . 
So as he had now been walking the whole day and had not brought anything to eat away with him , he was frightfully hungry . 
Nevertheless , the nearer he came to the castle the more afraid he was . 
A fire was burning in the castle , and Halvor went into the kitchen , which was more magnificent than any kitchen he had ever yet beheld . 
There were vessels of gold and silver , but not one human being was to be seen . 
A Troll with three heads lives here . 
Halvor took a draught , and in a moment he was able to swing the sword about with perfect ease . 
And now he thought it was high time for the Troll to make his appearance , and at that very moment he came , panting for breath . 
Halvor got behind the door . 
Hutetu ! said the Troll as he put his head in at the door . 
It smells just as if there were Christian man's blood here ! Yes , you shall learn that there is ! said Halvor , and cut off all his heads . 
So she told him where they were . 
Halvor was so strong that he cleared everything away , and made all clean and tidy very quickly . 
So then they ate and drank , and were happy , and next morning he set off in the grey light of dawn . 
He gave himself no rest , but walked or ran the livelong day . 
When he came in sight of the castle he was again just a little afraid . 
It was much more splendid than the other , but here too there was not a human being to be seen . 
So Halvor went into the kitchen , and did not linger there either , but went straight in . 
Nay ! do Christian folk dare to come here ? cried the second Princess . 
I know not how long it is since I myself came , but during all that time I have never seen a Christian man . 
It will be better for you to depart at once , for a Troll lives here who has six heads . 
No , I shall not go , said Halvor even if he had six more I would not . 
He will swallow you up alive , said the Princess . 
So she gave him as much as he would have , and then she once more tried to make him go away . 
No , said Halvor , I will not go , for I have not done anything wrong , and I have no reason to be afraid . 
Soon afterwards the Troll came , and he was so large and stout that he was forced to go sideways to get through the door . 
The Princess was now exceedingly delighted , but then she remembered her sisters , and wished that they too were free . 
It was a long way to the castle , and he both walked and ran to get there in time . 
Late in the evening he caught sight of it , and it was very much more magnificent than either of the others . 
And this time he was not in the least afraid , but went into the kitchen , and then straight on inside the castle . 
There a Princess was sitting , who was so beautiful that there was never anyone to equal her . 
The Troll had nine heads , she told him . 
The Princess begged him very prettily to go lest the Troll should devour him but Halvor said , Let him come when he will . 
So she gave him the Troll's sword , and bade him take a drink from the flask to enable him to wield it . 
Hutetu ! what a smell of Christian blood there is here ! said he . 
They thought that this might easily be done . 
You shall go and return in perfect safety if you will follow our advice , said the Princesses . 
So he said that he would do nothing that they did not wish . 
If I were but at home again , or if home were but here ! said Halvor , and no sooner had he wished this than it was granted . 
Halvor was standing outside his father and mother's cottage before he knew what he was about . 
Halvor then inquired if he could stay there and have lodging for the night . 
No , that he certainly could not . 
We can give you no such accommodation , they said , for we have none of the things that are needful when a great lord like you is to be entertained . 
It will be better for you to go up to the farm . 
It is not far off , you can see the chimney pots from here , and there they have plenty of everything . 
No , said Halvor , I will not go up there till early to morrow morning let me stay here to night . 
I can sit down on the hearth . 
They chattered much about many things , and told Halvor of this and of that , and at last he asked them if they had never had any child . 
Could I be he ? said Halvor . 
I should know him well enough , said the old woman rising . 
Our Halvor was so idle and slothful that he never did anything at all , and he was so ragged that one hole ran into another all over his clothes . 
Such a fellow as he was could never turn into such a man as you are , sir . 
Good Heavens ! is that you , Halvor ? said she , and such great gladness fell on the old parents that there were no bounds to it . 
She went there first , and Halvor followed her . 
When she got there she told them how Halvor had come home again , and now they should just see how magnificent he was . 
He looks like a prince , she said . 
We shall see that he is just the same ragamuffin that he was before , said the girls , tossing their heads . 
At that same moment Halvor entered , and the girls were so astonished that they left their kirtles lying in the chimney corner , and ran away in nothing but their petticoats . 
When they came in again they were so shamefaced that they hardly dared to look at Halvor , towards whom they had always been so proud and haughty before . 
I wish to Heaven they were here , and then you would see them . 
Scarcely had he said this before they were standing by his side , but then he was very sorrowful , for the words which they had said to him came to his mind . 
Up at the farm a great feast was made ready for the Princesses , and much respect paid to them , but they would not stay there . 
We want to go down to your parents , they said to Halvor , so we will go out and look about us . 
He followed them out , and they came to a large pond outside the farm house . 
There they sat down , and when they had sat for a short time the youngest Princess said , I may as well comb your hair a little , Halvor . 
So Halvor laid his head down on her lap , and she combed it , and it was not long before he fell asleep . 
Then she took her ring from him and put another in its place , and then she said to her sisters Hold me as I am holding you . 
I would that we were at Soria Moria Castle . 
When Halvor awoke he knew that he had lost the Princesses , and began to weep and lament , and was so unhappy that he could not be comforted . 
He again had three hundred dollars , which he put into his pocket and went on his way . 
When he had walked some distance he met a man with a tolerably good horse . 
Halvor longed to buy it , and began to bargain with the man . 
At last they agreed about the price , and Halvor laid his bag on the horse , and sometimes he walked and sometimes he rode . 
In the evening he came to a green field , where stood a great tree , under which he seated himself . 
Then he let the horse loose and lay down to sleep , but before he did that he took his bag off the horse . 
At daybreak he set off again , for he did not feel as if he could take any rest . 
So he walked and rode the whole day , through a great wood where there were many green places which gleamed very prettily among the trees . 
So he walked and he rode , and it seemed to him that the wood would never come to an end . 
But on the evening of the second day he saw a light shining through the trees . 
If only there were some people up there I might warm myself and get something to eat , thought Halvor . 
Good evening I good evening ! said the old hag but what errand have you that can bring you here ? No Christian folk have been here for more than a hundred years . 
So Halvor told her that he wanted to get to Soria Moria Castle , and inquired if she knew the way thither . 
No , said the old woman , that I do not , but the Moon will be here presently , and I will ask her , and she will know . 
She can easily see it , for she shines on all things . 
So when the Moon stood clear and bright above the tree tops the old woman went out . 
Moon ! Moon ! she screamed . 
Canst thou tell me the way to Soria Moria Castle ? No , said the Moon , that I can't , for when I shone there , there was a cloud before me . 
What ! have you a horse too ? she said when she came in again . 
Oh ! let the poor creature loose in our bit of fenced in pasture , and don't let it stand there starving at our very door . 
But won't you exchange him with me ? We have a pair of old boots here with which you can go fifteen quarters of a mile at each step . 
You shall have them for the horse , and then you will be able to get sooner to Soria Moria Castle . 
Halvor consented to this at once , and the old woman was so delighted with the horse that she was ready to dance . 
For now I , too , shall be able to ride to church , she said . 
Halvor could take no rest , and wanted to set off immediately but the old woman said that there was no need to hasten . 
Lie down on the bench and sleep a little , for we have no bed to offer you , said she , and I will watch for the coming of the West Wind . 
Ere long came the West Wind , roaring so loud that the walls creaked . 
The old woman went out and cried West Wind ! West Wind ! Canst thou tell me the way to Soria Moria Castle ? Here is one who would go thither . 
Yes , I know it well , said the West Wind . 
I am just on my way there to dry the clothes for the wedding which is to take place . 
If he is fleet of foot he can go with me . 
Yes , said Halvor , he has only gone to break down a bit of spruce fir . 
It won't be long before he is here . 
And then he asked them the way to Soria Moria Castle . 
They put him in the right way , and when he came in front of the castle it was so full of horses and people that it swarmed with them . 
Yes , he is the right one , cried the youngest Princess when she caught sight of him so she flung the other out of the window and held her wedding with Halvor . 
THE DEATH OF KOSHCHEI THE DEATHLESS IN a certain kingdom there lived a Prince Ivan . 
The first was the Princess Marya , the second the Princess Olga , the third the Princess Anna . 
When their father and mother lay at the point of death , they had thus enjoined their son Give your sisters in marriage to the very first suitors who come to woo them . 
Suddenly the sky was covered by a black cloud a terrible storm arose . 
Let us go home , sisters ! he cried . 
Hardly had they got into the palace , when the thunder pealed , the ceiling split open , and into the room where they were came flying a falcon bright . 
If you find favour in the eyes of my sister , I will not interfere with her wishes . 
Let her marry you , in God's name ! The Princess Marya gave her consent the Falcon married her and bore her away into his own realm . 
Days follow days , hours chase hours a whole year goes by . 
One day Prince Ivan and his two sisters went out to stroll in the garden green . 
Again there arose a storm cloud , with whirlwind and lightning . 
Let us go home , sisters ! cries the Prince . 
Scarcely had they entered the palace when the thunder crashed , the roof burst into a blaze , the ceiling split in twain , and in flew an eagle . 
The Eagle smote upon the ground and became a brave youth . 
Hail , Prince Ivan ! I Before I came as a guest , but now I have come as a wooer ! And he asked for the hand of the Princess Olga . 
Prince Ivan replied If you find favour in the eyes of the Princess Olga , then let her marry you . 
I will not interfere with her liberty of choice . 
The Princess Olga gave her consent and married the Eagle . 
The Eagle took her and carried her off to his own kingdom . 
Prince Ivan said to his youngest sister Let us go out and stroll in the garden green ! They strolled about for a time . 
Again there arose a storm cloud , with whirlwind and lightning . 
Let us return home , sister ! said he . 
They returned home , but they hadn't had time to sit down when the thunder crashed , the ceiling split open , and in flew a raven . 
The Raven smote upon the floor and became a brave youth . 
The former youths had been handsome , but this one was handsomer still . 
Well , Prince Ivan ! Before I came as a guest , but now I have come as a wooer ! Give me the Princess Anna to wife . 
I won't interfere with my sister's freedom . 
If you gain her affections , let her marry you . 
So the Princess Anna married the Raven , and he bore her away into his own realm . 
Prince Ivan was left alone . 
A whole year he lived without his sisters then he grew weary , and said I will set out in search of my sisters . 
He got ready for the journey , he rode and rode , and one day he saw a whole army lying dead on the plain . 
Prince Ivan rode further on , and came to a white tent , and forth came to meet him the fair Princess Marya Morevna . 
Thereat was Prince Ivan glad . 
He spent two nights in the tent , and he found favour in the eyes of Marya Morevna , and she married him . 
The fair Princess , Marya Morevna , carried him off into her own realm . 
They spent some time together , and then the Princess took it into her head to go a warring . 
He couldn't help doing so . 
The moment Marya Morevna had gone he rushed to the closet , pulled open the door , and looked in there hung Koshchei the Deathless , fettered by twelve chains . 
And he came up with the fair Princess Marya Morevna as she was going her way , laid hold of her and carried her off home with him . 
The Prince spent three days with them then he said I cannot abide with you I must go in search of my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . 
Hard will it be for you to find her , answered the Falcon . 
At all events leave with us your silver spoon . 
We will look at it and remember you . 
So Prince Ivan left his silver spoon at the Falcon's , and went on his way again . 
With them Prince Ivan stopped three days then he said I cannot stay here any longer . 
I am going to look for my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . 
Hard will it be for you to find her , replied the Eagle . 
Leave with us a silver fork . 
We will look at it and remember you . 
He left a silver fork behind , and went his way . 
Down flew the Raven from the oak , smote upon the ground , turned into a brave youth , and cried aloud Princess Anna , come forth quickly I our brother is coming . 
Out ran the Princess Anna , greeted him joyfully , and began kissing and embracing him , asking after his health and telling him all about herself . 
Prince Ivan stayed with them three days then he said Farewell ! I am going to look for my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . 
Hard will it be for you to find her , replied the Raven . 
Anyhow , leave your silver snuff box with us . 
We will look at it and remember you . 
The Prince handed over his silver snuff box , took his leave , and went his way . 
One day he went , another day he went , and on the third day he came to where Marya Morevna was . 
Perhaps he won't catch us . 
So they got ready and fled . 
Now Koshchei was out hunting . 
Towards evening he was returning home , when his good steed stumbled beneath him . 
Why stumblest thou , sorry jade ? Scentest thou some ill ? The steed replied Prince Ivan has come and carried off Marya Morevna . 
Koshchei galloped off and caught up Prince Ivan . 
Now , says he , this time I will forgive you , in return for your kindness in giving me water to drink . 
And a second time I will forgive you but the third time beware ! I will cut you to bits . 
Then he took Marya Morevna from him , and carried her off . 
But Prince Ivan sat down on a stone and burst into tears . 
He wept and wept and then returned back again to Marya Morevna . 
Now Koshchei the Deathless happened not to be at home . 
Let us fly , Marya Morevna ! Ah , Prince Ivan ! he will catch us . 
Suppose he does catch us . 
At all events we shall have spent an hour or two together . 
So they got ready and fled . 
As Koshchei the Deathless was returning home , his good steed stumbled beneath him . 
Why stumblest thou , sorry jade ? Scentest thou some ill ? Prince Ivan has come and carried off Marya Morevna . 
Prince Ivan was left there alone . 
He wept and wept then he went back again after Marya Morevna . 
Koshchei happened to be away from home at that moment . 
Let us fly , Marya Morevna ! Ah , Prince Ivan ! he is sure to catch us and hew you in pieces . 
Let him hew away ! I cannot live without you . 
So they got ready and fled . 
Koshchei the Deathless was returning home when his good steed stumbled beneath him . 
Why stumblest thou ? Scentest thou any ill ? Prince Ivan has come and has carried off Marya Morevna . 
But Marya Morevna he carried off home . 
At that very time the silver articles turned black which Prince Ivan had left with his brothers in law . 
Afterwards they all three met , broke open the barrel , took out the remains of Prince Ivan , washed them , and put them together in fitting order . 
The Raven sprinkled them with the Water of Death the pieces joined together , the body became whole . 
Now come and pay us a visit . 
Not so , brothers I shall go and look for Marya Morevna . 
And when he had found her , he said to her Find out from Koshchei the Deathless whence he got so good a steed . 
So Marya Morevna chose a favourable moment , and began asking Koshchei about it . 
Koshchei replied Beyond thrice nine lands , in the thirtieth kingdom , on the other side of the fiery river , there lives a Baba Yaga . 
She has so good a mare that she flies right round the world on it every day . 
And she has many other splendid mares . 
I watched her herds for three days without losing a single mare , and in return for that the Baba Yaga gave me a foal . 
Marya Morevna listened to all this , and repeated it to Prince Ivan , and she carried off the handkerchief and gave it to him . 
So he managed to get across the fiery river , and then went on to the Baba Yaga's . 
Long went he on without getting anything either to eat or to drink . 
At last he came across an outlandish bird and its young ones . 
Says Prince Ivan I'll eat one of these chickens . 
Don't eat it , Prince Ivan ! begs the outlandish bird some time or other I'll do you a good turn . 
He went on farther and saw a hive of bees in the forest . 
I'll get a bit of honeycomb , says he . 
Don't disturb my honey , Prince Ivan ! exclaims the queen bee some time or other I'll do you a good turn . 
So he didn't disturb it , but went on . 
Presently there met him a lioness with her cub . 
Very well have it your own way , says he . 
Hungry and faint he wandered on , walked farther and farther , and at last came to where stood the house of the Baba Yaga . 
Round the house were set twelve poles in a circle , and on each of eleven of these poles was stuck a human head the twelfth alone remained unoccupied . 
So be it , Prince ! You won't have to serve a year with me , but just three days . 
If you take good care of my mares , I'll give you an heroic steed . 
But if you don't why , then you mustn't be annoyed at finding your head stuck on top of the last pole up there . 
Prince Ivan agreed to these terms . 
The Baba Yaga gave him food and drink , and bade him set about his business . 
But the moment he had driven the mares afield , they cocked up their tails , and away they tore across the meadows in all directions . 
Before the Prince had time to look round they were all out of sight . 
Thereupon he began to weep and to disquiet himself , and then he sat down upon a stone and went to sleep . 
But when the sun was near its setting the outlandish bird came flying up to him , and awakened him , saying Arise , Prince Ivan ! The mares are at home now . 
The Prince arose and returned home . 
There the Baba Yaga was storming and raging at her mares , and shrieking Whatever did ye come home for ? How could we help coming home ? said they . 
There came flying birds from every part of the world , and all but pecked our eyes out . 
Well , well ! to morrow don't go galloping over the meadows , but disperse amid the thick forests . 
Prince Ivan slept all night . 
Immediately they cocked up their tails and dispersed among the thick forests . 
Again did the Prince sit down on the stone , weep and weep , and then go to sleep . 
The sun went down behind the forest . 
Up came running the lioness . 
Arise , Prince Ivan ! The mares are all collected . 
Prince Ivan arose and went home . 
Well , to morrow run off into the blue sea . 
Again did Prince Ivan sleep through the night . 
Next morning the Baba Yaga sent him forth to watch the mares . 
If you don't take good care of them , says she , your bold head will be stuck on that pole ! He drove the mares afield . 
Immediately they cocked up their tails , disappeared from sight , and fled into the blue sea . 
There they stood , up to their necks in water . 
Prince Ivan sat down on the stone , wept , and fell asleep . 
But when the sun had set behind the forest , up came flying a bee , and said Arise , Prince ! The mares are all collected . 
But when you get home , don't let the Baba Yaga set eyes on you , but go into the stable and hide behind the mangers . 
There you will find a sorry colt rolling in the muck . 
Do you steal it , and at the dead of night ride away from the house . 
In the dead of the night Prince Ivan stole the sorry colt , saddled it , jumped on its back , and galloped away to the fiery river . 
At full speed did she fly in her iron mortar , urging it on with the pestle , sweeping away her traces with the broom . 
There truly did she meet with a cruel death ! Prince Ivan fattened up the colt in the green meadows , and it turned into a wondrous steed . 
Then he rode to where Marya Morevna was . 
She came running out , and flung herself on his neck , crying By what means has God brought you back to life ? Thus and thus , says he . 
Now come along with me . 
I am afraid , Prince Ivan ! If Koshchei catches us you will be cut in pieces again . 
No , he won't catch us ! I have a splendid heroic steed now it flies just like a bird . 
So they got on its back and rode away . 
Koshchei the Deathless was returning home when his horse stumbled beneath him . 
What art thou stumbling for , sorry jade ? Dost thou scent any ill ? Prince Ivan has come and carried off Marya Morevna . 
Can we catch them ? God knows ! Prince Ivan has a horse now which is better than I. Well , I can't stand it , says Koshchei the Deathless . 
After a time he came up with Prince Ivan , lighted on the ground , and was going to chop him up with his sharp sword . 
But at that moment Prince Ivan's horse smote Koshchei the Deathless full swing with its hoof , and cracked his skull , and the Prince made an end of him with a club . 
Afterwards the Prince heaped up a pile of wood , set fire to it , burnt Koshchei the Deathless on the pyre , and scattered his ashes to the wind . 
Then Marya Morevna mounted Koshchei's horse and Prince Ivan got on his own , and they rode away to visit first the Raven , and then the Eagle , and then the Falcon . 
Wherever they went they met with a joyful greeting . 
Ah , Prince Ivan ! why , we never expected to see you again . 
Well , it wasn't for nothing that you gave yourself so much trouble . 
THE BLACK THIEF AND KNIGHT OF THE GLEN . 
Neglect not to give them education suitable to their birth , and let them be trained up to every exercise and pastime requisite for king's sons to learn . 
This is all I have to say , so farewell . 
She was interred with great pomp and magnificence , and the King , her husband , became in a manner inconsolable for the loss of her . 
However , he caused the tower to be built and his sons placed in it , under proper guardians , according to his promise . 
That fared well , and King and Queen lived happy together for several years . 
The Queen , greatly incensed at such a daring insult from one of her meanest subjects , demanded immediately the reason , or she would have her put to death . 
It was worth your while , madam , says the hen wife , to pay me well for it , for the reason I prayed so on you concerns you much . 
What must I pay you ? asked the Queen . 
How much wool will it take to the pack ? says the Queen . 
It will take seven herds of sheep , said she , and their increase for seven years . 
How much butter will it take to fill your crock ? Seven dairies , said she , and their increase for seven years . 
And how much will it take to fill the barrel you have ? says the Queen . 
It will take the increase of seven barrels of wheat for seven years . 
That is a great quantity , says the Queen but the reason must be extraordinary , and before I want it , I will give you all you demand . 
What is that ? says the Queen . 
And what would you advise me to do ? said she I am wholly at a loss in what manner to act in this affair . 
He readily consented to her desire , and his sons were sent for to the tower , who gladly came to Court , rejoicing that they were freed from such confinement . 
They were all very handsome , and very expert in all arts and exercises , so that they gained the love and esteem of all that had seen them . 
However , everyone was anxious to hear the Queen's commands in regard to the two Princes , not thinking that she had any ill design in her head against them . 
However , they could not retract the bargain , and the youngest Prince was desired to tell what demand he had on the Queen , as he had won his game . 
, with nothing but sheaf corn for her food and cold water for her drink , if it should be for seven years and longer . 
The prince , willing to gratify his request , told him their affairs from the beginning to the end . 
And now , said he , we are travelling , and do not know whether we are on the right road or not . 
Ah ! my brave fellows , says the Black Thief , you little know the danger you run . 
They returned him sincere thanks for his kindness , and he , being well acquainted with the road , in a short time brought them within view of the knight's castle . 
He seems to be the captain , and looks as if he had come through many toils . 
I was as near death once as the prince is yet , says the Black Thief , and escaped and so will he too . 
No , you never were , said the knight for he is within two or three minutes of his latter end . 
But , says the Black Thief , I was within one moment of my death , and I am here yet . 
How was that ? says the knight I would be glad to hear it , for it seems impossible . 
At length I came to an old kiln , and being much fatigued I went up and lay on the ribs . 
I had not been long there when I saw three witches coming in with three bags of gold . 
Each put their bags of gold under their heads , as if to sleep . 
I heard one of them say to the other that if the Black Thief came on them while they slept , he would not leave them a penny . 
I found by their discourse that everybody had got my name into their mouth , though I kept silent as death during their discourse . 
Seeing they did not appear in any formidable shape , I was more than once resolved to attack them , thinking that with my broad sword I could easily destroy them . 
Having the hatchet made , she fell to cutting down the tree , and in the course of an hour it began to shake with me . 
At length it began to bend , and I found that one or two blows at the most would put it down . 
Indeed , says the Black Thief , I would fain think he would not die this time either . 
How so ? says the knight it is impossible for him to escape . 
Why , have you been in another great danger ? says the knight . 
I would be glad to hear the story too , and if it be as wonderful as the last , I will pardon this young man as I did the other . 
I had retreated but a few paces when I observed , between me and the light , the figure of a tall black man standing in the entrance . 
Being in great fear and not knowing how to pass , I fired a pistol at him , and he immediately fell across the entrance . 
I was then very sorry that I had the misfortune to kill him , but it then could not be helped . 
I knew very well on the first sight of me that could be got , I would be shot like a dog . 
However , I had not time to lose . 
That happens well , says the Thief of Sloan , for I like him best myself , and have reserved the most curious passage for the last on his account . 
Well , then , says the knight , let us hear it . 
She told me of a house a distance off where I would get a woman who would take care of it . 
, and strip off your clothes that he may not know you from the rest if he has occasion to go that way . 
'' I took her advice , and laid myself down among the rest , as if dead , to see how he would behave . 
The first thing I heard was him calling for his pie . 
The pie only served to sharpen his appetite , and I heard him sharpening his knife and saying he must have a collop or two , for he was not near satisfied . 
You may be certain I was in great pain , but the fear of being killed prevented me from making any complaint . 
And is this my deliverer ? says he . 
They promised they would , and with great joy they set off for the King their father's palace , and the Black Thief along with them . 
The three princes lived happy and well during their father's reign , and always keeping the Black Thief along with them but how they did after the old King's death is not known . 
THE MASTER THIEF THERE was once upon a time a husbandman who had three sons . 
He would gladly accompany them for some part of their way , he said , and that he did . 
What became of the two elder I have never been able to discover , but the youngest went both far and wide . 
It came to pass , one night , as he was going through a great wood , that a terrible storm came on . 
But he went on , and at last he saw a light far away in the wood . 
Then he thought he must try and get to it , and after a long , long time he did reach it . 
There was a large house , and the fire was burning so brightly inside that he could tell that the people were not in bed . 
So he went in , and inside there was an old woman who was busy about some work . 
Good evening , mother ! said the youth . 
Good evening ! said the old woman . 
Hutetu ! it is terrible weather outside to night , said the young fellow . 
Indeed it is , said the old woman . 
Can I sleep here , and have shelter for the night ? asked the youth . 
What kind of people are they then , who dwell here ? said the youth . 
I still think I will go to bed , all the same , said the youth . 
No matter what happens , I'll not go out to night in such weather as this . 
Well , then , it will be the worse for yourself , said the old woman . 
Did you see if he had any money ? said the robbers . 
He's not one to have money , he is a tramp ! If he has a few clothes to his back , that is all . 
Then the robbers began to mutter to each other apart about what they should do with him , whether they should murder him , or what else they should do . 
Yes , said they , if you have a mind to take to the trade that we follow , you may have a place here . 
Have you a fancy for stealing , then ? said the robbers . 
Yes , said the boy , for he thought that was a trade which would not take long to learn . 
Not very far off there dwelt a man who had three oxen , one of which he was to take to the town to sell . 
So the youth set off , taking with him a pretty shoe with a silver buckle that was lying about in the house . 
He put this in the road by which the man must go with his ox , and then went into the wood and hid himself under a bush . 
When the man came up he at once saw the shoe . 
That's a brave shoe , said he . 
If I had but the fellow to it , I would carry it home with me , and then I should put my old woman into a good humour for once . 
For he had a wife who was so cross and ill tempered that the time between the beatings she gave him was very short . 
But then he bethought himself that he could do nothing with one shoe if he had not the fellow to it , so he journeyed onwards and let it lie where it was . 
In the meantime the youth had taken the ox and gone off with it . 
So he did this he went home and took the ox without his wife's knowing about it , and went on his way to the town with it . 
But the robbers they knew it well , because they got out their magic . 
Well , that will not be a very hard thing to do , thought the youth . 
So the man came with his ox , and when he saw the body hanging there he felt a little queer . 
What a hard lot yours must have been to make you hang yourself ! said he . 
Ah , well ! you may hang there for me I can't breathe life into you again . 
So on he went with his ox . 
Ah , well ! you may hang there for me , whether you are a hobgoblin or not , and on he went with his ox . 
But when the man once more saw this he said to himself , What a bad business this is ! Can they all have been so heavy . 
So he tied up his ox and ran back to see if they really were hanging there . 
While he was going , and looking up at every tree as he went , the youth leapt down and took his ox and went off with it . 
Any one may easily imagine what a fury the man fell into when he came back and saw that his ox was gone . 
So he went home and took the third ox , and drove it off without his wife knowing anything about it . 
When the man heard that he was right glad , for he fancied he recognised the voice of his big bullock , and thought that now he should find both of them again . 
So he tied up the third , and ran away off the road to look for them in the wood . 
In the meantime the youth went away with the third ox . 
When the man returned and found that he had lost that too , he fell into such a rage that there was no bounds to it . 
He wept and lamented , and for many days he did not dare to go home again , for he was afraid that the old woman would slay him outright . 
The robbers , also , were not very well pleased at this , for they were forced to own that the youth was at the head of them all . 
After a long , long time he came to the road on which he was travelling when he came to the robbers . 
Then he entered the house and asked if he could find a lodging there . 
No , indeed you can't ! said his father . 
You were always a hard man , said the youth , and hard you are still if you refuse to let your own son come into your house . 
Are you my son ? said the man . 
Do you not know me again then ? said the youth . 
You said that I might take to anything I liked , so I apprenticed myself to some thieves and robbers , and now I have served my time and have become Master Thief . 
So the Master Thief was determined to have her to wife , and told his father that he was to go to the Governor , and ask for his daughter for him . 
If he asks what trade I follow , you may say that I am a Master Thief , said he . 
I think you must be crazy , said the man , for you can't be in your senses if you think of anything so foolish . 
You must go to the Governor and beg for his daughter there is no help , said the youth . 
But I dare not go to the Governor and say this . 
He is so rich and has so much wealth of all kinds , said the man . 
There is no help for it , said the Master Thief go you must , whether you like it or not . 
If I can't get you to go by using good words , I will soon make you go with bad ones . 
Now , my man , and what's amiss with you ? said the Governor . 
Console yourself , my man , said the Governor , laughing . 
You may tell him from me that he must first give me some proof of this . 
If he can steal the joint off the spit in the kitchen on Sunday , when every one of us is watching it , he shall have my daughter . 
Will you tell him that ? The man did tell him , and the youth thought it would be easy enough to do it . 
The Governor himself and every one in the house was in the kitchen , keeping watch over the joint . 
While they were doing this the youth let one of the hares slip out of his bag , and off it set and began to run round the yard . 
Just look at that hare , said the people in the kitchen , and wanted to go out and catch it . 
The Governor saw it too , but said , Oh , let it go ! it's no use to think of catching a hare when it's running away . 
It was not long before the youth let another hare out , and the people in the kitchen saw this too , and thought that it was the same . 
So again they wanted to go out and catch it , but the Governor again told them that it was of no use to try . 
Very soon afterwards , however , the youth let slip the third hare , and it set off and ran round and round the courtyard . 
The people in the kitchen saw this too , and believed that it was still the same hare that was running about , so they wanted to go out and catch it . 
It's a remarkably fine hare ! said the Governor . 
Come and let us see if we can get hold of it . 
So out he went , and the others with him , and away went the hare , and they after it , in real earnest . 
At noon came the Priest , and when the Governor had told him of the trick played by the Master Thief there was no end to the ridicule he cast on the Governor . 
But the Priest repeated what he had said , and mocked the Governor for having allowed himself to be made such a fool of . 
Later in the afternoon the Master Thief came and wanted to have the Governor's daughter as he had promised . 
Well , it wouldn't be very hard to do that , said the Master Thief . 
So when the Priest returned home in the evening the youth began to cry , Father Lawrence ! Father Lawrence ! for the Priest was called Father Lawrence . 
Who is calling me ? said the Priest . 
I am an angel sent to announce to thee that because of thy piety thou shalt be taken away alive into heaven , said the Master Thief . 
Oh ! oh ! cried the Priest in the sack . 
Where are you taking me ? This is the way to heaven . 
The way to heaven is not an easy one , said the Master Thief , and dragged him along till he all but killed him . 
At last he flung him into the Governor's goose house , and the geese began to hiss and peck at him , till he felt more dead than alive . 
Oh ! oh ! oh ! Where am I now ? asked the Priest . 
Next morning , when the goose girl came to let out the geese , she heard the Priest bemoaning himself as he lay in the sack in the goose house . 
Oh , heavens ! who is that , and what ails you ? said she . 
I am no angel , said the girl , and helped the Priest out of the sack . 
I only look after the Governor's geese , that's what I do , and they are the little fiends which have pinched your reverence . 
I have twelve horses in my stable , and I will put twelve stable boys in it , one on each horse . 
If you are clever enough to steal the horses from under them , I will see what I can do for you . 
Then he engaged eleven men to lie that night in hiding behind the Governor's stable . 
The stable boys were just watering the horses for the night , and it was quite as much as they could do to attend to that . 
What on earth do you want here ? said one of them to the old woman . 
Oh dear ! oh dear ! How cold it is ! she said , sobbing , and shivering with cold . 
Oh ! what a poor helpless old creature ! said another , who felt sorry for her . 
That poor old woman can do no harm to anyone . 
She may sit there and welcome . 
As the night wore on the stable boys found it rather cold work to sit still on horseback . 
Hutetu ! But it is fearfully cold ! said one , and began to beat his arms backwards and forwards across his breast . 
Yes , I am so cold that my teeth are chattering , said another . 
If one had but a little tobacco , said a third . 
Well , one of them had a little , so they shared it among them , though there was very little for each man , but they chewed it . 
This was some help to them , but very soon they were just as cold as before . 
Hutetu ! said one of them , shivering again . 
What is that you have in your flask , old woman ? asked one of the stable boys . 
Oh , it's only a little drop of brandy , your honour , she said . 
Brandy ! What ! Let me have a drop ! Let me have a drop ! screamed all the twelve at once . 
Oh , but what I have is so little , whimpered the old woman . 
It will not even wet your mouths . 
In the morning when the Governor came to look after his stable boys they were just beginning to come to again . 
They were driving their spurs into the partition till the splinters flew about , and some of the boys fell off , and some still hung on and sat looking like fools . 
Later in the day the Master Thief came and related what he had done , and wanted to have the Governor's daughter as had been promised . 
But the Governor gave him a hundred dollars , and said that he must do something that was better still . 
Do you think you can steal my horse from under me when I am out riding on it ? said he . 
Well , it might be done , said the Master Thief , if I were absolutely certain that I should get your daughter . 
When the Master Thief got there the mare went along so slowly and quietly that the cart hardly seemed to move from the spot . 
The mare pulled it a little forward , and then a little back , and then it stopped quite short . 
Then the mare pulled a little forward again , and it moved with such difficulty that the Governor had not the least idea that this was the Master Thief . 
He rode straight up to him , and asked if he had seen anyone hiding anywhere about in a wood that was close by . 
No , said the man , that have I not . 
Hark you , said the Governor . 
Oh , just ride off , said the Governor , and I will look after the cask and the horse too . 
So the Governor said that he would do his very best , and the Master Thief got on the Governor's horse . 
Now I shall have ten dollars more ! cried the old woman inside the cask so he soon saw what kind of mead it was , and set out homewards . 
When he had gone a very little way he met his servant bringing him the horse , for the Master Thief had already taken it home . 
The following day he went to the Governor and wanted to have his daughter according to promise . 
Well , the Master Thief thought he might if he could hear what it was . 
Do you think you can steal the sheet off our bed , and my wife's night gown ? said the Governor . 
That is by no means impossible , said the Master Thief . 
I only wish I could get your daughter as easily . 
So late at night the Master Thief went and cut down a thief who was hanging on the gallows , laid him on his own shoulders , and took him away with him . 
There's the Master Thief , mother ! said the Governor , nudging his wife . 
Now I'll just shoot him , that I will ! So he took up a rifle which he had laid at his bedside . 
Oh no , you must not do that , said his wife you yourself arranged that he was to come here . 
Just do what you think best , father , said his wife . 
So the Governor got up and went downstairs , and as soon as he had gone out through the door , the Master Thief stole in and went straight upstairs to the woman . 
Well , father dear , said she , for she thought it was her husband . 
So she gave him the sheet . 
You will have to let me have your night gown too , he said , for I begin to see that the sheet won't be enough . 
So off he went with the sheet , and the night gown too . 
An hour later the real Governor returned . 
Oh , I am asking you what you have done with the night gown and sheet that you got to wipe the blood off yourself with , said she . 
BROTHER AND SISTER BROTHER took sister by the hand and said Look here we haven't had one single happy hour since our mother died . 
That stepmother of ours beats us regularly every day , and if we dare go near her she kicks us away . 
We never get anything but hard dry crusts to eat why , the dog under the table is better off than we are . 
She does throw him a good morsel or two now and then . 
Oh dear ! if our own dear mother only knew all about it ! Come along , and let us go forth into the wide world together . 
Next morning , when they woke up , the sun was already high in the heavens and was shining down bright and warm into the tree . 
Then said brother I'm so thirsty , sister if I did but know where to find a little stream , I'd go and have a drink . 
I do believe I hear one . 
He jumped up , took sister by the hand , and they set off to hunt for the brook . 
Now their cruel stepmother was in reality a witch , and she knew perfectly well that the two children had run away . 
She had crept secretly after them , and had cast her spells over all the streams in the forest . 
Brother was dreadfully thirsty , but he did not drink . 
Very well , said he , I'll wait till we come to the next spring . 
Sister cried bitterly over her poor bewitched brother , and the little Roe wept too , and sat sadly by her side . 
At last the girl said Never mind , dear little fawn , I will never forsake you , and she took off her golden garter and tied it round the Roe's neck . 
Then she plucked rushes and plaited a soft cord of them , which she fastened to the collar . 
When she had done this she led the Roe farther and farther , right into the depths of the forest . 
And he fed from her hand , and played round her and seemed quite happy . 
In the evening , when sister was tired , she said her prayers and then laid her head on the fawn's back and fell sound asleep with it as a pillow . 
And if brother had but kept his natural form , really it would have been a most delightful kind of life . 
They had been living for some time in the forest in this way , when it came to pass that the King of that country had a great hunt through the woods . 
Ah ! said he to sister , do let me go off to the hunt ! I can't keep still any longer . 
And he begged and prayed till at last she consented . 
But , said she , mind you come back in the evening . 
'' If you don't speak I shan't open the door . 
So off sprang the little Roe , and he felt quite well and happy in the free open air . 
When night came on it ran home , and knocking at the door of the little house cried My sister dear , open I'm here . 
The door opened , and he ran in and rested all night on his soft mossy bed . 
So sister opened the door and said , Now mind and get back by nightfall , and say your little rhyme . 
As soon as the King and his huntsmen saw the Roe with the golden collar they all rode off after it , but it was far too quick and nimble for them . 
The huntsman remembered all this carefully , and went off straight to the King and told him all he had seen and heard . 
To morrow we will hunt again , said the King . 
Poor sister was terribly frightened when she saw how her little Fawn had been wounded . 
She washed off the blood , bound up the injured foot with herbs , and said Now , dear , go and lie down and rest , so that your wound may heal . 
The wound was really so slight that it was quite well next day , and the little Roe did not feel it at all . 
No sooner did it hear the sounds of hunting in the forest than it cried I can't stand this , I must be there too I'll take care they shan't catch me . 
Sister began to cry , and said , They are certain to kill you , and then I shall be left all alone in the forest and forsaken by everyone . 
I can't and won't let you out . 
Then I shall die of grief , replied the Roe , for when I hear that horn I feel as if I must jump right out of my skin . 
When the sun had set the King said to his huntsman , Now come and show me the little house in the wood . 
And when he got to the house he knocked at the door and said , My sister dear , open I'm here . 
Then the door opened and the King walked in , and there stood the loveliest maiden he had ever seen . 
The girl was much startled when instead of the little Roe she expected she saw a man with a gold crown on his head walk in . 
I could not possibly forsake it . 
It shall stay with you as long as you live , and shall want for nothing , the King promised . 
The King lifted the lonely maiden on to his horse , and led her to his castle , where the wedding was celebrated with the greatest splendour . 
The Roe was petted and caressed , and ran about at will in the palace gardens . 
Be quiet , will you , said the old woman when the time comes I shall be at hand . 
Now after some time it happened one day when the King was out hunting that the Queen gave birth to a beautiful little boy . 
Come , let us be quick , for fear the water should get cold . 
They took care beforehand to make a blazing hot fire under the bath , so that the lovely young Queen might be suffocated . 
As soon as they were sure this was the case , the old witch tied a cap on her daughter's head and laid her in the Queen's bed . 
But the old witch cried out , Take care and keep the curtains drawn don't let the light get into the Queen's eyes she must be kept perfectly quiet . 
So the King went away and never knew that it was a false Queen who lay in the bed . 
She lifted the child from its cradle , laid it on her arm , and nursed it for some time . 
Then she carefully shook up the pillows of the little bed , laid the baby down and tucked the coverlet in all round him . 
She did not forget the little Roe either , but went to the corner where it lay , and gently stroked its back . 
For many nights the Queen came in the same way , but she never spoke a word , and the nurse was too frightened to say anything about her visits . 
After some little time had elapsed the Queen spoke one night , and said Is my child well ? Is my Roe well ? I'll come back twice and then farewell . 
The nurse made no answer , but as soon as the Queen had disappeared she went to the King and told him all . 
The King exclaimed , Good heavens ! what do you say ? I will watch myself to night by the child's bed . 
And she nursed and petted the child as usual before she disappeared . 
The King dared not trust himself to speak to her , but the following night he kept watch again . 
That night when the Queen came she said Is my child well ? Is my Roe well ? I've come this once , and now farewell . 
Then she told the King all the cruel things the wicked witch and her daughter had done . 
The King had them both arrested at once and brought to trial , and they were condemned to death . 
The daughter was led into the forest , where the wild beasts tore her to pieces , and the old witch was burnt at the stake . 
When it was over , and they were preparing to go away , the Queen said to them Do not forget your usual good custom . 
Tell me what is going to happen to Rosette . 
For that was the name they had given the Princess . 
But the fairies said they had left their book of magic at home , and they would come another day and tell her . 
Ah ! said the Queen , I know very well what that means you have nothing good to say but at least I beg that you will not hide anything from me . 
We are very sorry to have nothing better to tell you . 
Then they went away , leaving the Queen very sad , so sad that the King noticed it , and asked her what was the matter . 
The Queen said that she had been sitting too near the fire , and had burnt all the flax that was upon her distaff . 
Oh ! is that all ? said the King , and he went up into the garret and brought her down more flax than she could spin in a hundred years . 
But the Queen still looked sad , and the King asked her again what was the matter . 
She answered that she had been walking by the river and had dropped one of her green satin slippers into the water . 
So the King asked her again what was the matter , and this time she answered that in eating her porridge too hastily she had swallowed her wedding ring . 
At first when he saw them coming he was vexed , for he was not fond of ladies but when he recognised the Queen , he said You are welcome , Queen . 
The Queen thanked and rewarded him , and hastened back to the castle to tell the King . 
The eldest brother was called the Great Prince , and the second the Little Prince . 
Everybody was sorry , Rosette especially , and all the bells in the kingdom were tolled . 
The new King and his brother said to one another Now that we are the masters , let us take our sister out of that dull tower which she is so tired of . 
They had only to go across the garden to reach the tower , which was very high , and stood up in a corner . 
Rosette was busy at her embroidery , but when she saw her brothers she got up , and taking the King's hand cried Good morning , dear brother . 
Now that you are King , please take me out of this dull tower , for I am so tired of it . 
Rosette thought she had never seen anything so pretty . 
She could not take her eyes off him , and there she stood entranced until the King and the Prince came up and asked what was amusing her so much . 
She showed them the peacock , and asked what it was , and they answered that it was a bird which people sometimes ate . 
At this the King was very much astonished . 
Meanwhile the King and the Prince were considering how they should find the King of the Peacocks , if there was such a person in the world . 
And first of all they had a portrait made of the Princess , which was so like her that you really would not have been surprised if it had spoken to you . 
Then they said to her Since you will not marry anyone but the King of the Peacocks , we are going out together into the wide world to search for him . 
If we find him for you we shall be very glad . 
In the meantime , mind you take good care of our kingdom . 
So they set out , and asked everyone they met Do you know the King of the Peacocks ? But the answer was always , No , no . 
Then they went on and on , so far that no one has ever been farther , and at last they came to the Kingdom of the Cockchafers . 
They had never before seen such a number of cockchafers , and the buzzing was so loud that the King was afraid he should be deafened by it . 
He asked the most distinguished looking cockchafer they met if he knew where they could find the King of the Peacocks . 
Sire , replied the cockchafer , his kingdom is thirty thousand leagues from this you have come the longest way . 
And how do you know that ? said the King . 
Oh ! said the cockchafer , we all know you very well , since we spend two or three months in your garden every year . 
Then they set out again to finish their journey , and this time , as they knew the way , they were not long upon the road . 
They soon met the King , who was driving about in a beautiful little golden carriage which glittered with diamonds , and was drawn at full speed by twelve peacocks . 
The King and the Prince were delighted to see that the King of the Peacocks was as handsome as possible . 
He had curly golden hair and was very pale , and he wore a crown of peacocks' feathers . 
When he saw Rosette's brothers he knew at once that they were strangers , and stopping his carriage he sent for them to speak to him . 
When they had greeted him they said Sire , we have come from very far away to show you a beautiful portrait . 
So saying they drew from their travelling bag the picture of Rosette . 
I think you must be making fun of me , replied the King of the Peacocks . 
Sire , said the Prince , my brother is a King , like yourself . 
He is called the King , '' I am called the Prince , '' and that is the portrait of our sister , the Princess Rosette . 
We have come to ask if you would like to marry her . 
She is as good as she is beautiful , and we will give her a bushel of gold pieces for her dowry . 
Oh ! with all my heart , replied the King , and I will make her very happy . 
Oh ! certainly , we quite agree to that , said the brothers in one breath . 
Off with you into prison , and stay there until the Princess arrives , said the King of the Peacocks . 
And the Princes were so sure that Rosette was far prettier than her portrait that they went without a murmur . 
They were very kindly treated , and that they might not feel dull the King came often to see them . 
As for Rosette's portrait that was taken up to the palace , and the King did nothing but gaze at it all day and all night . 
When Rosette received the letter she was so delighted that she ran about telling everyone that the King of the Peacocks was found , and she was going to marry him . 
Guns were fired , and fireworks let off . 
Everyone had as many cakes and sweetmeats as he wanted . 
And for three days everybody who came to see the Princess was presented with a slice of bread and jam , a nightingale's egg , and some hippocras . 
Then she set out , only taking with her her nurse , and the nurse's daughter , and the little green dog Frisk . 
And he answered Very soon , very soon . 
Then the nurse said Will you take us ? will you take us ? And the boatman answered Yes , yes . 
Then she whispered in his ear Do you want to make your fortune ? And he said Certainly I do . 
I can tell you how to get a bag of gold , said she . 
I ask nothing better , said the boatman . 
He barked so long and so loud that he woke all the other fish , who came swimming up round the Princess's bed , and poking at it with their great heads . 
Let us make haste to land , for we must be quite near the city of the King of the Peacocks . 
The King had sent a hundred carriages to meet them , drawn by every kind of strange animal . 
There were lions , bears , wolves , stags , horses , buffaloes , eagles , and peacocks . 
The carriage intended for the Princess Rosette had six blue monkeys , which could turn summer saults , and dance on a tight rope , and do many other charming tricks . 
Their , harness was all of crimson velvet with gold buckles , and behind the carriage walked sixty beautiful ladies chosen by the King to wait upon Rosette and amuse her . 
The nurse had taken all the pains imaginable to deck out her daughter . 
She put on her Rosette's prettiest frock , and covered her with diamonds from head to foot . 
But she was so ugly that nothing could make her look nice , and what was worse , she was sulky and ill tempered , and did nothing but grumble all the time . 
When she stepped from the boat and the escort sent by the King of the Peacocks caught sight of her , they were so surprised that they could not say a single word . 
Now then , look alive , cried the false Princess . 
As the procession was so long it advanced but slowly , and the nurse's daughter sat up in her carriage trying to look like a Queen . 
But the peacocks only flew away , laughing at her . 
The rogue of a boatman , who noticed all this , said softly to the nurse This is a bad business for us , gossip your daughter ought to have been prettier . 
But she answered Be quiet , stupid , or you will spoil everything . 
Now they told the King that the Princess was approaching . 
That's true , said the King I for one shall be quite satisfied if she is . 
Let us go and meet her . 
For they knew by the uproar that she had arrived , but they could not tell what all the shouting was about . 
The King thought he could hear the words How ugly she is ! How ugly she is ! and he fancied they must refer to some dwarf the Princess was bringing with her . 
It never occurred to him that they could apply to the bride herself . 
The Princess Rosette's portrait was carried at the head of the procession , and after it walked the King surrounded by his courtiers . 
He was all impatience to see the lovely Princess , but when he caught sight of the nurse's daughter he was furiously angry , and would not advance another step . 
For she was really ugly enough to have frightened anybody . 
Meanwhile the King and the Prince , who knew that their sister must have arrived , had made themselves smart , and sat expecting every minute to be summoned to greet her . 
This is a dismal kind of wedding , they said what can have happened that we should be treated like this ? They must mean to kill us . 
And this idea annoyed them very much . 
Three days passed before they heard any news , and then the King of the Peacocks came and berated them through a hole in the wall . 
You have called yourselves King and Prince , he cried , to try and make me marry your sister , but you are nothing but beggars , not worth the water you drink . 
I am as good a King as yourself , and have a splendid kingdom and robes and crowns , and plenty of good red gold to do what I like with . 
While all this was going on at court , let us see what had been happening to the real Princess . 
When the day broke she and Frisk were equally astonished at finding themselves alone upon the sea , with no boat and no one to help them . 
The Princess cried and cried , until even the fishes were sorry for her . 
Alas ! she said , the King of the Peacocks must have ordered me to be thrown into the sea because he had changed his mind and did not want to marry me . 
, and he went out to see if he could be of any use . 
The old man saw that Rosette must be some great lady , for her bed coverings were all of satin and gold . 
He begged that she would tell him all her history , as she might safely trust him . 
The Princess told him everything , weeping bitterly again at the thought that it was by the King's orders that she had been thrown overboard . 
And now , my daughter , what is to be done ? said the old man . 
You are a great Princess , accustomed to fare daintily , and I have nothing to offer you but black bread and radishes , which will not suit you at all . 
Shall I go and tell the King of the Peacocks that you are here ? If he sees you he will certainly wish to marry you . 
Oh no ! cried Rosette , he must be wicked , since he tried to drown me . 
Don't let us tell him , but if you have a little basket give it to me . 
So Frisk went back and filled his basket with white bread , and red wine , and every kind of sweetmeat , until it was almost too heavy for him to carry . 
When the King of the Peacocks wanted his dinner there was nothing in the pot and nothing in the pantry . 
All the courtiers looked at one another in dismay , and the King was terribly cross . 
Oh well ! he said , if there is no dinner I cannot dine , but take care that plenty of things are roasted for supper . 
When evening came the Princess said to Frisk Go into the town and find out the best kitchen , and bring me all the nicest morsels that are being roasted upon the spit . 
He carried his basket to the Princess , who at once sent him back to the pantry to bring all the tarts and sugar plums that had been prepared for the King's supper . 
The King , who was very much astonished , said he should like to go and see for himself . 
So he set out , accompanied by the Prime Minister and a guard of archers , and arrived just in time to find the old man and the Princess finishing his dinner . 
The King ordered that they should be seized and bound with ropes , and Frisk also . 
Then the old man went down on his knees before the King and begged for time to tell him everything . 
As soon as they came in Rosette ran to embrace her brothers , while the traitors threw themselves down before her and begged for mercy . 
THE ENCHANTED PIG ONCE upon a time there lived a King who had three daughters . 
Now it happened that he had to go out to battle , so he called his daughters and said to them My dear children , I am obliged to go to the wars . 
The enemy is approaching us with a large army . 
It is a great grief to me to leave you all . 
During my absence take care of yourselves and be good girls behave well and look after everything in the house . 
You may keep your mind easy , father , they replied . 
We have never been disobedient to you . 
His daughters kissed his hands with tears in their eyes , and wished him prosperity , and he gave the eldest the keys . 
Now when the girls found themselves alone they felt so sad and dull that they did not know what to do . 
As long as they did this all went well with them . 
But this happy state of things did not last long . 
Every day they grew more and more curious , and you will see what the end of that was . 
Sisters , said the eldest Princess , all day long we sew , spin , and read . 
We have been several days quite alone , and there is no corner of the garden that we have not explored . 
When he told us not to go into that room he must have known what he was saying , and have had a good reason for saying it . 
Surely the sky won't fall about our heads if we DO go in , said the second Princess . 
Dragons and such like monsters that would devour us will not be hidden in the room . 
Then the second girl stepped forward , and turning over the page she read The second daughter of this King will marry a prince from the West . 
The girls were delighted , and laughed and teased each other . 
But the youngest Princess did not want to go near the table or to open the book . 
Now if a thunderbolt had fallen upon her from heaven it would not have frightened her more . 
She almost died of misery , and if her sisters had not held her up , she would have sunk to the ground and cut her head open . 
Besides , the thought weighed on her heart that she had been guilty of disobeying her father . 
She gave up playing with her sisters in the garden , ceased to gather flowers to put in her hair , and never sang when they sat together at their spinning and sewing . 
Everyone went out to meet him with cymbals and fifes and drums , and there was great rejoicing over his victorious return . 
The King's first act on reaching home was to thank Heaven for the victory he had gained over the enemies who had risen against him . 
He then entered his palace , and the three Princesses stepped forward to meet him . 
His joy was great when he saw that they were all well , for the youngest did her best not to appear sad . 
In spite of this , however , it was not long before the King noticed that his third daughter was getting very thin and sad looking . 
And all of a sudden he felt as if a hot iron were entering his soul , for it flashed through his mind that she had disobeyed his word . 
He felt sure he was right but to be quite certain he called his daughters to him , questioned them , and ordered them to speak the truth . 
They confessed everything , but took good care not to say which had led the other two into temptation . 
The King was so distressed when he heard it that he was almost overcome by grief . 
But he took heart and tried to comfort his daughters , who looked frightened to death . 
He saw that what had happened had happened , and that a thousand words would not alter matters by a hair's breadth . 
Well , these events had almost been forgotten when one fine day a prince from the East appeared at the Court and asked the King for the hand of his eldest daughter . 
The King gladly gave his consent . 
A great wedding banquet was prepared , and after three days of feasting the happy pair were accompanied to the frontier with much ceremony and rejoicing . 
After some time the same thing befell the second daughter , who was wooed and won by a prince from the West . 
Now when the young Princess saw that everything fell out exactly as had been written in the book , she grew very sad . 
She refused to eat , and would not put on her fine clothes nor go out walking , and declared that she would rather die than become a laughing stock to the world . 
But the King would not allow her to do anything so wrong , and he comforted her in all possible ways . 
Now the King was astonished to hear so fine a speech from a Pig , and at once it occurred to him that something strange was the matter . 
The King then sent for his daughter , and advised her to submit to fate , as there was nothing else to be done . 
And he added My child , the words and whole behaviour of this Pig are quite unlike those of other pigs . 
I do not myself believe that he always was a pig . 
Depend upon it some magic or witchcraft has been at work . 
Obey him , and do everything that he wishes , and I feel sure that Heaven will shortly send you release . 
If you wish me to do this , dear father , I will do it , replied the girl . 
In the meantime the wedding day drew near . 
After the marriage , the Pig and his bride set out for his home in one of the royal carriages . 
What was the poor girl to do ? She bethought herself of her father's words , and , pulling out her pocket handkerchief , she gently wiped the Pig's snout and kissed it . 
By the time they reached the Pig's dwelling , which stood in a thick wood , it was quite dark . 
They sat down quietly for a little , as they were tired after their drive then they had supper together , and lay down to rest . 
During the night the Princess noticed that the Pig had changed into a man . 
She was not a little surprised , but remembering her father's words , she took courage , determined to wait and see what would happen . 
And now she noticed that every night the Pig became a man , and every morning he was changed into a Pig before she awoke . 
This happened several nights running , and the Princess could not understand it at all . 
Clearly her husband must be bewitched . 
In time she grew quite fond of him , he was so kind and gentle . 
One fine day as she was sitting alone she saw an old witch go past . 
She felt quite excited , as it was so long since she had seen a human being , and she called out to the old woman to come and talk to her . 
Among other things the witch told her that she understood all magic arts , and that she could foretell the future , and knew the healing powers of herbs and plants . 
I shall be grateful to you all my life , old dame , said the Princess , if you will tell me what is the matter with my husband . 
If you like , I will give you a herb to break the spell . 
I do not want any reward . 
I shall be sufficiently repaid by knowing that you are happy . 
It almost breaks my heart to think of all you have suffered , and I only wish I had known it sooner , as I should have come to your rescue at once . 
Just as she was pulling the knot tight there was a crack , and the thread broke , for it was rotten . 
At last , wearied with her long journey and worn out and overcome with sorrow , but still with hope at her heart , she reached a house . 
Now who do you think lived there ? The Moon . 
The Princess knocked at the door , and begged to be let in that she might rest a little . 
The mother of the Moon , when she saw her sad plight , felt a great pity for her , and took her in and nursed and tended her . 
And while she was here the Princess had a little baby . 
Sometimes she would rest for a little on a mountain , and then start afresh always farther and farther on . 
At length , wearied to death , she reached the palace in which the Sun lived . 
She knocked and begged for admission . 
The next day the Princess feared that things would not go well with her , for the Sun had noticed that some one from the other world had been in the palace . 
But his mother had soothed him with soft words , assuring him that this was not so . 
This is how it happens , replied the Sun's mother . 
From there he comes back here . 
The poor woman nearly died of these hardships , but she kept a brave heart , and at length she reached an enormous cave in the side of a mountain . 
This was where the Wind lived . 
There was a little door in the railing in front of the cave , and here the Princess knocked and begged for admission . 
The mother of the Wind had pity on her and took her in , that she might rest a little . 
Here too she was hidden away , so that the Wind might not notice her . 
On and on she walked until her last pair of shoes fell in pieces . 
So she threw them away and went on with bare feet , not heeding the bogs nor the thorns that wounded her , nor the stones that bruised her . 
At last she reached a beautiful green meadow on the edge of a wood . 
Her heart was cheered by the sight of the flowers and the soft cool grass , and she sat down and rested for a little . 
For three days and three nights she struggled through it , but could find nothing . 
She was quite worn out with weariness and hunger , and even her staff was no further help to her , for in her many wanderings it had become quite blunted . 
It had no windows , and the door was up in the roof . 
Round the house she went , in search of steps , but could find none . 
What was she to do ? How was she to get in ? She thought and thought , and tried in vain to climb up to the door . 
Perhaps now , in my hour of need , they may be of use to me . 
So she took the bones out of her bundle , and having thought for a moment , she placed the two ends together . 
Across them she placed the other bones , piece by piece , like the steps of a ladder . 
As soon as one step was finished she stood upon it and made the next one , and then the next , till she was close to the door . 
But just as she got near the top she noticed that there were no bones left for the last rung of the ladder . 
What was she to do ? Without that last step the whole ladder was useless . 
She must have lost one of the bones . 
Then suddenly an idea came to her . 
Taking a knife she chopped off her little finger , and placing it on the last step , it stuck as the bones had done . 
The ladder was complete , and with her child on her arm she entered the door of the house . 
Here she found everything in perfect order . 
Having taken some food , she laid the child down to sleep in a trough that was on the floor , and sat down herself to rest . 
When her husband , the Pig , came back to his house , he was startled by what he saw . 
At first he could not believe his eyes , and stared at the ladder of bones , and at the little finger on the top of it . 
Here he found a woman rocking a child . 
The Princess stood up when she saw him . 
and her heart beat with fear , for she did not know him . 
But when he had told her who he was , in her great joy she forgot all her sufferings , and they seemed as nothing to her . 
He was a very handsome man , as straight as a fir tree . 
They sat down together and she told him all her adventures , and he wept with pity at the tale . 
And then he told her his own history . 
I am a King's son . 
Once when my father was fighting against some dragons , who were the scourge of our country , I slew the youngest dragon . 
His mother , who was a witch , cast a spell over me and changed me into a Pig . 
It was she who in the disguise of an old woman gave you the thread to bind round my foot . 
So that instead of the three days that had to run before the spell was broken , I was forced to remain a Pig for three more years . 
Now that we have suffered for each other , and have found each other again , let us forget the past . 
And in their joy they kissed one another . 
Next morning they set out early to return to his father's kingdom . 
Then they set out to see her father . 
The old King nearly went out of his mind with joy at beholding his daughter again . 
And as the King was old and had no heirs , he put them on the throne in his place . 
And they ruled as only kings rule who have suffered many things . 
And if they are not dead they are still living and ruling happily . 
Rumanische Marchen ubersetzt von Nite Kremnitz . 
THE NORKA ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen . 
They had three sons , two of them with their wits about them , but the third a simpleton . 
Now the King had a deer park in which were quantities of wild animals of different kinds . 
Into that park there used to come a huge beast Norka was its name and do fearful mischief , devouring some of the animals every night . 
The King did all he could , but he was unable to destroy it . 
So at last he called his sons together and said , Whoever will destroy the Norka , to him will I give the half of my kingdom . 
Well , the eldest son undertook the task . 
As soon as it was night , he took his weapons and set out . 
, and there he spent the whole night in revelry . 
When he came to his senses it was too late the day had already dawned . 
He felt himself disgraced in the eyes of his father , but there was no help for it . 
The next day the second son went , and did just the same . 
Their father scolded them both soundly , and there was an end of it . 
Well , on the third day the youngest son undertook the task . 
They all laughed him to scorn , because he was so stupid , feeling sure he wouldn't do anything . 
Presently the midnight hour sounded . 
The earth began to shake , and the Norka came rushing up , and burst right through the fence into the park , so huge was it . 
The Prince pulled himself together , leapt to his feet , crossed himself , and went straight at the beast . 
It fled back , and the Prince ran after it . 
But he soon saw that he couldn't catch it on foot , so he hastened to the stable , laid his hands on the best horse there , and set off in pursuit . 
Presently he came up with the beast , and they began a fight . 
They fought and fought the Prince gave the beast three wounds . 
At last they were both utterly exhausted , so they lay down to take a short rest . 
But the moment the Prince closed his eyes , up jumped the beast and took to flight . 
The Prince's horse awoke him up he jumped in a moment , and set off again in pursuit , caught up the beast , and again began fighting with it . 
Again the Prince gave the beast three wounds , and then he and the beast lay down again to rest . 
Thereupon away fled the beast as before . 
The Prince caught it up , and again gave it three wounds . 
The Prince went home , told his father all that had happened , and asked him to have a leather rope plaited , long enough to reach to the other world . 
His father ordered this to be done . 
When they got there , they built a palace on the spot , and lived in it for some time . 
His brothers lowered him accordingly , and when he had reached the other world , underneath the earth , he went on his way . 
He entered the courtyard , tied up his horse , and went indoors . 
In one of the rooms a dinner was laid out . 
He sat down and dined , and then went into a bedroom . 
There he found a bed , on which he lay down to rest . 
He is staying just now with my second sister , who lives not far from here in a silver palace . 
I bound up three of the wounds which thou didst give him . 
She told him that her brother Norka was then at her youngest sister's . 
So he went on to the youngest sister , who lived in a golden palace . 
And when he had heard these things , he went his way . 
The Prince crossed himself , went up to it , and smote it on the head with his sword . 
The head jumped off , saying the while , Well , I'm done for now ! and rolled far away into the sea . 
And then they all went to the place from which they had to be hoisted into the upper world . 
And when they came to where the rope was , the Prince took hold of it and made the maidens fast to it . 
Then he jerked away at the rope and his brothers began to haul it up . 
Perhaps he'll be killed but then if he isn't , he'll never give us these beauties as wives . 
So when they had agreed on this , they lowered the rope . 
But their brother was no fool he guessed what they were at , so he fastened the rope to a stone , and then gave it a pull . 
His brothers hoisted the stone to a great height , and then cut the rope . 
Down fell the stone and broke in pieces the Prince poured forth tears and went away . 
Well , he walked and walked . 
Presently a storm arose the lightning flashed , the thunder roared , the rain fell in torrents . 
He went up to a tree in order to take shelter under it , and on that tree he saw some young birds which were being thoroughly drenched . 
So he took off his coat and covered them over with it , and he himself sat down under the tree . 
Presently there came flying a bird such a big one that the light was blotted out by it . 
It had been dark there before , but now it became darker still . 
Now this was the mother of those small birds which the Prince had covered up . 
I will do anything for thee . 
Then carry me into the other world , he replied . 
All this the Prince did . 
Then the bird having taken the vessel on her back , with the Prince sitting in the middle of it began to fly . 
And after flying some distance she brought him to his journey's end , took leave of him , and flew away back . 
But he went to the house of a certain tailor , and engaged himself as his servant . 
So much the worse for wear was he , so thoroughly had he altered in appearance , that nobody would have suspected him of being a Prince . 
Having entered into the service of this master , the Prince began to ask what was going on in that country . 
And his master replied Our two Princes for the third one has disappeared have brought away brides from the other world , and want to marry them , but those brides refuse . 
The King has called all the workmen together , but not one of them will undertake to do it . 
The Prince , having heard all this , said , Go to the King , master , and tell him that you will provide everything that's in your line . 
However can I undertake to make clothes of that sort ? I work for quite common folks , says his master . 
Go along , master ! I will answer for everything , says the Prince . 
The King was delighted that at least one good workman had been found , and gave him as much money as ever he wanted . 
When his tailor had settled everything , he went home . 
And the Prince said to him Now then , pray to God , and lie down to sleep to morrow all will be ready . 
And the tailor followed his lad's advice , and went to bed . 
Into each of these he entered , took the maidens' robes , went out again , turned the palaces back into eggs , and went home . 
And when he got there he hung up the robes on the wall , and lay down to sleep . 
Early in the morning his master awoke , and behold ! there hung such robes as he had never seen before , all shining with gold and silver and precious stones . 
He was delighted , and he seized them and carried them off to the King . 
And the master , having handed over the clothes , went home , but he no longer found his dear journeyman there . 
Then they wept bitterly because the Prince had not come , and it was impossible for them to hold out any longer it was necessary that they should be married . 
But when they were ready for the wedding , the youngest bride said to the King Allow me , my father , to go and give alms to the beggars . 
He gave her leave , and she went and began bestowing alms upon them , and examining them closely . 
So she seized him by the hand , and brought him into the hall , and said to the King Here is he who brought us out of the other world . 
His brothers forbade us to say that he was alive , threatening to slay us if we did . 
Then the King was wroth with those sons , and punished them as he thought best . 
And afterwards three weddings were celebrated . 
THE WONDERFUL BIRCH ONCE upon a time there were a man and a woman , who had an only daughter . 
Now it happened that one of their sheep went astray , and they set out to look for it , and searched and searched , each in n different part of the wood . 
The woman neither spat , nor did she run between her legs , but yet the witch changed her into a sheep . 
When they were safe at home the witch said to the man Look here , old man , we must really kill that sheep lest it run away to the wood again . 
The man , who was a peaceable quiet sort of fellow , made no objections , but simply said Good , let us do so . 
Shortly after this they took the black sheep from the flock and slaughtered it . 
The witch made pease soup of it , and set it before the daughter . 
But the girl remembered her mother's warning . 
And so they drove into the King's feast all the outcasts , and the maimed , and the halt , and the blind . 
In the good man's house , too , preparations were made to go to the palace . 
So the man took the child and set out . 
Do not weep , said her mother consolingly . 
Break off one of my branches , and strike the hearth with it crosswise , and all will be put right . 
She struck the hearth with the birchen branch , and lo ! the barleycorns flew into the pot , and the hearth was clean . 
Then she went back to the birch tree and laid the branch upon the grave . 
Then her mother bade her bathe on one side of the stem , dry herself on another , and dress on the third . 
When the girl had done all that , she had grown so lovely that no one on earth could rival her . 
Splendid clothing was given to her , and a horse , with hair partly of gold , partly of silver , and partly of something more precious still . 
The girl sprang into the saddle , and rode as swift as an arrow to the palace . 
As she turned into the courtyard of the castle the King's son came out to meet her , tied her steed to a pillar , and led her in . 
At the banquet the Prince invited her to sit next him in the place of honour but the witch's daughter gnawed the bones under the table . 
The Prince did not see her , and thinking it was a dog , he gave her such a push with his foot that her arm was broken . 
Are you not sorry for the witch's daughter ? It was not her fault that her mother was a witch . 
She did not take time to pull it off , but , hastily unfastening her horse from the pillar , she rode away beyond the castle walls as swift as an arrow . 
Arrived at home , she took off her clothes by the birch tree , left her horse standing there , and hastened to her place behind the stove . 
The girl knew well how matters really stood , but she pretended to know nothing about it , and sat dumb behind the stove . 
The next day they were invited again to the King's banquet . 
Hey ! old man , said the witch , get on your clothes as quick as you can we are bidden to the feast . 
Take you the child I will give the other one work , lest she weary . 
She broke off a branch of the birch tree , struck the hearth with it , so that the seeds flew into the pot , and then hastened to the castle . 
Again the King's son came out to meet her , tied her horse to a pillar , and led her into the banqueting hall . 
At the feast the girl sat next him in the place of honour , as she had done the day before . 
She had not time to look for it , but sprang to the saddle and rode like an arrow to the birch tree . 
There she left her horse and her fine clothes , and said to her mother I have lost my circlet at the castle the door post was tarred , and it stuck fast . 
And even had you lost two of them , answered her mother , I would give you finer ones . 
Then the girl hastened home , and when her father came home from the feast with the witch , she was in her usual place behind the stove . 
The man's daughter held her peace all the time , and busied herself about the hearth . 
So the old man got up . 
Then the witch gave him the child , saying Take you the little one I will give the other girl work to do , else she will weary at home alone . 
When she got to the courtyard she found the Prince waiting for her . 
Scarcely was she in her usual place behind the stove when her father came home with the witch . 
Now the Prince had kept all the things the girl had lost , and he soon set about finding the owner of them . 
For this purpose a great banquet was given on the fourth day , and all the people were invited to the palace . 
The witch got ready to go too . 
What a great trying on there was now among them all ! The things would fit no one , however . 
The cinder wench is not here , said the Prince at last go and fetch her , and let her try on the things . 
Well , then the Prince gave the witch's daughter the ring , and the woman filed and pared away at her daughter's finger till the ring fitted . 
It was the same with the circlet and the shoes of gold . 
The witch would not allow them to be handed to the cinder wench she worked at her own daughter's head and feet till she got the things forced on . 
Some days passed , and at last he had to take his bride home to the palace , and he got ready to do so . 
Thereupon the King's son recognised the cinder wench so he took both the girls with him , and set out . 
There lay the witch's daughter then , like a bridge over the river , and could not stir , though her heart was consumed with grief . 
No help was near , so she cried at last in her anguish May there grow a golden hemlock out of my body ! perhaps my mother will know me by that token . 
Scarcely had she spoken when a golden hemlock sprang up from her , and stood upon the bridge . 
There they received all sorts of treasures and riches , three sacks full of gold , and as much silver , and a splendid steed , which bore them home to the palace . 
There they lived a long time together , and the young wife bore a son to the Prince . 
Immediately word was brought to the witch that her daughter had borne a son for they all believed the young King's wife to be the witch's daughter . 
So , so , said the witch to herself I had better away with my gift for the infant , then . 
And so saying she set out . 
Indeed I am , dear little mother , answered the daughter They threw me across the river to make a bridge of me . 
In a moment the witch had the bridge shivered to atoms , and then she hastened away to the palace . 
Are you there again to bring trouble upon me ? said the young woman . 
She neither spat nor did anything else , but still the witch changed her into a reindeer , and smuggled her own daughter into her place as the Prince's wife . 
But now the child grew restless and cried , because it missed its mother's care . 
They took it to the court , and tried to pacify it in every conceivable way , but its crying never ceased . 
What makes the child so restless ? asked the Prince , and he went to a wise widow woman to ask her advice . 
Is there any way of getting my own wife back from the wood again ? asked the Prince . 
Give me the child , answered the widow woman . 
I'll take it with me to morrow when I go to drive the cows to the wood . 
I'll make a rustling among the birch leaves and a trembling among the aspens perhaps the boy will grow quiet when he hears it . 
Yes , take the child away , take it to the wood with you to quiet it , said the Prince , and led the widow woman into the castle . 
How now ? you are going to send the child away to the wood ? said the witch in a suspicious tone , and tried to interfere . 
But the King's son stood firm by what he had commanded , and said Carry the child about the wood perhaps that will pacify it . 
So the widow woman took the child to the wood . 
The following morning the widow woman went back to the castle to fetch the child . 
So the widow took the child in her arms , and carried it to the marsh in the forest . 
And so it was that the child throve , till not a finer boy was to be seen anywhere . 
Come to the wood with me , however when the woman puts off her reindeer skin I shall comb her head for her whilst I am doing so you must burn the skin . 
Thereupon they both went to the wood with the child scarcely were they there when the reindeer appeared and nursed the child as before . 
Good the young woman stript off the reindeer skin , and let the widow woman do as she wished . 
In the meantime the King's son threw the reindeer skin into the fire unobserved . 
What smells of singeing here ? asked the young woman , and looking round she saw her own husband . 
Woe is me ! you have burnt my skin . 
Why did you do that ? To give you back your human form again . 
But all these shapes the King's son went on destroying till she stood before him in human form again . 
But when the witch wife saw them she ran away with her daughter , and if she has not stopped she is running still , though at a great age . 
And the Prince , and his wife , and the baby lived happy ever afterwards . 
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK JACK SELLS THE COW ONCE upon a time there was a poor widow who lived in a little cottage with her only son Jack . 
Jack was a giddy , thoughtless boy , but very kind hearted and affectionate . 
There had been a hard winter , and after it the poor woman had suffered from fever and ague . 
Jack did no work as yet , and by degrees they grew dreadfully poor . 
Jack liked going to market to sell the cow very much but as he was on the way , he met a butcher who had some beautiful beans in his hand . 
Jack stopped to look at them , and the butcher told the boy that they were of great value , and persuaded the silly lad to sell the cow for these beans . 
When he brought them home to his mother instead of the money she expected for her nice cow , she was very vexed and shed many tears , scolding Jack for his folly . 
He was very sorry , and mother and son went to bed very sadly that night their last hope seemed gone . 
At daybreak Jack rose and went out into the garden . 
At least , he thought , I will sow the wonderful beans . 
Mother says that they are just common scarlet runners , and nothing else but I may as well sow them . 
So he took a piece of stick , and made some holes in the ground , and put in the beans . 
It would be easy to climb it , thought Jack . 
And , having thought of the experiment , he at once resolved to carry it out , for Jack was a good climber . 
However , after his late mistake about the cow , he thought he had better consult his mother first . 
I wonder where it ends , said Jack to his mother I think I will climb up and see . 
So after resting for a moment he went on . 
A crystal stream ran through the pastures not far from the place where he had got off the Beanstalk stood a fine , strong castle . 
While Jack was standing looking at the castle , a very strange looking woman came out of the wood , and advanced towards him . 
She wore a pointed cap of quilted red satin turned up with ermine , her hair streamed loose over her shoulders , and she walked with a staff . 
Jack took off his cap and made her a bow . 
If you please , ma'am , said he , is this your house ? No , said the old lady . 
Listen , and I will tell you the story of that castle . 
Once upon a time there was a noble knight , who lived in this castle , which is on the borders of Fairyland . 
Rumour whispered of these treasures and a monstrous giant , who lived at no great distance , and who was a very wicked being , resolved to obtain possession of them . 
So he bribed a false servant to let him inside the castle , when the knight was in bed and asleep , and he killed him as he lay . 
Then he went to the part of the castle which was the nursery , and also killed all the poor little ones he found there . 
Happily for her , the lady was not to be found . 
Jack , that poor lady is your mother . 
This castle was once your father's , and must again be yours . 
Jack uttered a cry of surprise . 
My mother ! oh , madam , what ought I to do ? My poor father ! My dear mother ! Your duty requires you to win it back for your mother . 
But the task is a very difficult one , and full of peril , Jack . 
Have you courage to undertake it ? I fear nothing when I am doing right , said Jack . 
Then , said the lady in the red cap , you are one of those who slay giants . 
You must get into the castle , and if possible possess yourself of a hen that lays golden eggs , and a harp that talks . 
Remember , all the giant possesses is really yours . 
As she ceased speaking , the lady of the red hat suddenly disappeared , and of course Jack knew she was a fairy . 
Jack determined at once to attempt the adventure so he advanced , and blew the horn which hung at the castle portal . 
The door was opened in a minute or two by a frightful giantess , with one great eye in the middle of her forehead . 
As soon as Jack saw her he turned to run away , but she caught him , and dragged him into the castle . 
Ho , ho ! she laughed terribly . 
You didn't expect to see me here , that is clear ! No , I shan't let you go again . 
I am weary of my life . 
I am so overworked , and I don't see why I should not have a page as well as other ladies . 
And you shall be my boy . 
You shall clean the knives , and black the boots , and make the fires , and help me generally when the giant is out . 
When he is at home I must hide you , for he has eaten up all my pages hitherto , and you would be a dainty morsel , my little lad . 
While she spoke she dragged Jack right into the castle . 
The poor boy was very much frightened , as I am sure you and I would have been in his place . 
But he remembered that fear disgraces a man so he struggled to be brave and make the best of things . 
Come here , child go into my wardrobe he never ventures to open THAT you will be safe there . 
And she opened a huge wardrobe which stood in the great hall , and shut him into it . 
But the keyhole was so large that it ad mitted plenty of air , and he could see everything that took place through it . 
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I'll grind his bones to make my bread . 
Wife , cried the Giant , there is a man in the castle . 
Let me have him for breakfast . 
You are grown old and stupid , cried the lady in her loud tones . 
It is only a nice fresh steak off an elephant , that I have cooked for you , which you smell . 
There , sit down and make a good breakfast . 
And she placed a huge dish before him of savoury steaming meat , which greatly pleased him , and made him forget his idea of an Englishman being in the castle . 
When he had breakfasted he went out for a walk and then the Giantess opened the door , and made Jack come out to help her . 
He helped her all day . 
She fed him well , and when evening came put him back in the wardrobe . 
THE HEN THAT LAYS GOLDEN EGGS . 
The Giant came in to supper . 
Jack watched him through the keyhole , and was amazed to see him pick a wolf's bone , and put half a fowl at a time into his capacious mouth . 
When the supper was ended he bade his wife bring him his hen that laid the golden eggs . 
It lays as well as it did when it belonged to that paltry knight , he said indeed I think the eggs are heavier than ever . 
The Giantess went away , and soon returned with a little brown hen , which she placed on the table before her husband . 
And now , my dear , she said , I am going for a walk , if you don't want me any longer . 
Go , said the Giant I shall be glad to have a nap by and by . 
Then he took up the brown hen and said to her Lay ! And she instantly laid a golden egg . 
Lay ! said the Giant again . 
Lay ! he repeated the third time . 
And again a golden egg lay on the table . 
Now Jack was sure this hen was that of which the fairy had spoken . 
By and by the Giant put the hen down on the floor , and soon after went fast asleep , snoring so loud that it sounded like thunder . 
When his mother saw him enter the house she wept for joy , for she had feared that the fairies had carried him away , or that the Giant had found him . 
But Jack put the brown hen down before her , and told her how he had been in the Giant's castle , and all his adventures . 
She was very glad to see the hen , which would make them rich once more . 
Jack made another journey up the Beanstalk to the Giant's castle one day while his mother had gone to market but first he dyed his hair and disguised himself . 
She bade him stay quite still there , or the Giant would eat him . 
Then the Giant came in saying Fe , fa , fi fo fum , I smell the breath of an Englishman . 
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I'll grind his bones to make my bread . 
Nonsense ! said the wife , it is only a roasted bullock that I thought would be a tit bit for your supper sit down and I will bring it up at once . 
The Giant sat down , and soon his wife brought up a roasted bullock on a large dish , and they began their supper . 
Jack was amazed to see them pick the bones of the bullock as if it had been a lark . 
If you want me call for me . 
First , answered the Giant , bring me my money bags , that I may count my golden pieces before I sleep . 
She went and soon returned with two large bags over her shoulders , which she put down by her husband . 
There , she said that is all that is left of the knight's money . 
When you have spent it you must go and take another baron's castle . 
That he shan't , if I can help it , thought Jack . 
Then he swept them all back into their bags , and leaning back in his chair fell fast asleep , snoring so loud that no other sound was audible . 
, he ran off , and with great difficulty descending the Beanstalk , laid the bags of gold on his mother's table . 
She had just returned from town , and was crying at not finding Jack . 
There , mother , I have brought you the gold that my father lost . 
Oh , Jack ! you are a very good boy , but I wish you would not risk your precious life in the Giant's castle . 
Tell me how you came to go there again . 
And Jack told her all about it . 
Jack's mother was very glad to get the money , but she did not like him to run any risk for her . 
But after a time Jack made up his mind to go again to the Giant's castle . 
So he climbed the Beanstalk once more , and blew the horn at the Giant's gate . 
The Giantess soon opened the door she was very stupid , and did not know him again , but she stopped a minute before she took him in . 
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I'll grind his bones to make my bread . 
You stupid old Giant , said his wife , you only smell a nice sheep , which I have grilled for your dinner . 
And the Giant sat down , and his wife brought up a whole sheep for his dinner . 
When he had eaten it all up , he said Now bring me my harp , and I will have a little music while you take your walk . 
The Giantess obeyed , and returned with a beautiful harp . 
The framework was all sparkling with diamonds and rubies , and the strings were all of gold . 
This is one of the nicest things I took from the knight , said the Giant . 
I am very fond of music , and my harp is a faithful servant . 
So he drew the harp towards him , and said Play ! And the harp played a very soft , sad air . 
Play something merrier ! said the Giant . 
And the harp played a merry tune . 
Now play me a lullaby , roared the Giant and the harp played a sweet lullaby , to the sound of which its master fell asleep . 
With a tremendous roar he sprang from his seat , and in two strides had reached the door . 
But Jack was very nimble . 
, and telling it he was the son of its old master , the knight . 
Still the Giant came on so fast that he was quite close to poor Jack , and had stretched out his great hand to catch him . 
But , luckily , just at that moment he stepped upon a loose stone , stumbled , and fell flat on the ground , where he lay at his full length . 
This accident gave Jack time to get on the Beanstalk and hasten down it but just as he reached their own garden he beheld the Giant descending after him . 
Mother I mother ! cried Jack , make haste and give me the axe . 
His mother ran to him with a hatchet in her hand , and Jack with one tremendous blow cut through all the Beanstalks except one . 
Now , mother , stand out of the way ! said he . 
THE GIANT BREAKS HIS NECK . 
Before Jack and his mother had recovered from their alarm and agitation , a beautiful lady stood before them . 
Jack , said she , you have acted like a brave knight's son , and deserve to have your inheritance restored to you . 
Dig a grave and bury the Giant , and then go and kill the Giantess . 
But , said Jack , I could not kill anyone unless I were fighting with him and I could not draw my sword upon a woman . 
Moreover , the Giantess was very kind to me . 
The Fairy smiled on Jack . 
I am very much pleased with your generous feeling , she said . 
Nevertheless , return to the castle , and act as you will find needful . 
Jack asked the Fairy if she would show him the way to the castle , as the Beanstalk was now down . 
She told him that she would drive him there in her chariot , which was drawn by two peacocks . 
Jack thanked her , and sat down in the chariot with her . 
The Fairy drove him a long distance round , till they reached a village which lay at the bottom of the hill . 
Here they found a number of miserable looking men assembled . 
The men gave a loud cheer at these words , and pressed forward to say that they would serve Jack as faithfully as they had served his father . 
The Fairy bade them follow her to the castle , and they marched thither in a body , and Jack blew the horn and demanded admittance . 
The old Giantess saw them coming from the turret loop hole . 
When the people outside found that the door was not opened to them , they took crowbars and forced the portal . 
Nobody was to be seen , but on leaving the hall they found the body of the Giantess at the foot of the stairs . 
Thus Jack took possession of the castle . 
The Fairy went and brought his mother to him , with the hen and the harp . 
He had the Giantess buried , and endeavoured as much as lay in his power to do right to those whom the Giant had robbed . 
But you showed an inquiring mind , and great courage and enterprise , therefore you deserve to rise and when you mounted the Beanstalk you climbed the Ladder of Fortune . 
She then took her leave of Jack and his mother . 
THE LITTLE GOOD MOUSE ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who loved each other so much that they were never happy unless they were together . 
Now in the next kingdom everything was as different as it could possibly be . 
The King was sulky and savage , and never enjoyed himself at all . 
This kingdom was very appropriately called the Land of Tears . 
The Queen , when she heard of it , was frightened out of her wits , and began to cry bitterly . 
Sire , she said , let us collect all our riches and run away as far as ever we can , to the other side of the world . 
But the King answered Fie , madam ! I am far too brave for that . 
It is better to die than to be a coward . 
Then he assembled all his armed men , and after bidding the Queen a tender farewell , he mounted his splendid horse and rode away . 
When he was lost to sight the Queen could do nothing but weep , and wring her hands , and cry . 
Alas ! If the King is killed , what will become of me and of my little daughter ? and she was so sorrowful that she could neither eat nor sleep . 
The King sent her a letter every day , but at last , one morning , as she looked out of the palace window , she saw a messenger approaching in hot haste . 
The poor Queen fell back insensible , and all her ladies carried her to bed , and stood round her weeping and wailing . 
Then began a tremendous noise and confusion , and they knew that the enemy had arrived , and very soon they heard the King himself stamping about the palace seeking the Queen . 
The fairy was so touched by the sight of her misery that when she kissed her hand she whispered Courage , madam ! I think I see a way to help you . 
But the King got very cross when he saw them whispering together , and cried harshly Make an end of these fine speeches , madam . 
I brought you here to tell me if the child will grow up pretty and fortunate . 
Then he stamped off , taking the Fairy with him , and leaving the poor Queen in tears . 
If I could only hide her away somewhere , so that the cruel King could never find her . 
She had hardly spoken when she saw upon the table a delicious little roast partridge , and two dishes of preserved fruit . 
Then she was quite provoked , and said What a bad little beast that mouse must be ! If it goes on like this I shall be starved . 
As she spoke she saw the little mouse playing in a corner with some long straws . 
She really could not imagine where all the nice things came from . 
Presently she said I know your trouble , madam . 
If you like I will help you . 
Oh ! my dear friend , said the Queen . 
If you really wish to be of use to me you will come at the time that I will appoint , and I will let down my poor little baby in a basket . 
If you will take her , and bring her up for me , when I am rich I will reward you splendidly . 
I don't care about the reward , said the old woman , but there is one thing I should like . 
If there is such a thing in your garret just throw it down to me , and in return I will promise that your little daughter shall be well taken care of . 
The Queen when she heard this began to cry , but made no answer , and the old woman after waiting a few minutes asked her what was the matter . 
What ! cried the old woman , in a rage . 
And she hobbled off grumbling and growling . 
Ah ! little one , said the Queen , it cost me dear to save your life . 
Whereupon the Mouse answered Believe me , madam , you will never repent of your kindness . 
It is not possible that YOU should want for friends , you charming creature , said the Queen , kissing her . 
Indeed it is so , the Fairy said . 
For those who are only friendly with me for their own advantage , I do not count at all . 
The Queen , quite delighted , thanked the Fairy gratefully , and begged her to take charge of the little Delicia and bring her up as her own daughter . 
This she agreed to do , and then they shut the basket and lowered it carefully , baby and all , to the ground at the foot of the tower . 
In the greatest terror she ran up again to the Queen , crying All is lost ! my enemy Cancaline has stolen the Princess away . 
You must know that she is a cruel fairy who hates me , and as she is older than I am and has more power , I can do nothing against her . 
I know no way of rescuing Delicia from her clutches . 
When the Queen heard this terrible news she was heart broken , and begged the Fairy to do all she could to get the poor little Princess back again . 
She answered that a fairy , whose name she did not know , had come and carried her off by force . 
Upon this the King stamped upon the ground , and cried in a terrible voice You shall be hung ! I always told you you should . 
And without another word he dragged the unlucky Queen out into the nearest wood , and climbed up into a tree to look for a branch to which he could hang her . 
But though the good little mouse did her very utmost , they could not find out where Cancaline had hidden the little Princess . 
The Turkey maiden answered proudly I never will marry you I you are too ugly and too much like your cruel father . 
Leave me in peace with my turkeys , which I like far better than all your fine gifts . 
You have goodness and beauty , which are of more value than ten kingdoms , said the wise Fairy . 
I accepted gladly , not knowing that I should have to see him day by day . 
And now he wants to marry me , but that I will never consent to . 
Upon hearing this the Fairy became convinced that the little Turkey maiden was none other than the Princess Delicia . 
What is your name , my little one ? said she . 
I am called Delicia , if it please you , she answered . 
Take this pretty dress and let us see the difference it will make . 
And would you be glad if you were ? said the Fairy . 
Indeed I should , answered she . 
Ah , well , said the Fairy , to morrow I may have some pleasant news for you . 
There , there , don't be melancholy , said the Fairy . 
I assure you the Princess is quite well , and I have never seen her equal for beauty . 
I will not hear of her being made to marry the wicked King's son , she said . 
Let us go at once and bring her here . 
We'll very soon see about that ! So he called his guards and told them to go and fetch Delicia . 
See if I don't make her change her mind pretty soon ! said the wicked King with a chuckle . 
But she said to them very politely Pray tell me what you are looking for here ? Madam , they answered , we are sent for an insignificant little person called Delicia . 
Alas ! said she , that is my name . 
When he saw her he was very much astonished at her beauty , which would have made anyone less hard hearted sorry for her . 
Then the poor little Princess , shaking with terror , went down on her knees , crying Oh , don't tar and feather me , please ! It would be so uncomfortable . 
Let me have two or three days to make up my mind , and then you shall do as you like with me . 
The wicked Prince would have liked very much to see her tarred and feathered , but the King ordered that she should be shut up in a dark dungeon . 
But the Fairy bade her take courage . 
I'll pay them out yet , said she , nodding her head with an air of great determination . 
Then the good Fairy ran to tell the Queen , and they went together to the black dungeon where Delicia was imprisoned . 
Then the Fairy showed her all the wonderful dresses and jewels she had brought for her , and said Don't let us waste time we must go and harangue the people . 
So she walked first , looking very serious and dignified , and wearing a dress the train of which was at least ten ells long . 
Behind her came the Queen wearing a blue velvet robe embroidered with gold , and a diamond crown that was brighter than the sun itself . 
Last of all walked Delicia , who was so beautiful that it was nothing short of marvellous . 
Upon this the people cried with one accord , We will , we will ! we have been gloomy and miserable too long already . 
The Queen felt that she had really come to the end of her misfortunes at last , and they all lived happily ever after . 
La bonne vetite Souris' par Madame d'Aulnoy . 
GRACIOSA AND PERCINET ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen who had one charming daughter . 
She was so graceful and pretty and clever that she was called Graciosa , and the Queen was so fond of her that she could think of nothing else . 
Everybody said she was the happiest Princess in the world . 
Now there lived at this same court a very rich old duchess whose name was Grumbly . 
But if anybody who went to see her happened to mention the charming Princess , she would cry angrily It's not true that she is lovely . 
I have more beauty in my little finger than she has in her whole body . 
Yes , sire , answered she , it is for myself alone , but I shall be most happy to let you taste some of it . 
Which do you like , canary , St . 
Then Duchess Grumbly took up a little hammer and tapped upon the cask twice , and out came at least a thousand crowns . 
What's the meaning of this ? said she smiling . 
Then she tapped the next cask , and out came a bushel of gold pieces . 
I don't understand this at all , said the Duchess , smiling more than before . 
Then she went on to the third cask , tap , tap , and out came such a stream of diamonds and pearls that the ground was covered with them . 
Ah ! she cried , this is altogether beyond my comprehension , sire . 
Someone must have stolen my good wine and put all this rubbish in its place . 
Rubbish , do you call it , Madam Grumbly ? cried the King . 
Rubbish ! why there is enough there to buy ten kingdoms . 
Well , said she , you must know that all those casks are full of gold and jewels , and if you like to marry me it shall all be yours . 
Now the King loved money more than anything else in the world , so he cried joyfully Marry you ? why with all my heart ! to morrow if you like . 
But I make one condition , said the Duchess I must have entire control of your daughter to do as I please with her . 
Oh certainly , you shall have your own way let us shake hands upon the bargain , said the King . 
So they shook hands and went up out of the cellar of treasure together , and the Duchess locked the door and gave the key to the King . 
When he got back to his own palace Graciosa ran out to meet him , and asked if he had had good sport . 
I have caught a dove , answered he . 
Oh ! do give it to me , said the Princess , and I will keep it and take care of it . 
I can hardly do that , said he , for , to speak more plainly , I mean that I met the Duchess Grumbly , and have promised to marry her . 
And you call her a dove ? cried the Princess . 
I should have called her a screech owl . 
Hold your tongue , said the King , very crossly . 
I intend you to behave prettily to her . 
So now go and make yourself fit to be seen , as I am going to take you to visit her . 
So the Princess went very sorrowfully to her own room , and her nurse , seeing her tears , asked what was vexing her . 
Alas ! who would not be vexed ? answered she , for the King intends to marry again , and has chosen for his new bride my enemy , the hideous Duchess Grumbly . 
Oh , well ! answered the nurse , you must remember that you are a Princess , and are expected to set a good example in making the best of whatever happens . 
You must promise me not to let the Duchess see how much you dislike her . 
At first the Princess would not promise , but the nurse showed her so many good reasons for it that in the end she agreed to be amiable to her step mother . 
When she was ready nobody could have been prettier , but she still could not help looking sad . 
Meanwhile the Duchess Grumbly was also occupied in attiring herself . 
She dyed her red hair black , and painted her face . 
He was dressed in green , and the cap which he held in his hand was adorned with white plumes . 
When Graciosa looked at him he went down on one knee , and said to her Princess , the King awaits you . 
In mine ? said the Princess with great surprise . 
Ah , Percinet ! cried the Princess , is it really you ? I have so often heard of you and wished to see you . 
If you will indeed be my friend , I shall not be afraid of that wicked old Duchess any more . 
So they went back to the palace together , and there Graciosa found a beautiful horse which Percinet had brought for her to ride . 
As it was very spirited he led it by the bridle , and this arrangement enabled him to turn and look at the Princess often , which he did not fail to do . 
Indeed , she was so pretty that it was a real pleasure to look at her . 
When they met the Duchess Grumbly she was seated in an open carriage trying in vain to look dignified . 
The King and the Princess saluted her , and her horse was brought forward for her to mount . 
But when she saw Graciosa's she cried angrily If that child is to have a better horse than mine , I will go back to my own castle this very minute . 
Even then she was not satisfied , and was still grumbling and muttering , so they asked her what was the matter . 
I wish that Page in green to come and lead the horse , as he did when Graciosa rode it , said she very sharply . 
And the King ordered the Page to come and lead the Queen's horse . 
Percinet and the Princess looked at one another , but said never a word , and then he did as the King commanded , and the procession started in great pomp . 
The Duchess was greatly elated , and as she sat there in state would not have wished to change places even with Graciosa . 
Her bonnet was here and her shoes there , her face was scratched , and her fine clothes were covered with mud . 
Never was a bride seen in such a dismal plight . 
At this the King was terribly frightened , for he did not at all want to lose all those barrels of gold and jewels . 
So he hastened to appease the Duchess , and told her she might punish Graciosa in any way she pleased . 
Thereupon she sent for Graciosa , who turned pale and trembled at the summons , for she guessed that it promised nothing agreeable for her . 
She looked all about for Percinet , but he was nowhere to be seen so she had no choice but to go to the Duchess Grumbly's room . 
Poor Graciosa wished miserably that Percinet could only know what was happening and come to rescue her . 
However , when nearly all the strangers had been defeated , a young unknown knight presented himself . 
The unknown knight then saluted her gracefully and retired , without telling his name to anybody . 
But Graciosa had no difficulty in guessing that it was Percinet . 
As to the Queen , she was so furiously angry that she could hardly speak but she soon recovered her voice , and overwhelmed Graciosa with a torrent of reproaches . 
I will have my revenge . 
Graciosa belongs to her ! The wicked Queen waited impatiently until night fell , and then she ordered her carriage to be brought . 
Graciosa , much against her will , was forced into it , and away they drove , and never stopped until they reached a great forest , a hundred leagues from the palace . 
At that moment a slight sound behind her made her start round , and there stood Percinet himself . 
Did I frighten you , my Princess ? said he . 
I come to bid you welcome to our fairy palace , in the name of the Queen , my mother , who is prepared to love you as much as I do . 
Your painters must indeed be diligent , she said , pointing out the last picture to the Prince . 
They are obliged to be , for I will not have anything forgotten that happens to you , he answered . 
So up they went together to the top of a very high tower , which , like the rest of the castle , was built entirely of rock crystal . 
I have ordered that she shall be buried at once . 
And so , though he did not want to at all , he was obliged to promise that he would let her go . 
Oh , Percinet ! she cried , what has happened ? The palace is gone . 
Yes , he answered , my palace is a thing of the past you will see it again , but not until after you have been buried . 
Now you are angry with me , said Graciosa in her most coaxing voice , though after all I am more to be pitied than you are . 
The King , who did not know what to think , sent quickly and had it dug up , and sure enough it was as the Princess had said . 
Then he caressed Graciosa , and made her sit down to supper with him , and they were as happy as possible . 
But someone had by this time told the wicked Queen that Graciosa had come back , and was at supper with the King , and in she flew in a terrible fury . 
There was some straw in a corner , which was all she had for a bed , and they gave her a very little bit of black bread to eat . 
So the old Fairy said she would think it over , and come again the next day . 
So saying she left her , locking the door behind her with three keys . 
The Princess stood dismayed at the sight of the terrible skein . 
If she did but turn it over to see where to begin , she broke a thousand threads , and not one could she disentangle . 
And immediately in came Percinet as easily as if he had all the keys in his own possession . 
Here I am , Princess , as much as ever at your service , said he , though really you are not very kind to me . 
Don't be vexed with me , Percinet , she said . 
I am unhappy enough without that . 
But why should you be unhappy , my Princess ? cried he . 
Only come with me and we shall be as happy as the day is long together . 
But suppose you get tired of me ? said Graciosa . 
The Prince was so grieved at this want of confidence that he left her without another word . 
And then she sent her back to be locked into the garret once more . 
Then the Queen sent for the Fairy again and scolded her furiously . 
Don't make such a mistake again find me something that it will be quite impossible for her to do , she said . 
So the next day the Fairy appeared with a huge barrel full of the feathers of all sorts of birds . 
These feathers were all mixed up in such confusion that the birds themselves could not have chosen out their own . 
Here , said the Fairy , is a little task which it will take all your prisoner's skill and patience to accomplish . 
Tell her to pick out and lay in a separate heap the feathers of each bird . 
She would need to be a fairy to do it . 
The Queen was more than delighted at the thought of the despair this task would cause the Princess . 
She sent for her , and with the same threats as before locked her up with the three keys , ordering that all the feathers should be sorted by sunset . 
Graciosa set to work at once , but before she had taken out a dozen feathers she found that it was perfectly impossible to know one from another . 
Ah ! well , she sighed , the Queen wishes to kill me , and if I must die I must . 
I cannot ask Percinet to help me again , for if he really loved me he would not wait till I called him , he would come without that . 
I am here , my Graciosa , cried Percinet , springing out of the barrel where he had been hiding . 
What should I do without you , Percinet ? said Graciosa gratefully . 
When the wicked Queen came at sunset she was amazed and infuriated to find the task done . 
However , she complained that the heaps of feathers were badly arranged , and for that the Princess was beaten and sent back to her garret . 
At the end of three days she came again , bringing with her a box . 
Tell your slave , said he , to carry this wherever you please , but on no account to open it . 
She will not be able to help doing so , and then you will be quite satisfied with the result . 
So the Queen came to Graciosa , and said Carry this box to my castle , and place it upon the table in my own room . 
But I forbid you on pain of death to look at what it contains . 
She was carefully holding the box upon her lap when she suddenly felt the greatest desire to open it , What could possibly happen if I did ? she said to herself . 
I should not take anything out . 
I should only just see what was there . 
And without farther hesitation she lifted the cover . 
But presently , when she was rested and wished to go on her way , she found that , do what she would , she could not get them back into their box . 
At last , weary and terrified , she sat down and cried . 
It is my own fault , she said sadly . 
Percinet , if you can still care for such an imprudent Princess , do come and help me once more . 
Immediately Percinet stood before her . 
Ah , Princess ! he said , but for the wicked Queen I fear you would never think of me at all . 
Indeed I should , said Graciosa I am not so ungrateful as you think . 
Only wait a little and I believe I shall love you quite dearly . 
When the Princess presented herself at the door , and said that the Queen had ordered her to place the box in her own room , the governor laughed heartily at the idea . 
No , no , my little shepherdess , said he , that is not the place for you . 
No wooden shoes have ever been over that floor yet . 
Then Graciosa begged him to give her a written message telling the Queen that he had refused to admit her . 
This he did , and she went back to Percinet , who was waiting for her , and they set out together for the palace . 
However , what she really did do was to have a great hole as deep as a well dug in her garden , and the top of it covered with a flat stone . 
Graciosa felt that now indeed she was hopelessly lost , surely not even Percinet could find her in the heart of the earth . 
This is like being buried alive , she said with a shudder . 
Graciosa did not hesitate an instant , but passed through into a charming garden . 
Yes ! there was no mistaking it , and the Queen and Percinet were coming to meet her . 
Ah , Princess ! said the Queen , don't keep this poor Percinet in suspense any longer . 
You little guess the anxiety he has suffered while you were in the power of that miserable Queen . 
THE THREE PRINCESSES OF WHITELAND THERE was once upon a time a fisherman , who lived hard by a palace and fished for the King's table . 
One day he was out fishing , but caught nothing at all . 
The baby was a boy , and the King took him at once and brought him up as his own son until the lad grew up . 
Then one day he begged to have leave to go out with his father to fish he had a strong desire to do this , he said . 
The King was very unwilling to permit it , but at last the lad got leave . 
He stayed with his father , and all went prosperously and well with them the whole day , until they came back to land in the evening . 
There he landed , and when he had walked on for some distance he met an old man with a long white beard . 
What is the name of this country ? said the youth . 
Whiteland , answered the man , and then he begged the youth to tell him whence he came and what he was going to do , and the youth did so . 
Hurry past , as if you neither saw nor heard them but you shall go to the third and do what she bids you it will bring you good fortune . 
If thou wilt do what I tell thee , thou shalt choose among us three , said the Princess . 
Yes , answered the lad , I will certainly try to do so . 
Then lay hold of the sword which is hanging by the side of the flask , and smite the Troll dead . 
So he did what the Princess had told him . 
He walked straight in between the lions just as if he did not see them , and then into the small chamber , and lay down on the bed . 
Having done this , he grasped the sword and smote the Troll dead . 
In the morning when he went to the sea shore the Princesses were out of the earth as far as their waists . 
So he took the youngest for his Queen , and lived with her very happily for a long time . 
At last , however , he took a fancy to go home for a short time to see his parents . 
So she gave him a ring , which enabled him who wore it to obtain two wishes . 
He wished himself at home , and instantly found himself there but his parents were so amazed at the splendour of his apparel that their wonder never ceased . 
When he had been at home for some days his mother wanted him to go up to the palace , to show the King what a great man he had become . 
I do not believe you have such a pretty Queen as I have . 
Would to heaven she were standing here , and then you would be able to see ! said the young King , and in an instant she was standing there . 
Then she tied a ring in his hair , which had her name upon it , and wished herself at home again . 
And now the young King was deeply afflicted , and day out and day in went about thinking of naught else but how to get back again to his Queen . 
I will try to see if there is any place where I can learn how to find Whiteland , he thought , and journeyed forth out into the world . 
So the King asked where Whiteland was . 
I do not know that , he answered , but I will ask my beasts . 
Then he blew his horn and inquired whether any of them knew where Whiteland lay , but there was not one who knew that . 
So the man gave him a pair of snow shoes . 
When you have got there , just turn the shoes so that the toes point this way , and then they will come home again of their own accord . 
When the King arrived there he turned the shoes as the Lord of the beasts had bidden him , and they went back . 
And now he once more asked after Whiteland , and the man summoned all the birds together , and inquired if any of them knew where Whiteland lay . 
No , none knew this . 
Long after the others there came an old eagle . 
He had been absent ten whole years , but he too knew no more than the rest . 
Well , well , said the man , then you shall have the loan of a pair of snow shoes of mine . 
If you wear them you will get to my brother , who lives hundreds of miles from here . 
He is Lord of all the fish in the sea you can ask him . 
But do not forget to turn the shoes round . 
The man called the fish together with his horn , but none of them knew anything about it . 
At last came an old , old pike , which he had great difficulty in bringing home to him . 
When he asked the pike , it said , Yes , Whiteland is well known to me , for I have been cook there these ten years . 
To morrow morning I have to go back there , for now the Queen , whose King is staying away , is to marry some one else . 
If that be the case I will give you a piece of advice , said the man . 
You may tell them that you have a desire to try these things , and then you will be able to decide which of the men is to have them . 
So the King thanked him and went , and did what he had said . 
While he was going quickly through the air he fell in with the North Wind . 
And where may you be going ? said the North Wind . 
To Whiteland , said the King , and then he related what had happened to him . 
As the North Wind had said , so did the King . 
And when he was rid of him the King went into the castle . 
THE VOICE OF DEATH ONCE upon a time there lived a man whose one wish and prayer was to get rich . 
Day and night he thought of nothing else , and at last his prayers were granted , and he became very wealthy . 
He got ready for his journey , took leave of his wife , and started . 
At last he reached a country where he was told that the people did not even know the meaning of the word death . 
And do they see the person who calls them , he asked , or do they only hear his voice ? They both see and hear him , was the answer . 
For he had made up his own mind that when he or any of his family heard that voice they would pay no heed to it , however loudly it called . 
For some years everything went well with them , and they lived happily in their new home . 
But don't you hear that voice calling me ? she answered . 
I am merely going to see why I am wanted . 
I shall come back directly . 
So she fought and struggled to get away from her husband , and to go where the voice summoned . 
But he would not let her go , and had all the doors of the house shut and bolted . 
When she saw that he had done this , she said Very well , dear husband , I shall do what you wish , and remain where I am . 
So her husband believed that it was all right , and that she had thought better of it , and had got over her mad impulse to obey the voice . 
But a few minutes later she made a sudden dash for one of the doors , opened it and darted out , followed by her husband . 
He caught her by the fur coat , and begged and implored her not to go , for if she did she would certainly never return . 
She said nothing , but let her arms fall backwards , and suddenly bending herself forward , she slipped out of the coat , leaving it in her husband's hands . 
I warned and implored her to pay no heed to that voice , however loudly it might call . 
Well , days and weeks and months and years passed , and nothing happened to disturb the peace of the household . 
But one day the man was at the barber's as usual , being shaved . 
But again looking towards the door , he exclaimed I tell you , once and for all , I do not mean to come , so go away . 
And a few minutes later he called out again Go away , I tell you , or it will be the worse for you . 
You may call as much as you like but you will never get me to come . 
And he got so angry that you might have thought that some one was actually standing at the door , tormenting him . 
At last he jumped up , and caught the razor out of the barber's hand , exclaiming Give me that razor , and I'll teach him to let people alone for the future . 
And he rushed out of the house as if he were running after some one , whom no one else saw . 
So he too , like the others , had been forced against his will to follow the voice that called him . 
All that they could see was a vast plain , that looked as if it had been there since the beginning of the world . 
And from that time the people of the country began to die like ordinary mortals all the world over . 
Roumanian Tales from the German of Mite Thremnitz . 
What are you doing there ? asked the mother . 
I was thinking what I shall call my first child after I am married to that young man . 
All the names in the calendar are taken already . 
The mother sat down on the staircase beside her daughter and said , I will think about it with you , my dear . 
The father who had stayed upstairs with the young man was surprised that neither his wife nor his daughter came back , and in his turn went down to look for them . 
He found them both sitting on the stairs , while beside them the beer was running all over the ground from the tap , which was wide open . 
What are you doing there ? The beer is running all over the cellar . 
We were thinking what we should call the children that our daughter will have when she marries that young man . 
All the names in the calendar are taken already . 
Well , said the father , I will think about it with you . 
As neither mother nor daughter nor father came upstairs again , the lover grew impatient , and went down into the cellar to see what they could all be doing . 
He found them all three sitting on the stairs , while beside them the beer was running all over the ground from the tap , which was wide open . 
When the young man heard this answer he replied Well ! good bye , I am going away . 
When I shall have found three people sillier than you I will come back and marry your daughter . 
So he continued his journey , and after walking a long way he reached an orchard . 
Then he saw some people knocking down walnuts , and trying to throw them into a cart with a fork . 
What are you doing there ? he asked . 
We want to load the cart with our walnuts , but we can't manage to do it . 
The lover advised them to get a basket and to put the walnuts in it , so as to turn them into the cart . 
Well , he said to himself , I have already found someone more foolish than those three . 
So he went on his way , and by and by he came to a wood . 
There he saw a man who wanted to give his pig some acorns to eat , and was trying with all his might to make him climb up the oak tree . 
What are you doing , my good man ? asked he . 
I want to make my pig eat some acorns , and I can't get him to go up the tree . 
If you were to climb up and shake down the acorns the pig would pick them up . 
Oh , I never thought of that . 
Here is the second idiot , said the lover to himself . 
Some way farther along the road he came upon a man who had never worn any trousers , and who was trying to put on a pair . 
It would be much better if you held them in your hands , said the young man , and then put your legs one after the other in each hole . 
Dear me to be sure ! You are sharper than I am , for that never occurred to me . 
And having found three people more foolish than his bride , or her father or her mother , the lover went back to marry the young lady . 
And in course of time they had a great many children . 
KARI WOODENGOWN THERE was once upon a time a King who had become a widower . 
His Queen had left one daughter behind her , and she was so wise and so pretty that it was impossible for any one to be wiser or prettier . 
At last she thought that everything was too good for her , and set her to work to look after the cattle . 
So she went about with the cattle , and herded them in the woods and in the fields . 
Of food she got little or none , and grew pale and thin , and was nearly always weeping and sad . 
Among the herd there was a great blue bull , which always kept itself very smart and sleek , and often came to the King's daughter and let her stroke him . 
So the waiting maid went home and told the Queen . 
And now the King came home , and he had conquered the other King with whom he had been at war . 
So there was great gladness in the palace , but no one was more glad than the King's daughter . 
When the King's daughter heard it she was full of sorrow , and went down to the byre to the Bull . 
He too was standing there hanging his head , and looking so downcast that she fell a weeping over him . 
What are you weeping for ? said the Bull . 
When once they have taken my life they will soon kill you also , said the Bull . 
If you are of the same mind with me , we will take our departure this very night . 
So she said she would be on her guard , and not touch anything . 
Oh ! oh ! What have you done now ? said the Bull . 
It will now cost us a battle for life or death but do be careful to keep the leaf . 
Very soon afterwards they came to the end of the wood , and the Troll with three heads came rushing up to them . 
Who is that who is touching my wood ? said the Troll . 
The wood is just as much mine as yours ! said the Bull . 
We shall have a tussle for that ! shrieked the Troll . 
That may be , said the Bull . 
And now they journeyed on for many , many days , and then after a long , long time they came to a silver wood . 
The trees , and the boughs , and the leaves , and the flowers , and everything else was of silver . 
A Troll with six heads lives here , who is the owner of the wood , and I do not think I should be able to overcome him . 
Yes , said the King's daughter , I will take good care not to touch what you do not wish me to touch . 
But when they got into the wood it was so crowded , and the trees so close together , that they could scarcely get forward . 
Oh ! oh ! What have you done now ? said the Bull . 
Just as he said this came the Troll . 
Who is that who is touching my wood ? he said . 
It is just as much mine as yours ! We shall have a tussle for that ! screamed the Troll . 
So he told the King's daughter to take the horn of ointment that was hanging at the Troll's belt , and anoint him with it . 
She did this , and then he came to himself again , but they had to stay there and rest for a week before the Bull was able to go any farther . 
At last they set forth on their way again , but the Bull was still weak , and at first could not go quickly . 
It was so golden that the gold dripped off it , and the trees , and the branches , and the flowers , and the leaves were all of pure gold . 
Here all happened just as it had happened in the copper wood and silver wood . 
So she said that she would take great care not to touch anything , and he should see that she did . 
But when they got into the wood it was still thicker than the silver wood , and the farther they got into it the worse it grew . 
We shall have a tussle for that ! screamed the Troll . 
That may be , said the Bull so they rushed at each other , and fought , and it was such a dreadful sight that the King's daughter very nearly swooned . 
But then he himself was so worn out and weak that he could not move at all . 
She did this without being told so he came to himself again , but he had to lie there for three weeks and rest before he was in a state to move . 
Then they journeyed onwards by degrees , for the Bull said that they had still a little farther to go , and in this way they crossed many high hills and thick woods . 
This lasted for a while , and then they came upon the fells . 
Do you see anything ? asked the Bull . 
No , I see nothing but the sky above and the wild fell side , said the King's daughter . 
Then they climbed up higher , and the fell grew more level , so that they could see farther around them . 
Do you see anything now ? said the Bull . 
Yes , I see a small castle , far , far away , said the Princess . 
It is not so very little after all , said the Bull . 
After a long , long time they came to a high hill , where there was a precipitous wall of rock . 
Do you see nothing now ? said the Bull . 
Yes , now I see the castle quite near , and now it is much , much larger , said the King's daughter . 
Thither shall you go , said the Bull immediately below the castle there is a pig sty , where you shall dwell . 
Close beside the rock a stick is standing , and when you want me for anything you have only to knock at the wall of rock with that . 
When she had done that she went away to the pig sty , but all the way as she went she wept , and was very sorrowful . 
Then she put on the wooden gown , and walked to the King's palace . 
When she got there she went into the kitchen and begged for a place , saying that her name was Kari Woodengown . 
The cook told her that she might have a place and leave to stay there at once and wash up , for the girl who had done that before had just gone away . 
And as soon as you get tired of being here you will take yourself off too , said he . 
No , said she , that I shall certainly not . 
And then she washed up , and did it very tidily . 
Do you suppose that I will have any water that you bring ? said the Prince , and emptied it over her . 
She had to bear that , but then she asked permission to go to church . 
She got that , for the church was very near . 
But first she went to the rock and knocked at it with the stick which was standing there , as the Bull had told her to do . 
Instantly a man came forth and asked what she wanted . 
The King's daughter said that she had got leave to go to church and listen to the priest , but that she had no clothes to go in . 
So he brought her a gown that was as bright as the copper wood , and she got a horse and saddle too from him . 
As she was walking out of church the Prince followed her and shut the church door after her , and thus he kept one of her gloves in his hand . 
Then she went away and mounted her horse again the Prince again followed her , and asked her whence she came . 
Oh ! I am from Bathland , said Kari . 
Next Sunday some one had to take up a towel to the Prince . 
Ah ! may I have leave to go up with that ? said Kari . 
What would be the use of that ? said the others who were in the kitchen you saw what happened last time . 
Kari would not give in , but went on begging for leave till she got it , and then she ran up the stairs so that her wooden gown clattered again . 
Out came the Prince , and when he saw that it was Kari , he snatched the towel from her and flung it right in her eyes . 
They all asked how she could want to go to church when she had nothing to wear but that wooden gown , which was so black and hideous . 
But Kari said she thought the priest was such a good man at preaching that she got so much benefit from what he said , and at last she got leave . 
She went to the rock and knocked , whereupon out came the man and gave her a gown which was much more magnificent than the first . 
When the sermon was over and she went out of the church , and was just going to mount her horse , the Prince again came and asked her where she came from . 
Next Sunday some one had to go to the Prince with a comb . 
After that the Prince went to church , and Kari also begged for leave to go . 
Again they all asked what she would do there , she who was so black and ugly , and had no clothes that she could be seen in by other people . 
And now all happened just as it had happened twice already . 
It was almost entirely made of pure gold and diamonds , and she also got a noble horse with housings embroidered with gold , and a golden bridle . 
When she had seated herself on the horse the Prince came running out of the church and asked her whence she came . 
From Combland , said Kari . 
So fair maidens and ugly maidens came thither from all regions , but there was none who had a foot so small that she could put on the gold shoe . 
After a long , long while came Kari Woodengown's wicked stepmother , with her daughter too , and the shoe fitted her . 
But she was so ugly and looked so loathsome that the Prince was very unwilling to do what he had promised . 
So all the waiting maids , and all the womenkind in the castle had to come and try on the shoe , but there was not one whom it would fit . 
Kari ! he called out through the door , and Kari came upstairs , and her wooden gown clattered as if a whole regiment of dragoons were coming up . 
Now , you are to try on the gold shoe and be a Princess , said the other servants , and they laughed at her and mocked her . 
Good morning , neighbour , says the friend , where are you off to so early ? I am going to the King for what he owes me . 
Oh ! take me with thee ! Drakestail said to himself One can't have too many friends . 
I will , says he , but going on all fours you will soon be tired . 
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat go into my gizzard and I will carry you . 
Happy thought ! says friend Fox . 
He takes bag and baggage , and , presto ! is gone like a letter into the post . 
Good morning , my duckling , says the lady friend , whither away so bold ? I am going to the King for what he owes me . 
Oh ! take me with thee ! Drakestail said to himself One can't have too many friends . 
I will , says he , but with your wooden legs you will soon be tired . 
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat go into my gizzard and I will carry you . 
Happy thought ! says my friend Ladder , and nimble , bag and baggage , goes to keep company with friend Fox . 
And Quack , quack , quack . 
Drakestail is off again , singing and spruce as before . 
A little farther he meets his sweetheart , my friend River , wandering quietly in the sunshine . 
Oh ! take me with thee ! Drakestail said to himself We can't be too many friends . 
I will , says he , but you who sleep while you walk will soon be tired . 
Make yourself quite small , get into my throat go into my gizzard and I will carry you . 
Ah ! happy thought ! says my friend River . 
She takes bag and baggage , and glou , glou , glou , she takes her place between friend Fox and my friend Ladder . 
And Quack , quack , quack . 
Drakestail is off again singing . 
A little farther on he meets comrade Wasp's nest , manoeuvring his wasps . 
Oh ! take me with thee ! Drakestail said to himself , One can't have too many friends . 
I will , says he , but with your battalion to drag along , you will soon be tired . 
Make yourself quite small , go into my throat get into my gizzard and I will carry you . 
By Jove I that's a good idea ! says comrade Wasp's nest . 
And left file ! he takes the same road to join the others with all his party . 
There was not much more room , but by closing up a bit they managed . 
And Drakestail is off again singing . 
He strikes with the knocker Toc ! toc ! Who is there ? asks the porter , putting his head out of the wicket . 
I wish to speak to the King . 
Speak to the King ! . 
The King is dining , and will not be disturbed . 
Tell him that it is I , and I have come he well knows why . 
The porter shuts his wicket and goes up to say it to the King , who was just sitting down to dinner with a napkin round his neck , and all his ministers . 
Good , good ! said the King laughing . 
I know what it is ! Make him come in , and put him with the turkeys and chickens . 
Have the goodness to enter . 
Good ! says Drakestail to himself , I shall now see how they eat at court . 
This way , this way , says the porter . 
There , there you are . 
How ? what ? in the poultry yard ? Fancy how vexed Drakestail was ! Ah ! so that's it , says he . 
Wait ! I will compel you to receive me . 
Quack , quack , quack , when shall I get my money back ? But turkeys and chickens are creatures who don't like people that are not as themselves . 
When they saw the new comer and how he was made , and when they heard him crying too , they began to look black at him . 
What is it ? what does he want ? Finally they rushed at him all together , to overwhelm him with pecks . 
He ordered them to throw this tail of a drake into the well , to make an end of him . 
And it was done as he commanded . 
Drakestail was in despair of getting himself out of such a deep hole , when he remembered his lady friend , the Ladder . 
Ladder , Ladder , come out of thy hold , Or Drakestail's days will soon be told . 
When the King , who was still at table and laughing at the good trick he had played his creditor , heard him again reclaiming his money , he became livid with rage . 
He commanded that the furnace should be heated , and this tail of a drake thrown into it , because he must be a sorcerer . 
The furnace was soon hot , but this time Drakestail was not so afraid he counted on his sweetheart , my friend River . 
River , River , outward flow , Or to death Drakestail must go . 
Bring him here , and I'll cut his throat ! bring him here quick ! cried he . 
And quickly two footmen ran to fetch Drakestail . 
At last , said the poor chap , going up the great stairs , they have decided to receive me . 
Imagine his terror when on entering he sees the King as red as a turkey cock , and all his ministers attending him standing sword in hand . 
He thought this time it was all up with him . 
Happily , he remembered that there was still one remaining friend , and he cried with dying accents Wasp's nest , Wasp's nest , make a sally , Or Drakestail nevermore may rally . 
Bs , bs , bayonet them ! The brave Wasp's nest rushes out with all his wasps . 
Behold Drakestail much astonished , all alone in the big saloon and master of the field . 
He could not get over it . 
Nevertheless , he remembered shortly what he had come for to the palace , and improving the occasion , he set to work to hunt for his dear money . 
But in vain he rummaged in all the drawers he found nothing all had been spent . 
Drakestail , who was no longer surprised at anything , received the acclamations of the people as if he had never done anything else all his life . 
In short , they ran and took the crown off the head of the deceased , and placed it on that of Drakestail , whom it fitted like wax . 
And now , said he after the ceremony , ladies and gentlemen , let's go to supper . 
I am so hungry ! Contes of Ch . 
The night was even worse . 
As soon as the lights were out , these untiring nibblers set to work . 
Neither cats nor dogs , nor poison nor traps , nor prayers nor candles burnt to all the saints nothing would do anything . 
The more they killed the more came . 
He was dressed in a green jacket with a leather belt and red breeches , and on his feet were sandals fastened by thongs passed round his legs in the gipsy fashion . 
That is how he may be seen to this day , painted on a window of the cathedral of Hamel . 
The town council had just assembled to consider once more this plague of Egypt , from which no one could save the town . 
Then he is a sorcerer ! cried the citizens with one voice we must beware of him . 
The Town Counsellor , who was considered clever , reassured them . 
He said Sorcerer or no , if this bagpiper speaks the truth , it was he who sent us this horrible vermin that he wants to rid us of to day for money . 
Well , we must learn to catch the devil in his own snares . 
You leave it to me . 
Leave it to the Town Counsellor , said the citizens one to another . 
And the stranger was brought before them . 
Before night , said he , I shall have despatched all the rats in Hamel if you will but pay me a gros a head . 
The bagpiper announced that he would operate that very evening when the moon rose . 
And the good people of Hamel repeated with their counsellors , Leave it to the Town Counsellor . 
Towards nine at night the bagpiper re appeared on the market place . 
He turned , as at first , his back to the church , and the moment the moon rose on the horizon , Trarira , trari ! the bagpipes resounded . 
When the square was quite full the bagpiper faced about , and , still playing briskly , turned towards the river that runs at the foot of the walls of Hamel . 
Arrived there he turned round the rats were following . 
Hop ! hop ! he cried , pointing with his finger to the middle of the stream , where the water whirled and was drawn down as if through a funnel . 
And hop ! hop ! without hesitating , the rats took the leap , swam straight to the funnel , plunged in head foremost and disappeared . 
The plunging continued thus without ceasing till midnight . 
At last , dragging himself with difficulty , came a big rat , white with age , and stopped on the bank . 
It was the king of the band . 
Are they all there , friend Blanchet ? asked the bagpiper . 
They are all there , replied friend Blanchet . 
And how many were they ? Nine hundred and ninety thousand , nine hundred and ninety nine . 
Well reckoned ? Well reckoned . 
Then go and join them , old sire , and au revoir . 
Then the old white rat sprang in his turn into the river , swam to the whirlpool and disappeared . 
When the bagpiper had thus concluded his business he went to bed at his inn . 
And for the first time during three months the people of Hamel slept quietly through the night . 
The next morning , at nine o'clock , the bagpiper repaired to the town hall , where the town council awaited him . 
All your rats took a jump into the river yesterday , said he to the counsellors , and I guarantee that not one of them comes back . 
They were nine hundred and ninety thousand , nine hundred and ninety nine , at one gros a head . 
Reckon ! Let us reckon the heads first . 
One gros a head is one head the gros . 
Where are the heads ? The ratcatcher did not expect this treacherous stroke . 
He paled with anger and his eyes flashed fire . 
The heads ! cried he , if you care about them , go and find them in the river . 
So , replied the Town Counsellor , you refuse to hold to the terms of your agreement ? We ourselves could refuse you all payment . 
But you have been of use to us , and we will not let you go without a recompense , and he offered him fifty crowns . 
Keep your recompense for yourself , replied the ratcatcher proudly . 
If you do not pay me I will be paid by your heirs . 
Thereupon he pulled his hat down over his eyes , went hastily out of the hall , and left the town without speaking to a soul . 
But what made them laugh above all was his threat of getting himself paid by their heirs . 
Ha ! they wished that they only had such creditors for the rest of their lives . 
They never suspected the terrible surprise that awaited them on their return home . 
No children anywhere , they had all disappeared ! Our children ! where are our poor children ? was the cry that was soon heard in all the streets . 
There they found the ratcatcher playing his bagpipes at the same spot as the evening before . 
At their approach the mountain had opened a little , and the bagpiper had gone in with them , after which it had closed again . 
Only the three little ones who told the adventure had remained outside , as if by a miracle . 
At this story the parents redoubled their lamentations . 
They ran with pikes and mattocks to the mountain , and searched till evening to find the opening by which their children had disappeared , without being able to find it . 
At last , the night falling , they returned desolate to Hamel . 
That is why for several years they sent in search of them to different countries , but no one ever came on the trace of the poor little ones . 
It was not till much later that anything was to be heard of them . 
These people also declared that they came from Germany , but they did not know how they chanced to be in this strange country . 
Now , said the merchants of Bremen , these Germans cannot be other than the descendants of the lost children of Hamel . 
There are more difficult things to believe than that . 
The story begins something like the tale . 
There was once a little peasant girl , pretty and nice as a star in its season . 
And as the good old woman was considered something of a witch , everyone thought the little hood rather bewitched too . 
And so it was , as you will see . 
One day the mother said to the child Let us see , my little Golden hood , if you know now how to find your way by yourself . 
You shall take this good piece of cake to your Grandmother for a Sunday treat to morrow . 
You will ask her how she is , and come back at once , without stopping to chatter on the way with people you don't know . 
Do you quite understand ? I quite understand , replied Blanchette gaily . 
And off she went with the cake , quite proud of her errand . 
But the Grandmother lived in another village , and there was a big wood to cross before getting there . 
At a turn of the road under the trees , suddenly Who goes there ? Friend Wolf . 
Instead of falling upon Blanchette he came frisking up to her like a good dog . 
'Tis you ! my nice Little Golden hood , said he . 
So the little girl stops to talk with the Wolf , who , for all that , she did not know in the least . 
You know me , then ! said she what is your name ? My name is friend Wolf . 
And where does she live , your Grandmother ? She lives at the other side of the wood , in the first house in the village , near the windmill , you know . 
Ah ! yes ! I know now , said the Wolf . 
Thereupon the Wolf cuts across the wood , and in five minutes arrives at the Grandmother's house . 
He knocks at the door toc , toc . 
Then he stands up on end , puts his two fore paws on the latch and the door opens . 
Not a soul in the house . 
Good ! said the Wolf to himself , I know what I'll do . 
He shuts the door , pulls on the Grandmother's night cap down to his eyes , then he lies down all his length in the bed and draws the curtains . 
At last she arrives at the door . 
Who is there ? says the Wolf , softening his rough voice as best he can . 
It's me , Granny , your little Golden hood . 
I'm bringing you a big piece of cake for your Sunday treat to morrow . 
Press your finger on the latch , then push and the door opens . 
Why , you've got a cold , Granny , said she , coming in . 
Ahem ! a little , a little . 
replies the Wolf , pretending to cough . 
Shut the door well , my little lamb . 
Put your basket on the table , and then take off your frock and come and lie down by me you shall rest a little . 
The good child undresses , but observe this ! She kept her little hood upon her head . 
When she saw what a figure her Granny cut in bed , the poor little thing was much surprised . 
Oh ! cries she , how like you are to friend Wolf , Grandmother ! That's on account of my night cap , child , replies the Wolf . 
Oh ! what hairy arms you've got , Grandmother ! All the better to hug you , my child . 
Oh ! what a big tongue you've got , Grandmother ! All the better for answering , child . 
Oh ! what a mouthful of great white teeth you have , Grandmother ! That's for crunching little children with ! And the Wolf opened his jaws wide to swallow Blanchette . 
But she put down her head crying Mamma ! Mamma ! and the Wolf only caught her little hood . 
Thereupon , oh dear ! oh dear ! he draws back , crying and shaking his jaw as if he had swallowed red hot coals . 
It was the little fire coloured hood that had burnt his tongue right down his throat . 
The little hood , you see , was one of those magic caps that they used to have in former times , in the stories , for making oneself invisible or invulnerable . 
Just at this moment the Grandmother arrives , returning from the town with her long sack empty on her shoulder . 
Ah , brigand ! she cries , wait a bit ! Quickly she opens her sack wide across the door , and the maddened Wolf springs in head downwards . 
It is he now that is caught , swallowed like a letter in the post . 
For the brave old dame shuts her sack , so and she runs and empties it in the well , where the vagabond , still howling , tumbles in and is drowned . 
Thereupon the Grandmother hastened to dress poor Blanchette , who was still trembling with fear in the bed . 
And then , who was it who scolded her when she knew all that had happened ? It was the mother . 
But Blanchette promised over and over again that she would never more stop to listen to a Wolf , so that at last the mother forgave her . 
And Blanchette , the Little Golden hood , kept her word . 
And in fine weather she may still be seen in the fields with her pretty little hood , the colour of the sun . 
But to see her you must rise early . 
This King Grumpy , as he was called , had one son , who was as different from his father as he could possibly be . 
No prince equalled him in cleverness and kindness of heart , but unfortunately he was most terribly ugly . 
He had crooked legs and squinting eyes , a large mouth all on one side , and a hunchback . 
Never was there a beautiful soul in such a frightful little body , but in spite of his appearance everybody loved him . 
The Queen , his mother , called him Curlicue , because it was a name she rather liked , and it seemed to suit him . 
The Prince after one glance at it turned away with a disdainful air , which greatly offended his father . 
Am I to understand that you are not pleased ? he said very sharply . 
No , sire , replied the Prince . 
That is the very reason , said the Prince , that I wish to marry someone who is not ugly . 
I am quite tired enough of seeing myself . 
I tell you that you shall marry her , cried King Grumpy angrily . 
And the Prince , seeing that it was of no use to remonstrate , bowed and retired . 
But when he looked at them he found that they were written in a forgotten language , and he could not understand a single word , though he amused himself with trying . 
Sire , she answered , I do not wish to complain , only I beg of you do not make me marry at all . 
I had rather be the unhappy Princess Cabbage Stalk all my life than inflict the sight of my ugliness on anyone else . 
But the King would not listen to her , and sent her away with the ambassadors . 
But all the Princess guards were so fond of him that they did everything they dared , in spite of the King , to make the time pass pleasantly . 
But his surprise was great to find that they represented the same scenes as the windows of the gallery , and what was more , that they seemed to be alive . 
Try to give us our Queen again , for if you do you will be rewarded if not , it will be the worse for you . 
At these words the Prince , who had been growing more and more astonished , was fairly terrified , and dropping the book with a crash he sank back insensible . 
The noise he made brought his guards to his aid , and as soon as he revived they asked him what was the matter . 
He answered that he was so faint and giddy with hunger that he had imagined he saw and heard all sorts of strange things . 
So he went up into the turret and began to search about and tap upon the walls , and all at once he came upon a place that sounded hollow . 
Taking a hammer he broke away a bit of the stone , and found behind it a little golden key . 
Ugly and old as the cabinet was outside , nothing could have been more rich and beautiful than what met the Prince's astonished eyes . 
Every drawer was made of crystal , of amber , or of some precious stone , and was quite full of every kind of treasure . 
Prince Curlicue was delighted he opened one after another , until at last he came to one tiny drawer which contained only an emerald key . 
I believe that this must open that little golden door in the middle , said the Prince to himself . 
And he fitted in the little key and turned it . 
The tiny door swung back , and a soft crimson light gleamed over the whole cabinet . 
The Prince found that it proceeded from an immense glowing carbuncle , made into a box , which lay before him . 
He lost no time in opening it , but what was his horror when he found that it contained a man's hand , which was holding a portrait . 
The voice ceased , and though the Prince in his bewilderment asked various questions , he received no answer . 
So he put back the box and locked the cabinet up again , and , having replaced the key in the crack in the wall , hastened down to the gallery . 
He went up and examined it , and found that it rested against the ebony and gold panelling , just like any of the other pictures in the gallery . 
The walls were of turquoises , and upon a low couch lay a lovely lady , who seemed to be asleep . 
This he presented to the Prince , who guessed by this time that he was in some way to break the enchantment that surrounded the sleeping lady . 
Instantly the lady opened her lustrous eyes , and saw the Eagle hovering near . 
Ah ! stay , dear love , stay , she cried . 
But the Eagle , uttering a dolorous cry , fluttered his broad wings and disappeared . 
Then the lady turned to Prince Curlicue , and said I know that it is to you I owe my deliverance from an enchantment which has held me for two hundred years . 
If there is anything that I can do for you in return , you have only to tell me , and all my fairy power shall be used to make you happy . 
Madam , said Prince Curlicue , I wish to be allowed to restore your beloved Florimond to his natural form , since I cannot forget the tears you shed for him . 
That is very amiable of you , dear Prince , said the Fairy , but it is reserved for another person to do that . 
I cannot explain more at present . 
But is there nothing you wish for yourself ? Madam , cried the Prince , flinging himself down at her feet , only look at my ugliness . 
I am called Curlicue , and am an object of derision I entreat you to make me less ridiculous . 
Rise , Prince , said the Fairy , touching him with the Golden Branch . 
Be as accomplished as you are handsome , and take the name of Prince Peerless , since that is the only title which will suit you now . 
Fly from the tower , Prince , and remember that the Fairy Douceline will be your friend always . 
And there we must leave him for the present , and see what was happening elsewhere . 
So he sent back to the guards to say that the Prince was to be treated as severely as before , which was just what they had hoped he would say . 
In the meantime the Princess Cabbage Stalk had reached the palace , travelling in a litter . 
This made King Grumpy very angry . 
Your father has sent you here to marry my son , he said , and you may be sure that I am not going to offend him by altering his arrangements . 
So the poor Princess was sent away in disgrace to her own apartments , and the ladies who attended upon her were charged to bring her to a better mind . 
He at once made up his mind that it was entirely the Princess's fault , and gave orders that she should be imprisoned in the tower in Prince Curlicue's place . 
They seem to have taken a great delight in painting me since I came to this country , she said to herself . 
One would think that I and my crutch were put in on purpose to make that slim , charming young shepherdess in the next picture look prettier by contrast . 
Ah ! how nice it would be to be as pretty as that . 
And then she looked at herself in a mirror , and turned away quickly with tears in her eyes from the doleful sight . 
Princess , she said , your regrets are so piteous that I have come to offer you the choice of goodness or beauty . 
If you wish to be pretty you shall have your way , but you will also be vain , capricious , and frivolous . 
If you remain as you are now , you shall be wise and amiable and modest . 
See , I have brought with me my white and yellow muff . 
Breathe upon the white side and your looks will not alter , but you will grow better and happier day by day . 
Ah well , said the Princess , I suppose one can't have everything , and it's certainly better to be good than pretty . 
And so she breathed upon the white side of the muff and thanked the old fairy , who immediately disappeared . 
The Princess Cabbage Stalk felt very forlorn when she was gone , and began to think that it was quite time her father sent an army to rescue her . 
If I could but get up into the turret , she thought , to see if any one is coming . 
But to climb up there seemed impossible . 
Nevertheless she presently hit upon a plan . 
The great clock was in the turret , as she knew , though the weights hung down into the gallery . 
Taking one of them off the rope , she tied herself on in its place , and when the clock was wound , up she went triumphantly into the turret . 
Out fell the broken stone , and with it the golden key . 
The clatter it made upon the floor attracted the Princess Cabbage Stalk's attention . 
She picked it up , and after a moment's consideration decided that it must belong to the curious old cabinet in the corner , which had no visible keyhole . 
No sooner had she opened it than with a shudder of horror she tried to throw it down , but found that some mysterious power compelled her to hold it against her will . 
And at this moment a voice in her ear said softly Take courage , Princess upon this adventure your future happiness depends . 
What am I to do ? said the Princess trembling . 
Take the box , replied the voice , and hide it under your pillow , and when you see an Eagle , give it to him without losing a moment . 
Terrified as the Princess was , she did not hesitate to obey , and hastened to put back all the other precious things precisely as she had found them . 
By this time her guards were seeking her everywhere , and they were amazed to find her up in the turret , for they said she could only have got there by magic . 
Limping across at her utmost speed she threw the window open , and the great Eagle sailed in beating with his wings for joy . 
Princess , said he , for two hundred years has a wicked enchanter kept me here . 
We both loved the same Fairy , but she pre ferred me . 
The Fairy who watches over your destiny told me this , and it was she who guided you to the cabinet in the turret , where she had placed my hand . 
It is she also who permits me to show my gratitude to you by granting whatever favour you may ask of me . 
She grew tall and straight and pretty , with eyes like shining stars , and a skin as white as milk . 
Oh , wonderful ! can this really be my poor little self ? she exclaimed , looking down in amazement at her tiny worn out crutch as it lay upon the floor . 
Indeed , Princess , replied Florimond , it is yourself , but you must have a new name , since the old one does not suit you now . 
Be called Princess Sunbeam , for you are bright and charming enough to deserve the name . 
And so saying he disappeared , and the Princess , without knowing how she got there , found herself walking under shady trees by a clear river . 
To complete the resemblance , her flock of sheep appeared , grazing round her , and she found a gay crook adorned with flowers upon the bank of the river . 
Quite tired out by so many new and wonderful experiences , the Princess sat down to rest at the foot of a tree , and there she fell fast asleep . 
He was still watching her admiringly when the Princess opened her eyes , and as she also recognised him they were soon great friends . 
So they went there together , and the Princess was charmed with the old woman and everything belonging to her . 
Supper was soon spread for her under a shady tree , and she invited the Prince to share the cream and brown bread which the old woman provided . 
This he was delighted to do , and having first fetched from his own garden all the strawberries , cherries , nuts and flowers he could find . 
they sat down together and were very merry . 
The hangings were all of bats' wings , and from the ceiling hung twelve cats , who filled the hall with their ear piercing yells . 
The Princess was looking at the poor creatures in dismay , when the Enchanter suddenly entered , wearing a long black robe and with a crocodile upon his head . 
They are princes and princesses who have happened to offend me . 
They used to love one another as much as they now hate one another . 
Aha ! It's a pretty little revenge to keep them like that . 
Oh ! If you would only change me into a mouse too , cried the Princess . 
Oh ! so you won't marry me ? said he . 
Little simpleton , you should have everything heart can desire . 
No , indeed nothing should make me marry you in fact , I don't think I shall ever love anyone , cried the Princess . 
Off with you , Madam Grasshopper . 
And the Princess , rejoicing to find herself free once more , skipped out into the garden , the prettiest little green Grasshopper in the world . 
But as soon as she was safely out she began to be rather sorry for herself . 
I had better have married my amiable shepherd . 
She was quaintly dressed in a ruff and farthingale , and a velvet hood covered her snow white hair . 
You seem sorrowful , my son , she said . 
Go that way , my son , said the old woman , pointing towards the path that led to the castle . 
I have an idea that you will soon overtake her . 
The Prince thanked her heartily and set out . 
As he met with no hindrance , he soon reached the enchanted wood which surrounded the castle , and there he thought he saw the Princess Sunbeam gliding before him among the trees . 
Prince Peerless hastened after her at the top of his speed , but could not get any nearer then he called to her Sunbeam , my darling only wait for me a moment . 
But the phantom did but fly the faster , and the Prince spent the whole day in this vain pursuit . 
When night came he saw the castle before him all lighted up , and as he imagined that the Princess must be in it , he made haste to get there too . 
He entered without difficulty , and in the hall the terrible old Fairy met him . 
Nevertheless she wore rouge and patches , a mantle of silver brocade and a crown of diamonds , and her dress was covered with jewels , and green and pink ribbons . 
At last you have come to see me , Prince , said she . 
Don't waste another thought upon that little shepherdess , who is unworthy of your notice . 
I am the Queen of the Comets , and can bring you to great honour if you will marry me . 
Marry you , Madam , cried the Prince , in horror . 
No , I will never consent to that . 
Thereupon the Fairy , in a rage , gave two strokes of her wand and filled the gallery with horrible goblins , against whom the Prince had to fight for his life . 
The Prince was distracted , for he fancied he heard his dear shepherdess weeping and begging him to save her . 
Thus encouraged , the Prince persevered in his refusal , and at length the old Fairy in a fury cried Get out of my sight , obstinate Prince . 
What ! can you speak ? said he . 
Why should I not speak as well as you ? Isn't a Grasshopper as good as a Cricket ? said she . 
I can talk because I was a Prince , said the Cricket . 
And for that very same reason I ought to be able to talk more than you , for I was a Princess , replied the Grasshopper . 
Then you have met with the same fate as I have , said he . 
Ah , Madam , said the fatter of the two , I have such a pain in my side from running so fast . 
You know the way then ? said the other . 
Oh dear , yes ! as well as the way to my own house , Madam . 
This Golden Branch is indeed a marvel , a single leaf from it makes one rich for ever . 
It breaks enchantments , and makes all who approach it young and beautiful . 
We must set out for it at the break of day . 
May we have the honour of travelling with you this respectable Cricket and myself ? said the Grasshopper , stepping forward . 
We also are on a pilgrimage to the Golden Branch . 
The Mice courteously assented , and after many polite speeches the whole party fell asleep . 
With the earliest dawn they were on their way , and though the Mice were in constant fear of being overtaken or trapped , they reached the Golden Branch in safety . 
It grew in the midst of a wonderful garden , all the paths of which were strewn with pearls as big as peas . 
The roses were crimson diamonds , with emerald leaves . 
The Golden Branch itself had become as tall as a forest tree , and sparkled with ruby cherries to its topmost twig . 
No sooner had the Grasshopper and the Cricket touched it than they were restored to their natural forms , and their surprise and joy were great when they recognised each other . 
Don't hesitate , Princess , to tell your devoted shepherd how dearly you love him , as he is the very Prince your father sent you to marry . 
So come here both of you and let me crown you , and we will have the wedding at once . 
Really , said the Fairy Douceline , on this happy occasion I cannot find it in my heart to refuse you anything . 
To complete her generous work the Fairy presented them with the wonderful cabinet and all the treasures it contained , which were worth at least ten kingdoms . 
The two girls were great friends and used often to play together . 
The girl went straight home and told her father what the woman had said . 
What am I to do ? he answered . 
Marriage is either a success or it is a failure . 
If it holds water I will marry again , but if it doesn't I won't . 
The girl did as she was bid , but the water drew the hole together and the boot filled up to the very top . 
So she went and told her father the result . 
On the second morning , water to wash in and water to drink was standing for the man's daughter as well . 
The woman hated her stepdaughter from the bottom of her heart , and did all she could to make her life miserable . 
She was as jealous as she could possibly be , because the girl was so beautiful and charming , while her own daughter was both ugly and repulsive . 
How dare you contradict me ! said her stepmother be off with you at once , and don't show your face again till you have filled the basket with strawberries . 
The girl was so obedient that she put on the paper dress and set out with her little basket . 
There was nothing but snow far and near , and not a green blade of grass to be seen anywhere . 
When she came to the wood she saw a little house , and out of it peeped three little dwarfs . 
She wished them good day , and knocked modestly at the door . 
They called out to her to enter , so she stepped in and sat down on a seat by the fire , wishing to warm herself and eat her breakfast . 
The Dwarfs said at once Give us some of your food ! Gladly , she said , and breaking her crust in two , she gave them the half . 
Then they asked her what she was doing in the depths of winter in her thin dress . 
Oh , she answered , I have been sent to get a basketful of strawberries , and I daren't show my face again at home till I bring them with me . 
When she had finished her bread they gave her a broom and told her to sweep away the snow from the back door . 
The first said Every day she shall grow prettier . 
The second Every time she opens her mouth a piece of gold shall fall out . 
And the third A King shall come and marry her . 
When she walked in and said Good evening , a piece of gold fell out of her mouth . 
But her mother refused to let her go , saying My dear child , it is far too cold you might freeze to death . 
The girl went straight to the little house in the wood , and as before the three little men were looking out of the window . 
Give us some , cried the Dwarfs . 
But she answered No , I won't , it's hardly enough for myself so catch me giving you any . 
When she had finished eating they said There's a broom for you , go and clear up our back door . 
I'll see myself further , she answered rudely . 
Do it yourselves I'm not your servant . 
When she saw that they did not mean to give her anything , she left the house in no amiable frame of mind . 
The first said She shall grow uglier every day . 
The second Every time she speaks a toad shall jump out of her mouth . 
And the third She shall die a most miserable death . 
The girl searched for strawberries , but she found none , and returned home in a very bad temper . 
When she opened her mouth to tell her mother what had befallen her in the wood , a toad jumped out , so that everyone was quite disgusted with her . 
Then the stepmother was more furious than ever , and did nothing but plot mischief against the man's daughter , who was daily growing more and more beautiful . 
At last , one day the wicked woman took a large pot , put it on the fire and boiled some yarn in it . 
Her stepdaughter obeyed as usual , and went and broke a hole in the ice . 
When she was in the act of wringing out the yarn a magnificent carriage passed , and the King sat inside . 
So she stepped into the carriage and drove away with the King , and when they reached his palace the wedding was celebrated with much splendour . 
So all turned out just as the three little Dwarfs had said . 
After a year the Queen gave birth to a little son . 
When her stepmother heard of her good fortune she came to the palace with her daughter by way of paying a call , and took up her abode there . 
Then the stepmother laid her ugly daughter in the Queen's place , and covered her up with the clothes , so that nothing of her was seen . 
The King suspected no evil , and didn't come again till next morning . 
When he spoke to his wife and she answered him , instead of the usual piece of gold a toad jumped out of her mouth . 
Then he asked what it meant , and the old woman told him it was nothing but weakness , and that she would soon be all right again . 
Then the Duck went on And what about my baby dear ? and he answered Oh , it sleeps soundly , never fear . 
This was repeated for two nights , and on the third the Duck said to the Scullion Go and tell the King to swing his sword three times over me on the threshold . 
The King rejoiced greatly , but he kept the Queen in hiding till the Sunday on which the child was to be christened . 
Then it was fastened down securely , and the barrel was rolled down the hill till it fell into the river . 
When he had walked a long way , he came to a King's palace . 
There he asked for a place and got it . 
Shall I , then , receive nothing at all of my inheritance ? asked the youth . 
Who could know that you were still alive you who have been a wanderer so long ? answered the brothers . 
So the youth , well pleased with this , thanked them , and at once set off to the hill where the twelve mares were at pasture . 
When he got up there and found them , each mare had her foal , and by the side of one of them was a big dapple grey foal as well . 
which was so sleek that it shone again . 
Well , my little foal , you are a fine fellow ! said the youth . 
So the youth did this he killed all the twelve foals , and then went back again . 
But now you shall come away with me . 
No , said the dappled Colt once more here I must stay for another year . 
Just kill the twelve little foals again , so that I can suck the mares this year also , and then come and look at me in the summer . 
So the youth did it he killed all the little foals , and then went home again . 
But next year , when he returned to look after the dappled colt and the mares , he was quite appalled . 
For this year also each mare had her foal . 
So the lad promised not to forget to do that . 
He rode to the palace , and it will be easily understood that with such a horse as he had he was not long on the way . 
Yes but I must have a good stable and most excellent fodder for my horse , said he . 
He went down into the stable , and very sad and full of care he was . 
Oh , but it might be done , said Dapplegrim . 
I will help you but you must first have me well shod . 
You must ask for ten pounds of iron and twelve pounds of steel for the shoeing , and one smith to hammer and one to hold . 
So the youth did this , and no one said him nay . 
Thou shalt have my thanks for setting my Princess free , he said , when the youth came into the palace with her , and was then about to go away . 
She ought to be just as much my Princess as she is yours now , for you are a man of your word , said the youth . 
Yes , yes , said the King . 
Have her thou shalt , as I have said it but first of all thou must make the sun shine into my palace here . 
For there was a large and high hill outside the windows which overshadowed the palace so much that the sun could not shine in . 
That was no part of our bargain , answered the youth . 
But as nothing that I can say will move you , I suppose I shall have to try to do my best , for the Princess I will have . 
The youth went down to the stable again , and very sad and sorrowful he was , as anyone may well imagine . 
But it will not be easy to get him , for he is underground . 
However , we will try . 
That is all the wild birds in the forest flying about they are sent to stop us , said Dapplegrim . 
But just cut a hole in the corn sacks , and then they will be so busy with the corn that they will forget us . 
Yes now I hear such a dreadful crackling and crashing in the forest on every side that I think I shall be really afraid , said the youth . 
That is all the wild beasts in the forest , said Dapplegrim they are sent out to stop us . 
But just throw out the twelve carcasses of the oxen , and they will be so much occupied with them that they will quite forget us . 
But when they caught sight of the carcasses of the oxen they began to fight for them till the blood flowed , and they entirely forgot Dapplegrim and the youth . 
Do you hear anything ? he said . 
Yes I heard something like a foal neighing quite plainly a long , long way off , answered the youth . 
That's a full grown colt , said Dapplegrim , if you hear it so plainly when it is so far away from us . 
So they travelled onwards a long time , and saw one new scene after another once more . 
Do you hear anything now ? said he . 
Yes now I heard it quite distinctly , and it neighed like a full grown horse , answered the youth . 
Yes , and you will hear it again very soon , said Dapplegrim and then you will hear what a voice it has . 
Now he is here ! said Dapplegrim . 
When he comes , fire will spurt out of both his nostrils , and then the tar will catch fire . 
They bit , and they fought with their fore legs and their hind legs , and sometimes the youth looked at them . 
This horse was dappled too , and so like Dapplegrim that no one could distinguish the one from the other . 
The youth seated himself on the dappled horse which he had captured , and rode home again to the King's palace , and Dapplegrim ran loose by his side . 
When he got there , the King was standing outside in the courtyard . 
Can you tell me which is the horse I have caught , and which is the one I had before ? said the youth . 
If you can't , I think your daughter is mine . 
She shall hide herself twice , and then thou shalt hide thyself twice . 
That , too , was not in our bargain , said the youth . 
But we will make this trial since it must be so . 
So the King's daughter was to hide herself first . 
Then she changed herself into a duck , and lay swimming in a lake that was just outside the palace . 
But the youth went down into the stable and asked Dapplegrim what she had done with herself . 
The youth snatched up his gun and ran to the lake . 
I will just have a shot at that duck , said he , and began to aim at it . 
Oh , no , dear friend , don't shoot ! It is I , said the Princess . 
So he had found her once . 
I will have a bit of this bread for myself , said he . 
No , dear friend , don't cut , it is I ! said the Princess again so he had found her the second time . 
And now it was his turn to go and hide himself but Dapplegrim had given him such good instructions that it was not easy to find him . 
First he turned himself into a horse fly , and hid himself in Dapplegrim's left nostril . 
Well , said she , as I am unable to find you , you must show yourself whereupon the youth immediately appeared standing there on the stable floor . 
Once more the King's daughter went and sought everywhere , inside and outside , until at last she came into the stable , and wanted to go into the stall beside Dapplegrim . 
Now you are mine ! said he to the Princess . 
Now you can see that it is fated that she should be mine , he said to the King . 
Yes , fated it is , said the King . 
So what must be , must . 
Then everything was made ready for the wedding with great splendour and promptitude , and the youth rode to church on Dapplegrim , and the King's daughter on the other horse . 
So everyone must see that they could not be long on their way thither . 
Instead of chatting with them in the dusk , he wandered about the woods , whispering to the moon . 
What is the matter with you ? his father often said to him . 
You have everything you can possibly wish for a good bed , good food , and tuns full of beer . 
The only thing you want , in order to become as fat as a pig , is a wife that can bring you broad , rich lands . 
So marry , and you will be perfectly happy . 
I ask nothing better than to marry , replied Desire , but I have never seen a woman that pleases me . 
All the girls here are pink and white , and I am tired to death of their eternal lilie and roses . 
That evening Tubby and his son ate the golden apples at supper , and thought them delicious . 
Next morning as the day dawned , Desire went down to the stable and saddled his pretty white horse . 
Then he went , all dressed for a journey , to the bedside of Tubby , and found him smoking his first pipe . 
Father , he said gravely , I have come to bid you farewell . 
Last night I dreamed that I was walking in a wood , where the trees were covered with golden apples . 
I gathered one of them , and when I opened it there came out a lovely princess with a golden skin . 
That is the wife I want , and I am going to look for her . 
He jumped lightly on his horse , and was a mile from home before Tubby had ceased laughing . 
A yellow wife ! He must be mad ! fit for a strait waistcoat ! cried the good man , when he was able to speak . 
Here ! quick ! bring him back to me . 
III When Desire thought they could no longer catch him , he pulled his horse into a walk , like a prudent man who knows he has far to go . 
At last one day at sunset Desire felt the sun so warm , that he thought he must now be near the place of his dream . 
He was at that moment close to the corner of a wood where stood a little hut , before the door of which his horse stopped of his own accord . 
An old man with a white beard was sitting on the doorstep enjoying the fresh air . 
The Prince got down from his horse and asked leave to rest . 
Come in , my young friend , said the old man my house is not large , but it is big enough to hold a stranger . 
The traveller entered , and his host put before him a simple meal . 
When his hunger was satisfied the old man said to him If I do not mistake , you come from far . 
May I ask where you are going ? I will tell you , answered Desire , though most likely you will laugh at me . 
It is she I am seeking . 
Why should I laugh ? asked the old man . 
Madness in youth is true wisdom . 
Go , young man , follow your dream , and if you do not find the happiness that you seek , at any rate you will have had the happiness of seeking it . 
IV The next day the Prince arose early and took leave of his host . 
The wood that you saw in your dream is not far from here , said the old man . 
It is in the depth of the forest , and this road will lead you there . 
You will come to a vast park surrounded by high walls . 
In the middle of the park is a castle , where dwells a horrible witch who allows no living being to enter the doors . 
Behind the castle is the orange grove . 
Follow the wall till you come to a heavy iron gate . 
Don't try to press it open , but oil the hinges with this , and the old man gave him a small bottle . 
Next , you will see a baking woman leaning over her heated oven . 
Lastly , you will find a well on your left do not forget to take the cord of the bucket and spread it in the sun . 
When you have done this , do not enter the castle , but go round it and enter the orange grove . 
Then gather three oranges , and get back to the gate as fast as you can . 
Once out of the gate , leave the forest by the opposite side . 
Now , attend to this whatever happens , do not open your oranges till you reach the bank of a river , or a fountain . 
Out of each orange will come a princess , and you can choose which you like for your wife . 
V Desire thanked his host warmly , and took the road he pointed out . 
In less than an hour he arrived at the wall , which was very high indeed . 
He sprang to the ground , fastened his horse to a tree , and soon found the iron gate . 
Then he took out his bottle and oiled the hinges , when the gate opened of itself , and he saw an old castle standing inside . 
The Prince entered boldly into the courtyard . 
Desire flung him the oat cake , which the great dog instantly snapped up , and the young Prince passed quietly on . 
A few yards further he saw a huge oven , with a wide , red hot gaping mouth . 
A woman as tall as a giant was leaning over the oven . 
Desire gave her the brush , which she took in silence . 
Then he went on to the well , drew up the cord , which was half rotten , and stretched it out in the sun . 
Lastly he went round the castle , and plunged into the orange grove . 
There he gathered the three most beautiful oranges he could find , and turned to go back to the gate . 
YOU never cared to give me a brush but he has given me one , and he shall go in peace . 
Rope , O rope ! cried the voice again , twine yourself round his neck and strangle him . 
No , replied the rope you have left me for many years past to fall to pieces with the damp . 
He has stretched me out in the sun . 
Let him go in peace . 
Dog , my good dog , cried the voice , more and more angry , jump at his throat and eat him up . 
No , replied the dog though I have served you long , you never gave me any bread . 
He has given me as much as I want . 
Let him go in peace . 
Iron gate , iron gate , cried the voice , growling like thunder , fall on him and grind him to powder . 
No , replied the gate it is a hundred years since you left me to rust , and he has oiled me . 
Let him go in peace . 
VI Once outside , the young adventurer put his oranges into a bag that hung from his saddle , mounted his horse , and rode quickly out of the forest . 
Still his heart was light , for he felt that he had got through the most difficult part of his task , and the rest was easy . 
About mid day he reached a sandy plain , scorching in the sun . 
Here he was seized with dreadful thirst he took his gourd and raised it to his lips . 
But the gourd was empty in the excitement of his joy he had forgotten to fill it . 
He rode on , struggling with his sufferings , but at last he could bear it no longer . 
He let himself slide to the earth , and lay down beside his horse , his throat burning , his chest heaving , and his head going round . 
Already he felt that death was near him , when his eyes fell on the bag where the oranges peeped out . 
Ah ! he said to himself . 
If only these oranges were real fruit fruit as refreshing as what I ate in Flanders ! And , after all , who knows ? This idea put some life into him . 
He had the strength to lift himself up and put his hand into his bag . 
He drew out an orange and opened it with his knife . 
Out of it flew the prettiest little female canary that ever was seen . 
Give me something to drink , I am dying of thirst , said the golden bird . 
Out of it flew another canary , and she too began to cry I am dying of thirst give me something to drink . 
Then Tubby's son saw his folly , and while the two canaries flew away he sank on the ground , where , exhausted by his last effort , he lay unconscious . 
VII When he came to himself , he had a pleasant feeling of freshness all about him . 
It was night , the sky was sparkling with stars , and the earth was covered with a heavy dew . 
The traveller having recovered , mounted his horse , and at the first streak of dawn he saw a stream dancing in front of him , and stooped down and drank his fill . 
He hardly had courage to open his last orange . 
Then he remembered that the night before he had disobeyed the orders of the old man . 
Alas ! out of it flew a little canary , just like the others , who cried I am thirsty give me something to drink . 
Great was the disappointment of Desire . 
However , he was determined not to let this bird fly away so he took up some water in the palm of his hand and held it to its beak . 
Scarcely had the canary drunk when she became a beautiful girl , tall and straight as a poplar tree , with black eyes and a golden skin . 
Desire had never seen anyone half so lovely , and he stood gazing at her in delight . 
On her side she seemed quite bewildered , but she looked about her with happy eyes , and was not at all afraid of her deliverer . 
Well , then , my charming Zizi , said the young Prince , who was longing to marry her , let us ride away quickly so as to escape from the wicked witch . 
But Zizi wished to know where he meant to take her . 
To my father's castle , he said . 
He mounted his horse and took her in front of him , and , holding her carefully in his arms , they began their journey . 
VIII Everything the Princess saw was new to her , and in passing through mountains , valleys , and towns , she asked a thousand questions . 
Desire was charmed to answer them . 
It is so delightful to teach those one loves ! Once she inquired what the girls in his country were like . 
They are pink and white , he replied , and their eyes are blue . 
Do you like blue eyes ? said the Princess but Desire thought it was a good opportunity to find out what was in her heart , so he did not answer . 
And no doubt , went on the Princess , one of them is your intended bride ? Still he was silent , and Zizi drew herself up proudly . 
No , he said at last . 
None of the girls of my own country are beautiful in my eyes , and that is why I came to look for a wife in the land of the sun . 
Was I wrong , my lovely Zizi ? This time it was Zizi's turn to be silent . 
IX Talking in this way they drew near to the castle . 
When they were about four stone throws from the gates they dismounted in the forest , by the edge of a fountain . 
My dear Zizi , said Tubby's son , we cannot present ourselves before my father like two common people who have come back from a walk . 
We must enter the castle with more ceremony . 
Wait for me here , and in an hour I will return with carriages and horses fit for a princess . 
Don't be long , replied Zizi , and she watched him go with wistful eyes . 
When she was left by herself the poor girl began to feel afraid . 
She was alone for the first time in her life , and in the middle of a thick forest . 
Suddenly she heard a noise among the trees . 
Fearing lest it should be a wolf , she hid herself in the hollow trunk of a willow tree which hung over the fountain . 
It was big enough to hold her altogether , but she peeped out , and her pretty head was reflected in the clear water . 
Then there appeared , not a wolf , but a creature quite as wicked and quite as ugly . 
Let us see who this creature was . 
X Not far from the fountain there lived a family of bricklayers . 
Now , fifteen years before this time , the father in walking through the forest found a little girl , who had been deserted by the gypsies . 
He carried her home to his wife , and the good woman was sorry for her , and brought her up with her own sons . 
As she grew older , the little gypsy became much more remarkable for strength and cunning than for sense or beauty . 
She had a low forehead , a flat nose , thick lips , coarse hair , and a skin not golden like that of Zizi , but the colour of clay . 
As she was always being teased about her complexion , she got as noisy and cross as a titmouse . 
So they used to call her Titty . 
Titty was often sent by the bricklayer to fetch water from the fountain , and as she was very proud and lazy the gypsy disliked this very much . 
It was she who had frightened Zizi by appearing with her pitcher on her shoulder . 
Just as she was stooping to fill it , she saw reflected in the water the lovely image of the Princess . 
Where is your pitcher ? asked the bricklayer . 
Well , what do you expect ? The pitcher may go many times to the well . 
But at last it is broken . 
Well , here is a bucket that will not break . 
The gypsy returned to the fountain , and addressing once more the image of Zizi , she said No I don't mean to be a beast of burden any longer . 
And she flung the bucket so high in the air that it stuck in the branches of an oak . 
I met a wolf , she told the bricklayer , and I broke the bucket across his nose . 
The bricklayer asked her no more questions , but took down a broom and gave her such a beating that her pride was humbled a little . 
Then he handed to her an old copper milk can , and said If you don't bring it back full , your bones shall suffer for it . 
XI Titty went off rubbing her sides but this time she did not dare to disobey , and in a very bad temper stooped down over the well . 
It was not at all easy to fill the milk can , which was large and round . 
It would not go down into the well , and the gypsy had to try again and again . 
On seeing the can disappear , she made such a miserable face that Zizi , who had been watching her all this time , burst into fits of laughter . 
Titty turned round and perceived the mistake she had made and she felt so angry that she made up her mind to be revenged at once . 
What are you doing there , you lovely creature ? she said to Zizi . 
I am waiting for my lover , Zizi replied and then , with a simplicity quite natural in a girl who so lately had been a canary , she told all her story . 
The gypsy had often seen the young Prince pass by , with his gun on his shoulder , when he was going after crows . 
Dear , dear ! she said to herself . 
So he likes yellow women ! Why , I am yellow too , and if I could only think of a way It was not long before she did think of it . 
No sooner did Zizi feel the prick of the pin than she became a bird again , and , spreading her wings , she flew away . 
That was neatly done , said the gypsy . 
The Prince will be clever if he finds his bride . 
And , arranging her dress , she seated herself on the grass to await Desire . 
XII Meanwhile the Prince was coming as fast as his horse could carry him . 
He was so impatient that he was always full fifty yards in front of the lords and ladies sent by Tubby to bring back Zizi . 
At the sight of the hideous gypsy he was struck dumb with surprise and horror . 
Ah me ! said Titty , so you don't know your poor Zizi ? While you were away the wicked witch came , and turned me into this . 
But if you only have the courage to marry me I shall get back my beauty . 
And she began to cry bitterly . 
Now the good natured Desire was as soft hearted as he was brave . 
Poor girl , he thought to himself . 
It is not her fault , after all , that she has grown so ugly , it is mine . 
So he presented the gypsy to the lords and ladies of the Court , explaining to them the terrible misfortune which had befallen his beautiful bride . 
They all pretended to believe it , and the ladies at once put on the false princess the rich dresses they had brought for Zizi . 
She was then perched on the top of a magnificent ambling palfrey , and they set forth to the castle . 
But unluckily the rich dress and jewels only made Titty look uglier still , and Desire could not help feeling hot and uncomfortable when he made his entry with her into the city . 
In order to do her more honour , Tubby came to meet her at the foot of the great marble staircase . 
At the sight of the hideous creature he almost fell backwards . 
Is this the wonderful beauty ? Yes , father , it is she , replied Desire with a sheepish look . 
But she has been bewitched by a wicked sorceress , and will not regain her beauty until she is my wife . 
Does she say so ? Well , if you believe that , you may drink cold water and think it bacon , the unhappy Tubby answered crossly . 
But all the same , as he adored his son , he gave the gypsy his hand and led her to the great hall , where the bridal feast was spread . 
XIII The feast was excellent , but Desire hardly touched anything . 
However , to make up , the other guests ate greedily , and , as for Tubby , nothing ever took away his appetite . 
When the moment arrived to serve the roast goose , there was a pause , and Tubby took the opportunity to lay down his knife and fork for a little . 
But as the goose gave no sign of appearing , he sent his head carver to find out what was the matter in the kitchen . 
Now this was what had happened . 
While the goose was turning on the spit , a beautiful little canary hopped on to the sill of the open window . 
Good morning , my fine cook , she said in a silvery voice to the man who was watching the roast . 
Good morning , lovely golden bird , replied the chief of the scullions , who had been well brought up . 
I pray that Heaven may send you to sleep , said the golden bird , and that the goose may burn , so that there may be none left for Titty . 
And instantly the chief of the scullions fell fast asleep , and the goose was burnt to a cinder . 
When he awoke he was horrified , and gave orders to pluck another goose , to stuff it with chestnuts , and put it on the spit . 
While it was browning at the fire , Tubby inquired for his goose a second time . 
The Master Cook himself mounted to the hall to make his excuses , and to beg his lord to have a little patience . 
Tubby showed his patience by abusing his son . 
As if it wasn't enough , he grumbled between his teeth , that the boy should pick up a hag without a penny , but the goose must go and burn now . 
It isn't a wife he has brought me , it is Famine herself . 
I pray Heaven , went on the Canary , that it will send you to sleep , and that the goose may burn , so that there may be none left for Titty . 
And the Scullion fell fast asleep , and when the Master Cook came back he found the goose as black as the chimney . 
In a fury he woke the Scullion , who in order to save himself from blame told the whole story . 
That accursed bird , said the Cook it will end by getting me sent away . 
Come , some of you , and hide yourselves , and if it comes again , catch it and wring its neck . 
He spitted a third goose , lit a huge fire , and seated himself by it . 
The bird appeared a third time , and said Good morning , my fine Cook . 
The bird flew into the kitchen . 
Then all the cooks and scullions sprang after it , knocking at it with their aprons . 
At length one of them caught it just at the very moment that Tubby entered the kitchen , waving his sceptre . 
He had come to see for himself why the goose had never made its appearance . 
The Scullion stopped at once , just as he was about to wring the Canary's neck . 
XV Will some one be kind enough to tell me the meaning of all this ? cried the Lord of Avesnes . 
Your Excellency , it is the bird , replied the Scullion , and he placed it in his hand . 
Nonsense ! What a lovely bird ! said Tubby , and in stroking its head he touched a pin that was sticking between its feathers . 
He pulled it out , and lo ! the Canary at once became a beautiful girl with a golden skin who jumped lightly to the ground . 
Gracious ! what a pretty girl ! said Tubby . 
Father ! it is she ! it is Zizi ! exclaimed Desire , who entered at this moment . 
And he took her in his arms , crying My darling Zizi , how happy I am to see you once more ! Well , and the other one ? asked Tubby . 
The other one was stealing quietly to the door . 
Stop her ! called Tubby . 
We will judge her cause at once . 
And he seated himself solemnly on the oven , and condemned Titty to be burned alive . 
After which the lords and cooks formed themselves in lines , and Tubby betrothed Desire to Zizi . 
XVI The marriage took place a few days later . 
All the boys in the country side were there , armed with wooden swords , and decorated with epaulets made of gilt paper . 
Zizi obtained Titty's pardon , and she was sent back to the brick fields , followed and hooted at by all the boys . 
And this is why to day the country boys always throw stones at a titmouse . 
They are the descendants of Zizi . 
Charles Deulin , Contes du Roi Gambrinus . 
THE TWELVE BROTHERS THERE were once upon a time a King and a Queen who lived happily together , and they had twelve children , all of whom were boys . 
Then he ordered twelve coffins to be made , and filled them with shavings , and placed a little pillow in each . 
These he put away in an empty room , and , giving the key to his wife , he bade her tell no one of it . 
But he left her no peace , till she went and unlocked the room and showed him the twelve coffins filled with shavings , and with the little pillow laid in each . 
She wept bitterly as she spoke , but her son comforted her and said Don't cry , dear mother we'll manage to escape somehow , and will fly for our lives . 
Then she blessed her sons and they set out into the wood . 
They found a very high oak tree , and there they sat , turn about , keeping their eyes always fixed on the castle tower . 
So they went forth into the wood , and shot hares and roe deer , birds and wood pigeons , and any other game they came across . 
They always brought their spoils home to Benjamin , who soon learnt to make them into dainty dishes . 
So they lived for ten years in this little house , and the time slipped merrily away . 
In the meantime their little sister at home was growing up quickly . 
She was kind hearted and of a fair countenance , and she had a gold star right in the middle of her forehead . 
But where are my twelve brothers ? said the girl . 
I have never even heard of them . 
Heaven alone knows in what part of the wide world they are wandering , replied her mother . 
Then she took the girl and opened the locked up room she showed her the twelve coffins filled with shavings , and with the little pillow laid in each . 
These coffins , she said , were intended for your brothers , but they stole secretly away before you were born . 
So she took the twelve shirts and went on straight into the middle of the big wood . 
She walked all day long , and came in the evening to the little enchanted house . 
I am a Princess , she answered , and am seeking for my twelve brothers . 
I mean to wander as far as the blue sky stretches over the earth till I find them . 
Then she showed him the twelve shirts which she had taken with her , and Benjamin saw that it must be his sister , and said I am Benjamin , your youngest brother . 
So they wept for joy , and kissed and hugged each other again and again . 
But , she replied , I will gladly die if by that means I can restore my twelve brothers to their own . 
No , he answered , there is no need for that only go and hide under that tub till our eleven brothers come in , and I'll soon make matters right with them . 
She did as she was bid , and soon the others came home from the chase and sat down to supper . 
Well , Benjamin , what's the news ? they asked . 
But he replied , I like that have you nothing to tell me ? No , they answered . 
Then he said Well , now , you've been out in the wood all the day and I've stayed quietly at home , and all the same I know more than you do . 
Then tell us , they cried . 
But he answered Only on condition that you promise faithfully that the first girl we meet shall not be killed . 
She shall be spared , they promised , only tell us the news . 
And Benjamin and his sister cooked their meals for them . 
Besides this , she kept the house in order , tidied all the rooms , and made herself so generally useful that her brothers were delighted , and they all lived happily together . 
One day the two at home prepared a fine feast , and when they were all assembled they sat down and ate and drank and made merry . 
Now there was a little garden round the enchanted house , in which grew twelve tall lilies . 
The girl , wishing to please her brothers , plucked the twelve flowers , meaning to present one to each of them as they sat at supper . 
But hardly had she plucked the flowers when her brothers were turned into twelve ravens , who flew croaking over the wood , and the house and garden vanished also . 
Now they are changed for ever into ravens . 
Then the girl said to herself If that is all I am quite sure I can free my brothers . 
So she searched for a high tree , and when she had found one she climbed up it and spun all day long , never laughing or speaking one word . 
She gave no answer , but nodded slightly with her head . 
Then he climbed up the tree himself , lifted her down , put her on his horse and bore her home to his palace . 
The marriage was celebrated with much pomp and ceremony , but the bride neither spoke nor laughed . 
But just as she had been bound to the stake , and the flames were licking her garments with their red tongues , the very last moment of the seven years had come . 
Then a sudden rushing sound was heard in the air , and twelve ravens were seen flying overhead . 
They swooped downwards , and as soon as they touched the ground they turned into her twelve brothers , and she knew that she had freed them . 
They quenched the flames and put out the fire , and , unbinding their dear sister from the stake . 
they kissed and hugged her again and again . 
And now that she was able to open her mouth and speak , she told the King why she had been dumb and not able to laugh . 
The King rejoiced greatly when he heard she was innocent , and they all lived happily ever afterwards . 
RAPUNZEL ONCE upon a time there lived a man and his wife who were very unhappy because they had no children . 
The desire grew day by day , and just because she knew she couldn't possibly get any , she pined away and became quite pale and wretched . 
The man , who loved her dearly , thought to himself , Come ! rather than let your wife die you shall fetch her some rampion , no matter the cost . 
So at dusk he climbed over the wall into the witch's garden , and , hastily gathering a handful of rampion leaves , he returned with them to his wife . 
She made them into a salad , which tasted so good that her longing for the forbidden food was greater than ever . 
If she were to know any peace of mind , there was nothing for it but that her husband should climb over the garden wall again , and fetch her some more . 
So at dusk over he got , but when he reached the other side he drew back in terror , for there , standing before him , was the old witch . 
How dare you , she said , with a wrathful glance , climb into my garden and steal my rampion like a common thief ? You shall suffer for your foolhardiness . 
Oh ! he implored , pardon my presumption necessity alone drove me to the deed . 
My wife saw your rampion from her window , and conceived such a desire for it that she would certainly have died if her wish had not been gratified . 
All shall go well with it , and I will look after it like a mother . 
Rapunzel was the most beautiful child under the sun . 
After they had lived like this for a few years , it happened one day that a Prince was riding through the wood and passed by the tower . 
As he drew near it he heard someone singing so sweetly that he stood still spell bound , and listened . 
It was Rapunzel in her loneliness trying to while away the time by letting her sweet voice ring out into the wood . 
The Prince longed to see the owner of the voice , but he sought in vain for a door in the tower . 
He rode home , but he was so haunted by the song he had heard that he returned every day to the wood and listened . 
One day , when he was standing thus behind a tree , he saw the old Witch approach and heard her call out Rapunzel , Rapunzel , Let down your golden hair . 
Then Rapunzel let down her plaits , and the Witch climbed up by them . 
So that's the staircase , is it ? said the Prince . 
Then I too will climb it and try my luck . 
Very soon Rapunzel forgot her fear , and when he asked her to marry him she consented at once . 
For , she thought , he is young and handsome , and I'll certainly be happier with him than with the old Witch . 
They arranged that till the ladder was ready , he was to come to her every evening , because the old woman was with her during the day . 
Oh ! you wicked child , cried the Witch . 
What is this I hear ? I thought I had hidden you safely from the whole world , and in spite of it you have managed to deceive me . 
And , worse than this , she was so hard hearted that she took Rapunzel to a lonely desert place , and there left her to live in loneliness and misery . 
Rapunzel is lost to you for ever you will never see her more . 
Then he wandered , blind and miserable , through the wood , eating nothing but roots and berries , and weeping and lamenting the loss of his lovely bride . 
So he wandered about for some years , as wretched and unhappy as he could well be , and at last he came to the desert place where Rapunzel was living . 
Of a sudden he heard a voice which seemed strangely familiar to him . 
He walked eagerly in the direction of the sound , and when he was quite close , Rapunzel recognised him and fell on his neck and wept . 
But two of her tears touched his eyes , and in a moment they became quite clear again , and he saw as well as he had ever done . 
Then he led her to his kingdom , where they were received and welcomed with great joy , and they lived happily ever after . 
THE NETTLE SPINNER I ONCE upon a time there lived at Quesnoy , in Flanders , a great lord whose name was Burchard , but whom the country people called Burchard the Wolf . 
His wife , on the other hand , was always tender and pitiful to the poor and miserable . 
Every time that she heard of another misdeed of her husband's she secretly went to repair the evil , which caused her name to be blessed throughout the whole country side . 
This Countess was adored as much as the Count was hated . 
II One day when he was out hunting the Count passed through a forest , and at the door of a lonely cottage he saw a beautiful girl spinning hemp . 
What is your name ? he asked her . 
You must get tired of staying in such a lonely place ? I am accustomed to it , my lord , and I never get tired of it . 
That may be so but come to the castle , and I will make you lady's maid to the Countess . 
I cannot do that , my lord . 
I have to look after my grandmother , who is very helpless . 
Come to the castle , I tell you . 
I shall expect you this evening , and he went on his way . 
Three days later the Count again passed by . 
Why didn't you come ? he asked the pretty spinner . 
I told you , my lord , that I have to look after my grandmother . 
Come to morrow , and I will make you lady in waiting to the Countess , and he went on his way . 
This offer produced no more effect than the other , and Renelde did not go to the castle . 
If you will only come , said the Count to her when next he rode by , I will send away the Countess , and will marry you . 
But two years before , when Renelde's mother was dying of a long illness , the Countess had not forgotten them , but had given help when they sorely needed it . 
So even if the Count had really wished to marry Renelde , she would always have refused . 
III Some weeks passed before Burchard appeared again . 
Renelde hoped she had got rid of him , when one day he stopped at the door , his duck gun under his arm and his game bag on his shoulder . 
This time Renelde was spinning not hemp , but flax . 
What are you spinning ? he asked in a rough voice . 
My wedding shift , my lord . 
You are going to be married , then ? Yes , my lord , by your leave . 
For at that time no peasant could marry without the leave of his master . 
I will give you leave on one condition . 
Do you see those tall nettles that grow on the tombs in the churchyard ? Go and gather them , and spin them into two fine shifts . 
One shall be your bridal shift , and the other shall be my shroud . 
For you shall be married the day that I am laid in my grave . 
And the Count turned away with a mocking laugh . 
Never in all Locquignol had such a thing been heard of as the spinning of nettles . 
And besides , the Count seemed made of iron and was very proud of his strength , often boasting that he should live to be a hundred . 
Every evening , when his work was done , Guilbert came to visit his future bride . 
This evening he came as usual , and Renelde told him what Burchard had said . 
And then we must not hurt the Count . 
Remember how good the Countess was to my mother . 
An old , old woman now spoke she was the mother of Renelde's grandmother , and was more than ninety years old . 
All day long she sat in her chair nodding her head and never saying a word . 
My children , she said , all the years that I have lived in the world , I have never heard of a shift spun from nettles . 
But what God commands , man can do . 
Why should not Renelde try it ? IV Renelde did try , and to her great surprise the nettles when crushed and prepared gave a good thread , soft and light and firm . 
Very soon she had spun the first shift , which was for her own wedding . 
She wove and cut it out at once , hoping that the Count would not force her to begin the other . 
Just as she had finished sewing it , Burchard the Wolf passed by . 
The Count grew pale , but he replied roughly , Very good . 
The spinner set to work . 
As the Count returned to the castle , a cold shiver passed over him , and he felt , as the saying is , that some one was walking over his grave . 
He tried to eat his supper , but could not he went to bed shaking with fever . 
But he did not sleep , and in the morning could not manage to rise . 
This sudden illness , which every instant became worse , made him very uneasy . 
No doubt Renelde's spinning wheel knew all about it . 
Renelde obeyed , and that evening Guilbert asked her Has the Count given his consent to our marriage ? No , said Renelde . 
Continue your work , sweetheart . 
It is the only way of gaining it . 
You know he told you so himself . 
V The following morning , as soon as she had put the house in order , the girl sat down to spin . 
When they reached the bank they flung her in , and watched her sink , after which they left her . 
But Renelde rose to the surface , and though she could not swim she struggled to land . 
Directly she got home she sat down and began to spin . 
Again came the two soldiers to the cottage and seized the girl , carried her to the river bank , tied a stone to her neck and flung her into the water . 
The moment their backs were turned the stone untied itself . 
Renelde waded the ford , returned to the hut , and sat down to spin . 
This time the Count resolved to go to Locquignol himself but , as he was very weak and unable to walk , he had himself borne in a litter . 
And still the spinner spun . 
When he saw her he fired a shot at her , as he would have fired at a wild beast . 
The bullet rebounded without harming the spinner , who still spun on . 
Burchard fell into such a violent rage that it nearly killed him . 
He broke the wheel into a thousand pieces , and then fell fainting on the ground . 
He was carried back to the castle , unconscious . 
The next day the wheel was mended , and the spinner sat down to spin . 
Feeling that while she was spinning he was dying , the Count ordered that her hands should be tied , and that they should not lose sight of her for one instant . 
But the guards fell asleep , the bonds loosed themselves , and the spinner spun on . 
Burchard had every nettle rooted up for three leagues round . 
Scarcely had they been torn from the soil when they sowed themselves afresh , and grew as you were looking at them . 
And every day Burchard grew worse , and watched his end approaching . 
VI Moved by pity for her husband , the Countess at last found out the cause of his illness , and entreated him to allow himself to be cured . 
But the Count in his pride refused more than ever to give his consent to the marriage . 
So the lady resolved to go without his knowledge to pray for mercy from the spinner , and in the name of Renelde's dead mother she besought her to spin no more . 
Renelde gave her promise , but in the evening Guilbert arrived at the cottage . 
Seeing that the cloth was no farther advanced than it was the evening before , he inquired the reason . 
Renelde confessed that the Countess had prayed her not to let her husband die . 
Will he consent to our marriage ? No. Let him die then . 
But what will the Countess say ? The Countess will understand that it is not your fault the Count alone is guilty of his own death . 
Let us wait a little . 
Perhaps his heart may be softened . 
So they waited for one month , for two , for six , for a year . 
The spinner spun no more . 
The Count had ceased to persecute her , but he still refused his consent to the marriage . 
The poor girl loved him with her whole soul , and she was more unhappy than she had been before , when Burchard was only tormenting her body . 
Let us have done with it , said Guilbert . 
Wait a little still , pleaded Renelde . 
But the young man grew weary . 
He came more rarely to Locquignol , and very soon he did not come at all . 
Renelde felt as if her heart would break , but she held firm . 
One day she met the Count . 
She clasped her hands as if in prayer , and cried My lord , have mercy ! Burchard the Wolf turned away his head and passed on . 
She might have humbled his pride had she gone to her spinning wheel again , but she did nothing of the sort . 
Not long after she learnt that Guilbert had left the country . 
When she came in she put her silent wheel into a corner , and cried for three days and three nights . 
VII So another year went by . 
However , the Count grew worse and worse till he was given up by the doctors . 
The passing bell was rung , and he lay expecting Death to come for him . 
But Death was not so near as the doctors thought , and still he lingered . 
He seemed in a desperate condition , but he got neither better nor worse . 
He could neither live nor die he suffered horribly , and called loudly on Death to put an end to his pains . 
In this extremity he remembered what he had told the little spinner long ago . 
If Death was so slow in coming , it was because he was not ready to follow him , having no shroud for his burial . 
He sent to fetch Renelde , placed her by his bedside , and ordered her at once to go on spinning his shroud . 
Hardly had the spinner begun to work when the Count began to feel his pains grow less . 
Then at last his heart melted he was sorry for all the evil he had done out of pride , and implored Renelde to forgive him . 
So Renelde forgave him , and went on spinning night and day . 
When the thread of the nettles was spun she wove it with her shuttle , and then cut the shroud and began to sew it . 
VIII At the same hour Guilbert returned to the country , and , as he had never ceased to love Renelde , he married her eight days later . 
FARMER WEATHERBEARD THERE was once upon a time a man and a woman who had an only son , and he was called Jack . 
The woman thought that it was his duty to go out to service , and told her husband that he was to take him somewhere . 
Then she once more put some food and a roll of tobacco into the bag , and the man and his son had to set out again . 
When they had walked some distance they got upon the ice , and there they met a man in a carriage who was driving a black horse . 
Where are you going ? he said . 
Get up behind with you , he said to the boy , and off the horse went with them straight up into the air . 
No , no , wait a little ! screamed the father of the boy . 
I ought to know what your name is and where you live . 
Oh , I am at home both in the north and the south and the east and the west , and I am called Farmer Weatherbeard , said the master . 
You may come here again in a year's time , and then I will tell you if the lad suits me . 
And then they set off again and were gone . 
When the man got home the old woman inquired what had become of the son . 
Ah ! Heaven only knows what has become of him ! said the man . 
And then he told her what had happened . 
Good evening , mother , said the man . 
Good evening to you too , said the old woman . 
No one has called me mother this hundred years . 
Can I lodge here to night ? said the man . 
No , said the old woman . 
But the man took out his roll of tobacco , lighted a little of it , and then gave her a whiff . 
Then she was so delighted that she began to dance , and thus the man got leave to stay the night there . 
It was not long before he asked about Farmer Weatherbeard . 
She said that she knew nothing about him , but that she ruled over all the four footed beasts , and some of them might know him . 
So she gathered them all together by blowing a whistle which she had , and questioned them , but there was not one of them which knew anything about Farmer Weatherbeard . 
Well , said the old woman , there are three of us sisters it may be that one of the other two knows where he is to be found . 
The man set out and got there at night . 
When he arrived , this old woman also was standing drawing water out of the well with her nose . 
Good evening , mother , said the man . 
Good evening to you , said the old woman . 
No one has ever called me mother this hundred years . 
Can I lodge here to night ? said the man . 
No , said the old woman . 
Then he took out the roll of tobacco , took a whiff , and gave the old woman some snuff on the back of her hand . 
Then she was so delighted that she began to dance , and the man got leave to stay all night . 
It was not long before he began to ask about Farmer Weatherbeard . 
She knew nothing about him , but she ruled over all the fishes , she said , and perhaps some of them might know something . 
So she gathered them all together by blowing a whistle which she had , and questioned them , but there was not one of them which knew anything about Farmer Weatherbeard . 
Well , said the old woman , I have another sister perhaps she may know something about him . 
She lives six hundred miles off , but you shall have my horse and carriage , and then you will get there by nightfall . 
So the man set off and he got there by nightfall . 
The old woman was standing raking the fire , and she was doing it with her nose , so long it was . 
Good evening , mother , said the man . 
Good evening to you , said the old woman . 
No one has called me mother this hundred years . 
Can I lodge here to night ? said the man . 
No , said the old woman . 
Then she was so delighted that she began to dance , and the man got leave to stay in her house . 
It was not long before he asked about Farmer Weatherbeard . 
She knew nothing at all about him , she said , but she governed all the birds and she gathered them together with her whistle . 
When she questioned them all , the eagle was not there , but it came soon afterwards , and when asked , it said that it had just come from Farmer Weatherbeard's . 
Then the old woman said that it was to guide the man to him . 
When they got there the Eagle said There are a great many dead bodies lying outside the door , but you must not concern yourself about them . 
The man did this when he had got the bits of bread he first plucked out one feather . 
Oof ! screamed Farmer Weatherbeard . 
And now the Eagle told the man what he was to do next , and he did it . 
He knocked at the stable door and it opened at once . 
He threw down the three little bits of bread and a hare came out and ate them . 
When the Eagle had flown a long way it alighted on a stone . 
Do you see anything ? it asked . 
Yes I see a flock of crows coming flying after us , said the man . 
Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , said the Eagle , and off it set . 
In a short time it asked again , Do you see anything now ? Yes now the crows are close behind us , said the man . 
Then throw down the three feathers which you plucked out of his head , said the Eagle . 
So the man did this , and no sooner had he flung them down than the feathers became a flock of ravens , which chased the crows home again . 
Then the Eagle flew on much farther with the man , but at length it alighted on a stone for a while . 
Do you see anything ? it said . 
I am not quite certain , said the man , but I think I see something coming in the far distance . 
Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , said the Eagle , and away it went . 
Do you see anything now ? it said , after some time had gone by . 
Yes now they are close behind us , said the man . 
Then throw down the splinters of wood which you took from beneath the gray stone by the stable door , said the Eagle . 
So the Eagle flew on a long , long way , but then it grew tired and sat down on a fir tree . 
Do you see anything ? it asked . 
Yes I am not quite certain , said the man , but I think I can catch a glimpse of something far , far away . 
Then we shall do well to fly on a little farther , said the Eagle , and it set off again . 
Do you see anything now ? it said after some time had gone by . 
Yes he is close behind us now , said the man . 
Then you must fling down the great stone which you took away from the stable door , said the Eagle . 
The man did so , and it turned into a great high mountain of stone , which Farmer Weatherbeard had to break his way through before he could follow them . 
But when he had got to the middle of the mountain he broke one of his legs , so he had to go home to get it put right . 
When the time came for the fair the youth turned himself into a light coloured horse , and bade his father go to the market with him . 
That was no part of our bargain , said the man , and the halter you shall not have , for I have other horses which I shall have to sell . 
So each of them went his way . 
The next day he changed himself into a brown horse and told his father that he was to set off to market with him . 
On the third day all happened in the same way . 
No , said the man , I will not forget . 
I am here ! shrieked Farmer Weatherbeard , rushing out of doors . 
But the horse had already shaken off the halter and flung himself into a goose pond , where he changed himself into a little fish . 
Farmer Weatherbeard went after him , and changed himself into a great pike . 
So Jack turned himself into a dove , and Farmer Weatherbeard turned himself into a hawk , and flew after the dove and struck it . 
But a Princess was standing at a window in the King's palace watching the struggle . 
If thou didst but know as much as I know , thou wouldst fly in to me through the window , said the Princess to the dove . 
So the dove came flying in through the window and changed itself into Jack again , and told her all as it had happened . 
Change thyself into a gold ring , and set thyself on my finger , said the Princess . 
I will say that it was my mother's , and that I will not part with it , said the Princess . 
So Jack changed himself into a gold ring , and set himself on the Princess's finger , and Farmer Weatherbeard could not get at him there . 
But then all that the youth had foretold came to pass . 
The King became ill , and there was no doctor who could cure him till Farmer Weatherbeard arrived , and he demanded the ring which was on the Princess's finger as a reward . 
So the King sent a messenger to the Princess for the ring . 
She , however , refused to part with it , because she had inherited it from her mother . 
When the King was informed of this he fell into a rage , and said that he would have the ring , let her have inherited it from whom she might . 
Well , it's of no use to be angry about it , said the Princess , for I can't get it off . 
If you want the ring you will have to take the finger too ! I will try , and then the ring will very soon come off , said Farmer Weatherbeard . 
No , thank you , I will try myself , said the Princess , and she went away to the fireplace and put some ashes on the ring . 
So the ring came off and was lost among the ashes . 
Farmer Weatherbeard changed himself into a hare , which scratched and scraped about in the fireplace after the ring until the ashes were up to its ears . 
But Jack changed himself into a fox , and bit the hare's head off , and if Farmer Weatherbeard was possessed by the evil one all was now over with him . 
MOTHER HOLLE ONCE upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters one of them was pretty and clever , and the other ugly and lazy . 
Every day she had to sit by a well on the high road , and spin till her fingers were so sore that they often bled . 
I am quite done enough . 
So she stepped up quickly to the oven and took out all the loaves one after the other . 
She did as she was asked , and shook the tree till the apples fell like rain and none were left hanging . 
She spoke so kindly that the girl took heart and agreed readily to enter her service . 
But after she had been some time with Mother Holle she grew sad and depressed , and at first she hardly knew herself what was the matter . 
I can remain with you no longer , but must return to my own people . 
Your desire to go home pleases me , said Mother Holle , and because you have served me so faithfully , I will show you the way back into the world myself . 
That's a reward for being such a good little maid , said Mother Holle , and she gave her the spindle too that had fallen into the well . 
Then she went in to her stepmother , and as she had returned covered with gold she was welcomed home . 
In order to make her spindle bloody , she stuck her hand into a hedge of thorns and pricked her finger . 
Then she threw the spindle into the well , and jumped in herself after it . 
Like her sister she came to the beautiful meadow , and followed the same path . 
When she reached the baker's oven the bread called out as before Oh ! take me out , take me out , or I shall be burnt to a cinder . 
I am quite done enough . 
But the good for nothing girl answered A pretty joke , indeed just as if I should dirty my hands for you ! And on she went . 
Soon she came to the apple tree , which cried Oh ! shake me , shake me , my apples are all quite ripe . 
I'll see myself farther , she replied , one of them might fall on my head . 
And so she pursued her way . 
When she came to Mother Holle's house she wasn't the least afraid , for she had been warned about her big teeth , and she readily agreed to become her maid . 
She didn't make Mother Holle's bed as she ought to have done , and never shook it enough to make the feathers fly . 
So her mistress soon grew weary of her , and dismissed her , much to the lazy creature's delight . 
For now , she thought , the shower of golden rain will come . 
That's a reward for your service , said Mother Holle , and she closed the door behind her . 
But the pitch remained sticking to her , and never as long as she lived could it be got off . 
But if they had next to nothing of all else they had the blessing of God so far as children were concerned , and every year brought them one more . 
The man was not overpleased at this . 
As soon as this baby was born it began to look about the room . 
Heaven help thee , my son ! said the mother , that will never do thou art still far too little . 
Heaven help thee , little creature ! thou art far too little for that , said the woman it would never do . 
When the younger had walked for some time he caught sight of his brother a short distance in front of him , and called to him and bade him to stop . 
Wait a minute , he said you are walking as if for a wager , but you ought to have stayed to see your younger brother before you hurried off into the world . 
When they had walked on a little farther they came to a brook which ran through a green meadow , and there the younger said that they ought to christen each other . 
As we had to make such haste , and had no time to do it at home , we may as well do it here , said he . 
What will you be called ? asked the elder . 
I will be called Minnikin , answered the second and you , what will you be called ? I will be called King Pippin , answered the elder . 
They christened each other and then went onwards . 
When they had walked for some time they came to a crossway , and there they agreed to part , and each take his own road . 
This they did , but no sooner had they walked a short distance than they met again . 
Then they arranged with each other that each should choose his own quarter , and one should go east and the other west . 
In that case we shall not see each other for some time , said Minnikin so they bade farewell to each other , and Minnikin went east and King Pippin went west . 
When Minnikin had walked a long way alone , he met an old , old crook backed hag , who had only one eye . 
Oh ! oh ! cried the old hag , what has become of my eye ? What will you give me to get your eye back ? said Minnikin . 
I will give thee a sword which is such a sword that it can conquer a whole army , let it be ever so great , replied the woman . 
Let me have it , then , said Minnikin . 
The old hag gave him the sword , so she got her eye back . 
Then Minnikin went onwards , and when he had wandered on for some time he again met an old , old crook backed hag , who had only one eye . 
Minnikin stole it before she was aware . 
Oh ! oh ! what has become of my eye ? cried the old hag . 
What will you give me to get your eye back ? said Minnikin . 
I will give thee a ship which can sail over fresh water and salt water , over high hills and deep dales , answered the old woman . 
Let me have it then , said Minnikin . 
When he had walked on for a long time , he met for the third time an old , old crook backed hag , who had only one eye . 
So , for teaching that art , the old hag got her eye back , and they both went away by different roads . 
Then Minnikin said Now go over fresh water and salt water , over high hills and deep dales , and do not stop until thou comest to the King's palace . 
And in an instant the ship went away as swiftly as any bird in the air till it got just below the King's palace , and there it stood still . 
If there was nothing else for him to do , he said he would fetch wood and water for the kitchen maid , and that he obtained leave to do . 
Oh , I will tell you that , answered the kitchen maid . 
The King's daughter was long ago promised away to three Trolls , and next Thursday evening one of them is to come to fetch her . 
The Princess wept , and begged him most earnestly not to go and leave her but Ritter Red did not concern himself about that . 
It is better that one should die than two , said he . 
In the meantime Minnikin begged the kitchen maid very prettily to give him leave to go down to the strand for a short time . 
Oh , what could you do down at the strand ? said the kitchen maid . 
You have nothing to do there . 
Oh yes , my dear , just let me go , said Minnikin . 
I should so like to go and amuse myself with the other children . 
Minnikin promised this , and ran down to the sea shore . 
Fire ! screeched the Troll . 
Fire yourself ! said Minnikin . 
Can you fight ? roared the Troll . 
If not , I can learn , said Minnikin . 
So the Troll struck at him with a great thick iron bar which he had in his fist , till the sods flew five yards up into the air . 
That was not much of a blow . 
Now you shall see one of mine . 
So he grasped the sword which he had got from the old crook backed woman , and slashed at the Troll so that all five heads went flying away over the sands . 
When the Princess saw that she was delivered she was so delighted that she did not know what she was doing , and skipped and danced . 
Come and sleep a bit with your head in my lap , she said to Minnikin , and as he slept she put a golden dress on him . 
But when Ritter Red saw that there was no longer any danger afoot , he lost no time in creeping down from the tree . 
Oh , answered Minnikin , I have been home a while , and these hoops had fallen off some of our buckets , so I brought them away with me for you . 
So when the kitchen maid heard that they were for her , she asked no more questions about the matter . 
She thanked Minnikin , and everything was right again at once . 
Minnikin once more begged the cook's leave to go down to the sea shore for a short time . 
Oh , what can you do there ? said the cook . 
My dear , do let me go ! said Minnikin I should so like to go down there and amuse myself a little with the other children . 
Fire ! shrieked the Troll . 
Fire yourself ! said Minnikin . 
Can you fight ? roared the Troll . 
If not , I can learn , said Minnikin . 
So the Troll struck at him with his iron club which was still bigger than that which the first Troll had had so that the earth flew ten yards up in the air . 
That was not much of a blow . 
Now you shall see one of my blows . 
Then he grasped his sword and struck at the Troll , so that all his ten heads danced away over the sands . 
And again the King's daughter said to him , Sleep a while on my lap , and while Minnikin lay there she drew some silver raiment over him . 
There was joy and gladness in the palace , as may be imagined , and the King did not know how to show enough honour and respect to Ritter Red . 
Minnikin , however , took home with him an armful of gold and silver hoops from the Troll's ship . 
When the third Thursday evening came , everything happened exactly as it had happened on the two former occasions . 
He led her down to the strand , but when the time drew near for the Troll to come , he climbed up into the tree again and hid himself . 
The Princess wept and entreated him to stay , but all to no purpose . 
He stuck to his old speech , It is better that one life should be lost than two . 
This evening also , Minnikin begged for leave to go down to the sea shore . 
Oh , what can you do there ? answered the kitchen maid . 
Fire ! roared the Troll . 
Fire yourself ! said Minnikin . 
Can you fight ? screamed the Troll . 
If not , I can learn , said Minnikin . 
I will teach you , yelled the Troll , and struck at him with his iron club so that the earth flew up fifteen yards high into the air . 
That was not much of a blow . 
Now I will let you see one of my blows . 
So saying he grasped his sword , and cut at the Troll in such a way that all his fifteen heads danced away over the sands . 
Then the Princess was delivered , and she thanked Minnikin and blessed him for saving her . 
Sleep a while now on my lap , said she , and while he lay there she put a garment of brass upon him . 
But now , how shall we have it made known that it was you who saved me ? said the King's daughter . 
That I will tell you , answered Minnikin . 
But the third time you must say , Shame on you thus to smite the beloved of mine heart . 
It is he who delivered me from the Troll , and he is the one whom I will have . 
He spilt a drop on Ritter Red's plate but none upon hers , and each time that he did it Ritter Red fell into a rage and struck him . 
Then the King's daughter said Shame on you thus to smite the beloved of my heart . 
It is he who delivered me from the Troll , and he is the one whom I will have . 
Ritter Red swore that he was the man who had saved her , but the King said He who delivered my daughter must have some token in proof of it . 
So Ritter Red was thrown into the snake pit , and Minnikin was to have the Princess , and half the kingdom . 
One day the King went out walking with Minnikin , and Minnikin asked him if he had never had any other children . 
Yes , said the King , I had another daughter , but the Troll carried her away because there was no one who could deliver her . 
So the King said he should have these things , but the King was afraid that he had no ship large enough to carry them all . 
But I have a ship of my own , said Minnikin , and he took the one which the old woman had given him out of his pocket . 
When they had sailed thus a long , long way , the ship stopped short in the middle of the sea . 
Ah , now we have got there , said Minnikin , but how we are to get back again is a very different thing . 
Then he took the cable and tied one end of it round his body . 
So saying he sprang into the water , and yellow bubbles rose up all around him . 
He sank lower and lower , and at last he came to the bottom . 
There he saw a large hill with a door in it , and in he went . 
When he had got inside he found the other Princess sitting sewing , but when she saw Minnikin she clapped her hands . 
Ah , heaven be praised ! she cried , I have not seen a Christian man since I came here . 
I have come for you , said Minnikin . 
Alas ! you will not be able to get me , said the King's daughter . 
It is no use even to think of that if the Troll catches sight of you he will take your life . 
You had better tell me about him , said Minnikin . 
Where is he gone ? It would be amusing to see him . 
I can do that , said Minnikin . 
But I will try to find some way of doing it . 
Can you hide yourself here in the cupboard ? and then we will see what happens . 
Minnikin did this , and almost before he had crept into the cupboard and hidden himself , came the Troll . 
Huf ! What a smell of Christian man's blood ! said the Troll . 
Yes , a bird flew over the roof with a Christian man's bone in his bill , and let it fall down our chimney , answered the Princess . 
I made haste enough to get it away again , but it must be that which smells so , notwithstanding . 
Yes , it must be that , said the Troll . 
Then the Princess asked if he had got hold of anyone who could brew a hundred lasts of malt at one brewing . 
No , there is no one who can do it , said the Troll . 
A short time since there was a man here who said he could do it , said the King's daughter . 
How clever you always are ! said the Troll . 
How could you let him go away ? You must have known that I was just wanting a man of that kind . 
Let him come in , said the Troll . 
When Minnikin came , the Troll asked if it were true that he could brew a hundred lasts of malt at one brewing . 
Yes , said Minnikin , it is . 
It is well then that I have lighted on thee , said the Troll . 
Fall to work this very minute , but Heaven help thee if thou dost not brew the ale strong . 
Oh , it shall taste well , said Minnikin , and at once set himself to work to brew . 
But I must have more trolls to help to carry what is wanted , said Minnikin these that I have are good for nothing . 
So he got more and so many that there was a swarm of them , and then the brewing went on . 
At last there was no one left but one wretched old hag who was lying behind the stove . 
Oh , poor old creature ! said Minnikin , you shall have a taste of the wort too like the rest . 
While Minnikin was now standing there looking about him , he cast his eye on a large chest . 
And in a moment the ship went off so fast that the yellow foam rose up all round about it . 
For this cause he was continually walking backwards and forwards , thinking how he could contrive to get her , and yet do nothing that was unkind to her sister . 
As soon as this thought occurred to him he went outside the palace and called for King Pippin , but no one came . 
So he called a second time , and a little louder , but no ! still no one came . 
So Minnikin called for the third time , and with all his might , and there stood his brother by his side . 
Shame on you to strike me ! said Minnikin . 
For he knew that the elder Princess was the stronger , so he could very well guess how things would go . 
King Pippin at once agreed to this . 
He changed clothes with his brother , and went into the palace . 
It will be easy to understand that two weddings took place , and they were so magnificent that they were heard of and talked about all over seven kingdoms . 
BUSHY BRIDE THERE was once on a time a widower who had a son and a daughter by his first wife . 
They were both good children , and loved each other with all their hearts . 
After some time had gone by the man married again , and he chose a widow with one daughter who was ugly and wicked , and her mother was ugly and wicked too . 
But his sister , who was still at home , fared worse and worse . 
They made her do all the hard work , and hard words fell to her lot early and late , but little enough food accompanied them . 
When she had done it , and done it well , another head rose up out of the water , and this one was uglier still . 
Brush me , girl ! said the head . 
When she had got it done , another and a much more ugly and horrible looking head rose up out of the water . 
Kiss me , girl ! said the head . 
So the heads all began to talk to each other , and to ask what they should do for this girl who was so full of kindliness . 
She shall be the prettiest girl that ever was , and fair and bright as the day , said the first head . 
Gold shall drop from her hair whenever she brushes it , said the second . 
Gold shall drop from her mouth whenever she speaks , said the third head . 
It was not long before the mother wanted her own daughter to go to the stream to fetch some water . 
When she got there with her pails , the first head rose up out of the water close to the bank . 
Wash me , girl ! it said . 
Wash yourself ! answered the woman's daughter . 
Then the second head appeared . 
Brush me , girl ! said the head . 
Brush yourself ! said the woman's daughter . 
So down it went to the bottom , and the third head came up . 
Kiss me , girl ! said the head . 
As if I would kiss your ugly mouth ! said the girl . 
I can't get near , because of my nose , said the daughter . 
Open the door ! cried the King , but the youth did not hear . 
So the King called to him again , but the youth was praying so fervently that he did not hear him this time either . 
Open the door , I say ! cried the King again . 
It is I ! I want to come in . 
So the youth sprang to the door and unlocked it , but in his haste he forgot to hide the picture . 
There is nowhere on earth so beautiful a woman as this ! said the King . 
The youth promised to make all the haste he could , and set forth from the King's palace . 
When the brother arrived at home to fetch his sister , her stepmother and step sister would go too . 
So they all set out together , and the man's daughter took with her a casket in which she kept her gold , and a dog which was called Little Snow . 
These two things were all that she had inherited from her mother . 
At last they came in sight of land . 
Look at that white strand there that is where we shall land , said the brother , pointing across the sea . 
What is my brother saying ? inquired the man's daughter . 
He says that you are to throw your casket out into the sea , answered the step mother . 
Well , if my brother says so , I must do it , said the man's daughter , and she flung her casket into the sea . 
When they had sailed for some time longer , the brother once more pointed over the sea . 
There you may see the palace to which we are bound , said he . 
What is my brother saying ? asked the man's daughter . 
Now he says that you are to throw your dog into the sea , answered the step mother . 
The man's daughter wept , and was sorely troubled , for Little Snow was the dearest thing she had on earth , but at last she threw him overboard . 
If my brother says that , I must do it , but Heaven knows how unwilling I am to throw thee out , Little Snow ! said she . 
So they sailed onwards a long way farther . 
There may'st thou see the King coming out to meet thee , said the brother , pointing to the sea shore . 
What is my brother saying ? asked his sister again . 
Now he says that you are to make haste and throw yourself overboard , answered the step mother . 
She wept and she wailed , but as her brother had said that , she thought she must do it so she leaped into the sea . 
But he was very wroth , and none can blame him for that so he caused the brother to be thrown into a pit full of snakes . 
She begged very prettily , and got it , and then she brushed her hair , and the gold dropped from it . 
I shall come twice more , and then never again , said she . 
On the third Thursday night the King once more insisted on keeping watch . 
But as the night wore on the Bushy Bride again began to croon and to sing , so that his eyes began to close and his head to droop on one side . 
Now I shall never come again , she said , and then she turned to go . 
Thus the true bride was freed . 
The King then awoke , and she told him all that had taken place , and how her step mother and step sister had betrayed her . 
Then the brother was at once taken out of the snake pit the snakes had never touched him and the step mother and step sister were flung down into it instead of him . 
No one can tell how delighted the King was to get rid of that hideous Bushy Bride , and get a Queen who was bright and beautiful as day itself . 
And now the real wedding was held , and held in such a way that it was heard of and spoken about all over seven kingdoms . 
The King and his bride drove to church , and Little Snow was in the carriage too . 
When the blessing was given they went home again , and after that I saw no more of them . 
They called her Snowdrop , and not long after her birth the Queen died . 
After a year the King married again . 
His new wife was a beautiful woman , but so proud and overbearing that she couldn't stand any rival to her beauty . 
Then she was quite happy , for she knew the mirror always spoke the truth . 
But Snowdrop was growing prettier and prettier every day , and when she was seven years old she was as beautiful as she could be , and fairer even than the Queen herself . 
One day when the latter asked her mirror the usual question , it replied My Lady Queen , you are fair , 'tis true , But Snowdrop is fairer far than you . 
Then the Queen flew into the most awful passion , and turned every shade of green in her jealousy . 
You must kill her , and bring me back her lungs and liver , that I may know for certain she is dead . 
And because she was so young and pretty the Huntsman had pity on her , and said Well , run along , poor child . 
For he thought to himself The wild beasts will soon eat her up . 
And his heart felt lighter because he hadn't had to do the deed himself . 
And the wicked woman had them stewed in salt , and ate them up , thinking she had made an end of Snowdrop for ever . 
Then she began to run over the sharp stones , and through the bramble bushes , and the wild beasts ran past her , but they did her no harm . 
She ran as far as her legs would carry her , and as evening approached she saw a little house , and she stepped inside to rest . 
Everything was very small in the little house , but cleaner and neater than anything you can imagine . 
In the middle of the room there stood a little table , covered with a white tablecloth , and seven little plates and forks and spoons and knives and tumblers . 
Side by side against the wall there were seven little beds , covered with snow white counterpanes . 
Snowdrop felt so hungry and so thirsty that she ate a bit of bread and a little porridge from each plate , and drank a drop of wine out of each tumbler . 
So she lay down upon it , said her prayers like a good child , and fell fast asleep . 
When it got quite dark the masters of the little house returned . 
They were seven dwarfs who worked in the mines , right down deep in the heart of the mountain . 
But when the seventh came to his bed , he started back in amazement , for there he beheld Snowdrop fast asleep . 
Then he called the others , who turned their little lamps full on the bed , and when they saw Snowdrop lying there they nearly fell down with surprise . 
But the seventh Dwarf slept with his companions one hour in each bed , and in this way he managed to pass the night . 
In the morning Snowdrop awoke , but when she saw the seven little Dwarfs she felt very frightened . 
But they were so friendly and asked her what her name was in such a kind way , that she replied I am Snowdrop . 
Why did you come to our house ? continued the Dwarfs . 
Yes , answered Snowdrop , I will gladly do all you ask . 
And so she took up her abode with them . 
Every morning the Dwarfs went into the mountain to dig for gold , and in the evening , when they returned home , Snowdrop always had their supper ready for them . 
But during the day the girl was left quite alone , so the good Dwarfs warned her , saying Beware of your step mother . 
She will soon find out you are here , and whatever you do don't let anyone into the house . 
Snowdrop , who dwells with the seven little men , Is as fair as you , as fair again . 
She pondered day and night how she might destroy her , for as long as she felt she had a rival in the land her jealous heart left her no rest . 
At last she hit upon a plan . 
She stained her face and dressed herself up as an old peddler wife , so that she was quite unrecognisable . 
In this guise she went over the seven hills till she came to the house of the seven Dwarfs . 
Surely I can let the honest woman in , thought Snowdrop so she unbarred the door and bought the pretty lace . 
Good gracious ! child , said the old woman , what a figure you've got . 
Come ! I'll lace you up properly for once . 
Now you are no longer the fairest , said the wicked old woman , and then she hastened away . 
When the Dwarfs heard what had happened , they said Depend upon it , the old peddler wife was none other than the old Queen . 
In future you must be sure to let no one in , if we are not at home . 
Snowdrop , who dwells with the seven little men , Is as fair as you , as fair again . 
When she heard this she became as pale as death , because she saw at once that Snowdrop must be alive again . 
This time , she said to herself , I will think of something that will make an end of her once and for all . 
And by the witchcraft which she understood so well she made a poisonous comb then she dressed herself up and assumed the form of another old woman . 
So she went over the seven hills till she reached the house of the seven Dwarfs , and knocking at the door she called out Fine wares for sale . 
Snowdrop looked out of the window and said You must go away , for I may not let anyone in . 
But surely you are not forbidden to look out ? said the old woman , and she held up the poisonous comb for her to see . 
It pleased the girl so much that she let herself be taken in , and opened the door . 
When they had settled their bargain the old woman said Now I'll comb your hair properly for you , for once in the way . 
Poor Snowdrop thought no evil , but hardly had the comb touched her hair than the poison worked and she fell down unconscious . 
Now , my fine lady , you're really done for this time , said the wicked woman , and she made her way home as fast as she could . 
Fortunately it was now near evening , and the seven Dwarfs returned home . 
Then they warned her once more to be on her guard , and to open the door to no one . 
Snowdrop , who dwells with the seven little men , Is as fair as you , as fair again . 
When she heard these words she literally trembled and shook with rage . 
Snowdrop shall die , she cried yes , though it cost me my own life . 
Then she went to a little secret chamber , which no one knew of but herself , and there she made a poisonous apple . 
Outwardly it looked beautiful , white with red cheeks , so that everyone who saw it longed to eat it , but anyone who might do so would certainly die on the spot . 
When the apple was quite finished she stained her face and dressed herself up as a peasant , and so she went over the seven hills to the seven Dwarfs' . 
Are you afraid of being poisoned ? asked the old woman . 
See , I will cut this apple in half . 
I'll eat the white cheek and you can eat the red . 
But the apple was so cunningly made that only the red cheek was poisonous . 
But hardly had the first bite passed her lips than she fell down dead on the ground . 
Then her jealous heart was at rest at least , as much at rest as a jealous heart can ever be . 
When the little Dwarfs came home in the evening they found Snowdrop lying on the ground , and she neither breathed nor stirred . 
They lifted her up , and looked round everywhere to see if they could find anything poisonous about . 
They unlaced her bodice , combed her hair , washed her with water and wine , but all in vain the child was dead and remained dead . 
Then they placed her on a bier , and all the seven Dwarfs sat round it , weeping and sobbing for three whole days . 
So they had a coffin made of transparent glass , and they laid her in it , and wrote on the lid in golden letters that she was a royal Princess . 
Then they put the coffin on the top of the mountain , and one of the Dwarfs always remained beside it and kept watch over it . 
And the very birds of the air came and bewailed Snowdrop's death , first an owl , and then a raven , and last of all a little dove . 
Now it happened one day that a Prince came to the wood and passed by the Dwarfs' house . 
I'll give you whatever you like for it . 
But the Dwarf said No we wouldn't part with it for all the gold in the world . 
Well , then , he replied , give it to me , because I can't live without Snowdrop . 
I will cherish and love it as my dearest possession . 
He spoke so sadly that the good Dwarfs had pity on him , and gave him the coffin , and the Prince made his servants bear it away on their shoulders . 
She gradually opened her eyes , lifted up the lid of the coffin , and sat up alive and well . 
Oh ! dear me , where am I ? she cried . 
The Prince answered joyfully , You are with me , and he told her all that had happened . 
adding , I love you better than anyone in the whole wide world . 
Will you come with me to my father's palace and be my wife ? Snowdrop consented , and went with him , and the marriage was celebrated with great pomp and splendour . 
Now Snowdrop's wicked step mother was one of the guests invited to the wedding feast . 
When the wicked woman heard these words she uttered a curse , and was beside herself with rage and mortification . 
At first she didn't want to go to the wedding at all , but at the same time she felt she would never be happy till she had seen the young Queen . 
THE GOLDEN GOOSE THERE was once a man who had three sons . 
The youngest of them was called Dullhead , and was sneered and jeered at and snubbed on every possible opportunity . 
Then the second son went to the forest , and his mother gave him a good cake and a bottle of wine as she had to his elder brother . 
He too met the little old grey man , who begged him for a morsel of cake and a draught of wine . 
But the second son spoke most sensibly too , and said Whatever I give to you I deprive myself of . 
So then Dullhead said Father , let me go out and cut wood . 
But his father answered Both your brothers have injured themselves . 
You had better leave it alone you know nothing about it . 
But Dullhead begged so hard to be allowed to go that at last his father said Very well , then go . 
Perhaps when you have hurt yourself , you may learn to know better . 
His mother only gave him a very plain cake made with water and baked in the cinders , and a bottle of sour beer . 
And Dullhead replied I've only got a cinder cake and some sour beer , but if you care to have that , let us sit down and eat . 
So they sat down , and when Dullhead brought out his cake he found it had turned into a fine rich cake , and the sour beer into excellent wine . 
There stands an old tree cut it down , and amongst its roots you'll find something . 
With that the little man took leave . 
Then Dullhead fell to at once to hew down the tree , and when it fell he found amongst its roots a goose , whose feathers were all of pure gold . 
He lifted it out , carried it off , and took it with him to an inn where he meant to spend the night . 
But , lo and behold ! her fingers seemed to stick fast to the goose , and she could not take her hand away . 
Soon after the second daughter came in , and thought to pluck a golden feather for herself too but hardly had she touched her sister than she stuck fast as well . 
So they all three had to spend the night with the goose . 
Next morning Dullhead tucked the goose under his arm and went off , without in the least troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to it . 
They just had to run after him right or left as best they could . 
But directly he touched her he hung on himself , and had to run along with the rest of them . 
Not long after the clerk came that way , and was much surprised to see the parson following the footsteps of three girls . 
On seeing them the parson called out and begged them to come and rescue him and the clerk . 
But no sooner did they touch the clerk than they stuck on too , and so there were seven of them running after Dullhead and his goose . 
After a time they all came to a town where a King reigned whose daughter was so serious and solemn that no one could ever manage to make her laugh . 
So the King had decreed that whoever should succeed in making her laugh should marry her . 
Dullhead asked him what he was taking so much to heart , and the man answered I don't know how I am ever to quench this terrible thirst I am suffering from . 
Cold water doesn't suit me at all . 
To be sure I've emptied a whole barrel of wine , but what is one drop on a hot stone ? I think I can help you , said Dullhead . 
Come with me , and you shall drink to your heart's content . 
He required Dullhead to find a man who could eat a mountain of bread . 
Dullhead was delighted , and said Get up and come with me , and you shall have plenty to eat , and he brought him to the King's Court . 
Now the King had given orders to have all the flour in his kingdom brought together , and to have a huge mountain baked of it . 
But the man from the wood just took up his stand before the mountain and began to eat , and in one day it had all vanished . 
I have done all this for you because you were kind and merciful to me . 
Then he gave Dullhead a ship which could sail on land or water , and when the King saw it he felt he could no longer refuse him his daughter . 
So they celebrated the wedding with great rejoicings and after the King's death Dullhead succeeded to the kingdom , and lived happily with his wife for many years after . 
THE SEVEN FOALS THERE was once upon a time a couple of poor folks who lived in a wretched hut , far away from everyone else , in a wood . 
One day the eldest lad said that he would go out to earn his living he soon got leave to do that , and set out on his way into the world . 
He walked on and on for the whole day , and when night was beginning to fall he came to a royal palace . 
The King was standing outside on the steps , and asked where he was going . 
Oh , I am going about seeking a place , my father , said the youth . 
Wilt thou serve me , and watch my seven foals ? asked the King . 
The youth thought that it was very easy work to watch the foals , and that he could do it well enough . 
When evening was drawing near , the youth wanted to go . 
I may just as well go straight home again , said he , for it is no use to go to the King's palace . 
Hast thou watched faithfully and well the whole day long ? said the King , when the lad came into his presence in the evening . 
Yes , that I have ! said the youth . 
Then you are able to tell me what it is that my seven foals eat and drink , said the King . 
When the youth reached home again , anyone can imagine what a state of mind he was in . 
He had gone out once to seek a place , he said , but never would he do such a thing again . 
Next day the second son said that he would now go out into the world to seek his fortune . 
Then the King promised him the same punishment and the same reward that he had promised his brother . 
The youth at once consented to this and entered into the King's service , for he thought he could easily watch the foals and inform the King what they ate and drank . 
But all went with him as it had gone with his brother . 
The youth liked the thought of this , let the foals run where they chose , and seated himself in the cleft of the rock by the side of the old hag . 
So there he sat with his head on her lap , taking his ease the livelong day . 
On the third day Cinderlad wanted to set out . 
He had a fancy to try to watch the seven foals himself , he said . 
The two others laughed at him , and mocked him . 
Yes , I will go too , said Cinderlad , for I have taken it into my head . 
The two brothers laughed at him , and his father and mother begged him not to go , but all to no purpose , and Cinderlad set out on his way . 
So when he had walked the whole day , he too came to the King's palace as darkness began to fall . 
There stood the King outside on the steps , and he asked whither he was bound . 
I am walking about in search of a place , said Cinderlad . 
Oh , shame on them ! said the King , for it enraged him even to think of them . 
If thou art brother to those two , thou too art not good for much . 
I have had enough of such fellows . 
Well , but as I have come here , you might just give me leave to make the attempt , said Cinderlad . 
Oh , very well , if thou art absolutely determined to have thy back flayed , thou may'st have thine own way if thou wilt , said the King . 
I would much rather have the Princess , said Cinderlad . 
When he had run thus for a long time , he too came to the cleft in the rock . 
Come to me , then come to me ! said Cinderlad , as he passed by jumping and running , and keeping tight hold of one of the foals' tails . 
When he had got safely past the cleft in the rock , the youngest foal said Get on my back , for we have still a long way to go . 
So the lad did this . 
And thus they journeyed onwards a long , long way . 
Dost thou see anything now ? said the Foal . 
So they journeyed onwards a good bit farther . 
Dost thou see anything now ? asked the Foal . 
Oh , no , said the lad . 
It looks like the trunk of a great thick birch tree . 
Yes , that is where we are to go in , said the Foal . 
Canst thou wield that sword ? asked the Foal . 
So they went on a great distance farther . 
And now ? inquired the Foal , seest thou nothing now ? Alas ! no , said Cinderlad . 
So they travelled onwards again , for many and many a mile , over hill and dale . 
Now , then , said the Foal , dost thou not see anything now ? Yes , said Cinderlad now I see something like a bluish streak , far , far away . 
That is a river , said the Foal , and we have to cross it . 
Yes , this time he saw something that looked black , far , far away , and was rather like a church tower . 
Yes , said the Foal , we shall go into that . 
It was all but dark when they got back to the King at nightfall , and he himself was standing in the courtyard waiting for them . 
Hast thou watched well and faithfully the whole day ? said the King to Cinderlad . 
I have done my best , replied Cinderlad . 
Then thou canst tell me what my seven foals eat and drink ? asked the King . 
So Cinderlad pulled out the consecrated bread and the flask of wine , and showed them to the King . 
Here may you behold their meat , and here their drink , said he . 
Yes , diligently and faithfully hast thou watched , said the King , and thou shalt have the Princess and half the kingdom . 
When he got there , he did what the foals had bidden him , and cut off the heads of all the seven . 
Therefore , as all may well believe , there was joy and merriment at that wedding . 
THE MARVELLOUS MUSICIAN THERE was once upon a time a marvellous musician . 
One day he was wandering through a wood all by himself , thinking now of one thing , now of another , till there was nothing else left to think about . 
Then he said to himself Time hangs very heavily on my hands when I'm all alone in the wood . 
I must try and find a pleasant companion . 
So he took his fiddle out , and fiddled till he woke the echoes round . 
After a time a wolf came through the thicket and trotted up to the musician . 
Oh ! it's a Wolf , is it ? said he . 
I've not the smallest wish for his society . 
But the Wolf approached him and said Oh , my dear musician , how beautifully you play ! I wish you'd teach me how it's done . 
That's easily learned , answered the fiddler you must only do exactly as I tell you . 
Of course I will , replied the Wolf . 
I can promise that you will find me a most apt pupil . 
Now , said the Musician , if you want to learn to fiddle , here's your chance . 
Lay your front paws in this crack . 
Wait there till I return , said the Fiddler , and he went on his way . 
After a time he said to himself again Time hangs very heavily on my hands when I'm all alone in the wood I must try and find a companion . 
So he drew out his fiddle , and fiddled away lustily . 
Presently a fox slunk through the trees . 
Aha I what have we here ? said the Musician . 
A fox well , I haven't the smallest desire for his company . 
The Fox came straight up to him and said My dear friend , how beautifully you play the fiddle I would like to learn how you do it . 
Nothing easier , said the Musician . 
if you'll promise to do exactly as I tell you . 
Certainly , answered the Fox , you have only to say the word . 
Well , then , follow me , replied the Fiddler . 
When they had gone a bi of the way , they came to a path with high trees on each side . 
Then he bent a branch down from the other side and said Give me your left front paw , my little Fox , if you really wish to learn how it's done . 
The Fox did as he was told , and the Musician tied his front paw to the end of one of the branches . 
Now , my friend , he said , give me your right paw . 
Just you wait where you are till I return , said the Musician , and he went on his way again . 
Once more he said to himself Time hangs heavily on my hands when I'm all alone in the wood I must try and find another companion . 
So he took out his fiddle and played as merrily as before . 
This time a little hare came running up at the sound . 
Oh ! here comes a hare , said the Musician I've not the smallest desire for his company . 
How beautifully you play , dear Mr. Fiddler , said the little Hare . 
I wish I could learn how you do it . 
It's easily learnt , answered the Musician just do exactly as I tell you . 
That I will , said the Hare , you will find me a most attentive pupil . 
They went on a bit together , till they came to a thin part of the wood , where they found an aspen tree growing . 
The Musician bound a long cord round the little Hare's neck , the other end of which he fastened to the tree . 
Now , my merry little friend , said the Musician , run twenty times round the tree . 
Wait there till I return , said the Musician , and went on his way . 
In the meantime the Wolf had pulled and bitten and scratched at the stone , till at last he succeeded in getting his paws out . 
Full of anger , he hurried after the Musician , determined when he met him to tear him to pieces . 
When the Fox saw him running by , he called out as loud as he could Brother Wolf , come to my rescue , the Musician has deceived me too . 
The Wolf pulled the branches down , bit the cord in two , and set the Fox free . 
So they went on their way together , both vowing vengeance on the Musician . 
They found the poor imprisoned little Hare , and having set him free also , they all set out to look for their enemy . 
During this time the Musician had once more played his fiddle , and had been more fortunate in the result . 
The sounds pierced to the ears of a poor woodman , who instantly left his work , and with his hatchet under his arm came to listen to the music . 
At last I've got a proper sort of companion , said the Musician , for it was a human being I wanted all along , and not a wild animal . 
And he began playing so enchantingly that the poor man stood there as if bewitched , and his heart leapt for joy as he listened . 
And as he stood thus , the Wolf and Fox and little Hare came up , and the woodman saw at once that they meant mischief . 
THE STORY OF SIGURD This is a very old story the Danes who used to fight with the English in King Alfred's time knew this story . 
They have carved on the rocks pictures of some of the things that happen in the tale , and those carvings may still be seen . 
ONCE upon a time there was a King in the North who had won many wars , but now he was old . 
Yet he took a new wife , and then another Prince , who wanted to have married her , came up against him with a great army . 
The old King went out and fought bravely , but at last his sword broke , and he was wounded and his men fled . 
But he said No , his luck was gone , his sword was broken , and he must die . 
And he told her that she would have a son , and that son would be a great warrior , and would avenge him on the other King , his enemy . 
And he bade her keep the broken pieces of the sword , to make a new sword for his son , and that blade should be called Gram . 
So this was done , and they hid in a wood , but there some strangers met them and carried them off in a ship to Denmark . 
And when they were brought before the King , he thought the maid looked like a Queen , and the Queen like a maid . 
A strange Queen to light the fires , thought the King . 
A rich house where the maids wore gold , said the King . 
Truly you are no maid , but a King's daughter . 
So he treated her royally , and as time went on she had a son called Sigurd , a beautiful boy and very strong . 
He had a tutor to be with him , and once the tutor bade him go to the King and ask for a horse . 
Then the old man said , Drive all the horses into the river , and choose the one that swims across . 
So Sigurd drove them , and only one swam across . 
Sigurd chose him his name was Grani , and he came of Sleipnir's breed , and was the best horse in the world . 
For Sleipnir was the horse of Odin , the God of the North , and was as swift as the wind . 
But a day or two later his tutor said to Sigurd , There is a great treasure of gold hidden not far from here , and it would become you to win it . 
He is no bigger than other dragons , said the tutor , and if you were as brave as your father you would not fear him . 
Now there was at that time a dwarf called Andvari , who lived in a pool beneath a waterfall , and there he had hidden a great hoard of gold . 
And one day Otter had been fishing there , and had killed a salmon and eaten it , and was sleeping , like an otter , on a stone . 
Then someone came by , and threw a stone at the otter and killed it , and flayed off the skin , and took it to the house of Otter's father . 
Then the person who had killed Otter went down and caught the Dwarf who owned all the treasure and took it from him . 
Only one ring was left , which the Dwarf wore , and even that was taken from him . 
Then the poor Dwarf was very angry , and he prayed that the gold might never bring any but bad luck to all the men who might own it , for ever . 
Then the otter skin was filled with gold and covered with gold , all but one hair , and that was covered with the poor Dwarf's last ring . 
But it brought good luck to nobody . 
When Sigurd heard the story he said to Regin Make me a good sword that I may kill this Dragon . 
So Regin made a sword , and Sigurd tried it with a blow on a lump of iron , and the sword broke . 
Another sword he made , and Sigurd broke that too . 
Then Sigurd went to his mother , and asked for the broken pieces of his father's blade , and gave them to Regin . 
And he hammered and wrought them into a new sword , so sharp that fire seemed to burn along its edges . 
Sigurd tried this blade on the lump of iron , and it did not break , but split the iron in two . 
Then he threw a lock of wool into the river , and when it floated down against the sword it was cut into two pieces . 
So Sigurd said that sword would do . 
When he had been at home a few days , he rode out with Regin one morning to the heath where the Dragon used to lie . 
Then Sigurd went down into that deep place , and dug many pits in it , and in one of the pits he lay hidden with his sword drawn . 
There he waited , and presently the earth began to shake with the weight of the Dragon as he crawled to the water . 
And a cloud of venom flew before him as he snorted and roared , so that it would have been death to stand before him . 
But Sigurd waited till half of him had crawled over the pit , and then he thrust the sword Gram right into his very heart . 
Then the Dragon lashed with his tail till stones broke and trees crashed about him . 
Then he spoke , as he died , and said Whoever thou art that hast slain me this gold shall be thy ruin , and the ruin of all who own it . 
Sigurd said I would touch none of it if by losing it I should never die . 
But all men die , and no brave man lets death frighten him from his desire . 
Die thou , Fafnir , and then Fafnir died . 
And after that Sigurd was called Fafnir's Bane , and Dragonslayer . 
Then Sigurd rode back , and met Regin , and Regin asked him to roast Fafnir's heart and let him taste of it . 
So Sigurd put the heart of Fafnir on a stake , and roasted it . 
But it chanced that he touched it with his finger , and it burned him . 
Then he put his finger in his mouth , and so tasted the heart of Fafnir . 
The next bird said There lies Regin , ready to betray Sigurd , who trusts him . 
The third bird said Let him cut off Regin's head , and keep all the gold to himself . 
The fourth bird said That let him do , and then ride over Hindfell , to the place where Brynhild sleeps . 
When Sigurd heard all this , and how Regin was plotting to betray him , he cut off Regin's head with one blow of the sword Gram . 
Then all 'he birds broke out singing We know a fair maid , A fair maiden sleeping Sigurd , be not afraid , Sigurd , win thou the maid Fortune is keeping . 
High over Hindfell Red fire is flaming , There doth the maiden dwell She that should love thee well , Meet for thy taming . 
There must she sleep till thou Comest for her waking Rise up and ride , for now Sure she will swear the vow Fearless of breaking . 
Then Sigurd remembered how the story went that somewhere , far away , there was a beautiful lady enchanted . 
There he determined to go , but first he rode right down the horrible trail of Fafnir . 
All these he piled on the back of the good horse Grani , and then he rode south to Hindfell . 
Then he set the horse Grani at the fire , and he leaped through it lightly , as if it had been through the heather . 
So Sigurd went within the castle door , and there he saw someone sleeping , clad all in armour . 
Then he took the helmet off the head of the sleeper , and behold , she was a most beautiful lady . 
Long ago , too , she had vowed never to marry a man who knew fear , and dared not ride through the fence of flaming fire . 
For she was a warrior maid herself , and went armed into the battle like a man . 
Then Sigurd rode away , and he came to the house of a King who had a fair daughter . 
Her name was Gudrun , and her mother was a witch . 
Now Gudrun fell in love with Sigurd , but he was always talking of Brynhild , how beautiful she was and how dear . 
Now the witch , the mother of Gudrun , wanted her son Gunnar to marry Brynhild , and she bade him ride out with Sigurd and go and woo her . 
So forth they rode to her father's house , for Brynhild had quite gone out of Sigurd's mind by reason of the witch's wine , but she remembered him and loved him still . 
Then Gunnar tried Sigurd's horse Grani , but he would not move with Gunnar on his back . 
Then Gunnar remembered witchcraft that his mother had taught him , and by his magic he made Sigurd look exactly like himself , and he looked exactly like Gunnar . 
And Brynhild went to her father , and said that a King had come called Gunnar , and had ridden the fire , and she must marry him . 
Yet I thought , she said , that no man could have done this deed but Sigurd , Fafnir's bane , who was my true love . 
But he has forgotten me , and my promise I must keep . 
So Gunnar and Brynhild were married , though it was not Gunnar but Sigurd in Gunnar's shape , that had ridden the fire . 
And when the wedding was over and all the feast , then the magic of the witch's wine went out of Sigurd's brain , and he remembered all . 
But he was brave , and he spoke not a word of it to the others to make them unhappy . 
Still he could not keep away the curse which was to come on every one who owned the treasure of the dwarf Andvari , and his fatal golden ring . 
And the curse soon came upon all of them . 
For one day , when Brynhild and Gudrun were bathing , Brynhild waded farthest out into the river , and said she did that to show she was Guirun's superior . 
For her husband , she said , had ridden through the flame when no other man dared face it . 
Then Brynhild saw the ring which Sigard had given to Gudrun , and she knew it and knew all , and she turned as pale as a dead woman , and went home . 
All that evening she never spoke . 
And she said he would never see her glad in his hall , never drinking wine , never playing chess , never embroidering with the golden thread , never speaking words of kindness . 
Then she rent all her needlework asunder and wept aloud , so that everyone in the house heard her . 
For her heart was broken , and her pride was broken in the same hour . 
She had lost her true love , Sigurd , the slayer of Fafnir , and she was married to a man who was a liar . 
Then Sigurd came and tried to comfort her , but she would not listen , and said she wished the sword stood fast in his heart . 
Not long to wait , he said , till the bitter sword stands fast in my heart , and thou will not live long when I am dead . 
But , dear Brynhild , live and be comforted , and love Gunnar thy husband , and I will give thee all the gold , the treasure of the dragon Fafnir . 
Brynhild said It is too late . 
Then Sigurd was so grieved and his heart so swelled in his breast that it burst the steel rings of his shirt of mail . 
Sigurd went out and Brynhild determined to slay him . 
But Sigurd woke , and caught the sword Gram into his hand , and threw it at the man as he fled , and the sword cut him in twain . 
Thus died Sigurd , Fafnir's bane , whom no ten men could have slain in fair fight . 
Then Gudrun wakened and saw him dead , and she moaned aloud , and Brynhild heard her and laughed but the kind horse Grani lay down and died of very grief . 
And then Brynhild fell a weeping till her heart broke . 
And the wind bore it blazing out to sea , flaming into the dark . 
So there were Sigurd and Brynhild burned together , and the curse of the dwarf Andvari was fulfilled . 
