REZANOV BY GERTRUDE ATHERTON With an Introduction by WILLIAM MARION REEDY INTRODUCTION A long list of works Gertrude Atherton has to her credit as a writer . 
She is indisputably a woman of genius . 
Not that her genius is distinctively feminine , though she is in matters historical a pas sionate partisan . 
Most of the critics who approve her work agree that in the main she views life with somewhat of the masculine spirit of liberality . 
She does no less well in the depiction of men than in the portraiture of women . 
All stand out of their vivid environment distinctly and they are all personalities of power even , occasionally , of that strong power called weakness . 
And they all wear something of a glory imparted to them by the sympathy of their creator and interpreter . 
High upon any roster of our best American writers we must enroll the name of Mrs. Atherton . 
Of all her books I like best this Rezanov , though I have not found many to agree with me . 
It is not so pretentious as others more frequently commended . 
It is a simple story , almost one might say an incident or an anecdote . 
It is not literally sophisticated . 
For me that is its unfailing charm . 
I find in it not a little of the strange , primeval quality that makes me think of Aucassin and Nico lette . 
For it is not so much a novel as an his torical idyl , not to be read without a persisting suffusion of sympathy and never to be remembered without a recurring tenderness . 
Remembered , did I say ? It is unforgettable . 
There are few books of American origin that resist so well the passing of the years , that take on more steadily the glam our of the unimaginable touch of time . 
Rez anov is a classic , or I miss my guess . 
This , though it was first published so recently as . 
The story has the merit of being , to some extent historically , and wholly artistically , true . 
For the matter of facts Mrs. Atherton provides a bibliog raphy of her authorities . 
Those authorities I have not read , nor should others . 
Sufficient unto me is the authority of the novel itself splendidly demonstrated and established in the high court of the reader's head and heart by the author's visu alizing veritism . 
He comes out of mystery into the softly bright light of California , in strength and shrewdness and dignity and per sonal splendor . 
And there is amidst it all a pathos upon him . 
He commands your affection even while suggesting a doubt whether the man may not be overwhelmed in the diplomat , the intriguer . 
The monstrous apparition of Napo leon has loomed an omen of the doom of ancient authority and the shattering of nations in Europe . 
That faithless , incalculable idealist Alexander , plans he knows not what of imperial glory in the Eastern and Western world . 
Rezanov is his ser vant , a man of ambition , perhaps in all favor at court , desirous of doing some great service for his master . 
He dreams of dominion in this sun soaked land so lazily held in the lax grasp of Spain . 
He has come from failure . 
He had gone then to bleak , in hospitable Sitka , to find the settlement there in a plague of scurvy and starvation only slightly miti gated by vodka . 
Down the coast then he sailed to the Spanish settlement for food for the settlement . 
He comes to that place where in his vision he sees arise that city of the future which we know now as San Francisco . 
Masterful man that he is , he feels that here some great thing awaits him . 
The Spaniards are wary of him . 
They will not trade with him , but they receive him courteously and they are fascinated by his self possessed , well poised but withal so gracious personality . 
The life there at the time is a sort of lotus eating existence . 
It is a piece of Spain translated to a more luscious , a lovelier land , overlooking beautiful seas and peril ous . 
Into the dolce far niente Rezanov enters with some surrender to its softening spell , but with the courtier's prudence . 
And he meets the girl , Concha Arguello . 
The doom of both is upon them at once . 
They have drunk the pois oned cup . 
Rezanov resists the first approaches of the delightful delirium , remembering Russia , his duty , his ambition , the poor starving men of the Sitka factory . 
At a party he dances with Concha and they both know that for each there is none other . 
The little community life pulses around them the faster because they are there . 
Concha would help the Rus sian to those ends immediate which he reveals to her , and succeeds . 
He tells her of Russia and his mighty position there . 
He would have her for his wife , his helper in the vast imperial affairs at the Russian capitol , his princess in his palace , augment ing his official and personal distinction . 
She shares his vision , rising to all the heights it unfolds in a splendid future . 
And as the prospect opens to her desire and his there looms the obstacle . 
They can not marry , for Rezanov is a heretic . 
And now the passion flames . 
This child woman will go with him . 
Conditioned upon this , the girl's parents consent . 
These lovers prate very little of love . 
Their desire runs too deep for mere speech . 
It is a desire made up of as much spiritual as carnal fire . 
It is fierce but steady in ecstacy and agony , indistinguish able the one from the other . 
Rezanov , man of the great world , it purifies . 
Concha it strengthens and makes indomitable . 
They will endure in faith and hope the faith and hope both dimmed by the vague and unshakable intui tion or premonition that fate has marked them for derision . 
Nevertheless , they will endure . 
There is a meeting on a path that overlooks where the white seas strike their tents . 
It is a meeting of little action , of few words . 
Delays , disasters to vehicles and horses and the maddening lengthening of time . 
From drenchings and freezing comes the fever that calls for more speed . 
The fever mounts , the traveler must stop and rest and be cared for . 
His visions commingle his objective and his memories . 
The snowy steppes and the inky rivers . 
His servant en ters the room in the inn . 
Where has Jon found Castilian roses in this barren land ? . 
and his unconquerably sanguine spirit flared high before a vision of eternal and unthinkable happiness . 
It is the spring in California , he thought , with a sigh that curled at the edge . 
However , life had made him philosophical the moments of un reasonable happiness are the most enviable no doubt , for there is neither gall nor satiety in the reaction . 
All this is as enchanting as well , as a woman's promise . 
What lies beyond ? Illiterate and mer cenary Spaniards , vicious natives , and boundless ennui , one may safely wager . 
But if all California is as beautiful as this , no man that has spent a winter in Sitka should ask for more . 
In the extent and variety of his travels Rezanov had seen Nature more awesome of feature but never more fair . 
It is like the approach to paradise , is it not , Excellency ? a deferential voice murmured at his elbow . 
The plenipotentiary frowned without turning his head . 
But I wonder you find anything to admire in such unportable objects as mountains and water . 
I have not seen a living thing but gulls and seal , and God knows we had enough of both at Sitka . 
Humph ! said Rezanov , and moved his shoulder in an uncontrollable gesture of dismissal . 
But the spell of the April morning was broken , although the learned doctor was not to be the only offender . 
The Golden Gate is but a mile in width and the swift current carried the Juno toward a low prom ontory from the base of which a shrill cry suddenly ascended . 
Once more the plenipotentiary on a delicate mission , he ordered the two naval officers sailing the ship to come forward , and retired to the dignified isola tion of the cabin . 
The oldest of the lieutenants , through the ship's trumpet , shouted back The Juno Sitka Russian . 
The Rus sians , as befitted the peaceful nature of their mis sion , obeyed without delay . 
This they knew to be the Presidio . 
A few moments later a deputation of officers , accompanied by a priest in the brown habit of the Franciscan order , started on horseback for the beach . 
Rezanov or dered Lieutenant Davidov and Dr . 
Langsdorff to the shore as his representatives . 
The commanding officer alone had invested himself with a gala serape , a square of red cloth with a bound and embroidered slit for the head . 
This was young Arguello's first taste of command , and life was dull on the northern peninsula he would have wel comed a declaration of war . 
Davidov and Langsdorff had come to shore in one of the JUNO'S canoes . 
The conversation was held in Latin between the two men of learning . 
Who are you and whence come you ? asked the priest . 
Langsdorff , who had been severely drilled by the plenipotentiary as to text , replied with a profound bow We are Russians engaged in completing the circumnavigation of the globe . 
The Juno is navigated by Lieutenant Davidov and Lieutenant Khovstov , of the Imperial Navy of Rus sia by gracious permission associated with the Ma rine of the Russo American Company . 
The priest turned to the Russians with a smile as diplo matic as that which Rezanov had drilled upon the ugly ingenuous countenance of his medicine man . 
But we cannot understand why his excellency comes to us so late and in so small a ship , rather than in the state with which he sailed from Europe . 
The explanation is simple , my father . 
An officer galloped furiously for horses . 
A few moments later they were still more deeply impressed by the appearance of their distinguished visitor as he stood erect in the boat that brought him to shore . 
In full uniform of dark green and gold lace , with cocked hat and the splendid order of St . 
Ann on his breast , Rezanov was by far the finest specimen of a man the Californians , themselves of ampler build than their European ancestors , had ever beheld . 
Of commanding stature and physique , with an air of highest breeding and repose , he looked both a man of the great world and an intol erant leader of men . 
His long oval face was thin and somewhat lined , the mouth heavily moulded and closely set , suggestive of sarcasm and humor the nose long , with arching and flexible nostrils . 
His eyes , seldom widely opened , were light blue , very keen , usually cold . 
Like many other men of his position in Europe , he had discarded wig and queue and wore his short fair hair unpowdered . 
It was a singularly imposing but hardly attractive presence , thought young Arguello , until Rezanov , after stepping on shore and bowing formally , sud denly smiled and held out his hand . 
It is true that the walls were of adobe and the roofs of tule , nor was there a tree on the sand hills encircling the stronghold . 
The Presidio was as delicately per fumed as a lady's bower , and its cannon faced the ever changing hues of water and island and hill . 
As the party approached , heads of all ages ap peared between the vines , and there was a low mur mur of irrepressible curiosity and delight . 
We do not see many strangers in this lonely land , said Arguello apologetically . 
And never before have we had so distinguished a guest as your excellency . 
It was always a gala day when ever a Boston skipper came in with a few bales of goods and a complexion like the hides we sold him . 
Now , alas ! they are no longer permitted to enter our ports . 
Governor Arrillaga will have none of contra band trade and slaying of our otter . 
And as for Europeans other than Spaniards , save for an Eng lish sea captain now and then , they know naught of our existence . 
But Rezanov had not come to California on the impulse of a moment . 
He replied suavely There you are mistaken . 
Your illustrious father , Don Jose Mario de Arguello , is well known to us as the most respected , eminent and influential character in the Californias . 
Ay ! senor ! exclaimed the young Californian . 
What you say fills me with a pride I cannot ex press , and I can only regret that the reports of our poor habitations should be so sadly exaggerated . 
Such as our possessions are , however , they are yours while you deign to remain in our midst . 
This is my father's house . 
I beg that you will regard it as your own . 
Burn it if you will ! he cried with more enthusiasm than commonly enlivened the phrases of hospitality . 
He will be proud to know that a lifetime of severe attention to duty and of devotion to his King have won him fame abroad as well as at home . 
Arguello impulsively led Rezanov back to the gates and pointed to the east . 
I congratulate you ! Rezanov , indifferent to his host's ancestral tree , had lifted an alert ear . 
His quick incisive brain was at work . 
I should like to stretch my legs over a horse for a week at a time , and even to climb your highest mountains . 
You may imagine how much exercise a man may get on a vessel of two hundred and six tons , and it is thirty two days since I left Sitka . 
I promise you the Governor shall not withhold his consent and there are bear and deer quail , wild duck your excellency will enjoy that beauti ful wild country as I have done . 
Arguello was enchanted at the prospect of fresh adventure in the company of this fascinating stranger . 
But we are once more at our poor abode , senor . 
I beg you to remember that it is your own . 
They ascended the steps of the piazza , suddenly deserted , and it seemed to Rezanov that every sense in his being quivered responsively to the poignant sweetness of the Castilian roses . 
Such is the elixir of California in the north and the spring . 
made himself as comfortable as the slippery chair would permit , and Arguello went for his mother . 
Langsdorff , who had lingered on the piazza with the priest , entered in a moment . 
Many cuttings were brought from Spain What difference does it make where it came from ? interrupted Rezanov testily . 
An inner door opened and the host reappeared with his mother and a fair demonstration of her virtues . 
Her full face had lost its con tours , but time had spared the fine Roman nose and the white skin , that birthright of the high bred Castilian . 
Arguello presented his family ceremo niously as the guest of honor rose and bowed with formal deference . 
My mother , Dona Ignacia Arguello , your ex cellency , who unites with me in praying that you will regard our home as yours during your so journ in the north . 
My sister , Maria de la Con cepcion Marcella Arguello , and my little sisters , Ana Paula and Gertrudis Rudisinda . 
My oldest brother , alas Ignacio is studying for holy or ders in Mexico , and my sister Isabel visits at the Presidio of Santa Barbara . 
I beg that you will be seated , Excellency . 
And he continued the intro duction to the lesser luminaries , with equal cour tesy but fewer periods . 
She had responded with a humorous twinkle in her magnificent black eyes and not a hint of diffidence . 
Gervasio and Santiago resembled their sister in coloring and profile , but lacked her subtle quality of personality and divine innocence . 
Luis was more the mother's son than the father's sav ing his olive skin a grandee , modified by the sim plicities of a soldier's life , amiable and upright . 
Concha had already re ceived many offers of marriage and regarded men as mere swingers of incense . 
Moreover , her cul tivated mind was filled with ideals and ideas far beyond anything California would yield in her day . 
As Rezanov , upon Dona Ignacia's retreat , walked directly over to her , she smilingly seated herself on a sofa and swept aside her voluminous white skirts . 
She was not sure that she liked him , but in no doubt whatever of her delight at his advent . 
Her manners were very simple and artless , as are the manners of most women whom Nature has gifted with complexity and depth . 
It is now two years and more that we have been excited over the prospect of this visit , she said . 
I stare at the map , then at the few pictures we have . 
You shall improve my Spanish . 
I will impart all I know of Europe and of Asia if your curiosity reaches that far . 
Even of Japan ? There was a wicked spark in her eye . 
I see you already have some knowledge of the cause of my delay . 
His voice was even , but a wound smarted . 
Japan wanted neither the friendship of Russia nor her gimcracks . 
It is to be hoped that Count Golofkin , who was to undertake a similar mission to China , has met with a better fate . 
Underneath the polished armour of a man who was a courtier when he chose and the dominating spirit always , he was hot and quick of temper . 
His light cold eyes glowed with resentment at the danc ing lights in hers , as he cynically gave her a bald abstract of the unfortunate mission . 
He was astonished to see her eyes suddenly soften and her mouth tremble . 
It must have been a hateful experience hate ful ! Her voice , beginning on its usual low soft note , rose to a hoarse pitch of indignation . 
Concha wore one in her soft dusky hair , and an other where the little round jacket of white linen , gaily embroidered with pink , met on her bosom . 
But if sentiment tempted him he was quickly poised by her next remarks . 
She uttered them in a low tone , although the animated conversation of the rest of the party would have permitted the two on the sofa to exchange the vows of love unheard . 
I even will help you if you mean no harm to my father or my country . 
Then she lifted her chin and pouted her childish lips at the ironical smile of the priest . 
It was quite possible that she might be as useful as she desired . 
But his impulses were in leash . 
He merely looked and murmured his ad miration . 
He divested the rose of its thorns and many tight little buds , and thrust the stem underneath the star of St . 
She lifted her chin again and tossed her head . 
You do not trust me , but you will . 
I fancy it will be before long for it is quite true that the Californians are not so easily outwitted . 
And even did I not help you , I would not I vow , senor ! betray you . 
Is it true that Russia is at war with Spain ? What ? Have you not heard ? It was for that we were all so excited this morning . 
We thought your ship might be the first of a fleet . 
I have heard no such rumor , and you may dis miss it . 
The pink in her cheeks had turned red . 
The thin nostrils of her pretty Roman nose fluttered like paper . 
Ah ! she exclaimed , again with that note of hoarseness in her voice . 
There is a great man , not a mere king on a throne his ancestors made for him . 
Papa hates him because he has seized a throne . 
AY YI ! DIOS , but you should hear the words fly when we go to war together . 
But I do not care that she snapped her firm white fingers for all the Bour bons that are in Europe . 
When you have improved my Spanish I will tell you many anecdotes of him . 
He has risen to be the most powerful of all Californians , although the King he adores never makes him Gobernador Proprietario . 
I tell him he should be the first to recognize the genius and the ambitions of a Bonaparte . 
The mere thought hor rifies him . 
And if I know anything of women , I can trust her for as long as she may be necessary , at all events . 
III Santiago ! whispered Concha . 
Do not go down to the ship . 
Take me for a walk . 
I have much to say . 
If you do not , I'll not braid your hair to mor row , said his sister , giving his arm a little shake and he succumbed . 
The luxuriant tresses of the male Arguellos were combed and braided and tied with a ribbon every morning by the women of the family , and Concha's fingers were the gentlest and deftest . 
And Concha and Santiago were more inti mate than even the rest of that united family . 
They had studied and read together , were equally dis satisfied with their narrow existence , ambitious for a wider experience . 
Santiago consoled himself with cards and training roosters for battle , and otherwise as a man may . 
She led him through a postern gate , round the first of the dunes , and they were alone in a waste of sand . 
She demanded abruptly What do you think of our illustrious visitor ? I like him . 
He would wring your neck if you got in his way , but has a kind heart for those that call him master . 
I like that sort of a man . 
I wish he would take me away with him . 
He shall one of these days . 
Santiago mio , let me whisper She pulled his ear down to her lips . 
He has talked to me the whole day . 
He has told me grave secrets . 
Not even to you would I reveal them . 
So many have loved me why should not he ? I shall live in St . 
Petersburg , and see all Europe ! thousands of people Dios mio ! Dios mio ! Indeed ! Santiago , still unamiable , responded to this confidence with a sneer . 
You aspire very high for a little girl of the wilderness , without for tune , and only half a coat of arms , so to speak . 
Do you know that this Rezanov Dr . 
Nobody has ever been so clever at managing those old beasts of autocrats as he . 
The Tsar Paul was a lunatic and they murdered him , but meanwhile he signed the ukase . 
Petersburg and become so high and mighty that a princess would snap at him . 
And you aspire ! I never heard such nonsense . 
His excellency told me much of this , replied Concha imperturbably . 
And I am sure that he cares nothing for princesses and will marry whom he most admires . 
He would not say , but I know he cared nothing for that poor little wife , dead so long ago . 
It was a mariage de convenance , such as all the great world is accustomed to . 
He will love me more than all the fine ladies he has ever seen . 
I know it ! And I am quite happy . 
Do you love him ? asked Santiago , looking curiously at his sister's flushed and glowing face . 
It seemed to him that she had never looked so young . 
I had begun to think you had no heart for men , no wish for any thing but admiration . 
And now you give your heart in a day to this Russian who must be nearly forty unasked . 
I have not thought of my heart at all . 
But I could love him , of course . 
Ah ! there is the pleasure of being a girl to think and dream of all those beautiful things , not of when the wife must live always for the husband and children . 
And why should I not have all ! there is so little in life for the girl . 
It seems to me now that I have had nothing . 
You are not going to morrow , he reminded her . 
Don't cross your bridges until you come to them . 
That is a good proverb for maids and men . 
You might take us all with you , or spend every third year or so in California . 
No doubt you would need the rest . 
Console yourself with the reflection that if he were , our father and the priests , and the Governor himself , would die of apoplexy . 
IV It was long before Rezanov slept that night . 
He shared the evening bowl of punch in the cabin , then went his way lamenting that he could not take his new friends with him . 
Rezanov paced the little deck of the Juno to keep his blood in stir . 
The islands and promontories on the great sheet of water were black save for the occasional glow of an Indian camp fire . 
There was not a sound but the lapping of the waves , the roar of distant breakers . 
Rezanov was uneasy on more scores than one . 
He was annoyed and mortified at the discovery made over the punch bowl that the girl he had taken to be twenty was but sixteen . 
Not only had he no long er the courage to witness their misery , but his for tune and his career were at stake . 
If he left the Emperor's northeastern dominions unreclaimed and failed to rescue the Company from its precarious condition , he hardly should care to return to St . 
Meanwhile , he was to confide in the priests at the Mission . 
Not only would their sympathies be enlisted , but they did much trading under the very nose of the govern ment . 
Rezanov had never received sounder advice , and had promptly accepted it . 
More over , there were other considerations . 
More over , there was hardly another court of importance in Europe with which he was not familiar , and few men had had a more complete experience of life . 
Nevertheless , he was by nature too impetuous ever to become under any provocation a dishonest man , and too normally a gentleman to deviate from a certain personal code of honor . 
A Spanish beauty of twenty , still unmarried , would be more than his match . 
After the dinner , in the seclusion of the sala , he had taken pains to explore for the causes of her mental ma turity . 
She was wholly artless in her love of books and of dis cussing them and nothing in their contents had dis turbed the sweetest innocence he had ever met . 
He dismissed the subject at last with an impatient shrug . 
Perhaps he was a conceited ass , as his Eng lish friends would say perhaps the Governor would be more amenable than she had represented . 
No man could forecast events . 
It was enough to be forearmed . 
But his thoughts swung to a theme as little dis burdening . 
His needs , as he had confided to Con cha , were very pressing . 
In Santiago's story of the Russian visitor's achievements and status there was the common mingling of truth and fiction the exalted never fail to inspire . 
Rezanov , although he had accomplished great ends against greater odds , was too little of a courtier at heart ever to have been a prime favorite in St . 
Petersburg until the accession of a ruler with whom he had something in common . 
Ann , and chose him for the critical embassy to the verdant realm with the blind and gateless walls . 
Rezanov had conquered so far in life even less by address than by the demonstration of abilities very singular in a man of his birth and education . 
When he met Shelikov , during the Siberian merchant trader's visit to St . 
The accidental acquaintance ripened into intimacy , Rezanov became a partner in the Shelikov Golikov Company , and married the daugh ter of his new friend . 
And if the regnant merchants made large fortunes , the enter prise in general suffered from the rivalries between the various companies , and above all from lack of imperial support . 
Before it was ready for the imperial signature she died . 
Rezanov was forced to begin again with her ill balanced and in tractable son . 
For a time the outlook was dark . 
Paul announced his attention to abolish all the companies and close the colonies to traders big and little . 
But the enemy had a very subtle antagonist in Rezanov . 
Apparently dismissing the subject , he ap plied himself to gaining a personal ascendancy over the erratic but impressionable Tsar . 
The commercial and historic advantages of prosperous northeastern possessions were artfully instilled . 
Without more ado he obtained his charter . 
All private traders who refused to join the Company were to be allowed to sell their property and depart in peace . 
Perturbed in mind at his re cent failures and immediate prospects , he was no less determined to take California from the Span iards either by absorption or force . 
On his way from New Archangel to San Fran cisco he had met with his second failure since leav ing St . 
Upon this trip it would be enough to make a survey of the ground and bury a copper plate inscribed Possession of the Rus sian Empire . 
The Juno had encountered terrific storms . 
The privilege of writing personally to the Tsar , in his case , meant more and less than appeared on the surface . 
It was a measure to keep the reports of the Company out of the hands of the Admiralty College , its bitterest enemy , and always jealous of the Civil Service . 
Petersburg again , with practically no opposition to his highest ambitions . 
These ambitions he delib erately kept in a fluid state for the present . 
More over , Europe , torn up by that human earthquake , Napoleon Bonaparte , must lose the greater half of its sweetness and savor . 
All that , however , could be determined upon his return to St . 
But meanwhile he must succeed with these Cali fornians , or they might prove , toy soldiers as they were , more perilous to his fortunes than enemies at court . 
He could not afford another failure and news of this attempt and an exposition of all that depended upon it were already on the road to the capital of Russia . 
Rather , their isolation made them the more wary . 
Baranhov , chief manager of the Company , had talked with American and British skippers for twenty years , and every item he had accumulated Rezanov had extracted . 
To day he had drawn further informa tion from Concha and her brothers and their art less descriptions as well as this incomparable bay had filled him with enthusiasm . 
But he did not see it . 
Once more he fell to dreaming . 
He had long since recovered from the disappointment induced by the orders compelling him to remain in the col onies . 
The great Company he had heretofore re garded merely as a source of income and a means of advancing his ambitions , he now loved as his child . 
The United States he barely considered . 
She whirled the molinillo in each cup as it was filled , whipping the fragrant liquid to froth pausing only to scold when her servant stained one of the dainty saucers or cups . 
Poor Rosa did not sing , although the spring attuned her broken spirit to a gentler melancholy than when the winds howled and the fog was cold in her marrow . 
Con cha , thoughtless in many things , did what she could to exorcise the terror and despair that stared from the eyes of the Indian and puzzled her deeply . 
Her black eyes were full of dancing lights , like the imprisoned sum flecks under the rose bush , and never had indolent Spanish hands moved so quickly . 
Mira ! Mira ! she cried to the luckless Rosa . 
That is the third time thou hast spilt the chocolate . 
Thy hands are of wood when they should be of air . 
A soft bit of linen to clean them , not that coarse rag . 
Dios de mi alma ! I shall send for Malia . 
For the love of Mary , senorita , have pity ! wailed Rosa . 
There see thanks to the Virgin I have poured three cups without spilling a drop . 
And this rag is of soft linen . 
The Russians go to the Mission this morning . 
Hast thou seen the Russians , Rosa ? I have seen them , senorita . 
Did I not serve at table yesterday ? True I had forgotten . 
His excellency wore no beard he who sat on my mother's right and opposite to me . 
He is very grand , senorita more grand than the Governor , who after all has red hair and is old . 
He is even grander than Don Jose , whom may the saints preserve or than the padres at the mission . 
Perhaps he is a king , like our King and natural lord in spain . 
Is he a king , senorita ? No , but he should be . 
Rosa , thou mayest have my red cloak that came from Mexico last year . 
I have a new one and that is too small . 
I had intended to give it to Ana Paula , but thou art a good girl and should have a gay mantle for Sunday , like the other girls . 
I have also a red ribbon for thy hair Rosa spilt half the contents of the chocolate pot on the floor and Concha gave her a sound box on the ear . 
However , she did not dismiss her , a sen tence for which the trembling girl prepared herself . 
Make more quickly ! cried the lady of caprice . 
But this is enough for the first . 
Make the rest and beat with the molinillo as I have done , and Malia will bring all to the cor ridor . 
She ran to her room and her mirror . 
Both were small , the room little more luxurious than the cell of a nun . 
But the roses hung over the window , the birds had built in the eaves , and over the wall the sun shone in . 
In one corner was an altar and a crucifix . 
If the walls were rough and white , they were spotless as the hands that shook out and then twisted high the fine dusky masses of hair . 
Her dress was of simple white linen made with a very full skirt and little round jacket , but embroidered by her own deft fingers with the color she loved best . 
It was served out there in the shade of the vines . 
Rezanov and Concha sat on the railing , and the man stared over his cup at the girl with the roses touching her cheeks and ruffling her hair . 
Do you like chocolate , senor ? asked Concha , who was not in the intellectual mood of yesterday . 
I made it myself I and my poor Rosa . 
It is the most delectable foam I have ever tasted . 
I am interested to know that it has the solid founda tion of a name . 
What is the matter with your Rosa ? She is an unfortunate . 
Her lover killed his wife , and it is said that she is not innocent herself . 
The lover serves in chains for eight years , and she is with us that we may make her repent and keep her from further sin . 
She is unhappy and will marry the man when his punishment is over . 
I am very sorry for her . 
Fancy you living close to a woman like that ! I find it detestable . 
Oh , surely not ! He loves her . 
I know that many men love more than once , but when they are punished like that , they must remember . 
Is it true that you are only sixteen ? Is that an impertinent question ? I cannot help it . 
Those years are so few , and so much wisdom has gone into that little head . 
Concha drew herself up with an air of offended dignity . 
Elena Castro , who lives on the other side , is but eighteen and she has three little ones . 
The Virgin brought them in the night and left them in the big rosebush you see before the door one at a time , of course . 
I am the godmother of the first Conchitita . 
She prays every night to the Virgin to bring her a real baby , but she is not old enough to take care of it and must wait . 
Twelve is too young to marry . 
Her eyes were wise , and Rezanov noted anew that her mouth alone was as young as her years . 
My father would not permit such a thing . 
I am glad he is not anxious we should marry soon . 
I should love to have the babies , though they are so sweet to play with and make little dresses for . 
But my mother says the Virgin does not bring the little ones to good girls poor Rosa had one but it died until their parents find them a husband first . 
He was fascinated , but more than ever on his guard . 
He recalled the per sonalities of the young officers that surrounded her . 
The very thought disposed him to twist their necks . 
VI The Mission San Francisco de Assisi stood at the head of a great valley about a league from the Presidio and facing the eastern hills . 
The little sheet of water was almost round , very green and set in a thicket of willows that were green , too , in the springtime , and golden in summer . 
Between the main group of buildings and the natural rampart of the San Bruno Mountains was the Rancheria , where the Indian families lived in eight long rows of isolated huts . 
In spite of vigilance an Indian escaped now and again to the mountains , where he could lie naked in the sun and curse the fetich of civilization . 
Suddenly , the mule flung out his heels , the enemy in the rear sprawled , the rope flew loose , the beast with a loud bray fled toward the willows of Dolores . 
But the young priest was both agile and angry . 
With a flying leap he reached the heaving back . 
The mule acknowl edged himself conquered . 
The body guard trotted on their own feet , and the party disappeared round a bend of the hills . 
Rezanov laughed heartily and even the glum vis age of Father Abella relaxed . 
It is a common sight , Excellency , he said . 
We are thankful to have a younger friar for such fatiguing work . 
Many a time have I belabored stubborn mules and bestrode bucking mustangs while searching for one of these ungrateful but no doubt chosen creatures . 
They were dismounted at the door of the church . 
The horses were led off by waiting Indians . 
The soldiers on guard saluted and stepped aside , and the party entered . 
Two priests in handsome vest ments stood before the altar , but the long dim nave was empty . 
Rezanov lit a candle and fastened it in an empty socket . 
Then with a whimsical twist of his mouth he lit and adjusted another . 
No doubt she has some fervent wish , like all children , he thought apologetically . 
And whether this will help her to realize it or not , at least it will be interesting to watch her eyes and mouth when I tell her . 
Will she melt , or flash , or receive my offering at her shrine as a matter of course ? I'll surprise her to night in the middle of a dance . 
He deposited a gold piece among the candles on the table and followed Father Abella through a side door . 
A corridor ran behind the long line of rooms designed not only for priests but for travellers al ways sure of a welcome at these hospitable Mis sions . 
Father Abella shuffled ahead , halted on the threshold of a large room , and ceremoniously in vited his guests to enter . 
I hope that I am to see every detail of your great work , replied the diplomatic guest of honor . 
But at your own leisure . 
Meanwhile , I beg that you will order one of your Indians to bring in the little presents I venture to offer as a token of my respect . 
You may have heard that the presents of his Im perial Majesty were refused by the Mikado of Japan . 
I reserved many of them for possible use in our own possessions , particularly a piece of cloth of gold . 
Have I been too presump tuous ? The priests all wore the eager expressions of chil dren . 
Could we not see them first ? asked Father Lan daeta of his superior and Father Abella sent a ser vant with an order to unload the horse and bring in the presents . 
Not a vestige of reserve lingered . 
Priests and guests sat about the table eating and drinking and chatting as were they old friends reunited , and Rezanov extracted much of the information he de sired . 
There were nine teen Missions and four Presidial districts San Diego , close to the border of Baja California , Santa Barbara , Monterey , and San Francisco . 
Each Mis sion had an immense grant of land , or rancho generally fifteen miles square for the raising of live stock , agricultural necessities , and the grape . 
Cattle and horses increased so rapidly that every few years there was a wholesale slaughter , although the agricultural yield was enormous . 
The first Presidio and Mission were founded at San Diego in July of the last at San Francisco in Sep tember and October of . 
Rezanov's polite interest in the virgin country was cut short by the entrance of two Indians carry ing heavy bundles , which they opened upon the floor without further delay . 
Rezanov looked on with an amused sigh , yet conscious of being more comprehending and sympathetic than if he had journeyed straight from Europe to California . 
It was not the first time he had felt a passing gratitude for his uncomfort able but illuminating sojourn so close to the springs of nature . 
Father Abella turned to Rezanov , his saturnine features relaxed . 
We are deeply grateful to your excellency , and our prayers shall follow you always . 
Never have we received presents so timely and so magnificent . 
And be sure we shall not forget the brave officers that have brought you safely to our distant shores , nor the distinguished scholar who guards your ex cellency's health . 
He turned to Langsdorff and repeated himself in Latin . 
Humph ! said Davidov in Russian . 
Much the Chamberlain will care for the prayers of the Cath olic Church if he has to go home with his cargo . 
But he has a fine opportunity here for the display of his diplomatic talents . 
I fancy they will avail him more than they did at Nagasaki where I am told he swore more than once when he should have kow towed and grinned . 
I shouldn't like to see him grin , replied Khos tov , as they finally started for the outbuildings . 
If he could go as far as that he would be the most terrible man living . 
Were it not for the fire in him that melts the iron just so often he would be crafty and cruel instead of subtle and firm . 
He is a for tunate man ! There were many fairies at his cradle ! I have always envied him , and now he is going to win that beautiful Dona Concha . 
She will look at none of us . 
We will doubtless meet others as beautiful at the ball to night , said Davidov philosophically . 
You are not in love with a girl who has barely spoken to you , I suppose . 
She had almost given me a rose this morning , when Rezanov , who was flattering the good Dona Ignacia with a moment of his attention , turned too soon . 
I might have been air . 
She looked straight through me . 
Such eyes ! Such teeth ! Such a form ! She is the most enchanting girl I have ever seen . 
And he will monopolize her without troubling to notice whether we even admire her or not . 
Pray heaven he does not break her heart . 
One must admit that , if he does fancy his own will was a personal gift from the Almighty . 
Perhaps she will break his . 
I never saw a more accomplished flirt . 
I know women , replied the shrewder Khos tov . 
When men like Rezanov make an effort to please He shrugged his shoulders . 
Some men are the offspring of Mars and Venus and most of us are not . 
We can at least be philosophers . 
Let us hope the dinner will be excellent . 
VII It proved to be the most delicate and savory repast that had excited their appetites this side of Europe . 
The friars had their consolations , and even Dona Ignacia Arguello was less gastronomic than Father Landaeta . 
He will succeed , he said to Davidov . 
I almost hoped he would not , he is so in different I might almost say so hostile to my own scientific adventures . 
But when he is in this mood , when those cold eyes brim with laughter and ordinary humanity , I am nothing better than his slave . 
We were , with astound ing cleverness , treated from the first like an audi ence in a new theatre . 
After we had solemnly been towed by a string of boats to anchor , under the Papen mountains , all Nagasaki appeared to turn out , men , women and children . 
The imperial sailors were distinguished by their uniforms of a large blue and white check , suggesting the pinafores of a brobdingnagian baby . 
The barges of the imperial princes were covered with blue and white awnings and towed to the sound of kettledrums and the loud measured cries of the boatmen . 
I sat on a chair of state in the central compartment of the barge , and quite alone my suite standing on a raised deck beyond . 
Before me on a table , mar vellously inlaid , were my credentials . 
I was sur rounded by curtains of sky blue silk and panels of polished lacquer inwrought with the Imperial arms in gold . 
The pol ished floor was covered by a magnificent carpet woven with alarming dragons whose jaws pointed directly at my chair of state . 
And such an escort and such a reception , both of ceremony and of curiosity , no Russian had ever boasted before . 
Flags waved , kettledrums beat , fans were flung into my very lap to autograph . 
The bay , the hills , were a blaze of color and a confusion of sound . 
The barracks were hung with tapestries and gay silks . 
They stood with their arms folded and their eyes on the inlaid devices at their feet . 
His voice dropped from its light ironical note , and became harsh and abrupt with reminiscent dis gust . 
And the end of it all was failure . 
The superb presents of the Tsar were rejected . 
But the mortification was the least of my wor ries . 
It would have been greatly to the advantage of the Japanese , and God knows it would have meant much to us . 
Then Rezanov having tickled the imaginations and delighted the curiosity of the priests , began to play upon their heartstrings . 
He led their disarmed understandings as far down the vale of tears as he deemed wise , then per mitted himself a magnificent burst of spontaneity . 
But I must have your sympathy and advice . 
It has long been my desire to establish relations between Russia and Spain that should be of mutual benefit to the col onies of both in this part of the western hemis phere . 
I have told you of the horrible condition and needs of my men . 
They must have a share in the superfluities of this most prodigal land . 
But I make no appeal to your mercy . 
Trade is not founded on charity . 
You well know we have much you are in daily need of . 
There should be a bi yearly interchange . 
He paused and looked from one staring face to the other . 
He had been wise in his appeal . 
They were deeply gratified at being taken into his confidence and virtually asked to out wit the military authorities they detested . 
Rezanov continued I have brought the Juno heavy laden , my fathers , and for the deliberate purpose of barter . 
She is full of Russian and Boston goods . 
I shall do my utmost to persuade your Governor to give me of his corn and other farinaceous foods in ex change . 
We will ! We will ! cried Father Abella . 
Would that you had come in the disguise of a common sea captain , for we have hoodwinked the commandantes more than once . 
But aside from the suspicion and distrust in which Spain holds Russia with so distinguished a visitor as your excellency , it would be impossible to traffic undetected . 
But there must be a way out . 
Will you come to morrow ? We will ! and one way or another they shall be ours and you shall have breadstuffs for your pitiable subjects . 
We have as much need of Europe as you can have of California , for Mexico is dilatory and often disregards our orders altogether . 
One way or another we have your promise , Excellency ? I shall not leave California without accomplish ing what I came for , said Rezanov . 
VIII Concha boxed Rosa's ears twice while being dressed for the ball that evening . 
It was true that excitement had reigned throughout the Presidio all day , for never had a ball been so hastily planned . 
Don Luis had demurred when Concha proposed it at breakfast officially to entertain strangers not yet officially received exceeded his authority . 
Concha , waxing stubborn with opposition , vowed that she would give the ball herself if he did not . 
Business immediately afterward took the Commandante ad . 
down to the Battery at Yerba Buena . 
He returned in the afternoon to find that Concha had outwitted him . 
The sala of the Commandante's house was very large . 
Con cha laughed gaily as Luis stormed about the sala rasping his spurs on the bare floor . 
Whitewashed walls for guests from St . 
Peters burg ! she jeered , as Luis menaced the flags . 
We have little enough to offer . 
Besides what more wise than to flaunt our flag in the face of the Rus sian bear ? Their flag , of course , is a mere idle compliment . 
When I told her you might tear them down , she vowed that if you did she would dance all night with the Bostonian . 
But his face was bony and freckled , and his figure less in height and vigor than her own . 
He was rich and well born , but shy and very modest . 
Concha Arguello , La Favorita of California , was for some such dashing caballero as Don Antonio Castro of Monterey , or Ignacio Sal , the most adventurous rider of the north . 
Meanwhile he could look at her and adore her in secret , and Dona Rafaella Sal was very kind and danced as well as himself . 
That was six years ago and never a word had come from Madrid . 
Luis was faithful , but men were men , and girls grew older every day . 
And the American was patient , and even had he known , would not in the least have minded the use she made of him . 
He still could look at Concha Arguello . 
William Sturgis had sailed in one of his father's ships , now six years ago , from Boston in search of health . 
The ship in a dense fog had gone on the rocks in the straits between the Farallones and the Bay of San Francisco . 
For the next month he was an invalid in the house of the Commandante . 
Fortunately , his papers and money were sewn in an oilskin belt and his father's name was well known in California . 
Moreover , there never was a more likable youth . 
For some time there was demur on the part of the authorities Spain welcomed no foreigners in her colonies . 
Here he raised fruit and vegetables for his own hospitable table , chickens and game cocks . 
Books and other lux uries came by every ship from Boston until for a long interval ships came no more . 
Moreover , he neither sighed nor lan guished , nor ever had sung at her grating . 
But she regarded him merely as an intelligence , a well of refreshment in her stagnant life , never as a man . 
Like what , then ? Like like nothing but himself , senorita . 
You would not have him otherwise . 
If I could roll them into one a tamale of corn and chicken and peppers there would be a man almost to my liking . 
But even then not quite . 
And one man what nonsense ! I have too much color to night , Rosa . 
No , senorita , you have never been so beautiful . 
When the lover comes and you love him , senorita , you will think him greater than our natural king and lord , and all other men poor Indians . 
But how shall I know ? Your heart will tell you , senorita . 
My heart ? My father and my mother will choose for me a husband whom I shall love as all other women love their husbands just enough and no more . 
Then I suppose I shall never know ? Would you marry at your parents' bidding , like a child , senorita ? I do not think you would . 
Concha looked at the girl in astonishment , but with a greater astonishment she suddenly realized that she would not . 
Even her little fingers stiffened in a rush of personality , of passionate resentment against the shackles bound by the ages about the feminine ego . 
I know not what thy sin was , she said musingly . 
But I have heard it said thou didst obey no law but thine own will and his . 
Why should the pun ishment have been so terrible ? Thou hast sworn to me thou didst not help to murder the woman . 
I cannot tell you , senorita . 
You will never know anything of sin but of love yes , I think you will know that , and before very long . 
Before long ? Concha's lips parted and the ner vous color she had deprecated left her cheeks . 
What meanest thou , Rosa ? Her voice rose hoarsely . 
And the Indian , with the insight of her own tragedy , replied The Russian has come for you , senorita . 
You will go with him , far away to the north and the snow . 
As she watched Rosa , huddled and convulsed , little pointed arrows flew into her brain . 
Concha had a larger vocabulary than other Californians of her sex , for she had read many books , and if never a novel , she knew some thing of poetry . 
She returned in a moment and stood over Rosa , but her voice when she spoke had lost its hoarseness and was cold and irritated . 
Control thyself , she said . 
And go and bathe thine eyes . 
Wouldst look like a tomato when it is time to pass the dulces and wines ? And think no more of thy lover until he can come out of prison and marry thee . 
She drew herself away as the woman attempted to clutch her skirts . 
I'll go as far as decency permits , for no one is so impressed by external magnificence as the Span iard . 
But full dress uniform and orders are enough an ambassador's sash and they might suspect I took them for the children they are . 
Children are not always fools . 
My stock is too tight . 
Remember that I am to dance , and am too tall for most wom men's pretty little ears . 
And I doubt if an ear is less thirsty for being so provocatively screened . 
He fain would have pressed the matter of the sash , but Rezanov , most indulgent of masters to this devoted servant , was never patient of insistence . 
Jon also regretted the powdered wig and queue , which he privately thought more befitting a fine gentleman than his own hair , even though the latter were thick and bright . 
I ventured to pack two of your excellency's wigs when we were leav ing St . 
Petersburg Good heavens , no ! cried Rezanov , rising to his feet and casting a last impatient glance at the mir ror . 
And he went up on deck . 
There , while awaiting his horses and escort , he had another glimpse of the happy Arcadian life of the Californians . 
These saddles were heavy with silver , the blanket beneath was embroidered with both silver and gold . 
Gay light laughter floated out on the cool evening breeze to the little ship in the harbor . 
It has been a good day , thought Rezanov , low ering his glass . 
It is like her to arrange so charm ing a finale . 
When he arrived at the Presidio the guitars were tinkling and the sala was full of eager and somber faces . 
The Californians had come early , deter mined to witness the arrival of the Russians . 
Very pretty most of the girls were , and by no means a bevy of brunettes . 
Concha's frock was made in this fashion , but quite different otherwise an aunt in the City of Mexico being mindful at whiles of the cravings of relatives in exile . 
It was of a soft shimmering white stuff covered with gold spangles and cut to reveal her young neck and arms . 
She stood at the head of the room with her mother as Rezanov entered , and he noticed for the first time how tall she was . 
Her lips , her skin , were luminous . 
Rezanov , in his splendid uniform and blazing orders , filled the sala with his presence as he walked past the rows of bright critical eyes toward his hostesses . 
The young lips of the maids parted with delight and the men frowned . 
For the first time William Sturgis felt the sickness of jealousy instead of its not unagreeable pain . 
Rezanov , wondering at the subtle change in Concha , bowed ceremoniously and murmured You will give me the first dance , senorita ? Certainly , Excellency . 
We can waltz , you see ! Are you not sur prised ? It is but one accomplishment the more . 
I feared a preference for your native dances , but ventured to hope you would teach me . 
They are easy to learn . 
You will watch us dance the contra danza after this . 
With whom do you dance it ? Her black eyelashes were very thick he barely caught the glance she shot him . 
The Russian bear growls , she said lightly . 
Did you expect to dance every dance with me ? I came for no other purpose . 
You would have several duels to fight to mor row . 
You have fought others , then ? Her voice was the softer with the effort to turn its edge . 
No more than most men , I suppose . 
May I ask how many have been fought for you ? My memory is no better than yours . 
Why should I burden it with trifles ? True . 
It doubtless is charged with matters far more serious than the desires of mere men . 
Tell me , senorita , what is your dearest wish ? He had bent his head and fixed his powerful gaze on her stubborn lashes . 
As he hoped , she raised startled eyes in which an angry glitter dawned . 
To his surprise he saw a flash of terror in her eyes before she dropped them , and felt her shiver . 
But she answered coldly You have wasted a candle , senor . 
I have never had a wish that was not instantly gratified . 
But I thank you for the kind thought . 
Pardon me if I say that no one has ever waltzed as well as your excellency , and I must not be selfish . 
I will release you if you are tired , but otherwise I shall do myself the honor to waltz with your friend later . 
I must look after my other guests , she said coldly and he was led with what grace he could summon to the fair but sulky Rafaella . 
How am I to help flirting with that girl ? he thought as he mechanically guided another light and graceful partner through the crowded room . 
If she were one girl I might resist . 
But since eleven o'clock yesterday morning she has been three . 
And if she was twenty yesterday , twelve this morning , she is twenty eight to night , and this might be a court ball in Madrid . 
I shall leave the day after I bring the Governor to terms . 
He sat beside Dona Ignacia during the contra danza and found the scene remarkably brilliant and animated considering the primitive conditions . 
The room was well lighted by many wicks stuck in lumps of tallow . 
The sweet night air blew in . 
When the dance finished his host introduced him to the prettiest of the girls and he paid them as many compliments as their heads would stand . 
He even took some trouble to talk to them , if only to fathom the sources of their unlikeness to Concha Arguello . 
He concluded that the gulf that separated her from these charming , vivacious , shallow young girls was not dug by education alone . 
The fact that it had developed haphazardly , with little or no help from her sentience , and was still fluid and un certain , but multiplied her in interest and charm . 
After all , he was but forty two . 
Life on the whole had been very kind to him . 
But he was by no means a weak man , and his mind counted the cost even while his imagination hummed . 
My mother has gone to Gertrudis Rudisinda , who is crying , said Concha . 
It is my pleasure to lead your excellency in to supper . 
Both speeches were gaily ap plauded , the conversation became animated and gen eral , and Concha dropped her voice to the attentive ear beside her . 
You were very successful to day at the Mission , Excellency . 
You looked like Caesar returned from Gaul but I suppose that all great conquests are merely the sum of many small ones . 
I do not regard the friendship of so shrewd a man as Father Abella a trifling conquest . 
And ac cording to yourself , dear senorita , it is essential to the success of a mission upon which many lives and my own honor depend . 
Is it really so serious ? she asked with a faint sneer . 
He drew himself up stiffly and his light eyes glowed with anger . 
It is a subject I never should have thought of introducing at a festivity like this , he said suavely . 
Her face had flushed hotly . 
She dropped her eyes and her voice trembled as she replied You humiliate me , senor , and I deserve it . 
I my poor Rosa told me something of her great tragedy while dressing me , and for the moment other things seemed unimportant . 
What is hunger and court favor beside a broken heart and a desolate life ? But that of course is the attitude of an ignorant girl . 
They were soft , and her voice was softer . 
I beg that you will forgive me , senor . 
And be sure that I take an even deeper interest in your great mission than yesterday . 
He asked abruptly Which is the friend whose little ones you envy ? You have made me wish to see them and her ? That is Elena beside Gervasio . 
I can take you to morrow to see them if you wish . 
She had cast down her eyes and her face was white . 
Pardon me if I say that I am surprised your parents should permit such a woman as this Rosa to attend you . 
I do not think poor Rosa would do anyone harm . 
But per haps it were as well she went elsewhere . 
We have had her long enough . 
I have taken a dislike to her . 
I reproach myself bitterly , but I cannot help it . 
I should like never to see her again . 
What has she told you ? Concha glanced up swiftly . 
She felt quite cer tain that he rolled a Russian oath under his tongue , and she made a slight involuntary motion toward him , her lips trembling apart . 
I do not know I do not know . 
But I no longer wish her near me . 
She life is very strange and terrible , senor . 
You know it well I , so little . 
Rezanov felt his breath short and his hands cold . 
For a moment he made no reply . 
Then he smiled charmingly and said in the conventional tone that was ever at his command Of course you know little of life in this Arcadia . 
One who hopes to be numbered among the best of your friends prays that you never may . 
Yes , senorita , life is strange strangely commonplace and disillusionizing but sometimes picturesque . 
She was tapping the table slowly with her fork , and he noted that her soft , childish mouth was set . 
No doubt you are quite right to put me off , she said finally , and in a voice as even as his own . 
And my intellect would do me little good if it did not teach me to ignore mysteries I can never hope to fathom . 
There is no such thing as life in your sense in this forgotten corner of the world , nor ever will be in my time . 
It would not be so mean a fate . 
Rezanov darted a look of angry contempt at the pale young man who was eating little and miser ably watching the handsome pair at the head of the table . 
You will not marry him ! he said briefly . 
I could do far worse . 
Concha's lashes framed an adorable glance that sent the blood to the hair of the sensitive youth . 
You have no idea how clever and good he is . 
And Madre de Dios ! I am so tired of California . 
But you are a part of it the very symbol of its future , it seems to me . 
I wish I had a sculptor in my suite . 
I should make him model you , label the statue 'California , and erect it on the peak of that big island out there . 
That is very poetical , but after all , you are only saying that I am a pretty savage with an education that will be more common in the next generation . 
It is little consolation for an existence where the most exciting event in a lifetime is the arrival of a foreign ship or the inauguration of a governor . 
And once more she smiled at Sturgis . 
He raised his glass impulsively , and she hers in gay response . 
A moment later she gave the signal to leave the table . 
Rezanov followed her back to the sala chewing the cud of many reflections . 
X Concha had eaten no supper . 
But Concha , after tapping the floor alternately with the points and the wooden heels of her slippers , for a few moments , suddenly made an imperious gesture to Ignacio Sal . 
He sprang to her side , took her hand , and once more there was the same monotonous tapping of toes and heels . 
Again there was a de lighted laughter , again a discomforted knight and a triumphant partner . 
Concha always gives us something we do not expect , said Santiago to Rezanov , whose eyes were twinkling . 
The other girls dance El Son and La Jota very gracefully yes . 
But Conchita dances with her head , and the musicians and the partner , when she takes one , have all they can do to follow . 
She will choose you , next , senor . 
Rezanov turned cold , and measured the distance to the door . 
I hope not ! he said . 
I should hate nothing so much as to make an exhibition of myself . 
I do not think she will choose another . 
I know by her feet that she intends to dance El Son in her own way , of course after all . 
Concha circled about the room twice with Sturgis , lifted him to the seventh heaven of expectancy , dis missed him as abruptly as the others . 
Lifting her chin with an expression of supreme disdain for all his sex , she stood a moment , swaying , her arms hanging at her sides . 
I am glad she will not dance with Weeliam , muttered Santiago . 
I love him yes but the Spanish dance is not for the Bostonian . 
Rezanov awaited her performance with an in terest that caused him some cynical amusement . 
But in a moment he had surrendered to her once more as a creature of inexhaustible surprise . 
The musicians , watching her , began to play more slowly . 
There he had seen the most dignified beauties of Europe dance at the most for mal of its courts . 
But Concha created the illusion of having stepped down from the throne in some bygone fashion to dance alone for her subjects and adorers . 
She glided up and down , back and forth , with a dreamy revealing mo tion as if assisting to shape some vague impas sioned image in the brain of a poet . 
She lifted her little feet in a manner that transformed boards into clouds . 
There were moments when she seemed actually to soar . 
She is a little genius ! thought Rezanov en thusiastically . 
Anything could be made of a woman like that . 
It was not her dancing alone that interested him , but its effect on her audience . 
The young men had begun with audible expressions of approval . 
They were now shouting and stamping and clapping . 
Gold and silver coins , chains , watches , jewels , bounced over the floor , to be laughingly ignored . 
Rezanov looked on in amazement , won dering if this were a part of the performance and if he should follow suit . 
Fastened by a blue ribbon to the fourth button of his closely fitting coat was a golden key , the outward symbol of his rank at court . 
He detached it , then made a sudden gesture that caught her attention . 
For a moment their eyes met . 
He tossed her the bauble , and mechanically she lifted her hand and caught it . 
Then she laughed con fusedly , shrugged her shoulders , bowed graciously to her audience , and signalled to the musicians to stop . 
Rezanov was at her side in a moment . 
You must be tired , he said . 
I insist that you come out on the veranda and rest . 
Very well , she said indifferently it is quite time we all went out to the air . 
Elena Castro followed closely , yet with a cavalier of her own that her friend might talk freely with this interesting stranger . 
The night air was cool and stimulating . 
The hills were black under the sparks of white fire in the high arch of the California sky . 
In the Presidio square were long blue shadows that might have been reflections of the smoldering blue beyond the stars . 
Rezanov and Concha sat on the railing at the end of the corridor . 
It is a custom all that very material admira tion ? he asked . 
A very old one , but not too often followed . 
Otherwise we should not prize it . 
But when some Favorita outdoes herself then she receives the greatest reward that man can think of gold and silver jewels . 
As you are not a Californian , senor , I take the liberty of re turning this without any foolish subterfuge . 
She handed him his contribution . 
I thank you all the same . 
It was a spontaneous act , and I am very proud . 
He accepted the key awkwardly , not daring to press it upon her , with the obvious banalities . 
But he felt a sudden desire to give her something , and , nothing better offering , he gathered half a dozen roses and laid them on her lap . 
I was disappointed that you did not wear your roses to night , he said . 
I associate them with you in my thoughts . 
Will you put one in your hair ? She found a place for two and thrust another in the neck of her gown . 
The rest she held closely in her hands . 
Then he noticed that she was very white , and again she shivered . 
You are cold and tired , he murmured , his eyes melting to hers . 
It was entrancing , but I hope never to see you give so much of yourself to others again . 
His hand in arranging the reboso touched hers . 
It lingered , and she stared up at him , help lessly , her eyes wide , her lips parted . 
She reminded him of a rabbit caught in a trap , and he had a sud den and violent revulsion of feeling . 
He rose and offered his arm . 
I should be a brute if I kept you talking out here . 
Slip off and go to bed . 
I shall start the guests , for I am very tired myself . 
XI He did not talk with her again for several days . 
He called in state , but remained only a few moments . 
But he had never felt better . 
At the end of a week his pallor had gone , his skin was tanned and fresh . 
Even his wretched crew were different men . 
They were given much leave on shore , and already might be seen escorting the serving women over the hills in the late afternoon . 
The estafette that had gone with Luis' letters to Monterey had taken one from Rezanov as well , ask ing permission to pay a visit of ceremony to the Governor . 
He knew the material he had to deal with at the moment , but nothing of that already , no doubt , on its way to the north . 
As the weather was so fine , he hoped to see them in time for chocolate at nine o'clock . 
He knew that Luis , who was pressingly included in the invitation , had left at daybreak for his father's rancho , some thirty miles to the south . 
There was a flutter at the Presidio when the invi tation of the Chamberlain was made known . 
The compliment was not unexpected , but there had been a lively speculation as to what form the Russian's return of hospitality would take . 
She would listen to no protest from her prudent mother and smothered her with kisses and a torrent of words . 
But , my Conchita , gasped Dona Ignacia , I have much to do . 
Thy father and his excellency come in two days . 
I feel it ! I know it ! And if we go now we disobey no law . 
Have they ever said we could not visit a foreign ship when they were not here ? We are light headed , irresponsible women . 
And if they should not let us go ! If the Governor and the Russian should disagree ! Now we have the opportunity for such a day as we never have had before . 
We go , madre mia , we go ! So it proved . 
The boys howled on the corridor , but the good senora felt she could not too liberally construe the kind invita tion of a chamberlain of the Russian Court . 
But no one missed them . 
Three of the ship's canoes awaited the guests , and as not one of the women had ever set foot in a boat , there was a chorus of shrieks . 
Dona Ignacia mur mured an audible prayer , and clutched Gertrudis Rudisinda to her breast . 
Madre de Dios ! The water ! I cannot ! she muttered . 
Con cha had already leaped into the second and waved a careless little salutation to the Juno . 
She felt indif ferent to everything but the certain pleasure of the day . 
Rezanov was sure to be charming . 
What mattered the morrow , and possible nights of doubt , despair , hatred of life and wondering self contempt ? Rezanov awaited the canoes in the prow of the ship . 
He wore undress uniform and a cap instead of the cocked hat of ceremony which had excited their awe . 
He too tingled with a sense of youthful gaiety and adventure . 
Shawls and ells of cotton and all that sort of thing are of no use to a bachelor , and I hope you will rid me of some of them . 
Dona Ignacia lost all interest in the breakfast , and presently , murmuring an excuse , was escorted by Langsdorff down to the cabin . 
When the light repast was over , Rezanov made a signal to several sailors who awaited commands , and they sprang to the anchor and sails . 
We are going to have a cruise , announced the host to his guests . 
The bay is very smooth , there is a fine breeze , we shall neither be becalmed nor otherwise the sport of inclement waters . 
I know that most of you have never seen this beautiful bay and that you will enjoy its scenery as much as I shall . 
He moved to Concha's side and dropped his voice . 
This is for you , senorita , he said . 
You want change , variety , and I have planned to give you all that I can in one day . 
I expect you to be happy . 
I shall be , she said dryly , if only in watching a diplomat get his way . 
You will see every corner of our bay , and I shall have the delightful sensation of doing something for which I cannot be held re sponsible . 
I am quite willing that you should understand me , he said . 
But it is true that I thought as much of you as of myself . 
In a few moments the ship was under way . 
San tiago and Sturgis had gone down to the cabin to reassure Dona Ignacia , who uttered a loud cry as the Juno gave a preliminary lurch . 
Gervasio and Rivera had opened their eyes as Rezanov abruptly unfolded his plan , but dropped them sleepily before the delight of the girls . 
They were sailing east , and would turn to the north in a moment . 
The view of the main waters was broken by the largest of the islands , but far away were the hills of the east and the soft blue peaks behind . 
And over all , hills and valley and canyon and mountain , was a bright opalescent mist . 
Green , pink , and other pale col ors gleamed as behind a thin layer of crystal . 
Where the sun shone through a low white cloud upon a distant slope there might have been a great globe of iridescent glass illuminated within . 
The water was a light , soft , filmy yet translucent blue . 
Concha gazed with parted lips . 
I never knew before how wonderful it was , she murmured . 
I have been taught to believe that only the south is beautiful , and when we had to come here again from Santa Barbara it was exile . 
But now I am glad I was born in the north . 
But I am glad to see trees again . 
From our anchorage I had but a bare glimpse of two or three . 
They seem to hide from the western winds . 
Are they so strong , then ? We have terrible winds , senor . 
I do not wonder the trees crouch to the east . 
But I must tell you our names . 
That is Nuestra Senora de los Angeles , and it opens a triple jaw , Luis has told me , at Point Tiburon you will soon see the straits between . 
The big rock over there is Alcatraz , and farther away still is Yerba Buena that looks like a camel on its knees . 
But Rezanov was examining the scene before him . 
Never had he seen so many strategic advantages on one sheet of water . 
The islands farther south he had examined through his glass from the deck of the Juno until he knew every convolution they turned to the west . 
Concha was directing his attention to the tremen dous angular peak rising above the tumbled hills . 
That is Mount Tamalpais the mountain of peace . 
It was named by the Indians , not by us . 
Sometimes it is like a great purple shadow , and at others the clouds fight about it like the ghosts of big sea gulls . 
They were sailing past the rounded end of the western inner point of the little bay . 
It was almost detached from the bare ridge behind and half cov ered with oaks and willow trees . 
I have often looked at it through the glass and longed for a merienda in the deep shade . 
She turned to Rezanov with lips apart . 
Could we not oh , senor ! have our dinner on shore ? It is only for you to select the spot . 
We can sail many miles before it is time for dinner , and you may find a place even more to your liking . 
I fancy we can not go far here . 
It looks swampy and shal low . 
Nothing could be less romantic than to stick in the mud . 
I am not as rash as I may appear , replied Reza nov dryly , but smiling . 
In there was a chart of this bay , taken from a Spanish MSS . 
, published in London and I bought it there when I ran up from the Nadeshda anchored at Falmouth three years ago . 
Davidov , who , you may observe , is steering , oblivious to the charms of even Dona Caro lina , knows every sounding by heart . 
Oh ! Concha shrugged her shoulders . 
The Governor , too , is very clever . 
It will be a drawn battle . 
Perhaps I shall remain neutral after all . 
It would be more amusing . 
The ship was turning , and she waved her hand to the island between the deep arc of the hilly coast . 
How kind of you , senor ! How easily you are made happy ! he said , with a sigh . 
You look like a child . 
To day I shall be one and you the kind fairy god father , she added , with some malice . 
How old are you , senor ? Forty two . 
That is twenty six years older than myself . 
But your excellency might pass for thirty five , she added politely . 
We have all said it . 
And now that you are not so pale you will soon look younger and even more triumphant than when you came . 
I have never felt so triumphant as on this morn ing , dear senorita . 
I had not hoped to give you so much pleasure . 
Her cheeks were as pink as her reboso , her great black eyes were dancing . 
Her hands strained at the railing . 
I shall see La Bellissima ! La Bellis sima ! she cried . 
It was a primeval bit of nature , but sweet and silent and peaceful there was no sugges tion either of gloom or of discourteous beast . 
We shall have our dinner here , Excellency . 
There on that little beach and afterward we shall climb to the top . 
See , there are trails ! The In dians have been here . 
They stood out through the straits between Point Tiburon and the Isle of the Angels , where the tide ran fast . 
Then , for the first time , was Rezanov able to form a definite idea of the size and shape of this great natural harbor . 
To the south it extended be yond the peninsula in an unbroken sheet for some forty English miles . 
The greens were vivid where the sun shone on island and hill . 
The woods of Bellissima , the groves of Point Sausalito , the for ests in the northern canyons , deepened to purple like that of the great bare sweep of Tamalpais . 
Only the farther peaks remained a pale misty blue , and were of an indescribable floating delicacy . 
Concha pointed to the eastern double cone . 
That is Monte del Diablo . 
Once they say it spouted fire , but that was long ago , and all our volcanoes are dead . 
But perhaps not so long ago . 
I believe it was not here . 
Madre de Dios , I hope California shakes no more . 
She would is it not true , Excellency ? be the most perfect coun try in all the world did she not have the devil in her . 
Are you afraid of earthquakes ? asked Rezanov , who once more had transferred his comprehensive gaze from battery sites to her face . 
It is like feeling your grave turn over . 
But I fancy the poor old earth is like the people on her she gets tired of being good and is all the naughtier for having been sober too long . 
Her mother , her eyes dwelling fondly upon several shawls she hoped were intended for herself alone , was hushing the baby to sleep in the deep chair of his excellency . 
Ana Paula was playing with an Alaskan doll she had appropriated without ceremony . 
They are trifles , he said , in response to an en thusiastic chorus . 
The cargo I was obliged to take over was a very large one . 
I shall never miss these things . 
And he knew that he had sown the seeds of a rapacity simi lar to that implanted in the worthy bosoms of the priests when they had paid him their promised visit . 
If the Governor were insensible to diplomacy he would have pressure brought to bear upon his offi cial integrity from more quarters than one . 
There are also many of the presents rejected by the Mikado , somewhere , he added carelessly . 
But I could not find them . 
They must have found their way to the bottom of the hold during one of the storms we encountered on our way from Sitka . 
He had taken off his cap on deck , and the breeze had ruffled his thick fair hair , brought the blood to his thin cheeks . 
XII The eastern mountains looked very close from the crest of La Bellissima and of a singular transpar ency and variety of hue . 
It was as if the white masses of cloud sailing low overhead flung down great splashes of color from prismatic stores stolen from the sun . 
Santiago , Davidov , Carolina Xime'no , Delfina Ri vera , Concha and Rezanov , had climbed to the ridge . 
The other young people had given out halfway up the steep and tangled ascent and returned to the beach . 
Dona Ignacia immediately after dinner had frankly asked her host for the hospitality of his stateroom . 
Four of the party strayed along the crest in search of the first wild pansies . 
I should like to live here , said Concha defi nitely . 
It would make a fine estate for summer life or for a honeymoon . 
He smiled down upon his com panion , who stood very tall and straight and proud beside him . 
If you conclude to marry your little Bostonian no doubt he will buy it for you , he said . 
If he had hoped to see a look of blank dismay after his hours of devotion he was disappointed . 
She made a little face . 
I do not think I could stand a desert island with the good Weeliam . 
For that I should prefer one of my own sort Ignacio , or Fernando . 
Better still , I could come here and be a hermit . 
A hermit ? In some ways that would suit me very well . 
All human beings become tiresome , I find . 
I shall have a little hut just below the crest where I can look from my window right into the woods that are so quiet and green and beautiful . 
That is a thought that has always fascinated me . 
And when I walk on the crest I can see all the beauty of mountain and bay . 
What more could I want ? What more have you in your world when you know it too well , senor ? Nothing but you might tire , too , of this . 
What of it ? It would be the gentle sad ennui of peace , not of disillusion , senor . 
How I wish you would tell me all you know of life ! God forbid . 
And do not remind me of ennui and disillusions . 
I have forgotten both in California . 
Perhaps , after all , I shall not return to St . 
There is a vast empire here But it is not yours or Russia's to rule , Excel lency , she interrupted him softly . 
He did not color nor start , but met her eyes with his deep amused glance . 
I , too , can dream , seno rita . 
Of a great and wonderful kingdom that never will exist , perhaps . 
I have always been called a dreamer , but the habit has grown since I came to this lovely unreal land of yours . 
Have you the intention to take it from us , Ex cellency ? she asked quietly . 
Would you betray me if you thought I had ? Her eyes responded for a moment to the mag netism of his , and then she drew herself up . 
No , senor , I could not betray a man who had been our guest , and Spain needs no assistance from a weak girl to hold her own against Russia . 
Well said ! I kiss your hands , as they say in Vienna . 
But we must sail again . 
I told them to be ready at three o'clock . 
Dalliance with the most alluring girl he had ever known was all very well , but the day's work was not yet done . 
The shallow water curved abruptly inward between the rocky mass on the right and a gentler incline and point two miles below . 
At its head was the Battery of Yerba Buena , facing the island from which it took its name . 
Rezanov scrupulously kept his word and did not raise his glass , but one contemptuous glance satisfied his curiosity . 
Athens has no finer site than this , he said . 
I should like to see a white marble city on these hills , and on that plain , when all the sand dunes are leveled . 
Not in our time , perhaps ! But , as I told you , I have surrendered myself to the habit of dreaming . 
Concha shrugged her shoulders and made no re ply at the moment . 
Those are behind our rancho , senor Rancho El Pilar , or Las Pulgas , as some prefer . 
Perhaps my father will take you there . 
I hope so , for we love to go , and may not too often my father is very busy here . 
He is one of the few that has received a large grant of land , and it is because the clergy love him so much they oppose his wish in nothing . 
You saw a few of them in the hollow below Tamal pais , but up on those mountains there are miles and miles of mighty forests . 
No white man has ever penetrated them , nor ever will , perhaps . 
We have no use for them , and even if you made this your kingdom , senor , I suppose not many would come with you . 
When they had sailed south for a few moments the boat came about sharply . 
I had forgotten the chart . 
I rather hoped you would run on a shoal . 
But as they approached the cove of Yerba Buena again she caught his arm suddenly , unconscious of the act , and the little dancing lights of humor in her eyes went out . 
It broke into domes and cupolas , spires and minarets . 
Great waves rolled over the sand dunes and beat upon the cliffs with the phantoms clinging to its sides . 
Then the sun struggled with a thousand colors . 
The sun conquered , the mist shimmered into sun light , and once more the hills were gray and bare . 
Rezanov laughed , but his eyes glowed down upon her . 
I am not sure it was there , he said . 
I have an idea your imagination and touch acted as a sort of enchanter's wand . 
The others evidently saw nothing . 
The others saw only fog and shivered . 
But it was there , senor ! We have had a vision . 
A Rus sian city ! Ay , yi ! But Rezanov had forgotten the city . 
Her reboso had fallen and a strand of her hair blew across his face . 
His lips caught it and his eyes burned . 
They rounded a headland and the world looked green and young . 
Her eyes flashed and melted , she lifted her chin then burst into a merry ripple of laughter . 
Senor ! she said , if you make love to me , I shall have to compare you with many others , and I might not like the Russian fashion . 
But to sigh ! to languish with the eye ! to sing at the grating ! I fear that the lightest headed of the caballeros you despise could transcend you in all . 
Very likely ! I have not the least intention of sighing or languishing or singing at gratings . 
But if we were alone I certainly should kiss you . 
But her eyes did not melt again at the vision . 
She flushed hotly with annoyance . 
I am a child to you ! Were it not that I have read a few books , you would find me but a year older than Ana Paula . 
Well ! Regard me as a child and do not attempt to flirt with me again . 
She was quite right and on the whole he was grateful to her . 
Madre de Dios ! she cried angrily . 
Who would have expected such foolish words from you ? and now I have pricked my finger and stained my little frock . 
It will have to be washed before worn , and is never so pretty after . 
I am sorry , said Sturgis humbly . 
He should at least address her parents first . 
I was wholly the American for the mo ment . 
May I speak to Don Jose and Dona Ignacia , Concha ? How can I prevent ? No , I will not coquet with you , Weeliam . 
But I am angry that you have thought of such nonsense . 
Such friends as we were ! We have talked and read together by the hour , and my parents have thought no more of it than if it had been Santiago . 
There ! You have a new book in your pocket . 
Why did you not read it to me instead of making love ? Let me see it . 
I brought it to read later if you wished , but I came to ask you to marry me and to receive your answer . 
I never expected to ask you but lately things have changed life seems , somehow , more real . 
The thought of losing you has suddenly be come terrible . 
You have been drinking Russian tea , said Con cha , stitching quietly but flashing him a glance of amusement , not wholly without malice . 
It is true , he replied . 
I suppose I never really believed you would marry Raimundo or Ignacio or any of the caballeros . 
They think and talk of noth ing but horse racing , gambling , cock fighting , love and cigaritos . 
I thought of you always here , where at least I could look at you or read with you . 
But one must admit that this Russian is no ordinary man . 
I hate him , yet like him more than any I have ever met . 
Last night I stayed to punch with him , and we talked English for an hour . 
That is to say , he did I could have listened to him till morning . 
Langsdorff says that he has the greatest possible command of his native tongue , but he speaks Eng lish well enough . 
I wish I could despise him , but I do not believe I even hate him . 
He is more in love with you than he knows . 
Do you think so , Weeliam ? Still her voice was innocent and even , although the color rose above the inner commotion . 
But even so , what of it ? Have not many loved me ? Am I to be won by the first stranger ? I do not know . 
The tumult in Concha turned to wrath , and she lifted flashing eyes to his moody face . 
Her upper lip curled , her body stiffened for a moment , and she went on with her stitching . 
You deserve I should rap your silly little skull with my thimble . 
You are no better than Ignacio and Fernando . 
You never had the least , least reason to think I would marry you , and now , according to your own words , you think you have less . 
Then why , pray , did you address me ? Because I am a man , I suppose . 
I could not sit tamely down and see you go . 
She looked at him with a slight access of interest . 
A man ? Perhaps he was , after all . 
And his well bred , bony face looked very determined , albeit the eyes were wistful . 
Suddenly she felt sorry for him and she had never experienced a pang of sym pathy for a suitor before . 
She leaned forward and patted his hand . 
But what mat ter ? I shall never marry at all . 
For many years forty , fifty perhaps I shall sit here on the veranda , and you shall read to me . 
And then she shivered violently . 
But she set her mouth until it was almost straight , and picked up the little dress . 
Not that , perhaps , she said quietly in a moment . 
I sometimes think I should like to be a nun , that , after all , it is my vocation . 
Not a cloistered one , for that is but a selfish life . 
But to teach , to do good , to forget myself . 
To forget oneself ! That , after all , may be the secret of happiness . 
I envy none of my friends that are married . 
They have the dear children , it is true . 
But the children grow up and go away , and then one is fat and eats many dulces and the siesta grows longer and longer and the face very brown . 
That is life in California . 
But Concha , cried Sturgis eagerly , I could give you far better than that . 
I could take you away from here to Boston , to Europe . 
You should see live your life in the great cities you have dreamed of that you hardly believe in that were made to enjoy . 
I have told you of the theater , the opera you should go to the finest in the world . 
You should wear the most beautiful gowns and jewels , go to courts , see the great works of art I am not trying to bribe you , he stammered , flushing miserably . 
God forbid that I should stoop to any thing as mean as that . 
But it all rushed upon me suddenly that I could give you so much that you were made for , with this worthless money of mine . 
And what happiness to be in Europe with you what what His voice trembled and broke , and he dared not look at her . 
Again she stared through the vines . 
A splendid and thrilling panorama rose beyond them , her bosom heaved , her lips parted . 
She saw herself in it , and not alone . 
And not , alas , with the honest youth whose words had inspired it . 
In a moment she shook her head and turned her eyes on the flushed , averted face of her suitor . 
I shall never see Europe , she said gently , and I shall never marry . 
Not if this Russian asks you ? cried Sturgis , in his jealous misery . 
But Concha's anger did not rise again . 
He has no intention of asking a little California girl to share the honors of one of the most brilliant careers in Europe , she said calmly . 
Set your mind at rest . 
He has paid me no more attention than is due my position as the daughter of the Commandante , and perhaps of La Favorita . 
If I flirt a little and he flirts in response , that is nothing . 
Is he not then a man ? But he will forget me in a month . 
The world , his world , is full of pretty girls . 
A week ago you would not have said that , said Sturgis shrewdly . 
There has been nothing in your life to make you so humble . 
I cannot explain , but he seems to have brought the great world with him . 
I know , I understand so many things that I had not dreamed of a week ago . 
A week ! Madre de Dios ! And Sturgis , who after all was a gallant gentle man , made no comment . 
Rezanov had complied as a matter of course , and now he was alone with the men who held his fate in their hands . 
Napoleon Bonaparte is encamped about half way between the two countries . 
They could not get at each other if they wished . 
While that man is at large , Europe will be at war with him , no two na tions with each other . 
That is a manner of reasoning that had not occurred to me . 
No better epithet for him , he said . 
And the sooner Europe combines to get rid of him the bet ter . 
But until it does , count upon a common griev ance to unite your country and mine . 
Good ! muttered the Governor . 
Good ! I am glad that nightmare has lifted its bat's wings from our poor California . 
Captain O'Cain's raid two years ago made me apprehensive , for he took away some eleven hundred of our otter skins and his hunters were Aleutians subjects of the Tsar . 
Rezanov shrugged his shoulders and replied indif ferently I will ask Baranhov when I return to Sitka , and write you the particulars . 
It is more likely that the Aleutians were deserters . 
This O'Cain would not be the first shrewd Bostonian to tempt them , for they are admirable hunters and ready for any change . 
They make a greater de mand upon the Company for variety of diet than we are always prepared to meet , so many are the difficulties of transportation across Siberia . 
We need farinaceous stuffs of every sort . 
I will not pay so poor a com pliment to your knowledge of the northern settle ments as to enlarge upon the advantages California would reap from such a treaty . 
The Governor , who had permitted himself to touch the back of his chair after the dispersal of the war cloud , stiffened again . 
Ah ! He looked significantly at the Com mandante , who nodded . 
You come on a semi official mission , after all , then ? It is entirely my own idea , said Rezanov care lessly . 
The young Tsar is too much occupied with Bonaparte to give more than a passing thought to his colonies . 
But I have a free hand . 
Can I arrange the preliminaries of a treaty , I have only to return to St . 
Petersburg to receive his signature and highest approval . 
It would be a great feather in my cap I can assure your excellencies , he added , with a quick human glance and a sudden curve of his somewhat cynical mouth . 
Um ! said the Governor . 
Um ! But Arguello's stern face had further relaxed . 
Moreover , the idea of a friendly bond with another race on the lonely coast of the Pacific appealed to him irresistibly . 
He turned eagerly to the Governor . 
It is a fine idea , Excellency . 
We need much that they have , and it pleases me to think we should be able to supply the wants of others . 
Fancy any one wanting aught of California , except hides , to be sure . 
I did not think our existence was known save to an occasional British or Boston skipper . 
It is true we are here only to Christianize savages , but even they have need of much that cannot be manu factured in this God forsaken land . 
And we our selves could be more comfortable God in heaven , yes ! It is well to think it over , Excellency . 
Who knows ? we might have a trip to the north once in a while . 
Life is more excellent with something to look forward to . 
You should have a royal welcome . 
Baranhov is the most hospitable man in Russia , and I might have the happiness to be there myself . 
I see , by the way , that you have not engaged in shipbuilding . 
I need not say that we should supply the ships of com merce , with no diminution of your profits . 
We build at Okhotsk , Petropaulovski , Kadiak , and Sitka . 
They come to us for furs , and generally bring much for which we have no use . 
Captain D'Wolf , from whom I bought the Juno , had a cargo I was forced to take over . 
Um ! said the Governor . 
Um ! Rezanov did not remove his cool direct gaze from the snapping eyes opposite . 
I make no pretence of being disinter ested . 
I look forward to a career of ever increasing influence and power in St . 
Petersburg , and I wish to take back as many credits as possible . 
I understand , I understand ! The Governor rested his lame back once more . 
Your ambition is the more laudable , Excellency , since you have achieved so much already . 
I am not one to balk the honest ambition of any man , particularly when he does me the honor to take me into his confidence . 
I like this suggested measure . 
I be lieve it would redound to our mutual benefit and reputation . 
Is it not so , Jose ? The Commandante nodded vigorously . 
I am sure of it ! I am sure of it ! I like it much , much . 
I will write at once to the Viceroy of Mexico and ask that he lay the matter before the Cabinet and King . 
Without that high authority we can do nothing . 
But I see no reason to doubt the issue when we , who know the wants and needs of California , approve and desire . 
We are doomed to failure in this unwieldy land of worthless savages , but it is the business of the wretched servants of a glorious mon arch to do the best they can . 
Those damned Bostonians ! he shouted . 
I distrusted them years ago . 
They have too much calculation in their bluntness . 
They cheated us , sold us short , traded under my very nose , stole our otters , until I ordered them never to drop an anchor in California waters again . 
If their ridiculous upstart government dares to cast its eyes on California we shall know how to meet them the sooner they march on Mexico and lose their conceit the better . 
How they do brag ! Faugh ! It is sickening . 
I shall remember all you say , Excel lency and thank you for the hint . 
Rezanov rose , and the Commandante solemnly kissed him on either cheek . 
Governor Arrillaga is my guest , Excellency , he said . 
I beg that you will dine with us daily unofficially that you will re gard California as your own kingdom , and come and go at your pleasure . 
And my daughter begs me to remind you and your young officers that there will be informal dancing every night . 
So far so good , thought Rezanov , as he mounted his horse to return to the Juno . 
But what of my cargo ? I fancy there will be more diffi culty in that quarter . 
XV The Chamberlain was in a towering bad humor . 
What does this mean ? he roared to the sailor on watch . 
Clear them off overboard , every one of them . 
Without further ado , he flung the skins into the sea . 
Rezanov , to do him justice , would not have acted otherwise had he risen in the best of tempers . 
Langs dorff was his creature , and the sooner he realized the fact the better . 
Are these the cook's or the professor's ? The professor's , Excellency . 
And the birds followed the skins . 
Rezanov turned to confront the white and trembling Langsdorff . 
The naturalist was enfolded in a gorgeous Japanese dressing gown , purple bro cade embroidered with gold , that he had surrepti tiously bought in the harbor of Nagasaki . 
To Rezanov it was like a red rag to a bull but the pro fessor was oblivious at the moment of the tactless garment . 
His eyes were glaring and the extended tip of his nose worked like a knife trying to leap from its sheath . 
But although he occasionally ven tured upon a retort when goaded too far in conver sation , he was able to curb his just indignation when the Chamberlain was in a bad temper . 
In that vague gray under winking stars in their last watch , Rez anov seemed to tower six feet above him . 
Well ? My my specimens . 
Your what ? The cause of science is very dear to me , Excel lency . 
So it is to me in its proper place . 
Were those skins yours ? His voice became very suave . 
I am sorry you should have fatigued yourself for noth ing , but I am forced to remind you that this is not an expedition undertaken for the promotion of nat ural history . 
I am not violating my part in the con tract , I believe . 
He turned his back and ordered a canoe to be lowered . 
Since the arrival of the Governor and Commandante , now three days ago , all restrictions on his liberty had been removed , and the phrases of hospitality were a trifle less meaningless . 
This morning he wanted nothing but a walk . 
He had slept badly , the blood was in his head , his nerves were on edge . 
He went rapidly along the beach and over the steep hills that led to the north eastern point of the peninsula . 
If not another Moscow , then an Irkutsk in his day , at least . 
Not a word since that first interview had been said of his cargo nor even of the treaty , although nothing could have been more natural than the discussion of details . 
Whenever he had delicately broached either subject , he had been met with a polite indif ference , that had little in common with the cor diality otherwise shown him . 
He foresaw that he might be obliged to reveal the more pressing object of his visit without further diplomacy , and the thought irritated him beyond endurance . 
Whether Concha were giving him her promised aid he had no means of discovering , and herein lay another cause of his general vexation . 
He had dined every day at the Commandante's , danced there every night . 
Concha had been vivacious , friendly impersonal . 
He had not , indeed , had a word with her alone . 
But his interest and admiration had deepened . 
It was evident that her father and the Governor adored her , would deny her little . 
Her attitude to them was alternately that of the petted child and the chosen companion . 
As her mother was indisposed , she occupied her place at the table , presiding with dignity , guiding the conversation , revealing the rare gift of making everyone appear at his best . 
In the evening she had sometimes danced alone for a few moments , but more often with her Russian guests , and readily learning the English country dances they were anxious to teach . 
Rezanov would have found the gay informality of these evenings delight ful had his mind been at ease about his Sitkans , and Concha a trifle more personal . 
Once more she had stirred the dormant ideals of his early manhood there were moments when she floated before his inner vision as the embodiment of the world's beauty . 
And he thrilled with pride as he thought of Concha in St . 
Two years of court life and she would be one of the greatest ladies in Europe . 
That he could win her he believed , and without undue vanity . 
He had much to offer an ambitious girl conscious of her superiority to the men of this province of Spain , and chafing at the prospect of a lifetime in a bountiful desert . 
His only hesitation lay in his own doubt if she were worth the loss of his freedom , and all that word involved to a man of his position and adventurous spirit . 
At the same time he made a motion as if flinging aside an old burden . 
It is time for such nonsense to end , he thought contemptuously . 
And in truth these three years should have wrought such changes in me I doubt I should have patience for an hour of the old trifling . 
My greatest need from this time on , I fancy , is work . 
I could never be idle a month again . 
And when a man is in love with work and power and has passed forty does he want a constant com panion ? That is the point . 
At my time of life power exercises the most irresistible and lasting of all fascinations . 
A man that wins it has little left for a woman . 
Senor ! called a low cautious voice . 
Rezanov stepped hastily back from the point of the bluff and glanced about in wonder , his pulses suddenly astir . 
But he could see no one . 
This time the direction was unmistakable , and he went to the edge of the plateau facing the south and looked over . 
Halfway down a shallow and almost perpendicular gully , he saw a girl forcing a mustang up the harsh , loose path . 
As Rezanov reached her side , she gave him a grave and friendly smile , but no opportunity to kiss her hand . 
I have followed your excellency , she said . 
I have never come as far as this before , but there is some thing I wish to say to you , and there is no oppor tunity at home . 
I asked Santiago to find me one last night , but he was in a bad temper and would not . 
But the Governor has ! Madre de Dios ! all the women of the Presidio and the Mission have pes tered him . 
They are sick with jealousy at the shawls you gave us that day those that did not go to the ship . 
How clever of your excellency to give us just enough for ourselves and nothing for our friends ! And those that went want more and more . 
They have called upon him one , two , four , and alone . 
They have wept and scolded and pleaded . 
I did not know until yesterday that your commissary had also shown the things to the priests from San Jose Father Jose Uria and Father Pedro de la Cueva . 
They and the priests of San Francisco have argued with the Governor not once but three times . 
Dios ! how his poor excellency swore yesterday . 
He threatened to return at once to Monterey . 
Well ? asked Rezanov sharply , in spite of his amusement . 
When he does not swear , he answers only 'Buy if you have the money . 
I have never broken a law of Spain , and I shall not begin in my old age . 
He knows well that we have no money to send out of New Spain but I have conceived a plan , senor . 
It is for you , not for me , to suggest it . 
You will never betray that I have been your friend , Excellency ? I will swear it if you wish , said Rezanov frigidly . 
If I thought you could I should not be here . 
One often says such things . 
This is the plan You shall suggest that we buy your wares , and that you buy again with our money . 
The dear Governor only wants to save his conscience an ache , for we have driven him nearly distracted . 
I am sure he will consent , for you will know how to put it to him very diplomatically . 
But if he refused to understand , or his con science remained obdurate ? I should then have neither cargo nor ballast . 
He would never trick a guest , nor would he let the money go out of the country . 
And he knows well how much we need your cargo and longs to be able to state in his reports that he sold you a hold full of breadstuffs . 
Moreover , I think the time has come to tell him of the distress at Sitka . 
He is very soft hearted and is now in that distracted state of mind when only one more argument is required . 
I hope I have given you good advice , Excellency . 
It is the best I can think of . 
I have given it much thought , and the terrible state of those miserable creatures has kept me awake many nights . 
Will your excellency kindly remain here until I am well on my way ? and then return by the beach ? I shall go as I came , through the valley . 
Neither of us can be seen from the Bat tery . 
I will obey all your instructions , said Rezanov . 
But he did not move , nor could the mustang . 
Con cha smiled and pointed to the other side of the cleft , which was about as wide as a narrow street . 
Pardon , senor , I cannot turn . 
For a moment Rezanov stared at her , through her . 
Then his heavy eyes opened and flashed . 
Her face between the black folds turned whiter and she shrank back against the jagged wall and when his eyes flashed again with a wild eager hope she involuntarily crossed herself . 
He threw himself against the horse and snatched her down and kissed her as he had kissed no woman yet , recognizing her once for all . 
When he finally held her at arm's length for a moment he laughed confusedly . 
The Russian bear is no longer a figure of speech , he said . 
I forgot that you are as tender as you are strong . 
Her hands were tightly clasped against her breast and the breath was short in her throat , but she made no protest . 
Her eyes were radiant , her mouth was the only color in that gray dawn . 
In a moment she too laughed . 
Will it matter to you ? Are you strong enough ? It will be only a question of time to win them over , if you are . 
I was born with strength . 
He shook his head , although he still smiled at her . 
No , she said thoughtfully . 
I will confess what matters it ? I often dreamed that this would come just because I believed it would not . 
And I thought of everything . 
To change your religion would mean the ruin of your career moreover , it is not a possibility of your character . 
Were it I think I should not love you so much . 
Nor could I bear to think of any change in you . 
Only it will be harder longer . 
Then she stretched out her hand , and closed and opened it slowly . 
The most obtuse could not have failed to read the old simile of the steel in the velvet . 
I shall win be cause it is my nature and my power to hold what I grasp . 
But if they persistently refuse Dios ! she interrupted him . 
I am all women in one , not merely Concha Arguello , a girl of sixteen . 
She clasped her hands high above her head , lifting her eyes to the ashen vault so soon to yield to the gay brush of dawn . 
Before all that great mystery , she said solemnly , I give myself to you forever , how much or how little that may mean here on earth . 
XVI The Commandante of the San Francisco Company sat opposite Rezanov with his mouth open , the lines of his strong face elongated and relaxed . 
It was the hour of siesta , and they were alone in the sala . 
Mother of God ! he exclaimed . 
Mother of God ! Are you mad , Excellency ? No man was ever saner , said Rezanov cheer fully . 
Persuade the Governor to buy my cargo and they will look upon me as an amicus humani generis to whom common rules do not apply . 
And I have won their sincere friendship . 
You have won mine , senor . 
But , though I say it , there is no more devout Catholic in the Cali fornias than Jose Arguello . 
Do you know what they call me ? El santo . 
God knows I am not , but it is not for want of the wish . 
It is impossible , Excellency unless , indeed , you embrace our faith . 
That is so impossible that the subject is not worth the waste of a moment . 
But surely , Com mandante , in your excitement at this perfectly nat ural issue you are misrepresenting yourself . 
I do not believe , devout Catholic as you are , that your soul is steeped in fanaticism . 
You are known far and wide as the first and most intelligent of His Catholic Majesty's subjects in New Spain . 
But I doubt if your soul and conscience will have the peace you desire if you ruin her happiness in this . 
What pleasure do you find in the thought of an old age companioned by a heart broken daughter ? Don Jose turned pale and hitched his chair . 
Other maids have been balked when young , and have forgotten . 
Concha is but sixteen She is also unique . 
She will marry me or no one . 
Of that I am as certain as that she is the woman of women for me . 
How can you be so certain ? asked the Com mandante sharply . 
Surely you have had little talk alone with her ? The heart has a language of its own . 
Recall your own youth , senor . 
But this tremendous passion of the heart it passes , senor , it passes . 
We love the good wife , but we sometimes realize that we could have loved another good wife as well . 
That is a bit of philosophy I should have uttered myself , Commandante yesterday . 
But there are women and women , and your daughter is one of the chosen few who take from the years what the years take from others . 
I am not rushing into matri mony for the sake of a pair of black eyes and a fine figure . 
I have outlived the possibility of making a fool of myself if I would . 
Don Jose , despite his consternation , titillated agreeably . 
He privately thought no one in New Spain good enough for his daughter , and his weather beaten self was not yet insensible to the rare visitation of winged darts tipped with honey . 
Believe me , your excellency , I appreciate the honor you have done my house , and I will add with all my heart that never have I liked a man more . 
He passed it to his host , who had developed a preference for Rus sian cigarettes . 
There are other things to consider besides the happiness of your daughter and myself , he re marked . 
This alliance would mean the consolida tion of Spanish and Russian interests on the Pacific coast . 
It would mean the protection of California in the almost certain event of 'American' aggres sion . 
And I hear that a courier brought word again yesterday that the Russian and the Spanish fleets had sailed for these waters . 
Again the Commandante moved uneasily . 
The news from Mexico had kept himself and the Gov ernor awake the better part of the night . 
He fully appreciated the importance of this powerful Rus sian's friendship . 
Nothing would bind and commit him like taking a Californian to wife . 
But a heretic in his own family ! He was justly renowned for his piety . 
Aside from the wrath of the church , the mere thought of one of his offspring in matri monial community beyond its pale made him sick with repugnance . 
And yet California ! And he would have selected Rezanov for his daughter out of all men had he been of their faith . 
And he was deeply conscious of the honor that had descended , however unfruitfully , upon his house . 
Madre de Dios ! How would it end ? Suddenly he felt him self inspired . 
In blissful ignorance of her subtle feminine rule , he reminded himself that Concha's mind was the child of his own . 
He would make her feel the weight of the stern paternal hand , and then indicate the part she had to play . 
He rang a bell and directed the servant to sum mon his daughter , drew himself up to his full height , and set his rugged face in hard lines . 
As Concha entered he looked the Commandante , the stern disci plinarian , every inch of him . 
There was no trace of the siesta in Concha's cheeks . 
They were very white , but her eyes were steady and her mouth indomitable as she walked down the sala and took the chair Rezanov placed for her . 
Except for her Castilian fairness , she looked very like the martinet sitting on the other side of the table . 
The Commandante regarded her silently with brows drawn together . 
Dimly , he felt apprehension , wondered , in a flash of insight , if girls held fast to the parental recipe , or recombined with tongue in cheek . 
The bare possibility of resistance almost threw him into panic , but he controlled his features until the effort injected his eyes and drew in his nostrils . 
Concha regarded him calmly , al though her heart beat unevenly , for she dreaded the long strain she foresaw . 
The place for you is your room , with bread and water for a week . 
Sixteen ! Ignacio was born when my mother was sixteen , said Concha coolly . 
What of that ? She married whom and when she was told to marry . 
I have heard that you serenaded nightly beneath her grating So did others . 
But I was a Catholic ! The prejudice against my birth was an unworthy one . 
And she had the support of the priests . 
It is my misfortune that M. de Rezanov is not a Catholic , but it will make no difference . 
I shall not fall ill , for I am like you , not like my dear mother and the education you have given me is very different from hers . 
You do not ! shouted the irate Spaniard . 
You may not have intended but you have taught me to think for myself . 
And I have seen others besides M. de Rezanov the flower of Cali fornia and more than one fine gentleman from Mexico . 
I will have none of them . 
I will marry the man of my choice or no one . 
It may be that I know naught of love . 
If you wish , you may think that my choice of a husband is determined by ambi tion , that I am dazzled with the thought of court life in St . 
Petersburg , of being the consort of a great and wealthy noble . 
Love or ambition , I shall marry this Russian or I shall never marry at all . 
Mother of God ! Mother of God ! Don Jose's face was purple . 
The veins swelled in his neck . 
He was the more wroth because he recognized his own daughter and his own handiwork , because he saw that he confronted a Toledo blade , not a woman's brittle will . 
If you refuse your consent you will lose me in another way . 
I may not be able to marry as I wish , but I will have no worldly alternative . 
I shall join the Third Order of the Franciscans , and enter a convent as soon as one is built in California . 
To that you cannot withhold your consent , or they no longer would call you El santo . 
Don Jose leaped from his chair . 
Go to your room ! he thundered . 
And do not dare to leave it without my permission But Concha sprang forward and flung herself upon his neck . 
She rubbed her warm elastic cheek against his own in the manner he loved , and softened her voice . 
Papacito mio , papacito mio , she pleaded . 
Thou wilt not refuse thy Concha the only thing she has ever begged of thee . 
Don Jose pushed her from him with a heavy sob and hastily left the room , oblivious in the confusion of his faculties of the boon he conferred on the lovers . 
Concha dried her eyes , but her face was deathly pale . 
Go , she whispered , as he took her in his arms . 
Return for the dance to night as if nothing had happened I forgot , there is to be a bull bear fight in the square . 
So much the better , for it is in your honor , and you could not well remain away . 
There is much trouble to come , but in the end we shall win . 
XVII The muscles in Dona Ignacia's cheeks fell an inch as she listened , dumbfounded , to the tale her husband poured out . 
Holy Mary ! she whimpered , when her voice came back . 
Holy Mary ! A heretic ! And he would take our Concha from us ! And she would go ! To St . 
entered with the message that she was to accompany her parents to the Mission at once . 
She rose sullenly , but in the manifold essentials of a girl's life she had always yielded the implicit obedience exacted by the Californian parent . 
In a few moments she was riding out of the Presidio beside her father . 
Dona Ignacia jolted behind in her carreta , a low and clumsy vehicle , on solid wheels and springless , drawn by oxen , and driven by a stable boy on a mustang . 
Don Jose did not even look at his daughter , but his face was ten years older than in the morning . 
He shuffled off to order refreshments , and returned in time to disburden the carreta of Dona Ignacia no mean feat volubly delighted in the visit and the gossip it portended . 
But as he offered his arm to lead her into the sala , she pushed him aside and pointed to Concha , who had sprung to the ground unassisted . 
She has come to confess , padre ! she exclaimed , her mind , under the deep tiled roof of the corridor , readjusting itself to tragedy . 
I beg that you will take her at once . 
Padre Landaeta can give us chocolate and we will tell our terrible news to him and receive advice and consolation . 
He covered his face with his hand as she told her story . 
This she did in a few words , disjointed , for she was both tired and seething . 
For a few mo ments afterward there was a silence the good priest was increasingly disturbed and by no means certain of his course . 
He was astonished to feel a tug at his sleeve . 
Before he could reprove this impenitent child for audacity she had raised herself that she might approach her lips more closely to his ear . 
Do you hear ? I am in danger of mortal sin . 
Perhaps I am already in that state . 
You cannot save me if he goes . 
I will not come to the church . 
I will be an outcast . 
If I marry him , I will be a good Catholic to the end of my days . 
If I marry him I can think of other things besides of my church , my father , my mother , my sisters , brothers . 
In spite of his horror the priest was thrilled by the intense passion in the voice so close to his ear . 
Moreover , he knew women well , this good padre , for even in California they differed little from those that played ball with the world . 
So he dismissed the horror and spoke soothingly . 
You have always been such a good child that I am able to forgive you even in this terrible moment . 
But , my daughter , surely you know that this marriage can never take place It shall ! It shall ! Control yourself , my daughter . 
You cannot bring this man into the true church . 
His character is long since formed and cast it is iron . 
Even love will not melt it . 
Were he younger I should hate him . 
All young men are insuffer able to me always have been . 
I have found my mate , and have him I will if I have to hide in the hold of his ship . 
Ah , padre mio , I know not what I say . 
But you will help me . 
My father thinks you as wise as a saint . 
And there are other things my head turns round I can hardly think but you dare not lose the friendship of this Russian . 
And my marriage to him would be as much for the good of the Missions as for Cali fornia herself . 
Champion our course , point out that not only would it be a great match for me , but that many ends would be lost by ruining my life . 
You know me better than anyone . 
You know that I will not weaken and bend and submit , like a thousand other women . 
I could be bad bad bad and I will be ! Do you hear ? And she shook his arm violently , while her hoarse voice filled the church . 
My child ! My child ! I have always believed that you had it in you to become a saint . 
Yes , yes , I feel the strength and maturity of your nature , I know the lengths to which it might lead another but you could not be bad , Conchita . 
I have known many women . 
In you alone have I perceived the capacity for spiritual exaltation . 
You are the stuff of which saints and martyrs are made . 
The vio lent will , the transcendent passions they have existed in the greatest of our saints , and been con quered . 
I Oh , padre for the love of heaven He left the box hastily and lifted her where she had fallen and carried her into the room adjoining the church . 
He laid her on the floor , and ran for Dona Ignacia , who , refreshed with wine and chocolate , came swiftly . 
But Dona Ignacia's unresting heart had an intelli gence of its own , and no inner convulsion could alter the superb dignity of mien which Nature had granted her . 
As she rose and confronted Father Abella he moved forward with the instinct to kiss her hand , as he had seen Rezanov do . 
Alas ! this Russian , what has he done , when her own mother can give her no comfort ? We all love when young , but this is more . 
I loved Jose so much I thought I should die when they would have compelled me to marry another . 
She will not die , nor even go to bed and weep for days , but it is more . 
Concha will love but once , and she will suffer suffer She may be more than I , but I bore her and I know . 
And she cannot marry him . 
A heretic ! I no longer think of the terrible separation . 
Were he a Cath olic I should not think of myself again . 
Rezanov made the storm his excuse for not dining and dancing as usual at the house of the Commandante . 
But the relations be tween the Presidio and the Juno during the next few days were by no means strained . 
The dignitaries met as usual and conversed on all topics save those paramount in the minds of each . 
Nevertheless , there were three significant facts as well known to Rezanov as had they been aired to his liking . 
The priest , backed by his three coadjutors , had made it , and been repulsed with fury . 
From another quarter Rezanov learned that during his absence little else was discussed in the house of the Commandante save his formidable mat rimonial project , and the supposed designs to his country . 
Troops had been ordered from the south to reinforce the San Francisco garrisons , and were even now massed at Santa Clara , within a day's march of the bay . 
About a mile from the Presidio and almost oppo site the Juno's anchorage were six great stone tubs sunken in the ground and filled by a spring of clear water . 
In every Pre sidial district was a similar institution , and the four were known as the Wash Tub Mail . 
Rezanov furnished him with beads and other trinkets and was at no dis advantage thereafter . 
Two of his sailors deserted at the prospect of war , and his hosts , if neutral , were manifestly alert . 
These two young men had been with him almost constantly since his arrival , and demonstrated their friendship and even affection unfailingly but there was no love lost be tween himself and Gervasio . 
This young hidalgo had the hauteur and intense family pride of San tiago without his younger brother's frank intelli gence and lingering ingenuousness . 
With all the superiority and inferiority , he had made himself so unpopular that his real kindness of heart atoned for his absurdities only with those that knew him best . 
Rezanov was not one of these nor aspired to be . 
At the end of three days Rezanov had forgotten his cargo , and would have sent the Juno to the bot tom for ten minutes alone with Concha . 
He had been on fire with love of her since the moment of his actual surrender , and he was determined to have her if there were no other recourse but elopement . 
All his old and intense love of personal freedom had melted out of form in the crucible of his lover's imagination . 
Mind and soul and body he was a lover , a union unknown before . 
A few moments later they had helped themselves to cigarettes from the gift of the Tsar and were assuring Rezanov of their partisan ship and approval . 
We were somewhat taken aback at the first mo ment , Luis admitted . 
But well , we are both in love Santiago no less than I , although I have had these six long years of waiting and am likely to have another . 
They have already risen above the first natural impulse of selfishness , and would consent to the inevitable separation were you only a Catholic . 
I shall enlist Father Uria and Father de la Cueva as well . 
They also have great influence with my parents , and as they return to San Jose in two days to prepare for the visit of the most estim able Dr . 
Langsdorff , there is no time to lose . 
I shall go this morning . 
One more cigarito , senor , and when that treaty is drawn remember the con version of your brother to Russian tobacco . 
As he dropped over the side of the ship , Rezanov's hand fell lightly on the shoulder of Santiago . 
I can wait no longer to see your sister , he whispered , mindful of the sterner responsibilities of the older brother . 
Do you think you could Santiago nodded . 
While Luis is at the Mission I shall go to my cousin Juan Moraga's . 
You will dine with us at the Presidio , and I shall escort you back to the ship . 
The long ride was a silent one . 
The youth was not talkative at any time , and Rezanov was conscious of little else save an overwhelming desire to see Con cha again . 
One secret of his success in life was his gift of yielding to one energy at a time , oblivious at the moment to aught that might distract or en feeble the will . 
But when he faced her she was erect and smiling in a sudden uprush of spirits , almost indifferent . 
She wore a white gown and a rose in her hair . 
A rosebush as dense as an arbor spread its prickly arms between herself and the windows of the house . 
Good evening , she whispered . 
Rezanov gave the grill an angry shake . 
Come out , he said peremptorily , or let me in . 
My cousin planted those roses not for ornament , but to let the blood of defiant lovers . 
Not one has come twice Do you think I came here to talk to you through a grating ? I am no serenading Spaniard . 
But there was a hope that he would be a cadet of the Southern Company before the year was out , and his parents and hers were indulgent . 
His ego melted in a sense of complete union and happiness . 
She told him that she had talked daily with Father Abella . 
I can see it in his kind , shrewd , perplexed eyes , in the hesitating inflections of his voice , to say nothing of the poor arguments he advances to mine . 
As he was in compari son cheerful before , I fancy he apprehends the irre sistible appeal of your father's surrender . 
If my father yields he will see that you have everything else that you wish . 
I must , must bring you good fortune , she added anxiously . 
Marriage with a little California girl are you sure it will not ruin your career ? I can think of nothing that would advantage it more . 
What are you going to call me ? I cannot say Petrovich or Nicolai my Spanish tongue rebels . 
I shall call you Pedro . 
That is a very pretty name with us . 
My own harsh names suit my battered self rather better , but the more Californian you are and remain the happier I shall be . 
With a defiant sweep of her hands she lifted both loops of hair , and two little ears , rosy even in the moonlight , commanded amends and more from penitent lips . 
No man has ever seen them before since I was a baby not even my father and brothers , said Concha , trembling between horror and rapture at the tremendous surrender . 
You will never remind me of it . 
Ay yi ! promise Pedro mio ! On condition that you promise not to confess it . 
I should like to be sure that your mind belonged as much to me and as little to others as possible . 
I do not object to confession we have it in our church but remember that there are other things as sacred as your religion . 
I understand better than you understand Romanism . 
I must confess that I met you to night , but Father Abella is too discreet to ask for more . 
It is such blessed memories that feed the soul , and they would fly away on a whisper . 
XX The next morning Father Abella rode over to the Presidio and was closeted for an hour with the Commandante and the Governor . 
Then the three rode down to the beach , entered a canoe , and paddled out to the Juno . 
The quartette pledged each other in an embar rassed silence , disposed of a moment more with ob durate matches . 
Don Jose inhaled audibly , then lifted his eyes and met the veiled and steady gaze of the Russian . 
Senor , he said , I have come to tell you that I consent to your marriage with my daughter . 
Thank you , said Rezanov . 
And their hands clasped across the table . 
But this was far too simple for the taste of a Governor . 
So important an occasion demanded official dignity and many words . 
the peaceful monotony of our lives has been rudely shaken by a demand upon three fallible human beings to alter the course of history in two great nations . 
That is a sufficient excuse for the suspense to which we have been forced to subject you . 
When he hears of this projected alliance Projected ? exclaimed Rezanov . 
I wish to marry at once . 
Father Abella shook his head vigorously , but he spoke with great kindness . 
That , Excellency , alas , is the one point upon which we are forced to dis appoint you . 
Indeed , our own submission to your wishes is contingent . 
This marriage cannot take place without a dispensation from Rome and the consent of the King . 
Rezanov looked at Don Jose . 
You , too ? he asked curtly . 
The Commandante stirred uneasily , heaved a deep sigh he thought of the long impatience of his Con cha . 
It is true , he said . 
We should be ordered summarily to Mexico , perhaps worse , and no Russian would ever be permitted to set foot in the Californias again . 
I would it were otherwise . 
I know I know but it is inevitable . 
Your excel lency must see it . 
Even were you a Catholic , Gov ernor Arrillaga and the President of the Missions , at least , would not dare to countenance this mar riage without the consent of the King . 
Rezanov was silent for a few minutes . 
In spite of the emotions of the past few days he was aston ished at the depth and keenness of his disappoint ment . 
But never yet had he failed to realize when he was beaten , nor to trim his sails without loss of precious time . 
Very well , he said . 
I will go to St . 
Peters burg at the earliest possible moment , obtain personal letters from the Tsar and proceed post haste to Rome and Madrid . 
At the same time I shall arrange for the treaty with full authority from the Tsar . 
Then I shall sail from Spain to Mexico and reach here as soon as may be . 
It will take a long while , the best part of two years but I have your word You have , the three asserted with solemn em phasis . 
But there is one thing more . 
I am not in a diplomatic humor . 
My Sitkans are starv ing . 
I must leave here with a shipload of bread stuffs . 
Again the Governor drew up his slim soldierly figure deposited his cigarette on the malachite ash tray . 
You may be sure that we have given that momentous question our deepest consideration . 
I may have failed in every attempt to benefit and advance this Godforsaken country , but at least I have been the honest agent of my King . 
But the circumstances are extraordinary . 
Rezanov glowed to his finger tips . 
You must stay here no longer , Rezanov , said Don Jose , as they were taking leave . 
My house is now literally your own . 
Concha will remain at Juan Moraga's for the present . 
Concha had sent her father away deeply puzzled . 
But to his surprise she did not fling herself upon his neck with blandishments and tears . 
She merely became quite still , her light high spirits retreating as a breeze might before one of Nature's sudden and portentous calms . 
Her first sensation was one of bitter anger and disappointment with Rezanov . 
He had , apparently , in the first brief interview with their tribunal , given his consent to this long delay of their nuptials . 
Her thoughts since his advent had flown on many journeys and known little rest . 
The schools founded by the estimable and enterprising Borica had practically disappeared , and she was by far the best educated woman in California . 
For such there was a mani fest and an inexorable duty . 
And in it she would find her courage and her inspiration , as well as an unwasting sym pathy for those she taught . 
Then had come the sudden and passionate woo ing of Rezanov . 
All other ideals and aspirations had fled . 
She had alternated between the tragic extremes of bliss and despair . 
Last night life had seemed serious she had been girlishly , romantically happy . 
For the wall , indeed , she had been confusedly and deliciously grateful . 
But she dropped her lashes upon this unalluring vision , and as she did so , inevitably she began to excuse the man . 
None knew better than she every side of the great question that was shaking not only her life but Cali fornia itself . 
Appeal from the dictum of state and clergy would be a mere waste of time . 
The only alternative was flight . 
That would mean the wreck of Rezanov's avowed purposes in coming to this quarter of New Spain , and perhaps of others she dimly suspected . 
It would mean the very acme of misery for his Sitkans , and an indefensible blow to the Company . 
It might even prove the fatal mistake in his career , for which his enemies were ever on the alert . 
He was not communicative about himself except when he had an object in view , but he had told her something of his life , and his officers and Langsdorff had told more . 
But she sighed and drooped a little . 
The burden of woman's waiting seemed already to have de scended upon her . 
Two years were long long . 
There might be other delays . 
He might fall ill he had been ill before in that barbarous Russian north . 
And in all that time it was doubtful if she received a line from him , a hint of his welfare . 
Would that we lived a generation later , she thought with a heavy sigh . 
Progress is almost automatic , and to a land as fertile and desirable as this the stream must turn in due course . 
But not in my time . 
With all her imagination it was long before she could picture a great city covering that immense and almost deserted space . 
A pueblo in time , perhaps , for Rezanov had awakened her mind to the importance of the har bor as a port of call . 
But when she and her lover were dust . 
When she and her lover were dust . 
But she was too young and too ardent to listen long to the ravens of the spirit . 
Two years are not eternity , and in happiness the past rolls together like a scroll and is naught . 
Her lips that had been set with the gravity of stone re laxed in warm curves . 
The color came back to her cheek , the light to her eyes . 
She was a girl at her grating with the roses poignant above her , and the world , radiant , alluring , and all for her , swimming in the violet haze beyond . 
XXII Rezanov in those days was literally lord and mas ter at the Presidio . 
If he did not burn the house of his devoted host he ran it to suit himself . 
His leisure he employed scouring the country or shooting deer and quail in the company of his younger hosts . 
Nor had her eyes met his in a glance of understanding . 
And she accomplished her object . 
Rezanov , at the end of a week was not only infuriated but alarmed . 
He knew the imagination of woman , and guessed that Concha , in her brooding solitude , distorted all that was unfortunate in the present and dwelt morbidly on the future . 
He knew that she must resent his part in the long separation , no doubt his lack of im pulsiveness in not proposing elopement . 
Finally , he sought the co operation of Father Abella Santiago was in Mon terey and that wise student of maids and men gave him cheer . 
The elements were kind to the padres . 
The after noon was not too hot , although the sun flooded the plain and there was not a cloud on the dazzling blue of the sky . 
Never had the Mission and the man sions looked so white , their tiles so red . 
The Indian women were a blaze of color . 
The ladies on the corridor wore their mantillas , jewels , and the gay est of artificial flowers . 
There were as many fans as women . 
Rezanov sat between Father Abella and the Commandante , and not being in the best of tempers had never looked more imposing and re mote . 
But Concha's humble moments at this period of her life were rare , and she drew herself up proudly , the blood of the proudest race in Europe shaking angrily in her veins . 
A moment later , in response to a power greater than any within herself , she turned again . 
She wore a large mantilla of white Spanish lace . 
In the fashion of the day it rose at the back almost from the hem of her gown to de scend in a point over the high comb to her eyes . 
As the familiar scent assailed Rez anov's nostrils they tingled and expanded . 
Rezanov had that day sent them presents of glass beads and ribbons , and in these they took such extravagant pride that for some time their dancing was almost automatic . 
But while they danced a great bonfire was laid and kindled . 
The gyrations lasted a few minutes longer , then the chief seized a live ember and swallowed it . 
His example was immediately followed by his tribe , and , whether to relieve discomfort or with energies but quickened , they executed a series of incredible handsprings and acrobatic capers . 
When they finally whirled away on toes and finger tips , another chief , in the horns and hide of a deer , rushed in , pursued by a party of hunters . 
After an hour of this varied performance , the square was enlarged by several mounted vaqueros galloping about with warning cries and much flour ishing of lassos . 
The cap tors left the captives in the middle of the square , and without more ado the serious sport of the day began . 
But neither combatant was interested in aught but the other . 
The one sought to gore , his enemy to strike or hug . 
He sprang aside , lowered his horn and caught the bear in the chest . 
But the victor was a compact mass of battle and momentum . 
His onslaught flung the bear over backward , and quickly disen gaging himself he made another leap at his equally agile enemy . 
This time the battle was longer and more various , for the bull was smaller , more active and dexterous . 
Out of this they would emerge to stand panting in front of each other with tongues pendant and red eyes rolling . 
The vaqueros circled about the maddened bull , set his hide thick with ar rows , tripped him with the lasso . 
Did you enjoy that ? he asked curiously . 
I did not look at it . 
But I know that you were not affronted . 
You never took your eyes from those dreadful beasts . 
I am exhilarated to know that you watched me . 
Yes , at a bull fight the primitive man in me has its way , although I have the grace to be ashamed of myself afterward . 
In that I am at least one degree more civilized than your race , which never repents . 
The door of one of the smaller rooms stood open , and as they took advantage of this oversight with a singular concert of motive , he clasped both her hands in his . 
Are you angry with me ? he asked softly . 
He dared not close the door , but his back was square against it , and the other guests were moving down to the refectory . 
For liking such horrid sport ? We have no time to waste in coquetry . 
Her eyes melted , but she could not resist planting a dart . 
Not now I quite understand love could never be first with you . 
And two years are not so long . 
They quickly pass when one is busy . 
I shall find occupation , and you will have no time for long ings and regrets . 
They were not yet alone , women were talking in their light , high voices not a yard away . 
You have only to say the word , he said hoarsely , and the Juno will sail to night . 
Never before had she seen his face so unmasked . 
Her voice shook in triumph and response . 
Would you ? Would you ? Say the word ! You would sacrifice all the Company your career your Sitkans ? All everything . 
His own voice shook with more than passion , for even in that moment he counted the cost , but he did not care . 
But Concha detected that second break in his voice , and turned her head sadly . 
You would not say that to morrow . 
I hate my self that I made you say it now . 
I love you enough to wait forever , but I have not the courage to hand you over to your enemies . 
You are strangely far sighted for a young girl . 
And between admiration and pique , his ardor suf fered a chill . 
I am no longer a young girl . 
I have suffered in anticipation . 
But before he could interrupt her , take advantage of the retreating voices that left them alone at last , she had drawn herself up and moved a step away . 
Do not think , however , she said proudly , that I am really as weak and silly as that . 
It was only a mood . 
But I should not live a selfish life , or I should be unworthy of my election to experience a great and eternal passion . 
He glanced over his shoulder , then took her recklessly in his arms . 
Is it possible you doubt I will come back ? he demanded . 
My faith ? No , not that . 
But such happiness seems to me too great for this life . 
He remembered how often he had been close to death he knew that during the greater part of the next two years he should see the glimmer of the scythe oftener yet . 
For a moment it seemed to him that he felt the dark waters rise in his soul , heard the jeers of the gods at the vanity of mortal will . 
But the blood ran strong and warm in his veins . 
He shook off the obsession , and smiled a little cynically , even as he kissed her . 
This is the hour for romance , my dear . 
I wish I could arrange for some such set of memories for myself , but I am unequal to your divine melancholy . 
When I can not see you I am cross and sulky and just now I am , well philosophically happy . 
Some day I shall be happier , but this is well enough . 
And I can har bor no ugly presentiments . 
So make the most of the present . 
She nodded , but she noted with a sigh that he said no more of sudden flight . 
She would never have consented to jeopardize the least of his inter ests , but she fain would have been besought . 
The experience she had had of the vehemence and fire in Rezanov made her long for his complete subjugation and the happiness it must bring to her self . 
I fancy I shall return home to morrow , she said . 
The grat ing of my room at Elena's is above a little strip of Garden , and faces the blank wall of the next house . 
Sometimes who knows ? She shrugged her shoulders and gave a gay little laugh , then stood very erect and moved past him to the door . 
She had recognized the shuffling step of Father Abella . 
Is supper ready , padre mio ? she asked sweetly . 
His excellency and I have talked so much that we are very hungry . 
There is no need to deceive me , said Father Abella dryly . 
But I fancy the good God will forgive me . 
They are scat tered now , but will go to the refectory in a moment and miss you . 
He is having a wretched quarter of an hour , but has loyally diverted the attention of your mother . 
That is the vocation of certain men , said Con cha lightly . 
XXIII Life was very gay for a fortnight . 
Every house in the Presidio and val ley , every spare room at the Mission , opened to them with the exuberant hospitality of the country . 
The matrons brought their stiff robes of red and yellow satin , the girls as many flowered silks and lawns , mantillas and rebosos , as the family carretas would hold . 
No Californian walked a dozen rods when he had a horse to carry him . 
But the horses were not always champing in the square . 
This the Cali fornians called barbecue and the picnic merienda . 
There was dancing day and night , the tinkling of guitars , flirting of fans . 
Rezanov vowed he would not have believed there were so many fans and guitars in the world , and suddenly remembered he had never seen Concha with either . 
The lady of his choice reigned supreme . 
The girls were surprised and de lighted to find Concha sweet rather than proud and envied her with amiable enthusiasm . 
Khostov and Davidov watched the loading of the Juno with a lively regret . 
Never had they enjoyed themselves more , nor seen so many pretty girls in one place . 
As it was , their pleasures were unpoisoned by regrets or rebuffs . 
Even Langsdorff , although impervious to female charms and with scientific thirst unslaked , enjoyed the Spanish fare and the society of the priests . 
It was true that what he banteringly termed her romantic sadness possessed her at times , but it served as a shadow to throw into sharper relief an almost incredible happiness . 
If she seldom saw Rezanov alone there was the less to disturb her , and at least he was never far from her side . 
But the valley itself was less Californian than any part of the country Rezanov had seen . 
There were deer and quail in abundance , here and there an open field of grain . 
Long beards of pale green moss waved from the white oaks , wild flowers , golden red and pale blue , burst underfoot . 
There were hedges of sweet briar , acres of lupins , purple and yellow . 
Don Jose's house was a long rambling adobe , red tiled , with many bedrooms and one immense hall . 
Beyond were a chapel and a dozen outbuildings . 
There was a race track on the ranch and many fine horses . 
Even Rezanov shared the excitement of the shouting , clapping Californians , and Concha laughed delightedly when his cap waved with the sombreros . 
I think you will make a good Californian in time , she said as they rode homeward . 
Perhaps , said Rezanov musingly . 
The path was very abrupt , cut where the immense spread ing trees permitted , and Rezanov and Concha had no difficulty in falling away from the chattering , excited company . 
Tell me your ultimate plans , Pedro mio , said Concha softly . 
You are dreaming of something this moment beyond corn and treaties . 
Do you want that final proof ? he asked , smil ing . 
Well , if I could not trust you that would be the end of everything , and I know that I can . 
But now that these kind people have practically adopted me I cannot repay their hospi tality by any overt act of hostility . 
At all events , a cause for rupture would not be far to seek , and it would need no instigation of mine to despatch a fleet to these shores . 
They cannot hold this coun try . 
He caught Concha from her horse and strained her to him in the mount ing ardor of his plunge down the future . 
You must resent nothing ! he cried . 
My enemies have sought to persuade three sovereigns that I am a visionary , but I have already accomplished much that met with resentment and ridicule when I broached it . 
Al though he held her so closely that the horses were angrily biting each other , she felt that for once there was nothing personal in his ardor . 
XXIV We should all wear black for so mournful an oc casion , said Rafaella Sal , spreading out her scarlet skirts . 
The occasion is sad enough without giving it the air of a funeral . 
Sad ! Dios de mi alma ! Will he return ? Elena Castro shook her wise head . 
She was nearly twenty , and four years of matrimony had made her sceptical of man's capacity for romance . 
Two years are long , and he will see many girls , and become one again of a life that is always more brilliant than our sun in May . 
His eyes will be dazzled , his mind distracted , full to the brim . 
Petersburg and all the beautiful prin cesses will want to marry him . 
The flower of California stood on the corridor of the Mission and before the church await ing the guest of honor and his escort . 
A mass was to be said in behalf of the departing guests the Juno would sail with the turn of the afternoon tide . 
Concha , alone , wore no color her frock was white , her mantilla black . 
Yes , Concha has always been too fortunate , re peated Rafaella . 
But I doubt if it is the dress and the state she thinks of losing to day . 
She did not sleep last night . 
Her room is next to mine . 
No , it is of Rezanov she thinks , and always . 
Rafaella shuddered and crossed herself . 
Poor Concha ! Perhaps in the end she will always stand apart like that . 
Truly she is not as others . 
I have always said it . 
Thanks be to Mary it was Luis that wooed me , not the Russian , for I might have been tempted . 
True his eyes are blue , and only the black could win my heart . 
But the court of St . 
Petersburg ! Dios de mi vida ! Did I lie awake at night and think of Concha Arguello in red velvet and jewels all over , I should hate her . 
But no to day I cannot . 
Two years ! Have I not waited six ? It is eternity when one loves and is young . 
They come , said Elena . 
The Californians wore full dress uniform of white and scarlet , Don Jose a blue velvet serape , embroid ered in gold with the arms of Spain . 
As they dismounted Rezanov bowed ceremoni ously to the party on the corridor , and they returned his salutation gravely , suddenly silent . 
He walked directly over to Concha . 
We will go in together , he said . 
It matters nothing what they think . 
I kneel beside no one else . 
And Concha , with the air of leading an honored guest to the banquet , turned and walked with him into the dark little church . 
Why did you not wear a white mantilla ? he whispered . 
I do not like that black thing . 
I am not a bride . 
I knew we should kneel to gether it would have been ridiculous . 
And I could not wear a colored reboso to day . 
I should have liked to fancy we were here for our nuptials . 
Delusions pass but are none the less sweet for that . 
For a moment their brains did swim in the delusion that the priest with his uplifted hands pro nounced benediction upon their nuptials , that proba tion was over and union nigh . 
But Father Abella dismissed all with the same blessing , and they shiv ered as they rose and walked slowly down the church . 
Dona Ignacia took her husband's arm , and mut tering that she feared a chill , hurried the others before her . 
The priests had gone to the sacristy . 
Before they reached the door Rezanov and Concha were alone . 
His hands fell heavily on her shoulders . 
Concha , he said , I shall come back if I live . 
I make no foolish vows , so idle between us . 
There is only one power that can prevent our marriage in this church not later than two years from to day . 
It may be that I shall not come back . 
There would be but one in supportable drop in the bitterness of death , the doubt of your faith in my word and my love . 
Are you too much of a woman to curb your imagination in a long unbroken silence ? I have learned so much that one lesson more is no tax on my faith . 
And I no longer live in a world of little things . 
I promise you that I shall never falter nor doubt . 
Suddenly she heard a suppressed sob , and felt a touch on her skirt . 
She looked round and saw Rosa , kneeling close to the church . 
She was normal in a normal world once more . 
She stooped and patted the hands clasping her skirts . 
Poor Rosa ! she said . 
Poor Rosa ! Over the intense green of islands and hills were long banners of yellow and purple mist , where the wild flowers were lifting their heads . 
The whole quivering bay was as green as the land , but far away the mountains of the east were pink . 
Where there was a patch of verdure on the sand hills the warm golden red of the poppy flaunted in the sun shine . 
All nature was in gala attire like the Cali fornians themselves , as the Juno under full sail sped through The Mouth of the Gulf of the Faral lones . 
Fort San Joaquin saluted with seven guns the Juno returned the compliment with nine . 
The Commandante , his family and guests , stood on the hill above the fort , cheering , waving sombreros and handkerchiefs . 
Wind and tide carried the ship rapidly out the straits . 
Rezanov dropped the cocked hat he had been waving and raised his field glass . 
Concha , as ever , stood a little apart . 
As the ship grew smaller and the company turned toward the Presidio , she advanced to the edge of the bluff . 
But the Juno was received with salvos of artil lery from the fort , and cheered by the entire popu lation of the settlement , crowded on the beach . 
But it was some time before Rezanov could reach the chapel or even exchange salutations with Baran hov . 
After the service Rezanov went up to the hut of the Chief Manager , a habitation that leaked winter and summer , and was equally deficient in light , ven tilation and order . 
He listened with deep satisfaction to the Cham berlain's account of his success with the Californi ans and his glowing pictures of the country , nod ding every few moments with emphatic approval . 
But as the story finished his wonderful eyes were two bubbling springs of humor , and Rezanov , who knew him well , recrossed his legs nervously . 
What is it ? he asked . 
A provision that exceeds my most sanguine hopes . 
The only thing that mitigates my satisfac tion is that there is not a mill in the settlement to grind it . 
Rezanov sprang to his feet with a violent ex clamation , his face very red . 
There was no one whose good opinion he valued as he did that of this brilliant , dissipated , disinterested old genius and he felt like a schoolboy . 
How on earth was I to know all your domestic arrangements ? he said testily . 
God knows I found them limited enough last winter , but it never occurred to me there was any mysterious process involved in converting corn into meal . 
Is it quite useless , then ? Oh , no , we can boil or roast it . 
It will dispose of what teeth we have left , but that will serve the good purpose of reminding us always of your ex cellency's interest in our welfare . 
Give the corn to the natives . 
It is farinaceous at all events . 
The Chief Manager's head nodded with the vigor and rapidity of a mechanical toy . 
It is a God send , a God send . 
If you did no more than that you would have earned our everlasting gratitude . 
It will make us over , give us renewed courage in this cursed ex istence . 
Are you not going to get me out of it ? Rezanov shook his head with a smile . 
Literally you are the whole Company . 
As long as I live here you stay although when I reach St . 
Peters burg I shall see that you receive every possible re ward and honor . 
Baranhov lifted his shoulders to his ears in quiz zical resignation . 
You must make yourself more comfortable , said Rezanov emphatically . 
You are wrong to carry your honesty and enthusiasm to the point of living like the promuschleniki . 
Take enough of their time to build you a comfortable dwelling , and I will send you , on my own account , far more sub stantial rewards than orders and titles . 
Build a big house , for that matter . 
I shall be here more or less when I am not in California . 
And he told Baranhov of his proposed marriage with the daugh ter of Don Jose Arguello . 
The Chief Manager listened to this confidence with an even livelier satisfaction than to the list of the Juno's cargo . 
We shall have California yet ! he cried , his eyes snapping like live coals under the black thatch of wig . 
Ten years from now and we shall have a line of settlements as far south as San Diego . 
The Spanish have no settle ments above San Francisco and are too weak to drive us out . 
They would rage and bluster and do nothing . 
Then quietly push forward , building forts and ships . 
But you have taken hold in the grand manner and will accomplish in ten years what would have taken me fifty . 
Spain cannot come to the rescue while this devil Bonaparte is alive , and he is young , and like yourself a favorite of destiny . 
As to ships , we could soon build enough at Ok hotsk and Petropaulovsky for our purpose . 
For the matter of that , if your gifted tongue impressed the Tsar with the riches of California there would always be war ships on her coast . 
He leaned for ward and caught the strong shoulders above him in hands that looked like a tangle of baked nerves , and shook them vigorously . 
You are a great boy ! he said with a sort of quizzical solemnity . 
, will make two or three reputations by the way . 
Mine will be one , although I'll get nothing else . 
Shelikov is safe but you will have a monument . 
Well , God bless you . 
I am Lieutenant Sookin of the Imperial Navy of Russia , he said in a loud , defiant tone . 
And I am Chamberlain of the Russian Court and Commander of all America , replied Rezanov coolly . 
Now go to your quarters , dress yourself in your uniform , and present your report to me an hour hence . 
Rezanov shrugged his shoulders and went on to his tent . 
There was no furniture in it as yet , and he was obliged to receive Davidov and Khostov standing , but this he preferred . 
They followed him almost immediately , apprehensive and nervous , and before speaking he looked at them for a moment with his strong , penetrating gaze . 
, and they found little fault with life . 
But the profligacy gave a commanding spirit like Rezanov's an advantage which they did not under estimate for a moment and they alternately hated and worshiped him . 
I think you have an inkling of what I am going to ask you to do . 
The Chamberlain brought out the euphemism with the utmost suavity . 
These I shall fit with armaments in Okhotsk . 
I shall place the enterprise I have spoken of in your charge , sailing with you from Sitka five days hence . 
I hope you will do me this great favor , for there is no one of your tried probity and skill to whom I can trust so deli cate an enterprise . 
However , I take the consequences upon my own shoulders . 
You shall not suffer in any way , for your orders are to obey mine while you remain in these waters . 
He paused a moment , and then suddenly smiled into the unresponsive faces before him . 
He held out his hand and shook their limp ones warmly . 
Let me thank you here for all your inestimable services in the past , and particularly during our late hazardous voyages . 
Be sure that whether you suc ceed in this enterprise or not , your rewards shall be no less for what you have already done . 
I shall make it a personal matter with the Tsar . 
You shall have promotion and a substantial increase in pay , besides the orders and Imperial thanks you so richly deserve . 
Lest anything happen to me on my home ward journey , I shall write to St . 
They did not retire , and Rezanov , noting their sudden hesitation and embarrassment , felt an in stant thrill of apprehension . 
What is it ? he demanded . 
What has hap pened ? Life has moved slowly in Sitka during your absence , Excellency , replied Davidov . 
There has been little work done on the Avos . 
It will not be finished for a month or six weeks . 
Then , had the young men been possessed by a not infrequent mood , they would have glowed with a sense of just satisfaction . 
Rezanov felt himself turn so white that he wheeled about and left the tent . 
Winter or summer the journey from Ok hotsk to St . 
He stood staring at the palisades for many min utes . 
If he delayed too long , only by means of an unprece dented run of good fortune would he reach St . 
Petersburg but a month behind his calculations . 
In spite of their idiosyncrasies he could rely upon them implicitly up to a certain point . 
That point involved keeping them in sight until exactly the right moment and leaving nothing to their executive which could be certainly accomplished by himself alone . 
His authority was absolute when enforced in person , but it was a proverb west of the Ural God reigns and the Tsar is far away . 
And here in Sitka it was doubtful if the work on the Avos proceeded at all . 
The result was hardly open to doubt . 
If he left Sitka before the completion of the Avos , Russia would go unavenged for the present . 
Or himself ? Rezanov , sanguine and imaginative as he was , even to the point of creating premises to rhyme with ends , was very honest fundamentally . 
He crossed the clearing and entered the forest . 
The warlike tribes themselves had trodden paths through the dense undergrowth of young trees and ferns . 
Rezanov , despite Baranhov's warning , had tramped the forest many times . 
It was the one thing that reconciled him to Sitka , for there are few woods more beautiful . 
And above , the green of hemlock and spruce was perennially fresh and young , glistening and fra grant . 
Here and there was a small clearing where the clans had erected their ingenious and hideous totem poles , out of place in the ancient beauty of the wood . 
He was occupied with a question to which nature would turn an aloof disdainful ear . 
As well expect a lover without pas sion , a state without corruption . 
He was also in that interval between youth and age when the brain rules if it is ever to rule at all . 
Equality is possible in no relation or condition of life . 
When woman subjugates man the conquered will enjoy a sense of revenge proportionate to the meanness of his state . 
It is possible that had Concha awaited Rezanov in St . 
Moreover , he well knew that the savor would be gone from his happi ness with the woman were the taste of another fail ure acrid in his mouth . 
As he realized that the die was cast , the sanguine ness of his temperament rushed to do battle against apprehension and self accusing . 
After all , he was rarely balked of his way , accustomed to ride down obstacles , to the amiable cooperation of fate . 
He could arrive in Okhotsk late in September or early in October . 
From Yakutsk to Irkutsk the greater part of the travel was by water in any case , and after that the land was flat for the most part and bridges were more numerous . 
The governor of every town in Siberia would be his obsequious servant , the entire resources of the country would be at his disposal . 
He was sound in health again , as resistant against hardships as when he had sailed from Kronstadt . 
And God knew , he thought with a sigh , his will and purpose had never been stronger . 
XXVI Rezanov disembarked from the Juno at Okhotsk during the first days of October . 
He wrote a gay letter to Con cha , giving her the painful story of the naturalist attached to the Golofkin embassy , Dr . 
Redovsky , who had remained in the East animated by the same scientific enthusiasm as that of his colleague , the good Langsdorff parted some time since from his too exacting master . 
Rezanov had written Concha many letters during his detention in Sitka , and left them with Baranhov to send at the first opportun ity . 
But Langsdorff , although punctiliously acknowledging the favors , never quite forgave the indifference of a mere am bassador and chamberlain , rejoicing in the dignity of an honorary membership in the St . 
Petersburg Academy of Sciences , to the supreme division of natural history . 
He had changed his origi nal plan and dispatched Davidov on the Avos from Oonalaska . 
Guns and provisions awaited the Juno at Okhotsk , and in less than a week after his ar rival Rezanov was able to start on his long journey with a mind at rest . 
But on the eighth day the rains began a fine steady mist , then in torrents as endless . 
Rezanov managed to retain his seat , and pulled the frightened , plunging beast to its feet while his Cos sacks were still shouting their consternation . 
He rode on the next day in a burning fever . 
Jon , minding Langsdorff's instruc tions , doctored him not without difficulty from the medicine chest , and for a day or two the fever seemed broken . 
But Jon , sick with apprehension , implored him to turn back . 
He might as well have implored the sky to turn blue . 
How do you think men accomplish things in this world ? asked Rezanov angrily . 
By turning back and going to bed every time they have a mi graine ? No , Excellency , said the man humbly . 
Very well , Excellency , said Jon , with a sigh . 
The next day he and one of the Cossack guard caught him as he fell from his horse unconscious . 
A Yakhut hut , miserable as it was , offered in the persistent downpour a better shelter than the tent . 
They carried him into it , and his bedding at least was almost as luxurious as had he been in St . 
The fever ebbed , and in a few days Rezanov was able to continue the journey by shorter stages , although heavy with an intolerable lassitude . 
But his will sustained him until he reached Yakutsk , not at the end of twenty two days , but of thirty three . 
The weather was now intensely cold , the river winding , the delays many , but there were adequate stations for the benefit and accommodation of trav elers every hundred versts or less . 
He vowed he was well again , abandoned his comfortable sledge , and pushed on in the common manner . 
The Government and Company agents fawned upon him , the best of horses and beds , food and wine , were eagerly placed at the disposal of the favorite of the Tsar . 
Rezanov's spirit , always of the finest temper , suffered no eclipse for many days . 
He reveled in the belief that his sorely tried body was regenerating its old vigors . 
The hills were very high and very steep , the roads but a name in summer . 
The rest of the journey , but one hundred and ninety six versts , must be made by land . 
Rezanov admit ted that he was too weary to ride , and refused to travel in the post carriage . 
On the third day the servant managed to hire a telega from a superior farmer and they started immediately , the heavy lug gage having been consigned to a merchant vessel at Yakutsk . 
Rezanov stood the telega exactly half a day . 
Rezanov , in a fever which he at tributed to rage , dismissed the telega at a village and awaited the coming of Jon , who followed on horseback with the personal luggage . 
It was a village of wooden houses built in the Russian fashion , and inhabited by a dignified tribe wearing long white garments bordered with fur . 
For three weeks longer Rezanov lay in the pal ace of the Governor . 
But here he had the best of nursing and attendance , rallied finally and insisted upon continu ing his journey . 
The prospect of continuing his journey and the bustle of preparation raised the spirits of the in valid and gave him a fictitious energy . 
He had fought depression and despair in all his conscious moments , never admitted that the devastation in his body was mortal . 
All his life he had excited interest wherever he went , but never to such a degree as on that last journey when he made his desperate fight for life and happiness . 
XXVII The snow rarely falls in Krasnoiarsk . 
It is a little oasis in the great winter desert of Siberia . 
Reza nov , his face turned to the window , could see the red banks on the opposite side of the river . 
Rezanov's mind was clear in those last moments , but something of the serenity and the selfishness of death had already descended upon him . 
He heard with indifference the sobs of Jon , crouched at the foot of his bed . 
Tears and regrets were a part of the general futility of life , insignificant enough at the grand threshold of death . 
None realized better than he the paucity of initiative and executive among the characteristics of the Slav . 
What mattered it ? He had had glimpses more than once of the apparently illogical sequence of life , the vanity of human effort , the wanton cruelty of Na ture . 
Man was the helpless victim of Nature , a calf in a tiger's paws . 
If she overlooked him , or swept him contemptuously into the class of her favorites , well and good otherwise he was her sport , the plaything of her idler mo ments . 
The misanthrope was the supreme failure of life because he had not the in telligence to realize , or could not reconcile himself to , the incomplete condition of human nature . 
Man was made up of little qualities , and aspirations for great ones . 
How brief it had been , that last cry of mortality , with its accompaniment of furious wonder at his unseemly and senseless cutting off . 
In the adjustment and readjustment of political and natural forces the world ambled on philosophically , fulfilling its inevitable destiny . 
To him that fair land was empty and purposeless save for one figure , and even of her he thought with the terrible calm of dissolution . 
His eyes expanded , his nostrils quivered . 
As he sank down in the embrace of that final delusion , his unconquerably sanguine spirit flared high before a vision of eternal and unthink able happiness . 
So died Rezanov and with him the hope of Rus sians and the hindrance of Americans in the west and the mortal happiness and earthly dross of the saintliest of California's women . 
I I Arillaga Arrillaga ride of rid of Arillaga Arrillaga Arillaga Arrillaga Are Are Arrilaga Arrillaga Nakasaki Nagasaki refuse refuse dumfounded dumbfounded Moragas Moraga twice twice said said he said phasis . 
indicates that the italics were NOT used as emphasis , but merely as indicators of SOME of the non English words , and were eventually stripped of their italicism for easier reading . 
The first words of each chapter were also capitalized on paper , as least most of them . 
These have also been uncapitalized . 
