THE HOUSE OF THE SEVEN GABLES by NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE Table of Contents INTRODUCTORY NOTE AUTHOR'S PREFACE I. THE OLD PYNCHEON FAMILY II . 
THE LITTLE SHOP WINDOW III . 
A DAY BEHIND THE COUNTER V. MAY AND NOVEMBER VI . 
THE PYNCHEON OF TO DAY IX . 
CLIFFORD AND PHOEBE X. THE PYNCHEON GARDEN XI . 
THE SCOWL AND SMILE XVI . 
THE FLIGHT OF TWO OWLS XVIII . 
THE FLOWER OF EDEN XXI . 
THE HOUSE OF THE SEVEN GABLES . 
IN September of the year during the February of which Hawthorne had completed The Scarlet Letter , he began The House of the Seven Gables . 
But by vigorous application he was able to complete the new work about the middle of the January following . 
, the great grandfather of Nathaniel Hawthorne , was a magistrate at Salem in the latter part of the seventeenth century , and officiated at the famous trials for witchcraft held there . 
, a reminiscence of The author's family , to the following effect . 
But at his death English left daughters , one of whom is said to have married the son of Justice John Hathorne , whom English had declared he would never forgive . 
It is scarcely necessary to point out how clearly this foreshadows the final union of those hereditary foes , the Pyncheons and Maules , through the marriage of Phoebe and Holgrave . 
There are one or two other points which indicate Hawthorne's method of basing his compositions , the result in the main of pure invention , on the solid ground of particular facts . 
Allusion is made , in the first chapter of the Seven Gables , to a grant of lands in Waldo County , Maine , owned by the Pyncheon family . 
An incident of much greater importance in the story is the supposed murder of one of the Pyncheons by his nephew , to whom we are introduced as Clifford Pyncheon . 
In all probability Hawthorne connected with this , in his mind , the murder of Mr. White , a wealthy gentleman of Salem , killed by a man whom his nephew had hired . 
This took place a few years after Hawthorne's gradation from college , and was one of the celebrated cases of the day , Daniel Webster taking part prominently in the trial . 
and building a house of materials long in use for constructing castles in the air . 
Here , as elsewhere , he exercised the liberty of a creative mind to heighten the probability of his pictures without confining himself to a literal description of something he had seen . 
A letter written by Mrs. Hawthorne , at this time , to a member of her family , gives incidentally a glimpse of the scene , which may properly find a place here . 
But you have not this lovely lake , nor , I suppose , the delicate purple mist which folds these slumbering mountains in airy veils . 
The pleasantness and peace of his surroundings and of his modest home , in Lenox , may be taken into account as harmonizing with the mellow serenity of the romance then produced . 
But I feel that portions of it are as good as anything I can hope to write , and the publisher speaks encouragingly of its success . 
He had asked her if she would not like him to become an author and have his books read in England . 
The latter form of composition is presumed to aim at a very minute fidelity , not merely to the possible , but to the probable and ordinary course of man's experience . 
If he think fit , also , he may so manage his atmospherical medium as to bring out or mellow the lights and deepen and enrich the shadows of the picture . 
He can hardly be said , however , to commit a literary crime even if he disregard this caution . 
In the present work , the author has proposed to himself but with what success , fortunately , it is not for him to judge to keep undeviatingly within his immunities . 
The point of view in which this tale comes under the Romantic definition lies in the attempt to connect a bygone time with the very present that is flitting away from us . 
Many writers lay very great stress upon some definite moral purpose , at which they profess to aim their works . 
In good faith , however , he is not sufficiently imaginative to flatter himself with the slightest hope of this kind . 
When romances do really teach anything , or produce any effective operation , it is usually through a far more subtile process than the ostensible one . 
The reader may perhaps choose to assign an actual locality to the imaginary events of this narrative . 
If permitted by the historical connection , which , though slight , was essential to his plan , the author would very willingly have avoided anything of this nature . 
The House of the Seven Gables , antique as it now looks , was not the first habitation erected by civilized man on precisely the same spot of ground . 
Pyncheon Street formerly bore the humbler appellation of Maule's Lane , from the name of the original occupant of the soil , before whose cottage door it was a cow path . 
Colonel Pyncheon , the claimant , as we gather from whatever traits of him are preserved , was characterized by an iron energy of purpose . 
No written record of this dispute is known to be in existence . 
Our acquaintance with the whole subject is derived chiefly from tradition . 
The mode of his death , too , affects the mind differently , in our day , from what it did a century and a half ago . 
Old Matthew Maule , in a word , was executed for the crime of witchcraft . 
It was well known that the victim had recognized the bitterness of personal enmity in his persecutor's conduct towards him , and that he declared himself hunted to death for his spoil . 
Had he been told of a bad air , it might have moved him somewhat but he was ready to encounter an evil spirit on his own ground . 
On the score of delicacy , or any scrupulousness which a finer sensibility might have taught him , the Colonel , like most of his breed and generation , was impenetrable . 
Even such we find it now and any old woman of the neighborhood will certify that it is productive of intestinal mischief to those who quench their thirst there . 
Thus the great house was built . 
A ceremony of consecration , festive as well as religious , was now to be performed . 
A prayer and discourse from the Rev . 
The carcass of a deer , shot within twenty miles , had supplied material for the vast circumference of a pasty . 
A codfish of sixty pounds , caught in the bay , had been dissolved into the rich liquid of a chowder . 
The mere smell of such festivity , making its way to everybody's nostrils , was at once an invitation and an appetite . 
All , as they approached , looked upward at the imposing edifice , which was henceforth to assume its rank among the habitations of mankind . 
There it rose , a little withdrawn from the line of the street , but in pride , not modesty . 
On every side the seven gables pointed sharply towards the sky , and presented the aspect of a whole sisterhood of edifices , breathing through the spiracles of one great chimney . 
Carved globes of wood were affixed under the jutting stories . 
Little spiral rods of iron beautified each of the seven peaks . 
Thither , too , thronged the plebeian classes as freely as their betters , and in larger number . 
One inauspicious circumstance there was , which awakened a hardly concealed displeasure in the breasts of a few of the more punctilious visitors . 
He was as yet invisible the most favored of the guests had not beheld him . 
This sluggishness on Colonel Pyncheon's part became still more unaccountable , when the second dignitary of the province made his appearance , and found no more ceremonious a reception . 
I will take the matter into my own hands . 
Then , looking round , with a smile , to the spectators , he awaited a response . 
As none came , however , he knocked again , but with the same unsatisfactory result as at first . 
Be that as it might , it seemed to produce no awakening effect on Colonel Pyncheon . 
Strange , forsooth ! very strange ! cried the lieutenant governor , whose smile was changed to a frown . 
But seeing that our host sets us the good example of forgetting ceremony , I shall likewise throw it aside , and make free to intrude on his privacy . 
A shadow of awe and half fearful anticipation nobody knew wherefore , nor of what had all at once fallen over the company . 
They thronged , however , to the now open door , pressing the lieutenant governor , in the eagerness of their curiosity , into the room in advance of them . 
Letters , parchments , and blank sheets of paper were on the table before him . 
It was too late to give assistance . 
Certain it is , however , that there was a great consultation and dispute of doctors over the dead body . 
The rank , wealth , and eminent character of the deceased must have insured the strictest scrutiny into every ambiguous circumstance . 
In Colonel Pyncheon's funeral sermon , which was printed , and is still extant , the Rev . 
Mr. Higginson enumerates , among the many felicities of his distinguished parishioner's earthly career , the happy seasonableness of his death . 
The family of Colonel Pyncheon , at the epoch of his death , seemed destined to as fortunate a permanence as can anywise consist with the inherent instability of human affairs . 
It might fairly be anticipated that the progress of time would rather increase and ripen their prosperity , than wear away and destroy it . 
So far as the prospective territory was concerned , he unquestionably died too soon . 
Some connecting link had slipped out of the evidence , and could not anywhere be found . 
But , in course of time , the territory was partly regranted to more favored individuals , and partly cleared and occupied by actual settlers . 
This impalpable claim , therefore , resulted in nothing more solid than to cherish , from generation to generation , an absurd delusion of family importance , which all along characterized the Pyncheons . 
It caused the poorest member of the race to feel as if he inherited a kind of nobility , and might yet come into the possession of princely wealth to support it . 
In the better specimens of the breed , this peculiarity threw an ideal grace over the hard material of human life , without stealing away any truly valuable quality . 
Had we the secret of that mirror , we would gladly sit down before it , and transfer its revelations to our page . 
Certain circumstances attending this fatal occurrence had brought the deed irresistibly home to a nephew of the deceased Pyncheon . 
This sad affair had chanced about thirty years before the action of our story commences . 
that this long buried man was likely , for some reason or other , to be summoned forth from his living tomb . 
It is essential to say a few words respecting the victim of this now almost forgotten murder . 
He was an old bachelor , and possessed of great wealth , in addition to the house and real estate which constituted what remained of the ancient Pyncheon property . 
But there is no one thing which men so rarely do , whatever the provocation or inducement , as to bequeath patrimonial property away from their own blood . 
In all the Pyncheons , this feeling had the energy of disease . 
This was a nephew , the cousin of the miserable young man who had been convicted of the uncle's murder . 
In fact , he showed more of the Pyncheon quality , and had won higher eminence in the world , than any of his race since the time of the original Puritan . 
Later , he had engaged in politics , and served a part of two terms in Congress , besides making a considerable figure in both branches of the State legislature . 
Judge Pyncheon was unquestionably an honor to his race . 
There were few of the Pyncheons left to sun themselves in the glow of the Judge's prosperity . 
In respect to natural increase , the breed had not thriven it appeared rather to be dying out . 
His widow had recently taken another husband . 
As for Matthew Maule's posterity , it was supposed now to be extinct . 
For a very long period after the witchcraft delusion , however , the Maules had continued to inhabit the town where their progenitor had suffered so unjust a death . 
Nor would it have been singular had they ceased to remember that the House of the Seven Gables was resting its heavy framework on a foundation that was rightfully their own . 
Thus the Maules , at all events , kept their resentments within their own breasts . 
For thirty years past , neither town record , nor gravestone , nor the directory , nor the knowledge or memory of man , bore any trace of Matthew Maule's descendants . 
His blood might possibly exist elsewhere here , where its lowly current could be traced so far back , it had ceased to keep an onward course . 
It was this indefinable peculiarity , perhaps , that , by insulating them from human aid , kept them always so unfortunate in life . 
The mantle , or rather the ragged cloak , of old Matthew Maule had fallen upon his children . 
They were half believed to inherit mysterious attributes the family eye was said to possess strange power . 
Among other good for nothing properties and privileges , one was especially assigned them , that of exercising an influence over people's dreams . 
Modern psychology , it may be , will endeavor to reduce these alleged necromancies within a system , instead of rejecting them as altogether fabulous . 
A descriptive paragraph or two , treating of the seven gabled mansion in its more recent aspect , will bring this preliminary chapter to a close . 
It was itself like a great human heart , with a life of its own , and full of rich and sombre reminiscences . 
It gave beauty to the old edifice , and seemed to make it a part of nature . 
The street having been widened about forty years ago , the front gable was now precisely on a line with it . 
They were called Alice's Posies . 
This same shop door had been a subject of No slight mortification to the present occupant of the august Pyncheon House , as well as to some of her predecessors . 
It was the custom of the time , indeed , for merchants to store their goods and transact business in their own dwellings . 
Beyond all question , he had the blood of a petty huckster in his veins , through whatever channel it may have found its way there . 
Immediately on his death , the shop door had been locked , bolted , and barred , and , down to the period of our story , had probably never once been opened . 
The old counter , shelves , and other fixtures of the little shop remained just as he had left them . 
From the look of unutterable woe upon his face , it appeared to be his doom to spend eternity in a vain effort to make his accounts balance . 
And now in a very humble way , as will be seen we proceed to open our narrative . 
The Old Maid was alone in the old house . 
Inaudible , consequently , were poor Miss Hepzibah's gusty sighs . 
Inaudible the creaking joints of her stiffened knees , as she knelt down by the bedside . 
Not with such fervor prays the torpid recluse , looking forward to the cold , sunless , stagnant calm of a day that is to be like innumerable yesterdays . 
The maiden lady's devotions are concluded . 
Will she now issue forth over the threshold of our story ? Not yet , by many moments . 
There is a rustling of stiff silks a tread of backward and forward footsteps to and fro across the chamber . 
It was once our good fortune to see this picture . 
Of the possessor of such features we shall have a right to ask nothing , except that he would take the rude world easily , and make himself happy in it . 
And yet , her undying faith and trust , her freshremembrance , and continual devotedness towards the original of that miniature , have been the only substance for her heart to feed upon . 
She seems to have put aside the miniature , and is standing again before the toilet glass . 
There are tears to be wiped off . 
The sun , meanwhile , if not already above the horizon , was ascending nearer and nearer to its verge . 
The reflected radiance served to show , pretty distinctly , the aspect and arrangement of the room which Hepzibah entered , after descending the stairs . 
As for ornamental articles of furniture , we recollect but two , if such they may be called . 
The latter object , being more successfully depicted by the artist , stood out in far greater prominence than the sacred volume . 
But it was no such thing . 
We must linger a moment on this unfortunate expression of poor Hepzibah's brow . 
How miserably cross I look ! she must often have whispered to herself and ultimately have fancied herself so , by a sense of inevitable doom . 
But her heart never frowned . 
It was naturally tender , sensitive , and full of little tremors and palpitations all of which weaknesses it retained , while her visage was growing so perversely stern , and even fierce . 
Nor had Hepzibah ever any hardihood , except what came from the very warmest nook in her affections . 
All this time , however , we are loitering faintheartedly on the threshold of our story . 
In very truth , we have an invincible reluctance to disclose what Miss Hepzibah Pyncheon was about to do . 
Such had been the state and condition of the little shop in old Hepzibah's childhood , when she and her brother used to play at hide and seek in its forsaken precincts . 
So it had remained , until within a few days past . 
But Now , though the shop window was still closely curtained from the public gaze , a remarkable change had taken place in its interior . 
The counter , shelves , and floor had all been scoured , and the latter was overstrewn with fresh blue sand . 
The brown scales , too , had evidently undergone rigid discipline , in an unavailing effort to rub off the rust , which , alas ! had eaten through and through their substance . 
Neither was the little old shop any longer empty of merchantable goods . 
There was likewise a square box of pine wood , full of soap in bars also , another of the same size , in which were tallow candles , ten to the pound . 
Jim Crow , moreover , was seen executing his world renowned dance , in gingerbread . 
Passing through an intervening passage , she opened a door that communicated with the shop , just now so elaborately described . 
The haste , and , as it were , the galvanic impulse of the movement , were really quite startling . 
In the aspect of this dark arrayed , pale faced , ladylike old figure there was a deeply tragic character that contrasted irreconcilably with the ludicrous pettiness of her employment . 
It was the final throe of what called itself old gentility . 
Poverty , treading closely at her heels for a lifetime , has come up with her at last . 
In this republican country , amid the fluctuating waves of our social life , somebody is always at the drowning point . 
Now , in that very house , to be the hucksteress of a cent shop . 
This business of setting up a petty shop is almost the only resource of women , in circumstances at all similar to those of our unfortunate recluse . 
Besides , in our day , the very A B C has become a science greatly too abstruse to be any longer taught by pointing a pin from letter to letter . 
A modern child could teach old Hepzibah more than old Hepzibah could teach the child . 
She might have held back a little longer but another circumstance , not yet hinted at , had somewhat hastened her decision . 
Her humble preparations , therefore , were duly made , and the enterprise was now to be commenced . 
It was overpoweringly ridiculous , we must honestly confess it , the deportment of the maiden lady while setting her shop in order for the public eye . 
She stole on tiptoe to the window , as cautiously as if she conceived some bloody minded villain to be watching behind the elm tree , with intent to take her life . 
But Hepzibah had no such flattering dream . 
The inevitable moment was not much longer to be delayed . 
The town appeared to be waking up . 
A baker's cart had already rattled through the street , chasing away the latest vestige of night's sanctity with the jingle jangle of its dissonant bells . 
A milkman was distributing the contents of his cans from door to door and the harsh peal of a fisherman's conch shell was heard far off , around the corner . 
None of these tokens escaped Hepzibah's notice . 
To delay longer would be only to lengthen out her misery . 
This last act Hepzibah now performed , letting the bar fall with what smote upon her excited nerves as a most astounding clatter . 
It is redeemed from insignificance only by the contraction of her eyebrows into a near sighted scowl . 
Nevertheless , if we look through all the heroic fortunes of mankind , we shall find this same entanglement of something mean and trivial with whatever is noblest in joy or sorrow . 
Life is made up of marble and mud . 
What is called poetic insight is the gift of discerning , in this sphere of strangely mingled elements , the beauty and the majesty which are compelled to assume a garb so sordid . 
She was suddenly startled by the tinkling alarum high , sharp , and irregular of a little bell . 
The maiden lady arose upon her feet , as pale as a ghost at cock crow for she was an enslaved spirit , and this the talisman to which she owed obedience . 
at once set every nerve of her body in responsive and tumultuous vibration . 
Any ordinary customer , indeed , would have turned his back and fled . 
She wished them all well , but wished , too , that she herself were done with them , and in her quiet grave . 
The applicant , by this time , stood within the doorway . 
Coming freshly , as he did , out of the morning light , he appeared to have brought some of its cheery influences into the shop along with him . 
These qualities were not only perceptible , physically , in his make and motions , but made themselves felt almost immediately in his character . 
Oak Hall might have supplied his entire equipment . 
He was chiefly marked as a gentleman if such , indeed , he made any claim to be by the rather remarkable whiteness and nicety of his clean linen . 
He met the scowl of old Hepzibah without apparent alarm , as having heretofore encountered it and found it harmless . 
I merely look in to offer my best wishes , and to ask if I can assist you any further in your preparations . 
I find nothing so singular in life , as that everything appears to lose its substance the instant one actually grapples with it . 
So it will be with what you think so terrible . 
But I am a woman ! said Hepzibah piteously . 
I was going to say , a lady , but I consider that as past . 
Well no matter if it be past ! answered the artist , a strange gleam of half hidden sarcasm flashing through the kindliness of his manner . 
Let it go You are the better without it . 
I speak frankly , my dear Miss Pyncheon ! for are we not friends ? I look upon this as one of the fortunate days of your life . 
It ends an epoch and begins one . 
You are a man , a young man , and brought up , I suppose , as almost everybody is nowadays , with a view to seeking your fortune . 
But I was born a lady . 
and have always lived one no matter in what narrowness of means , always a lady . 
These names of gentleman and lady had a meaning , in the past history of the world , and conferred privileges , desirable or otherwise , on those entitled to bear them . 
I shall never understand them neither do I wish it . 
Ah ! no , no ! said Hepzibah , not displeased at this allusion to the sombre dignity of an inherited curse . 
If old Maule's ghost , or a descendant of his , could see me behind the counter to day . 
he would call it the fulfillment of his worst wishes . 
But I thank you for your kindness , Mr. Holgrave , and will do my utmost to be a good shop keeper . 
Pray do said Holgrave , and let me have the pleasure of being your first customer . 
I am about taking a walk to the seashore , before going to my rooms , where I misuse Heaven's blessed sunshine by tracing out human features through its agency . 
A few of those biscuits , dipt in sea water , will be just what I need for breakfast . 
She put the biscuits into his hand , but rejected the compensation . 
Soon , however , they had subsided nearly to their former dead level . 
With a beating heart , she listened to the footsteps of early passengers , which now began to be frequent along the street . 
Once or twice they seemed to linger these strangers , or neighbors , as the case might be , were looking at the display of toys and petty commodities in Hepzibah's shop window . 
Anon , there was an encounter , just at the door step , betwixt two laboring men , as their rough voices denoted them to be . 
After some slight talk about their own affairs , one of them chanced to notice the shop window , and directed the other's attention to it . 
I don't call it a very good stand . 
There's another shop just round the corner . 
Make it go ! cried Dixey , with a most contemptuous expression , as if the very idea were impossible to be conceived . 
People can't stand it , I tell you ! She scowls dreadfully , reason or none , out of pure ugliness of temper . 
Well , that's not so much matter , remarked the other man . 
These sour tempered folks are mostly handy at business , and know pretty well what they are about . 
But , as you say , I don't think she'll do much . 
This business of keeping cent shops is overdone , like all other kinds of trade , handicraft , and bodily labor . 
I know it , to my cost ! My wife kept a cent shop three months , and lost five dollars on her outlay . 
Poor business ! responded Dixey , in a tone as if he were shaking his head , poor business . 
A glance a passing word or two a coarse laugh and she was doubtless forgotten before they turned the corner . 
They cared nothing for her dignity , and just as little for her degradation . 
Then , also , the augury of ill success , uttered from the sure wisdom of experience , fell upon her half dead hope like a clod into a grave . 
Some malevolent spirit , doing his utmost to drive Hepzibah mad , unrolled before her imagination a kind of panorama , representing the great thoroughfare of a city all astir with customers . 
The old gentlewoman's heart seemed to be attached to the same steel spring , for it went through a series of sharp jerks , in unison with the sound . 
The door was thrust open , although no human form was perceptible on the other side of the half window . 
Heaven help me ! she groaned mentally . 
A book and a small slate , under his arm , indicated that he was on his way to school . 
So Hepzibah put forth her lank arm , and , taking the effigy from the shop window , delivered it to her first customer . 
No matter for the cent . 
You are welcome to Jim Crow . 
The child , staring with round eyes at this instance of liberality , wholly unprecedented in his large experience of cent shops , took the man of gingerbread , and quitted the premises . 
than Jim Crow's head was in his mouth . 
The crumbs and discoloration of the cannibal feast , as yet hardly consummated , were exceedingly visible about his mouth . 
Looking somewhat chagrined , he put the coin into Hepzibah's hand , and departed , sending the second Jim Crow in quest of the former one . 
The new shop keeper dropped the first solid result of her commercial enterprise into the till . 
It was done ! The sordid stain of that copper coin could never be washed away from her palm . 
The little schoolboy , aided by the impish figure of the negro dancer , had wrought an irreparable ruin . 
The structure of ancient aristocracy had been demolished by him , even as if his childish gripe had torn down the seven gabled mansion . 
She felt the novelty of her position , indeed , but no longer with disturbance or affright . 
Now and then , there came a thrill of almost youthful enjoyment . 
It was the invigorating breath of a fresh outward atmosphere , after the long torpor and monotonous seclusion of her life . 
Her introductory day of shop keeping did not run on , however , without many and serious interruptions of this mood of cheerful vigor . 
As a general rule , Providence seldom vouchsafes to mortals any more than just that degree of encouragement which suffices to keep them at a reasonably full exertion of their powers . 
In the case of our old gentlewoman , after the excitement of new effort had subsided , the despondency of her whole life threatened , ever and anon , to return . 
But , always , the envious cloud strives to gather again across the streak of celestial azure . 
She wanted a few pounds of flour , and offered the money , which the decayed gentlewoman silently rejected , and gave the poor soul better measure than if she had taken it . 
It was impressed on Hepzibah's mind that this was the husband of the care wrinkled woman . 
Three of them left the door open , and the other two pulled it so spitefully in going out that the little bell played the very deuce with Hepzibah's nerves . 
You had better shut up shop at once . 
They evidently considered themselves not merely her equals , but her patrons and superiors . 
On the other hand , nothing tortured her more intolerably than when this recognition was too prominently expressed . 
In this particular case , however mechanical and innocuous it might be at other times , Hepzibah's contortion of brow served her in good stead . 
I never was so frightened in my life ! said the curious customer , in describing the incident to one of her acquaintances . 
May God forgive me ! said she . 
Doubtless , God did forgive her . 
seemed to scrutinize , with especial interest , the dilapidated and rusty visaged House of the Seven Gables . 
He himself , in a very different style , was as well worth looking at as the house . 
The artist would have found it desirable to study his face , and prove its capacity for varied expression to darken it with a frown , to kindle it up with a smile . 
While the elderly gentleman stood looking at the Pyncheon House , both the frown and the smile passed successively over his countenance . 
At first it seemed not to please him , nay , to cause him exceeding displeasure , and yet , the very next moment , he smiled . 
He bowed , with a happy mixture of dignity and courteous kindliness , and pursued his way . 
What a grand appetite had this small urchin ! Two Jim Crows immediately after breakfast ! and now an elephant , as a preliminary whet before dinner . 
By the time this latter purchase was completed , the elderly gentleman had resumed his way , and turned the street corner . 
Take it as you like , Cousin Jaffrey . 
At length she paused before the portrait of the stern old Puritan , her ancestor , and the founder of the house . 
Such an effect may occasionally be observed in pictures of antique date . 
would never dream of presenting to a patron as his own characteristic expression , but which , nevertheless , we at once recognize as reflecting the unlovely truth of a human soul . 
While gazing at the portrait , Hepzibah trembled under its eye . 
Her hereditary reverence made her afraid to judge the character of the original so harshly as a perception of the truth compelled her to do . 
This is the very man ! murmured she to herself . 
She had dwelt too much alone , too long in the Pyncheon House , until her very brain was impregnated with the dry rot of its timbers . 
She needed a walk along the noonday street to keep her sane . 
Malbone's miniature , though from the same original , was far inferior to Hepzibah's air drawn picture , at which affection and sorrowful remembrance wrought together . 
Within that circle , he claimed the same sort of privilege , and probably felt as much warmth of interest , as a clergyman does in the range of his parishioners . 
Hepzibah had a regard for him , because his name was ancient in the town and had formerly been respectable . 
His hat had relation to no other part of his dress , and but very little to the head that wore it . 
So , you have really begun trade , said he , really begun trade ! Well , I'm glad to see it . 
Young people should never live idle in the world , nor old ones neither , unless when the rheumatize gets hold of them . 
It has given me warning already and in two or three years longer , I shall think of putting aside business and retiring to my farm . 
Had he been an old woman , she might probably have repelled the freedom , which she now took in good part . 
It is time for me to begin work , indeed ! Or , to speak the truth , I have just begun when I ought to be giving it up . 
Oh , never say that , Miss Hepzibah ! answered the old man . 
You are a young woman yet . 
In my young days , the great man of the town was commonly called King and his wife , not Queen to be sure , but Lady . 
Nowadays , a man would not dare to be called King and if he feels himself a little above common folks , he only stoops so much the lower to them . 
And that's rather remarkable in a Pyncheon for , begging your pardon , Miss Hepzibah , they never had the name of being an easy and agreeable set of folks . 
There was no getting close to them . 
I ought to say , however , that , if I choose to earn bread for myself , it is not Judge Pyncheon's fault . 
And it's no bad place , either , that farm of mine ! cried the old man cheerily , as if there were something positively delightful in the prospect . 
No bad place is the great brick farm house , especially for them that will find a good many old cronies there , as will be my case . 
But you , you're a young woman yet , you never need go there ! Something still better will turn up for you . 
Thus , all the while Hepzibah was perfecting the scheme of her little shop , she had cherished an unacknowledged idea that some harlequin trick of fortune would intervene in her favor . 
But , for reasons the most imperative , she could not yield to his request . 
But either he knew nothing of her castles in the air , as how should he ? or else her earnest scowl disturbed his recollection , as it might a more courageous man's . 
Instead of pursuing any weightier topic , Uncle Venner was pleased to favor Hepzibah with some sage counsel in her shop keeping capacity . 
Give no credit ! these were some of his goldenmxims , Never take paper money . 
Recovering himself , however , he bent forward , and , with a good deal of feeling in his ancient visage , beckoned her nearer to him . 
When do you expect him home ? whispered he . 
Whom do you mean ? asked Hepzibah , turning pale . 
Ah ? you don't love to talk about it , said Uncle Venner . 
Well , well ! we'll say no more , though there's word of it all over town . 
It is like death , without death's quiet privilege , its freedom from mortal care . 
Worst of all , when the actual duties are comprised in such petty details as now vexed the brooding soul of the old gentlewoman . 
As the animosity of fate would have it , there was a great influx of custom in the course of the afternoon . 
After all her painful traffic , the whole proceeds were perhaps half a dozen coppers , and a questionable ninepence which ultimately proved to be copper likewise . 
At this price , or at whatever price , she rejoiced that the day had reached its end . 
She then muffled the bell in an unfinished stocking , and put up the oaken bar across the door . 
During the latter process , an omnibus came to a stand still under the branches of the elm tree . 
Hepzibah's heart was in her mouth . 
now ? Somebody , at all events , was passing from the farthest interior of the omnibus towards its entrance . 
She rewarded her cavalier with a smile , the cheery glow of which was seen reflected on his own face as he reentered the vehicle . 
First giving a sharp rap of the old iron knocker , he left his passenger and her luggage at the door step , and departed . 
Who can it be ? thought Hepzibah , who had been screwing her visual organs into the acutest focus of which they were capable . 
The girl must have mistaken the house . 
It was a face to which almost any door would have opened of its own accord . 
It was no less evidently proper that the door should swing open to admit her . 
Can it be Phoebe ? questioned she within herself . 
In her own circle , it was regarded as by no means improper for kinsfolk to visit one another without invitation , or preliminary and ceremonious warning . 
Yet , in consideration of Miss Hepzibah's recluse way of life , a letter had actually been written and despatched , conveying information of Phoebe's projected visit . 
No she can stay only one night , said Hepzibah , unbolting the door . 
The morning light , however , soon stole into the aperture at the foot of the bed , betwixt those faded curtains . 
When Phoebe was quite dressed , she peeped out of the window , and saw a rosebush in the garden . 
Hastening down the creaking and carpetless staircase , she found her way into the garden , gathered some of the most perfect of the roses , and brought them to her chamber . 
Little Phoebe was one of those persons who possess , as their exclusive patrimony , the gift of practical arrangement . 
What was precisely Phoebe's process we find it impossible to say . 
There was still another peculiarity of this inscrutable charm . 
Her dreams of the past night , being such cheerful ones , had exorcised the gloom , and now haunted the chamber in its stead . 
After arranging matters to her satisfaction , Phoebe emerged from her chamber , with a purpose to descend again into the garden . 
by their uneducated entanglement and confusion . 
Human finger was hardly known to have touched its chords since the days of Alice Pyncheon , who had learned the sweet accomplishment of melody in Europe . 
Cousin Phoebe , said she , at last , I really can't see my way clear to keep you with me . 
which made it desirable for Phoebe to establish herself in another home . 
To Hepzibah's blunt observation , therefore , Phoebe replied as frankly , and more cheerfully . 
Dear cousin , I cannot tell how it will be , said she . 
But I really think we may suit one another much better than you suppose . 
You are a nice girl , I see it plainly , continued Hepzibah and it is not any question as to that point which makes me hesitate . 
But , Phoebe , this house of mine is but a melancholy place for a young person to be in . 
It lets in the wind and rain , and the Snow , too , in the garret and upper chambers , in winter time , but it never lets in the sunshine . 
You will find me a cheerful little , body answered Phoebe , smiling , and yet with a kind of gentle dignity . 
and I mean to earn my bread . 
You know I have not been brought up a Pyncheon . 
A girl learns many things in a New England village . 
Those cheeks would not be so rosy after a month or two . 
There is the garden , the flowers to be taken care of , observed Phoebe . 
I should keep myself healthy with exercise in the open air . 
Do you mean Judge Pyncheon ? asked Phoebe in surprise . 
Judge Pyncheon ! answered her cousin angrily . 
He will hardly cross the threshold while I live ! No , no ! But , Phoebe , you shall see the face of him I speak of . 
She went in quest of the miniature already described , and returned with it in her hand . 
Giving it to Phoebe , she watched her features narrowly , and with a certain jealousy as to the mode in which the girl would show herself affected by the picture . 
How do you like the face ? asked Hepzibah . 
It is handsome ! it is very beautiful ! said Phoebe admiringly . 
It is as sweet a face as a man's can be , or ought to be . 
It has something of a child's expression , and yet not childish , only one feels so very kindly towards him ! He ought never to suffer anything . 
One would bear much for the sake of sparing him toil or sorrow . 
Who is it , Cousin Hepzibah ? Did you never hear , whispered her cousin , bending towards her , of Clifford Pyncheon ? Never . 
I thought there were no Pyncheons left , except yourself and our cousin Jaffrey , answered Phoebe . 
And yet I seem to have heard the name of Clifford Pyncheon . 
Yes ! from my father or my mother . 
And , Cousin Phoebe , since , after all that I have said , your courage does not fail you , we will not part so soon . 
You are welcome , my child , for the present , to such a home as your kinswoman can offer you . 
With this measured , but not exactly cold assurance of a hospitable purpose , Hepzibah kissed her cheek . 
Phoebe and the fire that boiled the teakettle were equally bright , cheerful , and efficient , in their respective offices . 
Hepzibah gazed forth from her habitual sluggishness , the necessary result of long solitude , as from another sphere . 
Whatever she did , too , was done without conscious effort , and with frequent outbreaks of song , which were exceedingly pleasant to the ear . 
Your great great great great grandmother had these cups , when she was married , said Hepzibah to Phoebe . 
She was a Davenport , of a good family . 
They were almost the first teacups ever seen in the colony and if one of them were to be broken , my heart would break with it . 
But it is Nonsense to speak so about a brittle teacup , when I remember what my heart has gone through without breaking . 
What a nice little housewife you . 
are exclaimed the latter , smiling , and at the Same time frowning so prodigiously that the smile was sunshine under a thunder cloud . 
But I was schoolmistress for the little children in our district last summer , and might have been so still . 
Ah ! 'tis all very well ! observed the maiden lady , drawing herself up . 
But these things must have come to you with your mother's blood . 
I never knew a Pyncheon that had any turn for them . 
In cases of distasteful occupation , the second day is generally worse than the first . 
we return to the rack with all the soreness of the preceding torture in our limbs . 
At all events , Hepzibah had fully satisfied herself of the impossibility of ever becoming wonted to this peevishly obstreperous little bell . 
Ring as often as it might , the sound always smote upon her nervous system rudely and suddenly . 
And especially now , while , with her crested teaspoons and antique china , she was flattering herself with ideas of gentility , she felt an unspeakable disinclination to confront a customer . 
Do not trouble yourself , dear cousin ! cried Phoebe , starting lightly up . 
I am shop keeper today . 
You , child ! exclaimed Hepzibah . 
What can a little country girl know of such matters ? Oh , I have done all the shopping for the family at our village store , said Phoebe . 
And I have had a table at a fancy fair , and made better sales than anybody . 
These things are not to be learnt they depend upon a knack that comes , I suppose , added she , smiling , with one's mother's blood . 
It was a case of some intricacy . 
She was probably the very last person in town who still kept the time honored spinning wheel in constant revolution . 
As for the bargain , it was wrinkled slyness and craft pitted against native truth and sagacity . 
Was not that well done ? asked Phoebe , laughing , when the customer was gone . 
Nicely done , indeed , child ! answered Hepzibah . 
I could not have gone through with it nearly so well . 
As you say , it must be a knack that belongs to you on the mother's side . 
She takes everything from her mother . 
She shocked no canon of taste she was admirably in keeping with herself , and never jarred against surrounding circumstances . 
But there was both lustre and depth in her eyes . 
Such was the sphere of Phoebe . 
It was a fair parallel between new Plebeianism and old Gentility . 
Otherwise , it is impossible to explain how the people of the neighborhood so soon became aware of the girl's presence . 
One of the stanchest patrons was little Ned Higgins , the devourer of Jim Crow and the elephant , who to day signalized his omnivorous prowess by swallowing two dromedaries and a locomotive . 
We must renew our stock , Cousin Hepzibah ! cried the little saleswoman . 
The gingerbread figures are all gone , and so are those Dutch wooden milkmaids , and most of our other playthings . 
And we must contrive to get a peck of russet apples , late in the season as it is . 
But , Uncle Venner , you have known the family a great many years . 
Can you tell me whether there ever was a Pyncheon whom she takes after ? I don't believe there ever was , answered the venerable man . 
At any rate , it never was my luck to see her like among them , nor , for that matter , anywhere else . 
There was a spiritual quality in Phoebe's activity . 
Angels do not toil , but let their good works grow out of them and so did Phoebe . 
The two relatives the young maid and the old one found time before nightfall , in the intervals of trade , to make rapid advances towards affection and confidence . 
The dusky terror of that frown , Hepzibah observed , was thought to be lingering ever since in the passageway . 
She bade Phoebe step into one of the tall chairs , and inspect the ancient map of the Pyncheon territory at the eastward . 
Thus it was for the interest of all New England that the Pyncheons should have justice done them . 
She told , too , how that there was undoubtedly an immense treasure of English guineas hidden somewhere about the house , or in the cellar , or possibly in the garden . 
The fragrance of her rich and delightful character still lingered about the place where she had lived , as a dried rosebud scents the drawer where it has withered and perished . 
This lovely Alice had met with some great and mysterious calamity , and had grown thin and white , and gradually faded out of the world . 
Was it the same harpsichord that you showed me ? inquired Phoebe . 
The very same , said Hepzibah . 
It was Alice Pyncheon's harpsichord . 
When I was learning music , my father would never let me open it . 
So , as I could only play on my teacher's instrument , I have forgotten all my music long ago . 
But , on seeing more of Mr. Holgrave , she hardly knew what to make of him . 
, I should be sorry to lose sight of him entirely . 
A woman clings to slight acquaintances when she lives so much alone as I do . 
But if Mr. Holgrave is a lawless person ! remonstrated Phoebe , a part of whose essence it was to keep within the limits of law . 
In its centre was a grass plat , surrounding a ruinous little structure , which showed just enough of its original design to indicate that it had once been a summer house . 
A hop vine , springing from last year's root , was beginning to clamber over it , but would be long in covering the roof with its green mantle . 
Three of the seven gables either fronted or looked sideways , with a dark solemnity of aspect , down into the garden . 
as are always prone to root themselves about human dwellings . 
Phoebe Saw , however , that their growth must have been checked by a degree of careful labor , bestowed daily and systematically on the garden . 
The remainder of the garden presented a well selected assortment of esculent vegetables , in a praiseworthy state of advancement . 
Phoebe wondered whose care and toil it could have been that had planted these vegetables , and kept the soil so clean and orderly . 
Bees , too , strange to say , had thought it worth their while to come hither , possibly from the range of hives beside some farm house miles away . 
There was one other object in the garden which Nature might fairly claim as her inalienable property , in spite of whatever man could do to render it his own . 
Thence , swelling over the rim of moss grown stones , the water stole away under the fence , through what we regret to call a gutter , rather than a channel . 
Nor must we forget to mention a hen coop of very reverend antiquity that stood in the farther corner of the garden , not a great way from the fountain . 
It now contained only Chanticleer , his two wives , and a solitary chicken . 
In proof of the authenticity of this legendary renown , Hepzibah could have exhibited the shell of a great egg , which an ostrich need hardly have been ashamed of . 
It was evident that the race had degenerated , like many a noble race besides , in consequence of too strict a watchfulness to keep it pure . 
These feathered people had existed too long in their distinct variety a fact of which the present representatives , judging by their lugubrious deportment , seemed to be aware . 
The girl ran into the house to get some crumbs of bread , cold potatoes , and other such scraps as were suitable to the accommodating appetite of fowls . 
Returning , she gave a peculiar call , which they seemed to recognize . 
They were a species of tutelary sprite , or Banshee although winged and feathered differently from most other guardian angels . 
That little fowl pays you a high compliment ! said a voice behind Phoebe . 
The chicken really treats you like an old acquaintance , continued he in a quiet way , while a smile made his face pleasanter than Phoebe at first fancied it . 
Those venerable personages in the coop , too , seem very affably disposed . 
Ah , but these hens , answered the young man , these hens of aristocratic lineage would scorn to understand the vulgar language of a barn yard fowl . 
I prefer to think and so would Miss Hepzibah that they recognize the family tone . 
I did not know that my cousin Hepzibah's garden was under another person's care . 
I turn up the earth by way of pastime . 
My sober occupation , so far as I have any , is with a lighter material . 
It is like a bandage over one's eyes , to come into it . 
I don't much like pictures of that sort , they are so hard and stern besides dodging away from the eye , and trying to escape altogether . 
They are conscious of looking very unamiable , I suppose , and therefore hate to be seen . 
If you would permit me , said the artist , looking at Phoebe , I should like to try whether the daguerreotype can bring out disagreeable traits on a perfectly amiable face . 
But there certainly is truth in what you have said . 
Most of my likenesses do look unamiable but the very sufficient reason , I fancy , is , because the originals are so . 
There is a wonderful insight in Heaven's broad and simple sunshine . 
There is , at least , no flattery in my humble line of art . 
Now , here is a likeness which I have taken over and over again , and still with no better result . 
Yet the original wears , to common eyes , a very different expression . 
It would gratify me to have your judgment on this character . 
He exhibited a daguerreotype miniature in a morocco case . 
Phoebe merely glanced at it , and gave it back . 
I know the face , she replied for its stern eye has been following me about all day . 
It is my Puritan ancestor , who hangs yonder in the parlor . 
I don't think him improved by your alterations . 
You would have seen other differences had you looked a little longer , said Holgrave , laughing , yet apparently much struck . 
I can assure you that this is a modern face , and one which you will very probably meet . 
The sun , as you see , tells quite another story , and will not be coaxed out of it , after half a dozen patient attempts on my part . 
Here we have the man , sly , subtle , hard , imperious , and , withal , cold as ice . 
Well , I don't wish to see it any more , observed Phoebe , turning away her eyes . 
It is certainly very like the old portrait . 
But my cousin Hepzibah has another picture , a miniature . 
If the original is still in the world , I think he might defy the sun to make him look stern and hard . 
You have seen that picture , then ! exclaimed the artist , with an expression of much interest . 
I never did , but have a great curiosity to do so . 
And you judge favorably of the face ? There never was a sweeter one , said Phoebe . 
It is almost too soft and gentle for a man's . 
Is there nothing wild in the eye ? continued Holgrave , so earnestly that it embarrassed Phoebe , as did also the quiet freedom with which he presumed on their so recent acquaintance . 
You mistake it for some other . 
A crime , indeed ! Since you are a friend of my cousin Hepzibah's , you should ask her to show you the picture . 
It will suit my purpose still better to see the original , replied the daguerreotypist coolly . 
As to his character , we need not discuss its points they have already been settled by a competent tribunal , or one which called itself competent . 
But , stay ! Do not go yet , if you please ! I have a proposition to make you . 
If agreeable to you , he observed , it would give me pleasure to turn over these flowers , and those ancient and respectable fowls , to your care . 
Coming fresh from country air and occupations , you will soon feel the need of some such out of door employment . 
My own sphere does not so much lie among flowers . 
So we will be fellow laborers , somewhat on the community system . 
She did not altogether like him . 
She rebelled , as it were , against a certain magnetic element in the artist's nature , which he exercised towards her , possibly without being conscious of it . 
After a little while , the twilight , deepened by the shadows of the fruit trees and the surrounding buildings , threw an obscurity over the garden . 
There , said Holgrave , it is time to give over work ! That last stroke of the hoe has cut off a beanstalk . 
Be careful not to drink at Maule's well ! said he . 
Neither drink nor bathe your face in it ! Maule's well ! answered Phoebe . 
On returning into Hepzibah's apartment of the house , she found the low studded parlor so dim and dusky that her eyes could not penetrate the interior . 
Shall I light a lamp , Cousin Hepzibah ? she asked . 
Do , if you please , my dear child , answered Hepzibah . 
But put it on the table in the corner of the passage . 
My eyes are weak and I can seldom bear the lamplight on them . 
Again , while lighting the lamp in the kitchen , Phoebe fancied that her cousin spoke to her . 
In a moment , cousin ! answered the girl . 
These matches just glimmer , and go out . 
But , instead of a response from Hepzibah , she seemed to hear the murmur of an unknown voice . 
It was strangely indistinct , however , and less like articulate words than an unshaped sound , such as would be the utterance of feeling and sympathy , rather than of the intellect . 
So vague was it , that its impression or echo in Phoebe's mind was that of unreality . 
She concluded that she must have mistaken some other sound for that of the human voice or else that it was altogether in her fancy . 
She set the lighted lamp in the passage , and again entered the parlor . 
Hepzibah's form , though its sable outline mingled with the dusk , was now less imperfectly visible . 
In the remoter parts of the room , however , its walls being so ill adapted to reflect light , there was nearly the same obscurity as before . 
Cousin , said Phoebe , did you speak to me just now ? No , child ! replied Hepzibah . 
There was a tremor in it , too , that as all strong feeling is electric partly communicated itself to Phoebe . 
The girl sat silently for a moment . 
But soon , her senses being very acute , she became conscious of an irregular respiration in an obscure corner of the room . 
Pray go to bed for I am sure you must need rest . 
I will sit in the parlor awhile , and collect my thoughts . 
If you begin to love me , I am glad ! She retired to her chamber , but did not soon fall asleep , nor then very profoundly . 
, poor Hepzibah was seeking for some nimble little titbit , which , with what skill she had , and such materials as were at hand , she might toss up for breakfast . 
Phoebe ran to see , but returned without the expected treasure in her hand . 
At that instant , however , the blast of a fish dealer's conch was heard , announcing his approach along the street . 
Hepzibah gladly assenting , the kitchen was soon the scene of savory preparation . 
Her zeal over the fire , therefore , was quite an heroic test of sentiment . 
, to see her rake out a bed of fresh and glowing coals , and proceed to broil the mackerel . 
Her usually pale cheeks were all ablaze with heat and hurry . 
, set out a board at which the stateliest of old Colonel Pyncheon's guests need not have scorned to take his place . 
But the Puritan's face scowled down out of the picture , as if nothing on the table pleased his appetite . 
There were chairs and plates for three . 
Its manifestations were so various , and agreed so little with one another , that the girl knew not what to make of it . 
Sometimes it seemed an ecstasy of delight and happiness . 
She would speak sharply to her then , throwing aside all the starched reserve of her ordinary manner , ask pardon , and the next instant renew the just forgiven injury . 
At last , when their mutual labor was all finished , she took Phoebe's hand in her own trembling one . 
What is it that moves you so ? Hush ! hush ! He is coming ! whispered Hepzibah , hastily wiping her eyes . 
Let him see you first , Phoebe for you are young and rosy , and cannot help letting a smile break out whether or no . 
He always liked bright faces ! And mine is old now , and the tears are hardly dry on it . 
He never could abide tears . 
He has had but little sunshine in his life , poor Clifford , and , oh , what a black shadow . 
Meanwhile there was a step in the passage way , above stairs . 
Phoebe recognized it as the same which had passed upward , as through her dream , in the night time . 
The approaching guest , whoever it might be , appeared to pause at the head of the staircase he paused twice or thrice in the descent he paused again at the foot . 
Finally , he made a long pause at the threshold of the parlor . 
He took hold of the knob of the door then loosened his grasp without opening it . 
Hepzibah , her hands convulsively clasped , stood gazing at the entrance . 
You really frighten me ! Is something awful going to happen ? Hush ! whispered Hepzibah . 
At the first glance , Phoebe saw an elderly personage , in an old fashioned dressing gown of faded damask , and wearing his gray or almost white hair of an unusual length . 
It quite overshadowed his forehead , except when he thrust it back , and stared vaguely about the room . 
Yet there were no tokens that his physical strength might not have sufficed for a free and determined gait . 
It was the spirit of the man that could not walk . 
For an instant after entering the room , the guest stood still , retaining Hepzibah's hand instinctively , as a child does that of the grown person who guides it . 
He made a salutation , or , to speak nearer the truth , an ill defined , abortive attempt at curtsy . 
It was too slight to seize upon at the instant yet , as recollected afterwards , seemed to transfigure the whole man . 
Dear Clifford , said Hepzibah , in the tone with which one soothes a wayward infant , this is our cousin Phoebe , little Phoebe Pyncheon , Arthur's only child , you know . 
She has come from the country to stay with us awhile for our old house has grown to be very lonely now . 
Phoebe Phoebe Pyncheon ? Phoebe ? repeated the guest , with a strange , sluggish , ill defined utterance . 
Arthur's child ! Ah , I forget ! No matter . 
She is very welcome ! Come , dear Clifford , take this chair , said Hepzibah , leading him to his place . 
Pray , Phoebe , lower the curtain a very little more . 
Now let us begin breakfast . 
The guest seated himself in the place assigned him , and looked strangely around . 
He was evidently trying to grapple with the present scene , and bring it home to his mind with a more satisfactory distinctness . 
But the effort was too great to be sustained with more than a fragmentary success . 
Again , after a blank moment , there would be a flickering taper gleam in his eyeballs . 
At one of these moments of less torpid , yet still imperfect animation , Phoebe became convinced of what she had at first rejected as too extravagant and startling an idea . 
She saw that the person before her must have been the original of the beautiful miniature in her cousin Hepzibah's possession . 
It could the more adequately be known that the soul of the man must have suffered some miserable wrong , from its earthly experience . 
Hepzibah had now poured out a cup of deliciously fragrant coffee , and presented it to her guest . 
As his eyes met hers , he seemed bewildered and disquieted . 
Is this you , Hepzibah ? he murmured sadly . 
Feeble as it was , however , and gone in a moment , it had a charm of wonderful beauty . 
It was followed by a coarser expression or one that had the effect of coarseness on the fine mould and outline of his countenance , because there was nothing intellectual to temper it . 
It was a look of appetite . 
In his natural system , though high wrought and delicately refined , a sensibility to the delights of the palate was probably inherent . 
But as it existed now , the effect was painful and made Phoebe droop her eyes . 
In a little while the guest became sensible of the fragrance of the yet untasted coffee . 
More , more ! he cried , with nervous haste in his utterance , as if anxious to retain his grasp of what sought to escape him . 
It was not so much that his expression grew more intellectual this , though it had its share , was not the most peculiar effect . 
Neither was what we call the moral nature so forcibly awakened as to present itself in remarkable prominence . 
In a character where it should exist as the chief attribute , it would bestow on its possessor an exquisite taste , and an enviable susceptibility of happiness . 
Beauty would be his life his aspirations would all tend toward it and , allowing his frame and physical organs to be in consonance , his own developments would likewise be beautiful . 
To these heroic tempers , such martyrdom is the richest meed in the world's gift . 
To the individual before us , it could only be a grief , intense in due proportion with the severity of the infliction . 
Not to speak it harshly or scornfully , it seemed Clifford's nature to be a Sybarite . 
It was perceptible , even there , in the dark old parlor , in the inevitable polarity with which his eyes were attracted towards the quivering play of sunbeams through the shadowy foliage . 
It was Hepzibah's misfortune , not Clifford's fault . 
A nature like Clifford's can contract no debts of that kind . 
Poor Hepzibah knew this truth , or , at least , acted on the instinct of it . 
They never possessed a charm and if they had , the canker of her grief for him would long since have destroyed it . 
The guest leaned back in his chair . 
Mingled in his countenance with a dreamy delight , there was a troubled look of effort and unrest . 
How pleasant ! How delightful ! he murmured , but not as if addressing any one . 
now felt herself moved to address the stranger . 
Here is a new kind of rose , which I found this morning in the garden , said she , choosing a small crimson one from among the flowers in the vase . 
There will be but five or six on the bush this season . 
This is the most perfect of them all not a speck of blight or mildew in it . 
Thank you ! This has done me good . 
The guest made an impatient gesture of the hand , and addressed Hepzibah with what might easily be recognized as the licensed irritability of a petted member of the family . 
I cannot bear it ! It must not stare me in the face ! Yes , dear Clifford , the picture shall be covered , said Hepzibah soothingly . 
There is a crimson curtain in a trunk above stairs , a little faded and moth eaten , I'm afraid , but Phoebe and I will do wonders with it . 
A droll idea that ! He smiled to himself , and threw a glance of fine sarcastic meaning towards Hepzibah . 
But the several moods of feeling , faintly as they were marked , through which he had passed , occurring in so brief an interval of time , had evidently wearied the stranger . 
He was probably accustomed to a sad monotony of life , not so much flowing in a stream , however sluggish , as stagnating in a pool around his feet . 
He appeared to become grosser , almost cloddish . 
Before he had quite sunken away , however , the sharp and peevish tinkle of the shop bell made itself audible . 
Striking most disagreeably on Clifford's auditory organs and the characteristic sensibility of his nerves , it caused him to start upright out of his chair . 
The secret was , that an individual of his temper can always be pricked more acutely through his sense of the beautiful and harmonious than through his heart . 
It is very disagreeable even to me . 
Yes , our shop bell , said Hepzibah , a certain natural dignity , mingled with deep emotion , now asserting itself in her manner . 
For you must know , dearest Clifford , that we are very poor . 
So he spoke with only a grieved emotion . 
It was but of brief continuance , however soon leaving him in a quiescent , and , to judge by his countenance , not an uncomfortable state . 
Are we so very poor , Hepzibah ? said he . 
Finally , his chair being deep and softly cushioned , Clifford fell asleep . 
, hearing these tokens of settled slumber , Hepzibah seized the opportunity to peruse his face more attentively than she had yet dared to do . 
Her heart melted away in tears her profoundest spirit sent forth a moaning voice , low , gentle , but inexpressibly sad . 
In this depth of grief and pity she felt that there was no irreverence in gazing at his altered , aged , faded , ruined face . 
After partly closing the door , the child turned back , and mumbled something to Phoebe , which , as the whale was but half disposed of , she could not perfectly understand . 
What did you say , my little fellow ? asked she . 
Mother wants to know repeated Ned Higgins more distinctly , how Old Maid Pyncheon's brother does ? Folks say he has got home . 
My cousin Hepzibah's brother ? exclaimed Phoebe , surprised at this sudden explanation of the relationship between Hepzibah and her guest . 
so soon learns to throw over his features , however unintelligent in themselves . 
Then as Phoebe continued to gaze at him , without answering his mother's message , he took his departure . 
As the child went down the steps , a gentleman ascended them , and made his entrance into the shop . 
A susceptible observer , at any rate , might have regarded it as affording very little evidence of the general benignity of soul whereof it purported to be the outward reflection . 
by the unassisted light of his countenance . 
On perceiving a young rose bud of a girl , instead of the gaunt presence of the old maid , a look of surprise was manifest . 
He at first knit his brows then smiled with more unctuous benignity than ever . 
, I am a cousin of Miss Hepzibah , on a visit to her . 
sought to bring itself into actual contact with the object of its regards . 
The man , the sex , somehow or other , was entirely too prominent in the Judge's demonstrations of that sort . 
Phoebe's eyes sank , and , without knowing why , she felt herself blushing deeply under his look . 
Dear me ! what is to be done now ? thought the country girl to herself . 
I like that , Cousin Phoebe ! cried he , with an emphatic nod of approbation . 
I like it much , my little cousin ! You are a good child , and know how to take care of yourself . 
A young girl especially if she be a very pretty one can never be too chary of her lips . 
Indeed , sir , said Phoebe , trying to laugh the matter off , I did not mean to be unkind . 
In these days of off hand equipment , the matter was easily enough arranged . 
Possibly , also , could the two personages have stood together before her eye , many points of difference would have been perceptible , and perhaps only a general resemblance . 
The long lapse of intervening years , in a climate so unlike that which had fostered the ancestral Englishman , must inevitably have wrought important changes in the physical system of his descendant . 
The Judge's volume of muscle could hardly be the same as the Colonel's there was undoubtedly less beef in him . 
If so , Judge Pyncheon could endure a century or two more of such refinement as well as most other men . 
The similarity , intellectual and moral , between the Judge and his ancestor appears to have been at least as strong as the resemblance of mien and feature would afford reason to anticipate . 
We must not stain our page with any contemporary scandal , to a similar purport , that may have been whispered against the Judge . 
Here the parallel , in some sort , fails . 
The Judge had wedded but a single wife , and lost her in the third or fourth year of their marriage . 
Whether the Judge in any degree resembled him , the further progress of our narrative may show . 
Yet there was a circumstance , very trifling in itself , which impressed her with an odd degree of horror . 
The latter scandal as became a person of sense , and , more especially , a member of the Pyncheon family Phoebe had set down for the absurdity which it unquestionably was . 
The smoke of the domestic hearth has scented them through and through . 
, she very foolishly started , and clasped her hands . 
Of course , it was exceedingly ridiculous in Phoebe to be discomposed by such a trifle , and still more unpardonable to show her discomposure to the individual most concerned in it . 
But the incident chimed in so oddly with her previous fancies about the Colonel and the Judge , that , for the moment , it seemed quite to mingle their identity . 
What is the matter with you , young woman ? said Judge Pyncheon , giving her one of his harsh looks . 
Are you afraid of anything ? Oh , nothing sir nothing in the world ! answered Phoebe , with a little laugh of vexation at herself . 
But perhaps you wish to speak with my cousin Hepzibah . 
Shall I call her ? Stay a moment , if you please , said the Judge , again beaming sunshine out of his face . 
You seem to be a little nervous this morning . 
The town air , Cousin Phoebe , does not agree with your good , wholesome country habits . 
To be an inmate with such a guest may well startle an innocent young girl ! You quite puzzle me , sir , replied Phoebe , gazing inquiringly at the Judge . 
There is no frightful guest in the house , but only a poor , gentle , childlike man , whom I believe to be Cousin Hepzibah's brother . 
He startle me ! Oh , no indeed ! I rejoice to hear so favorable and so ingenuous an account of my cousin Clifford , said the benevolent Judge . 
Many years ago , when we were boys and young men together , I had a great affection for him , and still feel a tender interest in all his concerns . 
You say , Cousin Phoebe , he appears to be weak minded . 
Heaven grant him at least enough of intellect to repent of his past sins ! Nobody , I fancy , observed Phoebe , can have fewer to repent of . 
But is Clifford in the parlor ? I will just step in and see . 
Her brother seemed to be just falling asleep after breakfast and I am sure she would not like him to be disturbed . 
No , no , Miss Phoebe ! said Judge Pyncheon in a voice as deep as a thunder growl , and with a frown as black as the cloud whence it issues . 
Stay you here ! I know the house , and know my cousin Hepzibah , and know her brother Clifford likewise . 
I am at home here , Phoebe , you must recollect , and you are the stranger . 
I will just step in , therefore , and see for myself how Clifford is , and assure him and Hepzibah of my kindly feelings and best wishes . 
It is right , at this juncture , that they should both hear from my own lips how much I desire to serve them . 
Ha ! here is Hepzibah herself ! Such was the case . 
The vibrations of the Judge's voice had reached the old gentlewoman in the parlor , where she sat , with face averted , waiting on her brother's slumber . 
She made a repelling gesture with her hand , and stood a perfect picture of prohibition , at full length , in the dark frame of the doorway . 
Possibly , the Judge was aware how little true hardihood lay behind Hepzibah's formidable front . 
It may have been his purpose , indeed , to melt poor Hepzibah on the spot , as if she were a figure of yellow wax . 
Hepzibah , my beloved cousin , I am rejoiced ! exclaimed the Judge most emphatically . 
Now , at length , you have something to live for . 
Yes , and all of us , let me say , your friends and kindred , have more to live for than we had yesterday . 
I have lost no time in hastening to offer any assistance in my power towards making Clifford comfortable . 
He belongs to us all . 
I know how much he requires , how much he used to require , with his delicate taste , and his love of the beautiful . 
Nay , then , let me be Clifford's host , and your own likewise . 
Come at once to my house . 
The country air , and all the conveniences , I may say luxuries , that I have gathered about me , will do wonders for him . 
And you and I , dear Hepzibah , will consult together , and watch together , and labor together , to make our dear Clifford happy . 
It was quite otherwise with Hepzibah the Judge's smile seemed to operate on her acerbity of heart like sunshine upon vinegar , making it ten times sourer than ever . 
I stand here with an open heart , willing and anxious to receive yourself and Clifford into it . 
Do not refuse my good offices , my earnest propositions for your welfare ! They are such , in all respects , as it behooves your nearest kinsman to make . 
It would never suit Clifford , said Hepzibah , as briefly as before . 
To know Judge Pyncheon was to see him at that moment . 
He will await their better mood , and hold himself as ready to assist them then as at this moment . 
You do me great wrong , dear Cousin Hepzibah ! said he , first kindly offering her his hand , and then drawing on his glove preparatory to departure . 
Very great wrong ! But I forgive it , and will study to make you think better of me . 
Of course , our poor Clifford being in so unhappy a state of mind , I cannot think of urging an interview at present . 
When that shall happen , I desire no other revenge than your acceptance of the best offices in my power to do you . 
With a bow to Hepzibah , and a degree of paternal benevolence in his parting nod to Phoebe , the Judge left the shop , and went smiling along the street . 
Yet his offers were surely kind ! Do not speak of them , he has a heart of iron ! rejoined Hepzibah . 
Go , now , and talk to Clifford ! Amuse and keep him quiet ! It would disturb him wretchedly to see me so agitated as I am . 
There , go , dear child , and I will try to look after the shop . 
But Phoebe , in order to keep the universe in its old place , was fain to smother , in some degree , her own intuitions as to Judge Pyncheon's character . 
She had responded to the call . 
They had no success with Clifford . 
But the Happy Valley had a cloud over it . 
At one time , her eyes chanced to rest on Alice Pyncheon's harpsichord . 
Poor Clifford ! Poor Hepzibah ! Poor harpsichord ! All three would have been miserable together . 
By some good agency , possibly , by the unrecognized interposition of the long buried Alice herself , the threatening calamity was averted . 
But the worst of all the hardest stroke of fate for Hepzibah to endure , and perhaps for Clifford , too was his invincible distaste for her appearance . 
There was no help for it . 
It would be the latest impulse to die within him . 
She was a grief to Clifford , and she knew it . 
In this extremity , the antiquated virgin turned to Phoebe . 
No grovelling jealousy was in her heart . 
She therefore turned to Phoebe , and resigned the task into the young girl's hands . 
The latter took it up cheerfully , as she did everything , but with no sense of a mission to perform , and succeeding all the better for that same simplicity . 
By the involuntary effect of a genial temperament , Phoebe soon grew to be absolutely essential to the daily comfort , if not the daily life , of her two forlorn companions . 
There was no morbidness in Phoebe if there had been , the old Pyncheon House was the very locality to ripen it into incurable disease . 
This facile adaptation was at once the symptom of perfect health and its best preservative . 
A nature like Phoebe's has invariably its due influence , but is seldom regarded with due honor . 
To the guest , to Hepzibah's brother , or Cousin Clifford , as Phoebe now began to call him , she was especially necessary . 
Not that he could ever be said to converse with her , or often manifest , in any other very definite mode , his sense of a charm in her society . 
Phoebe's presence , and the contiguity of her fresh life to his blighted one , was usually all that he required . 
So long as Phoebe sang , she might stray at her own will about the house . 
It pleased him best , however , when she sat on a low footstool at his knee . 
It is perhaps remarkable , considering her temperament , that Phoebe oftener chose a strain of pathos than of gayety . 
But the young and happy are not ill pleased to temper their life with a transparent shadow . 
Broad mirth , in the sacred presence of dark misfortune , would have jarred harshly and irreverently with the solemn symphony that rolled its undertone through Hepzibah's and her brother's life . 
Therefore , it was well that Phoebe so often chose sad themes , and not amiss that they ceased to be so sad while she was singing them . 
Becoming habituated to her companionship , Clifford readily showed how capable of imbibing pleasant tints and gleams of cheerful light from all quarters his nature must originally have been . 
He grew youthful while she sat by him . 
It did more than to illuminate it transfigured him with an expression that could only be interpreted as the glow of an exquisite and happy spirit . 
An eye at once tender and acute might have beheld in the man some shadow of what he was meant to be . 
The same perplexity will invariably haunt us with regard to natures that tend to feed exclusively upon the Beautiful , let their earthly fate be as lenient as it may . 
Phoebe , it is probable , had but a very imperfect comprehension of the character over which she had thrown so beneficent a spell . 
The fire upon the hearth can gladden a whole semicircle of faces round about it , but need not know the individuality of one among them all . 
Indeed , there was something too fine and delicate in Clifford's traits to be perfectly appreciated by one whose sphere lay so much in the Actual as Phoebe's did . 
For Clifford , however , the reality , and simplicity , and thorough homeliness of the girl's nature were as powerful a charm as any that she possessed . 
Beauty , it is true , and beauty almost perfect in its own style , was indispensable . 
But nothing more beautiful nothing prettier , at least was ever made than Phoebe . 
They shiver in their loneliness , be it on a mountain top or in a dungeon . 
The world was no longer a delusion . 
By looking a little further in this direction , we might suggest an explanation of an often suggested mystery . 
He knew it , with the instinctive delicacy that had survived his intellectual decay . 
Thus , his sentiment for Phoebe , without being paternal , was not less chaste than if she had been his daughter . 
He was a man , it is true , and recognized her as a woman . 
She was his only representative of womankind . 
He took unfailing note of every charm that appertained to her sex , and saw the ripeness of her lips , and the virginal development of her bosom . 
But , after all , it seemed rather a perception , or a sympathy , than a sentiment belonging to himself as an individual . 
But we strive in vain to put the idea into words . 
No adequate expression of the beauty and profound pathos with which it impresses us is attainable . 
The path which would best have suited her was the well worn track of ordinary life the companions in whom she would most have delighted were such as one encounters at every turn . 
The mystery which enveloped Clifford , so far as it affected her at all , was an annoyance , rather than the piquant charm which many women might have found in it . 
She gave him an affectionate regard , because he needed so much love , and seemed to have received so little . 
With a ready tact , the result of ever active and wholesome sensibility , she discerned what was good for him , and did it . 
But Phoebe afforded her poor patient a supply of purer air . 
Such a flower was Phoebe in her relation with Clifford , and such the delight that he inhaled from her . 
Yet , it must be said , her petals sometimes drooped a little , in consequence of the heavy atmosphere about her . 
She grew more thoughtful than heretofore . 
Looking aside at Clifford's face , and seeing the dim , unsatisfactory elegance and the intellect almost quenched , she would try to inquire what had been his life . 
Let the world have done him what vast wrong it might , she knew Cousin Clifford too well or fancied so ever to shudder at the touch of his thin , delicate fingers . 
Within a few days after the appearance of this remarkable inmate , the routine of life had established itself with a good deal of uniformity in the old house of our narrative . 
It was now the young girl's turn to be the nurse , the guardian , the playmate , or whatever is the fitter phrase , of the gray haired man . 
Here , sometimes , in this green play place of flickering light , Phoebe read to Clifford . 
Small thanks were due to the books , however , if the girl's readings were in any degree more successful than her elderly cousin's . 
But the fictions in which the country girl , unused to works of that nature , often became deeply absorbed interested her strange auditor very little , or not at all . 
When Phoebe broke into a peal of merry laughter at what she read , he would now and then laugh for sympathy , but oftener respond with a troubled , questioning look . 
And wisely too ! Is not the world sad enough , in genuine earnest , without making a pastime of mock sorrows ? With poetry it was rather better . 
He delighted in the swell and subsidence of the rhythm , and the happily recurring rhyme . 
Nor was Clifford incapable of feeling the sentiment of poetry , not , perhaps , where it was highest or deepest , but where it was most flitting and ethereal . 
It pleased him more , and was better for his inward welfare , that Phoebe should talk , and make passing occurrences vivid to his mind by her accompanying description and remarks . 
The life of the garden offered topics enough for such discourse as suited Clifford best . 
He never failed to inquire what flowers had bloomed since yesterday . 
This affection and sympathy for flowers is almost exclusively a woman's trait . 
Men , if endowed with it by nature , soon lose , forget , and learn to despise it , in their contact with coarser things than flowers . 
Clifford , too , had long forgotten it but found it again now , as he slowly revived from the chill torpor of his life . 
It is wonderful how many pleasant incidents continually came to pass in that secluded garden spot when once Phoebe had set herself to look for them . 
She had seen or heard a bee there , on the first day of her acquaintance with the place . 
After all , there need be no question why the bees came to that one green nook in the dusty town . 
God sent them thither to gladden our poor Clifford . 
They brought the rich summer with them , in requital of a little honey . 
When the bean vines began to flower on the poles , there was one particular variety which bore a vivid scarlet blossom . 
And , ever since the unfolding of the first bud , a multitude of humming birds had been attracted thither . 
It was with indescribable interest , and even more than childish delight , that Clifford watched the humming birds . 
He had not merely grown young he was a child again . 
Indeed , all the enjoyments of this period were provocative of tears . 
Coming so late as it did , it was a kind of Indian summer , with a mist in its balmiest sunshine , and decay and death in its gaudiest delight . 
The more Clifford seemed to taste the happiness of a child , the sadder was the difference to be recognized . 
Frequently there was a dim shadow of doubt in his eyes . 
It was the Eden of a thunder smitten Adam , who had fled for refuge thither out of the same dreary and perilous wilderness into which the original Adam was expelled . 
By degrees , the observer came to feel nearly as much interest in this chicken of illustrious race as the mother hen did . 
We linger too long , no doubt , beside this paltry rivulet of life that flowed through the garden of the Pyncheon House . 
But we deem it pardonable to record these mean incidents and poor delights , because they proved so greatly to Clifford's benefit . 
They had the earth smell in them , and contributed to give him health and substance . 
Some of his occupations wrought less desirably upon him . 
But sometimes he would suddenly cry out , The dark face gazes at me ! and be miserable the whole day afterwards . 
In addition to Clifford , Hepzibah , and Phoebe , two guests made up the company . 
One was the artist Holgrave , who , in spite of his consociation with reformers , and his other queer and questionable traits , continued to hold an elevated place in Hepzibah's regard . 
So this oddly composed little social party used to assemble under the ruinous arbor . 
She talked kindly to the vagrant artist , and took sage counsel lady as she was with the wood sawyer , the messenger of everybody's petty errands , the patched philosopher . 
Miss Hepzibah , ma'am , said he once , after they had all been cheerful together , I really enjoy these quiet little meetings of a Sabbath afternoon . 
But I have a better scheme for him , by and by . 
It does seem to me that men make a wonderful mistake in trying to heap up property upon property . 
Why , so they are , Uncle Venner , remarked Phoebe after a pause for she had been trying to fathom the profundity and appositeness of this concluding apothegm . 
But for this short life of ours , one would like a house and a moderate garden spot of one's own . 
Come , Phoebe , said Hepzibah , it is time to bring the currants . 
These , with water , but not from the fountain of ill omen , close at hand , constituted all the entertainment . 
Clifford , as the company partook of their little banquet , grew to be the gayest of them all . 
He had been as cheerful , no doubt , while alone with Phoebe , but never with such tokens of acute , although partial intelligence . 
But , as the sunlight left the peaks of the Seven Gables , so did the excitement fade out of Clifford's eyes . 
He gazed vaguely and mournfully about him , as if he missed something precious , and missed it the more drearily for not knowing precisely what it was . 
I want my happiness ! at last he murmured hoarsely and indistinctly , hardly Shaping out the words . 
You are partly crazy and partly imbecile a ruin , a failure , as almost everybody is , though some in less degree , or less perceptibly , than their fellows . 
Fancying , however , that it might be for his benefit occasionally to diversify the scene , Phoebe sometimes suggested that he should look out upon the life of the street . 
It opened above the porch , where there had formerly been a balcony , the balustrade of which had long since gone to decay , and been removed . 
But he and Phoebe made a sight as well worth seeing as any that the city could exhibit . 
Things familiar to the youngest child that had begun its outlook at existence seemed strange to him . 
, his mind appeared to have lost its proper gripe and retentiveness . 
With the water cart Clifford could never grow familiar it always affected him with just the same surprise as at first . 
It was the same with the railroad . 
Nothing gives a sadder sense of decay than this loss or suspension of the power to deal with unaccustomed things , and to keep up with the swiftness of the passing moment . 
It can merely be a suspended animation for , were the power actually to perish , there would be little use of immortality . 
We are less than ghosts , for the time being , whenever this calamity befalls us . 
Clifford was indeed the most inveterate of conservatives . 
All the antique fashions of the street were dear to him even such as were characterized by a rudeness that would naturally have annoyed his fastidious senses . 
One afternoon a scissor grinder chanced to set his wheel a going under the Pyncheon Elm , and just in front of the arched window . 
, that the grinder might apply the article to his magic wheel , and give it back as good as new . 
It was an ugly , little , venomous serpent of a noise , as ever did petty violence to human ears . 
But Clifford listened with rapturous delight . 
Nevertheless , its charm lay chiefly in the past for the scissor grinder's wheel had hissed in his childish ears . 
He sometimes made doleful complaint that there were no stage coaches nowadays . 
Their disappearance made him doubt , he said , whether the berries had not left off growing in the broad pastures and along the shady country lanes . 
But anything that appealed to the sense of beauty , in however humble a way , did not require to be recommended by these old associations . 
came along with his barrel organ , and stopped under the wide and cool shadows of the elm . 
With his quick professional eye he took note of the two faces watching him from the arched window , and , opening his instrument , began to scatter its melodies abroad . 
The Italian turned a crank and , behold ! every one of these small individuals started into the most curious vivacity . 
All were precisely in the same condition as before they made themselves so ridiculous by their haste to toil , to enjoy , to accumulate gold , and to become wise . 
The monkey , meanwhile , with a thick tail curling out into preposterous prolixity from beneath his tartans , took his station at the Italian's feet . 
Every moment , also , he took off his Highland bonnet , and performed a bow and scrape . 
Neither was there any possibility of satisfying the covetous little devil . 
Clifford , however , was a being of another order . 
He had taken childish delight in the music , and smiled , too , at the figures which it set in motion . 
Pyncheon Street was sometimes enlivened by spectacles of more imposing pretensions than the above , and which brought the multitude along with them . 
As a mere object of sight , nothing is more deficient in picturesque features than a procession seen in its passage through narrow streets . 
It might so fascinate him that he would hardly be restrained from plunging into the surging stream of human sympathies . 
So it proved with Clifford . 
He shuddered he grew pale he threw an appealing look at Hepzibah and Phoebe , who were with him at the window . 
They comprehended nothing of his emotions , and supposed him merely disturbed by the unaccustomed tumult . 
At last , with tremulous limbs , he started up , set his foot on the window sill , and in an instant more would have been in the unguarded balcony . 
Both impulses might have wrought on him at once . 
But his companions , affrighted by his gesture , which was that of a man hurried away in spite of himself , seized Clifford's garment and held him back . 
Phoebe , to whom all extravagance was a horror , burst into sobs and tears . 
Clifford , Clifford ! are you crazy ? cried his sister . 
I hardly know , Hepzibah , said Clifford , drawing a long breath . 
The air with God's sweetest and tenderest sunshine in it , was meet for mankind to breathe into their hearts , and send it forth again as the utterance of prayer . 
Clifford sat at the window with Hepzibah , watching the neighbors as they stepped into the street . 
In her aspect there was a familiar gladness , and a holiness that you could play with , and yet reverence it as much as ever . 
She was like a prayer , offered up in the homeliest beauty of one's mother tongue . 
The emotion communicated itself to Hepzibah . 
Dear brother , said she earnestly , let us go ! We belong nowhere . 
We have not a foot of space in any church to kneel upon but let us go to some place of worship , even if we stand in the broad aisle . 
The eye of their Father seemed to be withdrawn , and gave them no encouragement . 
The warm sunny air of the street made them shiver . 
Their hearts quaked within them at the idea of taking one step farther . 
It cannot be , Hepzibah ! it is too late , said Clifford with deep sadness . 
They could not flee their jailer had but left the door ajar in mockery , and stood behind it to watch them stealing out . 
At the threshold , they felt his pitiless gripe upon them . 
In this respect he was a child , a child for the whole term of his existence , be it long or short . 
He sometimes told Phoebe and Hepzibah his dreams , in which he invariably played the part of a child , or a very young man . 
Their voices , also , were very pleasant to him , heard at a distance , all swarming and intermingling together as flies do in a sunny room . 
Clifford would , doubtless , have been glad to share their sports . 
It was curious to see how the passers by regarded these brilliant fantasies , as they came floating down , and made the dull atmosphere imaginative about them . 
Aha , Cousin Clifford ! cried Judge Pyncheon . 
What ! still blowing soap bubbles ! The tone seemed as if meant to be kind and soothing , but yet had a bitterness of sarcasm in it . 
As for Clifford , an absolute palsy of fear came over him . 
Strength is incomprehensible by weakness , and , therefore , the more terrible . 
There is no greater bugbear than a strong willed relative in the circle of his own connections . 
XII The Daguerreotypist IT must not be supposed that the life of a personage naturally so active as Phoebe could be wholly confined within the precincts of the old Pyncheon House . 
Clifford's demands upon her time were usually satisfied , in those long days , considerably earlier than sunset . 
Quiet as his daily existence seemed , it nevertheless drained all the resources by which he lived . 
And while he thus slept early , as other children do , and dreamed of childhood , Phoebe was free to follow her own tastes for the remainder of the day and evening . 
This was a freedom essential to the health even of a character so little susceptible of morbid influences as that of Phoebe . 
The old house , as we have already said , had both the dry rot and the damp rot in its walls it was not good to breathe no other atmosphere than that . 
Clifford , the reader may perhaps imagine , was too inert to operate morally on his fellow creatures , however intimate and exclusive their relations with him . 
Even as it was , a change grew visible a change partly to be regretted , although whatever charm it infringed upon was repaired by another , perhaps more precious . 
Her eyes looked larger , and darker , and deeper so deep , at some silent moments , that they seemed like Artesian wells , down , down , into the infinite . 
She was less girlish than when we first beheld her alighting from the omnibus less girlish , but more a woman . 
The only youthful mind with which Phoebe had an opportunity of frequent intercourse was that of the daguerreotypist . 
Inevitably , by the pressure of the seclusion about them , they had been brought into habits of some familiarity . 
During the early part of their acquaintance , Phoebe had held back rather more than was customary with her frank and simple manners from Holgrave's not very marked advances . 
The artist , in a desultory manner , had imparted to Phoebe something of his history . 
Young as he was , and had his career terminated at the point already attained , there had been enough of incident to fill , very creditably , an autobiographic volume . 
A romance on the plan of Gil Blas , adapted to American society and manners , would cease to be a romance . 
Left early to his own guidance , he had begun to be self dependent while yet a boy and it was a condition aptly suited to his natural force of will . 
He had subsequently travelled New England and the Middle States , as a peddler , in the employment of a Connecticut manufactory of cologne water and other essences . 
In an episodical way he had studied and practised dentistry , and with very flattering success , especially in many of the factory towns along our inland streams . 
At a later period he had spent some months in a community of Fourierists . 
he had very remarkable endowments . 
His present phase , as a daguerreotypist , was of no more importance in his own view , nor likely to be more permanent , than any of the preceding ones . 
It had been taken up with the careless alacrity of an adventurer , who had his bread to earn . 
It would be thrown aside as carelessly , whenever he should choose to earn his bread by some other equally digressive means . 
It was impossible to know Holgrave without recognizing this to be the fact . 
Phoebe soon saw it likewise , and gave him the sort of confidence which such a certainty inspires . 
however , and sometimes repelled , not by any doubt of his integrity to whatever law he acknowledged , but by a sense that his law differed from her own . 
Then , moreover , she scarcely thought him affectionate in his nature . 
He was too calm and cool an observer . 
Phoebe felt his eye , often his heart , seldom or never . 
He took a certain kind of interest in Hepzibah and her brother , and Phoebe herself . 
He studied them attentively , and allowed no slightest circumstance of their individualities to escape him . 
In his relations with them , he seemed to be in quest of mental food , not heart sustenance . 
Always , in his interviews with Phoebe , the artist made especial inquiry as to the welfare of Clifford , whom , except at the Sunday festival , he seldom saw . 
Does he still seem happy ? he asked one day . 
As happy as a child , answered Phoebe but like a child , too very easily disturbed . 
How disturbed ? inquired Holgrave . 
By things without , or by thoughts within ? I cannot see his thoughts ! How should I ? replied Phoebe with simple piquancy . 
Very often his humor changes without any reason that can be guessed at , just as a cloud comes over the sun . 
Latterly , since I have begun to know him better , I feel it to be not quite right to look closely into his moods . 
He has had such a great sorrow , that his heart is made all solemn and sacred by it . 
When he is cheerful , when the sun shines into his mind , then I venture to peep in , just as far as the light reaches , but no further . 
It is holy ground where the shadow falls ! How prettily you express this sentiment ! said the artist . 
I can understand the feeling , without possessing it . 
Had I your opportunities , no scruples would prevent me from fathoming Clifford to the full depth of my plummet line ! How strange that you should wish it ! remarked Phoebe involuntarily . 
What is Cousin Clifford to you ? Oh , nothing , of course , nothing ! answered Holgrave with a smile . 
Judge Pyncheon ! Clifford ! What a complex riddle a complexity of complexities do they present ! It requires intuitiv e sympathy , like a young girl's , to solve it . 
, is pretty certain to go astray . 
The artist now turned the conversation to themes less dark than that which they had touched upon . 
So it was with Holgrave . 
As to the main point , may we never live to doubt it ! as to the better centuries that are coming , the artist was surely right . 
Yet it was well for him to think so . 
in what he had , and in what he lacked , the artist might fitly enough stand forth as the representative of many compeers in his native land . 
His career it would be difficult to prefigure . 
But these matters are delightfully uncertain . 
The effervescence of youth and passion , and the fresh gloss of the intellect and imagination , endow them with a false brilliancy , which makes fools of themselves and other people . 
But our business is with Holgrave as we find him on this particular afternoon , and in the arbor of the Pyncheon garden . 
Her thought had scarcely done him justice when it pronounced him cold or , if so , he had grown warmer now . 
Without such purpose on her part , and unconsciously on his , she made the House of the Seven Gables like a home to him , and the garden a familiar precinct . 
But these transparent natures are often deceptive in their depth those pebbles at the bottom of the fountain are farther from us than we think . 
He poured himself out as to another self . 
Without directly answering her , he turned from the Future , which had heretofore been the theme of his discourse , and began to speak of the influences of the Past . 
One subject , indeed , is but the reverberation of the other . 
Shall we never , never get rid of this Past ? cried he , keeping up the earnest tone of his preceding conversation . 
A dead man sits on all our judgment seats and living judges do but search out and repeat his decisions . 
If each generation were allowed and expected to build its own houses , that single change , comparatively unimportant in itself , would imply almost every reform which society is now suffering for . 
It were better that they should crumble to ruin once in twenty years , or thereabouts , as a hint to the people to examine into and reform the institutions which they symbolize . 
How you hate everything old ! said Phoebe in dismay . 
It makes me dizzy to think of such a shifting world ! I certainly love nothing mouldy , answered Holgrave . 
Oh , I am pursuing my studies here not in books , however , replied Holgrave . 
The house , in my view , is expressive of that odious and abominable Past , with all its bad influences , against which I have just been declaiming . 
I dwell in it for a while , that I may know the better how to hate it . 
She seems to think that all the calamities of the Pyncheons began from that quarrel with the wizard , as you call him . 
To plant a family ! This idea is at the bottom of most of the wrong and mischief which men do . 
Human blood , in order to keep its freshness , should run in hidden streams , as the water of an aqueduct is conveyed in subterranean pipes . 
In the family existence of these Pyncheons , for instance , forgive me , Phoebe . 
You speak very unceremoniously of my kindred , said Phoebe , debating with herself whether she ought to take offence . 
I speak true thoughts to a true mind ! answered Holgrave , with a vehemence which Phoebe had not before witnessed in him . 
You talk of the lunacy of the Pyncheons is it contagious ? I understand you ! said the artist , coloring and laughing . 
I believe I am a little mad . 
This subject has taken hold of my mind with the strangest tenacity of clutch since I have lodged in yonder old gable . 
Do you write for the magazines ? inquired Phoebe . 
Is it possible you did not know it ? cried Holgrave . 
Well , such is literary fame ! Yes . 
In the humorous line , I am thought to have a very pretty way with me and as for pathos , I am as provocative of tears as an onion . 
But shall I read you my story ? Yes , if it is not very long , said Phoebe , and added laughingly , nor very dull . 
And what does your master want with me ? said the carpenter to Mr. Pyncheon's black servant . 
No wonder if there should be a job to do on the roof . 
Don't know what massa wants , answered Scipio . 
For a fair , workmanlike job , he'll find me his man . 
And so the house is haunted , is it ? It will take a tighter workman than I am to keep the spirits out of the Seven Gables . 
What's that you mutter to yourself , Matthew Maule ? asked Scipio . 
And what for do you look so black at me ? No matter , darky . 
with which many persons regarded him was partly the result of his own character and deportment , and partly an inheritance . 
He was the grandson of a former Matthew Maule , one of the early settlers of the town , and who had been a famous and terrible wizard in his day . 
It is not the less certain , however , that awe and terror brooded over the memories of those who died for this horrible crime of witchcraft . 
Their graves , in the crevices of the rocks , were supposed to be incapable of retaining the occupants who had been so hastily thrust into them . 
had an inveterate habit of haunting a certain mansion , styled the House of the Seven Gables , against the owner of which he pretended to hold an unsettled claim for ground rent . 
It was a wild story , perhaps , but seemed not altogether so incredible to those who could remember what an inflexibly obstinate old fellow this wizard Maule had been . 
Now , the wizard's grandson , the young Matthew Maule of our story , was popularly supposed to have inherited some of his ancestor's questionable traits . 
It is wonderful how many absurdities were promulgated in reference to the young man . 
There was a great deal of talk among the neighbors , particularly the petticoated ones , about what they called the witchcraft of Maule's eye . 
This noted edifice , though its style might be getting a little out of fashion , was still as respectable a family residence as that of any gentleman in town . 
In the very act of running to climb Colonel Pyncheon's knee , the boy had discovered the old Puritan to be a corpse . 
So faithfully had this contract been fulfilled , that now , as the carpenter approached the house , his practised eye could detect nothing to criticise in its condition . 
The house had that pleasant aspect of life which is like the cheery expression of comfortable activity in the human countenance . 
You could see , at once , that there was the stir of a large family within it . 
Her presence imparted an indescribable grace and faint witchery to the whole edifice . 
There was a vertical sundial on the front gable and as the carpenter passed beneath it , he looked up and noted the hour . 
Three o'clock ! said he to himself . 
My father told me that dial was put up only an hour before the old Colonel's death . 
Black Scipio answered the summons in a prodigious , hurry but showed the whites of his eyes in amazement on beholding only the carpenter . 
Lord a mercy ! what a great man he be , this carpenter fellow . 
mumbled Scipio , down in his throat . 
Anybody think he beat on the door with his biggest hammer ! Here I am ! said Maule sternly . 
Show me the way to your master's parlor . 
As he stept into the house , a note of sweet and melancholy music thrilled and vibrated along the passage way , proceeding from one of the rooms above stairs . 
It was the harpsichord which Alice Pyncheon had brought with her from beyond the sea . 
The fair Alice bestowed most of her maiden leisure between flowers and music , although the former were apt to droop , and the melodies were often sad . 
She was of foreign education , and could not take kindly to the New England modes of life , in which nothing beautiful had ever been developed . 
As Mr. Pyncheon had been impatiently awaiting Maule's arrival , black Scipio , of course , lost no time in ushering the carpenter into his master's presence . 
being covered with a carpet , so skilfully and richly wrought that it seemed to glow as with living flowers . 
In one corner stood a marble woman , to whom her own beauty was the sole and sufficient garment . 
Some pictures that looked old , and had a mellow tinge diffused through all their artful splendor hung on the walls . 
There were two objects that appeared rather out of place in this very handsomely furnished room . 
The other was a portrait of a stern old man , in a Puritan garb , painted roughly , but with a bold effect , and a remarkably strong expression of character . 
At a small table , before a fire of English sea coal , sat Mr. Pyncheon , sipping coffee , which had grown to be a very favorite beverage with him in France . 
The carpenter , however , stepped at once to the hearth , and turned himself about , so as to look Mr. Pyncheon in the face . 
You sent for me , said he . 
Be pleased to explain your business , that I may go back to my own affairs . 
Ah ! excuse me , said Mr. Pyncheon quietly . 
I did not mean to tax your time without a recompense . 
I know the dispute to which you allude , observed Mr. Pyncheon with undisturbed equanimity . 
I am well aware that my grandfather was compelled to resort to a suit at law , in order to establish his claim to the foundation site of this edifice . 
We will not , if you please , renew the discussion . 
The matter was settled at the time , and by the competent authorities , equitably , it is to be presumed , and , at all events , irrevocably . 
Yet , singularly enough , there is an incidental reference to this very subject in what I am now about to say to you . 
And this same inveterate grudge , excuse me , I mean no offence , this irritability , which you have just shown , is not entirely aside from the matter . 
It was well known , to those in his confidence , that he anticipated neither difficulty nor delay . 
It is obvious to conclude , therefore , that he had grounds , not apparent to his heirs , for his confident anticipation of success in the matter of this Eastern claim . 
that the popular belief pointed to some mysterious connection and dependence , existing between the family of the Maules and these vast unrealized possessions of the Pyncheons . 
Again , when the lawyers were making inquiry for the missing document , it was a by word that it would never be found , unless in the wizard's skeleton hand . 
they had secretly caused the wizard's grave to be searched . 
Nothing was discovered , however , except that , unaccountably , the right hand of the skeleton was gone . 
And here Mr. Pyncheon could bring an item of his own personal evidence into play . 
Certain papers belonging to Colonel Pyncheon , as his grandson distinctly recollected , had been spread out on the table . 
Matthew Maule understood the insinuated suspicion . 
Nor will it become me to resent any rudeness towards either my grandfather or myself . 
A gentleman , before seeking intercourse with a person of your station and habits , will first consider whether the urgency of the end may compensate for the disagreeableness of the means . 
It does so in the present instance . 
For a long time Matthew Maule is said to have turned a cold ear to these propositions . 
here gives an account of some very strange behavior on the part of Colonel Pyncheon's portrait . 
But such incredible incidents are merely to be mentioned aside . 
Give up this house ! exclaimed Mr. Pyncheon , in amazement at the proposal . 
Were I to do so , my grandfather would not rest quiet in his grave ! He never has , if all stories are true , remarked the carpenter composedly . 
But that matter concerns his grandson more than it does Matthew Maule . 
I have no other terms to propose . 
He himself had no personal attachment for the house , nor any pleasant associations connected with his childish residence in it . 
It was a mansion exceedingly inadequate to the style of living which it would be incumbent on Mr. Pyncheon to support , after realizing his territorial rights . 
His steward might deign to occupy it , but never , certainly , the great landed proprietor himself . 
He was quite ashamed , after the foregoing reflections , to propose any diminution of so moderate a recompense for the immense service to be rendered . 
I consent to your proposition , Maule , cried he . 
Others say that Matthew Maule was contented with a private written agreement , in which Mr. Pyncheon pledged his honor and integrity to the fulfillment of the terms concluded upon . 
The gentleman then ordered wine , which he and the carpenter drank together , in confirmation of their bargain . 
This sherry is too potent a wine for me it has affected my brain already , he observed , after a somewhat startled look at the picture . 
On returning to Europe , I shall confine myself to the more delicate vintages of Italy and France , the best of which will not bear transportation . 
My Lord Pyncheon may drink what wine he will , and wherever he pleases , replied the carpenter , as if he had been privy to Mr. Pyncheon's ambitious projects . 
But first , sir , if you desire tidings of this lost document , I must crave the favor of a little talk with your fair daughter Alice . 
You are mad , Maule ! exclaimed Mr. Pyncheon haughtily and now , at last , there was anger mixed up with his pride . 
There was , at least , an assignable motive for the first stipulation there appeared to be none whatever for the last . 
Not to encumber our story with Mr. Pyncheon's scruples , whether of conscience , pride , or fatherly affection , he at length ordered his daughter to be called . 
So Alice Pyncheon was summoned , and appeared . 
If ever there was a lady born , and set apart from the world's vulgar mass by a certain gentle and cold stateliness , it was this very Alice Pyncheon . 
Yet there was the womanly mixture in her the tenderness , or , at least , the tender capabilities . 
All that he would have required was simply the acknowledgment that he was indeed a man , and a fellow being , moulded of the same elements as she . 
It must have been the devil himself that made Maule so subtile in his preception . 
Does the girl look at me as if I were a brute beast ? thought he , setting his teeth . 
But , if you have business with this young man , pray let me go again . 
You know I do not love this room , in spite of that Claude , with which you try to bring back sunny recollections . 
Stay a moment , young lady , if you please ! said Matthew Maule . 
My business with your father is over . 
With yourself , it is now to begin ! Alice looked towards her father , in surprise and inquiry . 
Yes , Alice , said Mr. Pyncheon , with some disturbance and confusion . 
The importance of the document in question renders it advisable to neglect no possible , even if improbable , method of regaining it . 
I certainly shall entertain no manner of apprehension , with my father at hand , said Alice with maidenly dignity . 
to fix your eyes on mine ! Alice complied , She was very proud . 
She instinctively knew , it may be , that some sinister or evil potency was now striving to pass her barriers nor would she decline the contest . 
So Alice put woman's might against man's might a match not often equal on the part of woman . 
But , in truth , the picture was no more to him at that moment than the blank wall against which it hung . 
Stay , Maule ! exclaimed Mr. Pyncheon , stepping forward . 
I forbid your proceeding further ! Pray , my dear father , do not interrupt the young man , said Alice , without changing her position . 
His efforts , I assure you , will prove very harmless . 
Again Mr. Pyncheon turned his eyes towards the Claude . 
It was then his daughter's will , in opposition to his own , that the experiment should be fully tried . 
Henceforth , therefore , he did but consent , not urge it . 
Alice's own purity would be her safeguard . 
With his mind full of imaginary magnificence , Mr. Pyncheon heard a half uttered exclamation from his daughter . 
It was very faint and low so indistinct that there seemed but half a will to shape out the words , and too undefined a purport to be intelligible . 
After a further interval , Maule spoke . 
Mr. Pyncheon came hastily forward . 
Alice sat in an attitude of profound repose , with the long brown lashes drooping over her eyes . 
There she is ! said the carpenter . 
Speak to her ! Alice ! My daughter ! exclaimed Mr. Pyncheon . 
My own Alice ! She did not stir . 
Louder ! said Maule , smiling . 
Alice ! Awake ! cried her father . 
But the sound evidently reached her not . 
It is indescribable what a sense of remote , dim , unattainable distance betwixt himself and Alice was impressed on the father by this impossibility of reaching her with his voice . 
He kissed her , with so great a heart throb in the kiss , that he thought she must needs feel it . 
Then , in a gust of anger at her insensibility , he shook her maiden form with a violence which , the next moment , it affrighted him to remember . 
He withdrew his encircling arms , and Alice whose figure , though flexible , had been wholly impassive relapsed into the same attitude as before these attempts to arouse her . 
Maule having shifted his position , her face was turned towards him slightly , but with what seemed to be a reference of her very slumber to his guidance . 
Villain ! cried Mr. Pyncheon , shaking his clenched fist at Maule . 
You and the fiend together have robbed me of my daughter . 
Give her back , spawn of the old wizard , or you shall climb Gallows Hill in your grandfather's footsteps ! Softly , Mr. Pyncheon ! said the carpenter with scornful composure . 
Now let Matthew Maule try whether she be as proud as the carpenter found her awhile since . 
He beckoned with his hand , and , rising from her chair , blindly , but undoubtingly , as tending to her sure and inevitable centre , the proud Alice approached him . 
He waved her back , and , retreating , Alice sank again into her seat . 
She is mine ! said Matthew Maule . 
, with a view of discovering the lost document . 
During her trance , Alice described three figures as being present to her spiritualized perception . 
These three visionary characters possessed a mutual knowledge of the missing document . 
Upon this , the two meanly dressed figures mocked and jeered at the much abashed old dignitary , and pointed their fingers at the stain . 
At this juncture , Maule turned to Mr. Pyncheon . 
It will never be allowed , said he . 
The custody of this secret , that would so enrich his heirs , makes part of your grandfather's retribution . 
He must choke with it until it is no longer of any value . 
Mr. Pyncheon tried to speak , but what with fear and passion could make only a gurgling murmur in his throat . 
Aha , worshipful sir ! so you have old Maule's blood to drink ! said he jeeringly . 
Fiend in man's shape ! why dost thou keep dominion over my child ? cried Mr. Pyncheon , when his choked utterance could make way . 
Give me back my daughter . 
Then go thy ways and may we never meet again ! Your daughter ! said Matthew Maule . 
He waved his hands with an upward motion and , after a few repetitions of similar gestures , the beautiful Alice Pyncheon awoke from her strange trance . 
But , alas for the beautiful , the gentle , yet too haughty Alice ! A power that she little dreamed of had laid its grasp upon her maiden soul . 
A will , most unlike her own , constrained her to do its grotesque and fantastic bidding . 
Her father as it proved , had martyred his poor child to an inordinate desire for measuring his land by miles instead of acres . 
And , therefore , while Alice Pyncheon lived , she was Maule's slave , in a bondage more humiliating , a thousand fold , than that which binds its chain around the body . 
Alice , laugh ! the carpenter , beside his hearth , would say or perhaps intensely will it , without a spoken word . 
And , even were it prayer time , or at a funeral , Alice must break into wild laughter . 
Alice , be sad ! and , at the instant , down would come her tears , quenching all the mirth of those around her like sudden rain upon a bonfire . 
Thus all the dignity of life was lost . 
There was laughter and good cheer within for Matthew Maule , that night , was to wed the laborer's daughter , and had summoned proud Alice Pyncheon to wait upon his bride . 
And so she did and when the twain were one , Alice awoke out of her enchanted sleep . 
Yet , no longer proud , humbly , and with a smile all steeped in sadness , she kissed Maule's wife , and went her way . 
The kith and kin were there , and the whole respectability of the town besides . 
had been flung over the senses of his auditress . 
It was the effect , unquestionably , of the mystic gesticulations by which he had sought to bring bodily before Phoebe's perception the figure of the mesmerizing carpenter . 
A veil was beginning to be muffled about her , in which she could behold only him , and live only in his thoughts and emotions . 
Let us allow him integrity , also , forever after to be confided in since he forbade himself to twine that one link more which might have rendered his spell over Phoebe indissoluble . 
He made a slight gesture upward with his hand . 
You really mortify me , my dear Miss Phoebe ! he exclaimed , smiling half sarcastically at her . 
These silvery beams were already powerful enough to change the character of the lingering daylight . 
With the lapse of every moment , the garden grew more picturesque the fruit trees , shrubbery , and flower bushes had a dark obscurity among them . 
The commonplace characteristics which , at noontide , it seemed to have taken a century of sordid life to accumulate were now transfigured by a charm of romance . 
A hundred mysterious years were whispering among the leaves , whenever the slight sea breeze found its way thither and stirred them . 
Here and there , a few drops of this freshness were scattered on a human heart , and gave it youth again , and sympathy with the eternal youth of nature . 
The artist chanced to be one on whom the reviving influence fell . 
It made him feel what he sometimes almost forgot , thrust so early as he had been into the rude struggle of man with man how youthful he still was . 
It seems to me , he observed , that I never watched the coming of so beautiful an eve , and never felt anything so very much like happiness as at this moment . 
Moonlight , and the sentiment in man's heart responsive to it , are the greatest of renovators and reformers . 
I never cared much about moonlight before . 
Never , answered Phoebe and life does not look the same , now that I have felt it so . 
It seems as if I had looked at everything , hitherto , in broad daylight , or else in the ruddy light of a cheerful fire , glimmering and dancing through a room . 
Ah , poor me ! she added , with a half melancholy laugh . 
I shall never be so merry as before I knew Cousin Hepzibah and poor Cousin Clifford . 
I have grown a great deal older , in this little time . 
They are welcome , notwithstanding ! You have lost nothing , Phoebe , worth keeping , nor which it was possible to keep , said Holgrave after a pause . 
Our first youth is of no value for we are never conscious of it until after it is gone . 
In some cases , the two states come almost simultaneously , and mingle the sadness and the rapture in one mysterious emotion . 
I hardly think I understand you , said Phoebe . 
No wonder , replied Holgrave , smiling for I have told you a secret which I hardly began to know before I found myself giving it utterance . 
Cousin Hepzibah is not quick at figures , and will give herself a headache over the day's accounts , unless I help her . 
But Holgrave detained her a little longer . 
Miss Hepzibah tells me , observed he , that you return to the country in a few days . 
Yes , but only for a little while , answered Phoebe for I look upon this as my present home . 
I go to make a few arrangements , and to take a more deliberate leave of my mother and friends . 
It is pleasant to live where one is much desired and very useful and I think I may have the satisfaction of feeling myself so here . 
You surely may , and more than you imagine , said the artist . 
Whatever health , comfort , and natural life exists in the house is embodied in your person . 
These blessings came along with you , and will vanish when you leave the threshold . 
Your poor cousin Clifford is another dead and long buried person , on whom the governor and council have wrought a necromantic miracle . 
I should not wonder if he were to crumble away , some morning , after you are gone , and nothing be seen of him more , except a heap of dust . 
Miss Hepzibah , at any rate , will lose what little flexibility she has . 
They both exist by you . 
I should be very sorry to think so , answered Phoebe gravely . 
A kindly interest , too , helpless old children that they are ! But you have no conception what a different kind of heart mine is from your own . 
If permitted to witness the close , I doubt not to derive a moral satisfaction from it , go matters how they may . 
There is a conviction within me that the end draws nigh . 
I do not like this . 
The play costs the performers too much , and the audience is too cold hearted . 
You are severe , said Holgrave , compelled to recognize a degree of truth in the piquant sketch of his own mood . 
I am somewhat of a mystic , it must be confessed . 
The tendency is in my blood , together with the faculty of mesmerism , which might have brought me to Gallows Hill , in the good old times of witchcraft . 
But I have no such knowledge . 
You hold something back ! said Phoebe . 
Nothing , no secrets but my own , answered Holgrave . 
I can perceive , indeed , that Judge Pyncheon still keeps his eye on Clifford , in whose ruin he had so large a share . 
His motives and intentions , however are a mystery to me . 
My mind has a twist aside , like almost everybody's mind , except your own . 
that , were it only for this one circumstance , I cannot help fancying that Destiny is arranging its fifth act for a catastrophe . 
cried Phoebe with renewed vexation for she was by nature as hostile to mystery as the sunshine to a dark corner . 
You puzzle me more than ever ! Then let us part friends ! said Holgrave , pressing her hand . 
Or , if not friends , let us part before you entirely hate me . 
You , who love everybody else in the world ! Good by , then , said Phoebe frankly . 
I do not mean to be angry a great while , and should be sorry to have you think so . 
There has Cousin Hepzibah been standing in the shadow of the doorway , this quarter of an hour past ! She thinks I stay too long in the damp garden . 
So , good night , and good by . 
She was to take a seat in the next train of cars , which would transport her to within half a dozen miles of her country village . 
The tears were in Phoebe's eyes a smile , dewy with affectionate regret , was glimmering around her pleasant mouth . 
Look where she would , lay her hand on what she might , the object responded to her consciousness , as if a moist human heart were in it . 
She called Chanticleer , his two wives , and the venerable chicken , and threw them some crumbs of bread from the breakfast table . 
Phoebe bade it be a good old chicken during her absence , and promised to bring it a little bag of buckwheat . 
It is well that you are going back , for a little while , into your native air . 
There has been too much weight on your spirits . 
The house is too gloomy and lonesome the shop is full of vexations and as for me , I have no faculty of making things look brighter than they are . 
Dear Clifford has been your only comfort ! Come hither , Phoebe , suddenly cried her cousin Clifford , who had said very little all the morning . 
It is probable that the latent emotions of this parting hour had revived , in some degree , his bedimmed and enfeebled faculties . 
A moment before , she had known nothing which she would have sought to hide . 
Now , as if some secret were hinted to her own consciousness through the medium of another's perception , she was fain to let her eyelids droop beneath Clifford's gaze . 
It is enough , Phoebe , said Clifford , with a melancholy smile . 
When I first saw you , you were the prettiest little maiden in the world and now you have deepened into beauty . 
Girlhood has passed into womanhood the bud is a bloom ! Go , now I feel lonelier than I did . 
On the doorstep , she met the little urchin whose marvellous feats of gastronomy have been recorded in the earlier pages of our narrative . 
We shall miss you , next Sabbath afternoon , observed the street philosopher . 
Come back soon , or I shall be gone to my farm for I begin to find these wood sawing jobs a little too tough for my back ache . 
Very soon , Uncle Venner , replied Phoebe . 
And let it be all the sooner , Phoebe , for the sake of those poor souls yonder , continued her companion . 
But , I suppose , people never feel so much like angels as when they are doing what little good they may . 
XV The Scowl and Smile SEVERAL days passed over the Seven Gables , heavily and drearily enough . 
, an easterly storm had set in , and indefatigably apply itself to the task of making the black roof and walls of the old house look more cheerless than ever before . 
Yet was the outside not half so cheerless as the interior . 
Poor Clifford was cut off , at once , from all his scanty resources of enjoyment . 
Phoebe was not there nor did the sunshine fall upon the floor . 
The garden , with its muddy walks , and the chill , dripping foliage of its summer house , was an image to be shuddered at . 
The custom of the shop fell off , because a story got abroad that she soured her small beer and other damageable commodities , by scowling on them . 
The inutility of her best efforts , however , palsied the poor old gentlewoman . 
It was no fault of Hepzibah's . 
The picture of the Puritan Colonel shivered on the wall . 
Hepzibah attempted to enliven matters by a fire in the parlor . 
But the storm demon kept watch above , and , whenever a flame was kindled , drove the smoke back again , choking the chimney's sooty throat with its own breath . 
Nevertheless , during four days of this miserable storm , Clifford wrapt himself in an old cloak , and occupied his customary chair . 
On the morning of the fifth , when summoned to breakfast , he responded only by a broken hearted murmur , expressive of a determination not to leave his bed . 
His sister made no attempt to change his purpose . 
But Clifford , it seemed , though he did not make his appearance below stairs , had , after all , bestirred himself in quest of amusement . 
she knew must proceed from Alice Pyncheon's harpsichord . 
She was aware that Clifford , in his youth , had possessed a cultivated taste for music , and a considerable degree of skill in its practice . 
Nor was it less marvellous that the long silent instrument should be capable of so much melody . 
Hepzibah involuntarily thought of the ghostly harmonies , prelusive of death in the family , which were attributed to the legendary Alice . 
were driven away by no less vulgar a dissonance than the ringing of the shop bell . 
A foot was heard scraping itself on the threshold , and thence somewhat ponderously stepping on the floor . 
Hepzibah delayed a moment , while muffling herself in a faded shawl , which had been her defensive armor in a forty years' warfare against the east wind . 
Few of her sex , on such occasions , have ever looked so terrible as our poor scowling Hepzibah . 
Hepzibah's presentiment had not deceived her . 
It was no other than Judge Pyncheon , who , after in vain trying the front door , had now effected his entrance into the shop . 
I could not rest without calling to ask , once more , whether I can in any manner promote his comfort , or your own . 
You can do nothing , said Hepzibah , controlling her agitation as well as she could . 
I devote myself to Clifford . 
He has every comfort which his situation admits of . 
Why insulate him thus from all sympathy and kindness ? Clifford , alas ! has had too much of solitude . 
Now let him try society , the society , that is to say , of kindred and old friends . 
Let me , for instance , but see Clifford , and I will answer for the good effect of the interview . 
You cannot see him , answered Hepzibah . 
Clifford has kept his bed since yesterday . 
who has shed so many tears for Clifford's calamity . 
You behold some of them now . 
I cannot bear it ! It will drive me beyond a woman's decency ! It will drive me mad ! Forbear . 
Not another word ! It will make me spurn you ! For once , Hepzibah's wrath had given her courage . 
The church acknowledged it the state acknowledged it . 
It was denied by nobody . 
did Judge Pyncheon himself , probably , entertain many or very frequent doubts , that his enviable reputation accorded with his deserts . 
Men of strong minds , great force of character , and a hard texture of the sensibilities , are very capable of falling into mistakes of this kind . 
They are ordinarily men to whom forms are of paramount importance . 
Their field of action lies among the external phenomena of life . 
Here , then , we are to seek the true emblem of the man's character , and of the deed that gives whatever reality it possesses to his life . 
that there was enough of splendid rubbish in his life to cover up and paralyze a more active and subtile conscience than the Judge was ever troubled with . 
This admirably arranged life was what he was conscious of in the progress of every day . 
Sickness will not always help him do it not always the death hour ! But our affair now is with Judge Pyncheon as he stood confronting the fierce outbreak of Hepzibah's wrath . 
Thus far the Judge's countenance had expressed mild forbearance , grave and almost gentle deprecation of his cousin's unbecoming violence , free and Christian like forgiveness of the wrong inflicted by her words . 
Hepzibah almost adopted the insane belief that it was her old Puritan ancestor , and not the modern Judge , on whom she had just been wreaking the bitterness of her heart . 
Never did a man show stronger proof of the lineage attributed to him than Judge Pyncheon , at this crisis , by his unmistakable resemblance to the picture in the inner room . 
Cousin Hepzibah , said he very calmly , it is time to have done with this . 
With all my heart ! answered she . 
Then , why do you persecute us any longer ? Leave poor Clifford and me in peace . 
Neither of us desires anything better ! It is my purpose to see Clifford before I leave this house , continued the Judge . 
Do not act like a madwoman , Hepzibah ! I am his only friend , and an all powerful one . 
I set him free ! You ! answered Hepzibah . 
I never will believe it ! He owed his dungeon to you his freedom to God's providence ! I set him free ! reaffirmed Judge Pyncheon , with the calmest composure . 
And I came hither now to decide whether he shall retain his freedom . 
It will depend upon himself . 
For this purpose , I must see him . 
But , Cousin Hepzibah , you confess a great deal , and very much to the purpose . 
Now , listen , and I will frankly explain my reasons for insisting on this interview . 
He was supposed to be immensely rich . 
Nobody doubted that he stood among the weightiest men of his day . 
And do you seek to deprive us of that ? asked Hepzibah , unable to restrain her bitter contempt . 
Is this your price for ceasing to persecute poor Clifford ? Certainly not , my dear cousin ! answered the Judge , smiling benevolently . 
No , no ! But here lies the gist of the matter . 
Of my uncle's unquestionably great estate , as I have said , not the half no , not one third , as I am fully convinced was apparent after his death . 
Now , I have the best possible reasons for believing that your brother Clifford can give me a clew to the recovery of the remainder . 
Clifford told me so himself ! No , no ! exclaimed Hepzibah incredulously . 
You are dreaming , Cousin Jaffrey . 
I do not belong to the dreaming class of men , said the Judge quietly . 
Some months before my uncle's death , Clifford boasted to me of the possession of the secret of incalculable wealth . 
His purpose was to taunt me , and excite my curiosity . 
But , from a pretty distinct recollection of the particulars of our conversation , I am thoroughly convinced that there was truth in what he said . 
His boast was no idle word . 
It had a directness , an emphasis , a particularity , that showed a backbone of solid meaning within the mystery of his expression . 
He looked upon me as his enemy . 
He considered me as the cause of his overwhelming disgrace , his imminent peril of death , his irretrievable ruin . 
There was no great probability , therefore , of his volunteering information , out of his dungeon , that should elevate me still higher on the ladder of prosperity . 
But the moment has now come when he must give up his secret . 
And what if he should refuse ? inquired Hepzibah . 
to have his deportment and habits constantly and carefully overlooked . 
Your neighbors have been eye witnesses to whatever has passed in the garden . 
A still larger circle I myself , among the rest can testify to his extravagances at the arched window . 
Thousands beheld him , a week or two ago , on the point of finging himself thence into the street . 
You cannot mean it ! shrieked Hepzibah . 
And , once sure of the course pointed out by conscience , you know me too well , Cousin Hepzibah , to entertain a doubt that I shall pursue it . 
O Jaffrey , Cousin Jaffrey . 
I have told you my determination . 
I am not apt to change . 
Clifford must give up his secret , or take the consequences . 
And let him decide quickly for I have several affairs to attend to this morning , and an important dinner engagement with some political friends . 
Clifford has no secret ! answered Hepzibah . 
And God will not let you do the thing you meditate ! We shall see , said the unmoved Judge . 
The responsibility is altogether on your part . 
Nevertheless , knowing you as I do , I believe it to be my best course to allow you to judge for yourself as to the improbability of his possessing any valuable secret . 
Surely , it must have been at no slight cost that he had thus fortified his soul with iron . 
Such calmness is a mightier effort than the violence of weaker men . 
And there was yet a heavy task for him to do . 
I thought you called me back . 
No , no gruffly answered Judge Pyncheon with a harsh frown , while his brow grew almost a black purple , in the shadow of the room . 
XVI Clifford's Chamber NEVER had the old house appeared so dismal to poor Hepzibah as when she departed on that wretched errand . 
There was a strange aspect in it . 
As she trode along the foot worn passages , and opened one crazy door after another , and ascended the creaking staircase , she gazed wistfully and fearfully around . 
Her nerves were set all ajar by the scene of passion and terror through which she had just struggled . 
Her colloquy with Judge Pyncheon , who so perfectly represented the person and attributes of the founder of the family , had called back the dreary past . 
It weighed upon her heart . 
The whole seemed little else but a series of calamity , reproducing itself in successive generations , with one general hue , and varying in little , save the outline . 
It is but for a moment , comparatively , that anything looks strange or startling , a truth that has the bitter and the sweet in it . 
But Hepzibah could not rid herself of the sense of something unprecedented at that instant passing and soon to be accomplished . 
Her nerves were in a shake . 
Her eyes travelled along the street , from doorstep to doorstep , noting the wet sidewalks , with here and there a puddle in hollows that had been imperceptible until filled with water . 
Hepzibah flung herself upon that unknown woman's companionship , even thus far off . 
Hepzibah wished that he would pass yet more slowly , and befriend her shivering solitude a little longer . 
Next to the lightest heart , the heaviest is apt to be most playful . 
Hepzibah had little hardihood for her own proper pain , and far less for what she must inflict on Clifford . 
It would be like flinging a porcelain vase , with already a crack in it , against a granite column . 
It did but increase the difficulty that Judge Pyncheon was under a delusion as to the secret which he supposed Clifford to possess . 
Thus , as the Judge required an impossibility of Clifford , the latter , as he could not perform it , must needs perish . 
She remembered some vague intimations , on her brother's part , which if the supposition were not essentially preposterous might have been so interpreted . 
Little Phoebe Pyncheon would at once have lighted up the whole scene , if not by any available suggestion , yet simply by the warm vivacity of her character . 
The idea of the artist occurred to Hepzibah . 
Young and unknown , mere vagrant adventurer as he was , she had been conscious of a force in Holgrave which might well adapt him to be the champion of a crisis . 
But , at this period of the day , as Hepzibah might have anticipated , the artist was at his public rooms . 
With an impulse of idle curiosity , that flickered among her heavy thoughts , she looked at one of the daguerreotypes , and beheld Judge Pyncheon frowning at her . 
Fate stared her in the face . 
She turned back from her fruitless quest , with a heartsinking sense of disappointment . 
In all her years of seclusion , she had never felt , as now , what it was to be alone . 
Those mists had gathered , as if to symbolize a great , brooding mass of human trouble , doubt , confusion , and chill indifference , between earth and the better regions . 
Her faith was too weak the prayer too heavy to be thus uplifted . 
It fell back , a lump of lead , upon her heart . 
Its vastness made it nothing . 
But Hepzibah did not see that , just as there comes a warm sunbeam into every cottage window , so comes a lovebeam of God's care and pity for every separate need . 
Still no response ! Nor was it to be wondered at . 
She had struck with the entire force of her heart's vibration , communicating , by some subtile magnetism , her own terror to the summons . 
Clifford would turn his face to the pillow , and cover his head beneath the bedclothes , like a startled child at midnight . 
Shall I come in ? A silence . 
She could see the interior of the summer house , and its circular seat , kept moist by the droppings of the roof . 
into a great , wet mass of tangled and broad leaved shadow , where the squash vines were clambering tumultuously upon an old wooden framework , set casually aslant against the fence . 
Twice he paused to snuff the air , and then anew directed his course towards the parlor window . 
The cat stared up at her , like a detected thief or murderer , and , the next instant , took to flight . 
No other living creature was visible in the garden . 
Chanticleer and his family had either not left their roost , disheartened by the interminable rain , or had done the next wisest thing , by seasonably returning to it . 
Even Jaffrey Pyncheon must help her now She hastened down the staircase , shrieking as she went . 
Clifford is gone ! she cried . 
I cannot find my brother . 
Help , Jaffrey Pyncheon ! Some harm will happen to him ! She threw open the parlor door . 
Yet , considering his own interest in the matter , he might have bestirred himself with a little more alacrity . 
Do you hear me , Jaffrey Pyncheon ? screamed Hepzibah , as she again approached the parlor door , after an ineffectual search elsewhere . 
Their vivid and wild expression seemed likewise sufficient to illuminate them it was an expression of scorn and mockery , coinciding with the emotions indicated by his gesture . 
Nor could she otherwise account for the Judge's quiescent mood than by supposing him craftily on the watch , while Clifford developed these symptoms of a distracted mind . 
Be quiet , Clifford ! whispered his sister , raising her hand to impress caution . 
And , in accordance with his words , he began to laugh , still pointing his finger at the object , invisible to Hepzibah , within the parlor . 
She was seized with a sudden intuition of some horrible thing . 
She thrust herself past Clifford , and disappeared into the room but almost immediately returned , with a cry choking in her throat . 
My God ! what is to become of us ? gasped Hepzibah . 
Come ! said Clifford in a tone of brief decision , most unlike what was usual with him . 
He beckoned with his hand , and intimated , so far as she could comprehend him , his purpose that they should go together from the house . 
No matter how preposterous or insane , a purpose is a Godsend to them . 
Hepzibah had reached this point . 
For herself , she was like a person in a dream , when the will always sleeps . 
Clifford , ordinarily so destitute of this faculty , had found it in the tension of the crisis . 
Why do you delay so ? cried he sharply . 
Of course it was not real no such black , easterly day as this had yet begun to be Judge Pyncheon had not talked with , her . 
What an absurd figure the old fellow cuts now ! whispered he to Hepzibah . 
It was merely the initials of his own name , which , with somewhat of his characteristic grace about the forms of the letters , he had cut there when a boy . 
, but there was a moral sensation , mingling itself with the physical chill , and causing her to shake more in spirit than in body . 
In Hepzibah's mind , there was the wretched consciousness of being adrift . 
It was this , indeed , that gave him the control which he had at once , and so irresistibly , established over his movements . 
It not a little resembled the exhilaration of wine . 
Or , it might more fancifully be compared to a joyous piece of music , played with wild vivacity , but upon a disordered instrument . 
They met few people abroad , even on passing from the retired neighborhood of the House of the Seven Gables into what was ordinarily the more thronged and busier portion of the town . 
Had it been a sunny and cheerful day , they could hardly have gone through the streets without making themselves obnoxious to remark . 
Any certainty would have been preferable to this . 
Whether it was Clifford's purpose , or only chance , had led them thither , they now found themselves passing beneath the arched entrance of a large structure of gray stone . 
On the contrary , I have never been awake before ! Meanwhile , looking from the window , they could see the world racing past them . 
The spires of meeting houses seemed set adrift from their foundations the broad based hills glided away . 
Everything was unfixed from its age long rest , and moving at whirlwind speed in a direction opposite to their own . 
Within the car there was the usual interior life of the railroad , offering little to the observation of other passengers , but full of novelty for this pair of strangely enfranchised prisoners . 
It seemed marvellous how all these people could remain so quietly in their seats , while so much noisy strength was at work in their behalf . 
, had plunged into the English scenery and adventures of pamphlet novels , and were keeping company with dukes and earls . 
Others , whose briefer span forbade their devoting themselves to studies so abstruse , beguiled the little tedium of the way with penny papers . 
A party of girls , and one young man , on opposite sides of the car , found huge amusement in a game of ball . 
Old acquaintances for such they soon grew to be , in this rapid current of affairs continually departed . 
Here and there , amid the rumble and the tumult , sat one asleep . 
Sleep sport business graver or lighter study and the common and inevitable movement onward ! It was life itself ! Clifford's naturally poignant sympathies were all aroused . 
He caught the color of what was passing about him , and threw it back more vividly than he received it , but mixed , nevertheless , with a lurid and portentous hue . 
Hepzibah , on the other hand , felt herself more apart from human kind than even in the seclusion which she had just quitted . 
You are not happy , Hepzibah ! said Clifford apart , in a tone of aproach . 
The quality of Hepzibah's mind was too unmalleable to take new impressions so readily as Clifford's . 
He had a winged nature she was rather of the vegetable kind , and could hardly be kept long alive , if drawn up by the roots . 
Thus it happened that the relation heretofore existing between her brother and herself was changed . 
At home , she was his guardian here , Clifford had become hers , and seemed to comprehend whatever belonged to their new position with a singular rapidity of intelligence . 
He had been startled into manhood and intellectual vigor or , at least , into a condition that resembled them , though it might be both diseased and transitory . 
The conductor now applied for their tickets and Clifford , who had made himself the purse bearer , put a bank note into his hand , as he had observed others do . 
For the lady and yourself ? asked the conductor . 
And how far ? As far as that will carry us , said Clifford . 
It is no great matter . 
We are riding for pleasure merely . 
The best chance of pleasure , in an easterly rain , I take it , is in a man's own house , with a nice little fire in the chimney . 
I cannot precisely agree with you , said Clifford , courteously bowing to the old gentleman , and at once taking up the clew of conversation which the latter had proffered . 
They may be said , in few and pithy words , to have ill served a poor purpose . 
My impression is , that our wonderfully increased and still increasing facilities of locomotion are destined to bring us around again to the nomadic state . 
The past is but a coarse and sensual prophecy of the present and the future . 
To apply this truth to the topic now under discussion . 
This life possessed a charm which , ever since man quitted it , has vanished from existence . 
And it typified something better than itself . 
But in our ascending spiral , we escape all this . 
These railroads could but the whistle be made musical , and the rumble and the jar got rid of are positively the greatest blessing that the ages have wrought out for us . 
The merry girls let their ball drop upon the floor , and gazed at him . 
But , alas ! no woman's eye had seen his face while it was beautiful . 
I should scarcely call it an improved state of things , observed Clifford's new acquaintance , to live everywhere and nowhere ! Would you not ? exclaimed Clifford , with singular energy . 
Morbid influences , in a thousand fold variety , gather about hearths , and pollute the life of households . 
There is no such unwholesome atmosphere as that of an old home , rendered poisonous by one's defunct forefathers and relatives . 
I speak of what I know . 
I could never flourish there , nor be happy , nor do nor enjoy what God meant me to do and enjoy . 
His face darkened , and seemed to contract , and shrivel itself up , and wither into age . 
Never , sir he repeated . 
I could never draw cheerful breath there ! I should think not , said the old gentleman , eyeing Clifford earnestly , and rather apprehensively . 
No longer ago than this morning , I was old . 
You have my best wishes for it . 
For Heaven's sake , dear Clifford , be quiet ! whispered his sister . 
Be quiet yourself , Hepzibah ! returned her brother . 
No matter what they think ! I am not mad . 
For the first time in thirty years my thoughts gush up and find words ready for them . 
I must talk , and I will ! He turned again towards the old gentleman , and renewed the conversation . 
I do not speak wildly . 
Within the lifetime of the child already born , Clifford went on , all this will be done away . 
The world is growing too ethereal and spiritual to bear these enormities a great while longer . 
Mesmerism , now ! Will that effect nothing , think you , towards purging away the grossness out of human life ? All a humbug ! growled the old gentleman . 
A great thing , indeed , sir , particularly as regards the detection of bank robbers and murderers . 
I don't quite like it , in that point of view , replied Clifford . 
An almost spiritual medium , like the electric telegraph , should be consecrated to high , deep , joyful , and holy missions . 
Positively , no ! answered Clifford . 
It puts them too miserably at disadvantage . 
I can't see through you ! No , I'll be bound you can't ! cried Clifford , laughing . 
And yet , my dear sir , I am as transparent as the water of Maule's well ! But come , Hepzibah ! We have flown far enough for once . 
Taking advantage of the brief pause , Clifford left the car , and drew Hepzibah along with him . 
The world had fled away from these two wanderers . 
They gazed drearily about them . 
There were the relics of a wood pile , indeed , near the door , but with grass sprouting up among the chips and scattered logs . 
The small rain drops came down aslant the wind was not turbulent , but sullen , and full of chilly moisture . 
Clifford shivered from head to foot . 
A powerful excitement had given him energy and vivacity . 
Its operation over , he forthwith began to sink . 
You must take the lead now , Hepzibah ! murmured he , with a torpid and reluctant utterance . 
Do with me as you will ! She knelt down upon the platform where they were standing and lifted her clasped hands to the sky . 
The Judge has not shifted his position for a long while now . 
He holds his watch in his left hand , but clutched in such a manner that you cannot see the dial plate . 
You hear the ticking of his watch his breath you do not hear . 
A most refreshing slumber , doubtless ! And yet , the Judge cannot be asleep . 
A cautious man is proverbially said to sleep with one eye open . 
But not with both for this were heedlessness ! No , no ! Judge Pyncheon cannot be asleep . 
The oaken chair , to be sure , may tempt him with its roominess . 
A bigger man might find ample accommodation in it . 
Yes ! in a score of drawing rooms he would be more than welcome . 
For the Judge is a prosperous man . 
Let him go thither , and loll at ease upon his moneybags ! He has lounged long enough in the old chair ! This was to have been such a busy day . 
In the first place , the interview with Clifford . 
Half an hour ? Why , Judge , it is already two hours , by your own undeviatingly accurate chronometer . 
The wrinkled note shaver will have taken his railroad trip in vain . 
Possibly , indeed , the sale may have been postponed till fairer weather . 
The one heretofore his favorite stumbled , this very morning , on the road to town , and must be at once discarded . 
Judge Pyncheon's neck is too precious to be risked on such a contingency as a stumbling steed . 
Yes , buy them , by all means and may the peaches be luscious in your mouth , Judge Pyncheon ! After this comes something more important . 
A committee of his political party has besought him for a hundred or two of dollars , in addition to his previous disbursements , towards carrying on the fall campaign . 
What next ? A decayed widow , whose husband was Judge Pyncheon's early friend , has laid her case of destitution before him , in a very moving letter . 
She and her fair daughter have scarcely bread to eat . 
He partly intends to call on her to day , perhaps so perhaps not , accordingly as he may happen to have leisure , and a small bank note . 
, another business , then , was to consult his family physician . 
About what , for Heaven's sake ? Why , it is rather difficult to describe the symptoms . 
The Judge will never need it . 
No public dinner this , however . 
Nothing in the way of French cookery , but an excellent dinner , nevertheless . 
The delicacies of the season , in short , and flavored by a brand of old Madeira which has been the pride of many seasons . 
has made him such a laggard at this momentous dinner . 
It would all but revive a dead man ! Would you like to sip it now , Judge Pyncheon ? Alas , this dinner . 
But ambition is a talisman more powerful than witchcraft . 
These gentlemen need you be told it ? have assembled , not without purpose , from every quarter of the State . 
They meet to decide upon their candidate . 
This little knot of subtle schemers will control the convention , and , through it , dictate to the party . 
The Judge , had he done nothing else , would have achieved wonders with his knife and fork . 
Persons of his large sensual endowments must claim indulgence , at their feeding time . 
Were our friend now to stalk in among them , with that wide open stare , at once wild and stolid , his ungenial presence would be apt to change their cheer . 
Neither would it be seemly in Judge Pyncheon , generally so scrupulous in his attire , to show himself at a dinner table with that crimson stain upon his shirt bosom . 
He must toast his slippers a long while , in order to get rid of the chilliness which the air of this vile old house has sent curdling through his veins . 
Up , therefore , Judge Pyncheon , up ! You have lost a day . 
But to morrow will be here anon . 
Will you rise , betimes , and make the most of it ? To morrow . 
To morrow ! To morrow . 
We , that are alive , may rise betimes to morrow . 
As for him that has died to day , his morrow will be the resurrection morn . 
Meanwhile the twilight is glooming upward out of the corners of the room . 
The gloom has not entered from without it has brooded here all day , and now , taking its own inevitable time , will possess itself of everything . 
The Judge's face , indeed , rigid and singularly white , refuses to melt into this universal solvent . 
Fainter and fainter grows the light . 
It is as if another double handful of darkness had been scattered through the air . 
Now it is no longer gray , but sable . 
There is still a faint appearance at the window . 
The features are all gone there is only the paleness of them left . 
It is the ticking of the Judge's watch , which , ever since Hepzibah left the room in search of Clifford , he has been holding in his hand . 
But , listen ! That puff of the breeze was louder . 
it , had a tone unlike the dreary and sullen one which has bemoaned itself , and afflicted all mankind with miserable sympathy , for five days past . 
, partly in complaint at the rude wind , but rather , as befits their century and a half of hostile intimacy , in tough defiance . 
A rumbling kind of a bluster roars behind the fire board . 
A door has slammed above stairs . 
A window , perhaps , has been left open , or else is driven in by an unruly gust . 
The northwest wind has swept the sky clear . 
The window is distinctly seen . 
Oftener than any other object , these glimpses illuminate the Judge's face . 
But here comes more effectual light . 
They play over the Judge's figure and show that he has not stirred throughout the hours of darkness . 
They follow the shadows , in changeful sport , across his unchanging features . 
They gleam upon his watch . 
His grasp conceals the dial plate , but we know that the faithful hands have met for one of the city clocks tells midnight . 
A man of sturdy understanding , like Judge Pyncheon , cares no more for twelve o'clock at night than for the corresponding hour of noon . 
However just the parallel drawn , in some of the preceding pages , between his Puritan ancestor and himself , it fails in this point . 
The Pyncheon of two centuries ago , in common with most of his contemporaries , professed his full belief in spiritual ministrations , although reckoning them chiefly of a malignant character . 
The Pyncheon of to night , who sits in yonder arm chair , believes in no such nonsense . 
Such , at least , was his creed , some few hours since . 
In fact , these tales are too absurd to bristle even childhood's hair . 
Ghost stories are hardly to be treated seriously any longer . 
The family party of the defunct Pyncheons , we presume , goes off in this wise . 
He looks up at the portrait a thing of no substance , gazing at its own painted image ! All is safe . 
The picture is still there . 
The purpose of his brain has been kept sacred thus long after the man himself has sprouted up in graveyard grass . 
See ! he lifts his ineffectual hand , and tries the frame . 
Something has strangely vexed the ancestor ! With a grim shake of the head , he turns away . 
Here come other Pyncheons , the whole tribe , in their half a dozen generations , jostling and elbowing one another , to reach the picture . 
All try the picture frame . 
Indulging our fancy in this freak , we have partly lost the power of restraint and guidance . 
We distinguish an unlooked for figure in our visionary scene . 
The fantastic scene just hinted at must by no means be considered as forming an actual portion of our story . 
We needed relief , moreover , from our too long and exclusive contemplation of that figure in the chair . 
This wild wind , too , has tossed our thoughts into strange confusion , but without tearing them away from their one determined centre . 
Yonder leaden Judge sits immovably upon our soul . 
Ha ! what has startled the nimble little mouse ? It is the visage of grimalkin , outside of the window , where he appears to have posted himself for a deliberate watch . 
This grimalkin has a very ugly look . 
They are paler now the shadows look gray , not black . 
The boisterous wind is hushed . 
But the great world clock of Time still keeps its beat . 
The dreary night for , oh , how dreary seems its haunted waste , behind us ! gives place to a fresh , transparent , cloudless morn . 
Rise up , Judge Pyncheon ! The morning sunshine glimmers through the foliage , and , beautiful and holy as it is , shuns not to kindle up your face . 
We breathe more freely , emerging from Judge Pyncheon's presence into the street before the Seven Gables . 
XIX Alice's Posies UNCLE VENNER , trundling a wheelbarrow , was the earliest person stirring in the neighborhood the day after the storm . 
Nature made sweet amends , that morning , for the five unkindly days which had preceded it . 
Every object was agreeable , whether to be gazed at in the breadth , or examined more minutely . 
Vegetable productions , of whatever kind , seemed more than negatively happy , in the juicy warmth and abundance of their life . 
This aged tree appeared to have suffered nothing from the gale . 
It was like the golden branch that gained AEneas and the Sibyl admittance into Hades . 
This one mystic branch hung down before the main entrance of the Seven Gables , so nigh the ground that any passer by might have stood on tiptoe and plucked it off . 
Presented at the door , it would have been a symbol of his right to enter , and be made acquainted with all the secrets of the house . 
Its windows gleamed cheerfully in the slanting sunlight . 
One object , above all others , would take root in the imaginative observer's memory . 
The old people used to give them the name of Alice's Posies , in remembrance of fair Alice Pyncheon , who was believed to have brought their seeds from Italy . 
They were flaunting in rich beauty and full bloom to day , and seemed , as it were , a mystic expression that something within the house was consummated . 
It was but little after sunrise , when Uncle Venner made his appearance , as aforesaid , impelling a wheelbarrow along the street . 
I never knew Miss Hepzibah so forgetful before , said the patriarch to himself . 
She must have had a dinner yesterday , no question of that ! She always has one , nowadays . 
So , I'll come back at noon . 
With these reflections , the old man was shutting the gate of the little back yard . 
Good morning , Uncle Venner ! said the daguerreotypist , leaning out of the window . 
Do you hear nobody stirring ? Not a soul , said the man of patches . 
'Tis barely half an hour past sunrise , yet . 
But it is very quiet now . 
Yes , Miss Hepzibah will be apt to over sleep herself , after being disturbed , all night , with the racket , said Uncle Venner . 
At what hour ? inquired Holgrave . 
Oh , along in the forenoon , said the old man . 
Well , well ! I must go my rounds , and so must my wheelbarrow . 
But I'll be back here at dinner time for my pig likes a dinner as well as a breakfast . 
No meal time , and no sort of victuals , ever seems to come amiss to my pig . 
I have heard , said the daguerreotypist , as he drew in his head , that the water of Maule's well suits those flowers best . 
Here the conversation ceased , and Uncle Venner went on his way . 
After a while , there came a fat woman , making prodigious speed , and stumbling as she ran up the steps of the shop door . 
She tried the shop door it was fast . 
She tried it again , with so angry a jar that the bell tinkled angrily back at her . 
The deuce take Old Maid Pyncheon ! muttered the irascible housewife . 
She opened the window , and addressed the impatient applicant . 
You'll find nobody there , Mrs. Gubbins . 
But I must and will find somebody here ! cried Mrs. Gubbins , inflicting another outrage on the bell . 
She , and her brother too , have both gone to their cousin's , Judge Pyncheon's at his country seat . 
There's not a soul in the house , but that young daguerreotype man that sleeps in the north gable . 
I saw old Hepzibah and Clifford go away yesterday and a queer couple of ducks they were , paddling through the mud puddles ! They're gone , I'll assure you . 
And how do you know they're gone to the Judge's ? asked Mrs. Gubbins . 
He's a rich man and there's been a quarrel between him and Hepzibah this many a day , because he won't give her a living . 
That's the main reason of her setting up a cent shop . 
I know that well enough , said the neighbor . 
But they're gone , that's one thing certain . 
Mrs. Gubbins took her departure , still brimming over with hot wrath against the absent Hepzibah . 
For another half hour , or , perhaps , considerably more , there was almost as much quiet on the outside of the house as within . 
But it would not open . 
He had , doubtless , set his heart upon an elephant or , possibly , with Hamlet , he meant to eat a crocodile . 
Holding by the door handle , he peeped through a crevice of the curtain , and saw that the inner door , communicating with the passage towards the parlor , was closed . 
A man one of two who happened to be passing by caught the urchin's arm . 
What's the trouble , old gentleman ? he asked . 
I want old Hepzibah , or Phoebe , or any of them ! answered Ned , sobbing . 
They won't open the door and I can't get my elephant ! Go to school , you little scamp ! said the man . 
There's another cent shop round the corner . 
And one of the Judge's hired men has been in , this morning , to make inquiry about him . 
He's a kind of person , they say , that seldom breaks his habits , or stays out o' nights . 
Oh , he'll turn up safe enough ! said Dixey . 
And as for Old Maid Pyncheon , take my word for it , she has run in debt , and gone off from her creditors . 
I foretold , you remember , the first morning she set up shop , that her devilish scowl would frighten away customers . 
They couldn't stand it ! I never thought she'd make it go , remarked his friend . 
This business of cent shops is overdone among the women folks . 
My wife tried it , and lost five dollars on her outlay ! Poor business ! said Dixey , shaking his head . 
Poor business ! In the course of the morning , there were various other attempts to open a communication with the supposed inhabitants of this silent and impenetrable mansion . 
It's a nice article , and I know the old lady would jump at it , said he to himself . 
However it might have happened , it was the fact . 
Through the passage way there was a dark vista into the lighter but still obscure interior of the parlor . 
The pleasant face of Phoebe and doubtless , too , the liberal recompense which she had flung him still dwelt in his remembrance . 
His expressive features kindled up , as he recognized the spot where this trifling incident of his erratic life had chanced . 
, stationed himself on the doorstep of the main entrance , and , opening his show box , began to play . 
The throng of children stood near some on the sidewalk some within the yard two or three establishing themselves on the very door step and one squatting on the threshold . 
Meanwhile , the locust kept singing in the great old Pyncheon Elm . 
I don't hear anybody in the house , said one of the children to another . 
The monkey won't pick up anything here . 
There is somebody at home , affirmed the urchin on the threshold . 
Therefore , the Italian boy would not be discouraged by the heavy silence with which the old house seemed resolute to clog the vivacity of his instrument . 
He persisted in his melodious appeals he still looked upward , trusting that his dark , alien countenance would soon be brightened by Phoebe's sunny aspect . 
Neither could he be willing to depart without again beholding Clifford , whose sensibility , like Phoebe's smile , had talked a kind of heart's language to the foreigner . 
He repeated all his music over and over again , until his auditors were getting weary . 
So were the little wooden people in his show box , and the monkey most of all . 
There was no response , save the singing of the locust . 
No children live in this house , said a schoolboy , at last . 
Nobody lives here but an old maid and an old man . 
Let him play as he likes ! If there's nobody to pay him , that's his own lookout ! Once more , however , the Italian ran over his round of melodies . 
This contrast , or intermingling of tragedy with mirth , happens daily , hourly , momently . 
Before the conclusion of the Italian's performance , a couple of men happened to be passing , On their way to dinner . 
They don't feel musical to day . 
It is reported all over town that Judge Pyncheon , who owns the house , has been murdered and the city marshal is going to look into the matter . 
He picked it up , and perceiving something written in pencil , gave it to the man to read . 
It formed a prospective epitome of the day's history only that affairs had not turned out altogether in accordance with the programme . 
The card must have been lost from the Judge's vest pocket in his preliminary attempt to gain access by the main entrance of the house . 
Though well soaked with rain , it was still partially legible . 
Look here Dixey ! cried the man . 
This has something to do with Judge Pyncheon . 
See ! here's his name printed on it and here , I suppose , is some of his handwriting . 
Let's go to the city marshal with it ! said Dixey . 
It may give him just the clew he wants . 
It seems like a sin to he the first to speak of such a thing . 
But I think , with you , that we had better go to the city marshal . 
Yes , yes ! said Dixey . 
Well ! I always said there was something devilish in that woman's scowl ! The men wheeled about , accordingly , and retraced their steps up the street . 
The Italian , also , made the best of his way off , with a parting glance up at the arched window . 
Their susceptible nerves took an indefinite alarm from what they had overheard . 
Looking back at the grotesque peaks and shadowy angles of the old mansion , they fancied a gloom diffused about it which no brightness of the sunshine could dispel . 
An imaginary Hepzibah scowled and shook her finger at them , from several windows at the same moment . 
he had always been a horror to these small people stood behind the unreal Hepzibah , making awful gestures , in a faded dressing gown . 
Children are even more apt , if possible , than grown people , to catch the contagion of a panic terror . 
It could not have been more than half an hour after the disappearance of the Italian boy , with his unseasonable melodies , when a cab drove down the street . 
Neither had she forfeited her proper gift of making things look real , rather than fantastic , within her sphere . 
Yet we feel it to be a questionable venture , even for Phoebe , at this juncture , to cross the threshold of the Seven Gables . 
Phoebe first tried the shop door . 
It did not yield to her hand and the white curtain , drawn across the window which formed the upper section of the door , struck her quick perceptive faculty as something unusual . 
Without making another effort to enter here , she betook herself to the great portal , under the arched window . 
Finding it fastened , she knocked . 
A reverberation came from the emptiness within . 
But so dead a silence ensued upon this imaginary sound , that she began to question whether she might not have mistaken the house , familiar as she thought herself with its exterior . 
Her notice was now attracted by a child's voice , at some distance . 
It appeared to call her name . 
No , no , Phoebe ! he screamed . 
Still , she felt the more , for this incident , how unaccountably silent and impenetrable the house had become . 
The arbor was vacant , and its floor , table , and circular bench were still damp , and bestrewn with twigs and the disarray of the past storm . 
Maule's well had overflowed its stone border , and made a pool of formidable breadth in that corner of the garden . 
The girl knew that her two relatives were capable of far greater oddities than that of shutting themselves up in their old house , as they appeared now to have done . 
Nevertheless , with indistinct misgivings of something amiss , and apprehensions to which she could not give shape , she approached the door that formed the customary communication between the house and garden . 
It was secured within , like the two which she had already tried . 
Without hesitation , therefore , she stepped across the threshold , and had no sooner entered than the door closed behind her . 
She was not at first aware by whom she had been admitted . 
She felt herself drawn along , not towards the parlor , but into a large and unoccupied apartment , which had formerly been the grand reception room of the Seven Gables . 
The subtile , intuitive communication , or , rather , the vague and formless impression of something to be told , had made her yield unresistingly to his impulse . 
The artist looked paler than ordinary there was a thoughtful and severe contraction of his forehead , tracing a deep , vertical line between the eyebrows . 
And yet , as he felt the necessity of responding to her look of inquiry , the smile disappeared . 
I ought not to rejoice that you have come , Phoebe , said he . 
We meet at a strange moment ! What has happened ! she exclaimed . 
Why is the house so deserted ? Where are Hepzibah and Clifford ? Gone ! I cannot imagine where they are ! answered Holgrave . 
We are alone in the house ! Hepzibah and Clifford gone ? cried Phoebe . 
It is as I have told you . 
They are gone , and I know not whither . 
A terrible event has , indeed happened , but not to them , nor , as I undoubtingly believe , through any agency of theirs . 
You have wonderful poise , and a faculty which , when tested , will prove itself capable of dealing with matters that fall far out of the ordinary rule . 
Oh , no , I am very weak ! replied Phoebe , trembling . 
But tell me what has happened ! You are strong ! persisted Holgrave . 
You must be both strong and wise for I am all astray , and need your counsel . 
It may be you can suggest the one right thing to do ! Tell me ! tell me ! said Phoebe , all in a tremble . 
It oppresses , it terrifies me , this mystery ! Anything else I can bear ! The artist hesitated . 
Yet it could not be concealed from her she must needs know it . 
What has this to do with Hepzibah and Clifford ? asked Phoebe , with impatient surprise that Holgrave should so trifle with her at such a moment . 
I had just finished it when I heard you at the door . 
This is death ! shuddered Phoebe , turning very pale . 
Judge Pyncheon dead ! Such as there represented , said Holgrave , he sits in the next room . 
The Judge is dead , and Clifford and Hepzibah have vanished ! I know no more . 
On returning to my solitary chamber , last evening , I noticed no light , either in the parlor , or Hepzibah's room , or Clifford's no stir nor footstep about the house . 
This morning , there was the same death like quiet . 
From my window , I overheard the testimony of a neighbor , that your relatives were seen leaving the house in the midst of yesterday's storm . 
A rumor reached me , too , of Judge Pyncheon being missed . 
Even in her agitation , Phoebe could not help remarking the calmness of Holgrave's demeanor . 
Why have you not thrown open the doors , and called in witnesses ? inquired she with a painful shudder . 
It is terrible to be here alone ! But Clifford ! suggested the artist . 
Clifford and Hepzibah ! We must consider what is best to be done in their behalf . 
It is a wretched fatality that they should have disappeared ! Their flight will throw the worst coloring over this event of which it is susceptible . 
As I view it , it would have gone far towards obliterating the black stain on Clifford's character . 
Old Maule's prophecy was probably founded on a knowledge of this physical predisposition in the Pyncheon race . 
Now , there is a minute and almost exact similarity in the appearances connected with the death that occurred yesterday and those recorded of the death of Clifford's uncle thirty years ago . 
Whence came those circumstances ? exclaimed Phoebe . 
Could we but bring him back before the discovery of the Judge's death , the evil might be rectified , We must not hide this thing a moment longer ! said Phoebe . 
It is dreadful to keep it so closely in our hearts . 
God will make it manifest ! Let us throw open the doors , and call all the neighborhood to see the truth ! You are right , Phoebe , rejoined Holgrave . 
Neither was he in haste , like her , to betake himself within the precincts of common life . 
The image of awful Death , which filled the house , held them united by his stiffened grasp . 
These influences hastened the development of emotions that might not otherwise have flowered so . 
Possibly , indeed , it had been Holgrave's purpose to let them die in their undeveloped germs . 
Why do we delay so ? asked Phoebe . 
This secret takes away my breath ! Let us throw open the doors ! In all our lives there can never come another moment like this ! said Holgrave . 
The sense of it took away my youth . 
It must not pass without the spoken word . 
I love you ! How can you love a simple girl like me ? asked Phoebe , compelled by his earnestness to speak . 
You have many , many thoughts , with which I should try in vain to sympathize . 
And I , I , too , I have tendencies with which you would sympathize as little . 
But I have not scope enough to make you happy . 
You are my only possibility of happiness ! answered Holgrave . 
You will lead me out of my own quiet path . 
You will make me strive to follow you where it is pathless . 
It is not my nature . 
I shall sink down and perish ! Ah , Phoebe ! exclaimed Holgrave , with almost a sigh , and a smile that was burdened with thought . 
It will be far otherwise than as you forebode . 
The world owes all its onward impulses to men ill at ease . 
The happy man inevitably confines himself within ancient limits . 
Your poise will be more powerful than any oscillating tendency of mine . 
I would not have it so ! said Phoebe earnestly . 
Do you love me ? asked Holgrave . 
If we love one another , the moment has room for nothing more . 
Let us pause upon it , and be satisfied . 
Do you love me , Phoebe ? You look into my heart , said she , letting her eyes drop . 
The bliss which makes all things true , beautiful , and holy shone around this youth and maiden . 
They were conscious of nothing sad nor old . 
They transfigured the earth , and made it Eden again , and themselves the two first dwellers in it . 
The dead man , so close beside them , was forgotten . 
At such a crisis , there is no death for immortality is revealed anew , and embraces everything in its hallowed atmosphere . 
But how soon the heavy earth dream settled down again ! Hark ! whispered Phoebe . 
Somebody is at the street door ! Now let us meet the world ! said Holgrave . 
No doubt , the rumor of Judge Pyncheon's visit to this house , and the flight of Hepzibah and Clifford , is about to lead to the investigation of the premises . 
We have no way but to meet it . 
Let us open the door at once . 
It was feeble , as of persons either weak or weary there was the mingled murmur of two voices , familiar to both the listeners . 
Can it be ? whispered Holgrave . 
It is they ! answered Phoebe . 
Thank God ! thank God ! And then , as if in sympathy with Phoebe's whispered ejaculation , they heard Hepzibah's voice more distinctly . 
Thank God , my brother , we are at home ! Well ! Yes ! thank God ! responded Clifford . 
A dreary home , Hepzibah ! But you have done well to bring me hither ! Stay ! That parlor door is open . 
On beholding her , Hepzibah burst into tears . 
With all her might , she had staggered onward beneath the burden of grief and responsibility , until now that it was safe to fling it down . 
Indeed , she had not energy to fling it down , but had ceased to uphold it , and suffered it to press her to the earth . 
Clifford appeared the stronger of the two . 
I thought of you both , as we came down the street , and beheld Alice's Posies in full bloom . 
And so the flower of Eden has bloomed , likewise , in this old , darksome house to day . 
which had hardly quite subsided in a fortnight . 
In most other cases and contingencies , the individual is present among us , mixed up with the daily revolution of affairs , and affording a definite point for observation . 
Death is so genuine a fact that it excludes falsehood , or betrays its emptiness it is a touchstone that proves the gold , and dishonors the baser metal . 
The medical opinion with regard to his own recent and regretted decease had almost entirely obviated the idea that a murder was committed in the former case . 
Yet , as the record showed , there were circumstances irrefragably indicating that some person had gained access to old Jaffrey Pyncheon's private apartments , at or near the moment of his death . 
Whencesoever originating , there now arose a theory that undertook so to account for these circumstances as to exclude the idea of Clifford's agency . 
According to this version of the story , Judge Pyncheon , exemplary as we have portrayed him in our narrative , was , in his youth , an apparently irreclaimable scapegrace . 
This course of conduct had alienated the old bachelor's affection , once strongly fixed upon him . 
While thus criminally occupied , he was startled by the opening of the chamber door . 
But before retiring , Jaffrey bethought himself of the evidence , in these ransacked drawers , that some one had visited the chamber with sinister purposes . 
Suspicion , unless averted , might fix upon the real offender . 
It is not probable , be it said , that he acted with any set purpose of involving Clifford in a charge of murder . 
Knowing that his uncle did not die by violence , it may not have occurred to him , in the hurry of the crisis , that such an inference might be drawn . 
But , when the affair took this darker aspect , Jaffrey's previous steps had already pledged him to those which remained . 
This is just the sort of guilt that a man of eminent respectability finds it easiest to dispose of . 
It was suffered to fade out of sight or be reckoned a venial matter , in the Honorable Judge Pyncheon's long subsequent survey of his own life . 
He shuffled it aside , among the forgotten and forgiven frailties of his youth , and seldom thought of it again . 
We leave the Judge to his repose . 
He could not be styled fortunate at the hour of death . 
Unknowingly , he was a childless man , while striving to add more wealth to his only child's inheritance . 
What he needed was the love of a very few not the admiration , or even the respect , of the unknown many . 
After such wrong as he had suffered , there is no reparation . 
that no great mistake , whether acted or endured , in our mortal sphere , is ever really set right . 
Time , the continual vicissitude of circumstances , and the invariable inopportunity of death , render it impossible . 
If , after long lapse of years , the right seems to be in our power , we find no niche to set it in . 
The better remedy is for the sufferer to pass on , and leave what he once thought his irreparable ruin far behind him . 
The shock of Judge Pyncheon's death had a permanently invigorating and ultimately beneficial effect on Clifford . 
That strong and ponderous man had been Clifford's nightmare . 
There was no free breath to be drawn , within the sphere of so malevolent an influence . 
The first effect of freedom , as we have witnessed in Clifford's aimless flight , was a tremulous exhilaration . 
Subsiding from it , he did not sink into his former intellectual apathy . 
He never , it is true , attained to nearly the full measure of what might have been his faculties . 
On the day set for their departure , the principal personages of our story , including good Uncle Venner , were assembled in the parlor . 
The country house is certainly a very fine one , so far as the plan goes , observed Holgrave , as the party were discussing their future arrangements . 
You find me a conservative already ! Little did I think ever to become one . 
That picture ! said Clifford , seeming to shrink from its stern glance . 
Whenever I look at it , there is an old dreamy recollection haunting me , but keeping just beyond the grasp of my mind . 
But those old matters are so dim with me , nowadays ! What could this dream have been ? Perhaps I can recall it , answered Holgrave . 
See ! There are a hundred chances to one that no person , unacquainted with the secret , would ever touch this spring . 
A secret spring ! cried Clifford . 
Ah , I remember Now ! I did discover it , one summer afternoon , when I was idling and dreaming about the house , long , long ago . 
But the mystery escapes me . 
The artist put his finger on the contrivance to which he had referred . 
In former days , the effect would probably have been to cause the picture to start forward . 
This is the very parchment , the attempt to recover which cost the beautiful Alice Pyncheon her happiness and life , said the artist , alluding to his legend . 
It is what the Pyncheons sought in vain , while it was valuable and now that they find the treasure , it has long been worthless . 
Poor Cousin Jaffrey ! This is what deceived him , exclaimed Hepzibah . 
When they were young together , Clifford probably made a kind of fairy tale of this discovery . 
He was always dreaming hither and thither about the house , and lighting up its dark corners with beautiful stories . 
And poor Jaffrey , who took hold of everything as if it were real , thought my brother had found out his uncle's wealth . 
that , in this long drama of wrong and retribution , I represent the old wizard , and am probably as much a wizard as ever he was . 
Thus they bartered their eastern territory for Maule's garden ground . 
I want you always to be within five minutes , saunter of my chair . 
proceeded to take their places . 
Several children were drawn to the spot by so unusual a spectacle as the barouche and pair of gray horses . 
Two men were passing , just as the barouche drove off . 
Well , Dixey , said one of them , what do you think of this ? My wife kept a cent shop three months , and lost five dollars on her outlay . 
The Pyncheon Elm , moreover , with what foliage the September gale had spared to it , whispered unintelligible prophecies . 
