RODERICK HUDSON by HENRY JAMES CONTENTS I. Rowland II . 
Mary Garland X. The Cavaliere XI . 
He was urged by the reflection that an affectionate farewell might help to exonerate him from the charge of neglect frequently preferred by this lady . 
and third , she lived at Northampton , Massachusetts . 
Mallet's compassion was really wasted , because Cecilia was a very clever woman , and a most skillful counter plotter to adversity . 
She had made herself a charming home , her economies were not obtrusive , and there was always a cheerful flutter in the folds of her crape . 
It was the consciousness of all this that puzzled Mallet whenever he felt tempted to put in his oar . 
He had money and he had time , but he never could decide just how to place these gifts gracefully at Cecilia's service . 
He no longer felt like marrying her in these eight years that fancy had died a natural death . 
And yet her extreme cleverness seemed somehow to make charity difficult and patronage impossible . 
Rowland remembered that , for him , she was all smiles , and suspected , awkwardly , that he ministered not a little to her sense of the irony of things . 
And in truth , with his means , his leisure , and his opportunities , what had he done ? He had an unaffected suspicion of his uselessness . 
Cecilia , meanwhile , cut out her own dresses , and was personally giving her little girl the education of a princess . 
Cecilia met him in the early dusk at the gate of her little garden , amid a studied combination of floral perfumes . 
Cecilia was always gracious , but this evening she was almost joyous . 
She was in a happy mood , and Mallet imagined there was a private reason for it a reason quite distinct from her pleasure in receiving her honored kinsman . 
The next day he flattered himself he was on the way to discover it . 
Why , very much what I do here , he answered . 
No , answered the widow , you know what I think of you . 
You have a particular aptitude for beneficence . 
You have it in the first place in your character . 
You are a benevolent person . 
Ask Bessie if you don't hold her more gently and comfortably than any of her other admirers . 
He holds me more comfortably than Mr. Hudson , Bessie declared , roundly . 
Rowland , not knowing Mr. Hudson , could but half appreciate the eulogy , and Cecilia went on to develop her idea . 
Your circumstances , in the second place , suggest the idea of social usefulness . 
You are intelligent , you are well informed , and your charity , if one may call it charity , would be discriminating . 
You are rich and unoccupied , so that it might be abundant . 
Therefore , I say , you are a person to do something on a large scale . 
Bestir yourself , dear Rowland , or we may be taught to think that virtue herself is setting a bad example . 
I am holding myself ready for inspiration . 
I am waiting till something takes my fancy irresistibly . 
If inspiration comes at forty , it will be a hundred pities to have tied up my money bag at thirty . 
Well , I give you till forty , said Cecilia . 
It 's only a word to the wise , a notification that you are expected not to run your course without having done something handsome for your fellow men . 
Nine o'clock sounded , and Bessie , with each stroke , courted a closer embrace . 
But a single winged word from her mother overleaped her successive intrenchments . 
She turned and kissed her cousin , and deposited an irrepressible tear on his moustache . 
Then she went and said her prayers to her mother it was evident she was being admirably brought up . 
Rowland , with the permission of his hostess , lighted a cigar and puffed it awhile in silence . 
Cecilia's interest in his career seemed very agreeable . 
Now , in the sweet smelling starlight , he felt gently wooed to egotism . 
There was a project connected with his going abroad which it was on his tongue's end to communicate . 
It had no relation to hospitals or dormitories , and yet it would have sounded very generous . 
But it was not because it would have sounded generous that poor Mallet at last puffed it away in the fumes of his cigar . 
Useful though it might be , it expressed most imperfectly the young man's own personal conception of usefulness . 
He was extremely fond of all the arts , and he had an almost passionate enjoyment of pictures . 
He had seen many , and he judged them sagaciously . 
The only thing is , he said , that there I shall seem to be doing something . 
I shall be better entertained , and shall be therefore , I suppose , in a better humor with life . 
You may say that that is just the humor a useless man should keep out of . 
I did a good many things when I was in Europe before , but I did not spend a winter in Rome . 
Every one assures me that this is a peculiar refinement of bliss most people talk about Rome in the same way . 
It is still lotus eating , only you sit down at table , and the lotuses are served up on rococo china . 
I am clever enough to want more than I 've got . 
I am tired of myself , my own thoughts , my own affairs , my own eternal company . 
Unfortunately , I 've got no errand , and nobody will trust me with one . 
I want to care for something , or for some one . 
And I want to care with a certain ardor even , if you can believe it , with a certain passion . 
I can't just now feel ardent and passionate about a hospital or a dormitory . 
Of course I 've thought of that , and I assure you I hold myself ready . 
But , evidently , I 'm not inflammable . 
The household virtues are better represented . 
There are some excellent girls , and there are two or three very pretty ones . 
I will have them here , one by one , to tea , if you like . 
Cecilia was silent a moment and then , On the whole , she resumed , I don't think there are any worth asking . 
There are none so very pretty , none so very pleasing . 
Are you very sure ? asked the young man , rising and throwing away his cigar end . 
Upon my word , cried Cecilia , one would suppose I wished to keep you for myself . 
Of course I am sure ! But as the penalty of your insinuations , I shall invite the plainest and prosiest damsel that can be found , and leave you alone with her . 
Even against her , he said , I should be sorry to conclude until I had given her my respectful attention . 
was not quite so fanciful on Mallet's lips as it would have been on those of many another man as a rapid glance at his antecedents may help to make the reader perceive . 
His life had been a singular mixture of the rough and the smooth . 
He had sprung from a rigid Puritan stock , and had been brought up to think much more intently of the duties of this life than of its privileges and pleasures . 
His father was a chip of the primal Puritan block , a man with an icy smile and a stony frown . 
Mrs. Mallet had been a Miss Rowland , the daughter of a retired sea captain , once famous on the ships that sailed from Salem and Newburyport . 
Five months later his place at home knew him again , and made the acquaintance also of a handsome , blonde young woman , of redundant contours , speaking a foreign tongue . 
The foreign tongue proved , after much conflicting research , to be the idiom of Amsterdam , and the young woman , which was stranger still , to be Captain Rowland's wife . 
Mrs. Rowland , for so handsome a woman , proved a tranquil neighbor and an excellent housewife . 
Captain Rowland was a little bronzed and wizened man , with eccentric opinions . 
He especially desired the town library to be opened on Sundays , though , as he never entered it on week days , it was easy to turn the proposition into ridicule . 
If , therefore , Mrs. Mallet was a woman of an exquisite moral tone , it was not that she had inherited her temper from an ancestry with a turn for casuistry . 
Jonas Mallet , at the time of his marriage , was conducting with silent shrewdness a small , unpromising business . 
He was not a sentimental father , and the roughness I just now spoke of in Rowland's life dated from his early boyhood . 
Mr. Mallet , whenever he looked at his son , felt extreme compunction at having made a fortune . 
He remembered that the fruit had not dropped ripe from the tree into his own mouth , and determined it should be no fault of his if the boy was corrupted by luxury . 
Rowland , therefore , except for a good deal of expensive instruction in foreign tongues and abstruse sciences , received the education of a poor man's son . 
He was passive , pliable , frank , extremely slow at his books , and inordinately fond of trout fishing . 
When he was about fifteen , he achieved a momentous one . 
He ascertained that his mother was a saint . 
She had always been a very distinct presence in his life , but so ineffably gentle a one that his sense was fully opened to it only by the danger of losing her . 
Rowland spent his days at her side and felt before long as if he had made a new friend . 
Her marriage had been an immitigable error which she had spent her life in trying to look straight in the face . 
She cultivated from this time forward a little private plot of sentiment , and it was of this secluded precinct that , before her death , she gave her son the key . 
For three years he earned his living as regularly as the obscure functionary in fustian who swept the office . 
Mr. Mallet was consistent , but the perfection of his consistency was known only on his death . 
He left but a third of his property to his son , and devoted the remainder to various public institutions and local charities . 
There was a lively tussle , but he gained his case immediately after which he made , in another quarter , a donation of the contested sum . 
He cared nothing for the money , but he had felt an angry desire to protest against a destiny which seemed determined to be exclusively salutary . 
It seemed to him that he would bear a little spoiling . 
And yet he treated himself to a very modest quantity , and submitted without reserve to the great national discipline which began in . 
When the Civil War broke out he immediately obtained a commission , and did his duty for three long years as a citizen soldier . 
His duty was obscure , but he never lost a certain private satisfaction in remembering that on two or three occasions it had been performed with something of an ideal precision . 
He had disentangled himself from business , and after the war he felt a profound disinclination to tie the knot again . 
It often seemed to Mallet that he wholly lacked the prime requisite of a graceful flaneur the simple , sensuous , confident relish of pleasure . 
He had frequent fits of extreme melancholy , in which he declared that he was neither fish nor flesh nor good red herring . 
He was an awkward mixture of strong moral impulse and restless aesthetic curiosity , and yet he would have made a most ineffective reformer and a very indifferent artist . 
Oftenest , perhaps , he wished he were a vigorous young man of genius , without a penny . 
On the whole , he had an incorruptible modesty . 
She threw open a window and pointed to a statuette which occupied the place of honor among the ornaments of the room . 
Rowland looked at it a moment and then turned to her with an exclamation of surprise . 
She gave him a rapid glance , perceived that her statuette was of altogether exceptional merit , and then smiled , knowingly , as if this had long been an agreeable certainty . 
Who did it ? where did you get it ? Rowland demanded . 
Oh , said Cecilia , adjusting the light , it 's a little thing of Mr. Hudson's . 
And who the deuce is Mr. Hudson ? asked Rowland . 
But he was absorbed he lost her immediate reply . 
The statuette , in bronze , something less than two feet high , represented a naked youth drinking from a gourd . 
The attitude was perfectly simple . 
There was a loosened fillet of wild flowers about his head , and his eyes , under their drooped lids , looked straight into the cup . 
On the base was scratched the Greek word aa gD gi gc ga , Thirst . 
The figure might have been some beautiful youth of ancient fable , Hylas or Narcissus , Paris or Endymion . 
Its beauty was the beauty of natural movement nothing had been sought to be represented but the perfection of an attitude . 
This had been most attentively studied , and it was exquisitely rendered . 
Rowland demanded more light , dropped his head on this side and that , uttered vague exclamations . 
Hudson Hudson , he asked again who is Hudson ? A young man of this place , said Cecilia . 
A young man ? How old ? I suppose he is three or four and twenty . 
Of this place , you say of Northampton , Massachusetts ? He lives here , but he comes from Virginia . 
Is he a sculptor by profession ? He 's a law student . 
He has found something in Blackstone that I never did . 
He makes statues then simply for his pleasure ? Cecilia , with a smile , gave a little toss of her head . 
For mine ! I congratulate you , said Rowland . 
I wonder whether he could be induced to do anything for me ? This was a matter of friendship . 
I saw the figure when he had modeled it in clay , and of course greatly admired it . 
He said nothing at the time , but a week ago , on my birthday , he arrived in a buggy , with this . 
He had had it cast at the foundry at Chicopee I believe it 's a beautiful piece of bronze . 
He begged me to accept . 
Upon my word , said Mallet , he does things handsomely ! And he fell to admiring the statue again . 
A great friend ? and Cecilia hesitated . 
I regard him as a child ! Well , said Rowland , he 's a very clever child . 
Tell me something about him I should like to see him . 
Cecilia was obliged to go to her daughter's music lesson , but she assured Rowland that she would arrange for him a meeting with the young sculptor . 
He was a frequent visitor , and as he had not called for some days it was likely he would come that evening . 
Rowland , left alone , examined the statuette at his leisure , and returned more than once during the day to take another look at it . 
He discovered its weak points , but it wore well . 
It had the stamp of genius . 
Rowland envied the happy youth who , in a New England village , without aid or encouragement , without models or resources , had found it so easy to produce a lovely work . 
It was rather a nod than a bow , and indicated either that he was an old friend , or that he was scantily versed in the usual social forms . 
I 'm dripping wet ! he said , without ceremony . 
You walk too fast , said Cecilia . 
You do everything too fast . 
I know it , I know it ! he cried , passing his hand through his abundant dark hair and making it stand out in a picturesque shock . 
I can't be slow if I try . 
There 's something inside of me that drives me . 
A restless fiend ! Cecilia gave a light laugh , and Rowland leaned forward in his hammock . 
He had placed himself in it at Bessie's request , and was playing that he was her baby and that she was rocking him to sleep . 
She sat beside him , swinging the hammock to and fro , and singing a lullaby . 
When he raised himself she pushed him back and said that the baby must finish its nap . 
But I want to see the gentleman with the fiend inside of him , said Rowland . 
What is a fiend ? Bessie demanded . 
It 's only Mr. Hudson . 
Very well , I want to see him . 
Oh , never mind him ! said Bessie , with the brevity of contempt . 
You speak as if you did n't like him . 
I don't ! Bessie affirmed , and put Rowland to bed again . 
The hammock was swung at the end of the veranda , in the thickest shade of the vines , and this fragment of dialogue had passed unnoticed . 
Rowland submitted a while longer to be cradled , and contented himself with listening to Mr. Hudson's voice . 
It was a soft and not altogether masculine organ , and was pitched on this occasion in a somewhat plaintive and pettish key . 
Won't you have a cup of tea ? Cecilia asked . 
Perhaps that will restore your equanimity . 
Aye , by keeping me awake all night ! said Hudson . 
At the best , it 's hard enough to go down to the office . 
With my nerves set on edge by a sleepless night , I should perforce stay at home and be brutal to my poor mother . 
Your mother is well , I hope . 
Oh , she 's as usual . 
And Miss Garland ? She 's as usual , too . 
Every one , everything , is as usual . 
Nothing ever happens , in this benighted town . 
I beg your pardon things do happen , sometimes , said Cecilia . 
Here is a dear cousin of mine arrived on purpose to congratulate you on your statuette . 
And she called to Rowland to come and be introduced to Mr. Hudson . 
The young man sprang up with alacrity , and Rowland , coming forward to shake hands , had a good look at him in the light projected from the parlor window . 
Something seemed to shine out of Hudson's face as a warning against a compliment of the idle , unpondered sort . 
Your statuette seems to me very good , Rowland said gravely . 
It has given me extreme pleasure . 
And my cousin knows what is good , said Cecilia . 
A connoisseur ? he cried , laughing . 
He 's the first I 've ever seen ! Let me see what they look like and he drew Rowland nearer to the light . 
Have they all such good heads as that ? I should like to model yours . 
Pray do , said Cecilia . 
It will keep him a while . 
He is running off to Europe . 
Ah , to Europe ! Hudson exclaimed with a melancholy cadence , as they sat down . 
Happy man ! But the note seemed to Rowland to be struck rather at random , for he perceived no echo of it in the boyish garrulity of his later talk . 
Hudson was a tall , slender young fellow , with a singularly mobile and intelligent face . 
Rowland was struck at first only with its responsive vivacity , but in a short time he perceived it was remarkably handsome . 
The features were admirably chiseled and finished , and a frank smile played over them as gracefully as a breeze among flowers . 
The fault of the young man's whole structure was an excessive want of breadth . 
The forehead , though it was high and rounded , was narrow the jaw and the shoulders were narrow and the result was an air of insufficient physical substance . 
But Mallet afterwards learned that this fair , slim youth could draw indefinitely upon a mysterious fund of nervous force , which outlasted and outwearied the endurance of many a sturdier temperament . 
There was to Rowland's sympathetic sense a slightly pitiful disparity between the young sculptor's delicate countenance and the shabby gentility of his costume . 
He was dressed for a visit a visit to a pretty woman . 
He evidently had a natural relish for brilliant accessories , and appropriated what came to his hand . 
This was visible in his talk , which abounded in the florid and sonorous . 
He liked words with color in them . 
She perfectly succeeded , and Hudson rattled away for an hour with a volubility in which boyish unconsciousness and manly shrewdness were singularly combined . 
He gave his opinion on twenty topics , he opened up an endless budget of local gossip , he described his repulsive routine at the office of Messrs . 
He had looked at the straining oarsmen and the swaying crowd with the eye of the sculptor . 
Rowland was a good deal amused and not a little interested . 
Whenever Hudson uttered some peculiarly striking piece of youthful grandiloquence , Cecilia broke into a long , light , familiar laugh . 
What are you laughing at ? the young man then demanded . 
Have I said anything so ridiculous ? Go on , go on , Cecilia replied . 
You are too delicious ! Show Mr. Mallet how Mr. Striker read the Declaration of Independence . 
The sonorous twang , the see saw gestures , the odd pronunciation , were vividly depicted . 
But Cecilia's manner , and the young man's quick response , ruffled a little poor Rowland's paternal conscience . 
He wondered whether his cousin was not sacrificing the faculty of reverence in her clever protege to her need for amusement . 
Hudson made no serious rejoinder to Rowland's compliment on his statuette until he rose to go . 
Rowland wondered whether he had forgotten it , and supposed that the oversight was a sign of the natural self sufficiency of genius . 
But Hudson stood a moment before he said good night , twirled his sombrero , and hesitated for the first time . 
It is very good indeed . 
It is , as you say , essentially good . 
That is the beauty of it . 
Hudson's eyes glowed and expanded he looked at Rowland for some time in silence . 
I have a notion you really know , he said at last . 
But if you don't , it does n't much matter . 
My cousin asked me to day , said Cecilia , whether I supposed you knew yourself how good it is . 
Hudson stared , blushing a little . 
Perhaps not ! he cried . 
Very likely , said Mallet . 
I read in a book the other day that great talent in action in fact the book said genius is a kind of somnambulism . 
The artist performs great feats , in a dream . 
We must not wake him up , lest he should lose his balance . 
Oh , when he 's back in bed again ! Hudson answered with a laugh . 
Yes , call it a dream . 
It was a very happy one ! Tell me this , said Rowland . 
Did you mean anything by your young Water drinker ? Does he represent an idea ? Is he a symbol ? Hudson raised his eyebrows and gently scratched his head . 
Why , he 's youth , you know he 's innocence , he 's health , he 's strength , he 's curiosity . 
Yes , he 's a good many things . 
And is the cup also a symbol ? The cup is knowledge , pleasure , experience . 
Anything of that kind ! Well , he 's guzzling in earnest , said Rowland . 
Hudson gave a vigorous nod . 
Aye , poor fellow , he 's thirsty ! And on this he cried good night , and bounded down the garden path . 
Well , what do you make of him ? asked Cecilia , returning a short time afterwards from a visit of investigation as to the sufficiency of Bessie's bedclothes . 
I confess I like him , said Rowland . 
He 's very immature , but there 's stuff in him . 
He 's a strange being , said Cecilia , musingly . 
Who are his people ? what has been his education ? Rowland asked . 
He has had no education , beyond what he has picked up , with little trouble , for himself . 
His mother is a widow , of a Massachusetts country family , a little timid , tremulous woman , who is always on pins and needles about her son . 
She had some property herself , and married a Virginian gentleman of good estates . 
He turned out , I believe , a very licentious personage , and made great havoc in their fortune . 
Everything , or almost everything , melted away , including Mr. Hudson himself . 
This is literally true , for he drank himself to death . 
Ten years ago his wife was left a widow , with scanty means and a couple of growing boys . 
She paid her husband's debts as best she could , and came to establish herself here , where by the death of a charitable relative she had inherited an old fashioned ruinous house . 
Roderick , our friend , was her pride and joy , but Stephen , the elder , was her comfort and support . 
I remember him , later he was an ugly , sturdy , practical lad , very different from his brother , and in his way , I imagine , a very fine fellow . 
When the war broke out he found that the New England blood ran thicker in his veins than the Virginian , and immediately obtained a commission . 
He fell in some Western battle and left his mother inconsolable . 
He grew up a la grace de Dieu , and was horribly spoiled . 
Since then he has been reading law , at the rate of a page a day . 
If he is ever admitted to practice I 'm afraid my friendship won't avail to make me give him my business . 
Good , bad , or indifferent , the boy is essentially an artist an artist to his fingers' ends . 
Why , then , asked Rowland , does n't he deliberately take up the chisel ? For several reasons . 
In the first place , I don't think he more than half suspects his talent . 
The flame is smouldering , but it is never fanned by the breath of criticism . 
He sees nothing , hears nothing , to help him to self knowledge . 
He 's hopelessly discontented , but he does n't know where to look for help . 
Sculpture , to her mind , is an insidious form of immorality , and for a young man of a passionate disposition she considers the law a much safer investment . 
Her father was a judge , she has two brothers at the bar , and her elder son had made a very promising beginning in the same line . 
She wishes the tradition to be perpetuated . 
I 'm pretty sure the law won't make Roderick's fortune , and I 'm afraid it will , in the long run , spoil his temper . 
What sort of a temper is it ? One to be trusted , on the whole . 
It is quick , but it is generous . 
I have known it to breathe flame and fury at ten o'clock in the evening , and soft , sweet music early on the morrow . 
It 's a very entertaining temper to observe . 
I , fortunately , can do so dispassionately , for I 'm the only person in the place he has not quarreled with . 
Roderick has a goodly share of the old Southern arrogance he has the aristocratic temperament . 
He will have nothing to do with the small towns people he says they 're 'ignoble . 
He cannot endure his mother's friends the old ladies and the ministers and the tea party people they bore him to death . 
So he comes and lounges here and rails at everything and every one . 
This graceful young scoffer reappeared a couple of evenings later , and confirmed the friendly feeling he had provoked on Rowland's part . 
Cecilia , when he had gone , said that this was the wholesome effect of Rowland's praise of his statuette . 
Roderick was acutely sensitive , and Rowland's tranquil commendation had stilled his restless pulses . 
He was ruminating the full flavored verdict of culture . 
Rowland felt an irresistible kindness for him , a mingled sense of his personal charm and his artistic capacity . 
He had an indefinable attraction the something divine of unspotted , exuberant , confident youth . 
The next day was Sunday , and Rowland proposed that they should take a long walk and that Roderick should show him the country . 
It was one of those lovely days of August when you feel the complete exuberance of summer just warned and checked by autumn . 
Remember the day , and take care you rob no orchards , said Cecilia , as they separated . 
Just beneath them , in a great shining curve , flowed the goodly Connecticut . 
They flung themselves on the grass and tossed stones into the river they talked like old friends . 
Rowland lit a cigar , and Roderick refused one with a grimace of extravagant disgust . 
He thought them vile things he did n't see how decent people could tolerate them . 
Rowland was amused , and wondered what it was that made this ill mannered speech seem perfectly inoffensive on Roderick's lips . 
He belonged to the race of mortals , to be pitied or envied according as we view the matter , who are not held to a strict account for their aggressions . 
Rowland watched the shadows on Mount Holyoke , listened to the gurgle of the river , and sniffed the balsam of the pines . 
A gentle breeze had begun to tickle their summits , and brought the smell of the mown grass across from the elm dotted river meadows . 
He sat up beside his companion and looked away at the far spreading view . 
It seemed to him beautiful , and suddenly a strange feeling of prospective regret took possession of him . 
Something seemed to tell him that later , in a foreign land , he would remember it lovingly and penitently . 
It 's a wretched business , he said , this practical quarrel of ours with our own country , this everlasting impatience to get out of it . 
Is one's only safety then in flight ? This is an American day , an American landscape , an American atmosphere . 
It certainly has its merits , and some day when I am shivering with ague in classic Italy , I shall accuse myself of having slighted them . 
He had evidently thought nothing whatever about it , and was launching his doctrine on the inspiration of the moment . 
The doctrine expanded with the occasion , and he declared that he was above all an advocate for American art . 
He did n't see why we should n't produce the greatest works in the world . 
We were the biggest people , and we ought to have the biggest conceptions . 
The biggest conceptions of course would bring forth in time the biggest performances . 
We had only to be true to ourselves , to pitch in and not be afraid , to fling Imitation overboard and fix our eyes upon our National Individuality . 
Roderick took no offense , and three minutes afterwards was talking volubly of some humbler theme , but half heeded by his companion , who had returned to his cogitations . 
At last Rowland delivered himself of the upshot of these . 
Nay , said Rowland soberly , if you were to go to Rome , you should settle down and work . 
Athens might help you , but for the present I should n't recommend Benares . 
It will be time to arrange details when I pack my trunk , said Hudson . 
If you mean to turn sculptor , the sooner you pack your trunk the better . 
There are ways of raising money . 
I should like to know a few ! I never yet discovered one . 
One consists , said Rowland , in having a friend with a good deal more than he wants , and not being too proud to accept a part of it . 
Roderick stared a moment and his face flushed . 
Do you mean do you mean ? . 
Rowland got up , blushing a little , and Roderick sprang to his feet . 
In three words , if you are to be a sculptor , you ought to go to Rome and study the antique . 
To go to Rome you need money . 
I 'm fond of fine statues , but unfortunately I can't make them myself . 
I have to order them . 
I order a dozen from you , to be executed at your convenience . 
To help you , I pay you in advance . 
Roderick pushed off his hat and wiped his forehead , still gazing at his companion . 
You believe in me ! he cried at last . 
Allow me to explain , said Rowland . 
I believe in you , if you are prepared to work and to wait , and to struggle , and to exercise a great many virtues . 
And then , I 'm afraid to say it , lest I should disturb you more than I should help you . 
You must decide for yourself . 
I simply offer you an opportunity . 
Hudson stood for some time , profoundly meditative . 
You have not seen my other things , he said suddenly . 
Come and look at them . 
Now ? Yes , we 'll walk home . 
We 'll settle the question . 
He passed his hand through Rowland's arm and they retraced their steps . 
They reached the town and made their way along a broad country street , dusky with the shade of magnificent elms . 
Rowland felt his companion's arm trembling in his own . 
The mansion had an air of antiquated dignity , but it had seen its best days , and evidently sheltered a shrunken household . 
Mrs. Hudson , Rowland was sure , might be seen in the garden of a morning , in a white apron and a pair of old gloves , engaged in frugal horticulture . 
Roderick's studio was behind , in the basement a large , empty room , with the paper peeling off the walls . 
To exhibit them Roderick had to place them one by one on the end of a long packing box , which served as a pedestal . 
He did so silently , making no explanations , and looking at them himself with a strange air of quickened curiosity . 
Most of the things were portraits and the three at which he looked longest were finished busts . 
This was a face peculiarly unadapted to sculpture but as a piece of modeling it was the best , and it was admirable . 
It reminded Rowland in its homely veracity , its artless artfulness , of the works of the early Italian Renaissance . 
On the pedestal was cut the name Barnaby Striker , Esq . 
Besides these there were several rough studies of the nude , and two or three figures of a fanciful kind . 
was a small modeled design for a sepulchral monument that , evidently , of Stephen Hudson . 
The young soldier lay sleeping eternally , with his hand on his sword , like an old crusader in a Gothic cathedral . 
Rowland made no haste to pronounce too much depended on his judgment . 
Upon my word , cried Hudson at last , they seem to me very good . 
And in truth , as Rowland looked , he saw they were good . 
They were youthful , awkward , and ignorant the effort , often , was more apparent than the success . 
But the effort was signally powerful and intelligent it seemed to Rowland that it needed only to let itself go to compass great things . 
Here and there , too , success , when grasped , had something masterly . 
Rowland turned to his companion , who stood with his hands in his pockets and his hair very much crumpled , looking at him askance . 
The light of admiration was in Rowland's eyes , and it speedily kindled a wonderful illumination on Hudson's handsome brow . 
Rowland said at last , gravely , You have only to work ! I think I know what that means , Roderick answered . 
He turned away , threw himself on a rickety chair , and sat for some moments with his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands . 
His smile vanished , and he stared at it with an air of concentrated enmity . 
The bust cracked into a dozen pieces , which toppled with a great crash upon the floor . 
She came in with a rapid step and startled face , as if she had been summoned by the noise . 
Seeing the heap of shattered clay and the mallet in Roderick's hand , she gave a cry of horror . 
I 've driven the money changers out of the temple ! he cried . 
The traces retained shape enough to be recognized , and she gave a little moan of pity . 
She looked at him with a sharp , frank mistrust , and turned away through the open door . 
Rowland looked after her with extraordinary interest . 
Roderick Early on the morrow Rowland received a visit from his new friend . 
Roderick was in a state of extreme exhilaration , tempered , however , by a certain amount of righteous wrath . 
He had had a domestic struggle , but he had remained master of the situation . 
He had shaken the dust of Mr. Striker's office from his feet . 
I had it out last night with my mother , he said . 
I dreaded the scene , for she takes things terribly hard . 
She does n't scold nor storm , and she does n't argue nor insist . 
She sits with her eyes full of tears that never fall , and looks at me , when I displease her , as if I were a perfect monster of depravity . 
And the trouble is that I was born to displease her . 
She does n't trust me she never has and she never will . 
I don't know what I have done to set her against me , but ever since I can remember I have been looked at with tears . 
The trouble is , he went on , giving a twist to his moustache , I 've been too absurdly docile . 
I 've been sprawling all my days by the maternal fireside , and my dear mother has grown used to bullying me . 
I 've made myself cheap ! If I 'm not in my bed by eleven o'clock , the girl is sent out to explore with a lantern . 
When I think of it , I fairly despise my amiability . 
If you have been a good boy , don't spoil it by pretending you don't like it . 
You have been very happy , I suspect , in spite of your virtues , and there are worse fates in the world than being loved too well . 
I have not had the pleasure of seeing your mother , but I would lay you a wager that that is the trouble . 
She is passionately fond of you , and her hopes , like all intense hopes , keep trembling into fears . 
Rowland , as he spoke , had an instinctive vision of how such a beautiful young fellow must be loved by his female relatives . 
Roderick frowned , and with an impatient gesture , I do her justice , he cried . 
May she never do me less ! Then after a moment's hesitation , I 'll tell you the perfect truth , he went on . 
I have to fill a double place . 
I have to be my brother as well as myself . 
It 's a good deal to ask of a man , especially when he has so little talent as I for being what he is not . 
When we were both young together I was the curled darling . 
I remember , as she hung round my neck sobbing , before his coffin , she told me that I must be to her everything that he would have been . 
I swore in tears and in perfect good faith that I would , but naturally I have not kept my promise . 
I have been utterly different . 
I have been idle , restless , egotistical , discontented . 
I have done no harm , I believe , but I have done no good . 
My brother , if he had lived , would have made fifty thousand dollars and put gas and water into the house . 
My mother , brooding night and day on her bereavement , has come to fix her ideal in offices of that sort . 
You must lose no time in making a masterpiece , he answered then with the proceeds you can give her gas from golden burners . 
So I have told her but she only half believes either in masterpiece or in proceeds . 
She can see no good in my making statues they seem to her a snare of the enemy . 
She would fain see me all my life tethered to the law , like a browsing goat to a stake . 
In that way I 'm in sight . 
'It 's a more regular occupation ! that 's all I can get out of her . 
, who used to drink raw brandy and beat his wife . 
I promised her that , whatever I might do to my wife , I would never beat my mother , and that as for brandy , raw or diluted , I detested it . 
She sat silently crying for an hour , during which I expended treasures of eloquence . 
I kissed her solemnly at last , and told her that I had said everything and that she must make the best of it . 
This morning she has dried her eyes , but I warrant you it is n't a cheerful house . 
I long to be out of it ! I 'm extremely sorry , said Rowland , to have been the prime cause of so much suffering . 
She does n't see why you should have come here and set me by the ears you are made to ruin ingenuous youths and desolate doting mothers . 
I leave it to you , personally , to answer these charges . 
You see , what she can't forgive what she 'll not really ever forgive is your taking me off to Rome . 
Rome is an evil word , in my mother's vocabulary , to be said in a whisper , as you 'd say 'damnation . 
Northampton is in the centre of the earth and Rome far away in outlying dusk , into which it can do no Christian any good to penetrate . 
And there was I but yesterday a doomed habitue of that repository of every virtue , Mr. Striker's office ! And does Mr. Striker know of your decision ? asked Rowland . 
To a certainty ! Mr. Striker , you must know , is not simply a good natured attorney , who lets me dog's ear his law books . 
He's a particular friend and general adviser . 
He looks after my mother's property and kindly consents to regard me as part of it . 
Our opinions have always been painfully divergent , but I freely forgive him his zealous attempts to unscrew my head piece and set it on hind part before . 
He never understood me , and it was useless to try to make him . 
We speak a different language we 're made of a different clay . 
I don't hate him any more I 'm rather sorry for him . 
This morning I grasped the bull by the horns . 
I took an armful of law books that have been gathering the dust in my room for the last year and a half , and presented myself at the office . 
'Allow me to put these back in their places , I said . 
'I shall never have need for them more never more , never more , never more ! 'So you 've learned everything they contain ? asked Striker , leering over his spectacles . 
'I 've learned nothing that you can teach me , I cried . 
'But I shall tax your patience no longer . 
I 'm going to be a sculptor . 
I 'm going to Rome . 
I won't bid you good by just yet I shall see you again . 
You certainly owe him a respectful farewell , even if he has not understood you . 
I confess you rather puzzle me . 
There is another person , he presently added , whose opinion as to your new career I should like to know . 
What does Miss Garland think ? Hudson looked at him keenly , with a slight blush . 
Then , with a conscious smile , What makes you suppose she thinks anything ? he asked . 
Because , though I saw her but for a moment yesterday , she struck me as a very intelligent person , and I am sure she has opinions . 
The smile on Roderick's mobile face passed rapidly into a frown . 
Oh , she thinks what I think ! he answered . 
Before the two young men separated Rowland attempted to give as harmonious a shape as possible to his companion's scheme . 
I have launched you , as I may say , he said , and I feel as if I ought to see you into port . 
I am older than you and know the world better , and it seems well that we should voyage a while together . 
It 's on my conscience that I ought to take you to Rome , walk you through the Vatican , and then lock you up with a heap of clay . 
I have no preparations to make , he said with a smile , raising his arms and letting them fall , as if to indicate his unencumbered condition . 
What I am to take with me I carry here ! and he tapped his forehead . 
When his companion had left him he went in search of Cecilia . 
She was sitting at work at a shady window , and welcomed him to a low chintz covered chair . 
He sat some time , thoughtfully snipping tape with her scissors he expected criticism and he was preparing a rejoinder . 
At last he told her of Roderick's decision and of his own influence in it . 
Cecilia , besides an extreme surprise , exhibited a certain fine displeasure at his not having asked her advice . 
What would you have said , if I had ? he demanded . 
Let well alone ! That in the first five minutes . 
What would you have said later ? That for a man who is generally averse to meddling , you were suddenly rather officious . 
Cecilia looked at him askance gradually the spark of irritation faded from her eye . 
Excuse my sharpness , she resumed at last . 
But I am literally in despair at losing Roderick Hudson . 
His visits in the evening , for the past year , have kept me alive . 
They have given a silver tip to leaden days . 
I don't say he is of a more useful metal than other people , but he is of a different one . 
Of course , however , that I shall miss him sadly is not a reason for his not going to seek his fortune . 
Men must work and women must weep ! Decidedly not ! said Rowland , with a good deal of emphasis . 
She liked her young friend just as he was she humored him , flattered him , laughed at him , caressed him did everything but advise him . 
It was a flirtation without the benefits of a flirtation . 
So Rowland reflected , in the glow of his new born sympathy . 
I only desire to remind you , she pursued , that you are likely to have your hands full . 
I 've thought of that , and I rather like the idea liking , as I do , the man . 
I told you the other day , you know , that I longed to have something on my hands . 
When it first occurred to me that I might start our young friend on the path of glory , I felt as if I had an unimpeachable inspiration . 
Then I remembered there were dangers and difficulties , and asked myself whether I had a right to step in between him and his obscurity . 
My sense of his really having the divine flame answered the question . 
In the name of humanity , I suppose , I ought to thank you . 
But I want , first of all , to be happy myself . 
You guarantee us at any rate , I hope , the masterpieces . 
A masterpiece a year , said Rowland smiling , for the next quarter of a century . 
It seems to me that we have a right to ask more to demand that you guarantee us not only the development of the artist , but the security of the man . 
His security ? His moral , his sentimental security . 
Here , you see , it 's perfect . 
We are all under a tacit compact to preserve it . 
Perhaps you believe in the necessary turbulence of genius , and you intend to enjoin upon your protege the importance of cultivating his passions . 
That is what I shall preach to my protege , as you call him , by example as well as by precept . 
You evidently believe , he added in a moment , that he will lead me a dance . 
Nay , I prophesy nothing . 
Transplanted to Rome , I fancy he 'll put forth a denser leafage . 
I should like vastly to see the change . 
You must write me about it , from stage to stage . 
I hope with all my heart that the fruit will be proportionate to the foliage . 
Don't think me a bird of ill omen only remember that you will be held to a strict account . 
A man should make the most of himself , and be helped if he needs help , Rowland answered , after a long pause . 
Of course when a body begins to expand , there comes in the possibility of bursting but I nevertheless approve of a certain tension of one's being . 
It 's what a man is meant for . 
And then I believe in the essential salubrity of genius true genius . 
Very good , said Cecilia , with an air of resignation which made Rowland , for the moment , seem to himself culpably eager . 
We 'll drink then to day at dinner to the health of our friend . 
Having it much at heart to convince Mrs. Hudson of the purity of his intentions , Rowland waited upon her that evening . 
He was ushered into a large parlor , which , by the light of a couple of candles , he perceived to be very meagrely furnished and very tenderly and sparingly used . 
The windows were open to the air of the summer night , and a circle of three persons was temporarily awed into silence by his appearance . 
This young lady's limpid , penetrating gaze was the most effective greeting he received . 
Mrs. Hudson rose with a soft , vague sound of distress , and stood looking at him shrinkingly and waveringly , as if she were sorely tempted to retreat through the open window . 
Mr. Striker swung his long leg a trifle defiantly . 
No one , evidently , was used to offering hollow welcomes or telling polite fibs . 
Rowland introduced himself he had come , he might say , upon business . 
Yes , said Mrs. Hudson tremulously I know my son has told me . 
I suppose it is better I should see you . 
Perhaps you will take a seat . 
With this invitation Rowland prepared to comply , and , turning , grasped the first chair that offered itself . 
And then he thought it would break the ice to say something playfully urbane . 
The elder lady , however , sat with her eyes fixed on the ground and her two hands tightly clasped . 
But touching her Rowland felt much more compassion than resentment her attitude was not coldness , it was a kind of dread , almost a terror . 
She was a small , eager woman , with a pale , troubled face , which added to her apparent age . 
After looking at her for some minutes Rowland saw that she was still young , and that she must have been a very girlish bride . 
She had been a pretty one , too , though she probably had looked terribly frightened at the altar . 
She was very delicately made , and Roderick had come honestly by his physical slimness and elegance . 
She wore no cap , and her flaxen hair , which was of extraordinary fineness , was smoothed and confined with Puritanic precision . 
He foresaw that she would be easy to persuade , and that a benevolent conversational tone would probably make her pass , fluttering , from distrust into an oppressive extreme of confidence . 
But he had an indefinable sense that the person who was testing that strong young eyesight of hers in the dim candle light was less readily beguiled from her mysterious feminine preconceptions . 
They followed each other slowly , distinctly , gravely , sincerely , and you might almost have fancied that , as they came and went , they gave her a sort of pain . 
She was tall and slender , and had an air of maidenly strength and decision . 
She had a broad forehead and dark eyebrows , a trifle thicker than those of classic beauties her gray eye was clear but not brilliant , and her features were perfectly irregular . 
Her mouth was large , fortunately for the principal grace of her physiognomy was her smile , which displayed itself with magnificent amplitude . 
Rowland , indeed , had not yet seen her smile , but something assured him that her rigid gravity had a radiant counterpart . 
She wore a scanty white dress , and had a nameless rustic air which would have led one to speak of her less as a young lady than as a young woman . 
She was evidently a girl of a great personal force , but she lacked pliancy . 
She was hemming a kitchen towel with the aid of a large steel thimble . 
She bent her serious eyes at last on her work again , and let Rowland explain himself . 
I have become suddenly so very intimate with your son , he said at last , addressing himself to Mrs. Hudson , that it seems just I should make your acquaintance . 
I should like to take the liberty , he said , of addressing you a simple question . 
A very short time , I confess . 
We had a few moments' conversation in my office which supplied the missing links in the evidence . 
Mrs. Hudson smiled confusedly , at hazard Miss Garland kept her eyes on her stitches . 
But it seemed to Rowland that the latter colored a little . 
Oh , in three years , of course , he said , we shall know each other better . 
Before many years are over , madam , he pursued , I expect the world to know him . 
I expect him to be a great man ! Mrs. Hudson looked at first as if this could be but an insidious device for increasing her distress by the assistance of irony . 
Then reassured , little by little , by Rowland's benevolent visage , she gave him an appealing glance and a timorous Really ? But before Rowland could respond , Mr. Striker again intervened . 
Do I fully apprehend your expression ? he asked . 
Our young friend is to become a great man ? A great artist , I hope , said Rowland . 
This is a new and interesting view , said Mr. Striker , with an assumption of judicial calmness . 
We have had hopes for Mr. Roderick , but I confess , if I have rightly understood them , they stopped short of greatness . 
We should n't have taken the responsibility of claiming it for him . 
But he was unversed in the mysterious processes of feminine emotion . 
Ten minutes before , there had been a general harmony of sombre views but on hearing Roderick's limitations thus distinctly formulated to a stranger , the two ladies mutely protested . 
Mrs. Hudson uttered a short , faint sigh , and Miss Garland raised her eyes toward their advocate and visited him with a short , cold glance . 
I suspect I have made you my enemy . 
Mrs. Hudson covered her mouth with her finger tips and looked painfully perplexed between the desire to confess the truth and the fear of being impolite . 
My cousin is no one's enemy , Miss Garland hereupon declared , gently , but with that same fine deliberateness with which she had made Rowland relax his grasp of the chair . 
Does she leave that to you ? Rowland ventured to ask , with a smile . 
We are inspired with none but Christian sentiments , said Mr. Striker Miss Garland perhaps most of all . 
Rowland bowed deferentially , and the young girl went on with her sewing , with nothing , apparently , either of embarrassment or elation at the promulgation of these facts . 
Mr. Striker continued Mrs. Hudson , I see , is too deeply agitated to converse with you freely . 
She will allow me to address you a few questions . 
Do , my dear madam ? demanded Rowland . 
I don't propose to do anything . 
He must do for himself . 
I simply offer him the chance . 
He 's to study , to work hard , I hope . 
Not too hard , please , murmured Mrs. Hudson , pleadingly , wheeling about from recent visions of dangerous leisure . 
He 's not very strong , and I 'm afraid the climate of Europe is very relaxing . 
Ah , study ? repeated Mr. Striker . 
At models , eh ? To what kind of models do you refer ? To the antique , in the first place . 
Ah , the antique , repeated Mr. Striker , with a jocose intonation . 
Do you hear , madam ? Roderick is going off to Europe to learn to imitate the antique . 
I suppose it 's all right , said Mrs. Hudson , twisting herself in a sort of delicate anguish . 
A precious model , certainly ! That 's a very good description of many , said Rowland , with a laugh . 
Mercy ! Truly ? asked Mrs. Hudson , borrowing courage from his urbanity . 
But a sculptor's studies , you intimate , are not confined to the antique , Mr. Striker resumed . 
After he has been looking three or four years at the objects I describe He studies the living model , said Rowland . 
Does it take three or four years ? asked Mrs. Hudson , imploringly . 
That depends upon the artist's aptitude . 
After twenty years a real artist is still studying . 
Oh , my poor boy ! moaned Mrs. Hudson , finding the prospect , under every light , still terrible . 
Now this study of the living model , Mr. Striker pursued . 
Inform Mrs. Hudson about that . 
Oh dear , no ! cried Mrs. Hudson , shrinkingly . 
That too , said Rowland , is one of the reasons for studying in Rome . 
It 's a handsome race , you know , and you find very well made people . 
I suppose they 're no better made than a good tough Yankee , objected Mr. Striker , transposing his interminable legs . 
The same God made us . 
Surely , sighed Mrs. Hudson , but with a questioning glance at her visitor which showed that she had already begun to concede much weight to his opinion . 
Rowland hastened to express his assent to Mr. Striker's proposition . 
Miss Garland looked up , and , after a moment's hesitation Are the Roman women very beautiful ? she asked . 
Rowland too , in answering , hesitated he was looking straight at the young girl . 
On the whole , I prefer ours , he said . 
She had dropped her work in her lap her hands were crossed upon it , her head thrown a little back . 
She had evidently expected a more impersonal answer , and she was dissatisfied . 
For an instant she seemed inclined to make a rejoinder , but she slowly picked up her work in silence and drew her stitches again . 
Rowland had for the second time the feeling that she judged him to be a person of a disagreeably sophisticated tone . 
He noticed too that the kitchen towel she was hemming was terribly coarse . 
And yet his answer had a resonant inward echo , and he repeated to himself , Yes , on the whole , I prefer ours . 
Well , these models , began Mr. Striker . 
You put them into an attitude , I suppose . 
And then you sit down and look at them . 
You must not sit too long . 
You must go at your clay and try to build up something that looks like them . 
So you pass the morning . 
After that I hope you go out and take a walk , and rest from your exertions . 
But to a sculptor who loves his work there is no time lost . 
Everything he looks at teaches or suggests something . 
My son , then , she ventured to ask , my son has great what you would call great powers ? To my sense , very great powers . 
Poor Mrs. Hudson actually smiled , broadly , gleefully , and glanced at Miss Garland , as if to invite her to do likewise . 
But the young girl's face remained serious , like the eastern sky when the opposite sunset is too feeble to make it glow . 
Do you really know ? she asked , looking at Rowland . 
One cannot know in such a matter save after proof , and proof takes time . 
And you believe ? I believe . 
But even then Miss Garland vouchsafed no smile . 
Her face became graver than ever . 
Well , well , said Mrs. Hudson , we must hope that it is all for the best . 
He rose to his feet , without pulling down his waistcoat , but with a wrinkled grin at the inconsistency of women . 
Well , sir , Mr. Roderick's powers are nothing to me , he said , nor no use he makes of them . 
Good or bad , he 's no son of mine . 
But , in a friendly way , I 'm glad to hear so fine an account of him . 
I 'm glad , madam , you 're so satisfied with the prospect . 
The look was grotesque , but it was significant , and it puzzled Rowland more than it amused him . 
I 'm a plain , practical old boy , content to follow an honorable profession in a free country . 
But , mind you , it won't help him such a long way , either . 
If you have undertaken to put him through , there 's a thing or two you 'd better remember . 
The crop we gather depends upon the seed we sow . 
He may be the biggest genius of the age his potatoes won't come up without his hoeing them . 
If he takes things so almighty easy as well , as one or two young fellows of genius I 've had under my eye his produce will never gain the prize . 
That 's all I desire to remark . 
I hope you 'll have a first rate time . 
Rowland could honestly reply that this seemed pregnant sense , and he offered Mr. Striker a friendly hand shake as the latter withdrew . 
Rowland sat for some time longer , partly because he wished to please the two women and partly because he was strangely pleased himself . 
There was something touching in their unworldly fears and diffident hopes , something almost terrible in the way poor little Mrs. Hudson seemed to flutter and quiver with intense maternal passion . 
Rowland had an odd feeling at last that she had begun to consider him very exemplary , and that she might make , later , some perturbing discovery . 
He tried , therefore , to invent something that would prepare her to find him fallible . 
But he could think of nothing . 
Mrs. Hudson talked with low voiced eagerness about her son . 
He 's very lovable , sir , I assure you . 
When you come to know him you 'll find him very lovable . 
He 's a little spoiled , of course he has always done with me as he pleased but he 's a good boy , I 'm sure he 's a good boy . 
And every one thinks him very attractive I 'm sure he 'd be noticed , anywhere . 
Don't you think he 's very handsome , sir ? He features his poor father . 
I had another perhaps you 've been told . 
And the poor little lady bravely smiled , for fear of doing worse . 
He was a very fine boy , but very different from Roderick . 
Roderick is a little strange he has never been an easy boy . 
I have never been able to give him what he needs . 
I have always thought that in more in more brilliant circumstances he might find his place and be happy . 
But at the same time I was afraid of the world for him it was so large and dangerous and dreadful . 
No doubt I know very little about it . 
I never suspected , I confess , that it contained persons of such liberality as yours . 
Rowland replied that , evidently , she had done the world but scanty justice . 
No , objected Miss Garland , after a pause , it is like something in a fairy tale . 
What , pray ? Your coming here all unknown , so rich and so polite , and carrying off my cousin in a golden cloud . 
If this was badinage Miss Garland had the best of it , for Rowland almost fell a musing silently over the question whether there was a possibility of irony in that transparent gaze . 
Before he withdrew , Mrs. Hudson made him tell her again that Roderick's powers were extraordinary . 
He had inspired her with a clinging , caressing faith in his wisdom . 
He will really do great things , she asked , the very greatest ? I see no reason in his talent itself why he should not . 
Well , we 'll think of that as we sit here alone , she rejoined . 
Mary and I will sit here and talk about it . 
So I give him up , she went on , as he was going . 
Remember , my dear madam ? That he is all I have that he is everything and that it would be very terrible . 
In so far as I can help him , he shall succeed , was all Rowland could say . 
He turned to Miss Garland , to bid her good night , and she rose and put out her hand . 
She was very straightforward , but he could see that if she was too modest to be bold , she was much too simple to be shy . 
Have you no charge to lay upon me ? he asked to ask her something . 
She looked at him a moment and then , although she was not shy , she blushed . 
Make him do his best , she said . 
Rowland noted the soft intensity with which the words were uttered . 
Do you take a great interest in him ? he demanded . 
Then , if he will not do his best for you , he will not do it for me . 
She turned away with another blush , and Rowland took his leave . 
He walked homeward , thinking of many things . 
The great Northampton elms interarched far above in the darkness , but the moon had risen and through scattered apertures was hanging the dusky vault with silver lamps . 
There seemed to Rowland something intensely serious in the scene in which he had just taken part . 
It was true , as Cecilia had said , that for an unofficious man it was a singular position . 
There stirred in his mind an odd feeling of annoyance with Roderick for having thus peremptorily enlisted his sympathies . 
Here were kindness , comfort , safety , the warning voice of duty , the perfect hush of temptation . 
He had no difficulty in recognizing Hudson , who was presumably returning from a visit to Cecilia . 
Roderick stopped suddenly and stared up at the moon , with his face vividly illumined . 
He was dreaming of the inspiration of foreign lands , of castled crags and historic landscapes . 
Rowland had telegraphed to New York for another berth on his steamer , and from the hour the answer came Hudson's spirits rose to incalculable heights . 
He was radiant with good humor , and his kindly jollity seemed the pledge of a brilliant future . 
He had forgiven his old enemies and forgotten his old grievances , and seemed every way reconciled to a world in which he was going to count as an active force . 
He took long walks with Rowland , who felt more and more the fascination of what he would have called his giftedness . 
Rowland returned several times to Mrs. Hudson's , and found the two ladies doing their best to be happy in their companion's happiness . 
Miss Garland , he thought , was succeeding better than her demeanor on his first visit had promised . 
It made him restless , and a trifle melancholy he walked about absently , wondering and wishing . 
It seemed to him that he was turning his back on a chance of happiness happiness of a sort of which the slenderest germ should be cultivated . 
He asked himself whether , feeling as he did , if he had only himself to please , he would give up his journey and wait . 
He asked Hudson several questions about his cousin , but Roderick , confidential on most points , seemed to have reasons of his own for being reticent on this one . 
His measured answers quickened Rowland's curiosity , for Miss Garland , with her own irritating half suggestions , had only to be a subject of guarded allusion in others to become intolerably interesting . 
It is to be a very long one now , he said , for it is settled that she is to remain while I am away . 
The fermentation of contentment in Roderick's soul reached its climax a few days before the young men were to make their farewells . 
He had been sitting with his friends on Cecilia's veranda , but for half an hour past he had said nothing . 
At last , springing up I want to strike out , hard ! he exclaimed . 
I want to do something violent , to let off steam ! I 'll tell you what to do , this lovely weather , said Cecilia . 
It can be as violent as you please , and it will have the merit of leading off our emotion into a safe channel , as well as yours . 
Roderick laughed uproariously at Cecilia's very practical remedy for his sentimental need , but a couple of days later , nevertheless , the picnic was given . 
It was to be a family party , but Roderick , in his magnanimous geniality , insisted on inviting Mr. Striker , a decision which Rowland mentally applauded . 
It was a meadow on the edge of a wood , with mossy rocks protruding through the grass and a little lake on the other side . 
It was a cloudless August day Rowland always remembered it , and the scene , and everything that was said and done , with extraordinary distinctness . 
Mrs. Hudson sat all day with a little meek , apprehensive smile . 
should push Roderick into the lake , it was hard to see what accident could occur . 
Mrs. Hudson was as neat and crisp and uncrumpled at the end of the festival as at the beginning . 
Mr. Whitefoot , who but a twelvemonth later became a convert to episcopacy and was already cultivating a certain conversational sonority , devoted himself to Cecilia . 
Rowland had placed himself near Miss Garland , while the feasting went forward on the grass . 
When the company dispersed , after lunch , he proposed to her to take a stroll in the wood . 
She hesitated a moment and looked toward Mrs. Hudson , as if for permission to leave her . 
But Mrs. Hudson was listening to Mr. Striker , who sat gossiping to her with relaxed magniloquence , his waistcoat unbuttoned and his hat on his nose . 
You can give your cousin your society at any time , said Rowland . 
But me , perhaps , you 'll never see again . 
Why then should we wish to be friends , if nothing is to come of it ? she asked , with homely logic . 
But by this time she had consented , and they were treading the fallen pine needles . 
Oh , one must take all one can get , said Rowland . 
If we can be friends for half an hour , it 's so much gained . 
Do you expect never to come back to Northampton again ? 'Never' is a good deal to say . 
But I go to Europe for a long stay . 
Do you prefer it so much to your own country ? I will not say that . 
But I have the misfortune to be a rather idle man , and in Europe the burden of idleness is less heavy than here . 
She was silent for a few minutes then at last , In that , then , we are better than Europe , she said . 
To a certain point Rowland agreed with her , but he demurred , to make her say more . 
I come from a little place where every one has plenty , said Miss Garland . 
We all work every one I know works . 
And really , she added presently , I look at you with curiosity you are the first unoccupied man I ever saw . 
Don't look at me too hard , said Rowland , smiling . 
I shall sink into the earth . 
What is the name of your little place ? West Nazareth , said Miss Garland , with her usual sobriety . 
It is not so very little , though it 's smaller than Northampton . 
I wonder whether I could find any work at West Nazareth , Rowland said . 
You would not like it , Miss Garland declared reflectively . 
Though there are far finer woods there than this . 
We have miles and miles of woods . 
I might chop down trees , said Rowland . 
That is , if you allow it . 
Don't you know how to do anything ? Have you no profession ? Rowland shook his head . 
What do you do all day ? Nothing worth relating . 
That 's why I am going to Europe . 
There , at least , if I do nothing , I shall see a great deal and if I 'm not a producer , I shall at any rate be an observer . 
Can't we observe everywhere ? Certainly and I really think that in that way I make the most of my opportunities . 
Though I confess , he continued , that I often remember there are things to be seen here to which I probably have n't done justice . 
I should like , for instance , to see West Nazareth . 
In fact , he had spoken from the simplest of motives . 
Miss Garland's second movement was to take him at his word . 
Since you are free to do as you please , why don't you go there ? I am not free to do as I please now . 
I have offered your cousin to bear him company to Europe , he has accepted with enthusiasm , and I cannot retract . 
Are you going to Europe simply for his sake ? Rowland hesitated a moment . 
I think I may almost say so . 
Miss Garland walked along in silence . 
Do you mean to do a great deal for him ? she asked at last . 
But my power of helping him is very small beside his power of helping himself . 
For a moment she was silent again . 
You are very generous , she said , almost solemnly . 
No , I am simply very shrewd . 
At first , I think , he added shortly afterwards , you would not have paid me that compliment . 
She made no attempt to deny it . 
I did n't see why you should wish to make Roderick discontented . 
I thought you were rather frivolous . 
I don't think I 'm that . 
It was because you are unlike other men those , at least , whom I have seen . 
In what way ? Why , as you describe yourself . 
You have no duties , no profession , no home . 
You live for your pleasure . 
That 's all very true . 
And yet I maintain I 'm not frivolous . 
I hope not , said Miss Garland , simply . 
They had reached a point where the wood path forked and put forth two divergent tracks which lost themselves in a verdurous tangle . 
Miss Garland seemed to think that the difficulty of choice between them was a reason for giving them up and turning back . 
Rowland thought otherwise , and detected agreeable grounds for preference in the left hand path . 
As a compromise , they sat down on a fallen log . 
Looking about him , Rowland espied a curious wild shrub , with a spotted crimson leaf he went and plucked a spray of it and brought it to Miss Garland . 
He had never observed it before , but she immediately called it by its name . 
She expressed surprise at his not knowing it it was extremely common . 
He presently brought her a specimen of another delicate plant , with a little blue streaked flower . 
I suppose that 's common , too , he said , but I have never seen it or noticed it , at least . 
She answered that this one was rare , and meditated a moment before she could remember its name . 
At last she recalled it , and expressed surprise at his having found the plant in the woods she supposed it grew only in open marshes . 
Rowland complimented her on her fund of useful information . 
It 's not especially useful , she answered but I like to know the names of plants as I do those of my acquaintances . 
Do kindly tell me a little about yourself . 
And to compel her to begin , I know you come of a race of theologians , he went on . 
No , she replied , deliberating they are not theologians , though they are ministers . 
We don't take a very firm stand upon doctrine we are practical , rather . 
We write sermons and preach them , but we do a great deal of hard work beside . 
And of this hard work what has your share been ? The hardest part doing nothing . 
What do you call nothing ? I taught school a while I must make the most of that . 
But I confess I did n't like it . 
Otherwise , I have only done little things at home , as they turned up . 
What kind of things ? Oh , every kind . 
If you had seen my home , you would understand . 
To be happy , I imagine , he contented himself with saying , you need to be occupied . 
You need to have something to expend yourself upon . 
That is not so true as it once was now that I am older , I am sure I am less impatient of leisure . 
Certainly , these two months that I have been with Mrs. Hudson , I have had a terrible amount of it . 
It is settled , then , that you are to remain with your cousin ? It depends upon their writing from home that I may stay . 
Only I must not forget , she said , rising , that the ground for my doing so is that she be not left alone . 
I am glad to know , said Rowland , that I shall probably often hear about you . 
I assure you I shall often think about you ! These words were half impulsive , half deliberate . 
They were the simple truth , and he had asked himself why he should not tell her the truth . 
And yet they were not all of it her hearing the rest would depend upon the way she received this . 
Evidently , if Rowland was to take pleasure in hearing about her , it would have to be a highly disinterested pleasure . 
He ushered them in by talking composed civility until he had brought Miss Garland back to her companions . 
He saw her but once again . 
He was obliged to be in New York a couple of days before sailing , and it was arranged that Roderick should overtake him at the last moment . 
The evening before he left Northampton he went to say farewell to Mrs. Hudson . 
Miss Garland , she had told him , was in the back garden with Roderick he might go out to them . 
He did so , and as he drew near he heard Roderick's high pitched voice ringing behind the shrubbery . 
In a moment , emerging , he found Miss Garland leaning against a tree , with her cousin before her talking with great emphasis . 
He asked pardon for interrupting them , and said he wished only to bid her good by . 
She gave him her hand and he made her his bow in silence . 
Don't forget , he said to Roderick , as he turned away . 
And don't , in this company , repent of your bargain . 
I shall not let him , said Miss Garland , with something very like gayety . 
I shall see that he is punctual . 
He must go ! I owe you an apology for having doubted that he ought to . 
And in spite of the dusk Rowland could see that she had an even finer smile than he had supposed . 
Roderick was punctual , eagerly punctual , and they went . 
Rowland for several days was occupied with material cares , and lost sight of his sentimental perplexities . 
But they only slumbered , and they were sharply awakened . 
The weather was fine , and the two young men always sat together upon deck late into the evening . 
One night , toward the last , they were at the stern of the great ship , watching her grind the solid blackness of the ocean into phosphorescent foam . 
They talked on these occasions of everything conceivable , and had the air of having no secrets from each other . 
But it was on Roderick's conscience that this air belied him , and he was too frank by nature , moreover , for permanent reticence on any point . 
I must tell you something , he said at last . 
I should like you to know it , and you will be so glad to know it . 
Besides , it 's only a question of time three months hence , probably , you would have guessed it . 
I am engaged to Mary Garland . 
Rowland sat staring though the sea was calm , it seemed to him that the ship gave a great dizzying lurch . 
But in a moment he contrived to answer coherently Engaged to Miss Garland ! I never supposed I never imagined That I was in love with her ? Roderick interrupted . 
Neither did I , until this last fortnight . 
But you came and put me into such ridiculous good humor that I felt an extraordinary desire to tell some woman that I adored her . 
Miss Garland is a magnificent girl you know her too little to do her justice . 
I have been quietly learning to know her , these past three months , and have been falling in love with her without being conscious of it . 
It appeared , when I spoke to her , that she had a kindness for me . 
So the thing was settled . 
I must of course make some money before we can marry . 
It 's rather droll , certainly , to engage one's self to a girl whom one is going to leave the next day , for years . 
We shall be condemned , for some time to come , to do a terrible deal of abstract thinking about each other . 
But I wanted her blessing on my career and I could not help asking for it . 
If ever I am a dull companion and over addicted to moping , remember in justice to me that I am in love and that my sweetheart is five thousand miles away . 
Rowland listened to all this with a sort of feeling that fortune had played him an elaborately devised trick . 
Yes , he said , after an attempt at the usual formal congratulation , you certainly ought to do better with Miss Garland waiting for you at Northampton . 
Roderick , now that he had broken ground , was eloquent and rung a hundred changes on the assurance that he was a very happy man . 
Then at last , suddenly , his climax was a yawn , and he declared that he must go to bed . 
Rowland let him go alone , and sat there late , between sea and sky . 
Rome One warm , still day , late in the Roman autumn , our two young men were sitting beneath one of the high stemmed pines of the Villa Ludovisi . 
Then they had wandered out into the gardens , and were lounging away the morning under the spell of their magical picturesqueness . 
Roderick declared that he would go nowhere else that , after the Juno , it was a profanation to look at anything but sky and trees . 
There was a fresco of Guercino , to which Rowland , though he had seen it on his former visit to Rome , went dutifully to pay his respects . 
But Roderick , though he had never seen it , declared that it could n't be worth a fig , and that he did n't care to look at ugly things . 
When the latter came back , his friend was sitting with his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands . 
Very likely , said Roderick , throwing himself back with a yawn . 
But I must let it pass . 
I have seen enough for the present I have reached the top of the hill . 
I have an indigestion of impressions I must work them off before I go in for any more . 
I don't want to look at any more of other people's works , for a month not even at Nature's own . 
I want to look at Roderick Hudson's . 
The result of it all is that I 'm not afraid . 
I can but try , as well as the rest of them ! The fellow who did that gazing goddess yonder only made an experiment . 
The other day , when I was looking at Michael Angelo's Moses , I was seized with a kind of defiance a reaction against all this mere passive enjoyment of grandeur . 
Success is only passionate effort . 
Well , the passion is blazing we have been piling on fuel handsomely . 
It came over me just now that it is exactly three months to a day since I left Northampton . 
I can't believe it ! It certainly seems more . 
It seems like ten years . 
What an exquisite ass I was ! Do you feel so wise now ? Verily ! Don't I look so ? Surely I have n't the same face . 
Have n't I a different eye , a different expression , a different voice ? I can hardly say , because I have seen the transition . 
But it 's very likely . 
You are , in the literal sense of the word , more civilized . 
I dare say , added Rowland , that Miss Garland would think so . 
That 's not what she would call it she would say I was corrupted . 
Rowland asked few questions about Miss Garland , but he always listened narrowly to his companion's voluntary observations . 
Are you very sure ? he replied . 
Why , she 's a stern moralist , and she would infer from my appearance that I had become a cynical sybarite . 
Roderick had , in fact , a Venetian watch chain round his neck and a magnificent Roman intaglio on the third finger of his left hand . 
She is a moralist , but not , as you imply , a narrow one . 
That 's more than a difference in degree it 's a difference in kind . 
I don't know whether I ever mentioned it , but I admire her extremely . 
There is nothing narrow about her but her experience everything else is large . 
My impression of her is of a person of great capacity , as yet wholly unmeasured and untested . 
Some day or other , I 'm sure , she will judge fairly and wisely of everything . 
Stay a bit ! cried Roderick you 're a better Catholic than the Pope . 
I shall be content if she judges fairly of me of my merits , that is . 
The rest she must not judge at all . 
She 's a grimly devoted little creature may she always remain so ! Changed as I am , I adore her none the less . 
But others come treading on their heels and sweeping them along , and they all melt like water into water and settle the question of precedence among themselves . 
I fancy it is our peculiar good luck that we don't see the limits of our minds , said Rowland . 
We are young , compared with what we may one day be . 
That belongs to youth it is perhaps the best part of it . 
They say that old people do find themselves at last face to face with a solid blank wall , and stand thumping against it in vain . 
Yes , let us close no doors that open upon Rome . 
For this , for the mind , is eternal summer ! But though my doors may stand open to day , he presently added , I shall see no visitors . 
I want to pause and breathe I want to dream of a statue . 
I have been working hard for three months I have earned a right to a reverie . 
Rowland , on his side , was not without provision for reflection , and they lingered on in broken , desultory talk . 
As he looked back on these full flavored weeks , he drew a long breath of satisfaction , almost of relief . 
Roderick , thus far , had justified his confidence and flattered his perspicacity he was rapidly unfolding into an ideal brilliancy . 
Rowland had been struck at the outset with the instinctive quickness of his observation and his free appropriation of whatever might serve his purpose . 
At the end of a month , he presented , mentally , a puzzling spectacle to his companion . 
He had caught , instinctively , the key note of the old world . 
But we must live as our pulses are timed , and Roderick's struck the hour very often . 
He had a relish for social subtleties and mysteries , and , in perception , when occasion offered him an inch he never failed to take an ell . 
Hudson asked Rowland questions which poor Rowland was quite unable to answer , and of which he was equally unable to conceive where he had picked up the data . 
Rowland told him that when he turned sculptor a capital novelist was spoiled , and that to match his eye for social detail one would have to go to Honore de Balzac . 
In all this Rowland took a generous pleasure he felt an especial kindness for his comrade's radiant youthfulness of temperament . 
He was so much younger than he himself had ever been ! And surely youth and genius , hand in hand , were the most beautiful sight in the world . 
Roderick added to this the charm of his more immediately personal qualities . 
They had gone almost immediately to Paris , and had spent their days at the Louvre and their evenings at the theatre . 
Roderick was divided in mind as to whether Titian or Mademoiselle Delaporte was the greater artist . 
They had come down through France to Genoa and Milan , had spent a fortnight in Venice and another in Florence , and had now been a month in Rome . 
Roderick had said that he meant to spend three months in simply looking , absorbing , and reflecting , without putting pencil to paper . 
He looked indefatigably , and certainly saw great things things greater , doubtless , at times , than the intentions of the artist . 
And yet he made few false steps and wasted little time in theories of what he ought to like and to dislike . 
He judged instinctively and passionately , but never vulgarly . 
In Rome his first care was for the Vatican he went there again and again . 
But the old imperial and papal city altogether delighted him only there he really found what he had been looking for from the first the complete antipodes of Northampton . 
It is the immemorial city of convention . 
The stagnant Roman air is charged with convention it colors the yellow light and deepens the chilly shadows . 
Roderick's first fortnight was a high aesthetic revel . 
And he gave Rowland to understand that he meant to live freely and largely , and be as interested as occasion demanded . 
Rowland took immense satisfaction in his companion's deep impatience to make something of all his impressions . 
Some of these indeed found their way into a channel which did not lead to statues , but it was none the less a safe one . 
He received punctual answers of a more frugal form , written in a clear , minute hand , on paper vexatiously thin . 
If Rowland was present when they came , he turned away and thought of other things or tried to . 
These were the only moments when his sympathy halted , and they were brief . 
For the rest he let the days go by unprotestingly , and enjoyed Roderick's serene efflorescence as he would have done a beautiful summer sunrise . 
Rome , for the past month , had been delicious . 
The annual descent of the Goths had not yet begun , and sunny leisure seemed to brood over the city . 
Roderick had taken out a note book and was roughly sketching a memento of the great Juno . 
Suddenly there was a noise on the gravel , and the young men , looking up , saw three persons advancing . 
One was a woman of middle age , with a rather grand air and a great many furbelows . 
She looked very hard at our friends as she passed , and glanced back over her shoulder , as if to hasten the step of a young girl who slowly followed her . 
She had such an expansive majesty of mien that Rowland supposed she must have some proprietary right in the villa and was not just then in a hospitable mood . 
Beside her walked a little elderly man , tightly buttoned in a shabby black coat , but with a flower in his lappet , and a pair of soiled light gloves . 
He was a grotesque looking personage , and might have passed for a gentleman of the old school , reduced by adversity to playing cicerone to foreigners of distinction . 
He was smiling with extreme urbanity , and talking in a low , mellifluous voice to the lady , who evidently was not listening to him . 
At a considerable distance behind this couple strolled a young girl , apparently of about twenty . 
She was tall and slender , and dressed with extreme elegance she led by a cord a large poodle of the most fantastic aspect . 
He stepped along stiffly and solemnly beside his mistress , with an air of conscious elegance . 
The young girl perceived it and turned her face full upon him , with a gaze intended apparently to enforce greater deference . 
It was not deference , however , her face provoked , but startled , submissive admiration Roderick's smile fell dead , and he sat eagerly staring . 
The young lady was walking slowly and letting her long dress rustle over the gravel the young men had time to see her distinctly before she averted her face and went her way . 
She left a vague , sweet perfume behind her as she passed . 
What a movement , what a manner , what a poise of the head ! I wonder if she would sit to me . 
You had better go and ask her , said Rowland , laughing . 
She is certainly most beautiful . 
Beautiful ? She 's beauty itself she 's a revelation . 
I don't believe she is living she 's a phantasm , a vapor , an illusion ! The poodle , said Rowland , is certainly alive . 
Nay , he too may be a grotesque phantom , like the black dog in Faust . 
I hope at least that the young lady has nothing in common with Mephistopheles . 
If beauty is immoral , as people think at Northampton , said Roderick , she is the incarnation of evil . 
The mamma and the queer old gentleman , moreover , are a pledge of her reality . 
Who are they all ? The Prince and Princess Ludovisi and the principessina , suggested Rowland . 
There are no such people , said Roderick . 
Besides , the little old man is not the papa . 
Rowland smiled , wondering how he had ascertained these facts , and the young sculptor went on . 
The old man is a Roman , a hanger on of the mamma , a useful personage who now and then gets asked to dinner . 
The ladies are foreigners , from some Northern country I won't say which . 
Perhaps from the State of Maine , said Rowland . 
No , she 's not an American , I 'll lay a wager on that . 
She 's a daughter of this elder world . 
We shall see her again , I pray my stars but if we don't , I shall have done something I never expected to I shall have had a glimpse of ideal beauty . 
He sat down again and went on with his sketch of the Juno , scrawled away for ten minutes , and then handed the result in silence to Rowland . 
Rowland uttered an exclamation of surprise and applause . 
Roderick went to work and spent a month shut up in his studio he had an idea , and he was not to rest till he had embodied it . 
Angelo , tipped with its seraphic statue , the dome of St . 
Peter's , and the broad topped pines of the Villa Doria . 
The place was crumbling and shabby and melancholy , but the river was delightful , the rent was a trifle , and everything was picturesque . 
Roderick was in the best humor with his quarters from the first , and was certain that the working mood there would be intenser in an hour than in twenty years of Northampton . 
Roderick had lodged himself economically in the same quarter . 
But Rowland had two substantial aids for giving patience the air of contentment he was an inquisitive reader and a passionate rider . 
He plunged into bulky German octavos on Italian history , and he spent long afternoons in the saddle , ranging over the grassy desolation of the Campagna . 
As the season went on and the social groups began to constitute themselves , he found that he knew a great many people and that he had easy opportunity for knowing others . 
He introduced Roderick right and left , and suffered him to make his way himself an enterprise for which Roderick very soon displayed an all sufficient capacity . 
Wherever he went he made , not exactly what is called a favorable impression , but what , from a practical point of view , is better a puzzling one . 
He took to evening parties as a duck to water , and before the winter was half over was the most freely and frequently discussed young man in the heterogeneous foreign colony . 
Roderick's manners on the precincts of the Pincian were quite the same as his manners on Cecilia's veranda that is , they were no manners at all . 
But it remained as true as before that it would have been impossible , on the whole , to violate ceremony with less of lasting offense . 
But to Rowland and to most friendly observers this judgment was quite beside the mark , and the young man's undiluted naturalness was its own justification . 
There were persons who waited on your periods much more deferentially , who were a hundred times more capable than Roderick of a reflective impertinence . 
alluded to when they spoke of his delightful freshness , and critics of harsher sensibilities when they denounced his damned impertinence . 
His appearance enforced these impressions his handsome face , his radiant , unaverted eyes , his childish , unmodulated voice . 
Afterwards , when those who loved him were in tears , there was something in all this unspotted comeliness that seemed to lend a mockery to the causes of their sorrow . 
Certainly , among the young men of genius who , for so many ages , have gone up to Rome to test their powers , none ever made a fairer beginning than Roderick . 
He rode his two horses at once with extraordinary good fortune he established the happiest modus vivendi betwixt work and play . 
He wrestled all day with a mountain of clay in his studio , and chattered half the night away in Roman drawing rooms . 
It all seemed part of a kind of divine facility . 
He enjoyed immeasurably , after the chronic obstruction of home , the downright act of production . 
He had promptly set up a life sized figure which he called an Adam , and was pushing it rapidly toward completion . 
They were right , but Roderick was right too , for the success of his statue was not to have been foreseen it partook , really , of the miraculous . 
He never surpassed it afterwards , and a good judge here and there has been known to pronounce it the finest piece of sculpture of our modern era . 
There was something especially confident and masterly in the artist's negligence of all such small picturesque accessories as might serve to label his figure to a vulgar apprehension . 
at the inn , and lounged away the day in the sun on the top of Monte Cavo . 
Roderick's head was full of ideas for other works , which he described with infinite spirit and eloquence , as vividly as if they were ranged on their pedestals before him . 
The Adam was put into marble , and all the world came to see it . 
But people enough spoke flattering good sense to make Roderick feel as if he were already half famous . 
The statue passed formally into Rowland's possession , and was paid for as if an illustrious name had been chiseled on the pedestal . 
Poor Roderick owed every franc of the money . 
This went forward with equal rapidity and success . 
The Eve was finished in a month , and the feat was extraordinary , as well as the statue , which represented an admirably beautiful woman . 
When the spring began to muffle the rugged old city with its clambering festoons , it seemed to him that he had done a handsome winter's work and had fairly earned a holiday . 
He took a liberal one , and lounged away the lovely Roman May , doing nothing . 
He looked very contented with himself , perhaps , at times , a trifle too obviously . 
But who could have said without good reason ? He was flushed with triumph this classic phrase portrayed him , to Rowland's sense . 
He would lose himself in long reveries , and emerge from them with a quickened smile and a heightened color . 
Rowland grudged him none of his smiles , and took an extreme satisfaction in his two statues . 
He had the Adam and the Eve transported to his own apartment , and one warm evening in May he gave a little dinner in honor of the artist . 
It was small , but Rowland had meant it should be very agreeably composed . 
He thought over his friends and chose four . 
They were all persons with whom he lived in a certain intimacy . 
One of them was an American sculptor of French extraction , or remotely , perhaps , of Italian , for he rejoiced in the somewhat fervid name of Gloriani . 
In his youth he had had money but he had spent it recklessly , much of it scandalously , and at twenty six had found himself obliged to make capital of his talent . 
This was quite inimitable , and fifteen years of indefatigable exercise had brought it to perfection . 
He had a definite , practical scheme of art , and he knew at least what he meant . 
In this sense he was solid and complete . 
These were considered by most people to belong to a very corrupt , and by many to a positively indecent school . 
Corrupt things they certainly were in the line of sculpture they were quite the latest fruit of time . 
Its prime duty is to amuse , to puzzle , to fascinate , to savor of a complex imagination . 
Gloriani's statues were florid and meretricious they looked like magnified goldsmith's work . 
They were extremely elegant , but they had no charm for Rowland . 
He never bought one , but Gloriani was such an honest fellow , and withal was so deluged with orders , that this made no difference in their friendship . 
The artist might have passed for a Frenchman . 
He was a great talker , and a very picturesque one he was almost bald he had a small , bright eye , a broken nose , and a moustache with waxed ends . 
When sometimes he received you at his lodging , he introduced you to a lady with a plain face whom he called Madame Gloriani which she was not . 
Rowland's second guest was also an artist , but of a very different type . 
His friends called him Sam Singleton he was an American , and he had been in Rome a couple of years . 
Rowland took a fancy to him and bought several of his pictures Singleton made few speeches , but was grateful . 
Rowland heard afterwards that when he first came to Rome he painted worthless daubs and gave no promise of talent . 
Improvement had come , however , hand in hand with patient industry , and his talent , though of a slender and delicate order , was now incontestable . 
It was as yet but scantily recognized , and he had hard work to live . 
Rowland hung his little water colors on the parlor wall , and found that , as he lived with them , he grew very fond of them . 
Singleton was a diminutive , dwarfish personage he looked like a precocious child . 
He had a high , protuberant forehead , a transparent brown eye , a perpetual smile , an extraordinary expression of modesty and patience . 
His modesty set them off , and they were eminently to the point . 
Singleton had expressed a fervent admiration for Roderick's productions , but had not yet met the young master . 
Roderick was lounging against the chimney piece when he came in , and Rowland presently introduced him . 
The little water colorist stood with folded hands , blushing , smiling , and looking up at him as if Roderick were himself a statue on a pedestal . 
Singleton began to murmur something about his pleasure , his admiration the desire to make his compliment smoothly gave him a kind of grotesque formalism . 
Roderick looked down at him surprised , and suddenly burst into a laugh . 
She was an American , she was young , she was pretty , and she had made her way to Rome alone and unaided . 
Miss Blanchard had a little money , but she was not above selling her pictures . 
She did backs very well , but she was a little weak in faces . 
Flowers , however , were her speciality , and though her touch was a little old fashioned and finical , she painted them with remarkable skill . 
Her pictures were chiefly bought by the English . 
Rowland had made her acquaintance early in the winter , and as she kept a saddle horse and rode a great deal , he had asked permission to be her cavalier . 
In this way they had become almost intimate . 
Miss Blanchard's name was Augusta she was slender , pale , and elegant looking she had a very pretty head and brilliant auburn hair , which she braided with classical simplicity . 
She talked in a sweet , soft voice , used language at times a trifle superfine , and made literary allusions . 
He admired her , and indeed there was something admirable in her combination of beauty and talent , of isolation and tranquil self support . 
She received him with a meek eyed dignity that made her seem like a painted saint on a church window , receiving the daylight in all her being . 
The breath of reproach passed her by with folded wings . 
And yet Rowland wondered why he did not like her better . 
If he failed , the reason was not far to seek . 
There was another woman whom he liked better , an image in his heart which refused to yield precedence . 
And every day since , like a famous philosopher who wished to abbreviate his mourning for a faithful servant , he had said to himself in substance Remember to forget Mary Garland . 
All this made him uncomfortable , and seemed to portend a possible discord . 
Discord was not to his taste he shrank from imperious passions , and the idea of finding himself jealous of an unsuspecting friend was absolutely repulsive . 
More than ever , then , the path of duty was to forget Mary Garland , and he cultivated oblivion , as we may say , in the person of Miss Blanchard . 
Her fine temper , he said to himself , was a trifle cold and conscious , her purity prudish , perhaps , her culture pedantic . 
Miss Blanchard had beautiful hair , and if she was a trifle old maidish , there is nothing like matrimony for curing old maidishness . 
She had been the widow of a German archaeologist , who had come to Rome in the early ages as an attache of the Prussian legation on the Capitoline . 
Her good sense had been wanting on but a single occasion , that of her second marriage . 
This occasion was certainly a momentous one , but these , by common consent , are not test cases . 
The marriage was most unhappy , and the Maestro Grandoni was suspected of using the fiddle bow as an instrument of conjugal correction . 
He had finally run off with a prima donna assoluta , who , it was to be hoped , had given him a taste of the quality implied in her title . 
He was believed to be living still , but he had shrunk to a small black spot in Madame Grandoni's life , and for ten years she had not mentioned his name . 
She wore a light flaxen wig , which was never very artfully adjusted , but this mattered little , as she made no secret of it . 
She used to say , I was not always so ugly as this as a young girl I had beautiful golden hair , very much the color of my wig . 
Rowland had a great regard for her , and she repaid it by wishing him to get married . 
She never saw him without whispering to him that Augusta Blanchard was just the girl . 
It seemed to Rowland a sort of foreshadowing of matrimony to see Miss Blanchard standing gracefully on his hearth rug and blooming behind the central bouquet at his circular dinner table . 
The dinner was very prosperous and Roderick amply filled his position as hero of the feast . 
He had always an air of buoyant enjoyment in his work , but on this occasion he manifested a good deal of harmless pleasure in his glory . 
He drank freely and talked bravely he leaned back in his chair with his hands in his pockets , and flung open the gates of his eloquence . 
Singleton sat gazing and listening open mouthed , as if Apollo in person were talking . 
Gloriani showed a twinkle in his eye and an evident disposition to draw Roderick out . 
Rowland was rather regretful , for he knew that theory was not his friend's strong point , and that it was never fair to take his measure from his talk . 
As you have begun with Adam and Eve , said Gloriani , I suppose you are going straight through the Bible . 
He was one of the persons who thought Roderick delightfully fresh . 
I may make a David , said Roderick , but I shall not try any more of the Old Testament people . 
I don't like the Jews I don't like pendulous noses . 
David , the boy David , is rather an exception you can think of him and treat him as a young Greek . 
Standing forth there on the plain of battle between the contending armies , rushing forward to let fly his stone , he looks like a beautiful runner at the Olympic games . 
After that I shall skip to the New Testament . 
I mean to make a Christ . 
You 'll put nothing of the Olympic games into him , I hope , said Gloriani . 
Oh , I shall make him very different from the Christ of tradition more more and Roderick paused a moment to think . 
This was the first that Rowland had heard of his Christ . 
More rationalistic , I suppose , suggested Miss Blanchard . 
More idealistic ! cried Roderick . 
The perfection of form , you know , to symbolize the perfection of spirit . 
For a companion piece , said Miss Blanchard , you ought to make a Judas . 
Never ! I mean never to make anything ugly . 
He should be a very handsome fellow , and he should lift up the murderous club with the beautiful movement of the fighters in the Greek friezes who are chopping at their enemies . 
There 's no use trying to be a Greek , said Gloriani . 
If Phidias were to come back , he would recommend you to give it up . 
I am half Italian and half French , and , as a whole , a Yankee . 
What sort of a Greek should I make ? I think the Judas is a capital idea for a statue . 
Much obliged to you , madame , for the suggestion . 
Very likely , said Roderick . 
But it is not the sort of expression I care for . 
I care only for perfect beauty . 
There it is , if you want to know it ! That 's as good a profession of faith as another . 
In future , so far as my things are not positively beautiful , you may set them down as failures . 
For me , it 's either that or nothing . 
It 's against the taste of the day , I know we have really lost the faculty to understand beauty in the large , ideal way . 
We stand like a race with shrunken muscles , staring helplessly at the weights our forefathers easily lifted . 
But I don't hesitate to proclaim it I mean to lift them again ! I mean to go in for big things that 's my notion of my art . 
I mean to do things that will be simple and vast and infinite . 
You 'll see if they won't be infinite ! Excuse me if I brag a little all those Italian fellows in the Renaissance used to brag . 
And pray have a few soft sofas conveniently placed . 
Phidias and Praxiteles , Miss Blanchard remarked , had the advantage of believing in their goddesses . 
Nineteenth century nonsense , my dear ! cried Madame Grandoni . 
Mr. Hudson may be a new Phidias , but Venus and Juno that 's you and I arrived to day in a very dirty cab and were cheated by the driver , too . 
But , my dear fellow , objected Gloriani , you don't mean to say you are going to make over in cold blood those poor old exploded Apollos and Hebes . 
It won't matter what you call them , said Roderick . 
They shall be simply divine forms . 
They shall be Beauty they shall be Wisdom they shall be Power they shall be Genius they shall be Daring . 
That 's all the Greek divinities were . 
That 's rather abstract , you know , said Miss Blanchard . 
My dear fellow , cried Gloriani , you 're delightfully young . 
I hope you 'll not grow any older , said Singleton , with a flush of sympathy across his large white forehead . 
You can do it if you try . 
Then there are all the Forces and Mysteries and Elements of Nature , Roderick went on . 
I mean to do the Morning I mean to do the Night ! I mean to do the Ocean and the Mountains the Moon and the West Wind . 
I mean to make a magnificent statue of America ! America the Mountains the Moon ! said Gloriani . 
You 'll find it rather hard , I 'm afraid , to compress such subjects into classic forms . 
Oh , there 's a way , cried Roderick , and I shall think it out . 
My figures shall make no contortions , but they shall mean a tremendous deal . 
I 'm sure there are contortions enough in Michael Angelo , said Madame Grandoni . 
Perhaps you don't approve of him . 
Oh , Michael Angelo was not me ! said Roderick , with sublimity . 
There was a great laugh but after all , Roderick had done some fine things . 
Rowland had bidden one of the servants bring him a small portfolio of prints , and had taken out a photograph of Roderick's little statue of the youth drinking . 
He silently handed him the photograph . 
Bless me ! cried Gloriani , did he do this ? Ages ago , said Roderick . 
Gloriani looked at the photograph a long time , with evident admiration . 
It 's deucedly pretty , he said at last . 
But , my dear young friend , you can't keep this up . 
I shall do better , said Roderick . 
You will do worse ! You will become weak . 
You will have to take to violence , to contortions , to romanticism , in self defense . 
This sort of thing is like a man trying to lift himself up by the seat of his trousers . 
He may stand on tiptoe , but he can't do more . 
Here you stand on tiptoe , very gracefully , I admit but you can't fly there 's no use trying . 
My 'America' shall answer you ! said Roderick , shaking toward him a tall glass of champagne and drinking it down . 
Singleton had taken the photograph and was poring over it with a little murmur of delight . 
Was this done in America ? he asked . 
In a square white wooden house at Northampton , Massachusetts , Roderick answered . 
Dear old white wooden houses ! said Miss Blanchard . 
If you could do as well as this there , said Singleton , blushing and smiling , one might say that really you had only to lose by coming to Rome . 
Mallet is to blame for that , said Roderick . 
But I am willing to risk the loss . 
The photograph had been passed to Madame Grandoni . 
It reminds me , she said , of the things a young man used to do whom I knew years ago , when I first came to Rome . 
He was a German , a pupil of Overbeck and a votary of spiritual art . 
He used to wear a black velvet tunic and a very low shirt collar he had a neck like a sickly crane , and let his hair grow down to his shoulders . 
His name was Herr Schafgans . 
He would not have agreed with Gloriani any more than you . 
He used to come and see me very often , and in those days I thought his tunic and his long neck infallible symptoms of genius . 
His talk was all of gilded aureoles and beatific visions he lived on weak wine and biscuits , and wore a lock of Saint Somebody's hair in a little bag round his neck . 
If he was not a Beato Angelico , it was not his own fault . 
He offered to marry her , and she looked at him from head to foot , gave a shrug , and consented . 
But he was ashamed to set up his menage in Rome . 
They went to Naples , and there , a couple of years afterwards , I saw him . 
The poor fellow was ruined . 
His wife used to beat him , and he had taken to drinking . 
He wore a ragged black coat , and he had a blotchy , red face . 
Madame had turned washerwoman and used to make him go and fetch the dirty linen . 
His talent had gone heaven knows where ! He was getting his living by painting views of Vesuvius in eruption on the little boxes they sell at Sorrento . 
Moral don't fall in love with a buxom Roman model , said Roderick . 
I 'm much obliged to you for your story , but I don't mean to fall in love with any one . 
Gloriani had possessed himself of the photograph again , and was looking at it curiously . 
It 's a happy bit of youth , he said . 
But you can't keep it up you can't keep it up ! The two sculptors pursued their discussion after dinner , in the drawing room . 
Singleton was listening to Madame Grandoni , and Rowland took his place on the sofa , near Miss Blanchard . 
They had a good deal of familiar , desultory talk . 
Every now and then Madame Grandoni looked round at them . 
Rowland answered her questions to the last he gave a vague affirmative . 
Finally , after a pause , looking at him , You 're very generous , Miss Blanchard said . 
The declaration was made with a certain richness of tone , but it brought to Rowland's sense neither delight nor confusion . 
He had heard the words before he suddenly remembered the grave sincerity with which Miss Garland had uttered them as he strolled with her in the woods the day of Roderick's picnic . 
They had pleased him then now he asked Miss Blanchard whether she would have some tea . 
When the two ladies withdrew , he attended them to their carriage . 
Coming back to the drawing room , he paused outside the open door he was struck by the group formed by the three men . 
They were standing before Roderick's statue of Eve , and the young sculptor had lifted up the lamp and was showing different parts of it to his companions . 
He was talking ardently , and the lamplight covered his head and face . 
Rowland stood looking on , for the group struck him with its picturesque symbolism . 
Roderick , bearing the lamp and glowing in its radiant circle , seemed the beautiful image of a genius which combined sincerity with power . 
In all this , Roderick's was certainly the beau role . 
Gloriani turned to Rowland as he came up , and pointed back with his thumb to the statue , with a smile half sardonic , half good natured . 
A pretty thing a devilish pretty thing , he said . 
It 's as fresh as the foam in the milk pail . 
He can do it once , he can do it twice , he can do it at a stretch half a dozen times . 
But but He was returning to his former refrain , but Rowland intercepted him . 
Oh , he will keep it up , he said , smiling , I will answer for him . 
Gloriani was not encouraging , but Roderick had listened smiling . 
He was floating unperturbed on the tide of his deep self confidence . 
My dear fellow , passion burns out , inspiration runs to seed . 
He must learn to do without the Muse ! When the fickle jade forgets the way to your studio , don't waste any time in tearing your hair and meditating on suicide . 
Come round and see me , and I will show you how to console yourself . 
If I break down , said Roderick , passionately , I shall stay down . 
If the Muse deserts me , she shall at least have her infidelity on her conscience . 
You have no business , Rowland said to Gloriani , to talk lightly of the Muse in this company . 
Mr. Singleton , too , has received pledges from her which place her constancy beyond suspicion . 
And he pointed out on the wall , near by , two small landscapes by the modest water colorist . 
The sculptor examined them with deference , and Singleton himself began to laugh nervously he was trembling with hope that the great Gloriani would be pleased . 
Yes , these are fresh too , Gloriani said extraordinarily fresh ! How old are you ? Twenty six , sir , said Singleton . 
For twenty six they are famously fresh . 
They must have taken you a long time you work slowly . 
Yes , unfortunately , I work very slowly . 
One of them took me six weeks , the other two months . 
Upon my word ! The Muse pays you long visits . 
And Gloriani turned and looked , from head to foot , at so unlikely an object of her favors . 
Singleton smiled and began to wipe his forehead very hard . 
He could have fancied that the fatal hour foretold by Gloriani had struck . 
Roderick rose with a sombre yawn and flung down his tools . 
A difficult place ? Rowland asked , with a sympathetic inflection , looking vaguely at the roughly modeled figure . 
Oh , it 's not the poor clay ! Roderick answered . 
The difficult place is here ! And he struck a blow on his heart . 
I don't know what 's the matter with me . 
Nothing comes all of a sudden I hate things . 
My old things look ugly everything looks stupid . 
He was in the situation of a man who has been riding a blood horse at an even , elastic gallop , and of a sudden feels him stumble and balk . 
As yet , he reflected , he had seen nothing but the sunshine of genius he had forgotten that it has its storms . 
Of course it had ! And he felt a flood of comradeship rise in his heart which would float them both safely through the worst weather . 
Why , you 're tired ! he said . 
Of course you 're tired . 
You have a right to be ! Do you think I have a right to be ? Roderick asked , looking at him . 
Unquestionably , after all you have done . 
Well , then , right or wrong , I am tired . 
I certainly have done a fair winter's work . 
Rowland declared that it was certainly high time they should be leaving Rome . 
They would go north and travel . 
They would go to Switzerland , to Germany , to Holland , to England . 
Roderick assented , his eye brightened , and Rowland talked of a dozen things they might do . 
Roderick walked up and down he seemed to have something to say which he hesitated to bring out . 
He hesitated so rarely that Rowland wondered , and at last asked him what was on his mind . 
Roderick stopped before him , frowning a little . 
I have such unbounded faith in your good will , he said , that I believe nothing I can say would offend you . 
Try it , said Rowland . 
Well , then , I think my journey will do me more good if I take it alone . 
I need n't say I prefer your society to that of any man living . 
For the last six months it has been everything to me . 
But I have a perpetual feeling that you are expecting something of me , that you are measuring my doings by a terrifically high standard . 
You are watching me I don't want to be watched . 
I want to go my own way to work when I choose and to loaf when I choose . 
It is not that I don't know what I owe you it is not that we are not friends . 
It is simply that I want a taste of absolutely unrestricted freedom . 
Therefore , I say , let us separate . 
Rowland shook him by the hand . 
Do as you desire , I shall miss you , and I venture to believe you 'll pass some lonely hours . 
But I have only one request to make that if you get into trouble of any kind whatever , you will immediately let me know . 
They began their journey , however , together , and crossed the Alps side by side , muffled in one rug , on the top of the St . 
Rowland was going to England to pay some promised visits his companion had no plan save to ramble through Switzerland and Germany as fancy guided him . 
He had money , now , that would outlast the summer when it was spent he would come back to Rome and make another statue . 
The coach overtook them , and then Rowland , as he prepared to mount , felt an almost overmastering reluctance . 
Say the word , he exclaimed , and I will stop too . 
Ah , you don't trust me you don't think I 'm able to take care of myself . 
That proves that I was right in feeling as if I were watched ! Watched , my dear fellow ! said Rowland . 
I hope you may never have anything worse to complain of than being watched in the spirit in which I watch you . 
But I will spare you even that . 
Good by ! Standing in his place , as the coach rolled away , he looked back at his friend lingering by the roadside . 
A great snow mountain , behind Roderick , was beginning to turn pink in the sunset . 
The young man waved his hat , still looking grave . 
Rowland settled himself in his place , reflecting after all that this was a salubrious beginning of independence . 
He was among forests and glaciers , leaning on the pure bosom of nature . 
And then and then was it not in itself a guarantee against folly to be engaged to Mary Garland ? CHAPTER IV . 
Experience Rowland passed the summer in England , staying with several old friends and two or three new ones . 
On his arrival , he felt it on his conscience to write to Mrs. Hudson and inform her that her son had relieved him of his tutelage . 
He felt that she considered him an incorruptible Mentor , following Roderick like a shadow , and he wished to let her know the truth . 
But he made the truth very comfortable , and gave a succinct statement of the young man's brilliant beginnings . 
He owed it to himself , he said , to remind her that he had not judged lightly , and that Roderick's present achievements were more profitable than his inglorious drudgery at Messrs . 
He was now taking a well earned holiday and proposing to see a little of the world . 
He would work none the worse for this every artist needed to knock about and look at things for himself . 
They had parted company for a couple of months , for Roderick was now a great man and beyond the need of going about with a keeper . 
But they were to meet again in Rome in the autumn , and then he should be able to send her more good news . 
Meanwhile , he was very happy in what Roderick had already done especially happy in the happiness it must have brought to her . 
He ventured to ask to be kindly commended to Miss Garland . 
His letter was promptly answered to his surprise in Miss Garland's own hand . 
The same mail brought also an epistle from Cecilia . 
The latter was voluminous , and we must content ourselves with giving an extract . 
Your letter was filled with an echo of that brilliant Roman world , which made me almost ill with envy . 
For a week after I got it I thought Northampton really unpardonably tame . 
But I am drifting back again to my old deeps of resignation , and I rush to the window , when any one passes , with all my old gratitude for small favors . 
So Roderick Hudson is already a great man , and you turn out to be a great prophet ? My compliments to both of you I never heard of anything working so smoothly . 
But from what you tell me , Mr. Striker may now go hang himself . 
There is one thing , however , to say as a friend , in the way of warning . 
That candid soul can keep a secret , and he may have private designs on your equanimity which you don't begin to suspect . 
Mrs. Hudson did , at least Miss Garland , I suppose , sat at home writing letters . 
To me , I confess , the thing was a perfect surprise . 
I had not a suspicion that all the while he was coming so regularly to make himself agreeable on my veranda , he was quietly preferring his cousin to any one else . 
Not , indeed , that he was ever at particular pains to make himself agreeable ! I suppose he has picked up a few graces in Rome . 
But he must not acquire too many if he is too polite when he comes back , Miss Garland will count him as one of the lost . 
She will be a very good wife for a man of genius , and such a one as they are often shrewd enough to take . 
The two ladies are evidently very happy , and , to do them justice , very humbly grateful to you . 
Mrs. Hudson never speaks of you without tears in her eyes , and I am sure she considers you a specially patented agent of Providence . 
Verily , it 's a good thing for a woman to be in love Miss Garland has grown almost pretty . 
I met her the other night at a tea party she had a white rose in her hair , and sang a sentimental ballad in a fine contralto voice . 
She requests me , therefore , to answer your favor of the d of June . 
She thanks you extremely for writing , and wishes me to say that she considers herself in every way under great obligations to you . 
Your account of her son's progress and the high estimation in which he is held has made her very happy , and she earnestly prays that all may continue well with him . 
He sent us , a short time ago , several large photographs of his two statues , taken from different points of view . 
We know little about such things , but they seem to us wonderfully beautiful . 
The frames are magnificent , and the pictures now hang in a row on the parlor wall . 
Our only quarrel with them is that they make the old papering and the engravings look dreadfully shabby . 
We lead here so quiet and monotonous a life that I am afraid I can tell you nothing that will interest you . 
She thanks Heaven he has so good a friend . 
Mrs. Hudson says that this is too short a letter , but I can say nothing more . 
Yours most respectfully , Mary Garland . 
It is a question whether the reader will know why , but this letter gave Rowland extraordinary pleasure . 
He liked its very brevity and meagreness , and there seemed to him an exquisite modesty in its saying nothing from the young girl herself . 
He delighted in the formal address and conclusion they pleased him as he had been pleased by an angular gesture in some expressive girlish figure in an early painting . 
The letter renewed that impression of strong feeling combined with an almost rigid simplicity , which Roderick's betrothed had personally given him . 
And its homely stiffness seemed a vivid reflection of a life concentrated , as the young girl had borrowed warrant from her companion to say , in a single devoted idea . 
He was left to vain conjectures , however , as to Roderick's actual moods and occupations . 
He knew he was no letter writer , and that , in the young sculptor's own phrase , he had at any time rather build a monument than write a note . 
A week afterwards came an answer brief , and dated Baden Baden . 
I know I have been a great brute , Roderick wrote , not to have sent you a word before but really I don't know what has got into me . 
I have lately learned terribly well how to be idle . 
I am afraid to think how long it is since I wrote to my mother or to Mary . 
Heaven help them poor , patient , trustful creatures ! I don't know how to tell you what I am doing . 
It seems all amusing enough while I do it , but it would make a poor show in a narrative intended for your formidable eyes . 
I found Baxter in Switzerland , or rather he found me , and he grabbed me by the arm and brought me here . 
It is a wonderful place , certainly , though , thank the Lord , Baxter departed last week , blaspheming horribly at trente et quarante . 
But you know all about it and what one does what one is liable to do . 
I have succumbed , in a measure , to the liabilities , and I wish I had some one here to give me a thundering good blowing up . 
Not you , dear friend you would draw it too mild you have too much of the milk of human kindness . 
I have fits of horrible homesickness for my studio , and I shall be devoutly grateful when the summer is over and I can go back and swing a chisel . 
I feel as if nothing but the chisel would satisfy me as if I could rush in a rage at a block of unshaped marble . 
There are a lot of the Roman people here , English and American I live in the midst of them and talk nonsense from morning till night . 
There is also some one else and to her I don't talk sense , nor , thank heaven , mean what I say . 
I confess , I need a month's work to recover my self respect . 
These lines brought Rowland no small perturbation the more , that what they seemed to point to surprised him . 
But Roderick's allusions were ambiguous , and it was possible they might simply mean that he was out of patience with a frivolous way of life and fretting wholesomely over his absent work . 
It was a very good thing , certainly , that idleness should prove , on experiment , to sit heavily on his conscience . 
Nevertheless , the letter needed , to Rowland's mind , a key the key arrived a week later . 
In common charity , Roderick wrote , lend me a hundred pounds ! I have gambled away my last franc I have made a mountain of debts . 
Send me the money first lecture me afterwards ! Rowland sent the money by return of mail then he proceeded , not to lecture , but to think . 
He hung his head he was acutely disappointed . 
He had no right to be , he assured himself but so it was . 
Roderick was young , impulsive , unpracticed in stoicism it was a hundred to one that he was to pay the usual vulgar tribute to folly . 
Rowland for a while felt a sore sense of wrath . 
He had accompanied his missive with an urgent recommendation to leave Baden Baden immediately , and an offer to meet Roderick at any point he would name . 
The answer came promptly it ran as follows Send me another fifty pounds ! I have been back to the tables . 
I will leave as soon as the money comes , and meet you at Geneva . 
There I will tell you everything . 
There is an ancient terrace at Geneva , planted with trees and studded with benches , overlooked by gravely aristocratic old dwellings and overlooking the distant Alps . 
A great many generations have made it a lounging place , a great many friends and lovers strolled there , a great many confidential talks and momentous interviews gone forward . 
Here , one morning , sitting on one of the battered green benches , Roderick , as he had promised , told his friend everything . 
He had arrived late the night before he looked tired , and yet flushed and excited . 
He made no professions of penitence , but he practiced an unmitigated frankness , and his self reprobation might be taken for granted . 
He implied in every phrase that he had done with it all , and that he was counting the hours till he could get back to work . 
We shall not rehearse his confession in detail its main outline will be sufficient . 
What could he do ? He never read , and he had no studio in one way or another he had to pass the time . 
Attached to these ladies were certain gentlemen who walked about in clouds of perfume , rose at midday , and supped at midnight . 
Roderick had found himself in the mood for thinking them very amusing fellows . 
He was surprised at his own taste , but he let it take its course . 
But the tables made such things easy half the Baden world lived by the tables . 
Roderick tried them and found that at first they smoothed his path delightfully . 
Roderick admitted it with bitterness , and then told how much measured simply financially it had cost him . 
His luck had changed the tables had ceased to back him , and he had found himself up to his knees in debt . 
Every penny had gone of the solid sum which had seemed a large equivalent of those shining statues in Rome . 
He had been an ass , but it was not irreparable he could make another statue in a couple of months . 
For heaven's sake , he said , don't play such dangerous games with your facility . 
If you have got facility , revere it , respect it , adore it , treasure it don't speculate on it . 
And he wondered what his companion , up to his knees in debt , would have done if there had been no good natured Rowland Mallet to lend a helping hand . 
But he did not formulate his curiosity audibly , and the contingency seemed not to have presented itself to Roderick's imagination . 
Rowland sat perfectly grave , on principle . 
Then Roderick began to talk of half a dozen statues that he had in his head , and set forth his design , with his usual vividness . 
Rowland at last said that it all might pass if he felt that he was really the wiser for it . 
By the wiser , he added , I mean the stronger in purpose , in will . 
Oh , don't talk about will ! Roderick answered , throwing back his head and looking at the stars . 
This conversation also took place in the open air , on the little island in the shooting Rhone where Jean Jacques has a monument . 
The will , I believe , is the mystery of mysteries . 
Who can answer for his will ? who can say beforehand that it 's strong ? There are all kinds of indefinable currents moving to and fro between one's will and one's inclinations . 
People talk as if the two things were essentially distinct on different sides of one's organism , like the heart and the liver . 
Mine , I know , are much nearer together . 
It all depends upon circumstances . 
I believe there is a certain group of circumstances possible for every man , in which his will is destined to snap like a dry twig . 
My dear boy , said Rowland , don't talk about the will being 'destined . 
The will is destiny itself . 
That 's the way to look at it . 
Look at it , my dear Rowland , Roderick answered , as you find most comfortable . 
Rowland stared , then strolled away , softly whistling to himself . 
He was unwilling to admit even to himself that this speech had really the sinister meaning it seemed to have . 
In a few days the two young men made their way back to Italy , and lingered a while in Florence before going on to Rome . 
In Florence Roderick seemed to have won back his old innocence and his preference for the pleasures of study over any others . 
Rowland began to think of the Baden episode as a bad dream , or at the worst as a mere sporadic piece of disorder , without roots in his companion's character . 
They passed a fortnight looking at pictures and exploring for out the way bits of fresco and carving , and Roderick recovered all his earlier fervor of appreciation and comment . 
In Rome he went eagerly to work again , and finished in a month two or three small things he had left standing on his departure . 
He talked the most joyous nonsense about finding himself back in his old quarters . 
He began to model a new statue a female figure , of which he had said nothing to Rowland . 
With rather less softness of contour , it would have resembled the noble statue of Agrippina in the Capitol . 
Rowland looked at it and was not sure he liked it . 
Who is it ? what does it mean ? he asked . 
Anything you please ! said Roderick , with a certain petulance . 
I call it A Reminiscence . 
Rowland then remembered that one of the Baden ladies had been statuesque , and asked no more questions . 
This , after all , was a way of profiting by experience . 
As he drew near , he recognized his friend Singleton . 
The honest little painter's face was scorched to flame color by the light of southern suns , and borrowed an even deeper crimson from his gleeful greeting of his most appreciative patron . 
He was making a careful and charming little sketch . 
On Rowland's asking him how he had spent his summer , he gave an account of his wanderings which made poor Mallet sigh with a sense of more contrasts than one . 
He had not been out of Italy , but he had been delving deep into the picturesque heart of the lovely land , and gathering a wonderful store of subjects . 
He took a devout satisfaction in his hard earned wisdom and his happy frugality . 
Rowland went the next day , by appointment , to look at his sketches , and spent a whole morning turning them over . 
Singleton talked more than he had ever done before , explained them all , and told some quaintly humorous anecdote about the production of each . 
Dear me , how I have chattered ! he said at last . 
I am afraid you had rather have looked at the things in peace and quiet . 
I did n't know I could talk so much . 
But somehow , I feel very happy I feel as if I had improved . 
That you have , said Rowland . 
I doubt whether an artist ever passed a more profitable three months . 
You must feel much more sure of yourself . 
Singleton looked for a long time with great intentness at a knot in the floor . 
Yes , he said at last , in a fluttered tone , I feel much more sure of myself . 
I have got more facility ! And he lowered his voice as if he were communicating a secret which it took some courage to impart . 
I hardly like to say it , for fear I should after all be mistaken . 
But since it strikes you , perhaps it 's true . 
It 's a great happiness I would not exchange it for a great deal of money . 
Yes , I suppose it 's a great happiness , said Rowland . 
I shall really think of you as living here in a state of scandalous bliss . 
I don't believe it 's good for an artist to be in such brutally high spirits . 
And Mr. Hudson ? he said , as Rowland was going I hope he is well and happy . 
He is very well , said Rowland . 
He is back at work again . 
When he stops , it 's to rest ! And where did he spend his summer ? The greater part of it at Baden Baden . 
Ah , that 's in the Black Forest , cried Singleton , with profound simplicity . 
They say you can make capital studies of trees there . 
No doubt , said Rowland , with a smile , laying an almost paternal hand on the little painter's yellow head . 
Unfortunately trees are not Roderick's line . 
Nevertheless , he tells me that at Baden he made some studies . 
Come when you can , by the way , he added after a moment , to his studio , and tell me what you think of something he has lately begun . 
Singleton declared that he would come delightedly , and Rowland left him to his work . 
He met a number of his last winter's friends again , and called upon Madame Grandoni , upon Miss Blanchard , and upon Gloriani , shortly after their return . 
The ladies gave an excellent account of themselves . 
Madame Grandoni had been taking sea baths at Rimini , and Miss Blanchard painting wild flowers in the Tyrol . 
Her complexion was somewhat browned , which was very becoming , and her flowers were uncommonly pretty . 
Gloriani had been in Paris and had come away in high good humor , finding no one there , in the artist world , cleverer than himself . 
He came in a few days to Roderick's studio , one afternoon when Rowland was present . 
He examined the new statue with great deference , said it was very promising , and abstained , considerately , from irritating prophecies . 
But Rowland fancied he observed certain signs of inward jubilation on the clever sculptor's part , and walked away with him to learn his private opinion . 
Certainly I liked it as well as I said , Gloriani declared in answer to Rowland's anxious query or rather I liked it a great deal better . 
I did n't say how much , for fear of making your friend angry . 
But one can leave him alone now , for he 's coming round . 
I told you he could n't keep up the transcendental style , and he has already broken down . 
Don't you see it yourself , man ? I don't particularly like this new statue , said Rowland . 
That 's because you 're a purist . 
It 's deuced clever , it 's deuced knowing , it 's deuced pretty , but it is n't the topping high art of three months ago . 
He has taken his turn sooner than I supposed . 
What has happened to him ? Has he been disappointed in love ? But that 's none of my business . 
I congratulate him on having become a practical man . 
Roderick , however , was less to be congratulated than Gloriani had taken it into his head to believe . 
But now , some mornings , it 's the very devil to get going . 
Rowland said that he supposed that this sort of thing was the lot of every artist and that the only remedy was plenty of courage and faith . 
And he reminded him of Gloriani's having forewarned him against these sterile moods the year before . 
Gloriani 's an ass ! said Roderick , almost fiercely . 
He hired a horse and began to ride with Rowland on the Campagna . 
This delicious amusement restored him in a measure to cheerfulness , but seemed to Rowland on the whole not to stimulate his industry . 
Their rides were always very long , and Roderick insisted on making them longer by dismounting in picturesque spots and stretching himself in the sun among a heap of overtangled stones . 
He let the scorching Roman luminary beat down upon him with an equanimity which Rowland found it hard to emulate . 
And yet it was perhaps by their help , after all , that Roderick secured several mornings of ardent work on his new figure , and brought it to rapid completion . 
One afternoon , when it was finished , Rowland went to look at it , and Roderick asked him for his opinion . 
What do you think yourself ? Rowland demanded , not from pusillanimity , but from real uncertainty . 
I think it is curiously bad , Roderick answered . 
It was bad from the first it has fundamental vices . 
I have shuffled them in a measure out of sight , but I have not corrected them . 
I can't I can't I can't ! he cried passionately . 
They stare me in the face they are all I see ! Rowland offered several criticisms of detail , and suggested certain practicable changes . 
But Roderick differed with him on each of these points the thing had faults enough , but they were not those faults . 
Rowland , unruffled , concluded by saying that whatever its faults might be , he had an idea people in general would like it . 
I wish to heaven some person in particular would buy it , and take it off my hands and out of my sight ! Roderick cried . 
What am I to do now ? he went on . 
I have n't an idea . 
I think of subjects , but they remain mere lifeless names . 
They are mere words they are not images . 
What am I to do ? Rowland was a trifle annoyed . 
Be a man , he was on the point of saying , and don't , for heaven's sake , talk in that confoundedly querulous voice . 
But before he had uttered the words , there rang through the studio a loud , peremptory ring at the outer door . 
Roderick broke into a laugh . 
Talk of the devil , he said , and you see his horns ! If that 's not a customer , it ought to be . 
The door of the studio was promptly flung open , and a lady advanced to the threshold an imposing , voluminous person , who quite filled up the doorway . 
Then he remembered that just a year before he and his companion had seen in the Ludovisi gardens a wonderfully beautiful girl , strolling in the train of this conspicuous couple . 
The elder lady offered the two young men a sufficiently gracious salute the little old gentleman bowed and smiled with extreme alertness . 
Rowland saw that , even with her eyes dropped , her beauty was still dazzling . 
I trust we are at liberty to enter , said the elder lady , with majesty . 
We were told that Mr. Hudson had no fixed day , and that we might come at any time . 
Let us not disturb you . 
He said nothing , and Rowland , looking at him , saw that he was looking amazedly at the young girl and was apparently unconscious of everything else . 
I have been in many a studio ! he said , with his finger on his nose and a strong Italian accent . 
We are going about everywhere , said his companion . 
I am passionately fond of art ! Rowland smiled sympathetically , and let them turn to Roderick's statue . 
There was nothing bold in her look it expressed a kind of languid , imperturbable indifference . 
Her beauty was extraordinary it grew and grew as the young man observed her . 
It being left to Rowland to stimulate conversation , he began by complimenting her on the beauty of her dog . 
Yes , he 's very handsome , she murmured . 
The dogs in Florence are handsomer than the people . 
And on Rowland's caressing him His name is Stenterello , she added . 
Stenterello , give your hand to the gentleman . 
This order was given in Italian . 
Say buon giorno a lei . 
Stenterello thrust out his paw and gave four short , shrill barks upon which the elder lady turned round and raised her forefinger . 
My dear , my dear , remember where you are ! Excuse my foolish child , she added , turning to Roderick with an agreeable smile . 
She can think of nothing but her poodle . 
I am teaching him to talk for me , the young girl went on , without heeding her mother to say little things in society . 
It will save me a great deal of trouble . 
He is a wonderful beast , said Rowland . 
He is not a beast , said the young girl . 
A beast is something black and dirty something you can't touch . 
He is a very valuable dog , the elder lady explained . 
He was presented to my daughter by a Florentine nobleman . 
It is not for that I care about him . 
He is better than the prince . 
Roderick had declared that they were old world people but Rowland now needed no telling to feel that he might claim the elder lady as a fellow countrywoman . 
She was a person of what is called a great deal of presence , with the faded traces , artfully revived here and there , of once brilliant beauty . 
Her daughter had come lawfully by her loveliness , but Rowland mentally made the distinction that the mother was silly and that the daughter was not . 
The mother had a very silly mouth a mouth , Rowland suspected , capable of expressing an inordinate degree of unreason . 
The young girl , in spite of her childish satisfaction in her poodle , was not a person of feeble understanding . 
Rowland received an impression that , for reasons of her own , she was playing a part . 
What was the part and what were her reasons ? She was interesting Rowland wondered what were her domestic secrets . 
She spoke with a vague foreign accent , as if she had spent her life in strange countries . 
The little Italian apparently divined Rowland's mute imaginings , for he presently stepped forward , with a bow like a master of ceremonies . 
I have not done my duty , he said , in not announcing these ladies . 
Mrs. Light , Miss Light ! Rowland was not materially the wiser for this information , but Roderick was aroused by it to the exercise of some slight hospitality . 
He altered the light , pulled forward two or three figures , and made an apology for not having more to show . 
I don't pretend to have anything of an exhibition I am only a novice . 
Indeed ? a novice ! For a novice this is very well , Mrs. Light declared . 
Cavaliere , we have seen nothing better than this . 
It is stupendous ! he murmured . 
And we have been to all the studios . 
Not to all heaven forbid ! cried Mrs. Light . 
But to a number that I have had pointed out by artistic friends . 
I delight in studios they are the temples of the beautiful here below . 
And if you are a novice , Mr. Hudson , she went on , you have already great admirers . 
Half a dozen people have told us that yours were among the things to see . 
This gracious speech went unanswered Roderick had already wandered across to the other side of the studio and was revolving about Miss Light . 
The artists are all crazy about her . 
When she goes into a studio she is fatal to the pictures . 
And when she goes into a ball room what do the other women say ? Eh , Cavaliere ? She is very beautiful , Rowland said , gravely . 
She looked at him all over apparently he had not been mentioned to her as a feature of Roderick's establishment . 
It was the gaze , Rowland felt , which the vigilant and ambitious mamma of a beautiful daughter has always at her command for well dressed young men of candid physiognomy . 
Her inspection in this case seemed satisfactory . 
Are you also an artist ? she inquired with an almost caressing inflection . 
But Rowland answered simply the formal question not the latent one . 
Dear me , no I am only a friend of Mr. Hudson . 
She bade the Cavaliere make a note of his address . 
Ah , you 're a patron of the arts , she said . 
That 's what I should like to be if I had a little money . 
I delight in beauty in every form . 
But all these people ask such monstrous prices . 
I was in a ball dress , with all my jewels , my neck and arms , and all that . 
The man got six hundred francs , and thought he was very well treated . 
Those were the days when a family could live like princes in Italy for five thousand scudi a year . 
The railroads have brought in the vulgarians . 
The Cavaliere gave a little chuckle . 
Rowland looked round , equally surprised at the promptitude of the proposal . 
Roderick stood planted before the young girl with his arms folded , looking at her as he would have done at the Medicean Venus . 
He never paid compliments , and Rowland , though he had not heard him speak , could imagine the startling distinctness with which he made his request . 
He saw me a year ago , the young girl went on , and he has been thinking of me ever since . 
Her tone , in speaking , was peculiar it had a kind of studied inexpressiveness , which was yet not the vulgar device of a drawl . 
I must make your daughter's bust that 's all , madame ! cried Roderick , with warmth . 
I had rather you made the poodle's , said the young girl . 
Is it very tiresome ? I have spent half my life sitting for my photograph , in every conceivable attitude and with every conceivable coiffure . 
I think I have posed enough . 
My dear child , said Mrs. Light , it may be one's duty to pose . 
But as to my daughter's sitting to you , sir to a young sculptor whom we don't know it is a matter that needs reflection . 
It is not a favor that 's to be had for the mere asking . 
Mamma hesitates , said Miss Light , because she does n't know whether you mean she shall pay you for the bust . 
I can assure you that she will not pay you a sou . 
My darling , you forget yourself , said Mrs. Light , with an attempt at majestic severity . 
Of course , she added , in a moment , with a change of note , the bust would be my own property . 
Of course ! cried Roderick , impatiently . 
You can always sell it , said the young girl , with the same artful artlessness . 
Mrs. Light turned to Rowland , who pitied her , flushed and irritated . 
Rowland , on the contrary , wished to avert the coming storm . 
You had better not refuse , he said to Miss Light , until you have seen Mr. Hudson's things in the marble . 
Your mother is to come and look at some that I possess . 
Thank you I have no doubt you will see us . 
I dare say Mr. Hudson is very clever but I don't care for modern sculpture . 
I can't look at it ! You shall care for my bust , I promise you ! cried Roderick , with a laugh . 
To satisfy Miss Light , said the Cavaliere , one of the old Greeks ought to come to life . 
It would be worth his while , said Roderick , paying , to Rowland's knowledge , his first compliment . 
I might sit to Phidias , if he would promise to be very amusing and make me laugh . 
What do you say , Stenterello ? would you sit to Phidias ? We must talk of this some other time , said Mrs. Light . 
We are in Rome for the winter . 
Cavaliere , call the carriage . 
Immortal powers , what a head ! cried Roderick , when they had gone . 
There 's my fortune ! She is certainly very beautiful , said Rowland . 
But I 'm sorry you have undertaken her bust . 
And why , pray ? I suspect it will bring trouble with it . 
What kind of trouble ? I hardly know . 
The mamma , I suspect , is the least bit of an adventuress . 
Heaven knows what the daughter is . 
She 's a goddess ! cried Roderick . 
She is all the more dangerous . 
Dangerous ? What will she do to me ? She does n't bite , I imagine . 
It remains to be seen . 
There are two kinds of women you ought to know it by this time the safe and the unsafe . 
Miss Light , if I am not mistaken , is one of the unsafe . 
A word to the wise ! Much obliged ! said Roderick , and he began to whistle a triumphant air , in honor , apparently , of the advent of his beautiful model . 
In calling this young lady and her mamma queer people , Rowland but roughly expressed his sentiment . 
For a week he saw the two ladies driving daily in a well appointed landau , with the Cavaliere and the poodle in the front seat . 
From Mrs. Light he received a gracious salute , tempered by her native majesty but the young girl , looking straight before her , seemed profoundly indifferent to observers . 
Her extraordinary beauty , however , had already made observers numerous and given the habitues of the Pincian plenty to talk about . 
The echoes of their commentary reached Rowland's ears but he had little taste for random gossip , and desired a distinctly veracious informant . 
He had found one in the person of Madame Grandoni , for whom Mrs. Light and her beautiful daughter were a pair of old friends . 
I have held the beautiful Christina on my knee when she was a little wizened baby with a very red face and no promise of beauty but those magnificent eyes . 
Ten years ago Mrs. Light disappeared , and has not since been seen in Rome , except for a few days last winter , when she passed through on her way to Naples . 
Then it was you met the trio in the Ludovisi gardens . 
His name was Savage it used to make every one laugh , he was such a mild , melancholy , pitiful old gentleman . 
He had married a horrible wife , an Englishwoman who had been on the stage . 
She had a good deal of showy beauty . 
She would then go forth , and , her beauty helping , she would make certain people take the pictures . 
It helped her at last to make an English lord run away with her . 
At the time I speak of she had quite disappeared . 
Mrs. Light was then a very handsome girl , though by no means so handsome as her daughter has now become . 
Mr. Light was an American consul , newly appointed at one of the Adriatic ports . 
He came up to Rome on a holiday , fell in love with Miss Savage , and married her on the spot . 
He had not been married three years when he was drowned in the Adriatic , no one ever knew how . 
The young widow came back to Rome , to her father , and here shortly afterwards , in the shadow of Saint Peter's , her little girl was born . 
It might have been supposed that Mrs. Light would marry again , and I know she had opportunities . 
She would take nothing less than a title and a fortune , and they were not forthcoming . 
She was admired and very fond of admiration very vain , very worldly , very silly . 
She remained a pretty widow , with a surprising variety of bonnets and a dozen men always in her train . 
Giacosa dates from this period . 
He calls himself a Roman , but I have an impression he came up from Ancona with her . 
He was l'ami de la maison . 
, run her errands , get her opera boxes , and fight her battles with the shopkeepers . 
For this he needed courage , for she was smothered in debt . 
She at last left Rome to escape her creditors . 
Many of them must remember her still , but she seems now to have money to satisfy them . 
She left her poor old father here alone helpless , infirm and unable to work . 
A subscription was shortly afterwards taken up among the foreigners , and he was sent back to America , where , as I afterwards heard , he died in some sort of asylum . 
From time to time , for several years , I heard vaguely of Mrs. Light as a wandering beauty at French and German watering places . 
She was a terribly scatter brained creature . 
She pretends to be a great lady , but I consider that old Filomena , my washer woman , is in essentials a greater one . 
But certainly , after all , she has been fortunate . 
She embarked at last on a lawsuit about some property , with her husband's family , and went to America to attend to it . 
She came back triumphant , with a long purse . 
She reappeared in Italy , and established herself for a while in Venice . 
Then she came to Florence , where she spent a couple of years and where I saw her . 
Last year she passed down to Naples , which I should have said was just the place for her , and this winter she has laid siege to Rome . 
She has taken a floor in the Palazzo F , she keeps her carriage , and Christina and she , between them , must have a pretty milliner's bill . 
Giacosa has turned up again , looking as if he had been kept on ice at Ancona , for her return . 
In other words , I suppose , she speaks three or four languages , and has read several hundred French novels . 
Christina , I suspect , is very clever . 
When I saw her , I was amazed at her beauty , and , certainly , if there is any truth in faces , she ought to have the soul of an angel . 
I don't judge her she 's an extraordinary young person . 
If she has not been fatally corrupted , she is a very superior girl . 
My own impression is that she is a mixture of good and bad , of ambition and indifference . 
Mrs. Light , having failed to make her own fortune in matrimony , has transferred her hopes to her daughter , and nursed them till they have become a kind of monomania . 
She has a hobby , which she rides in secret but some day she will let you see it . 
She promises her a prince a reigning prince . 
At the worst she would take a duke , an English lord , or even a young American with a proper number of millions . 
The poor woman must be rather uncomfortable . 
She is always building castles and knocking them down again always casting her nets and pulling them in . 
'Who , after all , was the Empress of the French ? Mrs. Light is forever saying . 
'And beside Christina the Empress is a dowdy ! And what does Christina say ? She makes no scruple , as you know , of saying that her mother is a fool . 
What she thinks , heaven knows . 
I suspect that , practically , she does not commit herself . 
So she remains superbly indifferent , and lets her mother take the risks . 
If the prince is secured , so much the better if he is not , she need never confess to herself that even a prince has slighted her . 
It was more comfortable to know just with whom he was dealing . 
Mrs. Light was prodigiously gracious , and showered down compliments not only on the statues , but on all his possessions . 
Upon my word , she said , you men know how to make yourselves comfortable . 
If one of us poor women had half as many easy chairs and knick knacks , we should be famously abused . 
It 's really selfish to be living all alone in such a place as this . 
Cavaliere , how should you like this suite of rooms and a fortune to fill them with pictures and statues ? Christina , love , look at that mosaic table . 
Mr. Mallet , I could almost beg it from you . 
Yes , that Eve is certainly very fine . 
We need n't be ashamed of such a great grandmother as that . 
If she was really such a beautiful woman , it accounts for the good looks of some of us . 
Rowland's sitting room was encumbered with bric a brac , and she found plenty of occupation . 
Rowland presently joined her , and pointed out some of the objects he most valued . 
It 's an odd jumble , she said frankly . 
Some things are very pretty some are very ugly . 
But I like ugly things , when they have a certain look . 
Prettiness is terribly vulgar nowadays , and it is not every one that knows just the sort of ugliness that has chic . 
But chic is getting dreadfully common too . 
There 's a hint of it even in Madame Baldi's bonnets . 
I like looking at people's things , she added in a moment , turning to Rowland and resting her eyes on him . 
It helps you to find out their characters . 
I don't think I like you . 
You make a great mistake , laughed Rowland I assure you I am very amiable . 
Yes , I am probably wrong , and if I knew you , I should find out I was wrong , and that would irritate me and make me dislike you more . 
So you see we are necessary enemies . 
No , I don't dislike you . 
Worse and worse for you certainly will not like me . 
I am fond of facing the truth , though some day you will deny that . 
Where is that queer friend of yours ? You mean Mr. Hudson . 
He is represented by these beautiful works . 
Miss Light looked for some moments at Roderick's statues . 
Yes , she said , they are not so silly as most of the things we have seen . 
They have no chic , and yet they are beautiful . 
You describe them perfectly , said Rowland . 
They are beautiful , and yet they have no chic . 
That 's it ! If he will promise to put none into my bust , I have a mind to let him make it . 
A request made in those terms deserves to be granted . 
In what terms ? Did n't you hear him ? 'Mademoiselle , you almost satisfy my conception of the beautiful . 
I must model your bust . 
That almost should be rewarded . 
He is like me he likes to face the truth . 
I think we should get on together . 
The Cavaliere approached Rowland , to express the pleasure he had derived from his beautiful collection . 
His smile was exquisitely bland , his accent appealing , caressing , insinuating . 
But he gave Rowland an odd sense of looking at a little waxen image , adjusted to perform certain gestures and emit certain sounds . 
It had once contained a soul , but the soul had leaked out . 
Nevertheless , Rowland reflected , there are more profitless things than mere sound and gesture , in a consummate Italian . 
Rowland felt sorry for him he hardly knew why . 
He assured him in a friendly fashion that he must come again that his house was always at his service . 
The Cavaliere bowed down to the ground . 
You do me too much honor , he murmured . 
If you will allow me it is not impossible ! Mrs. Light , meanwhile , had prepared to depart . 
If you are not afraid to come and see two quiet little women , we shall be most happy ! she said . 
We have no statues nor pictures we have nothing but each other . 
Eh , darling ? I beg your pardon , said Christina . 
Oh , and the Cavaliere , added her mother . 
The poodle , please ! cried the young girl . 
Rowland glanced at the Cavaliere he was smiling more blandly than ever . 
A few days later Rowland presented himself , as civility demanded , at Mrs. Light's door . 
He found her living in one of the stately houses of the Via dell' Angelo Custode , and , rather to his surprise , was told she was at home . 
He passed through half a dozen rooms and was ushered into an immense saloon , at one end of which sat the mistress of the establishment , with a piece of embroidery . 
Rowland looked interrogative whereupon she beckoned him forward and motioned him to look behind the screen . 
He obeyed , and for some moments stood gazing . 
Roderick , with his back turned , stood before an extemporized pedestal , ardently shaping a formless mass of clay . 
Before him sat Christina Light , in a white dress , with her shoulders bare , her magnificent hair twisted into a classic coil , and her head admirably poised . 
Meeting Rowland's gaze , she smiled a little , only with her deep gray eyes , without moving . 
CHAPTER V. Christina The brilliant Roman winter came round again , and Rowland enjoyed it , in a certain way , more deeply than before . 
He became passionately , unreasoningly fond of all Roman sights and sensations , and to breathe the Roman atmosphere began to seem a needful condition of being . 
He could not have defined and explained the nature of his great love , nor have made up the sum of it by the addition of his calculable pleasures . 
The tranquil profundity of his daily satisfaction seemed sometimes to turn , by a mysterious inward impulse , and face itself with questioning , admonishing , threatening eyes . 
He often felt heavy hearted he was sombre without knowing why there were no visible clouds in his heaven , but there were cloud shadows on his mood . 
Shadows projected , they often were , without his knowing it , by an undue apprehension that things after all might not go so ideally well with Roderick . 
When he understood his anxiety it vexed him , and he rebuked himself for taking things unmanfully hard . 
He had not undertaken to provide him with unflagging strength of purpose , nor to stand bondsman for unqualified success . 
If Rowland felt his roots striking and spreading in the Roman soil , Roderick also surrendered himself with renewed abandon to the local influence . 
For a man of my temperament , Rome is the only possible place , he said it 's better to recognize the fact early than late . 
So I shall never go home unless I am absolutely forced . 
What is your idea of 'force' ? asked Rowland , smiling . 
It seems to me you have an excellent reason for going home some day or other . 
Ah , you mean my engagement ? Roderick answered with unaverted eyes . 
Yes , I am distinctly engaged , in Northampton , and impatiently waited for ! And he gave a little sympathetic sigh . 
To reconcile Northampton and Rome is rather a problem . 
Mary had better come out here . 
Even at the worst I have no intention of giving up Rome within six or eight years , and an engagement of that duration would be rather absurd . 
Miss Garland could hardly leave your mother , Rowland observed . 
Oh , of course my mother should come . 
I think I will suggest it in my next letter . 
It will take her a year or two to make up her mind to it , but if she consents it will brighten her up . 
It 's too small a life , over there , even for a timid old lady . 
One is never so good , I suppose , but that one can improve a little . 
If you wish your mother and Miss Garland to come , Rowland suggested , you had better go home and bring them . 
Oh , I can't think of leaving Europe , for many a day , Roderick answered . 
At present it would quite break the charm . 
I am just beginning to profit , to get used to things and take them naturally . 
I am sure the sight of Northampton Main Street would permanently upset me . 
He had wondered over the whole matter , first and last , in a great many different ways , and looked at it in all possible lights . 
There was something terribly hard to explain in the fact of his having fallen in love with his cousin . 
There were women , he said to himself , whom it was every one's business to fall in love with a little women beautiful , brilliant , artful , easily fascinating . 
Such a one pre aueminently , was Mary Garland . 
His extraordinary success in modeling the bust of the beautiful Miss Light was pertinent evidence of this amiable quality . 
She sat to him , repeatedly , for a fortnight , and the work was rapidly finished . 
He stood beside her , directing the operation with a peremptoriness of tone which seemed to Rowland to denote a considerable advance in intimacy . 
As Rowland entered , Christina was losing patience . 
Do it yourself , then ! she cried , and with a rapid movement unloosed the great coil of her tresses and let them fall over her shoulders . 
They were magnificent , and with her perfect face dividing their rippling flow she looked like some immaculate saint of legend being led to martyrdom . 
Rowland's eyes presumably betrayed his admiration , but her own manifested no consciousness of it . 
If Christina was a coquette , as the remarkable timeliness of this incident might have suggested , she was not a superficial one . 
Hudson 's a sculptor , said Rowland , with warmth . 
But if I were only a painter ! Thank Heaven you are not ! said Christina . 
I am having quite enough of this minute inspection of my charms . 
My dear young man , hands off ! cried Mrs. Light , coming forward and seizing her daughter's hair . 
Christina , love , I am surprised . 
Is it indelicate ? Christina asked . 
I beg Mr. Mallet's pardon . 
Mrs. Light gathered up the dusky locks and let them fall through her fingers , glancing at her visitor with a significant smile . 
Mamma 's not really shocked , added Christina in a moment , as if she had guessed her mother's by play . 
She is only afraid that Mr. Hudson might have injured my hair , and that , per consequenza , I should sell for less . 
You unnatural child ! cried mamma . 
What does your mother do when she wants to do you justice ? Rowland asked , observing the admirable line of the young girl's neck . 
I do her justice when I say she says very improper things . 
What is one to do with such a thorn in the flesh ? Mrs. Light demanded . 
Think of it at your leisure , Mr. Mallet , said Christina , and when you 've discovered something , let us hear . 
I noticed it the first time I saw you . 
I think it 's because your face is so broad . 
For some reason or other , broad faces exasperate me they fill me with a kind of rabbia . 
Last summer , at Carlsbad , there was an Austrian count , with enormous estates and some great office at court . 
He was very attentive seriously so he was really very far gone . 
Cela ne tenait qu' a moi ! But I could n't he was impossible ! He must have measured , from ear to ear , at least a yard and a half . 
I am afraid that mine also , said Rowland , with a smile , seems just now to have assumed an unpardonable latitude . 
Oh , I take it you know very well that we are looking for a husband , and that none but tremendous swells need apply . 
Surely , before these gentlemen , mamma , I may speak freely they are disinterested . 
Mr. Mallet won't do , because , though he 's rich , he 's not rich enough . 
Mamma made that discovery the day after we went to see you , moved to it by the promising look of your furniture . 
I hope she was right , eh ? Unless you have millions , you know , you have no chance . 
I feel like a beggar , said Rowland . 
Oh , some better girl than I will decide some day , after mature reflection , that on the whole you have enough . 
Mr. Hudson , of course , is nowhere he has nothing but his genius and his beaux yeux . 
Roderick had stood looking at Christina intently while she delivered herself , softly and slowly , of this surprising nonsense . 
When she had finished , she turned and looked at him their eyes met , and he blushed a little . 
Let me model you , and he who can may marry you ! he said , abruptly . 
Mrs. Light , while her daughter talked , had been adding a few touches to her coiffure . 
She is not so silly as you might suppose , she said to Rowland , with dignity . 
If you will give me your arm , we will go and look at the bust . 
Does that represent a silly girl ? Christina demanded , when they stood before it . 
Rowland transferred his glance several times from the portrait to the original . 
It represents a young lady , he said , whom I should not pretend to judge off hand . 
She may be a fool , but you are not sure . 
Many thanks ! You have seen me half a dozen times . 
You are either very slow or I am very deep . 
I am certainly slow , said Rowland . 
I don't expect to make up my mind about you within six months . 
I give you six months if you will promise then a perfectly frank opinion . 
Mind , I shall not forget I shall insist upon it . 
Well , though I am slow , I am tolerably brave , said Rowland . 
Christina looked at the bust with a sigh . 
I am afraid , after all , she said , that there 's very little wisdom in it save what the artist has put there . 
Mr. Hudson looked particularly wise while he was working he scowled and growled , but he never opened his mouth . 
It is very kind of him not to have represented me gaping . 
If I had talked a lot of stuff to you , said Roderick , roundly , the thing would not have been a tenth so good . 
It was thoroughly a portrait , and not a vague fantasy executed on a graceful theme , as the busts of pretty women , in modern sculpture , are apt to be . 
The resemblance was deep and vivid there was extreme fidelity of detail and yet a noble simplicity . 
One could say of the head that , without idealization , it was a representation of ideal beauty . 
Rowland , however , as we know , was not fond of exploding into superlatives , and , after examining the piece , contented himself with suggesting two or three alterations of detail . 
Nay , how can you be so cruel ? demanded Mrs. Light , with soft reproachfulness . 
It is surely a wonderful thing ! Rowland knows it 's a wonderful thing , said Roderick , smiling . 
I can tell that by his face . 
The other day I finished something he thought bad , and he looked very differently from this . 
How did Mr. Mallet look ? asked Christina . 
My dear Rowland , said Roderick , I am speaking of my seated woman . 
You looked as if you had on a pair of tight boots . 
Ah , my child , you 'll not understand that ! cried Mrs. Light . 
You never yet had a pair that were small enough . 
It 's a pity , Mr. Hudson , said Christina , gravely , that you could not have introduced my feet into the bust . 
But we can hang a pair of slippers round the neck ! I nevertheless like your statues , Roderick , Rowland rejoined , better than your jokes . 
Miss Light , you may be proud ! Thank you , Mr. Mallet , for the permission , rejoined the young girl . 
I am dying to see it in the marble , with a red velvet screen behind it , said Mrs. Light . 
Placed there under the Sassoferrato ! Christina went on . 
It was so nominated in the bond . 
My profits are here ! and he tapped his forehead . 
It would be prettier if you said here ! And Christina touched her heart . 
My precious child , how you do run on ! murmured Mrs. Light . 
It is Mr. Mallet , the young girl answered . 
I can't talk a word of sense so long as he is in the room . 
I don't say that to make you go , she added , I say it simply to justify myself . 
Roderick declared that he must get at work and requested Christina to take her usual position , and Mrs. Light proposed to her visitor that they should adjourn to her boudoir . 
This was a small room , hardly more spacious than an alcove , opening out of the drawing room and having no other issue . 
Sleeping at his post ! said Rowland with a kindly laugh . 
That 's a punishable offense , rejoined Mrs. Light , sharply . 
Excuse me , dear lady , he said , I was overcome by the the great heat . 
Nonsense , Cavaliere ! cried the lady , you know we are perishing here with the cold ! You had better go and cool yourself in one of the other rooms . 
I obey , dear lady , said the Cavaliere and with another smile and bow to Rowland he departed , walking very discreetly on his toes . 
He was disgusted with himself for pleasing her he confounded his fatal urbanity . 
In the court yard of the palace he overtook the Cavaliere , who had stopped at the porter's lodge to say a word to his little girl . 
She was a young lady of very tender years and she wore a very dirty pinafore . 
He had taken her up in his arms and was singing an infantine rhyme to her , and she was staring at him with big , soft Roman eyes . 
On seeing Rowland he put her down with a kiss , and stepped forward with a conscious grin , an unresentful admission that he was sensitive both to chubbiness and ridicule . 
Rowland began to pity him again he had taken his dismissal from the drawing room so meekly . 
You don't keep your promise , said Rowland , to come and see me . 
I want you to tell me about Rome thirty years ago . 
Thirty years ago ? Ah , dear sir , Rome is Rome still a place where strange things happen ! But happy things too , since I have your renewed permission to call . 
You do me too much honor . 
Is it in the morning or in the evening that I should least intrude ? Take your own time , Cavaliere only come , sometime . 
I depend upon you , said Rowland . 
The Cavaliere thanked him with an humble obeisance . 
To the Cavaliere , too , he felt that he was , in Roman phrase , sympathetic , but the idea of pleasing this extremely reduced gentleman was not disagreeable to him . 
Miss Light's bust stood for a while on exhibition in Roderick's studio , and half the foreign colony came to see it . 
With the completion of his work , however , Roderick's visits at the Palazzo F by no means came to an end . 
He spent half his time in Mrs. Light's drawing room , and began to be talked about as attentive to Christina . 
The success of the bust restored his equanimity , and in the garrulity of his good humor he suffered Rowland to see that she was just now the object uppermost in his thoughts . 
The impression remained that she was unsafe that she was a complex , willful , passionate creature , who might easily engulf a too confiding spirit in the eddies of her capricious temper . 
I had no idea of it , he said , till I began to look at her with an eye to reproducing line for line and curve for curve . 
Her face is the most exquisite piece of modeling that ever came from creative hands . 
Not a line without meaning , not a hair's breadth that is not admirably finished . 
I 've quite forgotten her beauty , he said , or rather I have ceased to perceive it as something distinct and defined , something independent of the rest of her . 
She is all one , and all consummately interesting ! What does she do what does she say , that is so remarkable ? Rowland had asked . 
Say ? Sometimes nothing sometimes everything . 
She is never the same . 
Sometimes she walks in and takes her place without a word , without a smile , gravely , stiffly , as if it were an awful bore . 
She hardly looks at me , and she walks away without even glancing at my work . 
On other days she laughs and chatters and asks endless questions , and pours out the most irresistible nonsense . 
She is a creature of moods you can't count upon her she keeps observation on the stretch . 
It may be a charm , but it is certainly not the orthodox charm of marriageable maidenhood , the charm of shrinking innocence and soft docility . 
Our American girls are accused of being more knowing than any others , and Miss Light is nominally an American . 
But it has taken twenty years of Europe to make her what she is . 
The first time we saw her , I remember you called her a product of the old world , and certainly you were not far wrong . 
Ah , she has an atmosphere , said Roderick , in the tone of high appreciation . 
A man is never flattered at a woman's not liking him . 
Are you sure she does n't like you ? That 's to the credit of your humility . 
A fellow of more vanity might , on the evidence , persuade himself that he was in favor . 
But it amounted almost to arrogance , you may say , in poor Rowland to pretend to know how often Roderick thought of Miss Garland . 
, had no reason to expect from her this affectionate laxity as to their accounts . 
Devilish pretty , through and through ! he said as he looked at the bust . 
Capital handling of the neck and throat lovely work on the nose . 
You 're a detestably lucky fellow , my boy ! But you ought not to have squandered such material on a simple bust you should have made a great imaginative figure . 
If I could only have got hold of her , I would have put her into a statue in spite of herself . 
I have seen intimations of the type , but Miss Light is the perfection of it . 
As soon as I saw her I said to myself , 'By Jove , there 's my statue in the flesh ! What is your subject ? asked Roderick . 
Don't take it ill , said Gloriani . 
You know I 'm the very deuce for observation . 
, he might have been soothed by the candid incense of Sam Singleton , who came and sat for an hour in a sort of mental prostration before both bust and artist . 
You sail nearer the shore , but you sail in smoother waters . 
Be contented with what you are and paint me another picture . 
Oh , I don't envy Hudson anything he possesses , Singleton said , because to take anything away would spoil his beautiful completeness . 
'Complete , that 's what he is while we little clevernesses are like half ripened plums , only good eating on the side that has had a glimpse of the sun . 
He had never liked her and never climbed into her sky studio to observe her wonderful manipulation of petals . 
You can see it sticking out its head , and , if you go to smell the flower , it scratches your nose . 
But on this occasion she had come with a propitiatory gift introducing her friend Mr. Leavenworth . 
it bore a certain resemblance to a large parlor with a very florid carpet , but no pictures on the walls . 
But Mr. Leavenworth was disposed to order something . 
You will find me eager to patronize our indigenous talent , he said . 
I am putting up a little shanty in my native town , and I propose to make a rather nice thing of it . 
I ordered in Paris the complete appurtenances of a dining room . 
The subject I have already fixed upon . 
I desire an allegorical representation of Culture . 
Do you think , now , asked Mr. Leavenworth , encouragingly , you could rise to the conception ? A most interesting subject for a truly serious mind , remarked Miss Blanchard . 
Roderick looked at her a moment , and then The simplest thing I could do , he said , would be to make a full length portrait of Miss Blanchard . 
I could give her a scroll in her hand , and that would do for the allegory . 
Miss Blanchard colored the compliment might be ironical and there was ever afterwards a reflection of her uncertainty in her opinion of Roderick's genius . 
Mr. Leavenworth responded that with all deference to Miss Blanchard's beauty , he desired something colder , more monumental , more impersonal . 
Who is your friend ? he asked . 
The architect of his own fortune which is magnificent . 
One of nature's gentlemen ! This was a trifle sententious , and Rowland turned to the bust of Miss Light . 
Like every one else in Rome , by this time , Miss Blanchard had an opinion on the young girl's beauty , and , in her own fashion , she expressed it epigrammatically . 
She looks half like a Madonna and half like a ballerina , she said . 
Mr. Leavenworth and Roderick came to an understanding , and the young sculptor good naturedly promised to do his best to rise to his patron's conception . 
His conception be hanged ! Roderick exclaimed , after he had departed . 
His conception is sitting on a globe with a pen in her ear and a photographic album in her hand . 
I shall have to conceive , myself . 
For the money , I ought to be able to ! Mrs. Light , meanwhile , had fairly established herself in Roman society . 
Heaven knows how ! Madame Grandoni said to Rowland , who had mentioned to her several evidences of the lady's prosperity . 
In such a case there is nothing like audacity . 
A month ago she knew no one but her washerwoman , and now I am told that the cards of Roman princesses are to be seen on her table . 
She is evidently determined to play a great part , and she has the wit to perceive that , to make remunerative acquaintances , you must seem yourself to be worth knowing . 
You must have striking rooms and a confusing variety of dresses , and give good dinners , and so forth . 
She is spending a lot of money , and you 'll see that in two or three weeks she will take upon herself to open the season by giving a magnificent ball . 
Of course it is Christina's beauty that floats her . 
People go to see her because they are curious . 
And they go again because they are charmed , said Rowland . 
Miss Christina is a very remarkable young lady . 
Oh , I know it well I had occasion to say so to myself the other day . 
She came to see me , of her own free will , and for an hour she was deeply interesting . 
I think she 's an actress , but she believes in her part while she is playing it . 
She cried , herself , profusely , and as naturally as possible . 
She said she was weary of life and that she knew no one but me she could speak frankly to . 
She must speak , or she would go mad . 
She sobbed as if her heart would break . 
I assure you it 's well for you susceptible young men that you don't see her when she sobs . 
She said , in so many words , that her mother was an immoral woman . 
Heaven knows what she meant . 
She meant , I suppose , that she makes debts that she knows she can't pay . 
She said the life they led was horrible that it was monstrous a poor girl should be dragged about the world to be sold to the highest bidder . 
She was meant for better things she could be perfectly happy in poverty . 
It was not money she wanted . 
I might not believe her , but she really cared for serious things . 
Sometimes she thought of taking poison ! What did you say to that ? I recommended her , said Madame Grandoni , to come and see me instead . 
I would help her about as much , and I was , on the whole , less unpleasant . 
Of course I could help her only by letting her talk herself out and kissing her and patting her beautiful hands and telling her to be patient and she would be happy yet . 
About once in two months I expect her to reappear , on the same errand , and meanwhile to quite forget my existence . 
I feel very sorry for her . 
Rowland met the two ladies , about this time , at several entertainments , and looked at Christina with a kind of distant attendrissement . 
He imagined more than once that there had been a passionate scene between them about coming out , and wondered what arguments Mrs. Light had found effective . 
Young ladies to whom the former distinction was not conceded were free to reflect that she was not at all liked . 
All Rome might behold that he , at least , liked Christina Light . 
Wherever she appeared he was either awaiting her or immediately followed her . 
Roderick , as usual , was in the field , and , on the ladies taking the chairs which had been arranged for them , he immediately placed himself beside Christina . 
As most of the gentlemen were standing , his position made him as conspicuous as Hamlet at Ophelia's feet , at the play . 
Rowland was leaning , somewhat apart , against the chimney piece . 
She was neither pale nor flushed she had a soft smile . 
Will you do me a favor ? she asked . 
A thousand ! Not now , but at your earliest convenience . 
The music broke out with a great blare and covered her voice . 
She made a gesture of impatience , and Rowland offered her his arm and led her back to her seat . 
The next day he repeated her words to Roderick , who burst into joyous laughter . 
She 's a delightfully strange girl ! he cried . 
Here comes that tiresome So and so . 
She cares as little about the custom as I do . 
That 's reason enough for her . 
Rowland went late , and found the staircase so encumbered with flower pots and servants that he was a long time making his way into the presence of the hostess . 
At last he approached her , as she stood making courtesies at the door , with her daughter by her side . 
Some of Mrs. Light's courtesies were very low , for she had the happiness of receiving a number of the social potentates of the Roman world . 
Her daughter was less overtly jubilant , and distributed her greetings with impartial frigidity . 
She had never been so beautiful . 
She recognized no one individually , and made her courtesy slowly , gravely , with her eyes on the ground . 
The little gentleman's coat lappet was decorated with an enormous bouquet and his neck encased in a voluminous white handkerchief of the fashion of thirty years ago . 
His arms were folded , and he was surveying the scene with contracted eyelids , through which you saw the glitter of his intensely dark , vivacious pupil . 
He immediately embarked on an elaborate apology for not having yet manifested , as he felt it , his sense of the honor Rowland had done him . 
I am always on service with these ladies , you see , he explained , and that is a duty to which one would not willingly be faithless for an instant . 
Evidently , said Rowland , you are a very devoted friend . 
Mrs. Light , in her situation , is very happy in having you . 
We are old friends , said the Cavaliere , gravely . 
I knew the signora many years ago , when she was the prettiest woman in Rome or rather in Ancona , which is even better . 
The beautiful Christina , now , is perhaps the most beautiful young girl in Europe ! Very likely , said Rowland . 
Very well , sir , I taught her to read I guided her little hands to touch the piano keys . 
And at these faded memories , the Cavaliere's eyes glittered more brightly . 
I am not so shallow as to complain ! Evidently the Cavaliere was not shallow , and Rowland repeated respectfully , You are a devoted friend . 
I am a devoted friend . 
A man may do himself justice , after twenty years ! Rowland , after a pause , made some remark about the beauty of the ball . 
Stupendous ! said the Cavaliere , solemnly . 
It is a great day . 
We have four Roman princes , to say nothing of others . 
And he counted them over on his fingers and held up his hand triumphantly . 
Here , in his corner , her old master permits himself to be proud . 
It is very friendly of him , said Rowland , smiling . 
The Cavaliere contracted his lids a little more and gave another keen glance . 
It is very natural , signore . 
The Christina is a good girl she remembers my little services . 
But here comes , he added in a moment , the young Prince of the Fine Arts . 
I am sure he has bowed lowest of all . 
Rowland looked round and saw Roderick moving slowly across the room and casting about him his usual luminous , unshrinking looks . 
He presently joined them , nodded familiarly to the Cavaliere , and immediately demanded of Rowland , Have you seen her ? I have seen Miss Light , said Rowland . 
I 'm half crazy ! cried Roderick so loud that several persons turned round . 
Rowland saw that he was flushed , and laid his hand on his arm . 
If you will go away , Rowland said instantly , I will go with you . 
Go away ? cried Roderick , almost angrily . 
I intend to dance with her ! The Cavaliere had been watching him attentively he gently laid his hand on his other arm . 
Softly , softly , dear young man , he said . 
Let me speak to you as a friend . 
Oh , speak even as an enemy and I shall not mind it , Roderick answered , frowning . 
Be very reasonable , then , and go away . 
Why the deuce should I go away ? Because you are in love , said the Cavaliere . 
I might as well be in love here as in the streets . 
Carry your love as far as possible from Christina . 
She will not listen to you she can't . 
She 'can't' ? demanded Roderick . 
She is not a person of whom you may say that . 
She can if she will she does as she chooses . 
Up to a certain point . 
It would take too long to explain I only beg you to believe that if you continue to love Miss Light you will be very unhappy . 
Have you a princely title ? have you a princely fortune ? Otherwise you can never have her . 
And the Cavaliere folded his arms again , like a man who has done his duty . 
Roderick wiped his forehead and looked askance at Rowland he seemed to be guessing his thoughts and they made him blush a little . 
But he smiled blandly , and addressing the Cavaliere , I 'm much obliged to you for the information , he said . 
Now that I have obtained it , let me tell you that I am no more in love with Miss Light than you are . 
I admire her yes , profoundly . 
If you are not in love , my dear young man , said the Cavaliere , with his hand on his heart and an apologetic smile , so much the better . 
But let me entreat you , as an affectionate friend , to keep a watch on your emotions . 
You speak as if she had made her choice ! he cried . 
Without pretending to confidential information on the subject , I am sure she has not . 
No , but she must make it soon , said the Cavaliere . 
And raising his forefinger , he laid it against his under lip . 
The Cavaliere turned a little paler than usual , and smiled more urbanely . 
No , no , my dear young man , you do not know her better than I. You have not watched her , day by day , for twenty years . 
I too have admired her . 
You had better believe me it may save you much suffering . 
We shall see ! said Roderick , with an excited laugh . 
But I retire from the discussion , the Cavaliere added . 
I have no wish to provoke you to attempt to prove to me that I am wrong . 
No more than is natural to a man who in an hour or so is to dance the cotillon with Miss Light . 
The cotillon ? has she promised ? Roderick patted the air with a grand confidence . 
You 'll see ! His gesture might almost have been taken to mean that the state of his relations with Miss Light was such that they quite dispensed with vain formalities . 
The Cavaliere gave an exaggerated shrug . 
You make a great many mourners ! He has made one already ! Rowland murmured to himself . 
Rowland hoped , silently , with some dryness , that his motives were of a finer kind than they seemed to be . 
He turned away it was irritating to look at Roderick's radiant , unscrupulous eagerness . 
The tide was setting toward the supper room and he drifted with it to the door . 
The crowd at this point was dense , and he was obliged to wait for some minutes before he could advance . 
At last he felt his neighbors dividing behind him , and turning he saw Christina pressing her way forward alone . 
She was looking at no one , and , save for the fact of her being alone , you would not have supposed she was in her mother's house . 
As she recognized Rowland she beckoned to him , took his arm , and motioned him to lead her into the supper room . 
She said nothing until he had forced a passage and they stood somewhat isolated . 
Take me into the most out of the way corner you can find , she then said , and then go and get me a piece of bread . 
Nothing more ? There seems to be everything conceivable . 
Nothing more , on your peril . 
Only bring something for yourself . 
was a retreat sufficiently obscure for Miss Light to execute whatever design she might have contrived against his equanimity . 
A roll , after he had found her a seat , was easily procured . 
Ah yes , I dislike you , said Christina . 
To tell the truth , I had forgotten it . 
There are so many people here whom I dislike more , that when I espied you just now , you seemed like an intimate friend . 
But I have not come into this corner to talk nonsense , she went on . 
You must not think I always do , eh ? I have never heard you do anything else , said Rowland , deliberately , having decided that he owed her no compliments . 
You see , I am a strange girl . 
To begin with , I am frightfully egotistical . 
Don't flatter yourself you have said anything very clever if you ever take it into your head to tell me so . 
I know it much better than you . 
So it is , I can't help it . 
If a person wished to do me a favor I would say to him , 'I beg you , with tears in my eyes , to interest me . 
If it is , I can't help it . 
I am afraid I should never understand , said Rowland , why a person should willingly talk nonsense . 
That proves how little you know about women . 
But I like your frankness . 
When I told you the other day that you displeased me , I had an idea you were more formal , how do you say it ? more guinde . 
To night I like you better . 
Oh , I am not guinde , said Rowland , gravely . 
I beg your pardon , then , for thinking so . 
Now I have an idea that you would make a useful friend an intimate friend a friend to whom one could tell everything . 
For such a friend , what would n't I give ! Rowland looked at her in some perplexity . 
Was this touching sincerity , or unfathomable coquetry ? Her beautiful eyes looked divinely candid but then , if candor was beautiful , beauty was apt to be subtle . 
One of the first things one asks of a friend is to judge one not by isolated acts , but by one's whole conduct . 
I care for your opinion I don't know why . 
Nor do I , I confess , said Rowland with a laugh . 
What do you think of this affair ? she continued , without heeding his laugh . 
Of your ball ? Why , it 's a very grand affair . 
It 's horrible that 's what it is ! It 's a mere rabble ! There are people here whom I never saw before , people who were never asked . 
Mamma went about inviting every one , asking other people to invite any one they knew , doing anything to have a crowd . 
I hope she is satisfied ! It is not my doing . 
I feel weary , I feel angry , I feel like crying . 
I have twenty minds to escape into my room and lock the door and let mamma go through with it as she can . 
Can you recommend me some books ? she repeated . 
I know you are a great reader . 
I have no one else to ask . 
We can buy no books . 
We can make debts for jewelry and bonnets and five button gloves , but we can't spend a sou for ideas . 
And yet , though you may not believe it , I like ideas quite as well . 
I shall be most happy to lend you some books , Rowland said . 
I will pick some out to morrow and send them to you . 
No novels , please ! I am tired of novels . 
I can imagine better stories for myself than any I read . 
Some good poetry , if there is such a thing nowadays , and some memoirs and histories and books of facts . 
Your taste agrees with my own . 
She was silent a moment , looking at him . 
Then suddenly Tell me something about Mr. Hudson , she demanded . 
You are great friends ! Oh yes , said Rowland we are great friends . 
Come , begin ! Where shall I begin ? You know him for yourself . 
No , I don't know him I don't find him so easy to know . 
Since he has finished my bust and begun to come here disinterestedly , he has become a great talker . 
He says very fine things but does he mean all he says ? Few of us do that . 
You do , I imagine . 
You ought to know , for he tells me you discovered him . 
Rowland was silent , and Christina continued , Do you consider him very clever ? Unquestionably . 
His talent is really something out of the common way ? So it seems to me . 
In short , he 's a man of genius ? Yes , call it genius . 
And you found him vegetating in a little village and took him by the hand and set him on his feet in Rome ? Is that the popular legend ? asked Rowland . 
Oh , you need n't be modest . 
There was no great merit in it there would have been none at least on my part in the same circumstances . 
Real geniuses are not so common , and if I had discovered one in the wilderness , I would have brought him out into the market place to see how he would behave . 
It would be excessively amusing . 
She stretched out her bare arm and looked at it a moment absently , turning it so as to see or almost to see the dimple in her elbow . 
This was apparently a frequent gesture with her Rowland had already observed it . 
It was as coolly and naturally done as if she had been in her room alone . 
So he 's a man of genius , she suddenly resumed . 
There is something strange about him . 
To begin with , he has no manners . 
You may say that it 's not for me to blame him , for I have none myself . 
whereas Mr. Hudson will never have them . 
And yet , somehow , one sees he 's a gentleman . 
He seems to have something urging , driving , pushing him , making him restless and defiant . 
You see it in his eyes . 
They are the finest , by the way , I ever saw . 
When a person has such eyes as that you can forgive him his bad manners . 
I suppose that is what they call the sacred fire . 
Rowland made no answer except to ask her in a moment if she would have another roll . 
She merely shook her head and went on Tell me how you found him . 
Where was he how was he ? He was in a place called Northampton . 
Did you ever hear of it ? He was studying law but not learning it . 
It appears it was something horrible , eh ? Something horrible ? This little village . 
No society , no pleasures , no beauty , no life . 
You have received a false impression . 
Northampton is not as gay as Rome , but Roderick had some charming friends . 
Who were they ? Well , there was my cousin , through whom I made his acquaintance a delightful woman . 
Young pretty ? Yes , a good deal of both . 
Did he make love to her ? Not in the least . 
Well , who else ? He lived with his mother . 
She is the best of women . 
Ah yes , I know all that one's mother is . 
But she does not count as society . 
And who else ? Rowland hesitated . 
He wondered whether Christina's insistance was the result of a general interest in Roderick's antecedents or of a particular suspicion . 
He looked at her she was looking at him a little askance , waiting for his answer . 
As Roderick had said nothing about his engagement to the Cavaliere , it was probable that with this beautiful girl he had not been more explicit . 
And yet the thing was announced , it was public that other girl was happy in it , proud of it . 
Rowland felt a kind of dumb anger rising in his heart . 
He deliberated a moment intently . 
What are you frowning at ? Christina asked . 
There was another person , he answered , the most important of all the young girl to whom he is engaged . 
Christina stared a moment , raising her eyebrows . 
Ah , Mr. Hudson is engaged ? she said , very simply . 
Is she pretty ? She is not called a beauty , said Rowland . 
He meant to practice great brevity , but in a moment he added , I have seen beauties , however , who pleased me less . 
Ah , she pleases you , too ? Why don't they marry ? Roderick is waiting till he can afford to marry . 
Christina slowly put out her arm again and looked at the dimple in her elbow . 
Ah , he 's engaged ? she repeated in the same tone . 
Rowland perceived at this moment that the people about them were beginning to return to the dancing room , and immediately afterwards he saw Roderick making his way toward themselves . 
Roderick presented himself before Miss Light . 
I don't claim that you have promised me the cotillon , he said , but I consider that you have given me hopes which warrant the confidence that you will dance with me . 
Christina looked at him a moment . 
Certainly I have made no promises , she said . 
It seemed to me that , as the daughter of the house , I should keep myself free and let it depend on circumstances . 
I beseech you to dance with me ! said Roderick , with vehemence . 
Christina rose and began to laugh . 
You say that very well , but the Italians do it better . 
This assertion seemed likely to be put to the proof . 
Mrs. Light hastily approached , leading , rather than led by , a tall , slim young man , of an unmistakably Southern physiognomy . 
The honor is for us . 
Christina hesitated but for a moment , then swept the young man a courtesy as profound as his own bow . 
You are very kind , but you are too late . 
I have just accepted ! Ah , my own darling ! murmured almost moaned Mrs. Light . 
Christina and Roderick exchanged a single glance a glance brilliant on both sides . 
She passed her hand into his arm he tossed his clustering locks and led her away . 
A short time afterwards Rowland saw the young man whom she had rejected leaning against a doorway . 
He was ugly , but what is called distinguished looking . 
He had a heavy black eye , a sallow complexion , a long , thin neck his hair was cropped en brosse . 
He looked very young , yet extremely bored . 
He was staring at the ceiling and stroking an imperceptible moustache . 
Rowland espied the Cavaliere Giacosa hard by , and , having joined him , asked him the young man's name . 
Oh , said the Cavaliere , he 's a pezzo grosso ! A Neapolitan . 
, Rowland found a letter on the table addressed to himself . 
It was from Roderick , and consisted of but three lines I am gone to Frascati for meditation . 
If I am not at home on Friday , you had better join me . 
On Friday he was still absent , and Rowland went out to Frascati . 
Here he found his friend living at the inn and spending his days , according to his own account , lying under the trees of the Villa Mondragone , reading Ariosto . 
He was in a sombre mood meditation seemed not to have been fruitful . 
Nothing especially pertinent to our narrative had passed between the two young men since Mrs. Light's ball , save a few words bearing on an incident of that entertainment . 
Rowland informed Roderick , the next day , that he had told Miss Light of his engagement . 
I don't know whether you 'll thank me , he had said , but it 's my duty to let you know it . 
Miss Light perhaps has already done so . 
Roderick looked at him a moment , intently , with his color slowly rising . 
Why should n't I thank you ? he asked . 
I am not ashamed of my engagement . 
As you had not spoken of it yourself , I thought you might have a reason for not having it known . 
A man does n't gossip about such a matter with strangers , Roderick rejoined , with the ring of irritation in his voice . 
With strangers no ! said Rowland , smiling . 
I weighed the matter before I spoke , and promised myself to let you know immediately afterwards . 
It seemed to me that Miss Light had better know that your affections are pledged . 
The Cavaliere has put it into your head , then , that I am making love to her ? No in that case I would not have spoken to her first . 
Do you mean , then , that she is making love to me ? This is what I mean , said Rowland , after a pause . 
That girl finds you interesting , and is pleased , even though she may play indifference , at your finding her so . 
I said to myself that it might save her some sentimental disappointment to know without delay that you are not at liberty to become indefinitely interested in other women . 
You seem to have taken the measure of my liberty with extraordinary minuteness ! cried Roderick . 
You must do me justice . 
I am the cause of your separation from Miss Garland , the cause of your being exposed to temptations which she hardly even suspects . 
You are too zealous I take it she did n't charge you to look after her interests . 
If anything happens to you , I am accountable . 
That 's a view of the situation I can't accept in your own interest , no less than in mine . 
It can only make us both very uncomfortable . 
When I do well , the merit 's mine if I do ill , the fault 's mine ! The idea that I make you nervous is detestable . 
Dedicate your nerves to some better cause , and believe that if Miss Garland and I have a quarrel , we shall settle it between ourselves . 
Rowland had found himself wondering , shortly before , whether possibly his brilliant young friend was without a conscience now it dimly occurred to him that he was without a heart . 
Rowland , as we have already intimated , was a man with a moral passion , and no small part of it had gone forth into his relations with Roderick . 
Rowland , indeed , had taken an exquisite satisfaction in his companion's deep , inexpressive assent to his interest in him . 
He listened to Roderick's last words , and then he smiled as he rarely smiled with bitterness . 
I don't at all like your telling me I am too zealous , he said . 
If I had not been zealous , I should never have cared a fig for you . 
Roderick flushed deeply , and thrust his modeling tool up to the handle into the clay . 
Say it outright ! You have been a great fool to believe in me . 
I desire to say nothing of the kind , and you don't honestly believe I do ! said Rowland . 
It seems to me I am really very good natured even to reply to such nonsense . 
Roderick sat down , crossed his arms , and fixed his eyes on the floor . 
It was not the first time he had had a sense of Roderick's standing helpless in the grasp of his temperament . 
It had shaken him , as yet , but with a half good humored wantonness but , henceforth , possibly , it meant to handle him more roughly . 
These were not times , therefore , for a friend to have a short patience . 
When you err , you say , the fault 's your own , he said at last . 
It is because your faults are your own that I care about them . 
Rowland's voice , when he spoke with feeling , had an extraordinary amenity . 
Roderick sat staring a moment longer at the floor , then he sprang up and laid his hand affectionately on his friend's shoulder . 
You are the best man in the world , he said , and I am a vile brute . 
that it was the fault of one's own grossness if one failed to read to the bottom of that beautiful soul . 
What is it now ? Explain . 
Oh , I can't explain ! cried Roderick impatiently , returning to his work . 
I have only one way of expressing my deepest feelings it 's this ! And he swung his tool . 
He stood looking at the half wrought clay for a moment , and then flung the instrument down . 
And even this half the time plays me false ! Rowland felt that his irritation had not subsided , and he himself had no taste for saying disagreeable things . 
Nevertheless he saw no sufficient reason to forbear uttering the words he had had on his conscience from the beginning . 
We must do what we can and be thankful , he said . 
And let me assure you of this that it won't help you to become entangled with Miss Light . 
Roderick pressed his hand to his forehead with vehemence and then shook it in the air , despairingly a gesture that had become frequent with him since he had been in Italy . 
No , no , it 's no use you don't understand me ! But I don't blame you . 
You can't ! You think it will help you , then ? said Rowland , wondering . 
You demand of us to be imaginative , and you deny us that which feeds the imagination . 
In labor we must be as passionate as the inspired sibyl in life we must be mere machines . 
When you have got an artist to deal with , you must take him as he is , good and bad together . 
I don't say they are pleasant fellows to know or easy fellows to live with I don't say they satisfy themselves any better than other people . 
I only say that if you want them to produce , you must let them conceive . 
If you want a bird to sing , you must not cover up its cage . 
I have no wish whatever either to shoot you or to drown you ! he said . 
I am young and ardent and inquisitive , and I admire Miss Light . 
I shall go as far as admiration leads me . 
Sometimes I half suspect it . 
But he saw it was vain to combat longer , for inclination was powerfully on Roderick's side . 
He laid his hand on Roderick's shoulder , looked at him a moment with troubled eyes , then shook his head mournfully and turned away . 
I can't work any more , said Roderick . 
You have upset me ! I 'll go and stroll on the Pincian . 
And he tossed aside his working jacket and prepared himself for the street . 
As he was arranging his cravat before the glass , something occurred to him which made him thoughtful . 
He stopped a few moments afterward , as they were going out , with his hand on the door knob . 
You did , from your own point of view , an indiscreet thing , he said , to tell Miss Light of my engagement . 
Rowland looked at him with a glance which was partly an interrogation , but partly , also , an admission . 
If she 's the coquette you say , Roderick added , you have given her a reason the more . 
And that 's the girl you propose to devote yourself to ? cried Rowland . 
Rowland thought him generous , and he had at any rate a liberal faculty of forgetting that he had given you any reason to be displeased with him . 
It was equally characteristic of Rowland that he complied with his friend's summons without a moment's hesitation . 
His cousin Cecilia had once told him that he was the dupe of his intense benevolence . 
She put the case with too little favor , or too much , as the reader chooses it is certain , at least , that he had a constitutional tendency towards magnanimous interpretations . 
The villas at Frascati are delicious places , and replete with romantic suggestiveness . 
Rowland was half a dozen times on the point of asking him what was the matter with him he was afraid he was going to be ill . 
He carried his volume of Ariosto in his pocket , and took it out every now and then and spouted half a dozen stanzas to his companion . 
He had picked up Italian without study , and had a wonderfully sympathetic accent , though in reading aloud he ruined the sense of half the lines he rolled off so sonorously . 
Rowland , who pronounced badly but understood everything , once said to him that Ariosto was not the poet for a man of his craft a sculptor should make a companion of Dante . 
So he lent him the Inferno , which he had brought with him , and advised him to look into it . 
Roderick took it with some eagerness perhaps it would brighten his wits . 
He returned it the next day with disgust he had found it intolerably depressing . 
A sculptor should model as Dante writes you 're right there , he said . 
But when his genius is in eclipse , Dante is a dreadfully smoky lamp . 
Best of all would be to be Ariosto himself , or one of his brotherhood . 
Then everything in nature would give you a hint , and every form of beauty be part of your stock . 
Say that a dozen times in his life a man has a complete sculpturesque vision a vision in which the imagination recognizes a subject and the subject kindles the imagination . 
The whole matter of genius is a mystery . 
It bloweth where it listeth and we know nothing of its mechanism . 
If it gets out of order we can't mend it if it breaks down altogether we can't set it going again . 
We must let it choose its own pace , and hold our breath lest it should lose its balance . 
Those of some men last for life those of others for a couple of years . 
Nay , what are you smiling at so damnably ? he went on . 
You can number them by the thousand the people of two or three successes the poor fellows whose candle burnt out in a night . 
Some of them groped their way along without it , some of them gave themselves up for blind and sat down by the wayside to beg . 
I 'm prepared for failure . 
It won't be a disappointment , simply because I shan't survive it . 
The end of my work shall be the end of my life . 
When I have played my last card , I shall cease to care for the game . 
I 'm not making vulgar threats of suicide for destiny , I trust , won't add insult to injury by putting me to that abominable trouble . 
He may bespatter you with ink , he may hit you in the eye , but he writes a magnificent hand . 
He sighed to himself , and wished that his companion had a trifle more of little Sam Singleton's evenness of impulse . 
Don't heed your mood , he said , and don't believe there is any calm so dead that your own lungs can't ruffle it with a breeze . 
If you have work to do , don't wait to feel like it set to work and you will feel like it . 
Set to work and produce abortions ! cried Roderick with ire . 
Production with me must be either pleasure or nothing . 
As I said just now , I must either stay in the saddle or not go at all . 
I won't do second rate work I can't if I would . 
I have no cleverness , apart from inspiration . 
I am not a Gloriani ! You are right , he added after a while this is unprofitable talk , and it makes my head ache . 
I shall take a nap and see if I can dream of a bright idea or two . 
He turned his face upward to the parasol of the great pine , closed his eyes , and in a short time forgot his sombre fancies . 
January though it was , the mild stillness seemed to vibrate with faint midsummer sounds . 
Rowland sat listening to them and wishing that , for the sake of his own felicity , Roderick's temper were graced with a certain absent ductility . 
He was brilliant , but was he , like many brilliant things , brittle ? Suddenly , to his musing sense , the soft atmospheric hum was overscored with distincter sounds . 
He heard voices beyond a mass of shrubbery , at the turn of a neighboring path . 
In a moment one of them began to seem familiar , and an instant later a large white poodle emerged into view . 
He was slowly followed by his mistress . 
Miss Light paused a moment on seeing Rowland and his companion but , though the former perceived that he was recognized , she made no bow . 
Presently she walked directly toward him . 
He rose and was on the point of waking Roderick , but she laid her finger on her lips and motioned him to forbear . 
She stood a moment looking at Roderick's handsome slumber . 
What delicious oblivion ! she said . 
Happy man ! Stenterello and she pointed to his face wake him up ! The poodle extended a long pink tongue and began to lick Roderick's cheek . 
Why , asked Rowland , if he is happy ? Oh , I want companions in misery ! Besides , I want to show off my dog . 
Roderick roused himself , sat up , and stared . 
By this time Mrs. Light had approached , walking with a gentleman on each side of her . 
One of these was the Cavaliere Giacosa the other was Prince Casamassima . 
I should have liked to lie down on the grass and go to sleep , Christina added . 
But it would have been unheard of . 
Oh , not quite , said the Prince , in English , with a tone of great precision . 
There was already a Sleeping Beauty in the Wood ! Charming ! cried Mrs. Light . 
Do you hear that , my dear ? When the prince says a brilliant thing , it would be a pity to lose it , said the young girl . 
Your servant , sir ! And she smiled at him with a grace that might have reassured him , if he had thought her compliment ambiguous . 
And who would ever have thought of finding Mr. Mallet and Mr. Hudson sleeping under a tree ! Oh , I beg your pardon I was not sleeping , said Rowland . 
Don't you know that Mr. Mallet is Mr. Hudson's sheep dog ? asked Christina . 
He was mounting guard to keep away the wolves . 
To indifferent purpose , madame ! said Rowland , indicating the young girl . 
Is that the way you spend your time ? Christina demanded of Roderick . 
I never yet happened to learn what men were doing when they supposed women were not watching them but it was something vastly below their reputation . 
When , pray , said Roderick , smoothing his ruffled locks , are women not watching them ? We shall give you something better to do , at any rate . 
How long have you been here ? It 's an age since I have seen you . 
We consider you domiciled here , and expect you to play host and entertain us . 
Roderick said that he could offer them nothing but to show them the great terrace , with its view and ten minutes later the group was assembled there . 
Mrs. Light was extravagant in her satisfaction Christina looked away at the Sabine mountains , in silence . 
The prince stood by , frowning at the rapture of the elder lady . 
This is nothing , he said at last . 
Have you seen the terrace at San Gaetano ? Ah , that terrace , murmured Mrs. Light , amorously . 
I suppose it is magnificent ! It is four hundred feet long , and paved with marble . 
And the view is a thousand times more beautiful than this . 
To go from one end to the other , the prince must have out his golden carriage . 
This was apparently an allusion to one of the other items of the young man's grandeur . 
You always laugh at me , said the prince . 
I know no more what to say ! She looked at him with a sad smile and shook her head . 
No , no , dear prince , I don't laugh at you . 
Heaven forbid ! You are much too serious an affair . 
I assure you I feel your importance . 
It does n't matter , Christina went on . 
But the prince looked heavy eyed toward Rowland and Roderick , to whom the young girl was turning , as if he had much rather his lot were cast with theirs . 
Is the villa inhabited ? Christina asked , pointing to the vast melancholy structure which rises above the terrace . 
Not privately , said Roderick . 
It is occupied by a Jesuits' college , for little boys . 
Can women go in ? I am afraid not . 
And Roderick began to laugh . 
But if I can't have that amusement I must have some other . 
We must not stand planted on this enchanting terrace as if we were stakes driven into the earth . 
We must dance , we must feast , we must do something picturesque . 
Mamma has arranged , I believe , that we are to go back to Frascati to lunch at the inn . 
I decree that we lunch here and send the Cavaliere to the inn to get the provisions ! He can take the carriage , which is waiting below . 
Miss Light carried out this undertaking with unfaltering ardor . 
The Cavaliere was summoned , and he stook to receive her commands hat in hand , with his eyes cast down , as if she had been a princess addressing her major domo . 
She , however , laid her hand with friendly grace upon his button hole , and called him a dear , good old Cavaliere , for being always so willing . 
Her spirits had risen with the occasion , and she talked irresistible nonsense . 
Bring the best they have , she said , no matter if it ruins us ! And if the best is very bad , it will be all the more amusing . 
But I leave all that to you , my poor , dear Cavaliere you know what 's good ! Only be sure , above all , you bring a guitar . 
Her good humor was contagious . 
As for Rowland , the spirit of kindly mirth prompted him to propose the health of this useful old gentleman , as the effective author of their pleasure . 
To perform punctiliously his mysterious duties toward the two ladies , and to elude or to baffle observation on his own merits this seemed the Cavaliere's modest programme . 
Rowland perceived that Mrs. Light , who was not always remarkable for tact , seemed to have divined his humor on this point . 
She touched her glass to her lips , but offered him no compliment and immediately gave another direction to the conversation . 
He had brought no guitar , so that when the feast was over there was nothing to hold the little group together . 
The Cavaliere was a mine of information upon all Roman places and people he told Rowland a number of curious anecdotes about the old Villa Mondragone . 
If history could always be taught in this fashion ! thought Rowland . 
It 's the ideal strolling up and down on the very spot commemorated , hearing sympathetic anecdotes from deeply indigenous lips . 
Rowland touched his companion's arm and pointed to the melancholy nobleman . 
Why in the world does he not go after her and insist on being noticed ! he asked . 
Oh , he 's very proud ! said the Cavaliere . 
That 's all very well , but a gentleman who cultivates a passion for that young lady must be prepared to make sacrifices . 
He thinks he has already made a great many . 
He comes of a very great family a race of princes who for six hundred years have married none but the daughters of princes . 
But he is seriously in love , and he would marry her to morrow . 
And she will not have him ? Ah , she is very proud , too ! The Cavaliere was silent a moment , as if he were measuring the propriety of frankness . 
If you said more , you would say that , eh ? The Cavaliere's shrewdness exchanged a glance with Rowland's . 
Miss Light is a singular girl she has many romantic ideas . 
She would be quite capable of interesting herself seriously in an interesting young man , like your friend , and doing her utmost to discourage a splendid suitor , like the prince . 
She would act sincerely and she would go very far . 
I can answer for it . 
And what would be her motive ? She would be forced . 
I can't tell you more . 
But this implies that the rejected suitor would also come back . 
He might grow tired of waiting . 
Oh , this one is good ! Look at him now . 
Rowland looked , and saw that the prince had left his place by Mrs. Light and was marching restlessly to and fro between the villa and the parapet of the terrace . 
Every now and then he looked at his watch . 
In this country , you know , said the Cavaliere , a young lady never goes walking alone with a handsome young man . 
It seems to him very strange . 
It must seem to him monstrous , and if he overlooks it he must be very much in love . 
Oh , he will overlook it . 
Who is this exemplary lover , then what is he ? A Neapolitan one of the oldest houses in Italy . 
He is a prince in your English sense of the word , for he has a princely fortune . 
He is very young he is only just of age he saw the signorina last winter in Naples . 
Meantime he has passed his majority , and he can dispose of himself . 
I have investigated the question minutely , and I find this is but a fiction to frighten us . 
He is perfectly free but the estates are such that it is no wonder they wish to keep them in their own hands . 
For Italy , it is an extraordinary case of unincumbered property . 
The prince has been an orphan from his third year he has therefore had a long minority and made no inroads upon his fortune . 
Besides , he is very prudent and orderly I am only afraid that some day he will pull the purse strings too tight . 
All these years his affairs have been in the hands of Monsignor B , who has managed them to perfection paid off mortagages , planted forests , opened up mines . 
It is now a magnificent fortune such a fortune as , with his name , would justify the young man in pretending to any alliance whatsoever . 
And he lays it all at the feet of that young girl who is wandering in yonder boschetto with a penniless artist . 
He is certainly a phoenix of princes ! The signora must be in a state of bliss . 
The Cavaliere looked imperturbably grave . 
The signora has a high esteem for his character . 
He is not brilliant , nor witty , but he 'll not let himself be made a fool of . 
He 's very grave and very devout though he does propose to marry a Protestant . 
He will handle that point after marriage . 
The poor young man , I am sure , is profoundly perplexed . 
She would make too perfect a princess to miss her destiny . 
But it is mysterious , as you say , and you need n't try to guess it . 
The poor signorina , then , will suffer ! Not too much , I hope . 
And the poor young man ! You maintain that there is nothing but disappointment in store for the infatuated youth who loses his heart to her ! The Cavaliere hesitated . 
He had better , he said in a moment , go and pursue his studies in Florence . 
There are very fine antiques in the Uffizi ! Rowland presently joined Mrs. Light , to whom her restless protege had not yet returned . 
That 's right , she said sit down here I have something serious to say to you . 
I am going to talk to you as a friend . 
In fact , I demand it it 's your duty to render it . 
Look at that unhappy young man . 
Yes , said Rowland , he seems unhappy . 
So the Cavaliere tells me . 
The Cavaliere should n't gossip , said Mrs. Light dryly . 
Such information should come from me . 
The prince is pining , as I say he 's consumed , he 's devoured . 
It 's a real Italian passion I know what that means ! And the lady gave a speaking glance , which seemed to coquet for a moment with retrospect . 
Meanwhile , if you please , my daughter is hiding in the woods with your dear friend Mr. Hudson . 
I could cry with rage . 
If things are so bad as that , said Rowland , it seems to me that you ought to find nothing easier than to dispatch the Cavaliere to bring the guilty couple back . 
Never in the world ! My hands are tied . 
That costs you little to say . 
You came and disinterred poor Hudson in his own secluded studio . 
In an evil hour ! I wish to Heaven you would talk with him . 
I have done my best . 
I wish , then , you would take him away . 
You have plenty of money . 
Go to the East go to Timbuctoo . 
Then , when Christina is Princess Casamassima , Mrs. Light added in a moment , he may come back if he chooses . 
Does she really care for him ? Rowland asked , abruptly . 
She thinks she does , possibly . 
She is a living riddle . 
She must needs follow out every idea that comes into her head . 
Fortunately , most of them don't last long but this one may last long enough to give the prince a chill . 
If that were to happen , I don't know what I should do ! I should be the most miserable of women . 
It would be too cruel , after all I 've suffered to make her what she is , to see the labor of years blighted by a caprice . 
For I can assure you , sir , Mrs. Light went on , that if my daughter is the greatest beauty in the world , some of the credit is mine . 
Rowland promptly remarked that this was obvious . 
He saw that the lady's irritated nerves demanded comfort from flattering reminiscence , and he assumed designedly the attitude of a zealous auditor . 
She began to retail her efforts , her hopes , her dreams , her presentiments , her disappointments , in the cause of her daughter's matrimonial fortunes . 
They had been her religion she had none other , and she performed her devotions bravely and cheerily , in the light of day . 
But it was still brought forth in moments of trouble to have its tinseled petticoat twisted about and be set up on its altar . 
This conscience upside down presented to Rowland's fancy a real physical image he was on the point , half a dozen times , of bursting out laughing . 
I don't know whether you believe in presentiments , said Mrs. Light , and I don't care ! I have had one for the last fifteen years . 
People have laughed at it , but they have n't laughed me out of it . 
It has been everything to me . 
I could n't have lived without it . 
One must believe in something ! It came to me in a flash , when Christina was five years old . 
I remember the day and the place , as if it were yesterday . 
She was a very ugly baby for the first two years I could hardly bear to look at her , and I used to spoil my own looks with crying about her . 
She had an Italian nurse who was very fond of her and insisted that she would grow up pretty . 
I could n't believe her I used to contradict her , and we were forever squabbling . 
I was just a little silly in those days surely I may say it now and I was very fond of being amused . 
If my daughter was ugly , it was not that she resembled her mamma I had no lack of amusement . 
People accused me , I believe , of neglecting my little girl if it was so , I 've made up for it since . 
One day I went to drive on the Pincio in very low spirits . 
A trusted friend had greatly disappointed me . 
While I was there he passed me in a carriage , driving with a horrible woman who had made trouble between us . 
I got out of my carriage to walk about , and at last sat down on a bench . 
I can show you the spot at this hour . 
While I sat there a child came wandering along the path a little girl of four or five , very fantastically dressed in crimson and orange . 
She stopped in front of me and stared at me , and I stared at her queer little dress , which was a cheap imitation of the costume of one of these contadine . 
All of a sudden I gave a cry , pounced on it , pressed it in my arms , and covered it with kisses . 
She knew me , but she said afterwards that she had not spoken to me because I looked so angry . 
Of course my face was sad . 
I rushed with my child to the carriage , drove home post haste , pulled off her rags , and , as I may say , wrapped her in cotton . 
From that time I lived only for my daughter . 
I watched her , I caressed her from morning till night , I worshipped her . 
I went to see doctors about her , I took every sort of advice . 
I was determined she should be perfection . 
She never raised a finger for herself , she breathed nothing but perfumes , she walked upon velvet . 
She never was out of my sight , and from that day to this I have never said a sharp word to her . 
Her hair reached down to her feet her hands were the hands of a princess . 
Then I saw that she was as clever as she was beautiful , and that she had only to play her cards . 
She had masters , professors , every educational advantage . 
They told me she was a little prodigy . 
She speaks French , Italian , German , better than most natives . 
I said , 'No , I thank you , sir she is meant to be something finer than a princesse de theatre . 
I had a passionate belief that she might marry absolutely whom she chose , that she might be a princess out and out . 
It has never left me till this hour , and I can assure you that it has sustained me in many embarrassments . 
She would have nothing to do with shabby things or shabby people if she stained one of her frocks , she was seized with a kind of frenzy and tore it to pieces . 
At Nice , at Baden , at Brighton , wherever we stayed , she used to be sent for by all the great people to play with their children . 
The Empress certainly is a pretty woman but what is my Christina , pray ? I 've dreamt of it , sometimes every night for a month . 
I won't tell you I have been to consult those old women who advertise in the newspapers you 'll call me an old imbecile . 
Even in such a position she would hold her head very high , and if anything should happen to her , she would make no concessions to the popular fury . 
The best thing , if one is prudent , seems to be a nobleman of the highest possible rank , short of belonging to a reigning stock . 
What an education , what a history , what a school of character and of morals ! He looked at the prince and wondered whether he too had heard Mrs. Light's story . 
If he had he was a brave man . 
I certainly hope you 'll keep him , he said to Mrs. Light . 
You have played a dangerous game with your daughter it would be a pity not to win . 
Bless my soul , how they are all looking at us ! she cried , as they advanced . 
I hope you , on your side , have enjoyed each other's society . 
My dear daughter , said Mrs. Light , taking the arm of her predestined son in law , I shall have something serious to say to you when we reach home . 
We will go back to the carriage . 
Something serious ! Decidedly , it is the Inquisition . 
Mr. Hudson , stand firm , and let us agree to make no confessions without conferring previously with each other ! They may put us on the rack first . 
But it must be for some other time . 
I am at your service . 
I see our good humor is gone . 
And I only wanted to be amiable ! It is very discouraging . 
Rowland found himself aroused from sleep early the next morning , to see Roderick standing before him , dressed for departure , with his bag in his hand . 
I am off , he said . 
I am back to work . 
I must strike while the iron 's hot ! Farewell ! And he departed by the first train . 
Rowland went alone by the next . 
Saint Cecilia's Rowland went often to the Coliseum he never wearied of it . 
It seemed to him that he had seen her before , but he was unable to localize her face . 
Passing her again , he perceived that one of the little red legged French soldiers at that time on guard there had approached her and was gallantly making himself agreeable . 
of a certain comely Assunta , who sometimes opened the door for Mrs. Light's visitors . 
In other words , she had an appointment with her lover , who had better , from present appearances , be punctual . 
The views were as fine as he had supposed the lights on the Sabine Mountains had never been more lovely . 
He gazed to his satisfaction and retraced his steps . 
In a moment he paused again on an abutment somewhat lower , from which the glance dropped dizzily into the interior . 
There are chance anfractuosities of ruin in the upper portions of the Coliseum which offer a very fair imitation of the rugged face of an Alpine cliff . 
Rowland was turning away , when he heard a sound of voices rising up from below . 
He had but to step slightly forward to find himself overlooking two persons who had seated themselves on a narrow ledge , in a sunny corner . 
They had apparently had an eye to extreme privacy , but they had not observed that their position was commanded by Rowland's stand point . 
One of these airy adventurers was a lady , thickly veiled , so that , even if he had not been standing directly above her , Rowland could not have seen her face . 
A moment's reflection , hereupon , satisfied him of the identity of the lady . 
He had been unjust to poor Assunta , sitting patient in the gloomy arena she had not come on her own errand . 
Rowland's discoveries made him hesitate . 
Should he retire as noiselessly as possible , or should he call out a friendly good morning ? While he was debating the question , he found himself distinctly hearing his friends' words . 
If what you say is true , said Christina , with her usual soft deliberateness it made her words rise with peculiar distinctness to Rowland's ear you are simply weak . 
I am sorry ! I hoped I really believed you were not . 
No , I am not weak , answered Roderick , with vehemence I maintain that I am not weak ! I am incomplete , perhaps but I can't help that . 
Weakness is a man's own fault ! Incomplete , then ! said Christina , with a laugh . 
It 's the same thing , so long as it keeps you from splendid achievement . 
A man , at least , whom I can unrestrictedly admire . 
When I first knew you , I gave no sign , but you had struck me . 
I observed you , as women observe , and I fancied you had the sacred fire . 
Before heaven , I believe I have ! cried Roderick . 
Ah , but so little ! It flickers and trembles and sputters it goes out , you tell me , for whole weeks together . 
From your own account , it 's ten to one that in the long run you 're a failure . 
I am a miserable medley of vanity and folly . 
I am silly , I am ignorant , I am affected , I am false . 
I am the fruit of a horrible education , sown on a worthless soil . 
I don't know what you think of me for saying all this I suppose we have not climbed up here under the skies to play propriety . 
Rowland was too interested to think of moving . 
You pretend to such devotion , she went on , and yet I am sure you have never really chosen between me and that person in America . 
Do me the favor not to speak of her , said Roderick , imploringly . 
Why not ? I say no ill of her , and I think all kinds of good . 
I am certain she is a far better girl than I , and far more likely to make you happy . 
You have never really faced the fact that you are false , that you have broken your faith . 
He bent his head and rested his forehead on his knees . 
Christina went on with a sort of infernal calmness I believe that , really , you don't greatly care for your friend in America any more than you do for me . 
You are one of the men who care only for themselves and for what they can make of themselves . 
That 's very well when they can make something great , and I could interest myself in a man of extraordinary power who should wish to turn all his passions to account . 
The language I should like to hear , from a certain person , would be the language of absolute decision . 
Roderick raised his head , but he said nothing he seemed to be exchanging a long glance with his companion . 
The result of it was to make him fling himself back with an inarticulate murmur . 
Rowland , admonished by the silence , was on the point of turning away , but he was arrested by a gesture of the young girl . 
She pointed for a moment into the blue air . 
Roderick followed the direction of her gesture . 
Roderick turned his head and looked at it without answering . 
At last , glancing round , Put up your veil ! he said . 
Does it look as blue now ? he asked . 
Ah , what a lovely color ! she murmured , leaning her head on one side . 
Would you like to have it ? She stared a moment and then broke into a light laugh . 
Would you like to have it ? he repeated in a ringing voice . 
Don't look as if you would eat me up , she answered . 
It 's harmless if I say yes ! Roderick rose to his feet and stood looking at the little flower . 
It was separated from the ledge on which he stood by a rugged surface of vertical wall , which dropped straight into the dusky vaults behind the arena . 
Suddenly he took off his hat and flung it behind him . 
Christina then sprang to her feet . 
I will bring it you , he said . 
Are you crazy ? Do you mean to kill yourself ? I shall not kill myself . 
Sit down ! Excuse me . 
Not till you do ! And she grasped his arm with both hands . 
Roderick shook her off and pointed with a violent gesture to her former place . 
Go there ! he cried fiercely . 
You can never , never ! she murmured beseechingly , clasping her hands . 
Rowland had seen all this , and he saw more . 
Rowland had measured with a glance the possibility of his sustaining himself , and pronounced it absolutely nil . 
The wall was garnished with a series of narrow projections , the remains apparently of a brick cornice supporting the arch of a vault which had long since collapsed . 
It was by lodging his toes on these loose brackets and grasping with his hands at certain mouldering protuberances on a level with his head , that Roderick intended to proceed . 
The relics of the cornice were utterly worthless as a support . 
Rowland had observed this , and yet , for a moment , he had hesitated . 
If the thing were possible , he felt a sudden admiring glee at the thought of Roderick's doing it . 
It would be finely done , it would be gallant , it would have a sort of masculine eloquence as an answer to Christina's sinister persiflage . 
He turned , staring , pale and angry . 
Christina rose , pale and staring , too , but beautiful in her wonder and alarm . 
My dear Roderick , said Rowland , I am only preventing you from doing a very foolish thing . 
That 's an exploit for spiders , not for young sculptors of promise . 
Roderick wiped his forehead , looked back at the wall , and then closed his eyes , as if with a spasm , of retarded dizziness . 
I won't resist you , he said . 
But I have made you obey , he added , turning to Christina . 
Of course , as they were descending the steps , came questions for Rowland to answer , and more or less surprise . 
Interference seemed justifiable , and he had made it as prompt as possible . 
Christina descended to the arena in silence , apparently occupied with her own thoughts . 
She betrayed no sense of the privacy of her interview with Roderick needing an explanation . 
Rowland had played eavesdropper to so good a purpose that he might justly have omitted the ceremony of denouncing himself to Roderick . 
He preferred , however , to let him know that he had overheard a portion of his talk with Christina . 
Of course it seems to you , Roderick said , a proof that I am utterly infatuated . 
Miss Light seemed to me to know very well how far she could go , Rowland answered . 
She was twisting you round her finger . 
Yes , said Roderick , meditatively she is making a fool of me . 
And in the light of your late interview , what do you make of your young lady ? If I could tell you that , it would be plain sailing . 
But she 'll not tell me again I am weak ! Are you very sure you are not weak ? I may be , but she shall never know it . 
Rowland said no more until they reached the Corso , when he asked his companion whether he was going to his studio . 
Roderick started out of a reverie and passed his hands over his eyes . 
Oh no , I can't settle down to work after such a scene as that . 
I was not afraid of breaking my neck then , but I feel all in a tremor now . 
Since his return from Frascati , Roderick had been working doggedly at the statue ordered by Mr. Leavenworth . 
It was all against the grain he wrought without love . 
Nevertheless after a fashion he wrought , and the figure grew beneath his hands . 
Miss Blanchard's friend was ordering works of art on every side , and his purveyors were in many cases persons whom Roderick declared it was infamy to be paired with . 
As a customer , Mr. Leavenworth used to drop into Roderick's studio , to see how things were getting on , and give a friendly hint or so . 
Roderick admitted that in thinking over the tribulations of struggling genius , the danger of dying of over patronage had never occurred to him . 
The deterring effect of the episode of the Coliseum was apparently of long continuance if Roderick's nerves had been shaken his hand needed time to recover its steadiness . 
He cultivated composure upon principles of his own by frequenting entertainments from which he returned at four o'clock in the morning , and lapsing into habits which might fairly be called irregular . 
He declared there was not one of them whose works gave him the smallest desire to make acquaintance with the insides of their heads . 
For Gloriani he professed a superb contempt , and , having been once to look at his wares , never crossed his threshold again . 
Roderick never exactly accepted homage , and apparently did not quite observe whether poor Singleton spoke in admiration or in blame . 
Roderick's taste as to companions was singularly capricious . 
He used to give the most fantastic reasons for his likes and dislikes . 
I like to talk to a man whose ancestor has walled up his wife alive , he would say . 
You may not see the fun of it , and think poor P is a very dull fellow . 
It 's very possible I don't ask you to admire him . 
But , for reasons of my own , I like to have him about . 
Rowland was going to bed , but Roderick flung himself into an armchair and chattered for an hour . 
The friends of the Costa Rican envoy were as amusing as himself , and in very much the same line . 
It was awfully low , Roderick said all of a sudden I perceived it , and bolted . 
Nothing of that kind ever amuses me to the end before it 's half over it bores me to death it makes me sick . 
that he has seen too early in life la beaute parfaite . 
Everything is mean and dusky and shabby , and the men and women who make up this so called brilliant society are the meanest and shabbiest of all . 
They have no real spontaneity they are all cowards and popinjays . 
They have no more dignity than so many grasshoppers . 
Nothing is good but one ! And he jumped up and stood looking at one of his statues , which shone vaguely across the room in the dim lamplight . 
Yes , do tell us , said Rowland , what to hold on by ! Those things of mine were tolerably good , he answered . 
But my idea was better and that 's what I mean ! Rowland said nothing . 
He was willing to wait for Roderick to complete the circle of his metamorphoses , but he had no desire to officiate as chorus to the play . 
If Roderick chose to fish in troubled waters , he must land his prizes himself . 
You think I 'm an impudent humbug , the latter said at last , coming up to moralize at this hour of the night . 
You think I want to throw dust into your eyes , to put you off the scent . 
That 's your eminently rational view of the case . 
Excuse me from taking any view at all , said Rowland . 
You have given me up , then ? No , I have merely suspended judgment . 
You have ceased then positively to believe in me ? Rowland made an angry gesture . 
Oh , cruel boy ! When you have hit your mark and made people care for you , you should n't twist your weapon about at that rate in their vitals . 
Allow me to say I am sleepy . 
Good night ! Some days afterward it happened that Rowland , on a long afternoon ramble , took his way through one of the quiet corners of the Trastevere . 
He was particularly fond of this part of Rome , though he could hardly have expressed the charm he found in it . 
When the yellow afternoon sunshine slept on the sallow , battered walls , and lengthened the shadows in the grassy courtyards of small closed churches , the place acquired a strange fascination . 
The church of Saint Cecilia has one of these sunny , waste looking courts the edifice seems abandoned to silence and the charity of chance devotion . 
Rowland never passed it without going in , and he was generally the only visitor . 
He entered it now , but found that two persons had preceded him . 
One was at her prayers at one of the side altars the other was seated against a column at the upper end of the nave . 
As he turned away he looked at the person seated and recognized Christina Light . 
Seeing that she perceived him , he advanced to speak to her . 
She was sitting in a listless attitude , with her hands in her lap she seemed to be tired . 
She was dressed simply , as if for walking and escaping observation . 
When he had greeted her he glanced back at her companion , and recognized the faithful Assunta . 
Are you looking for Mr. Hudson ? He is not here , I am happy to say . 
But you ? he asked . 
This is a strange place to find you . 
Not at all ! People call me a strange girl , and I might as well have the comfort of it . 
I came to take a walk that , by the way , is part of my strangeness . 
I can't loll all the morning on a sofa , and all the afternoon in a carriage . 
I must move I must do something and see something . 
Mamma suggests a cup of tea . 
Meanwhile I put on an old dress and half a dozen veils , I take Assunta under my arm , and we start on a pedestrian tour . 
It 's a bore that I can't take the poodle , but he attracts attention . 
We trudge about everywhere there is nothing I like so much . 
I hope you will congratulate me on the simplicity of my tastes . 
I congratulate you on your wisdom . 
To live in Rome and not to walk would , I think , be poor pleasure . 
But you are terribly far from home , and I am afraid you are tired . 
A little enough to sit here a while . 
Might I offer you my company while you rest ? If you will promise to amuse me . 
I am in dismal spirits . 
Rowland said he would do what he could , and brought a chair and placed it near her . 
The background of her nature , as he would have called it , was large and mysterious , and it emitted strange , fantastic gleams and flashes . 
Watching for these rather quickened one's pulses . 
Moreover , it was not a disadvantage to talk to a girl who made one keep guard on one's composure it diminished one's chronic liability to utter something less than revised wisdom . 
Assunta had risen from her prayers , and , as he took his place , was coming back to her mistress . 
But Christina motioned her away . 
No , no while you are about it , say a few dozen more ! she said . 
Pray for me , she added in English . 
Pray , I say nothing silly . 
It was when I was about sixteen years old . 
I read the Imitation and the Life of Saint Catherine . 
I fully believed in the miracles of the saints , and I was dying to have one of my own . 
The least little accident that could have been twisted into a miracle would have carried me straight into the bosom of the church . 
I had the real religious passion . 
But the trait was not disagreeable , for she herself was evidently the foremost dupe of her inventions . 
She had a fictitious history in which she believed much more fondly than in her real one , and an infinite capacity for extemporized reminiscence adapted to the mood of the hour . 
And Rowland felt that whatever she said of herself might have been , under the imagined circumstances impulse was there , audacity , the restless , questioning temperament . 
I don't see an opening as big as your finger nail where I could creep into it ! What do you believe ? asked Christina , looking at him . 
Are you religious ? I believe in God . 
Christina let her beautiful eyes wander a while , and then gave a little sigh . 
You are much to be envied ! You , I imagine , in that line have nothing to envy me . 
Rest ! You are too young to say that . 
I am not young I have never been young ! My mother took care of that . 
I was a little wrinkled old woman at ten . 
I am afraid , said Rowland , in a moment , that you are fond of painting yourself in dark colors . 
She looked at him a while in silence . 
Do you wish , she demanded at last , to win my eternal gratitude ? Prove to me that I am better than I suppose . 
I should have first to know what you really suppose . 
You would be horrified to learn even the things I imagine about myself , and shocked at the knowledge of evil displayed in my very mistakes . 
Well , then , said Rowland , I will ask no questions . 
But , at a venture , I promise you to catch you some day in the act of doing something very good . 
Oh , I have not abandoned it ! said Rowland and he determined , since he had the credit of homely directness , to push his advantage farther . 
But while he was hesitating as to just how to begin , the young girl said , bending forward and clasping her hands in her lap , Please tell me about your religion . 
Tell you about it ? I can't ! said Rowland , with a good deal of emphasis . 
Religion , it seems to me , should be eloquent and aggressive . 
It should wish to make converts , to persuade and illumine , to sway all hearts ! One's religion takes the color of one's general disposition . 
I am not aggressive , and certainly I am not eloquent . 
To tell the truth , my lonely musings , before you came in , were eloquent enough , in their way . 
But one's religion is extremely ingenious in doing without knowledge . 
In such a world as this it certainly needs to be ! Rowland smiled . 
What is your particular quarrel with this world ? It 's a general quarrel . 
Nothing is true , or fixed , or permanent . 
We all seem to be playing with shadows more or less grotesque . 
It all comes over me here so dismally ! The very atmosphere of this cold , deserted church seems to mock at one's longing to believe in something . 
And yet the Catholic church was once the proudest institution in the world , and had quite its own way with men's souls . 
Live as most amuses you ! Your perplexities are so terribly comprehensive , said Rowland , smiling , that one hardly knows where to meet them first . 
I don't care much for anything you can say , because it 's sure to be half hearted . 
You are not in the least contented , yourself . 
How do you know that ? Oh , I am an observer ! No one is absolutely contented , I suppose , but I assure you I complain of nothing . 
So much the worse for your honesty . 
To begin with , you are in love . 
You would not have me complain of that ! And it does n't go well . 
So much I know ! You need n't protest I ask no questions . 
You will tell no one me least of all . 
It would be because I should have something very particular to say . 
I have not come , because I have been slow in making up my mind to say it . 
Something particular , in this ocean of inanities ? In common charity , speak ! I doubt whether you will like it . 
Oh , I hope to heaven it 's not a compliment ! It may be called a compliment to your reasonableness . 
You perhaps remember that I gave you a hint of it the other day at Frascati . 
Has it been hanging fire all this time ? Explode ! I promise not to stop my ears . 
It relates to my friend Hudson . 
She was looking at him expectantly her face gave no sign . 
I am rather disturbed in mind about him . 
He seems to me at times to be in an unpromising way . 
He paused again , but Christina said nothing . 
The case is simply this , he went on . 
It was by my advice he renounced his career at home and embraced his present one . 
I made him burn his ships . 
I brought him to Rome , I launched him in the world , and I stand surety , in a measure , to to his mother , for his prosperity . 
It is not such smooth sailing as it might be , and I am inclined to put up prayers for fair winds . 
If he is to succeed , he must work quietly , devotedly . 
It is not news to you , I imagine , that Hudson is a great admirer of yours . 
Christina remained silent she turned away her eyes with an air , not of confusion , but of deep deliberation . 
Mr. Hudson is in love with me ! she said . 
Then Am I , he asked , from this point of view of mine , to be glad or sorry ? I don't understand you . 
Why , is Hudson to be happy , or unhappy ? She hesitated a moment . 
You wish him to be great in his profession ? And for that you consider that he must be happy in his life ? Decidedly . 
I don't say it 's a general rule , but I think it is a rule for him . 
So that if he were very happy , he would become very great ? He would at least do himself justice . 
And by that you mean a great deal ? A great deal . 
Christina sank back in her chair and rested her eyes on the cracked and polished slabs of the pavement . 
At last , looking up , You have not forgotten , I suppose , that you told me he was engaged ? By no means . 
He is still engaged , then ? To the best of my belief . 
And yet you desire that , as you say , he should be made happy by something I can do for him ? What I desire is this . 
That your great influence with him should be exerted for his good , that it should help him and not retard him . 
You probably know that your lovers have rather a restless time of it . 
I can answer for two of them . 
You don't know your own mind very well , I imagine , and you like being admired , rather at the expense of the admirer . 
Since we are really being frank , I wonder whether I might not say the great word . 
You need n't I know it . 
I am a horrible coquette . 
No , not a horrible one , since I am making an appeal to your generosity . 
I am pretty sure you cannot imagine yourself marrying my friend . 
There 's nothing I cannot imagine ! That is my trouble . 
I cannot imagine it , then ! he affirmed . 
Christina flushed faintly then , very gently , I am not so bad as you think , she said . 
It is not a question of badness it is a question of whether circumstances don't make the thing an extreme improbability . 
I can be bullied , then , or bribed ! You are not so candid , said Rowland , as you pretend to be . 
Hudson , as I understand him , does not need , as an artist , the stimulus of strong emotion , of passion . 
He's better without it he's emotional and passionate enough when he 's left to himself . 
If you cared for him enough to marry him , I should have nothing to say I would never venture to interfere . 
But I strongly suspect you don't , and therefore I would suggest , most respectfully , that you should let him alone . 
And if I let him alone , as you say , all will be well with him for ever more ? Not immediately and not absolutely , but things will be easier . 
He will be better able to concentrate himself . 
What is he doing now ? Wherein does he dissatisfy you ? I can hardly say . 
He 's like a watch that 's running down . 
He is moody , desultory , idle , irregular , fantastic . 
Heavens , what a list ! And it 's all poor me ? No , not all . 
But you are a part of it , and I turn to you because you are a more tangible , sensible , responsible cause than the others . 
Christina raised her hand to her eyes , and bent her head thoughtfully . 
Rowland was puzzled to measure the effect of his venture she rather surprised him by her gentleness . 
Christina said nothing more , and Rowland , to let her make her reflections , left his place and strolled away . 
Rowland presently seated himself again near Christina . 
What do you think , she asked , looking at him , of your friend's infidelity ? I don't like it . 
Was he very much in love with her ? He asked her to marry him . 
Is she rich ? No , she is poor . 
Is she very much in love with him ? I know her too little to say . 
Hudson has not at all the air of a prosperous suitor . 
If he is depressed , there is a reason . 
He has a bad conscience . 
One must hope so , at least . 
There are doubtless many good things you might do , if you had proper opportunity , he said . 
But you seem to be sailing with a current which leaves you little leisure for quiet benevolence . 
You live in the whirl and hurry of a world into which a poor artist can hardly find it to his advantage to follow you . 
In plain English , I am hopelessly frivolous . 
You put it very generously . 
I won't hesitate to say all my thought , said Rowland . 
For better or worse , you seem to me to belong , both by character and by circumstance , to what is called the world , the great world . 
You are made to ornament it magnificently . 
You are not made to be an artist's wife . 
But even from your point of view , that would depend upon the artist . 
Extraordinary talent might make him a member of the great world ! Rowland smiled . 
What things do you mean ? Well , for example , how I was brought up . 
I have had a horrible education . 
There must be some good in me , since I have perceived it , since I have turned and judged my circumstances . 
My dear Miss Light ! Rowland murmured . 
She gave a little , quick laugh . 
You don't want to hear ? you don't want to have to think about that ? Have I a right to ? You need n't justify yourself . 
She turned upon him a moment the quickened light of her beautiful eyes , then fell to musing again . 
You do something I shall greatly respect , he contented himself with saying . 
She made no answer , and in a moment she beckoned to her maid . 
What have I to do to day ? she asked . 
Eh , it 's a very busy day ! Fortunately I have a better memory than the signorina , she said , turning to Rowland . 
She began to count on her fingers . 
We have to go to the Pie di Marmo to see about those laces that were sent to be washed . 
You said also that you wished to say three sharp words to the Buonvicini about your pink dress . 
You want some moss rosebuds for to night , and you won't get them for nothing ! You dine at the Austrian Embassy , and that Frenchman is to powder your hair . 
You 're to come home in time to receive , for the signora gives a dance . 
And so away , away till morning ! Ah , yes , the moss roses ! Christina murmured , caressingly . 
I must have a quantity at least a hundred . 
Nothing but buds , eh ? You must sew them in a kind of immense apron , down the front of my dress . 
Packed tight together , eh ? It will be delightfully barbarous . 
And then twenty more or so for my hair . 
They go very well with powder don't you think so ? And she turned to Rowland . 
I am going en Pompadour . 
Going where ? To the Spanish Embassy , or whatever it is . 
All down the front , signorina ? Dio buono ! You must give me time ! Assunta cried . 
Yes , we'll go ! And she left her place . 
Before reaching the door she turned away and stood gazing at an old picture , indistinguishable with blackness , over an altar . 
At last they passed out into the court . 
Glancing at her in the open air , Rowland was startled he imagined he saw the traces of hastily suppressed tears . 
They had lost time , she said , and they must hurry she sent Assunta to look for a fiacre . 
She remained silent a while , scratching the ground with the point of her parasol , and then at last , looking up , she thanked Rowland for his confidence in her reasonableness . 
In that deserted quarter fiacres are rare , and there was some delay in Assunta's procuring one . 
Christina talked of the church , of the picturesque old court , of that strange , decaying corner of Rome . 
Rowland was perplexed he was ill at ease . 
At last the fiacre arrived , but she waited a moment longer . 
So , decidedly , she suddenly asked , I can only harm him ? You make me feel very brutal , said Rowland . 
And he is such a fine fellow that it would be really a great pity , eh ? I shall praise him no more , Rowland said . 
She turned away quickly , but she lingered still . 
I will think of what you have said to me . 
She stepped into the carriage , and it rolled away . 
Rowland stood for some minutes , looking after it , and then went his way with a sigh . 
If this expressed general mistrust , he ought , three days afterward , to have been reassured . 
He received by the post a note containing these words I have done it . 
Begin and respect me ! C. L. To be perfectly satisfactory , indeed , the note required a commentary . 
Provocation About a month later , Rowland addressed to his cousin Cecilia a letter of which the following is a portion . 
I need a good deal of courage to begin this chapter . 
You warned me , you know , and I made rather light of your warning . 
I have had all kinds of hopes and fears , but hitherto , in writing to you , I have resolutely put the hopes foremost . 
Now , however , my pride has forsaken me , and I should like hugely to give expression to a little comfortable despair . 
If this is salubrity , give me raging disease ! I 'm pestered to death I go about with a chronic heartache there are moments when I could shed salt tears . 
I sit holding my head by the hour , racking my brain , wondering what under heaven is to be done . 
You told me at Northampton that I took the thing too easily you would tell me now , perhaps , that I take it too hard . 
I do , altogether but it can't be helped . 
Without flattering myself , I may say I 'm sympathetic . 
Many another man before this would have cast his perplexities to the winds and declared that Mr. Hudson must lie on his bed as he had made it . 
Some men , perhaps , would even say that I am making a mighty ado about nothing that I have only to give him rope , and he will tire himself out . 
But he tugs at his rope altogether too hard for me to hold it comfortably . 
I have done my best , and if the machine is running down I have a right to stand aside and let it scuttle . 
Amen , amen ! No , I can write that , but I can't feel it . 
I can't be just I can only be generous . 
I love the poor fellow and I can't give him up . 
As for understanding him , that 's another matter nowadays I don't believe even you would . 
One's wits are sadly pestered over here , I assure you , and I 'm in the way of seeing more than one puzzling specimen of human nature . 
Roderick and Miss Light , between them ! . 
Have n't I already told you about Miss Light ? Last winter everything was perfection . 
Roderick struck out bravely , did really great things , and proved himself , as I supposed , thoroughly solid . 
He was strong , he was first rate I felt perfectly secure and sang private paeans of joy . 
We had passed at a bound into the open sea , and left danger behind . 
But in the summer I began to be puzzled , though I succeeded in not being alarmed . 
When we came back to Rome , however , I saw that the tide had turned and that we were close upon the rocks . 
It is , in fact , another case of Ulysses alongside of the Sirens only Roderick refuses to be tied to the mast . 
He is the most extraordinary being , the strangest mixture of qualities . 
I don't understand so much force going with so much weakness such a brilliant gift being subject to such lapses . 
The poor fellow is incomplete , and it is really not his own fault Nature has given him the faculty out of hand and bidden him be hanged with it . 
I never knew a man harder to advise or assist , if he is not in the mood for listening . 
He perplexes me , as I say , to death , and though he tires out my patience , he still fascinates me . 
Sometimes I think he has n't a grain of conscience , and sometimes I think that , in a way , he has an excess . 
He takes things at once too easily and too hard he is both too lax and too tense , too reckless and too ambitious , too cold and too passionate . 
He has developed faster even than you prophesied , and for good and evil alike he takes up a formidable space . 
There 's too much of him for me , at any rate . 
Yes , he is hard there is no mistake about that . 
He 's inflexible , he 's brittle and though he has plenty of spirit , plenty of soul , he has n't what I call a heart . 
He has something that Miss Garland took for one , and I 'm pretty sure she 's a judge . 
But she judged on scanty evidence . 
Roderick's standard is immensely high I must do him that justice . 
He will do nothing beneath it , and while he is waiting for inspiration , his imagination , his nerves , his senses must have something to amuse them . 
It is in the matter of quantity that he has broken down . 
The bottle won't pour he turns it upside down it 's no use ! Sometimes he declares it 's empty that he has done all he was made to do . 
This I consider great nonsense but I would nevertheless take him on his own terms if it was only I that was concerned . 
But I keep thinking of those two praying , trusting neighbors of yours , and I feel wretchedly like a swindler . 
Five years of this sort of thing , moreover , would effectually settle the question . 
He was tolerably foolish last summer at Baden Baden , but he got on his feet , and for a while he was steady . 
Then he began to waver again , and at last toppled over . 
Now , literally , he 's lying prone . 
He came into my room last night , miserably tipsy . 
I assure you , it did n't amuse me . 
About Miss Light it 's a long story . 
She is one of the great beauties of all time , and worth coming barefoot to Rome , like the pilgrims of old , to see . 
Her complexion , her glance , her step , her dusky tresses , may have been seen before in a goddess , but never in a woman . 
And you may take this for truth , because I 'm not in love with her . 
On the contrary ! Her education has been simply infernal . 
The other day I tried to manipulate it a little . 
Chance offered me an interview to which it was possible to give a serious turn , and I boldly broke ground and begged her to suffer my poor friend to go in peace . 
After a good deal of finessing she consented , and the next day , with a single word , packed him off to Naples to drown his sorrow in debauchery . 
She 's an actress , she could n't forego doing the thing dramatically , and it was the dramatic touch that made it fatal . 
Roderick made an admirable bust of her at the beginning of the winter , and a dozen women came rushing to him to be done , mutatis mutandis , in the same style . 
They were all great ladies and ready to take him by the hand , but he told them all their faces did n't interest him , and sent them away vowing his destruction . 
At this point of his long effusion , Rowland had paused and put by his letter . 
He kept it three days and then read it over . 
We know he had a talent for taking advice . 
And then it might be , he reflected , that his cousin's answer would throw some light on Mary Garland's present vision of things . 
In his altered mood he added these few lines I unburdened myself the other day of this monstrous load of perplexity I think it did me good , and I let it stand . 
I was in a melancholy muddle , and I was trying to work myself free . 
But Madame Grandoni has disliked Roderick from the first , and if I were to take her advice I would wash my hands of him . 
You will laugh at me for my long face , but you would do that in any circumstances . 
I am half ashamed of my letter , for I have a faith in my friend that is deeper than my doubts . 
I walked back to his lodging with him , and he was as mild as midsummer moonlight . 
He has the ineffable something that charms and convinces my last word about him shall not be a harsh one . 
Shortly after sending his letter , going one day into his friend's studio , he found Roderick suffering from the grave infliction of a visit from Mr. Leavenworth . 
Roderick submitted with extreme ill grace to being bored , and he was now evidently in a state of high exasperation . 
He had lately begun a representation of a lazzarone lounging in the sun an image of serene , irresponsible , sensuous life . 
The real lazzarone , he had admitted , was a vile fellow but the ideal lazzarone and his own had been subtly idealized was a precursor of the millennium . 
Mr. Leavenworth had apparently just transferred his unhurrying gaze to the figure . 
Something in the style of the Dying Gladiator ? he sympathetically observed . 
Sculpture should not deal with transitory attitudes . 
I remember at Florence an intoxicated figure by Michael Angelo which seemed to me a deplorable aberration of a great mind . 
I myself touch liquor in no shape whatever . 
I have traveled through Europe on cold water . 
The most varied and attractive lists of wines are offered me , but I brush them aside . 
No cork has ever been drawn at my command ! The movement of drawing a cork calls into play a very pretty set of muscles , said Roderick . 
I think I will make a figure in that position . 
A Bacchus , realistically treated ! My dear young friend , never trifle with your lofty mission . 
She is neither a naiad nor a dryad , said Roderick , and her name is as good as yours or mine . 
You call her Mr. Leavenworth blandly inquired . 
Miss Light , Rowland interposed , in charity . 
Ah , our great American beauty ! Not a pagan goddess an American , Christian lady ! Yes , I have had the pleasure of conversing with Miss Light . 
Her conversational powers are not remarkable , but her beauty is of a high order . 
But for beauty , grace , and elegance my fair countrywoman left them all nowhere . 
You see more beautiful girls in an hour on Broadway than in the whole tour of Europe . 
Miss Light , now , on Broadway , would excite no particular remark . 
She has never been there ! cried Roderick , triumphantly . 
I 'm afraid she never will be there . 
I suppose you have heard the news about her . 
What news ? Roderick had stood with his back turned , fiercely poking at his lazzarone but at Mr. Leavenworth's last words he faced quickly about . 
It 's the news of the hour , I believe . 
Miss Light is admired by the highest people here . 
They tacitly recognize her superiority . 
She has had offers of marriage from various great lords . 
I was extremely happy to learn this circumstance , and to know that they all had been left sighing . 
She has not been dazzled by their titles and their gilded coronets . 
She has judged them simply as men , and found them wanting . 
One of them , however , a young Neapolitan prince , I believe , has after a long probation succeeded in making himself acceptable . 
Miss Light has at last said yes , and the engagement has just been announced . 
I therefore retained the circumstance . 
Yes , I regret that Miss Light should marry one of these used up foreigners . 
Americans should stand by each other . 
If she wanted a brilliant match we could have fixed it for her . 
If she wanted a fine fellow a fine , sharp , enterprising modern man I would have undertaken to find him for her without going out of the city of New York . 
The young man stood looking at him with parted lips and an excited eye . 
The position of woman , Mr. Leavenworth placidly resumed , is certainly a very degraded one in these countries . 
I doubt whether a European princess can command the respect which in our country is exhibited toward the obscurest females . 
The civilization of a country should be measured by the deference shown to the weaker sex . 
He saw that it had instantly become one with the acute irritation produced by the poor gentleman's oppressive personality , and that an explosion of some sort was imminent . 
Mr. Leavenworth , with calm unconsciousness , proceeded to fire the mine . 
Roderick stood looking at him for a moment with concentrated rancor , and then strode to the statue and twitched off the cover . 
Mr. Leavenworth settled himself into his chair with an air of flattered proprietorship , and scanned the unfinished image . 
I can conscientiously express myself as gratified with the general conception , he said . 
The figure has considerable majesty , and the countenance wears a fine , open expression . 
The forehead , however , strikes me as not sufficiently intellectual . 
In a statue of Culture , you know , that should be the great point . 
The eye should instinctively seek the forehead . 
Could n't you heighten it up a little ? Roderick , for all answer , tossed the sheet back over the statue . 
Oblige me , sir , he said , oblige me ! Never mention that thing again . 
Never mention it ? Why my dear sir Never mention it . 
It 's an abomination ! An abomination ! My Culture ! Yours indeed ! cried Roderick . 
It 's none of mine . 
Disown it , if you please , said Mr. Leavenworth sternly , but finish it first ! I 'd rather smash it ! cried Roderick . 
This is folly , sir . 
You must keep your engagements . 
A sculptor is n't a tailor . 
Did you ever hear of inspiration ? Mine is dead ! And it 's no laughing matter . 
I I killed your inspiration ? cried Mr. Leavenworth , with the accent of righteous wrath . 
You 're a very ungrateful boy ! If ever I encouraged and cheered and sustained any one , I 'm sure I have done so to you . 
I appreciate your good intentions , and I don't wish to be uncivil . 
But your encouragement is superfluous . 
I can't work for you ! I call this ill humor , young man ! said Mr. Leavenworth , as if he had found the damning word . 
Oh , I 'm in an infernal humor ! Roderick answered . 
I say it by way of making our rupture complete , irretrievable ! Rowland had stood by in silence , but he now interfered . 
Listen to me , he said , laying his hand on Roderick's arm . 
You are standing on the edge of a gulf . 
If you suffer anything that has passed to interrupt your work on that figure , you take your plunge . 
It 's no matter that you don't like it you will do the wisest thing you ever did if you make that effort of will necessary for finishing it . 
Destroy the statue then , if you like , but make the effort . 
I speak the truth ! Roderick looked at him with eyes that still inexorableness made almost tender . 
You too ! he simply said . 
Rowland felt that he might as well attempt to squeeze water from a polished crystal as hope to move him . 
He turned away and walked into the adjoining room with a sense of sickening helplessness . 
In a few moments he came back and found that Mr. Leavenworth had departed presumably in a manner somewhat portentous . 
Roderick was sitting with his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands . 
Rowland made one more attempt . 
You decline to think of what I urge ? Absolutely . 
There's one more point that you shouldn't , for a month , go to Mrs. Light's . 
I go there this evening . 
That too is an utter folly . 
There are such things as necessary follies . 
You are not reflecting you are speaking in passion . 
Why then do you make me speak ? Rowland meditated a moment . 
Is it also necessary that you should lose the best friend you have ? Roderick looked up . 
That 's for you to settle ! His best friend clapped on his hat and strode away in a moment the door closed behind him . 
Rowland walked hard for nearly a couple of hours . 
He passed up the Corso , out of the Porta del Popolo and into the Villa Borghese , of which he made a complete circuit . 
The keenness of his irritation subsided , but it left him with an intolerable weight upon his heart . 
When dusk had fallen , he found himself near the lodging of his friend Madame Grandoni . 
He frequently paid her a visit during the hour which preceded dinner , and he now ascended her unillumined staircase and rang at her relaxed bell rope with an especial desire for diversion . 
He was told that , for the moment , she was occupied , but that if he would come in and wait , she would presently be with him . 
He had not sat musing in the firelight for ten minutes when he heard the jingle of the door bell and then a rustling and murmuring in the hall . 
The door of the little saloon opened , but before the visitor appeared he had recognized her voice . 
Christina Light swept forward , preceded by her poodle , and almost filling the narrow parlor with the train of her dress . 
She was colored here and there by the flicking firelight . 
They told me you were here , she said simply , as she took a seat . 
And yet you came in ? It is very brave , said Rowland . 
You are the brave one , when one thinks of it ! Where is the padrona ? Occupied for the moment . 
How soon ? I have already waited ten minutes I expect her from moment to moment . 
Meanwhile we are alone ? And she glanced into the dusky corners of the room . 
Unless Stenterello counts , said Rowland . 
Oh , he knows my secrets unfortunate brute ! She sat silent awhile , looking into the firelight . 
Then at last , glancing at Rowland , Come ! say something pleasant ! she exclaimed . 
I have been very happy to hear of your engagement . 
No , I don't mean that . 
I have heard that so often , only since breakfast , that it has lost all sense . 
I mean some of those unexpected , charming things that you said to me a month ago at Saint Cecilia's . 
I offended you , then , said Rowland . 
I was afraid I had . 
Ah , it occurred to you ? Why have n't I seen you since ? Really , I don't know . 
And he began to hesitate for an explanation . 
I have called , but you have never been at home . 
You were careful to choose the wrong times . 
You request me to take these suggestions to heart and to act upon them as promptly as possible . 
They are not particularly flattering to my vanity . 
Vanity , however , is a sin , and I listen submissively , with an immense desire to be just . 
If I have many faults I know it , in a general way , and I try on the whole to do my best . 
That 's the great point ! And then here 's a magnificent chance for humility . 
If there 's doubt in the matter , let the doubt count against one's self . 
That is what Saint Catherine did , and Saint Theresa , and all the others , and they are said to have had in consequence the most ineffable joys . 
Since then , the young girl went on , I have been waiting for the ineffable joys . 
They have n't yet turned up ! Pray listen to me ! Rowland urged . 
Nothing , nothing , nothing has come of it . 
I have passed the dreariest month of my life ! My dear Miss Light , you are a very terrible young lady ! cried Rowland . 
What do you mean by that ? A good many things . 
We 'll talk them over . 
But first , forgive me if I have offended you ! She looked at him a moment , hesitating , and then thrust her hands into her muff . 
Forgiveness is between equals , and you don't regard me as your equal . 
Really , I don't understand ! Christina rose and moved for a moment about the room . 
But you shall believe in me yet , murmured Christina , as she passed toward her hostess . 
Madame Grandoni turned tenderly to Christina . 
I must give you a very solemn kiss , my dear you are the heroine of the hour . 
You have really accepted him , eh ? So they say ! But you ought to know best . 
I don't know I don't care ! She stood with her hand in Madame Grandoni's , but looking askance at Rowland . 
That 's a pretty state of mind , said the old lady , for a young person who is going to become a princess . 
But I imagine you are expected at home . 
Prince Casamassima dines there , en famille . 
But I 'm not in his family , yet ! Do you know you are very wicked ? I have half a mind not to keep you . 
Christina dropped her eyes , reflectively . 
I beg you will let me stay , she said . 
If you wish to cure me of my wickedness you must be very patient and kind with me . 
It will be worth the trouble . 
You must show confidence in me . 
And she gave another glance at Rowland . 
Then suddenly , in a different tone , I don't know what I 'm saying ! she cried . 
This shrewd woman gave Rowland a significant nod , and a little shrug , over the young girl's beautiful bowed head , and then led Christina tenderly away into the adjoining room . 
Rowland vented his confusion in dealing a rap with his stick at the animal's unmelodious muzzle , and then rapidly left the house . 
He saw Mrs. Light's carriage waiting at the door , and heard afterwards that Christina went home to dinner . 
A couple of days later he went , for a fortnight , to Florence . 
He had twenty minds to leave Italy altogether and at Florence he could at least more freely decide upon his future movements . 
He felt profoundly , incurably disgusted . 
Reflective benevolence stood prudently aside , and for the time touched the source of his irritation with no softening side lights . 
It was the middle of March , and by the middle of March in Florence the spring is already warm and deep . 
He was sore at heart , and as the days went by the soreness deepened rather than healed . 
He felt as if he had a complaint against fortune good natured as he was , his good nature this time quite declined to let it pass . 
He was disappointed , and his disappointment had an angry spark in it . 
The sense of wasted time , of wasted hope and faith , kept him constant company . 
There were times when the beautiful things about him only exasperated his discontent . 
He went to the Pitti Palace , and Raphael's Madonna of the Chair seemed , in its soft serenity , to mock him with the suggestion of unattainable repose . 
He lingered on the bridges at sunset , and knew that the light was enchanting and the mountains divine , but there seemed to be something horribly invidious and unwelcome in the fact . 
He felt , in a word , like a man who has been cruelly defrauded and who wishes to have his revenge . 
Life owed him , he thought , a compensation , and he would be restless and resentful until he found it . 
One night he slept but half an hour he found his thoughts taking a turn which excited him portentously . 
He walked up and down his room half the night . 
It looked out on the Arno the noise of the river came in at the open window he felt like dressing and going down into the streets . 
Toward morning he flung himself into a chair though he was wide awake he was less excited . 
During the day he tried to banish it and forget it but it fascinated , haunted , at moments frightened him . 
He tried to amuse himself , paid visits , resorted to several rather violent devices for diverting his thoughts . 
If on the morrow he had committed a crime , the persons whom he had seen that day would have testified that he had talked strangely and had not seemed like himself . 
He felt certainly very unlike himself long afterwards , in retrospect , he used to reflect that during those days he had for a while been literally beside himself . 
His idea persisted it clung to him like a sturdy beggar . 
With all deference to your kindness , this was perhaps an obligation you would especially feel if you had a reversionary interest in something the victim was to leave behind him . 
One morning , in the midst of all this , Rowland walked heedlessly out of one of the city gates and found himself on the road to Fiesole . 
He rang at the little gateway a shabby , senile , red faced brother admitted him with almost maudlin friendliness . 
He had been in it before , and he was very fond of it . 
It was just noon when Rowland went in , and after roaming about awhile he flung himself in the sun on a mossy stone bench and pulled his hat over his eyes . 
The short shadows of the brown coated cypresses above him had grown very long , and yet he had not passed back through the convent . 
One of the monks , in his faded snuff colored robe , came wandering out into the garden , reading his greasy little breviary . 
Suddenly he came toward the bench on which Rowland had stretched himself , and paused a moment , attentively . 
Rowland was lingering there still he was sitting with his head in his hands and his elbows on his knees . 
He seemed not to have heard the sandaled tread of the good brother , but as the monk remained watching him , he at last looked up . 
It was not the ignoble old man who had admitted him , but a pale , gaunt personage , of a graver and more ascetic , and yet of a benignant , aspect . 
Rowland's face bore the traces of extreme trouble . 
The frate kept his finger in his little book , and folded his arms picturesquely across his breast . 
It can hardly be determined whether his attitude , as he bent his sympathetic Italian eye upon Rowland , was a happy accident or the result of an exquisite spiritual discernment . 
To Rowland , at any rate , under the emotion of that moment , it seemed blessedly opportune . 
He rose and approached the monk , and laid his hand on his arm . 
My brother , he said , did you ever see the Devil ? The frate gazed , gravely , and crossed himself . 
Heaven forbid ! He was here , Rowland went on , here in this lovely garden , as he was once in Paradise , half an hour ago . 
But have no fear I drove him out . 
And Rowland stooped and picked up his hat , which had rolled away into a bed of cyclamen , in vague symbolism of an actual physical tussle . 
You have been tempted , my brother ? asked the friar , tenderly . 
Hideously ! And you have resisted and conquered ! I believe I have conquered . 
The blessed Saint Francis be praised ! It is well done . 
If you like , we will offer a mass for you . 
I am not a Catholic , said Rowland . 
The frate smiled with dignity . 
That is a reason the more . 
But it 's for you , then , to choose . 
Shake hands with me , Rowland added that will do as well and suffer me , as I go out , to stop a moment in your chapel . 
They shook hands and separated . 
The frate crossed himself , opened his book , and wandered away , in relief against the western sky . 
Rowland passed back into the convent , and paused long enough in the chapel to look for the alms box . 
The next day he returned to Rome , and the day afterwards he went in search of Roderick . 
He found him on the Pincian with his back turned to the crowd , looking at the sunset . 
I went to Florence , Rowland said , and I thought of going farther but I came back on purpose to give you another piece of advice . 
Once more , you refuse to leave Rome ? Never ! said Roderick . 
For my mother ? For your mother and for Miss Garland . 
Roderick still stared and then , slowly and faintly , his face flushed . 
For Mary Garland for my mother ? he repeated . 
Send for them ? Tell me this I have often wondered , but till now I have forborne to ask . 
You are still engaged to Miss Garland ? Roderick frowned darkly , but assented . 
It would give you pleasure , then , to see her ? Roderick turned away and for some moments answered nothing . 
Pleasure ! he said at last , huskily . 
I regard you as a sick man , Rowland continued . 
In such a case Miss Garland would say that her place was at your side . 
Roderick looked at him some time askance , mistrustfully . 
Is this a deep laid snare ? he asked slowly . 
Rowland had come back with all his patience rekindled , but these words gave it an almost fatal chill . 
Heaven forgive you ! he cried bitterly . 
My idea has been simply this . 
Try , in decency , to understand it . 
I have tried to befriend you , to help you , to inspire you with confidence , and I have failed . 
I took you from the hands of your mother and your betrothed , and it seemed to me my duty to restore you to their hands . 
That 's all I have to say . 
He was going , but Roderick forcibly detained him . 
It would have been but a rough way of expressing it to say that one could never know how Roderick would take a thing . 
It had happened more than once that when hit hard , deservedly , he had received the blow with touching gentleness . 
On the other hand , he had often resented the softest taps . 
The secondary effect of Rowland's present admonition seemed reassuring . 
I beg you to wait , he said , to forgive that shabby speech , and to let me reflect . 
And he walked up and down awhile , reflecting . 
At last he stopped , with a look in his face that Rowland had not seen all winter . 
It was a strikingly beautiful look . 
How strange it is , he said , that the simplest devices are the last that occur to one ! And he broke into a light laugh . 
To see Mary Garland is just what I want . 
And my mother my mother can't hurt me now . 
You will write , then ? I will telegraph . 
They must come , at whatever cost . 
Striker can arrange it all for them . 
They would arrive , therefore , in less than a month . 
Rowland passed this month of expectation in no very serene frame of mind . 
They had scraped together their scanty funds and embarked , at twenty four hours' notice , upon the dreadful sea , to journey tremulously to shores darkened by the shadow of deeper alarms . 
He could only promise himself to be their devoted friend and servant . 
Preoccupied as he was , he was able to observe that expectation , with Roderick , took a form which seemed singular even among his characteristic singularities . 
If redemption Roderick seemed to reason was to arrive with his mother and his affianced bride , these last moments of error should be doubly erratic . 
He did nothing but inaction , with him , took on an unwonted air of gentle gayety . 
He laughed and whistled and went often to Mrs. Light's though Rowland knew not in what fashion present circumstances had modified his relations with Christina . 
The month ebbed away and Rowland daily expected to hear from Roderick that he had gone to Leghorn to meet the ship . 
A cab was standing in the street , but as it was a couple of doors off he hardly heeded it . 
While he did so he heard another footstep behind him , and turning round found that Roderick in person had just overtaken him . 
At the same moment a woman's figure advanced from within , into the light of the street lamp , and a face , half startled , glanced at him out of the darkness . 
He gave a cry it was the face of Mary Garland . 
Her glance flew past him to Roderick , and in a second a startled exclamation broke from her own lips . 
It made Rowland turn again . 
Roderick stood there , pale , apparently trying to speak , but saying nothing . 
His lips were parted and he was wavering slightly with a strange movement the movement of a man who has drunk too much . 
Then Rowland's eyes met Miss Garland's again , and her own , which had rested a moment on Roderick's , were formidable ! CHAPTER IX . 
Mary Garland How it befell that Roderick had failed to be in Leghorn on his mother's arrival never clearly transpired for he undertook to give no elaborate explanation of his fault . 
no apology for having left her to come in search of him . 
, he would have had a day or two of waiting at Leghorn . 
Rowland's silent inference was that Christina Light had beguiled him into letting the time slip , and it was accompanied with a silent inquiry whether she had done so unconsciously or maliciously . 
He had told her , presumably , that his mother and his cousin were about to arrive and it was pertinent to remember hereupon that she was a young lady of mysterious impulses . 
Rowland heard in due time the story of the adventures of the two ladies from Northampton . 
But Mrs. Hudson's maternal heart had taken the alarm . 
travel , they had hurried in trembling eagerness to Rome . 
They had arrived late in the evening , and , knowing nothing of inns , had got into a cab and proceeded to Roderick's lodging . 
At the door , poor Mrs. Hudson's frightened anxiety had overcome her , and she had sat quaking and crying in the vehicle , too weak to move . 
These things Rowland learned during a visit he paid the two ladies the evening after their arrival . 
Mrs. Hudson spoke of them at great length and with an air of clinging confidence in Rowland which told him how faithfully time had served him , in her imagination . 
But her fright was over , though she was still catching her breath a little , like a person dragged ashore out of waters uncomfortably deep . 
She was excessively bewildered and confused , and seemed more than ever to demand a tender handling from her friends . 
Before Miss Garland , Rowland was distinctly conscious that he trembled . 
He wondered extremely what was going on in her mind what was her silent commentary on the incidents of the night before . 
He wondered all the more , because he immediately perceived that she was greatly changed since their parting , and that the change was by no means for the worse . 
She was older , easier , more free , more like a young woman who went sometimes into company . 
She trusted him now , absolutely whether or no she liked him , she believed he was solid . 
He felt that during the coming weeks he would need to be solid . 
Mrs. Hudson was at one of the smaller hotels , and her sitting room was frugally lighted by a couple of candles . 
Rowland made the most of this dim illumination to try to detect the afterglow of that frightened flash from Miss Garland's eyes the night before . 
It had been but a flash , for what provoked it had instantly vanished . 
Rowland had murmured a rapturous blessing on Roderick's head , as he perceived him instantly apprehend the situation . 
If he had been drinking , its gravity sobered him on the spot in a single moment he collected his wits . 
Rowland had recommended a hotel close at hand , and had then discreetly withdrawn . 
Roderick was at this time doing his part superbly , and Miss Garland's brow was serene . 
It was serene now , twenty four hours later but nevertheless , her alarm had lasted an appreciable moment . 
What had become of it ? It had dropped down deep into her memory , and it was lying there for the present in the shade . 
But with another week , Rowland said to himself , it would leap erect again the lightest friction would strike a spark from it . 
In vulgar parlance , he stood uneasy in his shoes . 
He felt like walking on tiptoe , not to arouse the sleeping shadows . 
He felt , indeed , almost like saying that they might have their own way later , if they would only allow to these first few days the clear light of ardent contemplation . 
For Rowland at last was ardent , and all the bells within his soul were ringing bravely in jubilee . 
Roderick , he learned , had been the whole day with his mother , and had evidently responded to her purest trust . 
He appeared to her appealing eyes still unspotted by the world . 
That is what it is , thought Rowland , to be gifted , to escape not only the superficial , but the intrinsic penalties of misconduct . 
The two ladies had spent the day within doors , resting from the fatigues of travel . 
Miss Garland , Rowland suspected , was not so fatigued as she suffered it to be assumed . 
But the sense of novelty was evidently strong upon Miss Garland , and the light of expectation was in her eye . 
Rowland felt , in all this , that her intelligence , here , would have a great unfolding . 
He wished immensely he might have a share in it he wished he might show her Rome . 
That , of course , would be Roderick's office . 
But he promised himself at least to take advantage of off hours . 
It behooves you to appreciate your good fortune , he said to her . 
It is but right to remind you of it , so that you make the most of opportunity and do not accuse yourself , later , of having wasted the precious season . 
Miss Garland looked at him , smiling intently , and went to the window again . 
I expect to enjoy it , she said . 
Don't be afraid I am not wasteful . 
I am afraid we are not qualified , you know , said Mrs. Hudson . 
We are told that you must know so much , that you must have read so many books . 
Our taste has not been cultivated . 
I believe I have my medal somewhere in a drawer , now , but I have forgotten all about the kings . 
But after Roderick came to Italy we tried to learn something about it . 
Last winter Mary used to read Corinne to me in the evenings , and in the mornings she used to read another book , to herself . 
What was it , Mary , that book that was so long , you know , in fifteen volumes ? It was Sismondi's Italian Republics , said Mary , simply . 
Rowland could not help laughing whereupon Mary blushed . 
Did you finish it ? he asked . 
Yes , and began another a shorter one Roscoe's Leo the Tenth . 
Did you find them interesting ? Oh yes . 
Do you like history ? Some of it . 
That 's a woman's answer ! And do you like art ? She paused a moment . 
I have never seen it ! You have great advantages , now , my dear , with Roderick and Mr. Mallet , said Mrs. Hudson . 
I am sure no young lady ever had such advantages . 
You come straight to the highest authorities . 
Roderick , I suppose , will show you the practice of art , and Mr. Mallet , perhaps , if he will be so good , will show you the theory . 
As an artist's wife , you ought to know something about it . 
One learns a good deal about it , here , by simply living , said Rowland by going and coming about one's daily avocations . 
Dear , dear , how wonderful that we should be here in the midst of it ! murmured Mrs. Hudson . 
To think of art being out there in the streets ! We did n't see much of it last evening , as we drove from the depot . 
Roderick came in at this moment and kissed his mother , and then went over and joined Miss Garland . 
Rowland sat with Mrs. Hudson , who evidently had a word which she deemed of some value for his private ear . 
She followed Roderick with intensely earnest eyes . 
I often say so to Mary . 
Rowland wore , in response to this speech , a rather haggard brow . 
He could only murmur that he was glad she found Roderick looking well . 
He had determined to say nothing , but simply to wait in silence for Roderick to find effective inspiration in those confidently expectant eyes . 
It was to be supposed that he was seeking for it now he remained sometime at the window with his cousin . 
She presently followed him , and for an instant Rowland observed her watching him as if she thought him strange . 
And be it hereby known to Mallet that we count upon him to turn the wheel . 
I will do as you please , my son , said Mrs. Hudson . 
So long as I have you with me I don't care where I go . 
We must not take up too much of Mr. Mallet's time . 
His time is inexhaustible he has nothing under the sun to do . 
Let us take things in order , said Rowland . 
We will go first to Saint Peter's . 
Miss Garland , I hope you are impatient to see Saint Peter's . 
I would like to go first to Roderick's studio , said Miss Garland . 
It 's a very nasty place , said Roderick . 
At your pleasure ! Yes , we must see your beautiful things before we can look contentedly at anything else , said Mrs. Hudson . 
I have no beautiful things , said Roderick . 
No , it 's your face , said Roderick . 
What has happened to it these two years ? It has changed its expression . 
Your mother has prayed a great deal , said Miss Garland , simply . 
I did n't suppose , of course , it was from doing anything bad ! It makes you a very good face very interesting , very solemn . 
It has very fine lines in it something might be done with it . 
And Rowland held one of the candles near the poor lady's head . 
She was covered with confusion . 
My son , my son , she said with dignity , I don't understand you . 
In a flash all his old alacrity had come to him . 
I suppose a man may admire his own mother ! he cried . 
If you please , madame , you 'll sit to me for that head . 
I see it , I see it ! I will make something that a queen can't get done for her . 
Rowland respectfully urged her to assent he saw Roderick was in the vein and would probably do something eminently original . 
She gave her promise , at last , after many soft , inarticulate protests and a frightened petition that she might be allowed to keep her knitting . 
Rowland returned the next day , with plenty of zeal for the part Roderick had assigned to him . 
It had been arranged that they should go to Saint Peter's . 
Roderick was in high good humor , and , in the carriage , was watching his mother with a fine mixture of filial and professional tenderness . 
Rowland sat opposite to Miss Garland . 
She was totally oblivious of her companions from the moment the carriage left the hotel , she sat gazing , wide eyed and absorbed , at the objects about them . 
If Rowland had felt disposed he might have made a joke of her intense seriousness . 
From time to time he told her the name of a place or a building , and she nodded , without looking at him . 
Inside the church , Roderick gave his arm to his mother , and Rowland constituted himself the especial guide of Miss Garland . 
He walked with her slowly everywhere , and made the entire circuit , telling her all he knew of the history of the building . 
This was a great deal , but she listened attentively , keeping her eyes fixed on the dome . 
To Rowland himself it had never seemed so radiantly sublime as at these moments he felt almost as if he had contrived it himself and had a right to be proud of it . 
He left Miss Garland a while on the steps of the choir , where she had seated herself to rest , and went to join their companions . 
Mrs. Hudson was watching a great circle of tattered contadini , who were kneeling before the image of Saint Peter . 
The fashion of their tatters fascinated her she stood gazing at them in a sort of terrified pity , and could not be induced to look at anything else . 
Rowland went back to Miss Garland and sat down beside her . 
Well , what do you think of Europe ? he asked , smiling . 
I think it 's horrible ! she said abruptly . 
Horrible ? I feel so strangely I could almost cry . 
Here in a single hour , everything is changed . 
It is as if a wall in my mind had been knocked down at a stroke . 
Before me lies an immense new world , and it makes the old one , the poor little narrow , familiar one I have always known , seem pitiful . 
But you did n't come to Rome to keep your eyes fastened on that narrow little world . 
Forget it , turn your back on it , and enjoy all this . 
To enjoy , as you say , as these things demand of one to enjoy them , is to break with one's past . 
And breaking is a pain ! Don't mind the pain , and it will cease to trouble you . 
Enjoy , enjoy it is your duty . 
Yours especially ! Why mine especially ? Because I am very sure that you have a mind capable of doing the most liberal justice to everything interesting and beautiful . 
You don't know , said Miss Garland , simply . 
In that matter one feels . 
I really think that I know better than you . 
I don't want to seem patronizing , but I suspect that your mind is susceptible of a great development . 
Give it the best company , trust it , let it go ! She looked away from him for some moments , down the gorgeous vista of the great church . 
But what you say , she said at last , means change ! Change for the better ! cried Rowland . 
How can one tell ? As one stands , one knows the worst . 
It seems to me very frightful to develop , she added , with her complete smile . 
Is this what you call life ? she asked . 
What do you mean by 'this' ? Saint Peter's all this splendor , all Rome pictures , ruins , statues , beggars , monks . 
It is not all of it , but it is a large part of it . 
All these things are impregnated with life they are the fruits of an old and complex civilization . 
An old and complex civilization I am afraid I don't like that . 
Don't conclude on that point just yet . 
Wait till you have tested it . 
While you wait , you will see an immense number of very beautiful things things that you are made to understand . 
They won't leave you as they found you then you can judge . 
Don't tell me I know nothing about your understanding . 
I have a right to assume it . 
Miss Garland gazed awhile aloft in the dome . 
I am not sure I understand that , she said . 
I hope , at least , that at a cursory glance it pleases you , said Rowland . 
You need n't be afraid to tell the truth . 
What strikes some people is that it is so remarkably small . 
Oh , it's large enough it's very wonderful . 
There are things in Rome , then , she added in a moment , turning and looking at him , that are very , very beautiful ? Lots of them . 
Some of the most beautiful things in the world ? Unquestionably . 
What are they ? which things have most beauty ? That is according to taste . 
I should say the statues . 
But to know them is a thing for one's leisure . 
The more time you spend among them , the more you care for them . 
After a moment's hesitation he went on Why should you grudge time ? It 's all in your way , since you are to be an artist's wife . 
I have thought of that , she said . 
It may be that I shall always live here , among the most beautiful things in the world ! Very possibly ! I should like to see you ten years hence . 
I dare say I shall seem greatly altered . 
But I am sure of one thing . 
Of what ? That for the most part I shall be quite the same . 
I ask nothing better than to believe the fine things you say about my understanding , but even if they are true , it won't matter . 
I shall be what I was made , what I am now a young woman from the country ! The fruit of a civilization not old and complex , but new and simple . 
I am delighted to hear it that 's an excellent foundation . 
Perhaps , if you show me anything more , you will not always think so kindly of it . 
I should like vastly to say something to you Be what you are , be what you choose but do , sometimes , as I tell you . 
If Rowland was not frightened , neither , perhaps , was Miss Garland but she seemed at least slightly disturbed . 
She proposed that they should join their companions . 
Mrs. Hudson spoke under her breath she could not be accused of the want of reverence sometimes attributed to Protestants in the great Catholic temples . 
Mary , dear , she whispered , suppose we had to kiss that dreadful brass toe . 
If I could only have kept our door knocker , at Northampton , as bright as that ! I think it's so heathenish but Roderick says he thinks it 's sublime . 
Roderick had evidently grown a trifle perverse . 
It 's sublimer than anything that your religion asks you to do ! he exclaimed . 
Surely our religion sometimes gives us very difficult duties , said Miss Garland . 
The duty of sitting in a whitewashed meeting house and listening to a nasal Puritan ! I admit that 's difficult . 
But it 's not sublime . 
I am speaking of ceremonies , of forms . 
It is in my line , you know , to make much of forms . 
I think this is a very beautiful one . 
Could n't you do it ? he demanded , looking at his cousin . 
She looked back at him intently and then shook her head . 
He turned away , crossing himself , and Mrs. Hudson gave a little shudder of horror . 
After that , she murmured , I suppose he thinks he is as good as any one ! And here is another . 
Oh , what a beautiful person ! A young lady had approached the sacred effigy , after having wandered away from a group of companions . 
She kissed the brazen toe , touched it with her forehead , and turned round , facing our friends . 
Rowland then recognized Christina Light . 
He was stupefied had she suddenly embraced the Catholic faith ? It was but a few weeks before that she had treated him to a passionate profession of indifference . 
At first she did not perceive them . 
Mary Garland had been gazing at her . 
You told me , she said gently , to Rowland , that Rome contained some of the most beautiful things in the world . 
This surely is one of them ! At this moment Christina's eye met Rowland's and before giving him any sign of recognition she glanced rapidly at his companions . 
She saw Roderick , but she gave him no bow she looked at Mrs. Hudson , she looked at Mary Garland . 
At Mary Garland she looked fixedly , piercingly , from head to foot , as the slow pace at which she was advancing made possible . 
Then suddenly , as if she had perceived Roderick for the first time , she gave him a charming nod , a radiant smile . 
In a moment he was at her side . 
She stopped , and he stood talking to her she continued to look at Miss Garland . 
Why , Roderick knows her ! cried Mrs. Hudson , in an awe struck whisper . 
I supposed she was some great princess . 
She is almost ! said Rowland . 
She is the most beautiful girl in Europe , and Roderick has made her bust . 
Her bust ? Dear , dear ! murmured Mrs. Hudson , vaguely shocked . 
What a strange bonnet ! She has very strange eyes , said Mary , and turned away . 
The two ladies , with Rowland , began to descend toward the door of the church . 
On their way they passed Mrs. Light , the Cavaliere , and the poodle , and Rowland informed his companions of the relation in which these personages stood to Roderick's young lady . 
Think of it , Mary ! said Mrs. Hudson . 
What splendid people he must know ! No wonder he found Northampton dull ! I like the poor little old gentleman , said Mary . 
Why do you call him poor ? Rowland asked , struck with the observation . 
He seems so ! she answered simply . 
As they were reaching the door they were overtaken by Roderick , whose interview with Miss Light had perceptibly brightened his eye . 
So you are acquainted with princesses ! said his mother softly , as they passed into the portico . 
Miss Light is not a princess ! said Roderick , curtly . 
But Mr. Mallet says so , urged Mrs. Hudson , rather disappointed . 
I meant that she was going to be ! said Rowland . 
It 's by no means certain that she is even going to be ! Roderick answered . 
If Roderick's idea really held him , it was an immense pity that his inspiration should be wasted inspiration , in these days , had become too precious a commodity . 
It was arranged therefore that , for the present , during the mornings , Mrs. Hudson should place herself at her son's service . 
It became natural in this way that , Miss Garland having her mornings free , Rowland should propose to be the younger lady's guide in whatever explorations she might be disposed to make . 
She said she knew nothing about it , but she had a great curiosity , and would be glad to see anything that he would show her . 
However she felt , he was certain he would know little about it . 
They wore the same delightful aspect through the lovely month of May , and the ineffable charm of Rome at that period seemed but the radiant sympathy of nature with his happy opportunity . 
The weather was divine each particular morning , as he walked from his lodging to Mrs. Hudson's modest inn , seemed to have a blessing upon it . 
She always had a smile , she was always eager , alert , responsive . 
Her enjoyment was not especially demonstrative , but it was curiously diligent . 
She said many things which he thought very profound that is , if they really had the fine intention he suspected . 
This point he usually tried to ascertain but he was obliged to proceed cautiously , for in her mistrustful shyness it seemed to her that cross examination must necessarily be ironical . 
She wished to know just where she was going what she would gain or lose . 
She wished to be very sure , to take only the best , knowing it to be the best . 
There was something exquisite in this labor of pious self adornment , and Rowland helped it , though its fruits were not for him . 
Capacity was there , it could be freely trusted observation would have but to sow its generous seed . 
A superior woman the idea had harsh associations , but he watched it imaging itself in the vagueness of the future with a kind of hopeless confidence . 
They went a great deal to Saint Peter's , for which Rowland had an exceeding affection , a large measure of which he succeeded in infusing into his companion . 
Here Rowland had with his companion a great deal of talk , and found himself expounding aesthetics a perte de vue . 
He discovered that she made notes of her likes and dislikes in a new looking little memorandum book , and he wondered to what extent she reported his own discourse . 
They went sometimes into the chambers painted by Raphael , and of course paid their respects to the Sistine Chapel but Mary's evident preference was to linger among the statues . 
I am so glad , she said , that Roderick is a sculptor and not a painter . 
The allusion resided chiefly in the extreme earnestness with which the words were uttered . 
Rowland immediately asked her the reason of her gladness . 
It 's not that painting is not fine , she said , but that sculpture is finer . 
Rowland tried at times to make her talk about herself , but in this she had little skill . 
He told her his desire and what suggested it . 
It appears , then , she said , that , after all , one can grow at home ! Unquestionably , if one has a motive . 
Your growth , then , was unconscious ? You did not watch yourself and water your roots ? She paid no heed to his question . 
I am willing to grant , she said , that Europe is more delightful than I supposed and I don't think that , mentally , I had been stingy . 
But you must admit that America is better than you have supposed . 
I have not a fault to find with the country which produced you ! Rowland thought he might risk this , smiling . 
And yet you want me to change to assimilate Europe , I suppose you would call it . 
I have felt that desire only on general principles . 
That sounds unkind , and I admit there is a cold intellectual curiosity in it . 
The charm is broken the thread is snapped ! I prefer to remain here . 
Invariably , when he was inclined to make of something they were talking of a direct application to herself , she wholly failed to assist him she made no response . 
Whereupon , once , with a spark of ardent irritation , he told her she was very secretive . 
At this she colored a little , and he said that in default of any larger confidence it would at least be a satisfaction to make her confess to that charge . 
But even this satisfaction she denied him , and his only revenge was in making , two or three times afterward , a softly ironical allusion to her slyness . 
He told her that she was what is called in French a sournoise . 
Very good , she answered , almost indifferently , and now please tell me again I have forgotten it what you said an 'architrave' was . 
You are always snatching at information , he said you will never consent to have any disinterested conversation . 
She frowned a little , as she always did when he arrested their talk upon something personal . 
But this time she assented , and said that she knew she was eager for facts . 
One must make hay while the sun shines , she added . 
I must lay up a store of learning against dark days . 
Somehow , my imagination refuses to compass the idea that I may be in Rome indefinitely . 
It would have been hard to say why this point interested him , for he had not the slightest real apprehension that she was dry or pedantic . 
The simple human truth was , the poor fellow was jealous of science . 
In preaching science to her , he had over estimated his powers of self effacement . 
Suddenly , sinking science for the moment , she looked at him very frankly and began to frown . 
At the same time she let the Murray slide down to the ground , and he was so charmed with this circumstance that he made no movement to pick it up . 
You are singularly inconsistent , Mr. Mallet , she said . 
How ? That first day that we were in Saint Peter's you said things that inspired me . 
You bade me plunge into all this . 
Distinctly , then , said Rowland , I strike you as inconsistent ? That is the word . 
Then I have played my part very ill . 
Your part ? What is your part supposed to have been ? He hesitated a moment . 
That of usefulness , pure and simple . 
I don't understand you ! she said and picking up her Murray , she fairly buried herself in it . 
That evening he said something to her which necessarily increased her perplexity , though it was not uttered with such an intention . 
Do you remember , he asked , my begging you , the other day , to do occasionally as I told you ? It seemed to me you tacitly consented . 
I have never yet really presumed on your consent . 
But now I would like you to do this whenever you catch me in the act of what you call inconsistency , ask me the meaning of some architectural term . 
Nothing in Rome is more interesting , and no locality has such a confusion of picturesque charms . 
She had begun by saying that it was coming over her , after all , that Rome was a ponderously sad place . 
The sirocco was gently blowing , the air was heavy , she was tired , she looked a little pale . 
Everything , she said , seems to say that all things are vanity . 
If one is doing something , I suppose one feels a certain strength within one to contradict it . 
But if one is idle , surely it is depressing to live , year after year , among the ashes of things that once were mighty . 
If I were to remain here I should either become permanently 'low , as they say , or I would take refuge in some dogged daily work . 
What work ? I would open a school for those beautiful little beggars though I am sadly afraid I should never bring myself to scold them . 
I am idle , said Rowland , and yet I have kept up a certain spirit . 
I don't call you idle , she answered with emphasis . 
It is very good of you . 
Do you remember our talking about that in Northampton ? During that picnic ? Perfectly . 
Has your coming abroad succeeded , for yourself , as well as you hoped ? I think I may say that it has turned out as well as I expected . 
Are you happy ? Don't I look so ? So it seems to me . 
But and she hesitated a moment I imagine you look happy whether you are so or not . 
I 'm like that ancient comic mask that we saw just now in yonder excavated fresco I am made to grin . 
Shall you come back here next winter ? Very probably . 
Are you settled here forever ? 'Forever' is a long time . 
I live only from year to year . 
Shall you never marry ? Rowland gave a laugh . 
'Forever' 'never ! You handle large ideas . 
I have not taken a vow of celibacy . 
Would n't you like to marry ? I should like it immensely . 
To this she made no rejoinder but presently she asked , Why don't you write a book ? Rowland laughed , this time more freely . 
A book ! What book should I write ? A history something about art or antiquities . 
I have neither the learning nor the talent . 
She made no attempt to contradict him she simply said she had supposed otherwise . 
You ought , at any rate , she continued in a moment , to do something for yourself . 
For myself ? I should have supposed that if ever a man seemed to live for himself I don't know how it seems , she interrupted , to careless observers . 
But we know we know that you have lived a great deal for us . 
Her voice trembled slightly , and she brought out the last words with a little jerk . 
She went on in a way which confirmed these reflections , speaking with due solemnity . 
You ought to be made to know very well what we all feel . 
Mrs. Hudson tells me that she has told you what she feels . 
Of course Roderick has expressed himself . 
I have been wanting to thank you too I do , from my heart . 
Rowland made no answer his face at this moment resembled the tragic mask much more than the comic . 
But Miss Garland was not looking at him she had taken up her Murray again . 
In the afternoon she usually drove with Mrs. Hudson , but Rowland frequently saw her again in the evening . 
Rowland saw him little at other times , and for three weeks no observations passed between them on the subject of Mrs. Hudson's advent . 
To Rowland's vision , as the weeks elapsed , the benefits to proceed from the presence of the two ladies remained shrouded in mystery . 
, but he conformed passively at least to the tranquil temper of the two women , and made no harsh comments nor sombre allusions . 
Rowland wondered whether he had , after all , done his friend injustice in denying him the sentiment of duty . 
He refused invitations , to Rowland's knowledge , in order to dine at the jejune little table d'hote wherever his spirit might be , he was present in the flesh with religious constancy . 
Mrs. Hudson's felicity betrayed itself in a remarkable tendency to finish her sentences and wear her best black silk gown . 
She always sat at the table , near the candles , with a piece of needle work . 
This was the attitude in which Rowland had first seen her , and he thought , now that he had seen her in several others , it was not the least becoming . 
CHAPTER X. The Cavaliere There befell at last a couple of days during which Rowland was unable to go to the hotel . 
Late in the evening of the second one Roderick came into his room . 
In a few moments he announced that he had finished the bust of his mother . 
And it 's magnificent ! he declared . 
It 's one of the best things I have done . 
I believe it , said Rowland . 
Never again talk to me about your inspiration being dead . 
Why not ? This may be its last kick ! I feel very tired . 
But it 's a masterpiece , though I do say it . 
They tell us we owe so much to our parents . 
Well , I 've paid the filial debt handsomely ! He walked up and down the room a few moments , with the purpose of his visit evidently still undischarged . 
There 's one thing more I want to say , he presently resumed . 
I feel as if I ought to tell you ! He stopped before Rowland with his head high and his brilliant glance unclouded . 
Your invention is a failure ! My invention ? Rowland repeated . 
Bringing out my mother and Mary . 
A failure ? It 's no use ! They don't help me . 
Rowland had fancied that Roderick had no more surprises for him but he was now staring at him , wide eyed . 
They bore me ! Roderick went on . 
Oh , oh ! cried Rowland . 
Listen , listen ! said Roderick with perfect gentleness . 
I am not complaining of them I am simply stating a fact . 
I am very sorry for them I am greatly disappointed . 
Have you given them a fair trial ? Should n't you say so ? It seems to me I have behaved beautifully . 
You have done very well I have been building great hopes on it . 
I have done too well , then . 
After the first forty eight hours my own hopes collapsed . 
I shall want to poison them . 
Miserable boy ! cried Rowland . 
Roderick shrugged his shoulders and let his hands drop at his sides . 
She adores me ! That 's my relation . 
Have you broken your engagement ? Broken it ? You can't break a ray of moonshine . 
Have you absolutely no affection for her ? Roderick placed his hand on his heart and held it there a moment . 
Dead dead dead ! he said at last . 
I wonder , Rowland asked presently , if you begin to comprehend the beauty of Miss Garland's character . 
She is a person of the highest merit . 
Roderick gave a quickened glance . 
Do you know , so well ? I admire her immeasurably . 
Roderick smiled , we may almost say sympathetically . 
You have not wasted time . 
Rowland's thoughts were crowding upon him fast . 
Rowland tried , mentally , to summon presumption to his aid but whether it came or not , it found conscience there before it . 
Conscience had only three words , but they were cogent . 
For her sake for her sake , it dumbly murmured , and Rowland resumed his argument . 
I don't know what I would n't do , he said , rather than that Miss Garland should suffer . 
There is one thing to be said , Roderick answered reflectively . 
Well , then , if she 's strong , believe that with a longer chance , a better chance , she will still regain your affection . 
Do you know what you ask ? cried Roderick . 
Make love to a girl I hate ? You hate ? As her lover , I should hate her ! Listen to me ! said Rowland with vehemence . 
Go your way , then ! Say all this to her , not to me ! To her ? I am afraid of her I want you to help me . 
My dear Roderick , said Rowland with an eloquent smile , I can help you no more ! Roderick frowned , hesitated a moment , and then took his hat . 
Oh , well , he said , I am not so afraid of her as all that ! And he turned , as if to depart . 
Stop ! cried Rowland , as he laid his hand on the door . 
Roderick paused and stood waiting , with his irritated brow . 
Come back sit down there and listen to me . 
Of anything you were to say in your present state of mind you would live most bitterly to repent . 
You don't know what you really think you don't know what you really feel . 
You don't know your own mind you don't do justice to Miss Garland . 
All this is impossible here , under these circumstances . 
You 're blind , you 're deaf , you 're under a spell . 
To break it , you must leave Rome . 
Leave Rome ! Rome was never so dear to me . 
That 's not of the smallest consequence . 
And where shall I go ? Go to some place where you may be alone with your mother and Miss Garland . 
Alone ? You will not come ? Oh , if you desire it , I will come . 
Roderick inclining his head a little , looked at his friend askance . 
I don't understand you , he said I wish you liked Miss Garland either a little less , or a little more . 
Rowland felt himself coloring , but he paid no heed to Roderick's speech . 
You ask me to help you , he went on . 
On these present conditions I can do nothing . 
I must do without your help then ! Your conditions are impossible . 
I will leave Rome at the time I have always intended at the end of June . 
My rooms and my mother's are taken till then all my arrangements are made accordingly . 
Then , I will depart not before . 
You are not frank , said Rowland . 
Your real reason for staying has nothing to do with your rooms . 
Roderick's face betrayed neither embarrassment nor resentment . 
If I 'm not frank , it 's for the first time in my life . 
Since you know so much about my real reason , let me hear it ! No , stop ! he suddenly added , I won't trouble you . 
You are right , I have a motive . 
On the twenty fourth of June Miss Light is to be married . 
I take an immense interest in all that concerns her , and I wish to be present at her wedding . 
But you said the other day at Saint Peter's that it was by no means certain her marriage would take place . 
Apparently I was wrong the invitations , I am told , are going out . 
Rowland felt that it would be utterly vain to remonstrate , and that the only thing for him was to make the best terms possible . 
Do what you can ! His tone and his hand shake seemed to constitute a promise , and upon this they parted . 
Roderick's bust of his mother , whether or no it was a discharge of what he called the filial debt , was at least a most admirable production . 
Rowland , at the time it was finished , met Gloriani one evening , and this unscrupulous genius immediately began to ask questions about it . 
I am told our high flying friend has come down , he said . 
He has been doing a queer little old woman . 
A queer little old woman ! Rowland exclaimed . 
My dear sir , she is Hudson's mother . 
All the more reason for her being queer ! It is a bust for terra cotta , eh ? By no means it is for marble . 
Go and see it , and judge for yourself , said Rowland . 
No , I see I shall be disappointed . 
It 's quite the other thing , the sort of thing they put into the campo santos . 
He consented , and on entering they found the young master . 
Roderick's demeanor to Gloriani was never conciliatory , and on this occasion supreme indifference was apparently all he had to offer . 
But Gloriani , like a genuine connoisseur , cared nothing for his manners he cared only for his skill . 
In the bust of Mrs. Hudson there was something almost touching it was an exquisite example of a ruling sense of beauty . 
It was perfectly unflattered , and yet admirably tender it was the poetry of fidelity . 
Gloriani stood looking at it a long time most intently . 
Roderick wandered away into the neighboring room . 
I give it up ! said the sculptor at last . 
But you like it ? said Rowland . 
Like it ? It 's a pearl of pearls . 
Tell me this , he added is he very fond of his mother is he a very good son ? And he gave Rowland a sharp look . 
Why , she adores him , said Rowland , smiling . 
That 's not an answer ! But it 's none of my business . 
It 's a pity you are strong enough not to care about me at all . 
Not at all , said Roderick curtly . 
I am very weak ! I told you last year that you would n't keep it up . 
I was a great ass . 
You will ! I beg your pardon I won't ! retorted Roderick . 
Roderick stood looking at him for a moment with a strange hardness in his face . 
It flushed slowly , and two glittering , angry tears filled his eyes . 
It was the first time Rowland had ever seen them there he saw them but once again . 
Poor Gloriani , he was sure , had never in his life spoken with less of irony but to Roderick there was evidently a sense of mockery in his profession of faith . 
He turned away with a muttered , passionate imprecation . 
Gloriani was accustomed to deal with complex problems , but this time he was hopelessly puzzled . 
What 's the matter with him ? he asked , simply . 
Rowland gave a sad smile , and touched his forehead . 
Gloriani sent another parting , lingering look at the bust of Mrs. Hudson . 
Well , it 's deuced perfect , it 's deuced simple I do believe in him ! he said . 
But I 'm glad I 'm not a genius . 
It makes , he added with a laugh , as he looked for Roderick to wave him good by , and saw his back still turned , it makes a more sociable studio . 
Rowland had purchased , as he supposed , temporary tranquillity for Mary Garland but his own humor in these days was not especially peaceful . 
He was attempting , in a certain sense , to lead the ideal life , and he found it , at the least , not easy . 
The days passed , but brought with them no official invitation to Miss Light's wedding . 
He occasionally met her , and he occasionally met Prince Casamassima but always separately , never together . 
They were apparently taking their happiness in the inexpressive manner proper to people of social eminence . 
Rowland continued to see Madame Grandoni , for whom he felt a confirmed affection . 
He had always talked to her with frankness , but now he made her a confidant of all his hidden dejection . 
Roderick and Roderick's concerns had been a common theme with him , and it was in the natural course to talk of Mrs. Hudson's arrival and Miss Garland's fine smile . 
Madame Grandoni was an intelligent listener , and she lost no time in putting his case for him in a nutshell . 
At one moment you tell me the girl is plain , she said the next you tell me she 's pretty . 
I will invite them , and I shall see for myself . 
But one thing is very clear you are in love with her . 
Rowland , for all answer , glanced round to see that no one heard her . 
More than that , she added , you have been in love with her these two years . 
There was that certain something about you ! . 
I knew you were a mild , sweet fellow , but you had a touch of it more than was natural . 
Why did n't you tell me at once ? You would have saved me a great deal of trouble . 
And poor Augusta Blanchard too ! And herewith Madame Grandoni communicated a pertinent fact Augusta Blanchard and Mr. Leavenworth were going to make a match . 
The young lady had been staying for a month at Albano , and Mr. Leavenworth had been dancing attendance . 
The event was a matter of course . 
Rowland , who had been lately reproaching himself with a failure of attention to Miss Blanchard's doings , made some such observation . 
But you did not find it so ! cried his hostess . 
She would have accepted you if you had tried . 
You are supposing the insupposable , said Rowland . 
She never gave me a particle of encouragement . 
What would you have had her do ? The poor girl did her best , and I am sure that when she accepted Mr. Leavenworth she thought of you . 
She thought of the pleasure her marriage would give me . 
Ay , pleasure indeed ! She is a thoroughly good girl , but she has her little grain of feminine spite , like the rest . 
If I like her , I will forgive you if I don't , I shall always bear you a grudge . 
Rowland answered that he was sorry to forfeit any advantage she might offer him , but that his exculpatory passion for Miss Garland was a figment of her fancy . 
Miss Garland was engaged to another man , and he himself had no claims . 
Well , then , said Madame Grandoni , if I like her , we 'll have it that you ought to be in love with her . 
If you fail in this , it will be a double misdemeanor . 
The man she 's engaged to does n't care a straw for her . 
Leave me alone and I 'll tell her what I think of you . 
As to Christina Light's marriage , Madame Grandoni could make no definite statement . 
It was for Prince Casamassima to do that . 
It is what they call a marriage of reason , she once said . 
That means , you know , a marriage of madness ! What have you said in the way of advice ? Rowland asked . 
Very little , but that little has favored the prince . 
I know nothing of the mysteries of the young lady's heart . 
It may be a gold mine , but at any rate it 's a mine , and it 's a long journey down into it . 
But the marriage in itself is an excellent marriage . 
It 's not only brilliant , but it 's safe . 
I think Christina is quite capable of making it a means of misery but there is no position that would be sacred to her . 
Casamassima is an irreproachable young man there is nothing against him but that he is a prince . 
It is not often , I fancy , that a prince has been put through his paces at this rate . 
No one knows the wedding day the cards of invitation have been printed half a dozen times over , with a different date each time Christina has destroyed them . 
It is true , then , that she has become a Catholic ? So she tells me . 
One day she got up in the depths of despair at her wit's end , I suppose , in other words , for a new sensation . 
She put on a black dress and a black lace veil , and looking handsomer than ever she rustled into the Catholic church . 
The prince , who is very devout , and who had her heresy sorely on his conscience , was thrown into an ecstasy . 
The girl is so deucedly dramatic , he said , that I don't know what coup de theatre she may have in store for us . 
Such a stroke was her turning Catholic such a stroke would be her some day making her courtesy to a disappointed world as Princess Casamassima , married at midnight , in her bonnet . 
She might do she may do something that would make even more starers ! I 'm prepared for anything . 
You by no means exhaust the subject when you say that Christina is dramatic . 
It 's my belief that in the course of her life she will do a certain number of things from pure disinterested passion . 
She 's immeasurably proud , and if that is often a fault in a virtuous person , it may be a merit in a vicious one . 
Rowland , as he was taking his leave , after some further exchange of opinions , rendered Miss Light the tribute of a deeply meditative sigh . 
She has bothered me half to death , he said , but somehow I can't manage , as I ought , to hate her . 
I admire her , half the time , and a good part of the rest I pity her . 
I think I most pity her ! said Madame Grandoni . 
This enlightened woman came the next day to call upon the two ladies from Northampton . 
She carried their shy affections by storm , and made them promise to drink tea with her on the evening of the morrow . 
Her visit was an era in the life of poor Mrs. Hudson , who did nothing but make sudden desultory allusions to her , for the next thirty six hours . 
A great many rings , but nothing very handsome . 
I suppose they are hereditary . 
Or , She 's certainly not handsome , but she 's very sweet looking . 
I wonder why she does n't have something done to her teeth . 
Rowland also received a summons to Madame Grandoni's tea drinking , and went betimes , as he had been requested . 
He was eagerly desirous to lend his mute applause to Mary Garland's debut in the Roman social world . 
The two ladies had arrived , with Roderick , silent and careless , in attendance . 
Miss Blanchard was also present , escorted by Mr. Leavenworth , and the party was completed by a dozen artists of both sexes and various nationalities . 
It was a friendly and easy assembly , like all Madame Grandoni's parties , and in the course of the evening there was some excellent music . 
People played and sang for Madame Grandoni , on easy terms , who , elsewhere , were not to be heard for the asking . 
She was herself a superior musician , and singers found it a privilege to perform to her accompaniment . 
Rowland talked to various persons , but for the first time in his life his attention visibly wandered he could not keep his eyes off Mary Garland . 
She was dressed more than he had ever seen her it was becoming , and gave her a deeper color and an ampler presence . 
Two or three persons were introduced to her who were apparently witty people , for she sat listening to them with her brilliant natural smile . 
Now that he had done him an impertinence , he evidently found him less intolerable . 
Mr. Leavenworth stood stirring his tea and silently opening and shutting his mouth , without looking at the young sculptor , like a large , drowsy dog snapping at flies . 
He congratulated Miss Blanchard upon her engagement , and she received his compliment with a touch of primness . 
, who had just the right amount . 
He went to Madame Grandoni in an adjoining room , where she was pouring out tea . 
I will make you an excellent cup , she said , because I have forgiven you . 
In a moment he intimated that , in so far as he had sinned , he had forgiven himself . 
She is a lovely girl , said Madame Grandoni . 
There is a great deal there . 
I have taken a great fancy to her , and she must let me make a friend of her . 
She is very plain , said Rowland , slowly , very simple , very ignorant . 
Which , being interpreted , means , 'She is very handsome , very subtle , and has read hundreds of volumes on winter evenings in the country . 
Their eyes met in a glance of intelligence . 
There is the sorceress ! said Madame Grandoni . 
The sorceress and her necromantic poodle ! And she hastened back to the post of hospitality . 
Rowland followed her , and found Christina Light standing in the middle of the drawing room , and looking about in perplexity . 
Her poodle , sitting on his haunches and gazing at the company , had apparently been expressing a sympathetic displeasure at the absence of a welcome . 
But in a moment Madame Grandoni had come to the young girl's relief , and Christina had tenderly kissed her . 
I had no idea , said Christina , surveying the assembly , that you had such a lot of grand people , or I would not have come in . 
The servant said nothing he took me for an invitee . 
I came to spend a neighborly half hour you know I have n't many left ! It was too dismally dreary at home . 
I hoped I should find you alone , and I brought Stenterello to play with the cat . 
I am not dressed , but am I very hideous ? I will sit in a corner and no one will notice me . 
My dear , sweet lady , do let me stay . 
Pray , why did n't you ask me ? I never have been to a little party like this . 
They must be very charming . 
No dancing tea and conversation ? No tea , thank you but if you could spare a biscuit for Stenterello a sweet biscuit , please . 
Your dress will do very well , with its fifty flounces , and there is no need of your going into a corner . 
Indeed , since you 're here , I propose to have the glory of it . 
You must remain where my people can see you . 
They are evidently determined to do that by the way they stare . 
They were of course observing her . 
She seemed to be a sort of extemporized tableau vivant . 
Rowland's position made it becoming for him to speak to her without delay . 
In a simpler person he would have called it exquisite kindness but in this young lady's deportment the flower was one thing and the perfume another . 
Tell me about these people , she said to him . 
I had no idea there were so many people in Rome I had not seen . 
What are they all talking about ? It 's all beyond me , I suppose . 
There is Miss Blanchard , sitting as usual in profile against a dark object . 
She is like a head on a postage stamp . 
And there is that nice little old lady in black , Mrs. Hudson . 
What a dear little woman for a mother ! Comme elle est proprette ! And the other , the fiancee , of course she 's here . 
Ah , I see ! She paused she was looking intently at Miss Garland . 
Rowland measured the intentness of her glance , and suddenly acquired a firm conviction . 
I should like so much to know her ! she said , turning to Madame Grandoni . 
She has a charming face I am sure she 's an angel . 
I wish very much you would introduce me . 
No , on second thoughts , I had rather you did n't . 
I will speak to her bravely myself , as a friend of her cousin . 
He stationed himself upon it , on his haunches , with upright vigilance . 
Christina crossed the room with the step and smile of a ministering angel , and introduced herself to Mary Garland . 
She had once told Rowland that she would show him , some day , how gracious her manners could be she was now redeeming her promise . 
Rowland , watching her , saw Mary Garland rise slowly , in response to her greeting , and look at her with serious deep gazing eyes . 
The almost dramatic opposition of these two keenly interesting girls touched Rowland with a nameless apprehension , and after a moment he preferred to turn away . 
In doing so he noticed Roderick . 
The young sculptor was standing planted on the train of a lady's dress , gazing across at Christina's movements with undisguised earnestness . 
There were several more pieces of music Rowland sat in a corner and listened to them . 
When they were over , several people began to take their leave , Mrs. Hudson among the number . 
Rowland saw her come up to Madame Grandoni , clinging shyly to Mary Garland's arm . 
Miss Garland had a brilliant eye and a deep color in her cheek . 
The two ladies looked about for Roderick , but Roderick had his back turned . 
Christina's eye , like Miss Garland's , was bright , but her cheek was pale . 
Hearing Roderick's voice , she looked up at him sharply then silently , with a single quick gesture , motioned him away . 
He obeyed her , and came and joined his mother in bidding good night to Madame Grandoni . 
Christina , in a moment , met Rowland's glance , and immediately beckoned him to come to her . 
He was familiar with her spontaneity of movement , and was scarcely surprised . 
She made a place for him on the sofa beside her he wondered what was coming now . 
He was not sure it was not a mere fancy , but it seemed to him that he had never seen her look just as she was looking then . 
It was a humble , touching , appealing look , and it threw into wonderful relief the nobleness of her beauty . 
How many more metamorphoses , he asked himself , am I to be treated to before we have done ? I want to tell you , said Christina . 
I have taken an immense fancy to Miss Garland . 
Are n't you glad ? Delighted ! exclaimed poor Rowland . 
Ah , you don't believe it , she said with soft dignity . 
Is it so hard to believe ? Not that people in general should admire her , but that I should . 
But I want to tell you I want to tell some one , and I can't tell Miss Garland herself . 
She thinks me already a horrid false creature , and if I were to express to her frankly what I think of her , I should simply disgust her . 
She would be quite right she has repose , and from that point of view I and my doings must seem monstrous . 
Unfortunately , I have n't repose . 
Oh , I know that ! To begin with , she is extremely handsome , and she does n't know it . 
She is not generally thought handsome , said Rowland . 
Evidently ! That 's the vulgarity of the human mind . 
Her head has great character , great natural style . 
If a woman is not to be a supreme beauty in the regular way , she will choose , if she 's wise , to look like that . 
That lot is as good as another ! Then she has a beautiful character ! You found that out soon ! said Rowland , smiling . 
How long did it take you ? I found it out before I ever spoke to her . 
I met her the other day in Saint Peter's I knew it then . 
I knew it do you want to know how long I have known it ? Really , said Rowland , I did n't mean to cross examine you . 
Do you remember mamma's ball in December ? We had some talk and you then mentioned her not by name . 
You said but three words , but I saw you admired her , and I knew that if you admired her she must have a beautiful character . 
That 's what you require ! Upon my word , cried Rowland , you make three words go very far ! Oh , Mr. Hudson has also spoken of her . 
Ah , that 's better ! said Rowland . 
I don't know he does n't like her . 
Did he tell you so ? The question left Rowland's lips before he could stay it , which he would have done on a moment's reflection . 
Christina looked at him intently . 
No ! she said at last . 
That would have been dishonorable , would n't it ? But I know it from my knowledge of him . 
Christina beckoned to her poodle , and the dog marched stiffly across to her . 
She gave a loving twist to his rose colored top knot , and bade him go and fetch her burnous . 
He obeyed , gathered it up in his teeth , and returned with great solemnity , dragging it along the floor . 
I do her full justice , she went on , with soft earnestness . 
I like to say that , I like to be able to say it . 
She 's full of intelligence and courage and devotion . 
She does n't do me a grain of justice but that is no harm . 
What do you mean by a chance ? She has only to take it . 
I told her I liked her immensely , and she frowned as if I had said something disgusting . 
She looks very handsome when she frowns . 
Christina rose , with these words , and began to gather her mantle about her . 
I don't often like women , she went on . 
In fact I generally detest them . 
But I should like to know Miss Garland well . 
I should like to have a friendship with her I have never had one they must be very delightful . 
But I shan't have one now , either not if she can help it ! Ask her what she thinks of me see what she will say . 
I don't want to know keep it to yourself . 
So we go through life . 
It 's because I have imagination . 
Never mind it 's her only fault . 
I do her justice I understand very well . 
She kept softly murmuring and looking about for Madame Grandoni . 
She saw the good lady near the door , and put out her hand to Rowland for good night . 
She held his hand an instant , fixing him with her eyes , the living splendor of which , at this moment , was something transcendent . 
Yes , I do her justice , she repeated . 
And you do her more you would lay down your life for her . 
With this she turned away , and before he could answer , she left him . 
She went to Madame Grandoni , grasped her two hands , and held out her forehead to be kissed . 
The next moment she was gone . 
That was a happy accident ! said Madame Grandoni . 
She never looked so beautiful , and she made my little party brilliant . 
Beautiful , verily ! Rowland answered . 
But it was no accident . 
What was it , then ? It was a plan . 
She wished to see Miss Garland . 
She knew she was to be here . 
How so ? By Roderick , evidently . 
And why did she wish to see Miss Garland ? Heaven knows ! I give it up ! Ah , the wicked girl ! murmured Madame Grandoni . 
No , said Rowland don't say that now . 
It was a Saturday afternoon , the time at which the beautiful marbles of the Villa Borghese are thrown open to the public . 
Mary had told him that Roderick had promised to take her to see them , with his mother , and he joined the party in the splendid Casino . 
The warm weather had left so few strangers in Rome that they had the place almost to themselves . 
Roderick had sauntered off alone , with an irritated brow , which seemed to betray the conflict between the instinct of observation and the perplexities of circumstance . 
Miss Garland was wandering in another direction , and though she was consulting her catalogue , Rowland fancied it was from habit she too was preoccupied . 
He joined her , and she presently sat down on a divan , rather wearily , and closed her Murray . 
Then he asked her abruptly how Christina had pleased her . 
She started the least bit at the question , and he felt that she had been thinking of Christina . 
I don't like her ! she said with decision . 
What do you think of her ? I think she 's false . 
This was said without petulance or bitterness , but with a very positive air . 
But she wished to please you she tried , Rowland rejoined , in a moment . 
She wished to please herself ! Rowland felt himself at liberty to say no more . 
To what extent she had the will , Mary was uncertain but last night's interview , apparently , had not reassured her . 
He tried to talk of indifferent matters about the statues and the frescoes but to day , plainly , aesthetic curiosity , with Miss Garland , had folded its wings . 
Curiosity of another sort had taken its place . 
Mary was longing , he was sure , to question him about Christina but she found a dozen reasons for hesitating . 
Her questions would imply that Roderick had not treated her with confidence , for information on this point should properly have come from him . 
They would imply that she was jealous , and to betray her jealousy was intolerable to her pride . 
For some minutes , as she sat scratching the brilliant pavement with the point of her umbrella , it was to be supposed that her pride and her anxiety held an earnest debate . 
A propos of Miss Light , she asked , do you know her well ? I can hardly say that . 
But I have seen her repeatedly . 
Do you like her ? Yes and no . 
I think I am sorry for her . 
Mary had spoken with her eyes on the pavement . 
At this she looked up . 
Sorry for her ? Why ? Well she is unhappy . 
What are her misfortunes ? Well she has a horrible mother , and she has had a most injurious education . 
For a moment Miss Garland was silent . 
Then , Is n't she very beautiful ? she asked . 
Don't you think so ? That 's measured by what men think ! She is extremely clever , too . 
Yes , any number of them . 
And she receives great admiration . 
And she is to marry a prince . 
Miss Garland rose and turned to rejoin her companions , commenting these admissions with a pregnant silence . 
Poor Miss Light ! she said at last , simply . 
And in this it seemed to Rowland there was a touch of bitterness . 
Very late on the following evening his servant brought him the card of a visitor . 
He was surprised at a visit at such an hour , but it may be said that when he read the inscription Cavaliere Giuseppe Giacosa his surprise declined . 
He had had an unformulated conviction that there was to be a sequel to the apparition at Madame Grandoni's the Cavaliere had come to usher it in . 
He had come , evidently , on a portentous errand . 
He was as pale as ashes and prodigiously serious his little cold black eye had grown ardent , and he had left his caressing smile at home . 
He saluted Rowland , however , with his usual obsequious bow . 
You have more than once done me the honor to invite me to call upon you , he said . 
I am ashamed of my long delay , and I can only say to you , frankly , that my time this winter has not been my own . 
Rowland assented , ungrudgingly fumbled for the Italian correlative of the adage Better late than never , begged him to be seated , and offered him a cigar . 
The Cavaliere sniffed imperceptibly the fragrant weed , and then declared that , if his kind host would allow him , he would reserve it for consumption at another time . 
He apparently desired to intimate that the solemnity of his errand left him no breath for idle smoke puffings . 
I must confess , the little old man resumed , that even now I come on business not of my own or my own , at least , only in a secondary sense . 
I have been dispatched as an ambassador , an envoy extraordinary , I may say , by my dear friend Mrs. Light . 
If I can in any way be of service to Mrs. Light , I shall be happy , Rowland said . 
Well then , dear sir , Casa Light is in commotion . 
The signora is in trouble in terrible trouble . 
For a moment Rowland expected to hear that the signora's trouble was of a nature that a loan of five thousand francs would assuage . 
But the Cavaliere continued Miss Light has committed a great crime she has plunged a dagger into the heart of her mother . 
A dagger ! cried Rowland . 
The Cavaliere patted the air an instant with his finger tips . 
She has broken off her marriage . 
Broken it off ? Short ! She has turned the prince from the door . 
And the Cavaliere , when he had made this announcement , folded his arms and bent upon Rowland his intense , inscrutable gaze . 
Rowland heard his news with a kind of fierce disgust it seemed the sinister counterpart of Christina's preternatural mildness at Madame Grandoni's tea party . 
She had been too plausible to be honest . 
Without being able to trace the connection , he yet instinctively associated her present rebellion with her meeting with Mary Garland . 
If she had not seen Mary , she would have let things stand . 
Yet Rowland remembered his first impression of her she was dangerous , and she had measured in each direction the perturbing effect of her rupture . 
She was smiling her sweetest smile at it ! For half an hour Rowland simply detested her , and longed to denounce her to her face . 
Of course all he could say to Giacosa was that he was extremely sorry . 
But I am not surprised , he added . 
You are not surprised ? With Miss Light everything is possible . 
Is n't that true ? Another ripple seemed to play for an instant in the current of the old man's irony , but he waived response . 
It was a magnificent marriage , he said , solemnly . 
I do not respect many people , but I respect Prince Casamassima . 
I should judge him indeed to be a very honorable young man , said Rowland . 
Eh , young as he is , he 's made of the old stuff . 
And now , perhaps he 's blowing his brains out . 
He is the last of his house it 's a great house . 
But Miss Light will have put an end to it ! Is that the view she takes of it ? Rowland ventured to ask . 
This time , unmistakably , the Cavaliere smiled , but still in that very out of the way place . 
You have observed Miss Light with attention , he said , and this brings me to my errand . 
Mrs. Light has a high opinion of your wisdom , of your kindness , and she has reason to believe you have influence with her daughter . 
I with her daughter ? Not a grain ! That is possibly your modesty . 
Mrs. Light believes that something may yet be done , and that Christina will listen to you . 
She begs you to come and see her before it is too late . 
But all this , my dear Cavaliere , is none of my business , Rowland objected . 
I can't possibly , in such a matter , take the responsibility of advising Miss Light . 
The Cavaliere fixed his eyes for a moment on the floor , in brief but intense reflection . 
The Cavaliere was so pale that he could not easily have turned paler yet it seemed for a moment that his dead complexion blanched . 
Eh , signore , such as she is , the mother appeals to you . 
I must add , said the Cavaliere , that Mrs. Light desires also to speak to you on the subject of Mr. Hudson . 
She considers Mr. Hudson , then , connected with this step of her daughter's ? Intimately . 
He must be got out of Rome . 
Mrs. Light , then , must get an order from the Pope to remove him . 
It 's not in my power . 
The Cavaliere assented , deferentially . 
Mrs. Light is equally helpless . 
She would leave Rome to morrow , but Christina will not budge . 
An order from the Pope would do nothing . 
A bull in council would do nothing . 
She 's a remarkable young lady , said Rowland , with bitterness . 
But the Cavaliere rose and responded coldly , She has a great spirit . 
And it seemed to Rowland that her great spirit , for mysterious reasons , gave him more pleasure than the distressing use she made of it gave him pain . 
He was on the point of charging him with his inconsistency , when Giacosa resumed But if the marriage can be saved , it must be saved . 
It 's a beautiful marriage . 
Notwithstanding Miss Light's great spirit to the contrary ? Miss Light , notwithstanding her great spirit , will call Prince Casamassima back . 
Heaven grant it ! said Rowland . 
I don't know , said the Cavaliere , solemnly , that heaven will have much to do with it . 
Rowland gave him a questioning look , but he laid his finger on his lips . 
And with Rowland's promise to present himself on the morrow at Casa Light , he shortly afterwards departed . 
He left Rowland revolving many things Christina's magnanimity , Christina's perversity , Roderick's contingent fortune , Mary Garland's certain trouble , and the Cavaliere's own fine ambiguities . 
Rowland's promise to the Cavaliere obliged him to withdraw from an excursion which he had arranged with the two ladies from Northampton . 
Before going to Casa Light he repaired in person to Mrs. Hudson's hotel , to make his excuses . 
He found Roderick's mother sitting with tearful eyes , staring at an open note that lay in her lap . 
At the window sat Miss Garland , who turned her intense regard upon him as he came in . 
Mrs. Hudson quickly rose and came to him , holding out the note . 
What have you there ? A note a dreadful note . 
He tells us we are not to see him for a week . 
If I could only go to his room ! But I am afraid , I am afraid ! I imagine there is no need of going to his room . 
What is the occasion , may I ask , of his note ? He was to have gone with us on this drive to what is the place ? to Cervara . 
You know it was arranged yesterday morning . 
In the evening he was to have dined with us . 
But he never came , and this morning arrives this awful thing . 
Oh dear , I 'm so excited ! Would you mind reading it ? Rowland took the note and glanced at its half dozen lines . 
I cannot go to Cervara , they ran I have something else to do . 
This will occupy me perhaps for a week , and you 'll not see me . 
Don't miss me learn not to miss me . 
R. H. Why , it means , Rowland commented , that he has taken up a piece of work , and that it is all absorbing . 
That 's very good news . 
This explanation was not sincere but he had not the courage not to offer it as a stop gap . 
But he found he needed all his courage to maintain it , for Miss Garland had left her place and approached him , formidably unsatisfied . 
He does not work in the evening , said Mrs. Hudson . 
She was still looking at Rowland his eyes met hers , and his own glance fell . 
This made him angry , and to carry off his confusion he pretended to be looking at the floor , in meditation . 
I will see what it is ! he cried . 
He went straight to Roderick's apartment , deeming this , at an early hour , the safest place to seek him . 
He found him in his sitting room , which had been closely darkened to keep out the heat . 
The carpets and rugs had been removed , the floor of speckled concrete was bare and lightly sprinkled with water . 
Here and there , over it , certain strongly perfumed flowers had been scattered . 
Roderick was lying on his divan in a white dressing gown , staring up at the frescoed ceiling . 
The room was deliciously cool , and filled with the moist , sweet odor of the circumjacent roses and violets . 
All this seemed highly fantastic , and yet Rowland hardly felt surprised . 
Your mother was greatly alarmed at your note , he said , and I came to satisfy myself that , as I believed , you are not ill . 
Roderick lay motionless , except that he slightly turned his head toward his friend . 
He was smelling a large white rose , and he continued to present it to his nose . 
In the darkness of the room he looked exceedingly pale , but his handsome eyes had an extraordinary brilliancy . 
He let them rest for some time on Rowland , lying there like a Buddhist in an intellectual swoon , whose perception should be slowly ebbing back to temporal matters . 
Oh , I 'm not ill , he said at last . 
I have never been better . 
Your note , nevertheless , and your absence , Rowland said , have very naturally alarmed your mother . 
I advise you to go to her directly and reassure her . 
Go to her ? Going to her would be worse than staying away . 
Staying away at present is a kindness . 
And he inhaled deeply his huge rose , looking up over it at Rowland . 
My presence , in fact , would be indecent . 
Why , you see , as regards Mary Garland . 
I am divinely happy ! Does n't it strike you ? You ought to agree with me . 
You wish me to spare her feelings I spare them by staying away . 
Last night I heard something I heard it , too , said Rowland with brevity . 
And it 's in honor of this piece of news that you have taken to your bed in this fashion ? Extremes meet ! I can't get up for joy . 
May I inquire how you heard your joyous news ? from Miss Light herself ? By no means . 
It was brought me by her maid , who is in my service as well . 
Casamassima's loss , then , is to a certainty your gain ? I don't talk about certainties . 
I don't want to be arrogant , I don't want to offend the immortal gods . 
I 'm keeping very quiet , but I can't help being happy . 
I shall wait a while I shall bide my time . 
I congratulate you , I envy you ! Roderick murmured , imperturbably . 
Mrs. Light has sent for me to remonstrate with her daughter , with whom she has taken it into her head that I have influence . 
I don't know to what extent I shall remonstrate , but I give you notice I shall not speak in your interest . 
Roderick looked at him a moment with a lazy radiance in his eyes . 
Pray don't ! he simply answered . 
You deserve I should tell her you are a very shabby fellow . 
My dear Rowland , the comfort with you is that I can trust you . 
You 're incapable of doing anything disloyal . 
I have done them a palpable wrong , but I can at least forbear to add insult to injury . 
I may be an arrant fool , but , for the moment , I have taken it into my head to be prodigiously pleased . 
I should n't be able to conceal it my pleasure would offend them so I lock myself up as a dangerous character . 
Well , I can only say , 'May your pleasure never grow less , or your danger greater ! Roderick closed his eyes again , and sniffed at his rose . 
God's will be done ! On this Rowland left him and repaired directly to Mrs. Light's . 
This afflicted lady hurried forward to meet him . 
Speak to her , plead with her , command her ! she cried , pressing and shaking his hands . 
She 'll not heed us , no more than if we were a pair of clocks a ticking . 
Perhaps she will listen to you she always liked you . 
She always disliked me , said Rowland . 
But that does n't matter now . 
I have come here simply because you sent for me , not because I can help you . 
I cannot advise your daughter . 
Oh , cruel , deadly man ! You must advise her you shan't leave this house till you have advised her ! the poor woman passionately retorted . 
If this goes on , we may both as well turn scarecrows . 
If ever a woman was desperate , frantic , heart broken , I am that woman . 
I can't begin to tell you . 
It can't be , it 's too cruel , such things don't happen , the Lord don't allow it . 
I 'm a religious woman , sir , and the Lord knows all about me . 
No , she 's a cruel , wicked , heartless , unnatural girl ! I speak to you , Mr. Mallet , in my dire distress , as to my only friend . 
There is n't a creature here that I can look to not one of them all that I have faith in . 
But I always admired you . 
I said to Christina the first time I saw you that there at last was a real gentleman . 
I have it at heart to tell you , Rowland said , that if you consider my friend Hudson Mrs. Light gave a toss of her head and hands . 
Oh , it 's not that . 
She told me last night to bother her no longer with Hudson , Hudson ! She did n't care a button for Hudson . 
I almost wish she did then perhaps one might understand it . 
But she does n't care for anything in the wide world , except to do her own hard , wicked will , and to crush me and shame me with her cruelty . 
Ah , then , said Rowland , I am as much at sea as you , and my presence here is an impertinence . 
I should like to say three words to Miss Light on my own account . 
But I must absolutely and inexorably decline to urge the cause of Prince Casamassima . 
Mrs. Light burst into angry tears . 
I knew there were vulgar people of that way of feeling , but I did n't expect it of you . 
Make an effort , Mr. Mallet rise to the occasion forgive the poor fellow his splendor . 
Be just , be reasonable ! It 's not his fault , and it 's not mine . 
The man first the money afterwards that was always my motto , and always will be . 
What he has been through in this house , not a common peasant would endure . 
Christina has treated him as you would n't treat a dog . 
He has been insulted , outraged , persecuted ! He has been driven hither and thither till he did n't know where he was . 
He used to beg my forgiveness for Christina . 
Mrs. Light looked at him hard , slowly drying her eyes . 
The intensity of her grief and anger gave her a kind of majesty , and Rowland , for the moment , felt ashamed of the ironical ring of his observation . 
Very good , sir , she said . 
I 'm sorry your heart is not so tender as your conscience . 
My compliments to your conscience ! It must give you great happiness . 
Heaven help me ! Since you fail us , we are indeed driven to the wall . 
But I have fought my own battles before , and I have never lost courage , and I don't see why I should break down now . 
Cavaliere , come here ! Giacosa rose at her summons and advanced with his usual deferential alacrity . 
He shook hands with Rowland in silence . 
Mr. Mallet refuses to say a word , Mrs. Light went on . 
Time presses , every moment is precious . 
Heaven knows what that poor boy may be doing . 
If at this moment a clever woman should get hold of him she might be as ugly as she pleased ! It 's horrible to think of it . 
The Cavaliere fixed his eyes on Rowland , and his look , which the night before had been singular , was now most extraordinary . 
Suddenly , though most vaguely , Rowland felt the presence of a new element in the drama that was going on before him . 
He looked from the Cavaliere to Mrs. Light , whose eyes were now quite dry , and were fixed in stony hardness on the floor . 
You would save several persons a great pain . 
The dear signora , first , and then Christina herself . 
Me too , I might take the liberty to add ! There was , to Rowland , something acutely touching in this humble petition . 
He had always felt a sort of imaginative tenderness for poor little unexplained Giacosa , and these words seemed a supreme contortion of the mysterious obliquity of his life . 
All of a sudden , as he watched the Cavaliere , something occurred to him it was something very odd , and it stayed his glance suddenly from again turning to Mrs. Light . 
His idea embarrassed him , and to carry off his embarrassment , he repeated that it was folly to suppose that his words would have any weight with Christina . 
The Cavaliere stepped forward and laid two fingers on Rowland's breast . 
Do you wish to know the truth ? You are the only man whose words she remembers . 
Rowland was going from surprise to surprise . 
I will say what I can ! he said . 
By this time he had ventured to glance at Mrs. Light . 
She was looking at him askance , as if , upon this , she was suddenly mistrusting his motives . 
If you fail , she said sharply , we have something else ! But please to lose no time . 
She had hardly spoken when the sound of a short , sharp growl caused the company to turn . 
Christina's fleecy poodle stood in the middle of the vast saloon , with his muzzle lowered , in pompous defiance of the three conspirators against the comfort of his mistress . 
This young lady's claims for him seemed justified he was an animal of amazingly delicate instincts . 
He had preceded Christina as a sort of van guard of defense , and she now slowly advanced from a neighboring room . 
You will be so good as to listen to Mr. Mallet , her mother said , in a terrible voice , and to reflect carefully upon what he says . 
I suppose you will admit that he is disinterested . 
In half an hour you shall hear from me again ! And passing her hand through the Cavaliere's arm , she swept rapidly out of the room . 
Christina looked hard at Rowland , but offered him no greeting . 
She was very pale , and , strangely enough , it at first seemed to Rowland that her beauty was in eclipse . 
But he very soon perceived that it had only changed its character , and that if it was a trifle less brilliant than usual , it was admirably touching and noble . 
The clouded light of her eyes , the magnificent gravity of her features , the conscious erectness of her head , might have belonged to a deposed sovereign or a condemned martyr . 
Why have you come here at this time ? she asked . 
Your mother sent for me in pressing terms , and I was very glad to have an opportunity to speak to you . 
Have you come to help me , or to persecute me ? I have as little power to do one as I have desire to do the other . 
I came in great part to ask you a question . 
First , your decision is irrevocable ? Christina's two hands had been hanging clasped in front of her she separated them and flung them apart by an admirable gesture . 
Would you have done this if you had not seen Miss Garland ? She looked at him with quickened attention then suddenly , This is interesting ! she cried . 
Let us have it out . 
And she flung herself into a chair and pointed to another . 
You don't answer my question , Rowland said . 
You have no right , that I know of , to ask it . 
But it 's a very clever one so clever that it deserves an answer . 
Very likely I would not . 
Last night , when I said that to myself , I was extremely angry , Rowland rejoined . 
Oh , dear , and you are not angry now ? I am less angry . 
How very stupid ! But you can say something at least . 
If I were to say what is uppermost in my mind , I would say that , face to face with you , it is never possible to condemn you . 
Perche ? You know , yourself ! But I can at least say now what I felt last night . 
It seemed to me that you had consciously , cruelly dealt a blow at that poor girl . 
Do you understand ? Wait a moment ! And with her eyes fixed on him , she inclined her head on one side , meditatively . 
Then a cold , brilliant smile covered her face , and she made a gesture of negation . 
I see your train of reasoning , but it 's quite wrong . 
I meant no harm to Miss Garland I should be extremely sorry to make her suffer . 
Tell me you believe that . 
This was said with ineffable candor . 
Rowland heard himself answering , I believe it ! And yet , in a sense , your supposition was true , Christina continued . 
I conceived , as I told you , a great admiration for Miss Garland , and I frankly confess I was jealous of her . 
What I envied her was simply her character ! I said to myself , 'She , in my place , would n't marry Casamassima . 
I could not help saying it , and I said it so often that I found a kind of inspiration in it . 
I hated the idea of being worse than she of doing something that she would n't do . 
I might be bad by nature , but I need n't be by volition . 
The end of it all was that I found it impossible not to tell the prince that I was his very humble servant , but that I could not marry him . 
Are you sure it was only of Miss Garland's character that you were jealous , not of not of Speak out , I beg you . 
We are talking philosophy ! Not of her affection for her cousin ? Sure is a good deal to ask . 
Rowland was puzzled , baffled , charmed , inspired , almost , all at once . 
I have promised your mother , he presently resumed , to say something in favor of Prince Casamassima . 
She shook her head sadly . 
Prince Casamassima needs nothing that you can say for him . 
He is a magnificent parti . 
You know also of the extreme affliction of your mother ? Her affliction is demonstrative . 
She has been abusing me for the last twenty four hours as if I were the vilest of the vile . 
To see Christina sit there in the purity of her beauty and say this , might have made one bow one's head with a kind of awe . 
I have failed of respect to her at other times , but I have not done so now . 
Since we are talking philosophy , she pursued with a gentle smile , I may say it 's a simple matter ! I don't love him . 
Or rather , perhaps , since we are talking philosophy , I may say it 's not a simple matter . 
I spoke just now of inspiration . 
The inspiration has been great , but I frankly confess it the choice has been hard . 
I know what that is I have tasted of the cup , I know its sweetness . 
You would see some fine things ! I should like to be a princess , and I think I should be a very good one I would play my part well . 
I am fond of luxury , I am fond of a great society , I am fond of being looked at . 
Rowland saw that an intense agitation , hitherto successfully repressed , underlay her calmness , and he could easily believe that her battle had been fierce . 
She rose quickly and turned away , walked a few paces , and stopped . 
In a moment she was facing him again , with tears in her eyes and a flush in her cheeks . 
But you need n't think I 'm afraid ! she said . 
I have chosen , and I shall hold to it . 
I have something here , here , here ! and she patted her heart . 
I shan't part with it . 
Is there any hope for him ? This is a point I can't discuss with you minutely . 
I like him very much . 
Would you marry him if he were to ask you ? He has asked me . 
And if he asks again ? I shall marry no one just now . 
Roderick , said Rowland , has great hopes . 
Does he know of my rupture with the prince ? He is making a great holiday of it . 
Christina pulled her poodle towards her and began to smooth his silky fleece . 
I like him very much , she repeated much more than I used to . 
Since you told me all that about him at Saint Cecilia's , I have felt a great friendship for him . 
There 's something very fine about him he 's not afraid of anything . 
He is not afraid of failure he is not afraid of ruin or death . 
Poor fellow ! said Rowland , bitterly he is fatally picturesque . 
Picturesque , yes that 's what he is . 
I am very sorry for him . 
Your mother told me just now that you had said that you did n't care a straw for him . 
Very likely ! I meant as a lover . 
One does n't want a lover one pities , and one does n't want of all things in the world a picturesque husband ! I should like Mr. Hudson as something else . 
I wish he were my brother , so that he could never talk to me of marriage . 
Then I could adore him . 
I would nurse him , I would wait on him and save him all disagreeable rubs and shocks . 
I am much stronger than he , and I would stand between him and the world . 
Oh , Heaven forbid ! cried poor Rowland , with a groan . 
She stopped half way , and gave the young persons a flushed and menacing look . 
It found apparently little to reassure her , and she moved away with a passionate toss of her drapery . 
Rowland thought with horror of the sinister compulsion to which the young girl was to be subjected . 
She would need all her magnanimity for her own trial , and it seemed gross to make further demands upon it on Roderick's behalf . 
Rowland took up his hat . 
You asked a while ago if I had come to help you , he said . 
If I knew how I might help you , I should be particularly glad . 
She stood silent a moment , reflecting . 
He could hardly help smiling . 
Madame Grandoni had insisted on the fact that Christina was an actress , though a sincere one and this little speech seemed a glimpse of the cloven foot . 
You are an excellent girl ! he said , in a particular tone , and gave her his hand in farewell . 
There was a great chain of rooms in Mrs. Light's apartment , the pride and joy of the hostess on festal evenings , through which the departing visitor passed before reaching the door . 
In one of the first of these Rowland found himself waylaid and arrested by the distracted lady herself . 
Well , well ? she cried , seizing his arm . 
You are conspiring together to kill me ! Rowland tried to soothe her , to remonstrate , to persuade her that it was equally cruel and unwise to try to force matters . 
Her disappointment seemed really to have crazed her , and his only possible rejoinder was to take a summary departure . 
Giacosa looked at him a moment keenly , and then gave a shake of the head , interrogatively . 
Rowland gave a shake negative , to which the Cavaliere responded by a long , melancholy sigh . 
But her mother is determined to force matters , said Rowland . 
Eh ! it is n't an easy world . 
You should do nothing to make it harder , then . 
What will you have ? It 's a magnificent marriage . 
You disappoint me , Cavaliere , said Rowland , solemnly . 
I imagined you appreciated the great elevation of Miss Light's attitude . 
She does n't love the prince she has let the matter stand or fall by that . 
The old man grasped him by the hand and stood a moment with averted eyes . 
At last , looking at him , he held up two fingers . 
I have two hearts , he said , one for myself , one for the world . 
This one opposes Miss Light , the other adores her ! One suffers horribly at what the other does . 
I don't understand double people , Cavaliere , Rowland said , and I don't pretend to understand you . 
But I have guessed that you are going to play some secret card . 
The card is Mrs. Light's , not mine , said the Cavaliere . 
It 's a menace , at any rate ? The sword of Damocles ! It hangs by a hair . 
Christina is to be given ten minutes to recant , under penalty of having it fall . 
On the blade there is something written in strange characters . 
Don't scratch your head you will not make it out . 
I think I have guessed it , Rowland said , after a pregnant silence . 
The Cavaliere looked at him blankly but intently , and Rowland added , Though there are some signs , indeed , I don't understand . 
Puzzle them out at your leisure , said the Cavaliere , shaking his hand . 
I hear Mrs. Light I must go to my post . 
I wish you were a Catholic I would beg you to step into the first church you come to , and pray for us the next half hour . 
For 'us' ? For whom ? For all of us . 
Rowland for the next couple of days pondered his riddle . 
Mrs. Hudson Of Roderick , meanwhile , Rowland saw nothing but he immediately went to Mrs. Hudson and assured her that her son was in even exceptionally good health and spirits . 
After this he called again on the two ladies from Northampton , but , as Roderick's absence continued , he was able neither to furnish nor to obtain much comfort . 
Miss Garland's apprehensive face seemed to him an image of his own state of mind . 
He was profoundly depressed he felt that there was a storm in the air , and he wished it would come , without more delay , and perform its ravages . 
On the afternoon of the third day he went into Saint Peter's , his frequent resort whenever the outer world was disagreeable . 
From a heart ache to a Roman rain there were few importunate pains the great church did not help him to forget . 
He had wandered there for half an hour , when he came upon a short figure , lurking in the shadow of one of the great piers . 
Singleton pocketed his sketch book with a guilty air , as if it cost his modesty a pang to be detected in this greedy culture of opportunity . 
Rowland always enjoyed meeting him talking with him , in these days , was as good as a wayside gush of clear , cold water , on a long , hot walk . 
There was , perhaps , no drinking vessel , and you had to apply your lips to some simple natural conduit but the result was always a sense of extreme moral refreshment . 
On this occasion he mentally blessed the ingenuous little artist , and heard presently with keen regret that he was to leave Rome on the morrow . 
Singleton had come to bid farewell to Saint Peter's , and he was gathering a few supreme memories . 
He had earned a purse full of money , and he was meaning to take a summer's holiday going to Switzerland , to Germany , to Paris . 
He would have been grateful for another year in Rome , but what must be must be , and he had laid up treasure which , in Buffalo , would seem infinite . 
They talked some time Rowland hoped they might meet in Switzerland , and take a walk or two together . 
Singleton seemed to feel that Buffalo had marked him for her own he was afraid he should not see Rome again for many a year . 
So you expect to live at Buffalo ? Rowland asked sympathetically . 
Well , it will depend upon the views upon the attitude of my family , Singleton replied . 
Oh , I think I shall get on I think it can be done . 
If I find it can be done , I shall really be quite proud of it as an artist of course I mean , you know . 
Do you know I have some nine hundred sketches ? I shall live in my portfolio . 
Singleton grinned at what he considered a harmless jest . 
Singleton stared , open mouthed . 
Dear me , what did you expect ? Truly , said Rowland to himself , what did I expect ? I confess , cried Singleton , I can't judge him rationally . 
He fascinates me he 's the sort of man one makes one's hero of . 
Strictly speaking , he is not a hero , said Rowland . 
Singleton looked intensely grave , and , with almost tearful eyes , Is there anything amiss anything out of the way , about him ? he timidly asked . 
In my memories of this Roman artist life , he will be the central figure . 
He will stand there in radiant relief , as beautiful and unspotted as one of his own statues ! Amen ! said Rowland , gravely . 
He remembered afresh that the sea is inhabited by big fishes and little , and that the latter often find their way down the throats of the former . 
Singleton was going to spend the afternoon in taking last looks at certain other places , and Rowland offered to join him on his sentimental circuit . 
But as they were preparing to leave the church , he heard himself suddenly addressed from behind . 
Turning , he beheld a young woman whom he immediately recognized as Madame Grandoni's maid . 
Her mistress was present , she said , and begged to confer with him before he departed . 
This summons obliged Rowland to separate from Singleton , to whom he bade farewell . 
He expected that she had something especial to impart , and she lost no time in bringing forth her treasure . 
Don't shout very loud , she said , remember that we are in church there 's a limit to the noise one may make even in Saint Peter's . 
Christina Light was married this morning to Prince Casamassima . 
The young couple left Rome an hour afterwards . 
For some moments this seemed to him really terrible the dark little drama of which he had caught a glimpse had played itself out . 
He had believed that Christina would resist that she had succumbed was a proof that the pressure had been cruel . 
Madame Grandoni acknowledged an extreme curiosity as to the secret springs of these strange doings Casamassima's sudden dismissal , his still more sudden recall , the hurried private marriage . 
Listen , said Rowland , hereupon , and I will tell you something . 
And he related , in detail , his last visit to Mrs. Light and his talk with this lady , with Christina , and with the Cavaliere . 
Good , she said it 's all very curious . 
But it 's a riddle , and I only half guess it . 
Well , said Rowland , I desire to harm no one but certain suppositions have taken shape in my mind which serve as a solvent to several ambiguities . 
It is very true , Madame Grandoni answered , that the Cavaliere , as he stands , has always needed to be explained . 
He is explained by the hypothesis that , three and twenty years ago , at Ancona , Mrs. Light had a lover . 
Ancona was dull , Mrs. Light was lively , and three and twenty years ago perhaps , the Cavaliere was fascinating . 
Doubtless it would be fairer to say that he was fascinated . 
Poor Giacosa ! He has had his compensation , Rowland said . 
He has been passionately fond of Christina . 
But has Christina never wondered why ? If she had been near guessing , her mother's shabby treatment of him would have put her off the scent . 
Mrs. Light's conscience has apparently told her that she could expiate an hour's too great kindness by twenty years' contempt . 
So she kept her secret . 
Neither do I morally , said Rowland . 
I only conceive that there was a horrible , fabulous scene . 
The poor Cavaliere stood outside , at the door , white as a corpse and as dumb . 
The mother and daughter had it out together . 
Mrs. Light burnt her ships . 
When she came out she had three lines of writing in her daughter's hand , which the Cavaliere was dispatched with to the prince . 
They overtook the young man in time , and , when he reappeared , he was delighted to dispense with further waiting . 
I don't know what he thought of the look in his bride's face but that is how I roughly reconstruct history . 
Christina was forced to decide , then , that she could not afford not to be a princess ? She was reduced by humiliation . 
She was assured that it was not for her to make conditions , but to thank her stars that there were none made for her . 
That 's all nonsense ! said Madame Grandoni , energetically . 
He called , on the evening of the morrow upon Mrs. Hudson , and found Roderick with the two ladies . 
Their companion had apparently but lately entered , and Rowland afterwards learned that it was his first appearance since the writing of the note which had so distressed his mother . 
He had flung himself upon a sofa , where he sat with his chin upon his breast , staring before him with a sinister spark in his eye . 
He fixed his gaze on Rowland , but gave him no greeting . 
Miss Garland was applying herself to some needlework with conscious intentness . 
Mrs. Hudson gave Rowland , on his entrance , a touching look of gratitude . 
Oh , we have such blessed news ! she said . 
Roderick is ready to leave Rome . 
It 's not blessed news it 's most damnable news ! cried Roderick . 
Oh , but we are very glad , my son , and I am sure you will be when you get away . 
You 're looking most dreadfully thin is n't he , Mr. Mallet ? It 's plain enough you need a change . 
I 'm sure we will go wherever you like . 
Where would you like to go ? Roderick turned his head slowly and looked at her . 
He had let her take his hand , which she pressed tenderly between her own . 
He gazed at her for some time in silence . 
Poor mother ! he said at last , in a portentous tone . 
My own dear son ! murmured Mrs. Hudson in all the innocence of her trust . 
He released himself from the clasp of his mother's hand and turned away , leaning his elbows on his knees and holding his head in his hands . 
There was a silence Rowland said nothing because he was watching Miss Garland . 
Why should I stand on ceremony with Mary and Mr. Mallet ? Roderick presently added . 
Mary pretends to believe I 'm a fine fellow , and if she believes it as she ought to , nothing I can say will alter her opinion . 
Mallet knows I 'm a hopeless humbug so I need n't mince my words with him . 
Ah , my dear , don't use such dreadful language ! said Mrs. Hudson . 
He foresaw that she would bring down the hovering thunderbolt on her head . 
In God's name , Roderick cried , don't remind me of my obligations ! It 's intolerable to me , and I don't believe it 's pleasant to Mallet . 
I know they 're tremendous I know I shall never repay them . 
I 'm bankrupt ! Do you know what that means ? The poor lady sat staring , dismayed , and Rowland angrily interfered . 
Don't talk such stuff to your mother ! he cried . 
Don't you see you 're frightening her ? Frightening her ? she may as well be frightened first as last . 
Do I frighten you , mother ? Roderick demanded . 
Oh , Roderick , what do you mean ? whimpered the poor lady . 
Mr. Mallet , what does he mean ? I mean that I 'm an angry , savage , disappointed , miserable man ! Roderick went on . 
But you can't , don't think it ! The sooner you give up the idea the better for you . 
He was talking passionately , desperately , and from an irresistible need to throw off the oppressive burden of his mother's confidence . 
His cruel eloquence brought the poor lady to her feet , and she stood there with clasped hands , petrified and voiceless . 
Mary Garland quickly left her place , came straight to Roderick , and laid her hand on his arm , looking at him with all her tormented heart in her eyes . 
He made no movement to disengage himself he simply shook his head several times , in dogged negation of her healing powers . 
I really don't see , Roderick , he said , the profit of your talking in just this way at just this time . 
Don't you see how you are making your mother suffer ? Do I enjoy it myself ? cried Roderick . 
That sounds remarkably cool , no doubt , and I certainly don't deny your right to be utterly disgusted with me . 
I 'm a failure , that 's all I 'm not a first rate man . 
I 'm second rate , tenth rate , anything you please . 
It 's hardly worth while we should have any private talk about this , Mary , he said . 
The thing would be comfortable for neither of us . 
It 's better , after all , that it be said once for all and dismissed . 
There are things I can't talk to you about . 
Can I , at least ? You are such a queer creature ! I can imagine nothing you should n't talk to me about , said Mary . 
You are not afraid ? he demanded , sharply , looking at her . 
She turned away abruptly , with lowered eyes , hesitating a moment . 
Anything you think I should hear , I will hear , she said . 
And then she returned to her place at the window and took up her work . 
I have had a great blow , said Roderick . 
I was a great ass , but it does n't make the blow any easier to bear . 
Mr. Mallet , tell me what Roderick means ! said Mrs. Hudson , who had found her voice , in a tone more peremptory than Rowland had ever heard her use . 
He ought to have told you before , said Roderick . 
You ought to have let them down gently it would have saved them a great deal of pain . 
But you always want to keep things so smooth ! Allow me to say that it 's very weak of you . 
I hereby renounce such weakness ! said Rowland . 
Oh , what is it , sir what is it ? groaned Mrs. Hudson , insistently . 
Mrs. Hudson tossed her head and timidly bristled . 
This from you , Mr. Mallet ! she said with an injured air which Rowland found harrowing . 
Is it anything about money ? cried Mrs. Hudson . 
Oh , do write to Mr. Striker ! Money ? said Roderick . 
I have n't a cent of money I 'm bankrupt ! Oh , Mr. Mallet , how could you let him ? asked Mrs. Hudson , terribly . 
Everything I have is at his service , said Rowland , feeling ill . 
Of course Mr. Mallet will help you , my son ! cried the poor lady , eagerly . 
Oh , leave Mr. Mallet alone ! said Roderick . 
I have squeezed him dry it 's not my fault , at least , if I have n't ! Roderick , what have you done with all your money ? his mother demanded . 
Thrown it away ! It was no such great amount . 
I have done nothing this winter . 
Mary has said nothing ! cried Mrs. Hudson . 
Oh , she 's a fine girl ! Rowland said . 
Have you done anything that will hurt poor Mary ? Mrs. Hudson asked . 
I have only been thinking night and day of another woman ! Mrs. Hudson dropped helplessly into her seat again . 
Oh dear , dear , had n't we better go home ? Not to get out of her way ! Roderick said . 
She has started on a career of her own , and she does n't care a straw for me . 
She led me to believe that she would give this up , and break short off , and keep herself free and sacred and pure for me . 
This was a great honor , and you may believe that I valued it . 
It turned my head , and I lived only to see my happiness come to pass . 
She did everything to encourage me to hope it would everything that her infernal coquetry and falsity could suggest . 
Oh , I say , this is too much ! Rowland broke out . 
Do you defend her ? Roderick cried , with a renewal of his passion . 
Since he was hurt , he must cry out since he was in pain , he must scatter his pain abroad . 
The great and characteristic point with him was the perfect absoluteness of his own emotions and experience . 
All this , to Rowland , was ancient history , but his perception of it stirred within him afresh , at the sight of Roderick's sense of having been betrayed . 
She never meant to be sincere she never dreamed she could be . 
She 's a ravenous flirt , and why a flirt is a flirt is more than I can tell you . 
I can't understand playing with those matters for me they 're serious , whether I take them up or lay them down . 
You were right you 're always right . 
She 's as cold and false and heartless as she 's beautiful , and she has sold her heartless beauty to the highest bidder . 
You believed in her too much at first , he declared , and you believe in her too little now . 
Roderick looked at him with eyes almost lurid , beneath lowering brows . 
She is an angel , then , after all ? that 's what you want to prove ! he cried . 
There was no space in Mrs. Hudson's tiny maternal mind for complications of feeling , and one emotion existed only by turning another over flat and perching on top of it . 
She was evidently not following Roderick at all in his dusky aberrations . 
Had n't you better forget all this , my dear ? Mrs. Hudson said . 
Had n't you better just quietly attend to your work ? Work , madame ? cried Roderick . 
I can't work I have n't worked all winter . 
If I were fit for anything , this sentimental collapse would have been just the thing to cure me of my apathy and break the spell of my idleness . 
But there 's a perfect vacuum here ! And he tapped his forehead . 
It 's bigger than ever it grows bigger every hour ! I 'm sure you have made a beautiful likeness of your poor little mother , said Mrs. Hudson , coaxingly . 
But here was a concrete fact , lucidly stated , and poor Mrs. Hudson , for a moment , looked it in the face . 
She repeated her son's words a third time with a gasping murmur , and then , suddenly , she burst into tears . 
Roderick went to her , sat down beside her , put his arm round her , fixed his eyes coldly on the floor , and waited for her to weep herself out . 
She leaned her head on his shoulder and sobbed broken heartedly . 
She said not a word , she made no attempt to scold but the desolation of her tears was overwhelming . 
It lasted some time too long for Rowland's courage . 
He had stood silent , wishing simply to appear very respectful but the elation that was mentioned a while since had utterly ebbed , and he found his situation intolerable . 
He walked away not , perhaps , on tiptoe , but with a total absence of bravado in his tread . 
The next day , while he was at home , the servant brought him the card of a visitor . 
He read with surprise the name of Mrs. Hudson , and hurried forward to meet her . 
He found her in his sitting room , leaning on the arm of her son and looking very pale , her eyes red with weeping , and her lips tightly compressed . 
Her advent puzzled him , and it was not for some time that he began to understand the motive of it . 
Roderick's countenance threw no light upon it but Roderick's countenance , full of light as it was , in a way , itself , had never thrown light upon anything . 
He had not been in Rowland's rooms for several weeks , and he immediately began to look at those of his own works that adorned them . 
He lost himself in silent contemplation . 
Mrs. Hudson had evidently armed herself with dignity , and , so far as she might , she meant to be impressive . 
Her success may be measured by the fact that Rowland's whole attention centred in the fear of seeing her begin to weep . 
She told him that she had come to him for practical advice she begged to remind him that she was a stranger in the land . 
Roderick says he does n't know , he does n't care , Mrs. Hudson said he leaves it entirely to you . 
But Rowland swallowed all hilarity and all sarcasm , and let himself seriously consider Mrs. Hudson's petition . 
His wits , however , were but indifferently at his command they were dulled by his sense of the inexpressible change in Mrs. Hudson's attitude . 
Her visit was evidently intended as a formal reminder of the responsiblities Rowland had worn so lightly . 
You know we have very little money to spend , she said , as Rowland remained silent . 
Roderick tells me that he has debts and nothing at all to pay them with . 
He says I must write to Mr. Striker to sell my house for what it will bring , and send me out the money . 
When the money comes I must give it to him . 
I 'm sure I don't know I never heard of anything so dreadful ! My house is all I have . 
But that is all Roderick will say . 
We must be very economical . 
Rowland turned to Roderick and spoke like a school master . 
Come away from those statues , and sit down here and listen to me ! Roderick started , but obeyed with the most graceful docility . 
What do you propose to your mother to do ? Rowland asked . 
Propose ? said Roderick , absently . 
Oh , I propose nothing . 
, and for an instant an imprecation rose to Rowland's lips . 
But he checked it , and he was afterwards glad he had done so . 
You must do something , he said . 
Choose , select , decide ! My dear Rowland , how you talk ! Roderick cried . 
The very point of the matter is that I can't do anything . 
I will do as I 'm told , but I don't call that doing . 
We must leave Rome , I suppose , though I don't see why . 
We have got no money , and you have to pay money on the railroads . 
Mrs. Hudson surreptitiously wrung her hands . 
Listen to him , please ! she cried . 
Not leave Rome , when we have staid here later than any Christians ever did before ! It 's this dreadful place that has made us so unhappy . 
That 's very true , said Roderick , serenely . 
If I had not come to Rome , I would n't have risen , and if I had not risen , I should n't have fallen . 
Fallen fallen ! murmured Mrs. Hudson . 
Just hear him ! I will do anything you say , Rowland , Roderick added . 
I will do anything you want . 
I have not been unkind to my mother have I , mother ? I was unkind yesterday , without meaning it for after all , all that had to be said . 
Murder will out , and my low spirits can't be hidden . 
But we talked it over and made it up , did n't we ? It seemed to me we did . 
Let Rowland decide it , mother whatever he suggests will be the right thing . 
And Roderick , who had hardly removed his eyes from the statues , got up again and went back to look at them . 
Mrs. Hudson fixed her eyes upon the floor in silence . 
Rowland had received a few days before a letter from a lady of his acquaintance , a worthy Scotswoman domiciled in a villa upon one of the olive covered hills near Florence . 
She was now proposing to make a visit to that exhilarating city , and she desired to turn an honest penny by sub letting for a few weeks her historic Italian chambers . 
The terms on which she occupied them enabled her to ask a rent almost jocosely small , and she begged Rowland to do what she called a little genteel advertising for her . 
He dwelt upon the fact that she would strike a truce with tables d'hote and have a cook of her own , amenable possibly to instruction in the Northampton mysteries . 
He had touched a tender chord Mrs. Hudson became almost cheerful . 
While Rowland set forth his case Roderick was slowly walking round the magnificent Adam , with his hands in his pockets . 
Rowland waited for him to manifest an interest in their discussion , but the statue seemed to fascinate him and he remained calmly heedless . 
Rowland was a practical man he possessed conspicuously what is called the sense of detail . 
He entered into Mrs. Hudson's position minutely , and told her exactly why it seemed good that she should remove immediately to the Florentine villa . 
She received his advice with great frigidity , looking hard at the floor and sighing , like a person well on her guard against an insidious optimism . 
But she had nothing better to propose , and Rowland received her permission to write to his friend that he had let the rooms . 
Roderick assented to this decision without either sighs or smiles . 
A Florentine villa is a good thing ! he said . 
I am at your service . 
I 'm sure I hope you 'll get better there , moaned his mother , gathering her shawl together . 
Roderick laid one hand on her arm and with the other pointed to Rowland's statues . 
Better or worse , remember this I did those things ! he said . 
Mrs. Hudson gazed at them vaguely , and Rowland said , Remember it yourself ! They are horribly good ! said Roderick . 
Rowland solemnly shrugged his shoulders it seemed to him that he had nothing more to say . 
But as the others were going , a last light pulsation of the sense of undischarged duty led him to address to Roderick a few words of parting advice . 
You 'll find the Villa Pandolfini very delightful , very comfortable , he said . 
You ought to be very contented there . 
Whether you work or whether you loaf , it 's a place for an artist to be happy in . 
I hope you will work . 
I hope I may ! said Roderick with a magnificent smile . 
When we meet again , have something to show me . 
When we meet again ? Where the deuce are you going ? Roderick demanded . 
Oh , I hardly know over the Alps . 
Over the Alps ! You 're going to leave me ? Roderick cried . 
Rowland had most distinctly meant to leave him , but his resolution immediately wavered . 
He glanced at Mrs. Hudson and saw that her eyebrows were lifted and her lips parted in soft irony . 
She seemed to accuse him of a craven shirking of trouble , to demand of him to repair his cruel havoc in her life by a solemn renewal of zeal . 
But Roderick's expectations were the oddest ! Such as they were , Rowland asked himself why he should n't make a bargain with them . 
You desire me to go with you ? he asked . 
I don't pretend to say the future is a dead blank . 
But without you it 's not a blank it 's certain damnation ! Mercy , mercy ! murmured Mrs. Hudson . 
Rowland made an effort to stand firm , and for a moment succeeded . 
But at these words his face changed formidably he flushed and scowled , and all his passion returned . 
Try to work ! he cried . 
If the future was a blank to Roderick , it was hardly less so to himself . 
He had at moments a lively foreboding of impending calamity . 
He paid it no especial deference , but it made him feel indisposed to take the future into his account . 
The Villa Pandolfini stood directly upon a small grass grown piazza , on the top of a hill which sloped straight from one of the gates of Florence . 
Mrs. Hudson's rooms opened into a small garden supported on immense substructions , which were planted on the farther side of the hill , as it sloped steeply away . 
This garden was a charming place . 
The rooms themselves were as high as chapels and as cool as royal sepulchres . 
Silence , peace , and security seemed to abide in the ancient house and make it an ideal refuge for aching hearts . 
She smiled at everything in life , especially the things she did n't like and which kept her talent for mendacity in healthy exercise . 
A glance , a word , a motion was sufficient to make her show her teeth at you like a cheerful she wolf . 
The life at the Villa Pandolfini , when it had fairly defined itself , was tranquil and monotonous , but it might have borrowed from exquisite circumstance an absorbing charm . 
If a sensible shadow rested upon it , this was because it had an inherent vice it was feigning a repose which it very scantily felt . 
The change in question had done nothing of the sort , and his companions had , at least , the comfort of their perspicacity . 
An essential spring had dried up within him , and there was no visible spiritual law for making it flow again . 
The most that one could do , however , was to wait grimly and doggedly , suppressing an imprecation as , from time to time , one looked at one's watch . 
An attitude of positive urbanity toward life was not to be expected it was doing one's duty to hold one's tongue and keep one's hands off one's own windpipe , and other people's . 
Roderick had long silences , fits of profound lethargy , almost of stupefaction . 
He would gather a dozen books about him , tumble them out on the ground , take one into his lap , and leave it with the pages unturned . 
These moods would alternate with hours of extreme restlessness , during which he mysteriously absented himself . 
He bore the heat of the Italian summer like a salamander , and used to start off at high noon for long walks over the hills . 
He often went down into Florence , rambled through her close , dim streets , and lounged away mornings in the churches and galleries . 
On many of these occasions Rowland bore him company , for they were the times when he was most like his former self . 
Before Michael Angelo's statues and the pictures of the early Tuscans , he quite forgot his own infelicities , and picked up the thread of his old aesthetic loquacity . 
He had a particular fondness for Andrea del Sarto , and affirmed that if he had been a painter he would have taken the author of the Madonna del Sacco for his model . 
He found in Florence some of his Roman friends , and went down on certain evenings to meet them . 
More than once he asked Mary Garland to go with him into town , and showed her the things he most cared for . 
His eye was heavy and his hand cold , and his mother put up a secret prayer that he might be induced to see a doctor . 
On the whole , and most of the time , he was a sad spectacle he looked so hopelessly idle . 
Talking with him was like skating on thin ice , and his companions had a constant mental vision of spots designated dangerous . 
This was a difficult time for Rowland he said to himself that he would endure it to the end , but that it must be his last adventure of the kind . 
She never phrased her accusations , but he felt that in the unillumined void of the poor lady's mind they loomed up like vaguely outlined monsters . 
They made their way to the softest spot in his conscience and kept it chronically aching . 
If Mrs. Hudson had been loquacious and vulgar , he would have borne even a less valid persecution with greater fortitude . 
He felt like a reckless trustee who has speculated with the widow's mite , and is haunted with the reflection of ruin that he sees in her tearful eyes . 
He did everything conceivable to be polite to Mrs. Hudson , and to treat her with distinguished deference . 
Perhaps his exasperated nerves made him overshoot the mark , and rendered his civilities a trifle peremptory . 
But Mary Garland had helped him before , and she helped him now helped him not less than he had assured himself she would when he found himself drifting to Florence . 
Yet her help was rendered in the same unconscious , unacknowledged fashion as before there was no explicit change in their relations . 
Rowland asked no questions about it he preferred not to know what had passed between them . 
Was the engagement broken ? Rowland wondered , yet without asking . 
But it hardly mattered , for if , as was more than probable , Miss Garland had peremptorily released her cousin , her own heart had by no means recovered its liberty . 
There are women whose love is care taking and patronizing , and who rather prefer a weak man because he gives them a comfortable sense of strength . 
If it was to grow cold , it would be because disenchantment had become total and won the battle at each successive point . 
It was partly , Rowland fancied , that there were occasional lapses , deep and sweet , in her sense of injury . 
This happened in the court of the villa the large gray quadrangle , overstretched , from edge to edge of the red tiled roof , by the soft Italian sky . 
Mary had felt on the spot the sovereign charm of the place it was reflected in her deeply intelligent glance , and Rowland immediately accused himself of not having done the villa justice . 
Miss Garland took a mighty fancy to Florence , and used to look down wistfully at the towered city from the windows and garden . 
Roderick having now no pretext for not being her cicerone , Rowland was no longer at liberty , as he had been in Rome , to propose frequent excursions to her . 
Roderick's own invitations , however , were not frequent , and Rowland more than once ventured to introduce her to a gallery or a church . 
Often , when she had begun with looking intently at a picture , her silence , after an interval , made him turn and glance at her . 
He usually found that if she was looking at the picture still , she was not seeing it . 
Her eyes were fixed , but her thoughts were wandering , and an image more vivid than any that Raphael or Titian had drawn had superposed itself upon the canvas . 
She asked fewer questions than before , and seemed to have lost heart for consulting guide books and encyclopaedias . 
From time to time , however , she uttered a deep , full murmur of gratification . 
Florence in midsummer was perfectly void of travelers , and the dense little city gave forth its aesthetic aroma with a larger frankness , as the nightingale sings when the listeners have departed . 
The churches were deliciously cool , but the gray streets were stifling , and the great , dove tailed polygons of pavement as hot to the tread as molten lava . 
Rowland , who suffered from intense heat , would have found all this uncomfortable in solitude but Florence had never charmed him so completely as during these midsummer strolls with his preoccupied companion . 
One evening they had arranged to go on the morrow to the Academy . 
Miss Garland kept her appointment , but as soon as she appeared , Rowland saw that something painful had befallen her . 
She was doing her best to look at her ease , but her face bore the marks of tears . 
Rowland told her that he was afraid she was ill , and that if she preferred to give up the visit to Florence he would submit with what grace he might . 
She hesitated a moment , and then said she preferred to adhere to their plan . 
I am not well , she presently added , but it 's a moral malady , and in such cases I consider your company beneficial . 
But if I am to be your doctor , said Rowland , you must tell me how your illness began . 
I can tell you very little . 
It began with Mrs. Hudson being unjust to me , for the first time in her life . 
And now I am already better ! I mention this incident because it confirmed an impression of Rowland's from which he had derived a certain consolation . 
She was fond of the young girl , but she had valued her primarily , during the last two years , as a kind of assistant priestess at Roderick's shrine . 
Roderick had honored her by asking her to become his wife , but that poor Mary had any rights in consequence Mrs. Hudson was quite incapable of perceiving . 
Her sentiment on the subject was of course not very vigorously formulated , but she was unprepared to admit that Miss Garland had any ground for complaint . 
Roderick was very unhappy that was enough , and Mary's duty was to join her patience and her prayers to those of his doting mother . 
She was ready to drop dead in Roderick's service , and she was quite capable of seeing her companion falter and grow faint , without a tremor of compassion . 
The party at Villa Pandolfini used to sit in the garden in the evenings , which Rowland almost always spent with them . 
Roderick's contributions to the conversation were indeed always so fantastic that , though half the time they wearied him unspeakably , Rowland made an effort to treat them humorously . 
With Rowland alone Roderick talked a great deal more often about things related to his own work , or about artistic and aesthetic matters in general . 
He talked as well as ever , or even better but his talk always ended in a torrent of groans and curses . 
When this current set in , Rowland straightway turned his back or stopped his ears , and Roderick now witnessed these movements with perfect indifference . 
All this was not enlivening , but with an even , muffled tread the days followed each other , and brought the month of August to a close . 
Rowland had found the two ladies alone at the villa , and he had sat with them for an hour . 
It 's a night to remember on one's death bed ! Miss Garland exclaimed . 
They were silent after this , for some time , but at last Rowland addressed certain idle words to Miss Garland . 
She made no reply , and he turned to look at her . 
She had the air , for the moment , of a little old malevolent fairy . 
Miss Garland , Rowland perceived in an instant , was not absolutely motionless a tremor passed through her figure . 
She was weeping , or on the point of weeping , and she could not trust herself to speak . 
Rowland left his place and wandered to another part of the garden , wondering at the motive of her sudden tears . 
Of women's sobs in general he had a sovereign dread , but these , somehow , gave him a certain pleasure . 
When he returned to his place Miss Garland had raised her head and banished her tears . 
She came away from Mrs. Hudson , and they stood for a short time leaning against the parapet . 
It seems to you very strange , I suppose , said Rowland , that there should be any trouble in such a world as this . 
I used to think , she answered , that if any trouble came to me I would bear it like a stoic . 
But that was at home , where things don't speak to us of enjoyment as they do here . 
Here it is such a mixture one does n't know what to choose , what to believe . 
We are made , I suppose , both to suffer and to enjoy . 
As you say , it 's a mixture . 
Just now and here , it seems a peculiarly strange one . 
But we must take things in turn . 
His words had a singular aptness , for he had hardly uttered them when Roderick came out from the house , evidently in his darkest mood . 
He stood for a moment gazing hard at the view . 
It 's a very beautiful night , my son , said his mother , going to him timidly , and touching his arm . 
He passed his hand through his hair and let it stay there , clasping his thick locks . 
Beautiful ? he cried of course it 's beautiful ! Everything is beautiful everything is insolent , defiant , atrocious with beauty . 
I came expressly to tell you that you need n't trouble yourselves any longer to wait for something to turn up . 
Nothing will turn up ! It 's all over ! I said when I came here I would give it a chance . 
I have given it a chance . 
Have n't I , eh ? Have n't I , Rowland ? It 's no use the thing 's a failure ! Do with me now what you please . 
I recommend you to set me up there at the end of the garden and shoot me . 
I feel strongly inclined , said Rowland gravely , to go and get my revolver . 
Oh , mercy on us , what language ! cried Mrs. Hudson . 
Why not ? Roderick went on . 
This would be a lovely night for it , and I should be a lucky fellow to be buried in this garden . 
But bury me alive , if you prefer . 
Take me back to Northampton . 
Roderick , will you really come ? cried his mother . 
Oh yes , I 'll go ! I might as well be there as anywhere reverting to idiocy and living upon alms . 
I can do nothing with all this perhaps I should really like Northampton . 
If I 'm to vegetate for the rest of my days , I can do it there better than here . 
Oh , come home , come home , Mrs. Hudson said , and we shall all be safe and quiet and happy . 
My dearest son , come home with your poor mother ! Let us go , then , and go quickly ! Mrs. Hudson flung herself upon his neck for gratitude . 
We 'll go to morrow ! she cried . 
The Lord is very good to me ! Mary Garland said nothing to this but she looked at Rowland , and her eyes seemed to contain a kind of alarmed appeal . 
Rowland noted it with exultation , but even without it he would have broken into an eager protest . 
Are you serious , Roderick ? he demanded . 
I can't ! I have come to that ! Let me resist , then , said Rowland . 
Go home as you are now ? I can't stand by and see it . 
It may have been true that Roderick had lost his sense of humor , but he scratched his head with a gesture that was almost comical in its effect . 
You are a queer fellow ! I should think I would disgust you horribly . 
Stay another year , Rowland simply said . 
Doing nothing ? You shall do something . 
I am responsible for your doing something . 
To whom are you responsible ? Rowland , before replying , glanced at Miss Garland , and his glance made her speak quickly . 
Not to me ! I 'm responsible to myself , Rowland declared . 
My poor , dear fellow ! said Roderick . 
It 's out of all nature keeping him here . 
When we 're in a poor way , surely our own dear native land is the place for us . 
Do leave us to ourselves , sir ! This just failed of being a dismissal in form , and Rowland bowed his head to it . 
Roderick was silent for some moments then , suddenly , he covered his face with his two hands . 
Set me down where nature is coarse and flat , and men and manners are vulgar . 
There must be something awfully ugly in Germany . 
Pack me off there ! Rowland answered that if he wished to leave Italy the thing might be arranged he would think it over and submit a proposal on the morrow . 
Switzerland , of course , was not ugly , but one could not have everything . 
Mrs. Hudson neither thanked him nor assented but she wept and packed her trunks . 
This theory was not vitiated by something she said to him on the day before that on which Mrs. Hudson had arranged to leave Florence . 
Cousin Sarah , the other evening , she said , asked you to please leave us . 
I think she hardly knew what she was saying , and I hope you have not taken offense . 
By no means but I honestly believe that my leaving you would contribute greatly to Mrs. Hudson's comfort . 
I can be your hidden providence , you know I can watch you at a distance , and come upon the scene at critical moments . 
Miss Garland looked for a moment at the ground and then , with sudden earnestness , I beg you to come with us ! she said . 
It need hardly be added that after this Rowland went with them . 
The Princess Casamassima Rowland had a very friendly memory of a little mountain inn , accessible with moderate trouble from Lucerne , where he had once spent a blissful ten days . 
The inn of which I speak presented striking analogies with a cow stable but in spite of this circumstance , it was crowded with hungry tourists . 
It stood in a high , shallow valley , with flower strewn Alpine meadows sloping down to it from the base of certain rugged rocks whose outlines were grotesque against the evening sky . 
He remembered all this on leaving Florence with his friends , and he reflected that , as the midseason was over , accommodations would be more ample , and charges more modest . 
He communicated with his old friend the landlord , and , while September was yet young , his companions established themselves under his guidance in the grassy valley . 
He had crossed the Saint Gothard Pass with them , in the same carriage . 
It was impossible not to enjoy the magnificent scenery of the Apennines and the Italian Alps , and there was a tacit agreement among the travelers to abstain from sombre allusions . 
The effect of this delicate compact seemed excellent it ensured them a week's intellectual sunshine . 
Roderick sat and gazed out of the window with a fascinated stare , and with a perfect docility of attitude . 
He concerned himself not a particle about the itinerary , or about any of the wayside arrangements he took no trouble , and he gave none . 
He assented to everything that was proposed , talked very little , and led for a week a perfectly contemplative life . 
One day , in the afternoon , the two young men took a long stroll together . 
Rowland had never known anything so divinely soothing as the dreamy softness of that early autumn afternoon . 
Roderick lay observing it all with his arms thrown back and his hands under his head . 
This suits me , he said I could be happy here and forget everything . 
Why not stay here forever ? He kept his position for a long time and seemed lost in his thoughts . 
Rowland spoke to him , but he made vague answers at last he closed his eyes . 
It seemed to Rowland , also , a place to stay in forever a place for perfect oblivion of the disagreeable . 
Suddenly Roderick turned over on his face , and buried it in his arms . 
Pity me , sir pity me ! he presently cried . 
Look at this lovely world , and think what it must be to be dead to it ! Dead ? said Rowland . 
Death of that sort is very near to resurrection . 
It 's too horrible , Roderick went on it has all come over me here tremendously ! If I were not ashamed , I could shed a bushel of tears . 
Something in my heart seemed suddenly to open and let in a flood of beauty and desire . 
I know what I have lost , and I think it horrible ! Mind you , I know it , I feel it ! Remember that hereafter . 
Don't say that he was stupefied and senseless that his perception was dulled and his aspiration dead . 
I never have been saner . 
I don't want to be bad company , and in this beautiful spot , at this delightful hour , it seems an outrage to break the charm . 
But I am bidding farewell to Italy , to beauty , to honor , to life ! I only want to assure you that I know what I lose . 
I know it in every pulse of my heart ! Here , where these things are all loveliest , I take leave of them . 
Mary Garland walked a great deal , but she remained near the carriage to be with Mrs. Hudson . 
Rowland remained near it to be with Miss Garland . 
He trudged by her side up that magnificent ascent from Italy , and found himself regretting that the Alps were so low , and that their trudging was not to last a week . 
Rowland knew that she loved nature , but he was struck afresh with the vivacity of her observation of it , and with her knowledge of plants and stones . 
At that season the wild flowers had mostly departed , but a few of them lingered , and Miss Garland never failed to espy them in their outlying corners . 
They interested her greatly she was charmed when they were old friends , and charmed even more when they were new . 
She displayed a very light foot in going in quest of them , and had soon covered the front seat of the carriage with a tangle of strange vegetation . 
Rowland of course was alert in her service , and he gathered for her several botanical specimens which at first seemed inaccessible . 
She had just scrambled up a grassy slope near him , and had seen that the flower was out of reach . 
He was the least brutal of men , but for a moment he was perfectly indifferent to her suffering . 
I can get the flower , he called to her . 
Will you trust me ? I don't want it I would rather not have it ! she cried . 
Will you trust me ? he repeated , looking at her . 
She looked at him and then at the flower he wondered whether she would shriek and swoon , as Miss Light had done . 
I wish it were something better ! she said simply and then stood watching him , while he began to clamber . 
He managed to stick it into his buttonhole and then he contrived to descend . 
There was more than one chance for an ugly fall , but he evaded them all . 
It was doubtless not gracefully done , but it was done , and that was all he had proposed to himself . 
He was red in the face when he offered Miss Garland the flower , and she was visibly pale . 
She had watched him without moving . 
All this had passed without the knowledge of Mrs. Hudson , who was dozing beneath the hood of the carriage . 
Mary Garland's eyes did not perhaps display that ardent admiration which was formerly conferred by the queen of beauty at a tournament but they expressed something in which Rowland found his reward . 
Why did you do that ? she asked , gravely . 
He felt that it was physically possible to say , Because I love you ! but that it was not morally possible . 
He lowered his pitch and answered , simply , Because I wanted to do something for you . 
Suppose you had fallen , said Miss Garland . 
I believed I would not fall . 
And you believed it , I think . 
I simply trusted you , as you asked me . 
Quod erat demonstrandum ! cried Rowland . 
I think you know Latin . 
Mrs. Hudson was obliged to intermit her suspicions of the deleterious atmosphere of the old world , and to acknowledge the edifying purity of the breezes of Engelthal . 
In that sad half hour among the Italian olives there had been such a fierce sincerity in his tone , that Rowland began to abdicate the critical attitude . 
He began to feel that it was essentially vain to appeal to the poor fellow's will there was no will left its place was an impotent void . 
Roderick said frankly that Switzerland made him less miserable than Italy , and the Alps seemed less to mock at his enforced leisure than the Apennines . 
Rowland sometimes walked with him though Roderick never invited him , he seemed duly grateful for his society . 
He would have still said , had you questioned him , that Roderick's condition was a mood certainly a puzzling one . 
It might last yet for many a weary hour but it was a long lane that had no turning . 
Roderick's blues would not last forever . 
Rowland's interest in Miss Garland's relations with her cousin was still profoundly attentive , and perplexed as he was on all sides , he found nothing transparent here . 
They sat together and strolled together , and Miss Garland often read aloud to him . 
I don't know , Roderick said , I don't heed the sense . 
Miss Garland heard this , and Rowland looked at her . 
She looked at Roderick sharply and with a little blush . 
I listen to Mary , Roderick continued , for the sake of her voice . 
It 's distractingly sweet ! At this Miss Garland's blush deepened , and she looked away . 
Rowland , in Florence , as we know , had suffered his imagination to wander in the direction of certain conjectures which the reader may deem unflattering to Miss Garland's constancy . 
And certainly if her passion had taken this course no generous critic would utterly condemn her . 
She had been neglected , ignored , forsaken , treated with a contempt which no girl of a fine temper could endure . 
This attitude had often an exquisite beauty of its own , but Rowland deemed that he had solid reason to believe it never could be Mary Garland's . 
She was not a passive creature she was not soft and meek and grateful for chance bounties . 
Once Rowland passed an angry day . 
He had dreamed it was the most insubstantial of dreams that she had given him the right to believe that she looked to him to transmute her discontent . 
He would go away and make an end of it . 
Nevertheless , some three days afterward , the opportunity presenting itself , he deliberately broached the subject with Roderick . 
He knew this was inconsistent and faint hearted it was indulgence to the fingers that itched to handle forbidden fruit . 
But he said to himself that it was really more logical to be inconsistent than the reverse for they had formerly discussed these mysteries very candidly . 
He may perhaps be deemed too narrow a casuist , but we have repeated more than once that he was solidly burdened with a conscience . 
I imagine , he said to Roderick , that you are not sorry , at present , to have allowed yourself to be dissuaded from making a final rupture with Miss Garland . 
Oh yes , said Roderick , I remember what you said you made it a kind of personal favor to yourself that I should remain faithful . 
I consented , but afterwards , when I thought of it , your attitude greatly amused me . 
One man puts his selfishness into one thing , and one into another . 
It would have utterly marred my comfort to see Miss Garland in low spirits . 
But you liked her you admired her , eh ? So you intimated . 
It was your originality then to do you justice you have a great deal , of a certain sort to wish her happiness secured in just that fashion . 
Many a man would have liked better himself to make the woman he admired happy , and would have welcomed her low spirits as an opening for sympathy . 
You were awfully queer about it . 
So be it ! said Rowland . 
When she arrived in Rome , I found I did n't care for her , and I honestly proposed that we should have no humbug about it . 
Mary Garland is all that she ever was more than all . 
But I don't care for her ! I don't care for anything , and I don't find myself inspired to make an exception in her favor . 
The only difference is that I don't care now , whether I care for her or not . 
Oh , you 're in love ! said Rowland , not very logically . 
It must be confessed , at any cost , that this assertion was made for the sole purpose of hearing Roderick deny it . 
But it quite failed of its aim . 
Roderick gave a liberal shrug of his shoulders and an irresponsible toss of his head . 
Call it what you please ! I am past caring for names . 
Rowland had not only been illogical , he had also been slightly disingenuous . 
He did not believe that his companion was in love he had argued the false to learn the true . 
He had said , shortly before , that her voice was sweet to his ear and this was a promising beginning . 
So Rowland reasoned , and invested Mary Garland with a still finer loveliness . 
He watched for signs that she rejoiced in Roderick's renewed acceptance of her society but it seemed to him that she was on her guard against interpreting it too largely . 
The other was the experience , in especial , of Rowland's what ? Here Rowland always paused , in perfect sincerity , to measure afresh his possible claim to the young girl's regard . 
What might he call it ? It had been more than civility and yet it had been less than devotion . 
It had spoken of a desire to serve , but it had said nothing of a hope of reward . 
Why , we are delighted that you are with us ! she answered . 
He was anything but satisfied with this it seemed to imply that she had forgotten that she had solemnly asked him to come . 
He reminded her of her request , and recalled the place and time . 
That evening on the terrace , late , after Mrs. Hudson had gone to bed , and Roderick being absent . 
She perfectly remembered , but the memory seemed to trouble her . 
I am afraid your kindness has been a great charge upon you , she said . 
You wanted very much to do something else . 
I wanted above all things to oblige you , and I made no sacrifice . 
But if I had made an immense one , it would be more than made up to me by any assurance that I have helped Roderick into a better mood . 
She was silent a moment , and then , Why do you ask me ? she said . 
You are able to judge quite as well as I. Rowland blushed he desired to justify himself in the most veracious manner . 
The truth is , he said , that I am afraid I care only in the second place for Roderick's holding up his head . 
What I care for in the first place is your happiness . 
I don't know why that should be , she answered . 
I have certainly done nothing to make you so much my friend . 
If you were to tell me you intended to leave us to morrow , I am afraid that I should not venture to ask you to stay . 
But whether you go or stay , let us not talk of Roderick ! But that , said Rowland , does n't answer my question . 
Is he better ? No ! she said , and turned away . 
He was careful not to tell her that he intended to leave them . 
I wonder where she is , he said , and what sort of a life she is leading her prince . 
Roderick at first made no response . 
He was watching a figure on the summit of some distant rocks , opposite to them . 
The figure was apparently descending into the valley , and in relief against the crimson screen of the western sky , it looked gigantic . 
Christina Light ? Roderick at last repeated , as if arousing himself from a reverie . 
She 's a humbug ! he presently exclaimed . 
But I have known worse ones . 
She disappointed me ! Roderick continued in the same tone . 
Had she , then , really given you hopes ? Oh , don't recall it ! Roderick cried . 
Why the devil should I think of it ? It was only three months ago , but it seems like ten years . 
His friend said nothing more , and after a while he went on of his own accord . 
I believed there was a future in it all ! She pleased me pleased me and when an artist such as I was is pleased , you know ! And he paused again . 
You never saw her as I did you never heard her in her great moments . 
But there is no use talking about that ! At first she would n't regard me seriously she chaffed me and made light of me . 
But at last I forced her to admit I was a great man . 
Think of that , sir ! Christina Light called me a great man . 
A great man was what she was looking for , and we agreed to find our happiness for life in each other . 
To please me she promised not to marry till I gave her leave . 
I was not in a marrying way myself , but it was damnation to think of another man possessing her . 
You have seen how she kept her promise ! When I learned it , it was as if the statue had suddenly cracked and turned hideous . 
She died for me , like that ! And he snapped his fingers . 
Was it wounded vanity , disappointed desire , betrayed confidence ? I am sure I don't know you certainly have some name for it . 
The poor girl did the best she could , said Rowland . 
If that was her best , so much the worse for her ! I have hardly thought of her these two months , but I have not forgiven her . 
Well , you may believe that you are avenged . 
I can't think of her as happy . 
I don't pity her ! said Roderick . 
Then he relapsed into silence , and the two sat watching the colossal figure as it made its way downward along the jagged silhouette of the rocks . 
Wait till we meet him on our own level , said Rowland , and perhaps he will not overtop us . 
Suddenly Roderick said , I would like to see her once more simply to look at her . 
I would not advise it , said Rowland . 
It was her beauty that did it ! Roderick went on . 
It was all her beauty in comparison , the rest was nothing . 
What befooled me was to think of it as my property ! And I had made it mine no one else had studied it as I had , no one else understood it . 
I would not advise it , Rowland repeated . 
That 's right , dear Rowland , said Roderick don't advise ! That 's no use now . 
The dusk meanwhile had thickened , and they had not perceived a figure approaching them across the open space in front of the house . 
Suddenly it stepped into the circle of light projected from the door and windows , and they beheld little Sam Singleton stopping to stare at them . 
He was the giant whom they had seen descending along the rocks . 
When this was made apparent Roderick was seized with a fit of intense hilarity it was the first time he had laughed in three months . 
Singleton , who carried a knapsack and walking staff , received from Rowland the friendliest welcome . 
He had been trudging over half Switzerland and making everywhere the most vivid pictorial notes . 
The nights were cold , and our friends , with three or four other chance sojourners , sat in doors over a fire of logs . 
He had been pedestrianizing for six weeks , and he was glad to rest awhile at Engelthal . 
It was an economic repose , however , for he sallied forth every morning , with his sketching tools on his back , in search of material for new studies . 
Roderick's hilarity , after the first evening , had subsided , and he watched the little painter's serene activity with a gravity that was almost portentous . 
Singleton , who was not in the secret of his personal misfortunes , still treated him with timid frankness as the rising star of American art . 
Are you always like this ? said Roderick , in almost sepulchral accents . 
Like this ? repeated Singleton , blinking confusedly , with an alarmed conscience . 
You remind me of a watch that never runs down . 
If one listens hard one hears you always tic tic , tic tic . 
Oh , I see , said Singleton , beaming ingenuously . 
You are very equable , yes . 
And do you find it pleasant to be equable ? Singleton turned and grinned more brightly , while he sucked the water from his camel's hair brush . 
Then , with a quickened sense of his indebtedness to a Providence that had endowed him with intrinsic facilities , Oh , delightful ! he exclaimed . 
Roderick stood looking at him a moment . 
Damnation ! he said at last , solemnly , and turned his back . 
One morning , shortly after this , Rowland and Roderick took a long walk . 
In coming from Lucerne they had approached their inn by this path , and , feeling that they knew it , had hitherto neglected it in favor of untrodden ways . 
But at last the list of these was exhausted , and Rowland proposed the walk to Engelberg as a novelty . 
The place is half bleak and half pastoral a huge white monastery rises abruptly from the green floor of the valley and complicates its picturesqueness with an element rare in Swiss scenery . 
Roderick went off alone , and his companion after a while bent his steps to the monasterial church . 
The surprise on Christina's part , for an instant , was equal , and at first she seemed disposed to turn away without letting it give place to a greeting . 
The prince , however , saluted gravely , and then Christina , in silence , put out her hand . 
Rowland immediately asked whether they were staying at Engelberg , but Christina only looked at him without speaking . 
Do let us leave this hideous edifice , she said there are things here that set one's teeth on edge . 
Then she glanced about her and observed , against the wall of the church , an old stone seat . 
She looked at Prince Casamassima a moment , and he smiled more intensely , Rowland thought , than the occasion demanded . 
I wish to sit here , she said , and speak to Mr. Mallet alone . 
At your pleasure , dear friend , said the prince . 
The tone of each was measured , to Rowland's ear but that of Christina was dry , and that of her husband was splendidly urbane . 
Rowland remembered that the Cavaliere Giacosa had told him that Mrs. Light's candidate was thoroughly a prince , and our friend wondered how he relished a peremptory accent . 
Casamassima was an Italian of the undemonstrative type , but Rowland nevertheless divined that , like other princes before him , he had made the acquaintance of the thing called compromise . 
Shall I come back ? he asked with the same smile . 
In half an hour , said Christina . 
In the clear outer light , Rowland's first impression of her was that she was more beautiful than ever . 
How came you here ? she asked . 
Are you staying in this place ? I am staying at Engelthal , some ten miles away I walked over . 
Are you alone ? I am with Mr. Hudson . 
Is he here with you ? He went half an hour ago to climb a rock for a view . 
And his mother and that young girl , where are they ? They also are at Engelthal . 
What do you do there ? What do you do here ? said Rowland , smiling . 
I count the minutes till my week is up . 
I hate mountains they depress me to death . 
I am sure Miss Garland likes them . 
She is very fond of them , I believe . 
You believe don't you know ? But I have given up trying to imitate Miss Garland , said Christina . 
You surely need imitate no one . 
Don't say that , she said gravely . 
So you have walked ten miles this morning ? And you are to walk back again ? Back again to supper . 
And Mr. Hudson too ? Mr. Hudson especially . 
He is a great walker . 
You men are happy ! Christina cried . 
I believe I should enjoy the mountains if I could do such things . 
It is sitting still and having them scowl down at you ! Prince Casamassina never rides . 
He only goes on a mule . 
He was carried up the Faulhorn on a litter . 
On a litter ? said Rowland . 
In one of those machines a chaise a porteurs like a woman . 
Rowland received this information in silence it was equally unbecoming to either to relish or deprecate its irony . 
Is Mr. Hudson to join you again ? Will he come here ? Christina asked . 
I shall soon begin to expect him . 
What shall you do when you leave Switzerland ? Christina continued . 
Shall you go back to Rome ? I rather doubt it . 
My plans are very uncertain . 
They depend upon Mr. Hudson , eh ? In a great measure . 
I want you to tell me about him . 
Is he still in that perverse state of mind that afflicted you so much ? Rowland looked at her mistrustfully , without answering . 
He was indisposed , instinctively , to tell her that Roderick was unhappy it was possible she might offer to help him back to happiness . 
She immediately perceived his hesitation . 
I see no reason why we should not be frank , she said . 
I should think we were excellently placed for that sort of thing . 
You remember that formerly I cared very little what I said , don't you ? Well , I care absolutely not at all now . 
I say what I please , I do what I please ! How did Mr. Hudson receive the news of my marriage ? Very badly , said Rowland . 
With rage and reproaches ? And as Rowland hesitated again With silent contempt ? I can tell you but little . 
He spoke to me on the subject , but I stopped him . 
I told him it was none of his business , or of mine . 
That was an excellent answer ! said Christina , softly . 
Yet it was a little your business , after those sublime protestations I treated you to . 
I was really very fine that morning , eh ? You do yourself injustice , said Rowland . 
I should be at liberty now to believe you were insincere . 
What does it matter now whether I was insincere or not ? I can't conceive of anything mattering less . 
I was very fine is n't it true ? You know what I think of you , said Rowland . 
And for fear of being forced to betray his suspicion of the cause of her change , he took refuge in a commonplace . 
Your mother , I hope , is well . 
Rowland was anxious for news of Mrs. Light's companion , and the natural course was frankly to inquire about him . 
And the Cavaliere Giacosa is well ? he asked . 
Christina hesitated , but she betrayed no other embarrassment . 
The Cavaliere has retired to his native city of Ancona , upon a pension , for the rest of his natural life . 
Had the Cavaliere received his commission ? And what do you do , Rowland continued , on leaving this place ? We go to Italy we go to Naples . 
She rose and stood silent a moment , looking down the valley . 
The figure of Prince Casamassima appeared in the distance , balancing his white umbrella . 
As her eyes rested upon it , Rowland imagined that he saw something deeper in the strange expression which had lurked in her face while he talked to her . 
It was the outward mark of her sacrificed ideal . 
Her eyes grew cold as she looked at her husband , and when , after a moment , she turned them upon Rowland , they struck him as intensely tragical . 
She half read his feelings , apparently , and she gave a beautiful , sad smile . 
I hope we may never meet again ! she said . 
And as Rowland gave her a protesting look You have seen me at my best . 
I wish to tell you solemnly , I was sincere ! I know appearances are against me , she went on quickly . 
There is a great deal I can't tell you . 
Perhaps you have guessed it I care very little . 
You know , at any rate , I did my best . 
Happiness ? I mean to cultivate rapture I mean to go in for bliss ineffable ! You remember I told you that I was , in part , the world's and the devil's . 
Now they have taken me all . 
It was their choice may they never repent ! I shall hear of you , said Rowland . 
You will hear of me . 
So long as she had been free to choose , she had esteemed him but from the moment she was forced to marry him she had detested him . 
You are going to Naples ? Rowland said to the prince by way of conversation . 
We are going to Paris , Christina interposed , slowly and softly . 
We are going to London . 
We are going to Vienna . 
We are going to St . 
Prince Casamassima dropped his eyes and fretted the earth with the point of his umbrella . 
While he engaged Rowland's attention Christina turned away . 
When Rowland glanced at her again he saw a change pass over her face she was observing something that was concealed from his own eyes by the angle of the church wall . 
In a moment Roderick stepped into sight . 
He stopped short , astonished his face and figure were jaded , his garments dusty . 
He looked at Christina from head to foot , and then , slowly , his cheek flushed and his eye expanded . 
Christina returned his gaze , and for some moments there was a singular silence . 
You don't look well ! Christina said at last . 
Roderick answered nothing he only looked and looked , as if she had been a statue . 
You are no less beautiful ! he presently cried . 
She turned away with a smile , and stood a while gazing down the valley Roderick stared at Prince Casamassima . 
Christina then put out her hand to Rowland . 
But he said nothing he only looked at her . 
Rowland at first had expected an outbreak of reproach , but it was evident that the danger was every moment diminishing . 
He was forgetting everything but her beauty , and as she stood there and let him feast upon it , Rowland was sure that she knew it . 
I won't say farewell to you , she said we shall meet again ! And she moved gravely away . 
Prince Casamassima took leave courteously of Rowland upon Roderick he bestowed a bow of exaggerated civility . 
Roderick appeared not to see it he was still watching Christina , as she passed over the grass . 
His eyes followed her until she reached the door of her inn . 
Here she stopped and looked back at him . 
Switzerland On the homeward walk , that evening , Roderick preserved a silence which Rowland allowed to make him uneasy . 
Early on the morrow Roderick , saying nothing of his intentions , started off on a walk Rowland saw him striding with light steps along the rugged path to Engelberg . 
He was absent all day and he gave no account of himself on his return . 
He said he was deadly tired , and he went to bed early . 
When he had left the room Miss Garland drew near to Rowland . 
I wish to ask you a question , she said . 
What happened to Roderick yesterday at Engelberg ? You have discovered that something happened ? Rowland answered . 
I am sure of it . 
Was it something painful ? I don't know how , at the present moment , he judges it . 
He met the Princess Casamassima . 
Thank you ! said Miss Garland , simply , and turned away . 
The conversation had been brief , but , like many small things , it furnished Rowland with food for reflection . 
When one is looking for symptoms one easily finds them . 
This was the first time Mary Garland had asked Rowland a question which it was in Roderick's power to answer , the first time she had frankly betrayed Roderick's reticence . 
Rowland ventured to think it marked an era . 
The next morning was sultry , and the air , usually so fresh at those altitudes , was oppressively heavy . 
To day , however , the white summits were invisible their heads were muffled in sullen clouds and the valleys beneath them curtained in dun colored mist . 
Rowland had a book in his pocket , and he took it out and opened it . 
But his page remained unturned his own thoughts were more importunate . 
These things were immensely appealing , and Rowland thought with infinite impatience of Roderick's having again encountered them . 
It required little imagination to apprehend that the young sculptor's condition had also appealed to Christina . 
His consummate indifference , his supreme defiance , would make him a magnificent trophy , and Christina had announced with sufficient distinctness that she had said good by to scruples . 
He felt conscious of a sudden collapse in his moral energy a current that had been flowing for two years with liquid strength seemed at last to pause and evaporate . 
Rowland looked away at the stagnant vapors on the mountains their dreariness seemed a symbol of the dreariness which his own generosity had bequeathed him . 
He turned to his book and tried to woo back patience , but it gave him cold comfort and he tossed it angrily away . 
He pulled his hat over his eyes , and tried to wonder , dispassionately , whether atmospheric conditions had not something to do with his ill humor . 
He remained for some time in this attitude , but was finally aroused from it by a singular sense that , although he had heard nothing , some one had approached him . 
He looked up and saw Roderick standing before him on the turf . 
His mood made the spectacle unwelcome , and for a moment he felt like uttering an uncivil speech . 
Roderick stood looking at him with an expression of countenance which had of late become rare . 
There was an unfamiliar spark in his eye and a certain imperious alertness in his carriage . 
Confirmed habit , with Rowland , came speedily to the front . 
What is it now ? he asked himself , and invited Roderick to sit down . 
Roderick had evidently something particular to say , and if he remained silent for a time it was not because he was ashamed of it . 
I would like you to do me a favor , he said at last . 
How much do you wish ? Rowland asked . 
I don't wish to be indiscreet , but may I ask what you propose to do with a thousand francs ? To go to Interlaken . 
And why are you going to Interlaken ? Roderick replied without a shadow of wavering , Because that woman is to be there . 
Rowland burst out laughing , but Roderick remained serenely grave . 
You have forgiven her , then ? said Rowland . 
Not a bit of it ! I don't understand . 
Neither do I. I only know that she is incomparably beautiful , and that she has waked me up amazingly . 
Besides , she asked me to come . 
She asked you ? Yesterday , in so many words . 
Ah , the jade ! Exactly . 
I am willing to take her for that . 
Rowland , who had been sitting erect , threw himself back on the grass and lay for some time staring up at the sky . 
At last , raising himself , Are you perfectly serious ? he asked . 
And your mother and cousin , meanwhile , are to remain here ? It will soon be getting very cold , you know . 
It does n't seem much like it to day . 
Very true but to day is a day by itself . 
There is nothing to prevent their going back to Lucerne . 
I depend upon your taking charge of them . 
At this Rowland reclined upon the grass again and again , after reflection , he faced his friend . 
How would you express , he asked , the character of the profit that you expect to derive from your excursion ? I see no need of expressing it . 
The proof of the pudding is in the eating ! The case is simply this . 
I desire immensely to be near Christina Light , and it is such a huge refreshment to find myself again desiring something , that I propose to drift with the current . 
As I say , she has waked me up , and it is possible something may come of it . 
She makes me feel as if I were alive again . 
This , and he glanced down at the inn , I call death ! That I am very grateful to hear . 
You really feel as if you might do something ? Don't ask too much . 
I only know that she makes my heart beat , makes me see visions . 
You feel encouraged ? I feel excited . 
You are really looking better . 
I am glad to hear it . 
Now that I have answered your questions , please to give me the money . 
For that purpose , I can't ! You can't ? It 's impossible . 
Your plan is rank folly . 
I can't help you in it . 
Roderick flushed a little , and his eye expanded . 
I will borrow what money I can , then , from Mary ! This was not viciously said it had simply the ring of passionate resolution . 
Instantly it brought Rowland to terms . 
He took a bunch of keys from his pocket and tossed it upon the grass . 
The little brass one opens my dressing case , he said . 
You will find money in it . 
Roderick let the keys lie something seemed to have struck him he looked askance at his friend . 
You are awfully gallant ! You certainly are not . 
Your proposal is an outrage . 
It 's a proof the more of my desire . 
If you have so much steam on , then , use it for something else . 
You say you are awake again . 
I am delighted only be so in the best sense . 
Is n't it very plain ? If you have the energy to desire , you have also the energy to reason and to judge . 
Roderick , plainly , did not relish this simple logic , and his eye grew angry as he listened to its echo . 
Oh , the devil ! he cried . 
Do you believe that hanging about Christina Light will do you any good ? Do you believe it won't ? In either case you should keep away from her . 
If it won't , it 's your duty and if it will , you can get on without it . 
Do me good ? cried Roderick . 
What do I want of 'good' what should I do with 'good' ? I want what she gives me , call it by what name you will . 
I want to ask no questions , but to take what comes and let it fill the impossible hours ! But I did n't come to discuss the matter . 
I have not the least desire to discuss it , said Rowland . 
I have never yet thought twice of accepting a favor of you , he said at last but this one sticks in my throat . 
It is not a favor I lend you the money only under compulsion . 
Well , then , I will take it only under compulsion ! Roderick exclaimed . 
And he sprang up abruptly and marched away . 
His words were ambiguous Rowland lay on the grass , wondering what they meant . 
Half an hour had not elapsed before Roderick reappeared , heated with rapid walking , and wiping his forehead . 
He flung himself down and looked at his friend with an eye which expressed something purer than bravado and yet baser than conviction . 
I have done my best ! he said . 
My mother is out of money she is expecting next week some circular notes from London . 
She had only ten francs in her pocket . 
Mary Garland gave me every sou she possessed in the world . 
It makes exactly thirty four francs . 
You asked Miss Garland ? cried Rowland . 
And told her your purpose ? I named no names . 
But she knew ! What did she say ? Not a syllable . 
She simply emptied her purse . 
Rowland turned over and buried his face in his arms . 
He felt a movement of irrepressible elation , and he barely stifled a cry of joy . 
Now , surely , Roderick had shattered the last link in the chain that bound Mary to him , and after this she would be free ! . 
When he turned about again , Roderick was still sitting there , and he had not touched the keys which lay on the grass . 
I don't know what is the matter with me , said Roderick , but I have an insurmountable aversion to taking your money . 
The matter , I suppose , is that you have a grain of wisdom left . 
No , it 's not that . 
It 's a kind of brute instinct . 
I find it extremely provoking ! He sat there for some time with his head in his hands and his eyes on the ground . 
His lips were compressed , and he was evidently , in fact , in a state of profound irritation . 
You have succeeded in making this thing excessively unpleasant ! he exclaimed . 
I am sorry , said Rowland , but I can't see it in any other way . 
That I believe , and I resent the range of your vision pretending to be the limit of my action . 
You can't feel for me nor judge for me , and there are certain things you know nothing about . 
I have suffered , sir ! Roderick went on with increasing emphasis . 
I have suffered damnable torments . 
I don't say that invidiously it 's your disposition , and you can't help it . 
But decidedly , there are certain things you know nothing about . 
Rowland listened to this outbreak with open eyes , and Roderick , if he had been less intent upon his own eloquence , would probably have perceived that he turned pale . 
These things what are they ? Rowland asked . 
They are women , principally , and what relates to women . 
Women for you , by what I can make out , mean nothing . 
You have no imagination no sensibility ! That 's a serious charge , said Rowland , gravely . 
I don't make it without proof ! And what is your proof ? Roderick hesitated a moment . 
The way you treated Christina Light . 
I call that grossly obtuse . 
Obtuse ? Rowland repeated , frowning . 
Thick skinned , beneath your good fortune . 
My good fortune ? There it is it 's all news to you ! You had pleased her . 
I don't say she was dying of love for you , but she took a fancy to you . 
We will let this pass ! said Rowland , after a silence . 
Oh , I don't insist . 
I have only her own word for it . 
She told you this ? You noticed , at least , I suppose , that she was not afraid to speak . 
I never repeated it , not because I was jealous , but because I was curious to see how long your ignorance would last if left to itself . 
I frankly confess it would have lasted forever . 
And yet I don't consider that my insensibility is proved . 
Upon my word , when I think of all this , your protest , as you call it , against my following Christina Light seems to me thoroughly offensive . 
Reality was never so consistent as that ! But Roderick sat there balancing his beautiful head , and the echoes of his strident accent still lingered along the half muffled mountain side . 
Rowland suddenly felt that the cup of his chagrin was full to overflowing , and his long gathered bitterness surged into the simple , wholesome passion of anger for wasted kindness . 
But he spoke without violence , and Roderick was probably at first far from measuring the force that lay beneath his words . 
You are incredibly ungrateful , he said . 
You are talking arrogant nonsense . 
I loved quite as well as you indeed , I think I may say rather better . 
I have been willing to give more than I received . 
I declare I don't understand ! I dare say not . 
You are not used to understanding such things you are not used to hearing me talk of my feelings . 
You are altogether too much taken up with your own . 
Be as much so as you please I have always respected your right . 
Only when I have kept myself in durance on purpose to leave you an open field , don't , by way of thanking me , come and call me an idiot . 
They were the sacrifices of friendship and they were easily made only I don't enjoy having them thrown back in my teeth . 
This was , under the circumstances , a sufficiently generous speech but Roderick was not in the humor to take it generously . 
Come , be more definite , he said . 
Let me know where it is the shoe has pinched . 
Rowland frowned if Roderick would not take generosity , he should have full justice . 
It 's a perpetual sacrifice , he said , to live with a perfect egotist . 
I am an egotist ? cried Roderick . 
a sudden violent curiosity for news about himself . 
You are selfish , said Rowland you think only of yourself and believe only in yourself . 
You regard other people only as they play into your own hands . 
But if one believed in you , as I have done , one paid a tax upon it . 
Roderick leaned his elbows on his knees , clasped his hands together , and crossed them , shadewise , over his eyes . 
In this attitude , for a moment , he sat looking coldly at his friend . 
So I have made you very uncomfortable ? he went on . 
You have often hated me ? Never . 
I should have parted company with you before coming to that . 
But you have wanted to part company , to bid me go my way and be hanged ! Repeatedly . 
Then I have had patience and forgiven you . 
Forgiven me , eh ? Suffering all the while ? Yes , you may call it suffering . 
Roderick picked up a blade of long grass and began to bite it Rowland was puzzled by his expression and manner . 
They seemed strangely cynical there was something revolting in his deepening calmness . 
I must have been hideous , Roderick presently resumed . 
I am not talking for your entertainment , said Rowland . 
For my edification ! As Roderick said these words there was not a ray of warmth in his brilliant eye . 
I have spoken for my own relief , Rowland went on , and so that you need never again go so utterly astray as you have done this morning . 
It has been a terrible mistake , then ? What his tone expressed was not willful mockery , but a kind of persistent irresponsibility which Rowland found equally exasperating . 
And all this time , Roderick continued , you have been in love ? Tell me the woman . 
Rowland felt an immense desire to give him a visible , palpable pang . 
Her name is Mary Garland , he said . 
The surprise was great Roderick colored as he had never done . 
Mary Garland ? Heaven forgive us ! Rowland observed the us Roderick threw himself back on the turf . 
The latter lay for some time staring at the sky . 
At last he sprang to his feet , and Rowland rose also , rejoicing keenly , it must be confessed , in his companion's confusion . 
For how long has this been ? Roderick demanded . 
Since I first knew her . 
Two years ! And you have never told her ? Never . 
You have told no one ? You are the first person . 
Why have you been silent ? Because of your engagement . 
But you have done your best to keep that up . 
That 's another matter ! It 's very strange ! said Roderick , presently . 
It 's like something in a novel . 
We need n't expatiate on it , said Rowland . 
All I wished to do was to rebut your charge that I am an abnormal being . 
All these months , while I was going on ! I wish you had mentioned it . 
I acted as was necessary , and that 's the end of it . 
You have a very high opinion of her ? The highest . 
I remember now your occasionally expressing it and my being struck with it . 
But I never dreamed you were in love with her . 
You hope , I suppose , that some day she may ? I should n't have offered to say so but since you ask me , I do . 
She idolizes me , and if she never were to see me again she would idolize my memory . 
This might be profound insight , and it might be profound fatuity . 
Rowland turned away he could not trust himself to speak . 
My indifference , my neglect of her , must have seemed to you horrible . 
Altogether , I must have appeared simply hideous . 
Do you really care , Rowland asked , what you appeared ? Certainly . 
I have been damnably stupid . 
Is n't an artist supposed to be a man of perceptions ? I am hugely disgusted . 
Well , you understand now , and we can start afresh . 
And yet , said Roderick , though you have suffered , in a degree , I don't believe you have suffered so much as some other men would have done . 
In such matters quantitative analysis is difficult . 
Roderick picked up his stick and stood looking at the ground . 
Nevertheless , I must have seemed hideous , he repeated hideous . 
He turned away , scowling , and Rowland offered no contradiction . 
They were both silent for some time , and at last Roderick gave a heavy sigh and began to walk away . 
Where are you going ? Rowland then asked . 
Oh , I don't care ! To walk you have given me something to think of . 
This seemed a salutary impulse , and yet Rowland felt a nameless perplexity . 
To have been so stupid damns me more than anything ! Roderick went on . 
Certainly , I can shut up shop now . 
Rowland felt in no smiling humor , and yet , in spite of himself , he could almost have smiled at the very consistency of the fellow . 
It was egotism still aesthetic disgust at the graceless contour of his conduct , but never a hint of simple sorrow for the pain he had given . 
Rowland let him go , and for some moments stood watching him . 
Suddenly Mallet became conscious of a singular and most illogical impulse a desire to stop him , to have another word with him not to lose sight of him . 
He called him and Roderick turned . 
I should like to go with you , said Rowland . 
I am fit only to be alone . 
I am damned ! You had better not think of it at all , Rowland cried , than think in that way . 
There is only one way . 
I have been hideous ! And he broke off and marched away with his long , elastic step , swinging his stick . 
Rowland watched him and at the end of a moment called to him . 
Roderick stopped and looked at him in silence , and then abruptly turned , and disappeared below the crest of a hill . 
Rowland passed the remainder of the day uncomfortably . 
He was half irritated , half depressed he had an insufferable feeling of having been placed in the wrong , in spite of his excellent cause . 
Roderick did not come home to dinner but of this , with his passion for brooding away the hours on far off mountain sides , he had almost made a habit . 
Mrs. Hudson appeared at the noonday repast with a face which showed that Roderick's demand for money had unsealed the fountains of her distress . 
Little Singleton consumed an enormous and well earned dinner . 
Miss Garland , Rowland observed , had not contributed her scanty assistance to her kinsman's pursuit of the Princess Casamassima without an effort . 
The effort was visible in her pale face and her silence she looked so ill that when they left the table Rowland felt almost bound to remark upon it . 
They had come out upon the grass in front of the inn . 
I have a headache , she said . 
I believe there is such a thing as being too reasonable . 
He went forth in search of them and found them where he had thrown them . 
He flung himself down in the same place again he felt indisposed to walk . 
He was conscious that his mood had vastly changed since the morning his extraordinary , acute sense of his rights had been replaced by the familiar , chronic sense of his duties . 
Only , his duties now seemed impracticable he turned over and buried his face in his arms . 
He lay so a long time , thinking of many things the sum of them all was that Roderick had beaten him . 
At last he was startled by an extraordinary sound it took him a moment to perceive that it was a portentous growl of thunder . 
He roused himself and saw that the whole face of the sky had altered . 
The clouds that had hung motionless all day were moving from their stations , and getting into position , as it were , for a battle . 
The wind was rising the sallow vapors were turning dark and consolidating their masses . 
It was a striking spectacle , but Rowland judged best to observe it briefly , as a storm was evidently imminent . 
We are going to have a most interesting storm , the little painter gleefully cried . 
I should like awfully to do it . 
Rowland adjured him to pack up his tools and decamp , and repaired to the house . 
The innkeeper and his servants had crowded to the doorway , and were looking at the scene with faces which seemed a proof that it was unprecedented . 
As Rowland approached , the group divided , to let some one pass from within , and Mrs. Hudson came forth , as white as a corpse and trembling in every limb . 
My boy , my boy , where is my boy ? she cried . 
Mr. Mallet , why are you here without him ? Bring him to me ! Has no one seen Mr. Hudson ? Rowland asked of the others . 
Has he not returned ? Each one shook his head and looked grave , and Rowland attempted to reassure Mrs. Hudson by saying that of course he had taken refuge in a chalet . 
Go and find him , go and find him ! she cried , insanely . 
The brightness lasted long enough to enable Rowland to see a woman's figure on the top of an eminence near the house . 
It was Mary Garland , questioning the lurid darkness for Roderick . 
Rowland sprang out to interrupt her vigil , but in a moment he encountered her , retreating . 
He seized her hand and hurried her to the house , where , as soon as she stepped into the covered gallery , Mrs. Hudson fell upon her with frantic lamentations . 
Did you see nothing , nothing ? she cried . 
Tell Mr. Mallet he must go and find him , with some men , some lights , some wrappings . 
Go , go , go , sir ! In mercy , go ! Rowland was extremely perturbed by the poor lady's vociferous folly , for he deemed her anxiety superfluous . 
He had offered his suggestion with sincerity nothing was more probable than that Roderick had found shelter in a herdsman's cabin . 
These were numerous on the neighboring mountains , and the storm had given fair warning of its approach . 
Miss Garland stood there very pale , saying nothing , but looking at him . 
He expected that she would check her cousin's importunity . 
Could you find him ? she suddenly asked . 
Would it be of use ? The question seemed to him a flash intenser than the lightning that was raking the sky before them . 
It shattered his dream that he weighed in the scale ! But before he could answer , the full fury of the storm was upon them the rain descended in sounding torrents . 
Every one fell back into the house . 
There had been no time to light lamps , and in the little uncarpeted parlor , in the unnatural darkness , Rowland felt Mary's hand upon his arm . 
For a moment it had an eloquent pressure it seemed to retract her senseless challenge , and to say that she believed , for Roderick , what he believed . 
But nevertheless , thought Rowland , the cry had come , her heart had spoken her first impulse had been to sacrifice him . 
He rendered what help he could , but when they had laid the poor woman on her bed , Miss Garland motioned him away . 
I think you make her worse , she said . 
Rowland went to his own chamber . 
The partitions in Swiss mountain inns are thin , and from time to time he heard Mrs. Hudson moaning , three rooms off . 
Considering its great fury , the storm took long to expend itself it was upwards of three hours before the thunder ceased . 
But even then the rain continued to fall heavily , and the night , which had come on , was impenetrably black . 
This lasted till near midnight . 
At midnight , through his dripping window pane , he saw a star , and he immediately went downstairs and out into the gallery . 
The rain had ceased , the cloud masses were dissevered here and there , and several stars were visible . 
In a few minutes he heard a step behind him , and , turning , saw Miss Garland . 
He asked about Mrs. Hudson and learned that she was sleeping , exhausted by her fruitless lamentations . 
Miss Garland kept scanning the darkness , but she said nothing to cast doubt on Roderick's having found a refuge . 
This also have I guaranteed ! he said to himself . 
There was something that Mary wished to learn , and a question presently revealed it . 
What made him start on a long walk so suddenly ? she asked . 
I saw him at eleven o'clock , and then he meant to go to Engelberg , and sleep . 
On his way to Interlaken ? Rowland said . 
Yes , she answered , under cover of the darkness . 
We had some talk , said Rowland , and he seemed , for the day , to have given up Interlaken . 
Did you dissuade him ? Not exactly . 
We discussed another question , which , for the time , superseded his plan . 
Then May I ask whether your discussion was violent ? she said . 
I am afraid it was agreeable to neither of us . 
And Roderick left you in in irritation ? I offered him my company on his walk . 
Miss Garland paced slowly to the end of the gallery and then came back . 
If he had gone to Engelberg , she said , he would have reached the hotel before the storm began . 
Rowland felt a sudden explosion of ferocity . 
Oh , if you like , he cried , he can start for Interlaken as soon as he comes back ! But she did not even notice his wrath . 
Will he come back early ? she went on . 
Miss Garland bent her eyes once more upon the irresponsive darkness , and then , in silence , went into the house . 
Rowland , it must be averred , in spite of his resolution not to be nervous , found no sleep that night . 
When the early dawn began to tremble in the east , he came forth again into the open air . 
The storm had completely purged the atmosphere , and the day gave promise of cloudless splendor . 
Rowland watched the early sun shafts slowly reaching higher , and remembered that if Roderick did not come back to breakfast , there were two things to be taken into account . 
Breakfast , at the inn , was early , and by breakfast time Roderick had not appeared . 
Then Rowland admitted that he was nervous . 
Neither Mrs. Hudson nor Miss Garland had left their apartment Rowland had a mental vision of them sitting there praying and listening he had no desire to see them more directly . 
By the time they had lost sight of the inn , Rowland was obliged to confess that , decidedly , Roderick had had time to come back . 
He wandered about for several hours , but he found only the sunny stillness of the mountain sides . 
Rowland made his way to several chalets , but most of them were empty . 
He thumped at their low , foul doors with a kind of nervous , savage anger he challenged the stupid silence to tell him something about his friend . 
Some of these places had evidently not been open in months . 
The silence everywhere was horrible it seemed to mock at his impatience and to be a conscious symbol of calamity . 
The creature's family was scattered on the mountain sides he could give Rowland no help to find them . 
Rowland climbed into many awkward places , and skirted , intently and peeringly , many an ugly chasm and steep dropping ledge . 
At noon he paused in his quest and sat down on a stone the conviction was pressing upon him that the worst that was now possible was true . 
He suspended his search he was afraid to go on . 
He sat there for an hour , sick to the depths of his soul . 
Without his knowing why , several things , chiefly trivial , that had happened during the last two years and that he had quite forgotten , became vividly present to his mind . 
He was aroused at last by the sound of a stone dislodged near by , which rattled down the mountain . 
In a moment , on a steep , rocky slope opposite to him , he beheld a figure cautiously descending a figure which was not Roderick . 
It was Singleton , who had seen him and began to beckon to him . 
Come down come down ! cried the painter , steadily making his own way down . 
Rowland saw that as he moved , and even as he selected his foothold and watched his steps , he was looking at something at the bottom of the cliff . 
This was a great rugged wall which had fallen backward from the perpendicular , and the descent , though difficult , was with care sufficiently practicable . 
What do you see ? cried Rowland . 
Singleton stopped , looked across at him and seemed to hesitate then , Come down come down ! he simply repeated . 
Rowland's course was also a steep descent , and he attacked it so precipitately that he afterwards marveled he had not broken his neck . 
It was a ten minutes' headlong scramble . 
Half way down he saw something that made him dizzy he saw what Singleton had seen . 
In the gorge below them a vague white mass lay tumbled upon the stones . 
He let himself go , blindly , fiercely . 
Singleton had reached the rocky bottom of the ravine before him , and had bounded forward and fallen upon his knees . 
Rowland overtook him and his own legs collapsed . 
He had fallen from a great height , but he was singularly little disfigured . 
The rain had spent its torrents upon him , and his clothes and hair were as wet as if the billows of the ocean had flung him upon the strand . 
An attempt to move him would show some hideous fracture , some horrible physical dishonor but what Rowland saw on first looking at him was only a strangely serene expression of life . 
The eyes were dead , but in a short time , when Rowland had closed them , the whole face seemed to awake . 
The rain had washed away all blood it was as if Violence , having done her work , had stolen away in shame . 
Roderick's face might have shamed her it looked admirably handsome . 
He was a beautiful man ! said Singleton . 
At last they spoke of carrying him back to the inn . 
There must be three or four men , Rowland said , and they must be brought here quickly . 
I have not the least idea where we are . 
We are at about three hours' walk from home , said Singleton . 
I will go for help I can find my way . 
Remember , said Rowland , whom you will have to face . 
I remember , the excellent fellow answered . 
There was nothing I could ever do for him in life I will do what I can now . 
He went off , and Rowland stayed there alone . 
He watched for seven long hours , and his vigil was forever memorable . 
The most rational of men was for an hour the most passionate . 
Roderick had been fond of saying that there are such things as necessary follies , and Rowland was now proving it . 
At last he grew almost used to the dumb exultation of the cliff above him . 
He saw that Roderick was a mass of hideous injury , and he tried to understand what had happened . 
Not that it helped him before that confounding mortality one hypothesis after another faltered and swooned away . 
Perhaps he had simply lost himself . 
The tempest had overtaken him , and when he tried to return , it was too late . 
He had attempted to descend the cliff in the darkness , he had made the inevitable slip , and whether he had fallen fifty feet or three hundred little mattered . 
The condition of his body indicated the shorter fall . 
Now that all was over , Rowland understood how exclusively , for two years , Roderick had filled his life . 
Singleton came back with four men one of them the landlord of the inn . 
To Rowland it seemed as if the little procession would never reach the inn but as they drew near it he would have given his right hand for a longer delay . 
The people of the inn came forward to meet them , in a little silent , solemn convoy . 
In the doorway , clinging together , appeared the two bereaved women . 
That cry still lives in Rowland's ears . 
Miss Garland lives with Mrs. Hudson , at Northampton , where Rowland visits his cousin Cecilia more frequently than of old . 
When he calls upon Miss Garland he never sees Mrs. Hudson . 
