This etext was prepared with the use of Calera WordScan Plus . 
THE REPORTER WHO MADE HIMSELF KING The Old Time Journalist will tell you that the best reporter is the one who works his way up . 
That is the old time journalist's idea of it . 
That is the way he was trained , and that is why at the age of sixty he is still a reporter . 
And he will only do what he is paid to do . 
Now , you cannot pay a good reporter for what he does , because he does not work for pay . 
He works for his paper . 
He gives his time , his health , his brains , his sleeping hours , and his eating hours , and sometimes his life , to get news for it . 
He thinks the sun rises only that men may have light by which to read it . 
But if he has been in a newspaper office from his youth up , he finds out before he becomes a reporter that this is not so , and loses his real value . 
It is necessary for you to know this , that you may understand what manner of man young Albert Gordon was . 
Young Gordon had been a reporter just three years . 
And now he thought he would like to rest and breathe a bit , and not to work again unless as a war correspondent . 
He read the papers every morning on the elevated trains for war clouds but though there were many war clouds , they always drifted apart , and peace smiled again . 
This was very disappointing to young Gordon , and he became more and more keenly discouraged . 
And then as war work was out of the question , he decided to write his novel . 
It was to be a novel of New York life , and he wanted a quiet place in which to work on it . 
His own salary was only fifteen hundred dollars and though his brother in law , Senator Rainsford , tried his best to get the amount raised , he was unsuccessful . 
Captain Travis , as well as Albert , had a secondary reason for wishing to visit Opeki . 
Steamers from San Francisco to Yokohama stopped every third week at Octavia , and that was all that either Captain Travis or his secretary could learn of their new home . 
He also collected even more beautiful but less exensive decorations for Christmas trees , at a wholsesale house on Park Row . 
These he hoped to exchange for furs or feathers or weapons , or for whatever other curious and valuable trophies the Island of Opeki boasted . 
He already pictured his rooms on his return hung fantastically with crossed spears and boomerangs , feather head dresses , and ugly idols . 
His friends told him that he was doing a very foolish thing , and argued that once out of the newspaper world , it would be hard to regain his place in it . 
Captain Travis and his secretary crossed the continent without adventure , and took passage from San Francisco on the first steamer that touched at Octavia . 
Two fishermen agreed to take them and their trunks , and to get them to their destination within sixteen hours if the wind held good . 
It was a most unpleasant sail . 
Captain Travis complained of frequent twinges of rheumatism , and gazed forlornly over the gunwale at the empty waste of water . 
This is a pretty way to treat a man who bled for his country . 
This is gratitude , this is . 
Albert pulled heavily on his pipe , and wiped the rain and spray from his face and smiled . 
There will be a round of diplomatic dinners , said the consul , with an attempt at cheerfulness . 
I have brought two uniforms to wear at them . 
It was seven o'clock in the evening when the rain ceased , and one of the black , half naked fishermen nodded and pointed at a little low line on the horizon . 
They next made out a village of thatched huts around a grassy square , and at some distance from the village a wooden structure with a tin roof . 
I wonder where the town is , asked the consul , with a nervous glance at the fishermen . 
One of them told him that what he saw was the town . 
That ? gasped the consul . 
The consul and his attache of legation gazed at the mountains with unspoken misgivings . 
They seemed greatly excited and ran in and out of the huts , and up and down the beach , as wildly as so many black ants . 
That young gentleman , at least , said Albert , gravely , seems pleased to see us . 
A dozen of the natives sprang into the water and came wading and swimming toward them , grinning and shouting and swinging their arms . 
I don't think it's quite safe , do you ? said the consul , looking out wildly to the open sea . 
You see , they don't know who I am . 
A great black giant threw one arm over the gunwale and shouted something that sounded as if it were spelt Owah , Owah , as the boat carried him through the surf . 
How do you do ? said Gordon , doubtfully . 
The boat shook the giant off under the wave and beached itself so suddenly that the American consul was thrown forward to his knees . 
I'm awfully glad to see you , said the young man , eagerly . 
I'm from New Haven , Connecticut . 
Where are you from ? New York , said Albert . 
This , he added , pointing solemnly to Captain Travis , who was still on his knees in the boat , is the American consul to Opeki . 
The American consul to Opeki gave a wild look at Mr. Stedman of New Haven and at the natives . 
Why , I never supposed they would send another here the last one died about fifteen years ago , and there hasn't been one since . 
I've been living in the consul's office with the Bradleys , but I'll move out , of course . 
I'm sure I'm awfully glad to see you . 
It'll make it so much more pleasant for me . 
Yes , said Captain Travis , bitterly , as he lifted his rheumatic leg over the boat that's why we came . 
Mr. Stedman did not notice this . 
He was too much pleased to be anything but hospitable . 
You are soaking wet , aren't you ? he said and hungry , I guess . 
You come right over to the consul's office and get on some other things . 
They've gone to tell the King , said Stedman but you'd better get something to eat first , and then I'll be happy to present you properly . 
He's a very good king , said Stedman , confidentially and though you mightn't think it to look at him , he's a terrible stickler for etiquette and form . 
The only reason he borrows mine is because he thinks I'm the President's son . 
What makes him think that ? demanded the consul , with some shortness . 
Young Mr. Stedman looked nervously at the consul and at Albert , and said that he guessed someone must have told him . 
The consul's office was divided into four rooms with an open court in the middle , filled with palms , and watered somewhat unnecessarily by a fountain . 
I made that , said Stedman , in a modest , offhand way . 
I made it out of hollow bamboo reeds connected with a spring . 
And now I'm making one for the King . 
And because mine spurts , he thinks I'm a magician . 
I suppose , grumbled the consul , someone told him that too . 
I suppose so , said Mr. Stedman , uneasily . 
The place was as clean as a kitchen . 
I made the furniture , said Stedman , and the Bradleys keep the place in order . 
Who are the Bradleys ? asked Albert . 
The Bradleys are those two men you saw with me , said Stedman they deserted from a British man of war that stopped here for coal , and they act as my servants . 
One is Bradley , Sr . 
, and the other Bradley , Jr . 
Then vessels do stop here occasionally ? the consul said , with a pleased smile . 
Well , not often , said Stedman . 
Not so very often about once a year . 
When they saw your flag , they thought you might mean to send them back , so they ran off to hide again they'll be back , though , when they get hungry . 
The supper young Stedman spread for his guests , as he still treated them , was very refreshing and very good . 
There was cold fish and pigeon pie , and a hot omelet filled with mushrooms and olives and tomatoes and onions all sliced up together , and strong black coffee . 
After supper , Stedman went off to see the King , and came back in a little while to say that his Majesty would give them an audience the next day after breakfast . 
It is too dark now , Stedman explained and it's raining so that they can't make the street lamps burn . 
Did you happen to notice our lamps ? I invented them but they don't work very well yet . 
I've got the right idea , though , and I'll soon have the town illuminated all over , whether it rains or not . 
The consul had been very silent and indifferent , during supper , to all around him . 
Now he looked up with some show of interest . 
How much longer is it going to rain , do you think ? he asked . 
Oh , I don't know , said Stedman , critically . 
Not more than two months , I should say . 
The consul rubbed his rheumatic leg and sighed , but said nothing . 
The Bradleys returned about ten o'clock , and came in very sheepishly . 
Then he turned into one of the beds , and Stedman took one in another room , leaving the room he had occupied heretofore for the consul . 
The sun was shining brightly when he awoke , and the palm trees outside were nodding gracefully in a warm breeze . 
But the room was quite empty , and the bed undisturbed . 
The handwriting was the consul's . 
Albert picked it up and read it with much anxiety . 
It began abruptly The fishermen who brought us to this forsaken spot tell me that it rains here six months in the year , and that this is the first month . 
I came here to serve my country , for which I fought and bled , but I did not come here to die of rheumatism and pneumonia . 
I can serve my country better by staying alive and whether it rains or not , I don't like it . 
I have been grossly deceived , and I am going back . 
My cousin , Senator Rainsford , can fix it all right with the President , and can have me recalled in proper form after I get back . 
Your sincere friend and superior officer , LEONARD T. TRAVIS . 
What you will need most , I think , is a waterproof and umbrella . 
P. S. Look out for that young man Stedman . 
I hope you will like your high office but as for myself , I am satisfied with little old New York . 
Opeki is just a bit too far from civilization to suit me . 
Albert held the letter before him and read it over again before he moved . 
Then he jumped to the window . 
The boat was gone , and there was not a sign of it on the horizon . 
The miserable old hypocrite ! he cried , half angry and half laughing . 
If he thinks I am going to stay here alone he is very greatly mistaken . 
And yet , why not ? he asked . 
He stopped soliloquizing and looked around him , thinking rapidly . 
As he stood there , Stedman came in from the other room , fresh and smiling from his morning's bath . 
Good morning , he said , where's the consul ? The consul , said Albert , gravely , is before you . 
In me you see the American consul to Opeki . 
Captain Travis , Albert explained , has returned to the United States . 
I suppose he feels that he can best serve his country by remaining on the spot . 
In case of another war , now , for instance , he would be there to save it again . 
And what are you going to do ? asked Stedman , anxiously . 
I'm sure it's very good of you to make me your secretary , said Stedman , with some pride . 
I hope I won't make any mistakes . 
What are the duties of a consul's secretary ? That , said Albert , I do not know . 
But you are rather good at inventing , so you can invent a few . 
That should be your first duty and you should attend to it at once . 
I will have trouble enough finding work for myself . 
Your salary is five hundred dollars a year and now , he continued , briskly , we want to prepare for this reception . 
We can tell the King that Travis was just a guard of honor for the trip , and that I have sent him back to tell the President of my safe arrival . 
That will keep the President from getting anxious . 
There is nothing , continued Albert , like a uniform to impress people who live in the tropics , and Travis , it so happens , has two in his trunk . 
But I have first choice , because I am consul . 
Captain Travis's consular outfit consisted of one full dress and one undress United States uniform . 
Albert put on the dress coat over a pair of white flannel trousers , and looked remarkably brave and handsome . 
Stedman , who was only eighteen and quite thin , did not appear so well , until Albert suggested his padding out his chest and shoulders with towels . 
This made him rather warm , but helped his general appearance . 
The two Bradleys must dress up , too , said Albert . 
The students of Yale gave me that , he said to the younger Bradley , in which to play football , and a great man gave me the other . 
His name is Walter Camp and if you rip or soil that jersey , I'll send you back to England in irons so be careful . 
Stedman gazed at his companions in their different costumes , doubtfully . 
It reminds me , he said , of private theatricals . 
Of the time our church choir played Pinafore . 
Yes , assented Albert but I don't think we look quite gay enough . 
I tell you what we need , medals . 
You never saw a diplomat without a lot of decorations and medals . 
Well , I can fix that , Stedman said . 
I used to be the fastest bicycle rider in Connecticut , and I've got all my prizes with me . 
Albert said doubtfully that that wasn't exactly the sort of medal he meant . 
Perhaps not , returned Stedman , as he began fumbling in his trunk but the King won't know the difference . 
He couldn't tell a cross of the Legion of Honor from a medal for the tug of war . 
That is a very good idea , he said . 
Democratic simplicity is the right thing at home , of course but when you go abroad and mix with crowned heads , you want to show them that you know what's what . 
Well , said Albert , gravely , I sincerely hope this crowned head don't know what's what . 
If he reads Connecticut Agricultural State Fair . 
First Prize , on this badge , when we are trying to make him believe it's a war medal , it may hurt his feelings . 
The King was too polite to appear much surprised , but he showed his delight over his presents as simply and openly as a child . 
The crowd remained outside the office even after the procession of four had disappeared , and cheered . 
This suggested to Gordon that this would be a good time to make a speech , which he accordingly did , Stedman translating it , sentence by sentence . 
At the conclusion of this effort , Albert distributed a number of brass rings among the married men present , which they placed on whichever finger fitted best , and departed delighted . 
And now , Stedman , said Albert , after the mob had gone , tell me what you are doing on this island . 
It's a very simple story , Stedman said . 
I am the representative , or agent , or operator , for the Yokohama Cable Company . 
The Yokohama Cable Company is a company organized in San Francisco , for the purpose of laying a cable to Yokohama . 
It is a stock company and though it started out very well , the stock has fallen very low . 
Between ourselves , it is not worth over three or four cents . 
Then they said they had run out of ready money , and would wait until they got more before laying their cable any farther . 
I do not think they ever will lay it any farther , but that is none of my business . 
My business is to answer cable messages from San Francisco , so that the people who visit the home office can see that at least a part of the cable is working . 
That sometimes impresses them , and they buy stock . 
There is another chap over in Octavia , who relays all my messages and all my replies to those messages that come to me through him from San Francisco . 
And then generally only to say How are you ? or It's raining , or something like that . 
I've been saying It's raining , now for the last three months , but to day I will say that the new consul has arrived . 
That will be a pleasant surprise for the chap in Octavia , for he must be tired hearing about the weather . 
He generally answers , Here too , or So you said , or something like that . 
I don't know what he says to the home office . 
He's brighter than I am , and that's why they put him between the two ends . 
He can see that the messages are transmitted more fully and more correctly , in a way to please possible subscribers . 
Sort of copy editor , suggested Albert . 
Yes , something of that sort , I fancy , said Stedman . 
I suppose , said his secretary , doubtfully , that he thinks it a sort of a punishment to be sent to Opeki . 
I hope you won't grow to think so . 
Opeki is all very well , said Gordon , or it will be when we get things going our way . 
As they walked back to the office , Albert noticed a brass cannon , perched on a rock at the entrance to the harbor . 
This had been put there by the last consul , but it had not been fired for many years . 
And when we are not using it , he said , the King can borrow it to celebrate with , if he doesn't impose on us too often . 
The royal salute ought to be twenty one guns , I think but that would use up too much powder , so he will have to content himself with two . 
Why ? Well , they never saluted me , replied Stedman . 
That sign of respect is due to the show we made at the reception . 
It is due to us , in any event , said the consul , severely . 
I tell you , my secretary , that we , as the representatives of the United States Government , must be properly honored on this island . 
We must become a power . 
And we must do so without getting into trouble with the King . 
We must make them honor him , too , and then as we push him up , we will push ourselves up at the same time . 
They don't think much of consuls in Opeki , said Stedman , doubtfully . 
You see the last one was a pretty poor sort . 
Now we must change all that . 
That is just what we will do , said Albert . 
We will transform Opeki into a powerful and beautiful city . 
We will make these people work . 
They must put up a palace for the King , and lay out streets , and build wharves , and drain the town properly , and light it . 
And I , he cried , in free enthusiasm , will organize a navy and a standing army . 
Only , he added , with a relapse of interest , there isn't anybody to fight . 
There isn't ? said Stedman , grimly , with a scornful smile . 
You just go hunt up old Messenwah and the Hillmen with your standing army once and you'll get all the fighting you want . 
The Hillmen ? said Albert . 
There are nearly as many of them as there are Opekians , and they hunt and fight for a living and for the pleasure of it . 
They have an old rascal named Messenwah for a king , and they come down here about once every three months , and tear things up . 
Albert sprang to his feet . 
Oh , they do , do they ? he said , staring up at the mountain tops . 
They come down here and tear up things , do they ? Well , I think we'll stop that , I think we'll stop that ! I don't care how many there are . 
And when the Hillmen come down to pay their quarterly visit , they'll go back again on a run . 
At least some of them will , he added , ferociously . 
Some of them will stay right here . 
Dear me , dear me ! said Stedman , with awe you are a born fighter , aren't you ? Well , you wait and see , said Gordon maybe I am . 
I haven't studied tactics of war and the history of battles , so that I might be a great war correspondent , without learning something . 
And there is only one king on this island , and that is old Ollypybus himself . 
And I'll go over and have a talk with him about it to morrow . 
Young Stedman walked up and down the length of the veranda , in and out of the moonlight , with his hands in his pockets , and his head on his chest . 
You have me all stirred up , Gordon , he said you seem so confident and bold , and you're not so much older than I am , either . 
My training has been different that's all , said the reporter . 
Yes , Stedman said , bitterly . 
I have been sitting in an office ever since I left school , sending news over a wire or a cable , and you have been out in the world , gathering it . 
And now , said Gordon , smiling , and putting his arm around the other boy's shoulders , we are going to make news ourselves . 
There is one thing I want to say to you before you turn in , said Stedman . 
Before you suggest all these improvements on Ollypybus , you must remember that he has ruled absolutely here for twenty years , and that he does not think much of consuls . 
He has only seen your predecessor and yourself . 
He likes you because you appeared with such dignity , and because of the presents but if I were you , I wouldn't suggest these improvements as coming from yourself . 
The President ! exclaimed Gordon but how ? What does the President know or care about Opeki ? and it would take so long oh , I see , the cable . 
Is that what you have been doing ? he asked . 
I'm glad you told me , said Gordon . 
The President shall begin to cable to morrow . 
He will need an extra appropriation from Congress to pay for his private cablegrams alone . 
And there's another thing , said Stedman . 
Have they no games or amusements of their own ? asked Gordon . 
Well , not what we would call games . 
Very well , then , I'll teach them base ball . 
Foot ball would be too warm . 
But that plaza in front of the King's bungalow , where his palace is going to be , is just the place for a diamond . 
On the whole , though , added the consul , after a moment's reflection , you'd better attend to that yourself . 
The Bradleys will help you , and you had better begin to morrow . 
You have been wanting to know what a secretary of legation's duties are , and now you know . 
It's to organize base ball nines . 
And after you get yours ready , he added , as he turned into his room for the night , I'll train one that will sweep yours off the face of the island . 
For THIS American consul can pitch three curves . 
The best laid plans of men go far astray , sometimes , and the great and beautiful city that was to rise on the coast of Opeki was not built in a day . 
Nor was it ever built . 
His enthusiasm was even greater than Gordon's , because he did not appreciate the difficulties . 
As they looked at one another in startled surprise , a native ran into the room , followed by Bradley , Jr . 
, and threw himself down before the King . 
While he talked , beating his hands and bowing before Ollypybus , Bradley , Jr . 
They might have waited until we had that army trained , said Gordon , in a tone of the keenest displeasure . 
Well , we must stop them , said Gordon , jumping up . 
We must take out a flag of truce and treat with them . 
They must be kept off until I have my army in working order . 
If they had only waited two months , now , or six weeks even , we could have done something but now we must make peace . 
Tell the King we are going out to fix things with them , and tell him to keep off his warriors until he learns whether we succeed or fail . 
But , Gordon ! gasped Stedman . 
Albert ! You don't understand . 
Why , man , this isn't a street fight or a cane rush . 
They'll stick you full of spears , dance on your body , and eat you , maybe . 
A flag of truce ! you're talking nonsense . 
What do they know of a flag of truce ? You're talking nonsense , too , said Albert , and you're talking to your superior officer . 
Play you're riding a bicycle at the Agricultural Fair . 
Stedman did not hear this last , for he was already off and away , pushing through the crowd , and calling on Bradley , Sr . 
, looked at Gordon with eyes that snapped , like a dog that is waiting for his master to throw a stone . 
I can fire a Winchester , sir , he said . 
He's no good at long range 'cept with a big gun , sir . 
Don't give him the Winchester . 
Give it to me , please , sir . 
Albert met Stedman in the plaza , and pulled off his blazer , and put on Captain Travis's now his uniform coat , and his white pith helmet . 
Now , Jack , he said , get up there and tell these people that we are going out to make peace with these Hillmen , or bring them back prisoners of war . 
Stedman's speech was hot and wild enough to suit a critical and feverish audience before a barricade in Paris . 
Gordon walked with Bradley , Jr . 
Stedman and old Tom Bradley followed close behind , with the two shot guns , and the presents in a basket . 
Are these Hillmen used to guns ? asked Gordon . 
Stedman said no , they were not . 
This shot gun of mine is the only one on the island , he explained , and we never came near enough them before to do anything with it . 
It only carries a hundred yards . 
The Opekians never make any show of resistance . 
They are quite content if the Hillmen satisfy themselves with the outlying huts , as long as they leave them and the town alone so they seldom come to close quarters . 
The Hillmen were about forty in number , and were as savage and ugly looking giants as any in a picture book . 
They had captured a dozen cows and goats , and were driving them on before them , as they advanced farther upon the village . 
Is that Messenwah ? asked Gordon . 
Yes , said Stedman he is trying to keep them back . 
I don't believe he ever saw a white man before . 
Stedman looked at Albert , and Albert looked at Stedman , and neither of them winced or flinched . 
Is this another of my secretary's duties ? asked the younger boy . 
Yes , said the consul but a resignation is always in order . 
You needn't go if you don't like it . 
You see , you know the language and I don't , but I know how to shoot , and you don't . 
That's perfectly satisfactory , said Stedman , handing his gun to old Bradley . 
I only wanted to know why I was to be sacrificed instead of one of the Bradleys . 
It's because I know the language . 
, you see the evil results of a higher education . 
Wish me luck , please , he said , and for goodness' sake , he added impressively , don't waste much time shooting goats . 
The Hillmen had stopped about two hundred yards off , and were drawn up in two lines , shouting , and dancing , and hurling taunting remarks at their few adversaries . 
The stolen cattle were bunched together back of the King . 
As Stedman walked steadily forward with his handkerchief fluttering , and howling out something in their own tongue , they stopped and listened . 
As he advanced , his three companions followed him at about fifty yards in the rear . 
But the instant the young man had fired , King Messenwah swung his club and knocked him down , and none of the others moved . 
Ah , gasped Bradley , Jr . 
, with his finger trembling on his lever , let me take a shot at him now . 
So when he saluted Gordon haughtily , that young man gave him a haughty nod in return , and bade Stedman tell the King that he would permit him to sit down . 
The King did not quite appear to like this , but he sat down , nevertheless , and nodded his head gravely . 
Have I got to tell him he's a little three penny King ? said Stedman , plaintively . 
No you needn't give a literal translation it can be as free as you please . 
Thanks , said the secretary , humbly . 
And tell him , continued Gordon , that we will give presents to him and his warriors if he keeps away from Ollypybus , and agrees to keep away always . 
But you needn't tell him that , either . 
And if he is proud and haughty , and would rather fight , ask him to restrain himself until we show what we can do with our weapons at two hundred yards . 
When he had finished , the King looked at the bundle of presents , and at the guns , of which Stedman had given a very wonderful account , but answered nothing . 
I guess , said Stedman , with a sigh , that we will have to give him a little practical demonstration to help matters . 
I am sorry , but I think one of those goats has got to die . 
The lower order of animals have to suffer for the good of the higher . 
Oh , said Bradley , Jr . 
, cheerfully , I'd just as soon shoot one of those niggers as one of the goats . 
Take your time , Bradley , said Gordon . 
Aim low , and if you hit it , you can have it for supper . 
And if you miss it , said Stedman , gloomily , Messenwah may have us for supper . 
When it was about one hundred and fifty yards off he fired , and the goat fell over dead . 
And then all the Hillmen , with the King himself , broke away on a run , toward the dead animal , with much shouting . 
The King came back alone , leaving his people standing about and examining the goat . 
He was much excited , and talked and gesticulated violently . 
He says said Stedman he says What ? yes , go on . 
He says goodness me ! what do you think he says ? Well , what does he say ? cried Gordon , in great excitement . 
Don't keep it all to yourself . 
He says he sees that we are indeed mighty men , that to us he is as helpless as the wild boar before the javelin of the hunter . 
Well , he's right , said Gordon . 
But that which we ask is no longer his to give . 
And that he signed a paper , and made marks on a piece of bark , to show that he gave up the island freely and forever . 
What does he mean ? said Gordon . 
How can he give up the island ? Ollypybus is the king of half of it , anyway , and he knows it . 
That's just it , said Stedman . 
And now that you have turned up and taken Ollypybus's part , he wishes he hadn't sold the island , and wishes to know if you are angry . 
Angry ? of course I'm angry , said Gordon , glaring as grimly at the frightened monarch as he thought was safe . 
Who wouldn't be angry ? Who do you think these people were who made a fool of him , Stedman ? Ask him to let us see this watch . 
That doesn't tell anything , said Gordon . 
Now , that's just like those monarchical pirates , imposing upon a poor old black . 
Old Bradley looked at him impudently . 
Not at all , said Gordon it's quite different with us we don't want to rob him or Ollypybus , or to annex their land . 
All we want to do is to , improve it , and have the fun of running it for them and meddling in their affairs of state . 
Messenwah and his warriors promised to come early , and saluted reverently as Gordon and his three companions walked up together very proudly and stiffly . 
Do you know how I feel ? said Gordon . 
I always felt a cold chill down my spinal column , and I could feel that snowball , whether it came or not , right in the small of my back . 
And I can feel one of those men pulling his bow now , and the arrow sticking out of my right shoulder . 
Oh , no , you can't , said Stedman . 
They are too much afraid of those rifles . 
But I do feel sorry for any of those warriors whom old man Messenwah doesn't like , now that he has that revolver . 
He isn't the sort to practise on goats . 
There was great rejoicing when Stedman and Gordon told their story to the King , and the people learned that they were not to have their huts burned and their cattle stolen . 
The armed Opekians formed a guard around the ambassadors and escorted them to their homes with cheers and shouts , and the women ran at their side and tried to kiss Gordon's hand . 
I'm sorry I can't speak the language , Stedman , said Gordon , or I would tell them what a brave man you are . 
You are too modest to do it yourself , even if I dictated something for you to say . 
As for me , he said , pulling off his uniform , I am thoroughly disgusted and disappointed . 
It never occurred to me until it was all over that this was my chance to be a war correspondent . 
It wouldn't have been much of a war , but then I would have been the only one on the spot , and that counts for a great deal . 
Still , my time may come . 
We have a great deal on hand for to morrow , said Gordon that evening , and we had better turn in early . 
And so the people were still singing and rejoicing down in the village when the two conspirators for the peace of the country went to sleep for the night . 
It's me Bradley , said the figure . 
I heard her anchor chains rattle when she came to , and that woke me . 
I could hear that if I were dead . 
And then I made sure by her lights she's a great boat , sir , and I can know she's a ship of war by the challenging when they change the watch . 
I thought you'd like to know , sir . 
Gordon sat up and clutched his knees with his hands . 
Yes , of course , he said you are quite right . 
Still , I don't see what there is to do . 
Wake Mr. Stedman , will you ? said he , and we will go and take a look at her . 
You can see nothing but the lights , said Bradley , as he left the room it's a black night , sir . 
Stedman was not new from the sight of men and ships of war , and came in half dressed and eager . 
Do you suppose it's the big canoe Messenwah spoke of ? he said . 
I thought of that , said Gordon . 
As they stood on the shore , shivering in the cool night wind , they heard the bells strike over the water . 
It's two o'clock , said Bradley , counting . 
Well , we can do nothing , and they cannot mean to do much to night , Albert said . 
We had better get some more sleep , and , Bradley , you keep watch and tell us as soon as day breaks . 
Aye , aye , sir , said the sailor . 
What do you intend to do ? asked his secretary , with a voice of some concern . 
I don't know , Albert answered gravely , from the blackness of the night . 
And with this cheering tone of confidence in their ears , the two diplomats went soundly asleep again . 
The light of the rising sun filled the room , and the parrots were chattering outside , when Bradley woke him again . 
They are sending a boat ashore , sir , he said , excitedly , and filled with the importance of the occasion . 
She's a German man of war , and one of the new model . 
A beautiful boat , sir for her lines were laid in Glasgow , and I can tell that , no matter what flag she flies . 
You had best be moving to meet them the village isn't awake yet . 
Albert took a cold bath and dressed leisurely then he made Bradley , Jr . 
The plaza was enclosed by the natives gathered in whispering groups , and depressed by fear and wonder . 
On one side were crowded all the Messenwah warriors , unarmed , and as silent and disturbed as the Opekians . 
We must find the King at once , said Gordon . 
He was terribly excited and angry . 
It is easy enough to see what this means . 
They are going through the form of annexing this island to the other lands of the German Government . 
They are robbing old Ollypybus of what is his . 
They have not even given him a silver watch for it . 
The King was in his bungalow , facing the plaza . 
Messenwah was with him , and an equal number of each of their councils . 
Now then , Stedman , be quick , he said . 
Explain to them what this means tell them that I will protect them that I am anxious to see that Ollypybus is not cheated that we will do all we can for them . 
Outside , on the shore , a second boat's crew had landed a group of officers and a file of marines . 
The natives , awed and afraid , crouched back among their huts , the marines and the sailors kept their eyes front , and the German captain opened his prayer book . 
The debate in the bungalow was over . 
If you only had your uniform , sir , said Bradley , Sr . 
This is a little bit too serious for uniforms and bicycle medals , said Gordon . 
And these men are used to gold lace . 
He pushed his way through the natives , and stepped confidently across the plaza . 
One minute , please , called Gordon . 
He stepped out into the hollow square formed by the marines , and raised his helmet to the captain . 
Do you speak English or French ? Gordon said in French I do not understand German . 
The captain lowered the book in his hands and gazed reflectively at Gordon through his spectacles , and made no reply . 
If I understand this , said the younger man , trying to be very impressive and polite , you are laying claim to this land , in behalf of the German Government . 
I also represent the United States Government , that does not tolerate a foreign power near her coast , since the days of President Monroe and before . 
The treaty you have made with Messenwah is an absurdity . 
At the same moment the marines raised their muskets and fired a volley , and the officers saluted and the sailors cheered . 
Are you going to submit ? are you going to let that flag stay where it is ? Messenwah and Ollypybus gazed at one another with fearful , helpless eyes . 
We are afraid , Ollypybus cried we do not know what we should do . 
What do they say ? They say they do not know what to do . 
I know what I'd do , cried Gordon . 
If I were not an American consul , I'd pull down their old flag , and put a hole in their boat and sink her . 
Well , I'd wait until they get under way before you do either of those things , said Stedman , soothingly . 
That captain seems to be a man of much determination of character . 
But I will pull it down , cried Gordon . 
I will resign , as Travis did . 
I am no longer consul . 
You can be consul if you want to . 
I am going up a step higher . 
I mean to be king . 
They must abdicate in my favor . 
Are you in earnest ? gasped Stedman . 
Don't I talk as if I were ? demanded Gordon , wiping the perspiration from his forehead . 
And can I be consul ? said Stedman , cheerfully . 
Tell them what I propose to do . 
Stedman turned and spoke rapidly to the two kings . 
The people gathered closer to hear . 
They agree , he explained , for it was but pantomime to Albert . 
They salute you as a ruler they are calling you Tellaman , which means peacemaker . 
The Peacemaker , that is your title . 
I hope you will deserve it , but I think they might have chosen a more appropriate one . 
Then I'm really King ? demanded Albert , decidedly , and I can do what I please ? They give me full power . 
Albert did not reply to this , but ran across the plaza , followed by the two Bradleys . 
Hoist that flag beside the brass cannon , he cried , and stand ready to salute it when I drop this one . 
, grasped the halyards of the flag , which he had forgotten to raise and salute in the morning in all the excitement of the arrival of the man of war . 
, stood by the brass cannon , blowing gently on his lighted fuse . 
As it rose , Bradley's brass cannon barked merrily like a little bull dog , and the Peacemaker cheered . 
Why don't you cheer , Stedman ? he shouted . 
Tell those people to cheer for all they are worth . 
The natives looked from Stedman to the boat , and even Gordon stopped in his cheering , and stood motionless , watching . 
They had not very long to wait . 
It seemed to come very slowly . 
At least it came slowly enough for everyone to see that it was coming directly toward the brass cannon . 
The Bradleys certainly saw this , for they ran as fast as they could , and kept on running . 
The ball caught the cannon under its mouth and tossed it in the air , knocking the flagpole into a dozen pieces , and passing on through two of the palm covered huts . 
Great Heavens , Gordon ! cried Stedman they are firing on us . 
But Gordon's face was radiant and wild . 
Firing on US ! he cried . 
And I am a war correspondent at last ! He ran up to Stedman and seized him by the arm so tightly that it hurt . 
By three o'clock , he said , they will know in the office what has happened . 
The country will know it to morrow when the paper is on the street people will read it all over the world . 
The Emperor will hear of it at breakfast the President will cable for further particulars . 
The Opekians and the Hillmen fell on their knees , or to dancing , as best suited their sense of relief , but Gordon shook his head . 
They are only going to land the marines , he said perhaps they are going to the spot they stopped at before , or to take up another position farther out at sea . 
They will land men and then shell the town , and the land forces will march here and co operate with the vessel , and everybody will be taken prisoner or killed . 
We have the centre of the stage , and we are making history . 
I'd rather read it than make it , said Stedman . 
You've got us in a senseless , silly position , Gordon , and a mighty unpleasant one . 
And for no reason that I can see , except to make copy for your paper . 
Tell those people to get their things together , said Gordon , and march back out of danger into the woods . 
I've got to tell the paper all about it . 
It was three o'clock before the chap at Octavia answered Stedman's signalling . 
Then Stedman delivered Gordon's message , and immediately shut off all connection , before the Octavia operator could question him . 
Gordon dictated his message in this way Begin with the date line , Opeki , June . 
At the same moment the flag was saluted by the battery . 
This salute , being mistaken for an attack on the Kaiser , was answered by that vessel . 
Well , that was the whole battery , wasn't it ? asked Gordon , and two huts is plural . 
I said houses of the people . 
I couldn't say two houses of the people . 
Just you send this as you get it . 
You are not an American consul at the present moment . 
You are an under paid agent of a cable company , and you send my stuff as I write it . 
The American residents have taken refuge in the consulate that's us , explained Gordon , and the English residents have sought refuge in the woods that's the Bradleys . 
King Tellaman that's me declares his intention of fighting against the annexation . 
The forces of the Opekians are under the command of Captain Thomas Bradley I guess I might as well make him a colonel of Colonel Thomas Bradley , of the English army . 
The American consul says Now , what do you say , Stedman ? Hurry up , please , asked Gordon , and say something good and strong . 
You get me all mixed up , complained Stedman , plaintively . 
Which am I now , a cable operator or the American consul ? Consul , of course . 
Say something patriotic and about your determination to protect the interests of your government , and all that . 
Gordon bit the end of his pencil impatiently , and waited . 
I won't do anything of the sort , Gordon , said Stedman you are getting me into an awful lot of trouble , and yourself too . 
I won't say a word . 
I guess that's enough to begin with , said Gordon . 
Now send that off quick , and then get away from the instrument before the man in Octavia begins to ask questions . 
I am going out to precipitate matters . 
Gordon walked among them , helping them in every way he could , and tasting , in their subservience and gratitude , the sweets of sovereignty . 
This is a tremendous chance for descriptive writing , Stedman , said Gordon , enthusiastically all this confusion and excitement , and the people leaving their homes , and all that . 
It's like the people getting out of Brussels before Waterloo , and then the scene at the foot of the mountains , while they are camping out there , until the Germans leave . 
I never had a chance like this before . 
It was quite dark by six o'clock , and none of the three messengers had as yet returned . 
Gordon walked up and down the empty plaza and looked now at the horizon for the man of war , and again down the road back of the village . 
But neither the vessel nor the messengers bearing word of her appeared . 
He came back more restless than before , and keenly disappointed . 
If something don't happen before three o'clock , Stedman , he said , our second cablegram will have to consist of glittering generalities And a lengthy interview with King Tellaman , by himself . 
Ollypybus and Messenwah began to breathe more freely . 
They believed the new king had succeeded in frightening the German vessel away forever . 
But the new king upset their hopes by telling them that the Germans had undoubtedly already landed , and had probably killed the three messengers . 
Stedman's face , as the answer came in to his first message of greeting , was one of strangely marked disapproval . 
What does he say ? demanded Gordon , anxiously . 
He hasn't done anything but swear yet , answered Stedman , grimly . 
What is he swearing about ? He wants to know why I left the cable yesterday . 
He says he has been trying to call me up for the last twenty four hours , ever since I sent my message at three o'clock . 
The home office is jumping mad , and want me discharged . 
They won't do that , though , he said , in a cheerful aside , because they haven't paid me my salary for the last eight months . 
He wants as much as you can send , and all the details . 
What am I to do ? that's what I want to know . 
Here I have the whole country stirred up and begging for news . 
On their knees for it , and a cable all to myself , and the only man on the spot , and nothing to say . 
I'd just like to know how long that German idiot intends to wait before he begins shelling this town and killing people . 
He has put me in a most absurd position . 
Here's a message for you , Gordon , said Stedman , with business like calm . 
Albert Gordon , Correspondent , he read Try American consul . 
K. beat the country can take all you send . 
Give names of foreign residents massacred , and fuller account blowing up palace . 
The expression on Gordon's face as this message was slowly read off to him , had changed from one of gratified pride to one of puzzled consternation . 
What's he mean by foreign residents massacred , and blowing up of palace ? asked Stedman , looking over his shoulder anxiously . 
Who is Dodge ? Dodge is the night editor , said Gordon , nervously . 
They must have read my message wrong . 
You sent just what I gave you , didn't you ? he asked . 
Of course I did , said Stedman , indignantly . 
I didn't say anything about the massacre of anybody , did I ? asked Gordon . 
I hope they are not improving on my account . 
What AM I to do ? This is getting awful . 
I'll have to go out and kill a few people myself . 
Oh , why don't that Dutch captain begin to do something ! What sort of a fighter does he call himself ? He wouldn't shoot at a school of porpoises . 
He's not Here comes a message to Leonard T. Travis , American consul , Opeki , read Stedman . 
It's raining messages to day . 
Send full details of massacre of American citizens by German sailors . 
Secretary of great Scott ! gasped Stedman , interrupting himself and gazing at his instrument with horrified fascination the Secretary of State . 
That settles it , roared Gordon , pulling at his hair and burying his face in his hands . 
I have GOT to kill some of them now . 
Albert Gordon , Correspondent , read Stedman , impressively , like the voice of Fate . 
Is Colonel Thomas Bradley commanding native forces at Opeki , Colonel Sir Thomas Kent Bradley of Crimean war fame ? Correspondent London Times , San Francisco Press Club . 
Go on , go on ! said Gordon , desperately . 
I'm getting used to it now . 
Go on ! American consul , Opeki , read Stedman . 
Home Secretary desires you to furnish list of names English residents killed during shelling of Opeki by ship of war Kaiser , and estimate of amount property destroyed . 
Stoughton , British Embassy , Washington . 
Stedman ! cried Gordon , jumping to his feet , there's a mistake here somewhere . 
These people cannot all have made my message read like that . 
Someone has altered it , and now I have got to make these people here live up to that message , whether they like being massacred and blown up or not . 
He sat down on a rock on the beach , and mopped his face with his handkerchief . 
At the end of two hours Gordon returned from the consulate with a mass of manuscript in his hand . 
Here's three thousand words , he said , desperately . 
I never wrote more and said less in my life . 
It will make them weep at the office . 
The only news element in it is , that the messengers have returned to report that the German vessel is not in sight , and that there is no news . 
They think she has gone for good . 
It's like playing with a live wire . 
My nervous system won't stand many more such shocks as those they gave us this morning . 
Gordon threw himself down dejectedly in a chair in the office , and Stedman approached his instrument gingerly , as though it might explode . 
He's swearing again , he explained , sadly , in answer to Gordon's look of inquiry . 
He wants to know when I am going to stop running away from the wire . 
I don't want any more messages than I've had . 
That's the best I can do , he said , as he threw his manuscript down beside Stedman . 
And they can keep on cabling until the wire burns red hot , and they won't get any more . 
There was silence in the office for some time , while Stedman looked over Gordon's copy , and Gordon stared dejectedly out at the ocean . 
This is pretty poor stuff , Gordon , said Stedman . 
It's like giving people milk when they want brandy . 
Don't you suppose I know that ? growled Gordon . 
It's the best I can do , isn't it ? It's not my fault that we are not all dead now . 
I can't massacre foreign residents if there are no foreign residents , but I can commit suicide , though , and I'll do it if something don't happen . 
There was a long pause , in which the silence of the office was only broken by the sound of the waves beating on the coral reefs outside . 
Stedman raised his head wearily . 
He's swearing again , he said he says this stuff of yours is all nonsense . 
What's he think I'm here for ? cried Gordon . 
Tell him just what the situation is in a few words . 
Wait send this to Octavia . 
Gordon wrote rapidly , and read what he wrote as rapidly as it was written . 
You seem to have misunderstood my first message . 
The facts in the case are these . 
A German man of war raised a flag on this island . 
It was pulled down and the American flag raised in its place and saluted by a brass cannon . 
The German man of war fired once at the flag and knocked it down , and then steamed away and has not been seen since . 
Two huts were upset , that is all the damage done the battery consisted of the one brass cannon before mentioned . 
No one , either native or foreign , has been massacred . 
The English residents are two sailors . 
The American residents are the young man who is sending you this cable and myself . 
Our first message was quite true in substance , but perhaps misleading in detail . 
I made it so because I fully expected much more to happen immediately . 
Nothing has happened , or seems likely to happen , and that is the exact situation up to date . 
Now , he asked , after a pause , what does he say to that ? He doesn't say anything , said Stedman . 
I guess he has fainted . 
Here it comes , he added in the same breath . 
He bent toward his instrument , and Gordon raised himself from his chair and stood beside him as he read it off . 
The two young men hardly breathed in the intensity of their interest . 
Dear Stedman , he slowly read aloud . 
You and your young friend are a couple of fools . 
If you had allowed me to send you the messages awaiting transmission here to you , you would not have sent me such a confession of guilt as you have just done . 
You had better leave Opeki at once or hide in the hills . 
You should have been wiser in your day , and bought Y. C. C. stock when it was down to five cents , as yours truly' did . 
You are not , Stedman , as bright a boy as some . 
And as for your friend , the war correspondent , he has queered himself for life . 
Stedman grew very white under his tan , and the perspiration rolled on his cheeks . 
This I have been doing while waiting for material from you . 
Not having a clear idea of the dimensions or population of Opeki , it is possible that I have done you and your newspaper friend some injustice . 
I killed off about a hundred American residents , two hundred English , because I do not like the English , and a hundred French . 
This he has most unkindly failed to do . 
And I leave Octavia this afternoon to reap my just reward . 
I am in about twenty thousand dollars on your little war , and I feel grateful . 
So much so that I will inform you that the ship of war Kaiser has arrived at San Francisco , for which port she sailed directly from Opeki . 
Her captain has explained the real situation , and offered to make every amend for the accidental indignity shown to our flag . 
He says he aimed at the cannon , which was trained on his vessel , and which had first fired on him . 
A word , my dear young friend , to the wise is sufficient . 
I am indebted to you to the extent of twenty thousand dollars , and in return I give you this kindly advice . 
If there is no other way , swim . 
From the south came a three decked vessel , a great island of floating steel , with a flag as red as the angry sky behind it , snapping in the wind . 
To the south of it plunged two long low lying torpedo boats , flying the French tri color , and still farther to the north towered three magnificent hulls of the White Squadron . 
Vengeance was written on every curve and line , on each straining engine rod , and on each polished gun muzzle . 
And in front of these , a clumsy fishing boat rose and fell on each passing wave . 
Stedman , said the elder boy , in an awe struck whisper , and with a wave of his hand , we have not lived in vain . 
