The Roadmender by Michael Fairless Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk The Roadmender I HAVE attained my ideal I am a roadmender , some say stonebreaker . 
Both titles are correct , but the one is more pregnant than the other . 
All day I sit by the roadside on a stretch of grass under a high hedge of saplings and a tangle of traveller's joy , woodbine , sweetbrier , and late roses . 
In our youth we discussed our ideals freely I wonder how many beside myself have attained , or would understand my attaining . 
Just now it is the summer of things there is life and music everywhere in the stones themselves , and I live to day beating out the rhythmical hammer song of The Ring . 
The robin that lives by the gate regards my heap of stones as subject to his special inspection . 
I stretched out my hand , picked it up unresisting , and put it in my coat like the husbandman of old . 
To me there is no suggestion of evil in the little silent creatures , harmless , or deadly only with the Death which is Life . 
It is old and decrepit two rooms , with a quasi attic over them reached by a ladder from the kitchen and reached only by me . 
Morning and night I serve with the Gibeonites , their curse my blessing , as no doubt it was theirs when their hearts were purged by service . 
The old widow with whom I lodge has been deaf for the last twenty years . 
She speaks in the strained high voice which protests against her own infirmity , and her eyes have the pathetic look of those who search in silence . 
For many years she lived alone with her son , who laboured on the farm two miles away . 
With my shilling a week rent , and sharing of supplies , we live in the lines of comfort . 
CHAPTER II ON Sundays my feet take ever the same way . 
There is a beautiful seemliness in the extreme youth of the priest who serves these aged children of God . 
He bends to communicate them with the reverent tenderness of a son , and reads with the careful intonation of far seeing love . 
I love the sea with its impenetrable fathoms , its wash and undertow , and rasp of shingle sucked anew . 
I love it for its secret dead in the Caverns of Peace , of which account must be given when the books are opened and earth and heaven have fled away . 
Monday brings the joy of work , second only to the Sabbath of rest , and I settle to my heap by the white gate . 
I am already white with dust as he with flour , sacramental dust , the outward and visible sign of the stir and beat of the heart of labouring life . 
Next to pass down the road is an anxious ruffled hen , her speckled breast astir with maternal troubles . 
She walks delicately , lifting her feet high and glancing furtively from side to side with comb low dressed . 
I know her feelings too well to intrude . 
At last , with the courage of despair she has resolved to brave the terrors of the unknown and seek a haunt beyond the tyranny of man . 
Here is my stone song , a paraphrase of the Treasure Motif . 
Music score which cannot be reproduced . 
It is F dotted crotchet , F quaver , F quaver , F dotted crotchet , D crotchet , E crotchet . 
This bar is then repeated once more . 
The Pilgrim's March is the sad sound of footsore men the San Graal the tremulous yearning of servitude for richer , deeper bondage . 
Two tramps come and fling themselves by me as I eat my noonday meal . 
The one , red eyed , furtive , lies on his side with restless , clutching hands that tear and twist and torture the living grass , while his lips mutter incoherently . 
For himself , he is determined to die on the road under a hedge , where a man can see and breathe . 
His anxiety is all for his fellow HE has said he will do for a man he wants to swing , to get out of his dog's life . 
I watch him as he lies , this Ishmael and would be Lamech . 
Ignorance , hunger , terror , the exhaustion of past generations , have done their work . 
The man is mad , and would kill his fellowman . 
Presently we part , and the two go , dogged and footsore , down the road which is to lead them into the great silence . 
CHAPTER III YESTERDAY was a day of encounters . 
First , early in the morning , a young girl came down the road on a bicycle . 
Her dressguard was loose , and she stopped to ask for a piece of string . 
I bared my head , and stood hat in hand looking after her as she rode away up the hill . 
Then I took my treasure and put it in a nest of cool dewy grass under the hedge . 
My next visitor was a fellow worker on his way to a job at the cross roads . 
He stood gazing meditatively at my heap of stones . 
Ow long 'ave yer bin at this job that y'ere in such a hurry ? I stayed my hammer to answer Four months . 
Seen better days ? Never , I said emphatically , and punctuated the remark with a stone split neatly in four . 
The man surveyed me in silence for a moment then he said slowly , Mean ter say yer like crackin' these blamed stones to fill 'oles some other fool's made ? I nodded . 
Well , that beats everything . 
We fit the collar on unwilling necks and when their service is over we bid them go out free but we break the good Mosaic law and send them away empty . 
What wonder there is so little willing service , so few ears ready to be thrust through against the master's door . 
The swift stride of civilisation is leaving behind individual effort , and turning man into the Daemon of a machine . 
To and fro in front of the long loom , lifting a lever at either end , paces he who once with painstaking intelligence drove the shuttle . 
Once the reaper grasped the golden corn stems , and with dexterous sweep of sickle set free the treasure of the earth . 
As with the web and the grain so with the wood and stone in the treasure house of our needs . 
The ground was accursed FOR OUR SAKE that in the sweat of our brow we might eat bread . 
At noon , when I stopped for my meal , the sun was baking the hard white road in a pitiless glare . 
Several waggons and carts passed , the horses sweating and straining , with drooping , fly tormented ears . 
Then an old woman and a small child appeared in sight , both with enormous sun bonnets and carrying baskets . 
Then the shady hedge beckoned them and they came and sat down near me . 
The woman looked about seventy , tall , angular , dauntless , good for another ten years of hard work . 
She was not the least shy , but had the strange self possession which comes from associating with one who has travelled far on life's journey . 
Will you let her bide here till you come back ? I said . 
She'll be all right by me . 
Will 'ee stay by him , dearie ? she said . 
The small child nodded , drew from her miniature pocket a piece of sweetstuff , extracted from the basket a small black cat , and settled in for the afternoon . 
Her grandmother rose , took her basket , and , with a nod and Thank 'ee kindly , mister , went off down the road . 
He greeted me in a high , piping voice , limped across to the child , and sat down . 
Your little maid , mister ? he said . 
Ah , he said , I've left a little darlin' like this at 'ome . 
I looked at him a typical countryman , with white hair , mild blue eyes , and a rosy , childish , unwrinkled face . 
I'm eighty four , he went on , and terrible bad with the rheumatics and my chest . 
Maybe it'll not be long before the Lord remembers me . 
The child crept close and put a sticky little hand confidingly into the tired old palm . 
The two looked strangely alike , for the world seems much the same to those who leave it behind as to those who have but taken the first step on its circular pathway . 
'Ook at my kitty , she said , pointing to the small creature in her lap . 
Then , as the old man touched it with trembling fingers she went on 'Oo isn't my grandad he's away in the sky , but I'll kiss 'oo . 
When she saw my other visitor she stood amazed . 
I told the tale as I had heard it , and Mrs Jakes's indignation was good to see . 
No , Richard Hunton , you don't go to the House while I'm above ground it'd make my good man turn to think of it . 
You'll come 'ome with me and the little 'un there . 
I've my washin' , and a bit put by for a rainy day , and a bed to spare , and the Lord and the parson will see I don't come to want . 
She stopped breathless , her defensive motherhood in arms . 
The old man said quaveringly , in the pathetic , grudging phrase of the poor , which veils their gratitude while it testifies their independence , Maybe I might as well . 
He rose with difficulty , picked up his bundle and stick , the small child replaced the kitten in its basket , and thrust her hand in her new friend's . 
Then 'oo IS grandad tum back , she said . 
Mrs Jakes had been fumbling in her pocket , and extracted a penny , which she pressed on me . 
It's little enough , mister , she said . 
Then , as I tried to return it Nay , I've enough , and yours is poor paid work . 
CHAPTER IV YESTERDAY a funeral passed , from the work house at N , a quaint sepulture without solemnities . 
The rough , ungarnished coffin of stained deal lay bare and unsightly on the floor of an old market cart a woman sat beside , steadying it with her feet . 
The husband drove and the most depressed of the three was the horse , a broken kneed , flea bitten grey . 
It is strange how pagan many of us are in our beliefs . 
Strange how men shun him as he waits in the shadow , watching our puny straining after immortality , sending his comrade sleep to prepare us for himself . 
Very pleasant art thou , O Brother Death , thy love is wonderful , passing the love of women . 
To day I have lived in a whirl of dust . 
For the most part mystery has ceased for this working Western world , and with it reverence . 
Coventry Patmore says God clothes Himself actually and literally with His whole creation . 
In olden days the herd led his flock , going first in the post of danger to defend the creatures he had weaned from their natural habits for his various uses . 
Now that good relationship has ceased for us to exist , man drives the beasts before him , means to his end , but with no harmony between end and means . 
They are all trimmed as much as possible to one pattern , and all make the same sad plaint . 
It is a day on which to thank God for the unknown tongue . 
Of all the poor dumb pilgrims of the road the bullocks are the most terrible to see . 
They are not patient , but go most unwillingly with lowered head and furtive sideways motion , in their eyes a horror of great fear . 
The boys appear to recognise them as kindred spirits , and are curiously forbearing and patient . 
Soon both ponies and boys vanish in a white whirl , and a long line of carts , which had evidently waited for the dust to subside , comes slowly up the incline . 
For the most part they carry the pigs and fowls , carriage folk of the road . 
The latter are hot , crowded , and dusty under the open netting the former for the most part cheerfully remonstrative . 
I drew a breath of relief as the noise of wheels died away and my road sank into silence . 
The hedgerows are no longer green but white and choked with dust , a sight to move good sister Rain to welcome tears . 
The birds seem to have fled before the noisy confusion . 
Peace still reigned , for the shadows were lengthening , and there would be little more traffic for the fair . 
I turned to my work , grateful for the stillness , and saw on the white stretch of road a lone old man and a pig . 
I had , not the water I asked for , but milk and a bowl of sweet porridge for which I paid only thanks and stayed for a chat with my kindly hosts . 
They were a quaint old couple of the kind rarely met with nowadays . 
They enjoyed a little pension from the Squire and a garden in which vegetables and flowers lived side by side in friendliest fashion . 
Bees worked and sang over the thyme and marjoram , blooming early in a sunny nook and in a homely sty lived a solemn black pig , a pig with a history . 
It was no common utilitarian pig , but the honoured guest of the old couple , and it knew it . 
Hence the pig was sacred , cared for and loved by this Darby and Joan . 
I hailed the old man , and both turned aside but he gazed at me without remembrance . 
I spoke of the pig and its history . 
Ay , ay , lad , you've got it 'tis poor Dick's pig right enow . 
But you're never going to take it to E ? Ay , but I be , and comin' back alone , if the Lord be marciful . 
The missus has been terrible bad this two mouths and more Squire's in foreign parts and food stuffs such as the old woman wants is hard buying for poor folks . 
I dursn't tell her he was to go she'd sooner starve than lose poor Dick's pig . 
Well , we'd best be movin' 'tis a fairish step . 
The pig followed comprehending and docile , and as the quaint couple passed from sight I thought I heard Brother Death stir in the shadow . 
He is a strong angel and of great pity . 
The coppice at our back is full of birds , for it is far from the road and they nest there undisturbed year after year . 
Through the still night I heard the nightingales calling , calling , until I could bear it no longer and went softly out into the luminous dark . 
The little wood was manifold with sound , I heard my little brothers who move by night rustling in grass and tree . 
They will scarcely sing again this year , these nightingales , for they are late on the wing as it is . 
It seems as if on such nights they sang as the swan sings , knowing it to be the last time with the lavish note of one who bids an eternal farewell . 
At last there was silence . 
The grey dawn awoke and stole with trailing robes across earth's floor . 
I passed through the coppice and out into the fields beyond . 
There is something inexpressibly beautiful in the unused day , something beautiful in the fact that it is still untouched , unsoiled and town and country share alike in this loveliness . 
At half past three on a June morning even London has not assumed her responsibilities , but smiles and glows lighthearted and smokeless under the caresses of the morning sun . 
The bell rings out crisp and clear from the monastery where the Bedesmen of St Hugh watch and pray for the souls on this labouring forgetful earth . 
Every hour the note of comfort and warning cries across the land , tells the Sanctus , the Angelus , and the Hours of the Passion , and calls to remembrance and prayer . 
Sun and bell together are my only clock it is time for my water drawing and gathering a pile of mushrooms , children of the night , I hasten home . 
I once saw a tall cross in a seaboard churchyard , inscribed , To the memory of the unknown dead who have perished in these waters . 
There might be one in every village sleeping place to the unhonoured many who made fruitful the land with sweat and tears . 
My road has been lonely to day . 
A parson came by in the afternoon , a stranger in the neighbourhood , for he asked his way . 
Was it misfortune ? Nay , the best of good luck , I answered , gaily . 
The good man with beautiful readiness sat down on a heap of stones and bade me say on . 
Read me a sermon in stone , he said , simply and I stayed my hand to read . 
He listened with courteous intelligence . 
You hold a roadmender has a vocation ? he asked . 
As the monk or the artist , for , like both , he is universal . 
The world is his home he serves all men alike , ay , and for him the beasts have equal honour with the men . 
His soul is 'bound up in the bundle of life' with all other souls , he sees his father , his mother , his brethren in the children of the road . 
For him there is nothing unclean , nothing common the very stones cry out that they serve . 
It is all true , he said beautifully true . 
But need such a view of life necessitate the work of roadmending ? Surely all men should be roadmenders . 
No man is dependent on our earning , all men on our work . 
We are 'rich beyond the dreams of avarice' because we have all that we need , and yet we taste the life and poverty of the very poor . 
We are , if you will , uncloistered monks , preaching friars who speak not with the tongue , disciples who hear the wise words of a silent master . 
Robert Louis Stevenson was a roadmender , said the wise parson . 
Ay , and with more than his pen , I answered . 
I wonder was he ever so truly great , so entirely the man we know and love , as when he inspired the chiefs to make a highway in the wilderness . 
Surely no more fitting monument could exist to his memory than the Road of Gratitude , cut , laid , and kept by the pure blooded tribe kings of Samoa . 
He knew that the people who make no roads are ruled out from intelligent participation in the world's brotherhood . 
He filled his pipe , thinking the while , then he held out his pouch to me . 
Try some of this baccy , he said Sherwood of Magdalen sent it me from some outlandish place . 
It was such tobacco as falls to the lot of few roadmenders . 
I wish I could come and break stones , he said , a little wistfully . 
Nay , said I , few men have such weary roadmending as yours , and perhaps you need my road less than most men , and less than most parsons . 
We shook hands , and he went down the road and out of my life . 
He little guessed that I knew Sherwood , ay , and knew him too , for had not Sherwood told me of the man he delighted to honour . 
Ah , well ! I am no Browning Junior , and Sherwood's name is not Sherwood . 
CHAPTER VI A WHILE ago I took a holiday mouched , played truant from my road . 
Jem walked at the leaders' heads it is his rule when the waggon is empty , a rule no company will make him break . 
I lay as in a blissful dream and watched my road unfold . 
I left Jem to his business with the miller and wandered down the flowery meadow to listen to the merry clack of the stream and the voice of the waters on the weir . 
The great wheel was at rest , as I love best to see it in the later afternoon the splash and churn of the water belong rather to the morning hours . 
I watched and wondered until Jem called , and I had to leave the rippling weir and the water's side , and the wheel with its untold secret . 
Autumn is here and it is already late . 
He has painted the hedges russet and gold , scarlet and black , and a tangle of grey now he has damp brown leaves in his hair and frost in his finger tips . 
When the harvesting is over , the fruit gathered , the last rick thatched , there comes a pause . 
Earth strips off her bright colours and shows a bare and furrowed face the dead leaves fall gently and sadly through the calm , sweet air grey mists drape the fields and hedges . 
For the last twenty years we have waged war with suffering a noble war when fought in the interest of the many , but fraught with great danger to each individual man . 
We are still paying the price of that knowledge suffering in both kinds is a substantial part of it , and brings its own healing . 
There is an old couple in our village who are past work . 
The married daughter has made shift to take her mother and the parish half crown , but there is neither room nor food for the father , and he must go to N . 
If husband and wife went together , they would be separated at the workhouse door . 
The parting had to come it came yesterday . 
I saw them stumbling lamely down the road on their last journey together , walking side by side without touch or speech , seeing and heeding nothing but a blank future . 
As they passed me the old man said gruffly , 'Tis far eno' better be gettin' back but the woman shook her head , and they breasted the hill together . 
Now it is my turn , and I must leave the wayside to serve in the sheepfolds during the winter months . 
It is scarcely a farewell , for my road is ubiquitous , eternal there are green ways in Paradise and golden streets in the beautiful City of God . 
Farewell ! It is a roadmender's word I cry you Godspeed to the next milestone and beyond . 
But now the veil was held aside and one went by crowned with the majesty of years , wearing the ermine of an unstained rule , the purple of her people's loyalty . 
The night goers passed under my window in silence , neither song nor shout broke the welcome dark next morning the workmen who went by were strangely quiet . 
'VICTORIA DEI GRATIA BRITANNIARUM REGINA . 
Years ago , I , standing at a level crossing , saw her pass . 
The train slowed down and she caught sight of the gatekeeper's little girl who had climbed the barrier . 
In sterner mood , when Love's hand held a scourge , I craved rather the stress of the moorland with its bleaker mind imperative of sacrifice . 
A wild waste moor a vast void sky and naught between heaven and earth but man , his sin glazed eyes seeking afar the distant light of his own heart . 
Thou shalt have none other gods but me . 
For the loneliness of the moorland , there is the warmth and companionship of London's swift beating heart . 
For silence there is sound the sound and stir of service for the most part far in excess of its earthly equivalent . 
Against the fragrant incense of the pines I set the honest sweat of the man whose lifetime is the measure of his working day . 
The burden of corporate sin , the sword of corporate sorrow , the joy of corporate righteousness thus we become citizens in the Kingdom of God , and companions of all his creatures . 
It is not good that the man should be alone , said the Lord God . 
I live now as it were in two worlds , the world of sight , and the world of sound and they scarcely ever touch each other . 
Then the great barges pass with their coffined treasure , drawn by a small self righteous steam tug . 
At night I see them again , silent , mysterious searching the darkness with unwinking yellow stare , led by a great green light . 
The river has been uniformly grey of late , with no wind to ruffle its surface or to speed the barges dropping slowly and sullenly down with the tide through a blurring haze . 
I watched one yesterday , its useless sails half furled and no sign of life save the man at the helm . 
It drifted stealthily past , and a little behind , flying low , came a solitary seagull , grey as the river's haze a following bird . 
A follerin' burrd , he said . 
I got up , and looked across the blue field we were ploughing into white furrows . 
Far away a tiny sail scarred the great solitude , and astern came a gull flying slowly close to the water's breast . 
Daddy Whiddon waved his pipe towards it . 
A follerin' burrd , he said , again and again I waited questions were not grateful to him . 
There be a carpse there , sure enough , a carpse driftin' and shiftin' on the floor of the sea . 
There be those as can't rest , poor sawls , and her'll be mun , her'll be mun , and the sperrit of her is with the burrd . 
The clumsy boom swung across as we changed our course , and the water ran from us in smooth reaches on either side the bird flew steadily on . 
What will the spirit do ? I said . 
The old man looked at me gravely . 
Her'll rest in the Lard's time , in the Lard's gude time but now her'll just be follerin' on with the burrd . 
The gull was flying close to us now , and a cold wind swept the sunny sea . 
I shivered Daddy looked at me curiously . 
There be reason enough to be cawld if us did but knaw it , but I he mos' used to 'em , poor sawls . 
He shaded his keen old blue eyes , and looked away across the water . 
There be a skule comin' , and by my sawl 'tis mackerel they be drivin' . 
Again we changed our tack , and each taking an oar , pulled lustily for the beach . 
Please God her'll break inshore , said Daddy Whiddon and he shouted the news to the idle waiting men who hailed us . 
In a moment all was stir , for the fishing had been slack . 
Two boats put out with the lithe brown seine . 
The dark line had turned , but the school was still behind , churning the water in clumsy haste they were coming in . 
Then the brit broke in silvery leaping waves on the shelving beach . 
The curtain of river haze falls back barge and bird are alike gone , and the lamplighter has lit the first gas lamp on the far side of the bridge . 
Every night I watch him come , his progress marked by the great yellow eyes that wake the dark . 
And then when the desolation was complete , across the wasted valley where the starveling cattle scarcely longed to browse , came the dreadful chariot and Persephone . 
The day of the prisoner of Hades had dawned and as the sun flamed slowly up to light her thwarted eyes the world sprang into blossom at her feet . 
We can never be too Pagan when we are truly Christian , and the old myths are eternal truths held fast in the Church's net . 
Prometheus fetched fire from Heaven , to be slain forever in the fetching and lo , a Greater than Prometheus came to fire the cresset of the Cross . 
Demeter waits now patiently enough . 
Lume e lassu , che visibile face lo creatore a quella creatura , che solo in lui vedere ha la sua pace . 
Immediately outside my window is a lime tree a little black skeleton of abundant branches in which sparrows congregate to chirp and bicker . 
Farther away I have a glimpse of graceful planes , children of moonlight and mist their dainty robes , still more or less unsullied , gleam ghostly in the gaslight athwart the dark . 
The little wet sparrows are for the moment equally transformed , for the sun turns their dun coloured coats to a ruddy bronze , and cries Chrysostom as it kisses each shiny beak . 
Last night there was a sudden clatter of hoofs , a shout , and then silence . 
A runaway cab horse , a dark night , a wide crossing , and a heavy burden so death came to a poor woman . 
A rude but painless death the misery lay in her life for this woman worn , white haired , and wrinkled had but fifty years to set against such a condition . 
Was it her own fault ? If so , the greater pathos . 
It was once my privilege to know an old organ grinder named Gawdine . 
One day to Gawdine sober came a little dirty child , who clung to his empty trouser leg he had lost a limb years before with a persistent unintelligible request . 
Two days later Gawdine fell under a passing dray which inflicted terrible internal injuries on him . 
He continued to drink it did not come within his new code to stop , since he could carry his liquor well but he rarely , if ever , swore . 
In between them are Chaucer's name children , prim little daisies , peering wideawake from green grass . 
This same grass has a history which I have heard . 
The result from the standpoint of conventional art is indeed disastrous but my sympathy and gratitude are with the painter . 
It takes no pattern , it obeys no recognised law it is like a beautiful creature of a thousand wayward moods , and its voice is like nothing else in the wide world . 
It is a phase , and will melt into other phases but it tends to the increase of artificiality , and exists not only in art but in everything . 
It is a delightful book to leave about , with its vellum binding , dainty ribbons , and the hallmark of a great publisher's name . 
Set this sober aphorism against the school girl love making which kisses a man's feet and gaily refuses him the barren honour of having loved her first . 
There is scant need for the apologia which precedes the letters a few pages dispels the fear that we are prying into another's soul . 
King Cophetua , who sends profoundly grateful remembrances , has most surely written the letters he would wish to receive . 
Mrs Meynell ! cries one reviewer , triumphantly . 
And so by way of the Queen's garden I come back to my room again . 
But now sun and moon greet me only indirectly , and under the red roses hang pictures , some of them the dear companions of my days . 
Opposite me is the Arundel print of the Presentation , painted by the gentle Brother of the Angels . 
Priest Simeon , a stately figure in green and gold , great with prophecy , gazes adoringly at the Bambino he holds with fatherly care . 
St Joseph , dignified guardian and servitor , stands behind , holding the Sacrifice of the Poor to redeem the First begotten . 
St Peter Martyr and the Dominican nun , gazing in rapt contemplation at the scene , are not one whit surprised to find themselves in the presence of eternal mysteries . 
Underneath , with a leap across the centuries , is Rossetti's picture Dante this time the onlooker , Beatrice , in her pale beauty , the death kissed one . 
Beatrice was to Dante the inclusion of belief . 
She was more to him than he himself knew , far more to him after her death than before . 
And , therefore , the analogy between the pictures has at core a common reality . 
The eternal mysteries come into time for us individually under widely differing forms . 
There is but one necessary condition of this finding we must follow the particular manifestation of light given us , never resting until it rests over the place of the Child . 
And there is but one insurmountable hindrance , the extinction of or drawing back from the light truly apprehended by us . 
We forget this , and judge other men by the light of our own soul . 
I think the old bishop must have understood it . 
The faithful sculptor has given every line and wrinkle , the heavy eyelids and sunken face of tired old age , but withal the smile of a contented child . 
CHAPTER IV ON Sunday my little tree was limned in white and the sparrows were craving shelter at my window from the blizzard . 
Now the mild thin air brings a breath of spring in its wake and the daffodils in the garden wait the kisses of the sun . 
The air was sharp set a delicate rime frosted roof and road the sea lay hazy and still like a great pearl . 
Then as the sky stirred with flush upon flush of warm rosy light , it passed from misty pearl to opal with heart of flame , from opal to gleaming sapphire . 
The earth called , the fields called , the river called that pied piper to whose music a man cannot stop his ears . 
It was with me as with the Canterbury pilgrims So priketh hem nature in hir corages Than longen folk to gon on pilgrimages . 
Half an hour later I was away by the early train that carries the branch mails and a few workmen , and was delivered at the little wayside station with the letters . 
A great blackbird flew out with a loud chook , chook , and the red of the haw on his yellow bill . 
There before me lay spring's pageant green pennons waving , dainty maids curtseying , and a host of joyous yellow trumpeters proclaiming 'Victory' to an awakened earth . 
Through the field gate and across the road I see them , starring the steep earth bank that leads to the upper copse , gleaming like pale flames against the dark tree boles . 
There they have but frail tenure here , in the meadows , they reign supreme . 
At the upper end of the field the river provides yet closer sanctuary for these children of the spring . 
Thou sayest that I am a King , said the Lord before Pilate , and My kingdom is not of this world . 
Presently another of spring's lovers cried across the water Cuckoo , cuckoo , and the voice of the stream sang joyously in unison . 
Under the old grey rocks which watch it rise , yellow eyed tormantil stars the turf , and bids Godspeed to the little child of earth and sky . 
The river of God is full of water . 
The streets of the City are pure gold . 
Verily , here also having nothing we possess all things . 
The air was keen and still as I walked back in the early evening , and a daffodil light was in the sky as if Heaven mirrored back earth's radiance . 
Near the station some children flitted past , like little white miller moths homing through the dusk . 
As I climbed the hill the moon rode high in a golden field it was daffodils to the last . 
CHAPTER V THE seagulls from the upper reaches pass down the river in sober steady flight seeking the open sea . 
My little tree is gemmed with buds , shy , immature , but full of promise . 
We are in our sorrow that which we have made ourselves in our sin our temptations are there as well as the way of escape . 
We are in the image of God . 
We create our world , our undying selves , our heaven , or our hell . 
QUI CREAVIT TE SINE TE NON SALVABIT TE SINE TE . 
It is stupendous , magnificent , and most appalling . 
A man does not change as he crosses the threshold of the larger room . 
His personality remains the same , although the expression of it may be altered . 
Here we have material bodies in a material world there , perhaps , ether bodies in an ether world . 
There is no indecency in reasonable speculation and curiosity about the life to come . 
One end of the thread is between our fingers , but we are haunted for the most part by the snap of Atropos' shears . 
Socrates faced death with the magnificent calm bred of dignified familiarity . 
He is not troubled by doubts or regrets , for the path of the just lies plain before his face . 
His friends may bury him provided they will remember they are not burying Socrates and that all things may be done decently and in order , a cock must go to AEsculapius . 
Long before , in the days of the Captivity , there lived in godless , blood shedding Nineveh an exiled Jew whose father had fallen from the faith . 
Consider what alms doeth , and how righteousness doth deliver . 
And bury me decently , and thy mother with me . 
Having so said , he went his way quietly and contentedly to the Jerusalem of his heart . 
It is the simple note of familiarity that is wanting in us that by which we link world with world . 
Once , years ago , I sat by the bedside of a dying man in a wretched garret in the East End . 
He was entirely ignorant , entirely quiescent , and entirely uninterested . 
The minister of a neighbouring chapel came to see him and spoke to him at some length of the need for repentance and the joys of heaven . 
After he had gone my friend lay staring restlessly at the mass of decrepit broken chimney pots which made his horizon . 
At last he spoke , and there was a new note in his voice Ee said as 'ow there were golding streets in them parts . 
I ain't no ways particler wot they're made of , but it'll feel natral like if there's chimleys too . 
The sun stretched a sudden finger and painted the chimney pots red and gold against the smoke dimmed sky , and with his face alight with surprised relief my friend died . 
We are one with the earth , one in sin , one in redemption . 
It is the fringe of the garment of God . 
If I may but touch the hem , said a certain woman . 
The Tree of Life bears Bread and Wine food of the wayfaring man . 
The day of divisions is past , the day of unity has dawned . 
One has risen from the dead , and in the Valley of Achor stands wide the Door of Hope the Sacrament of Death . 
Scio Domine , et vere scio . 
quia non sum dignus accedere ad tantum mysterium propter nimia peccata mea et infinitas negligentias meas . 
quia tu potes me facere dignum . 
Necessity can set me helpless on my back , but she cannot keep me there nor can four walls limit my vision . 
I pass out from under her throne into the garden of God a free man , to my ultimate beatitude or my exceeding shame . 
No sound comes from without but the voice of the night wind and the cry of the hour . 
The pause is wonderful while it lasts , but it is not for long . 
The working world awakes , the poorer brethren take up the burden of service the dawn lights the sky remembrance cries an end to forgetting . 
Sometimes in the country on a night in early summer you may shut the cottage door to step out into an immense darkness which palls heaven and earth . 
Going forward into the embrace of the great gloom , you are as a babe swaddled by the hands of night into helpless quiescence . 
Shut in by the intangible dark , we are brought up against those worlds within worlds blotted out by our concrete daily life . 
It was this world which Jacob saw on the first night of his exile , and again when he wrestled in Peniel until the break of day . 
It is the material counterpart of the 'Night of the Soul . 
We have left our house and set forth in the darkness which paralyses those faculties that make us men in the world of men . 
But surely the great mystics , with all their insight and heavenly love , fell short when they sought freedom in complete separateness from creation instead of in perfect unity with it . 
The Greeks knew better when they flung Ariadne's crown among the stars , and wrote Demeter's grief on a barren earth , and Persephone's joy in the fruitful field . 
For the earth is gathered up in man he is the whole which is greater than the sum of its parts . 
Dust and ashes and a house of devils , he cries and there comes back for answer , REX CONCUPISCET DECOREM TUAM . 
It is a place of healing and preparation , of peace and refreshing after the sharply defined outlines of a garish day . 
Walking there we learn to use those natural faculties of the soul which are hampered by the familiarity of bodily progress , to apprehend the truths which we have intellectually accepted . 
The Greeks borrowed and debased the image , turning the inscrutable into a semi woman who asked a foolish riddle , and hurled herself down in petulant pride when OEdipus answered aright . 
It was not the theft of fire that brought the vengeance of heaven upon Prometheus , but the mocking sacrifice . 
Orpheus lost Eurydice because he must see her face before the appointed time . 
Persephone ate of the pomegranate and hungered in gloom for the day of light which should have been endless . 
The universe is full of miracle and mystery the darkness and silence are set for a sign we dare not despise . 
The pall of night lifts , leaving us engulphed in the light of immensity under a tossing heaven of stars . 
The dawn breaks , but it does not surprise us , for we have watched from the valley and seen the pale twilight . 
Vere Ierusalem est illa civitas Cuius pax iugis et summa iucunditas Ubi non praevenit rem desiderium , Nec desiderio minus est praemium . 
AT THE WHITE GATE CHAPTER I A GREAT joy has come to me one of those unexpected gifts which life loves to bestow after we have learnt to loose our grip of her . 
Away down the meadow I hear the early scythe song , and the warm air is fragrant with the fallen grass . 
It has its own message for me as I lie here , I who have obtained yet one more mercy , and the burden of it is life , not death . 
I remember when , taking a grace from my road , I helped to mow Farmer Marler's ten acre field , rich in ripe upstanding grass . 
The mechanism of the ancient reaper had given way under the strain of the home meadows , and if this crop was to be saved it must be by hand . 
I have kept the record of those days of joyous labour under a June sky . 
'Tis again nature , he said , the Lard gave us the land an' the seed , but 'Ee said that a man should sweat . 
He spoke of the rural exodus and shook his head mournfully . 
Ay , 'tis better to stay by the land , as the Lard said , till time comes to lie under it . 
We took rank again and swept steadily on through the hot still hours into the evening shadows , until the sinking sun set a GLORIA to the psalm of another working day . 
The women joined us on the third day to begin haymaking , and the air was fragrant of tossed and sun dried grass . 
One of them walked apart from the rest , without interest or freedom of movement her face , sealed and impassive , was aged beyond the vigour of her years . 
I knew the woman by sight , and her history by hearsay . 
but the child that has never been 'fathered' and the wife without a ring are 'anathema , and such in one was Elizabeth Banks . 
She went away a maid and came back a year ago with a child and without a name . 
Old Dodden , seeing her , grumbled to me in the rest time . 
Can't think what the farmer wants wi' Lizzie Banks in 'is field . 
She must live , I said , and by all showing her life is a hard one . 
She 'ad the makin' of 'er bed , he went on , obstinately . 
What for do she bring her disgrace home , wi' a fatherless brat for all folks to see ? We don't want them sort in our village . 
The Lord's hand is heavy , an' a brat's a curse that cannot be hid . 
When tea time came I crossed the field to look for a missing hone , and saw Elizabeth Banks far from the other women , busied with a bundle under the hedge . 
I passed close on my search , and lo ! the bundle was a little boy . 
He lay smiling and stretching , fighting the air with his small pink fists , while the wind played with his curls . 
A curse that cannot be hid , old Dodden had said . 
The mother knelt a moment , devouring him with her eyes , then snatched him to her with aching greed and covered him with kisses . 
The evening sky was clouding fast , the sound of rain was in the air Farmer Marler shook his head as he looked at the grass lying in ordered rows . 
Even so He came , and shall still come . 
SAY UNTO YOUR SISTERS RUHAMAH , cries the prophet . 
HE SHALL COME DOWN LIKE RAIN ON THE MOWN GRASS , sang the poet of the sheepfolds . 
MY WAYS ARE NOT YOUR WAYS , SAITH THE LORD . 
CHAPTER II THIS garden is an epitome of peace sun and wind , rain , flowers , and birds gather me into the blessedness of their active harmony . 
London claimed all my philosophy , but the country gives all , and asks of me only the warm receptivity of a child in its mother's arms . 
Beyond the low hedge lies pasture bright with buttercups , where the cattle feed . 
The birds are noisy comrades and old friends , from the lark which chants the dew steeped morning , to the nightingale that breaks the silence of the most wonderful nights . 
I hear the wisdom of the rooks in the great elms the lifting lilt of the linnet , and the robin's quaint little summer song . 
To day I am out again and the great sycamore showers honey and flowers on me as I lie beneath it . 
Sometimes a bee falls like an over ripe fruit , and waits awhile to clean his pollen coated legs ere he flies home to discharge his burden . 
Looking across I can watch the martins at work they have a starling and a sparrow for near neighbours in the wooden gutter . 
One nest is already complete all but the coping , the other two are a building I wonder whether I or they will be first to go south through the mist . 
This great tree is a world in itself , and the denizens appear full of curiosity as to the Gulliver who has taken up his abode beneath it . 
Pale green caterpillars and spiders of all sizes come spinning down to visit me , and have to be persuaded with infinite difficulty to ascend their threads again . 
There are flies with beautiful iridescent wings , beetles of all shapes , some of them like tiny jewels in the sunlight . 
Nature knows naught of the web of Penelope , that acme of anxious pathetic waiting , but goes steadily on in ever widening circle towards the fulfilment of the mystery of God . 
LIBERA ME AB FUSCINA HOPHNI , prayed the good Bishop fearful of religious greed . 
It is a time of exceeding peace . 
I am most gladly in debt to all the world and to Earth , my mother , for her great beauty . 
It is a grave matter that the word religion holds such away among us , making the very gap seem to yawn again which the Incarnation once and for ever filled full . 
We have done away with mystery , or named it deceit . 
CHAPTER III ONCE again I have paid a rare visit to my tree to find many things changed since my last sojourn there . 
The bees are silent , for the honey laden flowers of the sycamore are gone and in their place hang dainty two fold keys . 
The poplar has lost its metallic shimmer , the chestnut its tall white candles and the sound of the wind in the fully leaved branches is like the sighing of the sea . 
The robins show promise of their ruddy vests , the slim young thrush is diligently practising maturer notes , and soon Maid June will have fled . 
Knowledge will give place to understanding in that second chamber of the House of Wisdom and Love . 
Revelation is always measured by capacity Open thy mouth wide , and it shall be filled with a satisfaction that in itself is desire . 
There is a child here , a happy quiet little creature holding gently to its two months of life . 
Sometimes they lay it beside me , I the more helpless of the two perhaps the more ignorant and equally dependent for the supply of my smallest need . 
I feel indecently large as I survey its minute perfections and the tiny balled fist lying in my great palm . 
It is wonderful to watch a woman's rapturous familiarity with these newcomers . 
A man's love has far more awe in it , and the passionate animal instinct of defence is wanting in him . 
She is the prisoner of love , caught in a net of her own weaving held fast by little hands which rule by impotence , pursued by feet the swifter for their faltering . 
It seems incredible that this is what a woman will barter for the right to live her own life surely the most empty of desires . 
Man VIR , woman FEMINA , go to make up THE man HOMO . 
There can be no comparison , no rivalry between them they are the complement of each other , and a little child shall lead them . 
It is easy to understand that desire to shelter under the dear mantle of motherhood which has led to one of the abuses of modern Romanism . 
I met an old peasant couple at Bornhofen who had tramped many weary miles to the famous shrine of Our Lady to plead for their only son . 
Superstitious misapprehension if you will , but also the recognition of a divine principle . 
The Brother Ambrose was ever a saintly man approved of God and beloved by the Brethren . 
And Brother Ambrose arose and was carried to a great and high mountain , even as in the Vision of Blessed John . 
Then between the stars came the Holy City with roof and pinnacle aflame , and walls aglow with such colours as no earthly limner dreams of , and much gold . 
As I write the monastery bell hard by rings out across the lark's song . 
They still have time for visions behind those guarding walls , but for most of us it is not so . 
Lying here in this quiet backwater it is hard to believe that the world without is turbulent with storm and stress and the ebb and flow of uncertain tides . 
And yet , looking back to the working days , I know how much goodness and loving kindness there is under the froth and foam . 
If we do not know ourselves we most certainly do not know our brethren that revelation awaits us , it may be , first in Heaven . 
To have faith is to create to have hope is to call down blessing to have love is to work miracles . 
It is our prerogative to be dreamers , but there will always be men ready to offer us death for our dreams . 
The grass grows greener as I watch it , the burnt patches fade , a thousand thirsty beads are uplifted for the cooling draught . 
The blackbirds and starlings find the worms an easy prey poor brother worm ever ready for sacrifice . 
My little brown brothers , the sparrows , remain my chief delight . 
Of all the birds these nestle closest to my heart , be they grimy little cockneys or their trim and dainty country cousins . 
Very early in the morning I hear the whirr and rustle of eager wings , and the tap , tap , of little beaks upon the stone . 
Looking along the roadway that we have travelled we see the landmarks , great and small , which have determined the direction of our feet . 
There was the night of my great disappointment , when I was borne from my comfortable bed to see the wonders of the moon's eclipse . 
Disappointment was so great that it sealed my lips but , once back on my pillow , I sobbed for grief that I had seen a wonder so far below my expectation . 
Then there was a night at Whitby , when the wind made speech impossible , and the seas rushed up and over the great lighthouse like the hungry spirits of the deep . 
I like better to remember the scent of the first cowslip field under the warm side of the hedge , when I sang to myself for pure joy of their colour and fragrance . 
Time sped , and there came a day when I first set foot on German soil and felt the throb of its paternity , the beat of our common Life . 
England is my mother , and most dearly do I love her swelling breasts and wind swept , salt strewn hair . 
Scotland gave me my name , with its haunting derivation handed down by brave men but Germany has always been to me the Fatherland PAR EXCELLENCE . 
The forest holds other wonders still . 
It seems but last night that I wandered down the road which led to the little unheeded village where I had made my temporary home . 
The tiny shifting lamps were everywhere pale yellow , purely white , or green as the underside of a northern wave . 
By day but an ugly , repellent worm but darkness comes , and lo , a star alight . 
Nature is full for us of seeming inconsistencies and glad surprises . 
The world's asleep , say you on your ear falls the nightingale's song and the stir of living creatures in bush and brake . 
It is hard to turn one's back on night with her kiss of peace for tired eye lids , the kiss which is not sleep but its neglected forerunner . 
Switzerland came in its turn , unearthly in its white loveliness and glory of lake and sky . 
It was my first and what need of another , for finding one I had gazed into the mystery of all . 
This side the Pass , snow and the blue of heaven later I entered Italy through fields of many hued lilies , her past glories blazoned in the flowers of the field . 
Now it is a strangely uneventful road that leads to my White Gate . 
Each day questions me as it passes each day makes answer for me not yet . 
There is no material preparation to be made for this journey of mine into a far country a simple fact which adds to the 'unknowableness' of the other side . 
They had abused the gift , and fled self condemned . 
Here , too , come acolytes lighting the dark with tapers sun , moon , and stars gifts of the Lord that His sanctuary may stand ever served . 
At the gateway then I cry you farewell . 
