Rasselas , Prince of Abyssinia by Samuel Johnson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk Rasselas , Prince of Abyssinia CHAPTER I DESCRIPTION OF A PALACE IN A VALLEY . 
All animals that bite the grass or browse the shrubs , whether wild or tame , wandered in this extensive circuit , secured from beasts of prey by the mountains which confined them . 
All the diversities of the world were brought together , the blessings of nature were collected , and its evils extracted and excluded . 
Every desire was immediately granted . 
Thus every year produced new scenes of delight , and new competitors for imprisonment . 
The palace stood on an eminence , raised about thirty paces above the surface of the lake . 
It was divided into many squares or courts , built with greater or less magnificence according to the rank of those for whom they were designed . 
Many of the columns had unsuspected cavities , in which a long race of monarchs had deposited their treasures . 
CHAPTER II THE DISCONTENT OF RASSELAS IN THE HAPPY VALLEY . 
They wandered in gardens of fragrance , and slept in the fortresses of security . 
Every art was practised to make them pleased with their own condition . 
To heighten their opinion of their own felicity , they were daily entertained with songs , the subject of which was the Happy Valley . 
Their appetites were excited by frequent enumerations of different enjoyments , and revelry and merriment were the business of every hour , from the dawn of morning to the close of the evening . 
His attendants observed the change , and endeavoured to renew his love of pleasure . 
The singularity of his humour made him much observed . 
One of the sages , in whose conversation he had formerly delighted , followed him secretly , in hope of discovering the cause of his disquiet . 
I am hungry and thirsty , like him , but when thirst and hunger cease , I am not at rest . 
I am , like him , pained with want , but am not , like him , satisfied with fulness . 
The intermediate hours are tedious and gloomy I long again to be hungry that I may again quicken the attention . 
I likewise can call the lutist and the singer but the sounds that pleased me yesterday weary me to day , and will grow yet more wearisome to morrow . 
I can discover in me no power of perception which is not glutted with its proper pleasure , yet I do not feel myself delighted . 
Man surely has some latent sense for which this place affords no gratification or he has some desire distinct from sense , which must be satisfied before he can be happy . 
After this he lifted up his head , and seeing the moon rising , walked towards the palace . 
He mingled cheerfully in the diversions of the evening , and all rejoiced to find that his heart was lightened . 
CHAPTER III THE WANTS OF HIM THAT WANTS NOTHING . 
You , sir , said the sage , are the first who has complained of misery in the Happy Valley . 
I hope to convince you that your complaints have no real cause . 
When I see the kids and the lambs chasing one another , I fancy that I should be happy if I had something to pursue . 
But , possessing all that I can want , I find one day and one hour exactly like another , except that the latter is still more tedious than the former . 
I have already enjoyed too much give me something to desire . 
The old man was surprised at this new species of affliction , and knew not what to reply , yet was unwilling to be silent . 
Sir , said he , if you had seen the miseries of the world , you would know how to value your present state . 
Now , said the Prince , you have given me something to desire . 
I shall long to see the miseries of the world , since the sight of them is necessary to happiness . 
CHAPTER IV THE PRINCE CONTINUES TO GRIEVE AND MUSE AT this time the sound of music proclaimed the hour of repast , and the conversation was concluded . 
The old man went away sufficiently discontented to find that his reasonings had produced the only conclusion which they were intended to prevent . 
The Prince , whose views were extended to a wider space , could not speedily quiet his emotions . 
The first beam of hope that had been ever darted into his mind rekindled youth in his cheeks , and doubled the lustre of his eyes . 
He was fired with the desire of doing something , though he knew not yet , with distinctness , either end or means . 
Thus passed twenty months of the life of Rasselas . 
So strongly was the image impressed upon his mind that he started up in the maid's defence , and ran forward to seize the plunderer with all the eagerness of real pursuit . 
Fear naturally quickens the flight of guilt . 
Here he recollected himself , and smiled at his own useless impetuosity . 
Then raising his eyes to the mountain , This , said he , is the fatal obstacle that hinders at once the enjoyment of pleasure and the exercise of virtue . 
He now felt a degree of regret with which he had never been before acquainted . 
He considered how much might have been done in the time which had passed , and left nothing real behind it . 
He compared twenty months with the life of man . 
In life , said he , is not to be counted the ignorance of infancy or imbecility of age . 
We are long before we are able to think , and we soon cease from the power of acting . 
The true period of human existence may be reasonably estimated at forty years , of which I have mused away the four and twentieth part . 
I only have made no advances , but am still helpless and ignorant . 
The moon , by more than twenty changes , admonished me of the flux of life the stream that rolled before my feet upbraided my inactivity . 
I sat feasting on intellectual luxury , regardless alike of the examples of the earth and the instructions of the planets . 
He for a few hours regretted his regret , and from that time bent his whole mind upon the means of escaping from the Valley of Happiness . 
CHAPTER V THE PRINCE MEDITATES HIS ESCAPE . 
HE now found that it would be very difficult to effect that which it was very easy to suppose effected . 
He was now impatient as an eagle in a grate . 
He passed week after week in clambering the mountains to see if there was any aperture which the bushes might conceal , but found all the summits inaccessible by their prominence . 
He returned discouraged and dejected but having now known the blessing of hope , resolved never to despair . 
In these fruitless researches he spent ten months . 
The time , however , passed cheerfully away in the morning he rose with new hope in the evening applauded his own diligence and in the night slept soundly after his fatigue . 
He met a thousand amusements , which beguiled his labour and diversified his thoughts . 
But his original curiosity was not yet abated he resolved to obtain some knowledge of the ways of men . 
His wish still continued , but his hope grew less . 
CHAPTER VI A DISSERTATION ON THE ART OF FLYING . 
By a wheel which the stream turned he forced the water into a tower , whence it was distributed to all the apartments of the palace . 
He erected a pavilion in the garden , around which he kept the air always cool by artificial showers . 
He came one day to amuse himself in his usual manner , and found the master busy in building a sailing chariot . 
He saw that the design was practicable upon a level surface , and with expressions of great esteem solicited its completion . 
The workman was pleased to find himself so much regarded by the Prince , and resolved to gain yet higher honours . 
Sir , said he , you have seen but a small part of what the mechanic sciences can perform . 
This hint rekindled the Prince's desire of passing the mountains . 
I am afraid , said he to the artist , that your imagination prevails over your skill , and that you now tell me rather what you wish than what you know . 
Every animal has his element assigned him the birds have the air , and man and beasts the earth . 
So , replied the mechanist , fishes have the water , in which yet beasts can swim by nature and man by art . 
He that can swim needs not despair to fly to swim is to fly in a grosser fluid , and to fly is to swim in a subtler . 
We are only to proportion our power of resistance to the different density of matter through which we are to pass . 
You will be necessarily up borne by the air if you can renew any impulse upon it faster than the air can recede from the pressure . 
But the exercise of swimming , said the Prince , is very laborious the strongest limbs are soon wearied . 
I am afraid the act of flying will be yet more violent and wings will be of no great use unless we can fly further than we can swim . 
All this , said the Prince , is much to be desired , but I am afraid that no man will be able to breathe in these regions of speculation and tranquillity . 
Nothing , replied the artist , will ever be attempted if all possible objections must be first overcome . 
If you will favour my project , I will try the first flight at my own hazard . 
I have considered the structure of all volant animals , and find the folding continuity of the bat's wings most easily accommodated to the human form . 
Upon this model I shall begin my task to morrow , and in a year expect to tower into the air beyond the malice and pursuit of man . 
But I will work only on this condition , that the art shall not be divulged , and that you shall not require me to make wings for any but ourselves . 
If men were all virtuous , returned the artist , I should with great alacrity teach them to fly . 
A flight of northern savages might hover in the wind and light with irresistible violence upon the capital of a fruitful reason . 
He visited the work from time to time , observed its progress , and remarked many ingenious contrivances to facilitate motion and unite levity with strength . 
The artist was every day more certain that he should leave vultures and eagles behind him , and the contagion of his confidence seized upon the Prince . 
His wings , which were of no use in the air , sustained him in the water and the Prince drew him to land half dead with terror and vexation . 
CHAPTER VII THE PRINCE FINDS A MAN OF LEARNING . 
THE Prince was not much afflicted by this disaster , having suffered himself to hope for a happier event only because he had no other means of escape in view . 
He still persisted in his design to leave the Happy Valley by the first opportunity . 
The lake overflowed its banks , and all the level of the valley was covered with the inundation . 
The eminence on which the palace was built , and some other spots of rising ground , were all that the eye could now discover . 
The herds and flocks left the pasture , and both the wild beasts and the tame retreated to the mountains . 
This inundation confined all the princes to domestic amusements , and the attention of Rasselas was particularly seized by a poem upon the various conditions of humanity . 
He asked a thousand questions about things to which , though common to all other mortals , his confinement from childhood had kept him a stranger . 
As he was going to begin his narrative , Rasselas was called to a concert , and obliged to restrain his curiosity till the evening . 
CHAPTER VIII THE HISTORY OF IMLAC . 
Rasselas then called for his companion , and required him to begin the story of his life . 
Sir , said Imlac , my history will not be long the life that is devoted to knowledge passes silently away , and is very little diversified by events . 
To talk in public , to think in solitude , to read and to hear , to inquire and answer inquiries , is the business of a scholar . 
He wanders about the world without pomp or terror , and is neither known nor valued but by men like himself . 
I was born in the kingdom of Goiama , at no great distance from the fountain of the Nile . 
My father was a wealthy merchant , who traded between the inland countries of Africa and the ports of the Red Sea . 
Surely , said the Prince , my father must be negligent of his charge if any man in his dominions dares take that which belongs to another . 
Does he not know that kings are accountable for injustice permitted as well as done ? If I were Emperor , not the meanest of my subjects should he oppressed with impunity . 
My blood boils when I am told that a merchant durst not enjoy his honest gains for fear of losing them by the rapacity of power . 
Name the governor who robbed the people that I may declare his crimes to the Emperor ! Sir , said Imlac , your ardour is the natural effect of virtue animated by youth . 
The time will come when you will acquit your father , and perhaps hear with less impatience of the governor . 
Oppression is , in the Abyssinian dominions , neither frequent nor tolerated but no form of government has been yet discovered by which cruelty can be wholly prevented . 
Subordination supposes power on one part and subjection on the other and if power be in the hands of men it will sometimes be abused . 
The vigilance of the supreme magistrate may do much , but much will still remain undone . 
He can never know all the crimes that are committed , and can seldom punish all that he knows . 
This , said the Prince , I do not understand but I had rather hear thee than dispute . 
Inconsistencies , answered Imlac , cannot both be right but , imputed to man , they may both be true . 
Yet diversity is not inconsistency . 
My father might expect a time of greater security . 
However , some desire is necessary to keep life in motion and he whose real wants are supplied must admit those of fancy . 
This , said the Prince , I can in some measure conceive . 
I repent that I interrupted thee . 
With this hope , proceeded Imlac , he sent me to school . 
At length my father resolved to initiate me in commerce and , opening one of his subterranean treasuries , counted out ten thousand pieces of gold . 
'This , young man , said he , 'is the stock with which you must negotiate . 
I began with less than a fifth part , and you see how diligence and parsimony have increased it . 
This is your own , to waste or improve . 
We laid out our money upon camels , concealed in bales of cheap goods , and travelled to the shore of the Red Sea . 
When I cast my eye on the expanse of waters , my heart bounded like that of a prisoner escaped . 
I felt an inextinguishable curiosity kindle in my mind , and resolved to snatch this opportunity of seeing the manners of other nations , and of learning sciences unknown in Abyssinia . 
I had no motives of choice to regulate my voyage . 
It was sufficient for me that , wherever I wandered , I should see a country which I had not seen before . 
I therefore entered a ship bound for Surat , having left a letter for my father declaring my intention . 
CHAPTER IX THE HISTORY OF IMLAC . 
I then descended into the ship , and doubted for awhile whether all my future pleasures would not end , like this , in disgust and disappointment . 
'Yet surely , said I , 'the ocean and the land are very different . 
The only variety of water is rest and motion . 
I was almost weary of my naval amusements when we safely landed at Surat . 
I secured my money and , purchasing some commodities for show , joined myself to a caravan that was passing into the inland country . 
They were my enemies because they grieved to think me rich , and my oppressors because they delighted to find me weak . 
Proceed , said the Prince I doubt not of the facts which you relate , but imagine that you impute them to mistaken motives . 
In this company , said Imlac , I arrived at Agra , the capital of Hindostan , the city in which the Great Mogul commonly resides . 
To the tutor of the young princes I recommended myself so much that I was presented to the Emperor as a man of uncommon knowledge . 
My credit was now so high that the merchants with whom I had travelled applied to me for recommendations to the ladies of the Court . 
I was surprised at their confidence of solicitation and greatly reproached them with their practices on the road . 
They heard me with cold indifference , and showed no tokens of shame or sorrow . 
Having resided at Agra till there was no more to be learned , I travelled into Persia , where I saw many remains of ancient magnificence and observed many new accommodations of life . 
The Persians are a nation eminently social , and their assemblies afforded me daily opportunities of remarking characters and manners , and of tracing human nature through all its variations . 
WHEREVER I went I found that poetry was considered as the highest learning , and regarded with a veneration somewhat approaching to that which man would pay to angelic nature . 
I was desirous to add my name to this illustrious fraternity . 
I read all the poets of Persia and Arabia , and was able to repeat by memory the volumes that are suspended in the mosque of Mecca . 
But I soon found that no man was ever great by imitations . 
My desire of excellence impelled me to transfer my attention to nature and to life . 
Nature was to be my subject , and men to be my auditors . 
I could never describe what I had not seen . 
I could not hope to move those with delight or terror whose interests and opinions I did not understand . 
Being now resolved to be a poet , I saw everything with a new purpose my sphere of attention was suddenly magnified no kind of knowledge was to be overlooked . 
I ranged mountains and deserts for images and resemblances , and pictured upon my mind every tree of the forest and flower of the valley . 
I observed with equal care the crags of the rock and the pinnacles of the palace . 
Sometimes I wandered along the mazes of the rivulet , and sometimes watched the changes of the summer clouds . 
To a poet nothing can be useless . 
Whatever is beautiful and whatever is dreadful must be familiar to his imagination he must be conversant with all that is awfully vast or elegantly little . 
All the appearances of nature I was therefore careful to study , and every country which I have surveyed has contributed something to my poetical powers . 
In so wide a survey , said the Prince , you must surely have left much unobserved . 
I have lived till now within the circuit of the mountains , and yet cannot walk abroad without the sight of something which I had never beheld before , or never heeded . 
This business of a poet , said Imlac , is to examine , not the individual , but the species to remark general properties and large appearances . 
He does not number the streaks of the tulip , or describe the different shades of the verdure of the forest . 
But the knowledge of nature is only half the task of a poet he must be acquainted likewise with all the modes of life . 
He must , therefore , content himself with the slow progress of his name , contemn the praise of his own time , and commit his claims to the justice of posterity . 
His labour is not yet at an end . 
CHAPTER XI IMLAC'S NARRATIVE A HINT OF PILGRIMAGE . 
To be a poet , said Imlac , is indeed very difficult . 
So difficult , returned the Prince , that I will at present hear no more of his labours . 
Tell me whither you went when you had seen Persia . 
When I compared these men with the natives of our own kingdom and those that surround us , they appeared almost another order of beings . 
They are more powerful , sir , than we , answered Imlac , because they are wiser knowledge will always predominate over ignorance , as man governs the other animals . 
But why their knowledge is more than ours I know not what reason can be given but the unsearchable will of the Supreme Being . 
Pilgrimage , said Imlac , like many other acts of piety , may be reasonable or superstitious , according to the principles upon which it is performed . 
Long journeys in search of truth are not commanded . 
Truth , such as is necessary to the regulation of life , is always found where it is honestly sought . 
Change of place is no natural cause of the increase of piety , for it inevitably produces dissipation of mind . 
These , said the Prince , are European distinctions . 
I will consider them another time . 
Knowledge is certainly one of the means of pleasure , as is confessed by the natural desire which every mind feels of increasing its ideas . 
I am therefore inclined to conclude that if nothing counteracts the natural consequence of learning , we grow more happy as out minds take a wider range . 
In enumerating the particular comforts of life , we shall find many advantages on the side of the Europeans . 
They cure wounds and diseases with which we languish and perish . 
We suffer inclemencies of weather which they can obviate . 
They have engines for the despatch of many laborious works , which we must perform by manual industry . 
There is such communication between distant places that one friend can hardly be said to be absent from another . 
Their policy removes all public inconveniences they have roads cut through the mountains , and bridges laid over their rivers . 
And , if we descend to the privacies of life , their habitations are more commodious and their possessions are more secure . 
They are surely happy , said the Prince , who have all these conveniences , of which I envy none so much as the facility with which separated friends interchange their thoughts . 
The Europeans , answered Imlac , are less unhappy than we , but they are not happy . 
Human life is everywhere a state in which much is to be endured and little to be enjoyed . 
CHAPTER XII THE STORY OF IMLAC . 
I would injure no man , and should provoke no resentments I would relieve every distress , and should enjoy the benedictions of gratitude . 
I would choose my friends among the wise and my wife among the virtuous , and therefore should be in no danger from treachery or unkindness . 
My children should by my care be learned and pious , and would repay to my age what their childhood had received . 
Let us leave them and pursue our journey . 
From Palestine , said Imlac , I passed through many regions of Asia in the more civilised kingdoms as a trader , and among the barbarians of the mountains as a pilgrim . 
When this thought had taken possession of my mind , I considered every moment as wasted which did not bring me nearer to Abyssinia . 
I hastened into Egypt , and , notwithstanding my impatience , was detained ten months in the contemplation of its ancient magnificence and in inquiries after the remains of its ancient learning . 
From Cairo I travelled to Suez , and embarked on the Red Sea , passing along the coast till I arrived at the port from which I had departed twenty years before . 
Here I joined myself to a caravan , and re entered my native country . 
But I was soon convinced that my thoughts were vain . 
My father had been dead fourteen years , having divided his wealth among my brothers , who were removed to some other provinces . 
Of my companions , the greater part was in the grave of the rest , some could with difficulty remember me , and some considered me as one corrupted by foreign manners . 
A man used to vicissitudes is not easily dejected . 
I opened a school , and was prohibited to teach . 
Wearied at last with solicitation and repulses , I resolved to hide myself for ever from the world , and depend no longer on the opinion or caprice of others . 
Hast thou here found happiness at last ? said Rasselas . 
Great Prince , said Imlac , I shall speak the truth . 
I know not one of all your attendants who does not lament the hour when he entered this retreat . 
I am less unhappy than the rest , because I have a mind replete with images , which I can vary and combine at pleasure . 
I can amuse my solitude by the renovation of the knowledge which begins to fade from my memory , and by recollection of the accidents of my past life . 
Yet all this ends in the sorrowful consideration that my acquirements are now useless , and that none of my pleasures can be again enjoyed . 
The rest , whose minds have no impression but of the present moment , are either corroded by malignant passions or sit stupid in the gloom of perpetual vacancy . 
There may be community , said Imlac , of material possessions , but there can never be community of love or of esteem . 
The invitations by which they allure others to a state which they feel to be wretched , proceed from the natural malignity of hopeless misery . 
They are weary of themselves and of each other , and expect to find relief in new companions . 
They envy the liberty which their folly has forfeited , and would gladly see all mankind imprisoned like themselves . 
From this crime , however , I am wholly free . 
No man can say that he is wretched by my persuasion . 
I look with pity on the crowds who are annually soliciting admission to captivity , and wish that it were lawful for me to warn them of their danger . 
My dear Imlac , said the Prince , I will open to thee my whole heart . 
I have long meditated an escape from the Happy Valley . 
Sir , answered the poet , your escape will be difficult , and perhaps you may soon repent your curiosity . 
Amidst wrongs and frauds , competitions and anxieties , you will wish a thousand times for these seats of quiet , and willingly quit hope to be free from fear . 
Do not seek to deter me from my purpose , said the Prince . 
I am impatient to see what thou hast seen and since thou art thyself weary of the valley , it is evident that thy former state was better than this . 
Whatever be the consequence of my experiment , I am resolved to judge with mine own eyes of the various conditions of men , and then to make deliberately my CHOICE OF LIFE . 
I am afraid , said Imlac , you are hindered by stronger restraints than my persuasions yet , if your determination is fixed , I do not counsel you to despair . 
Few things are impossible to diligence and skill . 
CHAPTER XIII RASSELAS DISCOVERS THE MEANS OF ESCAPE . 
THE Prince now dismissed his favourite to rest but the narrative of wonders and novelties filled his mind with perturbation . 
He revolved all that he had heard , and prepared innumerable questions for the morning . 
Much of his uneasiness was now removed . 
He had a friend to whom he could impart his thoughts , and whose experience could assist him in his designs . 
His heart was no longer condemned to swell with silent vexation . 
He thought that even the Happy Valley might be endured with such a companion , and that if they could range the world together he should have nothing further to desire . 
In a few days the water was discharged , and the ground dried . 
The Prince and Imlac then walked out together , to converse without the notice of the rest . 
The master of mechanics laughs at strength . 
I can burst the gate , but cannot do it secretly . 
Some other expedient must be tried . 
We may escape by piercing the mountain in the same direction . 
We will begin where the summit hangs over the middle part , and labour upward till we shall issue out beyond the prominence . 
The eyes of the Prince , when he heard this proposal , sparkled with joy . 
The execution was easy and the success certain . 
No time was now lost . 
They hastened early in the morning to choose a place proper for their mine . 
They clambered with great fatigue among crags and brambles , and returned without having discovered any part that favoured their design . 
Imlac procured instruments proper to hew stone and remove earth , and they fell to their work on the next day with more eagerness than vigour . 
They were presently exhausted by their efforts , and sat down to pant upon the grass . 
The Prince for a moment appeared to be discouraged . 
Sir , said his companion , practice will enable us to continue our labour for a longer time . 
Mark , however , how far we have advanced , and ye will find that our toil will some time have an end . 
Great works are performed not by strength , but perseverance yonder palace was raised by single stones , yet you see its height and spaciousness . 
He that shall walk with vigour three hours a day , will pass in seven years a space equal to the circumference of the globe . 
They returned to their work day after day , and in a short time found a fissure in the rock , which enabled them to pass far with very little obstruction . 
This Rasselas considered as a good omen . 
Whatever facilitates our work is more than an omen it is a cause of success . 
This is one of those pleasing surprises which often happen to active resolution . 
Many things difficult to design prove easy to performance . 
CHAPTER XIV RASSELAS AND IMLAC RECEIVE AN UNEXPECTED VISIT . 
He started , and stood confused , afraid to tell his design , and yet hopeless to conceal it . 
A few moments determined him to repose on her fidelity , and secure her secrecy by a declaration without reserve . 
Do not imagine , said the Princess , that I came hither as a spy . 
Since , then , not suspicion , but fondness , has detected you , let me not lose the advantage of my discovery . 
I am equally weary of confinement with yourself , and not less desirous of knowing what is done or suffered in the world . 
Permit me to fly with you from this tasteless tranquillity , which will yet grow more loathsome when you have left me . 
You may deny me to accompany you , but cannot hinder me from following . 
At length their labour was at an end . 
They saw light beyond the prominence , and , issuing to the top of the mountain , beheld the Nile , yet a narrow current , wandering beneath them . 
The Prince looked round with rapture , anticipated all the pleasures of travel , and in thought was already transported beyond his father's dominions . 
Imlac , though very joyful at his escape , had less expectation of pleasure in the world , which he had before tried and of which he had been weary . 
Rasselas was so much delighted with a wider horizon , that he could not soon be persuaded to return into the valley . 
He informed his sister that the way was now open , and that nothing now remained but to prepare for their departure . 
CHAPTER XV THE PRINCE AND PRINCESS LEAVE THE VALLEY , AND SEE MANY WONDERS . 
The Princess was followed only by a single favourite , who did not know whither she was going . 
They clambered through the cavity , and began to go down on the other side . 
The Princess and her maid turned their eyes toward every part , and seeing nothing to bound their prospect , considered themselves in danger of being lost in a dreary vacuity . 
The Prince felt nearly the same emotions , though he thought it more manly to conceal them . 
Imlac smiled at their terrors , and encouraged them to proceed . 
But the Princess continued irresolute till she had been imperceptibly drawn forward too far to return . 
In the morning they found some shepherds in the field , who set some milk and fruits before them . 
They travelled forward by easy journeys , being all unaccustomed to toil and difficulty , and knowing that , though they might be missed , they could not be pursued . 
In a few days they came into a more populous region , where Imlac was diverted with the admiration which his companions expressed at the diversity of manners , stations , and employments . 
By degrees the royal wanderers were taught to understand that they had for a time laid aside their dignity , and were to expect only such regard as liberality and courtesy could procure . 
And Imlac having by many admonitions prepared them to endure the tumults of a port and the ruggedness of the commercial race , brought them down to the sea coast . 
Imlac was content with their stay , because he did not think it safe to expose them , unpractised in the world , to the hazards of a foreign country . 
At last he began to fear lest they should be discovered , and proposed to fix a day for their departure . 
They had no pretensions to judge for themselves , and referred the whole scheme to his direction . 
He therefore took passage in a ship to Suez , and , when the time came , with great difficulty prevailed on the Princess to enter the vessel . 
They had a quick and prosperous voyage , and from Suez travelled by land to Cairo . 
CHAPTER XVI THEY ENTER CAIRO , AND FIND EVERY MAN HAPPY . 
You will here find men of every character and every occupation . 
I will act as a merchant , and you shall live as strangers who have no other end of travel than curiosity it will soon be observed that we are rich . 
They now entered the town , stunned by the noise and offended by the crowds . 
Instruction had not yet so prevailed over habit but that they wondered to see themselves pass undistinguished along the streets , and met by the lowest of the people without reverence or notice . 
His politeness attracted many acquaintances , and his generosity made him courted by many dependants . 
They studied the language two years , while Imlac was preparing to set before them the various ranks and conditions of mankind . 
He grew acquainted with all who had anything uncommon in their fortune or conduct . 
He frequented the voluptuous and the frugal , the idle and the busy , the merchants and the men of learning . 
For some time he thought choice needless , because all appeared to him really happy . 
Wherever he went he met gaiety and kindness , and heard the song of joy or the laugh of carelessness . 
I see them perpetually and unalterably cheerful , but feel my own mind restless and uneasy . 
I am unsatisfied with those pleasures which I seem most to court . 
I live in the crowds of jollity , not so much to enjoy company as to shun myself , and am only loud and merry to conceal my sadness . 
Every man , said Imlac , may by examining his own mind guess what passes in the minds of others . 
When you feel that your own gaiety is counterfeit , it may justly lead you to suspect that of your companions not to be sincere . 
We are long before we are convinced that happiness is never to be found , and each believes it possessed by others , to keep alive the hope of obtaining it for himself . 
Very few , said the poet , live by choice . 
I am pleased to think , said the Prince , that my birth has given me at least one advantage over others by enabling me to determine for myself . 
I have here the world before me . 
I will review it at leisure surely happiness is somewhere to be found . 
CHAPTER XVII THE PRINCE ASSOCIATES WITH YOUNG MEN OF SPIRIT AND GAIETY . 
RASSELAS rose next day , and resolved to begin his experiments upon life . 
To such societies he was readily admitted , but a few days brought him back weary and disgusted . 
The Prince soon concluded that he should never be happy in a course of life of which he was ashamed . 
He thought it unsuitable to a reasonable being to act without a plan , and to be sad or cheerful only by chance . 
Happiness , said he , must be something solid and permanent , without fear and without uncertainty . 
But his young companions had gained so much of his regard by their frankness and courtesy that he could not leave them without warning and remonstrance . 
My friends , said he , I have seriously considered our manners and our prospects , and find that we have mistaken our own interest . 
The first years of man must make provision for the last . 
He that never thinks , never can be wise . 
Perpetual levity must end in ignorance and intemperance , though it may fire the spirits for an hour , will make life short or miserable . 
They stared awhile in silence one upon another , and at last drove him away by a general chorus of continued laughter . 
The consciousness that his sentiments were just and his intention kind was scarcely sufficient to support him against the horror of derision . 
But he recovered his tranquillity and pursued his search . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE PRINCE FINDS A WISE AND HAPPY MAN . 
AS he was one day walking in the street he saw a spacious building which all were by the open doors invited to enter . 
He followed the stream of people , and found it a hall or school of declamation , in which professors read lectures to their auditory . 
He fixed his eye upon a sage raised above the rest , who discoursed with great energy on the government of the passions . 
His look was venerable , his action graceful , his pronunciation clear , and his diction elegant . 
He enumerated many examples of heroes immovable by pain or pleasure , who looked with indifference on those modes or accidents to which the vulgar give the names of good and evil . 
The lecturer hesitated a moment , when Rasselas put a purse of gold into his hand , which he received with a mixture of joy and wonder . 
He speaks , and attention watches his lips . 
He reasons , and conviction closes his periods . 
This man shall be my future guide I will learn his doctrines and imitate his life . 
Be not too hasty , said Imlac , to trust or to admire the teachers of morality they discourse like angels , but they live like men . 
Sir , said he , you are come at a time when all human friendship is useless what I suffer cannot be remedied what I have lost cannot be supplied . 
My daughter , my only daughter , from whose tenderness I expected all the comforts of my age , died last night of a fever . 
My views , my purposes , my hopes , are at an end I am now a lonely being , disunited from society . 
Young man , answered the philosopher , you speak like one that has never felt the pangs of separation . 
CHAPTER XIX A GLIMPSE OF PASTORAL LIFE . 
Imlac and the Princess agreed to accompany him , and after the necessary preparations , they began their journey . 
Their way lay through the fields , where shepherds tended their flocks and the lambs were playing upon the pasture . 
The proposal pleased them and they induced the shepherds , by small presents and familiar questions , to tell the opinion of their own state . 
CHAPTER XX THE DANGER OF PROSPERITY . 
ON the next day they continued their journey till the heat compelled them to look round for shelter . 
At a small distance they saw a thick wood , which they no sooner entered than they perceived that they were approaching the habitations of men . 
The laws of Eastern hospitality allowed them to enter , and the master welcomed them like a man liberal and wealthy . 
He was skilful enough in appearances soon to discern that they were no common guests , and spread his table with magnificence . 
The eloquence of Imlac caught his attention , and the lofty courtesy of the Princess excited his respect . 
When they offered to depart , he entreated their stay , and was the next day more unwilling to dismiss them than before . 
They were easily persuaded to stop , and civility grew up in time to freedom and confidence . 
My prosperity puts my life in danger the Bassa of Egypt is my enemy , incensed only by my wealth and popularity . 
I have sent my treasures into a distant country , and upon the first alarm am prepared to follow them . 
Then will my enemies riot in my mansion , and enjoy the gardens which I have planted . 
They all joined in lamenting his danger and deprecating his exile and the Princess was so much disturbed with the tumult of grief and indignation that she retired to her apartment . 
They continued with their kind inviter a few days longer , and then went to find the hermit . 
CHAPTER XXI THE HAPPINESS OF SOLITUDE THE HERMIT'S HISTORY . 
THEY came on the third day , by the direction of the peasants , to the hermit's cell . 
The hermit sat on a bench at the door , to enjoy the coolness of the evening . 
On one side lay a book with pens and paper on the other mechanical instruments of various kinds . 
As they approached him unregarded , the Princess observed that he had not the countenance of a man that had found or could teach the way to happiness . 
They saluted him with great respect , which he repaid like a man not unaccustomed to the forms of Courts . 
My children , said he , if you have lost your way , you shall be willingly supplied with such conveniences for the night as this cavern will afford . 
I have all that Nature requires , and you will not expect delicacies in a hermit's cell . 
They thanked him and , entering , were pleased with the neatness and regularity of the place . 
The hermit set flesh and wine before them , though he fed only upon fruits and water . 
His discourse was cheerful without levity , and pious without enthusiasm . 
He soon gained the esteem of his guests , and the Princess repented her hasty censure . 
To him that lives well , answered the hermit , every form of life is good nor can I give any other rule for choice than to remove all apparent evil . 
He will most certainly remove from evil , said the Prince , who shall devote himself to that solitude which you have recommended by your example . 
I have indeed lived fifteen years in solitude , said the hermit , but have no desire that my example should gain any imitators . 
In my youth I professed arms , and was raised by degrees to the highest military rank . 
I have traversed wide countries at the head of my troops , and seen many battles and sieges . 
I had once escaped from the pursuit of the enemy by the shelter of this cavern , and therefore chose it for my final residence . 
I employed artificers to form it into chambers , and stored it with all that I was likely to want . 
When the pleasure of novelty went away , I employed my hours in examining the plants which grow in the valley , and the minerals which I collected from the rocks . 
But that inquiry is now grown tasteless and irksome . 
My fancy riots in scenes of folly , and I lament that I have lost so much , and have gained so little . 
In solitude , if I escape the example of bad men , I want likewise the counsel and conversation of the good . 
I have been long comparing the evils with the advantages of society , and resolve to return into the world to morrow . 
The life of a solitary man will be certainly miserable , but not certainly devout . 
They heard his resolution with surprise , but after a short pause offered to conduct him to Cairo . 
He dug up a considerable treasure which he had hid among the rocks , and accompanied them to the city , on which , as he approached it , he gazed with rapture . 
CHAPTER XXII THE HAPPINESS OF A LIFE LED ACCORDING TO NATURE . 
RASSELAS went often to an assembly of learned men , who met at stated times to unbend their minds and compare their opinions . 
Some faults were almost general among them every one was pleased to hear the genius or knowledge of another depreciated . 
The sentiments of the hearers were various . 
Some were of opinion that the folly of his choice had been justly punished by condemnation to perpetual perseverance . 
One of the youngest among them , with great vehemence , pronounced him a hypocrite . 
Some talked of the right of society to the labour of individuals , and considered retirement as a desertion of duty . 
For the hope of happiness , said he , is so strongly impressed that the longest experience is not able to efface it . 
But the time will surely come when desire will no longer be our torment and no man shall be wretched but by his own fault . 
This , said a philosopher who had heard him with tokens of great impatience , is the present condition of a wise man . 
The time is already come when none are wretched but by their own fault . 
Nothing is more idle than to inquire after happiness which Nature has kindly placed within our reach . 
Other men may amuse themselves with subtle definitions or intricate ratiocination . 
When he had spoken he looked round him with a placid air , and enjoyed the consciousness of his own beneficence . 
Let me only know what it is to live according to Nature . 
When I find young men so humble and so docile , said the philosopher , I can deny them no information which my studies have enabled me to afford . 
The Prince soon found that this was one of the sages whom he should understand less as he heard him longer . 
CHAPTER XXIII THE PRINCE AND HIS SISTER DIVIDE BETWEEN THEM THE WORK OF OBSERVATION . 
RASSELAS returned home full of reflections , doubting how to direct his future steps . 
He communicated to Imlac his observations and his doubts , but was answered by him with new doubts and remarks that gave him no comfort . 
We have hitherto , said she , known but little of the world we have never yet been either great or mean . 
In our own country , though we had royalty , we had no power and in this we have not yet seen the private recesses of domestic peace . 
Imlac favours not our search , lest we should in time find him mistaken . 
We will divide the task between us you shall try what is to be found in the splendour of Courts , and I will range the shades of humbler life . 
CHAPTER XXIV THE PRINCE EXAMINES THE HAPPINESS OF HIGH STATIONS . 
RASSELAS applauded the design , and appeared next day with a splendid retinue at the Court of the Bassa . 
There can be no pleasure , said he , equal to that of feeling at once the joy of thousands all made happy by wise administration . 
These thoughts were often in his mind , and he found no solution of the difficulty . 
Many of those who surrounded the Bassa were sent only to watch and report his conduct every tongue was muttering censure , and every eye was searching for a fault . 
At last the letters of revocation arrived the Bassa was carried in chains to Constantinople , and his name was mentioned no more . 
The Sultan that had advanced him was murdered by the Janissaries , and his successor had other views or different favourites . 
CHAPTER XXV THE PRINCESS PURSUES HER INQUIRY WITH MORE DILIGENCE THAN SUCCESS . 
THE Princess in the meantime insinuated herself into many families for there are few doors through which liberality , joined with good humour , cannot find its way . 
She found their thoughts narrow , their wishes low , and their merriment often artificial . 
Their pleasures , poor as they were , could not be preserved pure , but were embittered by petty competitions and worthless emulation . 
They were always jealous of the beauty of each other , of a quality to which solicitude can add nothing , and from which detraction can take nothing away . 
Many were in love with triflers like themselves , and many fancied that they were in love when in truth they were only idle . 
Their affection was not fixed on sense or virtue , and therefore seldom ended but in vexation . 
With these girls she played as with inoffensive animals , and found them proud of her countenance and weary of her company . 
The Princess and her brother commonly met in the evening in a private summerhouse on the banks of the Nile , and related to each other the occurrences of the day . 
As they were sitting together the Princess cast her eyes upon the river that flowed before her . 
Answer , said she , great father of waters , thou that rollest thy goods through eighty nations , to the invocations of the daughter of thy native king . 
Tell me if thou waterest through all thy course a single habitation from which thou dost not hear the murmurs of complaint . 
You are then , said Rasselas , not more successful in private houses than I have been in Courts . 
I did not seek ease among the poor , because I concluded that there it could not be found . 
But I saw many poor whom I had supposed to live in affluence . 
Poverty has in large cities very different appearances . 
It is often concealed in splendour and often in extravagance . 
It is the care of a very great part of mankind to conceal their indigence from the rest . 
They support themselves by temporary expedients , and every day is lost in contriving for the morrow . 
This , however , was an evil which , though frequent , I saw with less pain , because I could relieve it . 
Many , however , have been sincerely grateful without the ostentation of gratitude or the hope of other favours . 
CHAPTER XXVI THE PRINCESS CONTINUES HER REMARKS UPON PRIVATE LIFE . 
NEKAYAH , perceiving her brother's attention fixed , proceeded in her narrative . 
In families where there is or is not poverty there is commonly discord . 
If a kingdom be , as Imlac tells us , a great family , a family likewise is a little kingdom , torn with factions and exposed to revolutions . 
An unpractised observer expects the love of parents and children to be constant and equal . 
But this kindness seldom continues beyond the years of infancy in a short time the children become rivals to their parents . 
Benefits are allowed by reproaches , and gratitude debased by envy . 
Thus , some place their confidence in the father and some in the mother , and by degrees the house is filled with artifices and feuds . 
The colours of life in youth and age appear different , as the face of Nature in spring and winter . 
The old man trusts wholly to slow contrivance and gradual progression the youth expects to force his way by genius , vigour , and precipitance . 
The old man pays regard to riches , and the youth reverences virtue . 
The old man deifies prudence the youth commits himself to magnanimity and chance . 
Age looks with anger on the temerity of youth , and youth with contempt on the scrupulosity of age . 
I am unwilling to believe that the most tender of all relations is thus impeded in its effects by natural necessity . 
Domestic discord , answered she , is not inevitably and fatally necessary , but yet it is not easily avoided . 
We seldom see that a whole family is virtuous the good and the evil cannot well agree , and the evil can yet less agree with one another . 
Even the virtuous fall sometimes to variance , when their virtues are of different kinds and tending to extremes . 
In general , those parents have most reverence who most deserve it , for he that lives well cannot be despised . 
Many other evils infest private life . 
Some are the slaves of servants whom they have trusted with their affairs . 
Some are kept in continual anxiety by the caprice of rich relations , whom they cannot please and dare not offend . 
I have met , said the Princess , with many who live single for that reason , but I never found that their prudence ought to raise envy . 
They act as beings under the constant sense of some known inferiority that fills their minds with rancour and their tongues with censure . 
Marriage has many pains , but celibacy has no pleasures . 
What then is to be done ? said Rasselas . 
The more we inquire the less we can resolve . 
Surely he is most likely to please himself that has no other inclination to regard . 
CHAPTER XXVII DISQUISITION UPON GREATNESS . 
THE conversation had a short pause . 
The Prince , having considered his sister's observation , told her that she had surveyed life with prejudice and supposed misery where she did not find it . 
Your narrative , says he , throws yet a darker gloom upon the prospects of futurity . 
The predictions of Imlac were but faint sketches of the evils painted by Nekayah . 
I have been lately convinced that quiet is not the daughter of grandeur or of power that her presence is not to be bought by wealth nor enforced by conquest . 
It is evident that as any man acts in a wider compass he must be more exposed to opposition from enmity or miscarriage from chance . 
The discontent , said the Princess , which is thus unreasonable , I hope that I shall always have spirit to despise and you power to repress . 
Discontent , answered Rasselas , will not always be without reason under the most just and vigilant administration of public affairs . 
None , however attentive , can always discover that merit which indigence or faction may happen to obscure , and none , however powerful , can always reward it . 
Thus will recommendations sometimes prevail which were purchased by money or by the more destructive bribery of flattery and servility . 
The highest stations cannot therefore hope to be the abodes of happiness , which I would willingly believe to have fled from thrones and palaces to seats of humble privacy and placid obscurity . 
Whether perfect happiness would be procured by perfect goodness , said Nekayah , this world will never afford an opportunity of deciding . 
But this , at least , may be maintained , that we do not always find visible happiness in proportion to visible virtue . 
CHAPTER XXVIII RASSELAS AND NEKAYAH CONTINUE THEIR CONVERSATION . 
Let us not imagine evils which we do not feel , nor injure life by misrepresentations . 
On necessary and inevitable evils which overwhelm kingdoms at once all disputation is vain when they happen they must be endured . 
Let us cease to consider what perhaps may never happen , and what , when it shall happen , will laugh at human speculation . 
We will not endeavour to modify the motions of the elements or to fix the destiny of kingdoms . 
It is our business to consider what beings like us may perform , each labouring for his own happiness by promoting within his circle , however narrow , the happiness of others . 
I know not , said the Princess , whether marriage be more than one of the innumerable modes of human misery . 
You seem to forget , replied Rasselas , that you have , even now represented celibacy as less happy than marriage . 
Both conditions may be bad , but they cannot both be worse . 
Thus it happens , when wrong opinions are entertained , that they mutually destroy each other and leave the mind open to truth . 
I did not expect , answered , the Princess , to hear that imputed to falsehood which is the consequence only of frailty . 
To the mind , as to the eye , it is difficult to compare with exactness objects vast in their extent and various in their parts . 
Let us not add , said the Prince , to the other evils of life the bitterness of controversy , nor endeavour to vie with each other in subtilties of argument . 
We are employed in a search of which both are equally to enjoy the success or suffer by the miscarriage it is therefore fit that we assist each other . 
How the world is to be peopled , returned Nekayah , is not my care and need not be yours . 
I see no danger that the present generation should omit to leave successors behind them we are not now inquiring for the world , but for ourselves . 
CHAPTER XXIX THE DEBATE ON MARRIAGE . 
THE good of the whole , says Rasselas , is the same with the good of all its parts . 
I cannot forbear to flatter myself that prudence and benevolence will make marriage happy . 
The general folly of mankind is the cause of general complaint . 
A youth and maiden , meeting by chance or brought together by artifice , exchange glances , reciprocate civilities , go home and dream of one another . 
Having little to divert attention or diversify thought , they find themselves uneasy when they are apart , and therefore conclude that they shall be happy together . 
They marry , and discover what nothing but voluntary blindness before had concealed they wear out life in altercations , and charge Nature with cruelty . 
The daughter begins to bloom before the mother can be content to fade , and neither can forbear to wish for the absence of the other . 
Surely all these evils may be avoided by that deliberation and delay which prudence prescribes to irrevocable choice . 
In the variety and jollity of youthful pleasures , life may be well enough supported without the help of a partner . 
What reason cannot collect , and Nekayah , and what experiment has not yet taught , can be known only from the report of others . 
I have been told that late marriages are not eminently happy . 
This is a question too important to be neglected and I have often proposed it to those whose accuracy of remark and comprehensiveness of knowledge made their suffrages worthy of regard . 
When the desultory levity of youth has settled into regularity , it is soon succeeded by pride ashamed to yield , or obstinacy delighting to contend . 
Whenever I shall seek a wife , it shall be my first question whether she be willing to be led by reason . 
Thus it is , said Nekayah , that philosophers are deceived . 
There are a thousand familiar disputes which reason never can decide questions that elude investigation , and make logic ridiculous cases where something must be done , and where little can be said . 
Wretched would be the pair , above all names of wretchedness , who should be doomed to adjust by reason every morning all the minute details of a domestic day . 
I believe it will be found that those who marry late are best pleased with their children , and those who marry early with their partners . 
The union of these two affections , said Rasselas , would produce all that could be wished . 
Perhaps there is a time when marriage might unite them a time neither too early for the father nor too late for the husband . 
Those conditions which flatter hope and attract desire are so constituted that as we approach one we recede from another . 
There are goods so opposed that we cannot seize both , but by too much prudence may pass between them at too great a distance to reach either . 
This is often the fate of long consideration he does nothing who endeavours to do more than is allowed to humanity . 
Flatter not yourself with contrarieties of pleasure . 
Of the blessings set before you make your choice , and be content . 
CHAPTER XXX IMLAC ENTERS , AND CHANGES THE CONVERSATION . 
HERE Imlac entered , and interrupted them . 
Imlac , said Rasselas , I have been taking from the Princess the dismal history of private life , and am almost discouraged from further search . 
It seems to me , said Imlac , that while you are making the choice of life you neglect to live . 
The old Egyptians have left behind them monuments of industry and power before which all European magnificence is confessed to fade away . 
The ruins of their architecture are the schools of modern builders and from the wonders which time has spared we may conjecture , though uncertainly , what it has destroyed . 
My curiosity , said Rasselas , does not very strongly lead me to survey piles of stone or mounds of earth . 
My business is with man . 
I came hither not to measure fragments of temples or trace choked aqueducts , but to look upon the various scenes of the present world . 
The things that are now before us , said the Princess , require attention , and deserve it . 
To judge rightly of the present , we must oppose it to the past for all judgment is comparative , and of the future nothing can be known . 
The truth is that no mind is much employed upon the present recollection and anticipation fill up almost all our moments . 
Our passions are joy and grief , love and hatred , hope and fear . 
If we act only for ourselves , to neglect the study of history is not prudent . 
If we are entrusted with the care of others , it is not just . 
Ignorance , when it is voluntary , is criminal and he may properly be charged with evil who refused to learn how he might prevent it . 
, the extinction and resuscitation of arts , and the revolutions of the intellectual world . 
If accounts of battles and invasions are peculiarly the business of princes , the useful or elegant arts are not to be neglected those who have kingdoms to govern have understandings to cultivate . 
Example is always more efficacious than precept . 
A soldier is formed in war , and a painter must copy pictures . 
In this , contemplative life has the advantage . 
Great actions are seldom seen , but the labours of art are always at hand for those who desire to know what art has been able to perform . 
When the eye or the imagination is struck with any uncommon work , the next transition of an active mind is to the means by which it was performed . 
Here begins the true use of such contemplation . 
We enlarge our comprehension by new ideas , and perhaps recover some art lost to mankind , or learn what is less perfectly known in our own country . 
At least we compare our own with former times , and either rejoice at our improvements , or , what is the first motion towards good , discover our defects . 
I am willing , said the Prince , to see all that can deserve my search . 
And I , said the Princess , shall rejoice to learn something of the manners of antiquity . 
Of these the greatest is still standing , very little injured by time . 
Let us visit them to morrow , said Nekayah . 
I have often heard of the Pyramids , and shall not rest till I have seen them , within and without , with my own eyes . 
CHAPTER XXXI THEY VISIT THE PYRAMIDS . 
THE resolution being thus taken , they set out the next day . 
They laid tents upon their camels , being resolved to stay among the Pyramids till their curiosity was fully satisfied . 
When they came to the Great Pyramid they were astonished at the extent of the base and the height of the top . 
A concussion that should shatter the pyramid would threaten the dissolution of the continent . 
They measured all its dimensions , and pitched their tents at its foot . 
Pekuah , said the Princess , of what art thou afraid ? Of the narrow entrance , answered the lady , and of the dreadful gloom . 
I dare not enter a place which must surely be inhabited by unquiet souls . 
The original possessors of these dreadful vaults will start up before us , and perhaps shut us in for ever . 
She spoke , and threw her arms round the neck of her mistress . 
If all your fear be of apparitions , said the Prince , I will promise you safety . 
There is no danger from the dead he that is once buried will be seen no more . 
That the dead are seen no more , said Imlac , I will not undertake to maintain against the concurrent and unvaried testimony of all ages and of all nations . 
There is no people , rude or learned , among whom apparitions of the dead are not related and believed . 
That it is doubted by single cavillers can very little weaken the general evidence , and some who deny it with their tongues confess it by their fears . 
Yet I do not mean to add new terrors to those which have already seized upon Pekuah . 
There can be no reason why spectres should haunt the Pyramid more than other places , or why they should have power or will to hurt innocence and purity . 
Remember that you are the companion of the Princess of Abyssinia . 
If the Princess is pleased that her servant should die , returned the lady , let her command some death less dreadful than enclosure in this horrid cavern . 
You know I dare not disobey you I must go if you command me but if I once enter , I never shall come back . 
The Princess saw that her fear was too strong for expostulation or reproof , and , embracing her , told her that she should stay in the tent till their return . 
Pekuah was not yet satisfied , but entreated the Princess not to pursue so dreadful a purpose as that of entering the recesses of the Pyramids . 
Though I cannot teach courage , said Nekayah , I must not learn cowardice , nor leave at last undone what I came hither only to do . 
CHAPTER XXXII THEY ENTER THE PYRAMID . 
PEKUAH descended to the tents , and the rest entered the Pyramid . 
They passed through the galleries , surveyed the vaults of marble , and examined the chest in which the body of the founder is supposed to have been deposited . 
They then sat down in one of the most spacious chambers to rest awhile before they attempted to return . 
We have now , said Imlac , gratified our minds with an exact view of the greatest work of man , except the wall of China . 
Of the wall it is very easy to assign the motive . 
Their celerity and fierceness made the wall necessary , and their ignorance made it efficacious . 
But for the Pyramids , no reason has ever been given adequate to the cost and labour of the work . 
The narrowness of the chambers proves that it could afford no retreat from enemies , and treasures might have been reposited at far less expense with equal security . 
It seems to have been erected only in compliance with that hunger of imagination which preys incessantly upon life , and must be always appeased by some employment . 
Those who have already all that they can enjoy must enlarge their desires . 
I consider this mighty structure as a monument of the insufficiency of human enjoyments . 
But when they came to their train , they found every one silent and dejected the men discovered shame and fear in their countenances , and the women were weeping in their tents . 
What had happened they did not try to conjecture , but immediately inquired . 
The Princess was overpowered with surprise and grief . 
Rasselas , in the first heat of his resentment , ordered his servants to follow him , and prepared to pursue the robbers with his sabre in his hand . 
Sir , said Imlac , what can you hope from violence or valour ? The Arabs are mounted on horses trained to battle and retreat we have only beasts of burden . 
By leaving our present station we may lose the Princess , but cannot hope to regain Pekuah . 
In a short time the Turks returned , having not been able to reach the enemy . 
CHAPTER XXXIV THEY RETURN TO CAIRO WITHOUT PEKUAH . 
THERE was nothing to be hoped from longer stay . 
They hoped that some good would befall her wheresoever she was , and that their mistress would find another friend who might supply her place . 
The Princess made them no answer and they continued the form of condolence , not much grieved in their hearts that the favourite was lost . 
Next day the Prince presented to the Bassa a memorial of the wrong which he had suffered , and a petition for redress . 
The Bassa threatened to punish the robbers , but did not attempt to catch them nor indeed could any account or description be given by which he might direct the pursuit . 
It soon appeared that nothing would be done by authority . 
Imlac then endeavoured to gain some intelligence by private agents . 
He found many who pretended to an exact knowledge of all the haunts of the Arabs , and to regular correspondence with their chiefs , and who readily undertook the recovery of Pekuah . 
Of these , some were furnished with money for their journey , and came back no more some were liberally paid for accounts which a few days discovered to be false . 
But the Princess would not suffer any means , however improbable , to be left untried . 
While she was doing something , she kept her hope alive . 
As one expedient failed , another was suggested when one messenger returned unsuccessful , another was despatched to a different quarter . 
A thousand times she reproached herself with the easy compliance by which she permitted her favourite to stay behind her . 
Had not my fondness , said she , lessened my authority , Pekuah had not dared to talk of her terrors . 
She ought to have feared me more than spectres . 
A severe look would have overpowered her a peremptory command would have compelled obedience . 
Your tenderness for the timidity of Pekuah was generous and kind . 
When we act according to our duty , we commit the events to Him by whose laws our actions are governed , and who will suffer none to be finally punished for obedience . 
Man cannot so far know the connection of causes and events as that he may venture to do wrong in order to do right . 
When we pursue our end by lawful means , we may always console our miscarriage by the hope of future recompense . 
This , at least , said Imlac , is the present reward of virtuous conduct , that no unlucky consequence can oblige us to repent it . 
CHAPTER XXXV THE PRINCESS LANGUISHES FOR WANT OF PEKUAH . 
NEKAYAH , being thus reconciled to herself , found that no evil is insupportable but that which is accompanied with consciousness of wrong . 
She was from that time delivered from the violence of tempestuous sorrow , and sunk into silent pensiveness and gloomy tranquillity . 
The women by whom she was attended knew nothing of her real condition , and therefore she could not talk to them but with caution and reserve . 
She began to remit her curiosity , having no great desire to collect notions which she had no convenience of uttering . 
She had lost her taste of pleasure and her ambition of excellence and her mind , though forced into short excursions , always recurred to the image of her friend . 
She observed his backwardness , and commanded him to attend her . 
You are not , said she , to confound impatience with resentment , or to suppose that I charge you with negligence because I repine at your unsuccessfulness . 
I do not much wonder at your absence . 
I know that the unhappy are never pleasing , and that all naturally avoid the contagion of misery . 
Do not entangle your mind , said Imlac , by irrevocable determinations , nor increase the burden of life by a voluntary accumulation of misery . 
The weariness of retirement will continue to increase when the loss of Pekuah is forgot . 
That you have been deprived of one pleasure is no very good reason for rejection of the rest . 
Since Pekuah was taken from me , said the Princess , I have no pleasure to reject or to retain . 
She that has no one to love or trust has little to hope . 
She wants the radical principle of happiness . 
We may perhaps allow that what satisfaction this world can afford must arise from the conjunction of wealth , knowledge , and goodness . 
Wealth is nothing but as it is bestowed , and knowledge nothing but as it is communicated . 
How far solitude may admit goodness or advance it , I shall not , replied Imlac , dispute at present . 
Remember the confession of the pious hermit . 
You will wish to return into the world when the image of your companion has left your thoughts . 
That time , said Nekayah , will never come . 
The generous frankness , the modest obsequiousness , and the faithful secrecy of my dear Pekuah will always be more missed as I shall live longer to see vice and folly . 
But they who restrain themselves from receiving comfort do as the savages would have done had they put out their eyes when it was dark . 
Our minds , like our bodies , are in continual flux something is hourly lost , and something acquired . 
To lose much at once is inconvenient to either , but while the vital power remains uninjured , nature will find the means of reparation . 
At least , said the Prince , do not despair before all remedies have been tried . 
Nekayah thought this a reasonable demand , and made the promise to her brother , who had been obliged by Imlac to require it . 
CHAPTER XXXVI PEKUAH IS STILL REMEMBERED . 
By degrees she grew less scrupulous , and suffered any important and pressing avocation to delay the tribute of daily tears . 
She then yielded to less occasions , and sometimes forgot what she was indeed afraid to remember , and at last wholly released herself from the duty of periodical affliction . 
Her real love of Pekuah was not yet diminished . 
A thousand occurrences brought her back to memory , and a thousand wants , which nothing but the confidence of friendship can supply , made her frequently regretted . 
CHAPTER XXXVII THE PRINCESS HEARS NEWS OF PEKUAH . 
The Arab , whose revenue was plunder , was willing to restore her , with her two attendants , for two hundred ounces of gold . 
The price was no subject of debate . 
The Princess was in ecstasies when she heard that her favourite was alive , and might so cheaply be ransomed . 
She could not think of delaying for a moment Pekuah's happiness or her own , but entreated her brother to send back the messenger with the sum required . 
It is difficult to negotiate where neither will trust . 
But Imlac , after some deliberation , directed the messenger to propose that Pekuah should be conducted by ten horsemen to the monastery of St . 
Anthony , which is situated in the deserts of Upper Egypt , where she should be met by the same number , and her ransom should be paid . 
Rasselas was desirous to go with them but neither his sister nor Imlac would consent . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII THE ADVENTURES OF THE LADY PEKUAH . 
AT what time and in what manner I was forced away , said Pekuah , your servants have told you . 
The suddenness of the event struck me with surprise , and I was at first rather stupefied than agitated with any passion of either fear or sorrow . 
When the Arabs saw themselves out of danger , they slackened their course and as I was less harassed by external violence , I began to feel more uneasiness in my mind . 
I was suffered to sit with my maids apart from the rest , and none attempted to comfort or insult us . 
Here I first began to feel the full weight of my misery . 
The girls sat weeping in silence , and from time to time looked on me for succour . 
I knew not to what condition we were doomed , nor could conjecture where would be the place of our captivity , or whence to draw any hope of deliverance . 
Their tents were pitched and their fires kindled , and our chief was welcomed as a man much beloved by his dependents . 
We were received into a large tent , where we found women who had attended their husbands in the expedition . 
They set before us the supper which they had provided , and I ate it rather to encourage my maids than to comply with any appetite of my own . 
When the meat was taken away , they spread the carpets for repose . 
I was weary , and hoped to find in sleep that remission of distress which nature seldom denies . 
Ordering myself , therefore , to be undressed , I observed that the women looked very earnestly upon me , not expecting , I suppose , to see me so submissively attended . 
When my upper vest was taken off , they were apparently struck with the splendour of my clothes , and one of them timorously laid her hand upon the embroidery . 
She then went out , and in a short time came back with another woman , who seemed to be of higher rank and greater authority . 
In the morning , as I was sitting on the grass , the chief of the troop came towards me . 
I rose up to receive him , and he bowed with great respect . 
'Illustrious lady , said he , 'my fortune is better than I had presumed to hope I am told by my women that I have a princess in my camp . 
'Whoever or whencesoever you are , returned the Arab , 'your dress and that of your servants show your rank to be high and your wealth to be great . 
The violence of war admits no distinction the lance that is lifted at guilt and power will sometimes fall on innocence and gentleness . 
'How little , said I , 'did I expect that yesterday it should have fallen upon me ! 'Misfortunes , answered the Arab , 'should always be expected . 
If the eye of hostility could learn reverence or pity , excellence like yours had been exempt from injury . 
But the angels of affliction spread their toils alike for the virtuous and the wicked , for the mighty and the mean . 
He said he would consider what he should demand , and then , smiling , bowed and retired . 
Soon after the women came about me , each contending to be more officious than the other , and my maids themselves were served with reverence . 
We travelled onward by short journeys . 
I never knew the power of gold before . 
From that time I was the leader of the troop . 
The march of every day was longer or shorter as I commanded , and the tents were pitched where I chose to rest . 
Walls supply stones more easily than quarries and palaces and temples will be demolished to make stables of granite and cottages of porphyry . 
CHAPTER XXXIX THE ADVENTURES OF PEKUAH . 
I was pleased with their pleasure , and animated with their confidence . 
My condition had lost much of its terror , since I found that the Arab ranged the country merely to get riches . 
'Lady , said the Arab , 'you shall rest after your journey a few weeks in this place , where you are to consider yourself as Sovereign . 
My occupation is war I have therefore chosen this obscure residence , from which I can issue unexpected , and to which I can retire unpursued . 
You may now repose in security here are few pleasures , but here is no danger . 
He then led me into the inner apartments , and seating me on the richest couch , bowed to the ground . 
Being again comforted with new assurances of speedy liberty , I was for some days diverted from impatience by the novelty of the place . 
The turrets overlooked the country to a great distance , and afforded a view of many windings of the stream . 
The crocodiles and river horses are common in this unpeopled region and I often looked upon them with terror , though I knew they could not hurt me . 
At night the Arab always attended me to a tower set apart for celestial observations , where he endeavoured to teach me the names and courses of the stars . 
I could do all which they delighted in doing by powers merely sensitive , while my intellectual faculties were flown to Cairo . 
They ran from room to room , as a bird hops from wire to wire in his cage . 
They danced for the sake of motion , as lambs frisk in a meadow . 
One sometimes pretended to be hurt that the rest might be alarmed , or hid herself that another might seek her . 
Part of their time passed in watching the progress of light bodies that floated on the river , and part in marking the various forms into which clouds broke in the sky . 
They had no idea but of the few things that were within their view , and had hardly names for anything but their clothes and their food . 
As I bore a superior character , I was often called to terminate their quarrels , which I decided as equitably as I could . 
But to a man like the Arab such beauty was only a flower casually plucked and carelessly thrown away . 
Whatever pleasures he might find among them , they were not those of friendship or society . 
When they were playing about him he looked on them with inattentive superiority when they vied for his regard he sometimes turned away disgusted . 
You have reason , lady , to think yourself happy , said Imlac , that you have been thus easily dismissed . 
While I was detained in his house he made many incursions into the neighbouring countries , and perhaps he would have refused to discharge me had his plunder been equal to his wishes . 
He returned always courteous , related his adventures , delighted to hear my observations , and endeavoured to advance my acquaintance with the stars . 
I grew at last hopeless and dejected , and cared so little to entertain him , that he for a while more frequently talked with my maids . 
That he should fall in love with them or with me , might have been equally fatal , and I was not much pleased with the growing friendship . 
My anxiety was not long , for , as I recovered some degree of cheerfulness , he returned to me , and I could not forbear to despise my former uneasiness . 
He still delayed to send for my ransom , and would perhaps never have determined had not your agent found his way to him . 
The gold , which he would not fetch , he could not reject when it was offered . 
He hastened to prepare for our journey hither , like a man delivered from the pain of an intestine conflict . 
I took leave of my companions in the house , who dismissed me with cold indifference . 
CHAPTER XL THE HISTORY OF A MAN OF LEARNING . 
THEY returned to Cairo , and were so well pleased at finding themselves together that none of them went much abroad . 
The Prince began to love learning , and one day declared to Imlac that he intended to devote himself to science and pass the rest of his days in literary solitude . 
Before you make your final choice , answered Imlac , you ought to examine its hazards , and converse with some of those who are grown old in the company of themselves . 
He admits a few friends once a month to hear his deductions and enjoy his discoveries . 
I was introduced as a man of knowledge worthy of his notice . 
Men of various ideas and fluent conversation are commonly welcome to those whose thoughts have been long fixed upon a single point , and who find the images of other things stealing away . 
I delighted him with my remarks . 
He smiled at the narrative of my travels , and was glad to forget the constellations and descend for a moment into the lower world . 
On the next day of vacation I renewed my visit , and was so fortunate as to please him again . 
He relaxed from that time the severity of his rule , and permitted me to enter at my own choice . 
I found him always busy , and always glad to be relieved . 
As each knew much which the other was desirous of learning , we exchanged our notions with great delight . 
I perceived that I had every day more of his confidence , and always found new cause of admiration in the profundity of his mind . 
His comprehension is vast , his memory capacious and retentive , his discourse is methodical , and his expression clear . 
His integrity and benevolence are equal to his learning . 
His deepest researches and most favourite studies are willingly interrupted for any opportunity of doing good by his counsel or his riches . 
To man is permitted the contemplation of the skies , but the practice of virtue is commanded . 
Surely , said the Princess , this man is happy . 
I was at first , great Princess , of your opinion , thought him the happiest of mankind , and often congratulated him on the blessing that he enjoyed . 
He seemed to hear nothing with indifference but the praises of his condition , to which he always returned a general answer , and diverted the conversation to some other topic . 
Amidst this willingness to be pleased and labour to please , I had quickly reason to imagine that some painful sentiment pressed upon his mind . 
He often looked up earnestly towards the sun , and let his voice fall in the midst of his discourse . 
He would sometimes , when we were alone , gaze upon me in silence with the air of a man who longed to speak what he was yet resolved to suppress . 
CHAPTER XLI THE ASTRONOMER DISCOVERS THE CAUSE OF HIS UNEASINESS . 
AT last the time came when the secret burst his reserve . 
We were sitting together last night in the turret of his house watching the immersion of a satellite of Jupiter . 
A sudden tempest clouded the sky and disappointed our observation . 
We sat awhile silent in the dark , and then he addressed himself to me in these words 'Imlac , I have long considered thy friendship as the greatest blessing of my life . 
Integrity without knowledge is weak and useless , and knowledge without integrity is dangerous and dreadful . 
I have found in thee all the qualities requisite for trust benevolence , experience , and fortitude . 
I have long discharged an office which I must soon quit at the call of Nature , and shall rejoice in the hour of imbecility and pain to devolve it upon thee . 
I thought myself honoured by this testimony , and protested that whatever could conduce to his happiness would add likewise to mine . 
'Hear , Imlac , what thou wilt not without difficulty credit . 
I have possessed for five years the regulation of the weather and the distribution of the seasons . 
I have restrained the rage of the dog star , and mitigated the fervours of the crab . 
The winds alone , of all the elemental powers , have hitherto refused my authority , and multitudes have perished by equinoctial tempests which I found myself unable to prohibit or restrain . 
I have administered this great office with exact justice , and made to the different nations of the earth an impartial dividend of rain and sunshine . 
Nor do I know whether to deem this distinction a reward or punishment . 
Since I have possessed it I have been far less happy than before , and nothing but the consciousness of good intention could have enabled me to support the weariness of unremitted vigilance . 
I had yet only the will to do good , and did not imagine that I should ever have the power . 
'Might not some other cause , said I , 'produce this concurrence ? The Nile does not always rise on the same day . 
'Do not believe , said he , with impatience , 'that such objections could escape me . 
I reasoned long against my own conviction , and laboured against truth with the utmost obstinacy . 
I therefore shall not attempt to gain credit by disputation . 
It is sufficient that I feel this power that I have long possessed , and every day exerted it . 
But the life of man is short the infirmities of age increase upon me , and the time will soon come when the regulator of the year must mingle with the dust . 
CHAPTER XLIII THE ASTRONOMER LEAVES IMLAC HIS DIRECTIONS . 
'HEAR , therefore , what I shall impart with attention , such as the welfare of a world requires . 
'I have diligently considered the position of the earth and sun , and formed innumerable schemes , in which I changed their situation . 
The memory of mischief is no desirable fame . 
Much less will it become thee to let kindness or interest prevail . 
Never rob other countries of rain to pour it on thine own . 
For us the Nile is sufficient . 
I promised that when I possessed the power I would use it with inflexible integrity and he dismissed me , pressing my hand . 
The Prince heard this narration with very serious regard but the Princess smiled , and Pekuah convulsed herself with laughter . 
Ladies , said Imlac , to mock the heaviest of human afflictions is neither charitable nor wise . 
Few can attain this man's knowledge and few practise his virtues , but all may suffer his calamity . 
Of the uncertainties of our present state , the most dreadful and alarming is the uncertain continuance of reason . 
The Princess was recollected , and the favourite was abashed . 
Rasselas , more deeply affected , inquired of Imlac whether he thought such maladies of the mind frequent , and how they were contracted . 
CHAPTER XLIV THE DANGEROUS PREVALENCE OF IMAGINATION . 
DISORDERS of intellect , answered Imlac , happen much more often than superficial observers will easily believe . 
Perhaps if we speak with rigorous exactness , no human mind is in its right state . 
There is no man whose imagination does not sometimes predominate over his reason who can regulate his attention wholly by his will , and whose ideas will come and go at his command . 
No man will be found in whose mind airy notions do not sometimes tyrannise , and force him to hope or fear beyond the limits of sober probability . 
To indulge the power of fiction and send imagination out upon the wing is often the sport of those who delight too much in silent speculation . 
When we are alone we are not always busy the labour of excogitation is too violent to last long the ardour of inquiry will sometimes give way to idleness or satiety . 
The mind dances from scene to scene , unites all pleasures in all combinations , and riots in delights which Nature and fortune , with all their bounty , cannot bestow . 
By degrees the reign of fancy is confirmed she grows first imperious and in time despotic . 
Then fictions begin to operate as realities , false opinions fasten upon the mind , and life passes in dreams of rapture or of anguish . 
I will no more , said the favourite , imagine myself the Queen of Abyssinia . 
And I , said the Princess , will not allow myself any more to play the shepherdess in my waking dreams . 
I will confess , said the Prince , an indulgence of fantastic delight more dangerous than yours . 
This thought produced innumerable schemes of reformation , and dictated many useful regulations and salutary effects . 
Such , said Imlac , are the effects of visionary schemes . 
When we first form them , we know them to be absurd , but familiarise them by degrees , and in time lose sight of their folly . 
CHAPTER XLV THEY DISCOURSE WITH AN OLD MAN . 
THE evening was now far past , and they rose to return home . 
Yonder , said he , is one whose years have calmed his passions , but not clouded his reason . 
Here the sage approached and saluted them . 
They invited him to join their walk , and prattled awhile as acquaintance that had unexpectedly met one another . 
The old man was cheerful and talkative , and the way seemed short in his company . 
He was pleased to find himself not disregarded , accompanied them to their house , and , at the Prince's request , entered with them . 
They placed him in the seat of honour , and set wine and conserves before him . 
Sir , said the Princess , an evening walk must give to a man of learning like you pleasures which ignorance and youth can hardly conceive . 
You know the qualities and the causes of all that you behold the laws by which the river flows , the periods in which the planets perform their revolutions . 
Everything must supply you with contemplation , and renew the consciousness of your own dignity . 
Lady , answered he , let the gay and the vigorous expect pleasure in their excursions it is enough that age can attain ease . 
To me the world has lost its novelty . 
I look round , and see what I remember to have seen in happier days . 
I rest against a tree , and consider that in the same shade I once disputed upon the annual overflow of the Nile with a friend who is now silent in the grave . 
I cast my eyes upwards , fix them on the changing moon , and think with pain on the vicissitudes of life . 
Praise , said the sage with a sigh , is to an old man an empty sound . 
I have neither mother to be delighted with the reputation of her son , nor wife to partake the honours of her husband . 
I have outlived my friends and my rivals . 
Nothing is now of much importance for I cannot extend my interest beyond myself . 
Something they may yet take away , but they can give me nothing . 
Riches would now be useless , and high employment would be pain . 
My retrospect of life recalls to my view many opportunities of good neglected , much time squandered upon trifles , and more lost in idleness and vacancy . 
I leave many great designs unattempted , and many great attempts unfinished . 
He arose and went away , leaving his audience not much elated with the hope of long life . 
The Princess suspected that age was querulous and malignant , and delighted to repress the expectations of those who had newly entered the world . 
She had seen the possessors of estates look with envy on their heirs , and known many who enjoyed pleasures no longer than they could confine it to themselves . 
For nothing , said she , is more common than to call our own condition the condition of life . 
He forbore to force upon them unwelcome knowledge , which time itself would too soon impress . 
CHAPTER XLVI THE PRINCESS AND PEKUAH VISIT THE ASTRONOMER . 
The ladies would not be refused , and several schemes were proposed for the accomplishment of their design . 
This , said Rasselas , is true but I have yet a stronger objection against the misrepresentation of your state . 
I have always considered it as treason against the great republic of human nature to make any man's virtues the means of deceiving him , whether on great or little occasions . 
All imposture weakens confidence and chills benevolence . 
I am afraid , said Imlac , that he will soon be weary of your company . 
That , said Pekuah , must be my care . 
I ask of you only to take me thither . 
My knowledge is perhaps more than you imagine it , and by concurring always with his opinions I shall make him think it greater than it is . 
The ladies dressed themselves magnificently , and were attended by Imlac to the astronomer , who was pleased to see himself approached with respect by persons of so splendid an appearance . 
In the exchange of the first civilities he was timorous and bashful but when the talk became regular , he recollected his powers , and justified the character which Imlac had given . 
She told her tale with ease and elegance , and her conversation took possession of his heart . 
The discourse was then turned to astronomy . 
Pekuah displayed what she knew . 
He looked upon her as a prodigy of genius , and entreated her not to desist from a study which she had so happily begun . 
They came again and again , and were every time more welcome than before . 
As their familiarity increased , they invited him often to the house of Imlac , where they distinguished him by extraordinary respect . 
He began gradually to delight in sublunary pleasures . 
Of the various conditions which the world spreads before you which you shall prefer , said the sage , I am not able to instruct you . 
I can only tell that I have chosen wrong . 
I have passed my time in study without experience in the attainment of sciences which can for the most part be but remotely useful to mankind . 
I have purchased knowledge at the expense of all the common comforts of life I have missed the endearing elegance of female friendship , and the happy commerce of domestic tenderness . 
Something was always to be done the day was spent in making observations , which furnished talk for the evening , and the evening was closed with a scheme for the morrow . 
But I am sometimes afraid , lest I indulge my quiet by criminal negligence , and voluntarily forget the great charge with which I am entrusted . 
For this reason the superstitious are often melancholy , and the melancholy almost always superstitious . 
CHAPTER XLVII THE PRINCE ENTERS , AND BRINGS A NEW TOPIC . 
I rejoice to find my own sentiments confirmed by yours , who are not easily deceived , and can have no motive or purpose to deceive . 
I hope that time and variety will dissipate the gloom that has so long surrounded me , and the latter part of my days will be spent in peace . 
Your learning and virtue , said Imlac , may justly give you hopes . 
Rasselas then entered , with the Princess and Pekuah , and inquired whether they had contrived any new diversion for the next day . 
The world is not yet exhausted let me see something to morrow which I never saw before . 
Anthony support , without complaint , a life , not of uniform delight , but uniform hardship . 
Those men , answered Imlac , are less wretched in their silent convent than the Abyssinian princes in their prison of pleasure . 
Whatever is done by the monks is incited by an adequate and reasonable motive . 
Their labour supplies them with necessaries it therefore cannot be omitted , and is certainly rewarded . 
Their devotion prepares them for another state , and reminds them of its approach while it fits them for it . 
Their time is regularly distributed one duty succeeds another , so that they are not left open to the distraction of unguided choice , nor lost in the shades of listless inactivity . 
I am afraid to decide on either part . 
He that lives well in the world is better than he that lives well in a monastery . 
But perhaps everyone is not able to stem the temptations of public life , and if he cannot conquer he may properly retreat . 
Some have little power to do good , and have likewise little strength to resist evil . 
Many are weary of the conflicts with adversity , and are willing to eject those passions which have long busied them in vain . 
And many are dismissed by age and diseases from the more laborious duties of society . 
In monasteries the weak and timorous may be happily sheltered , the weary may repose , and the penitent may meditate . 
Such , said Pekuah , has often been my wish , and I have heard the Princess declare that she should not willingly die in a crowd . 
The liberty of using harmless pleasures , proceeded Imlac , will not be disputed , but it is still to be examined what pleasures are harmless . 
The evil of any pleasure that Nekayah can image is not in the act itself but in its consequences . 
Mortification is not virtuous in itself , nor has any other use but that it disengages us from the allurements of sense . 
In the state of future perfection to which we all aspire there will be pleasure without danger and security without restraint . 
The Princess was silent , and Rasselas , turning to the astronomer , asked him whether he could not delay her retreat by showing her something which she had not seen before . 
They hired a guard of horsemen , and the next day visited the catacombs . 
Let me find you safe when I return . 
No , I will not be left , answered Pekuah , I will go down between you and the Prince . 
They then all descended , and roved with wonder through the labyrinth of subterraneous passages , where the bodies were laid in rows on either side . 
CHAPTER XLVIII IMLAC DISCOURSES ON THE NATURE OF THE SOUL . 
I suppose only the rich or honourable were secured from corruption , and the rest left to the course of nature . 
But it is commonly supposed that the Egyptians believed the soul to live as long as the body continued undissolved , and therefore tried this method of eluding death . 
The nature of the soul is still disputed amidst all our opportunities of clearer knowledge some yet say that it may be material , who , nevertheless , believe it to be immortal . 
It was never supposed that cogitation is inherent in matter , or that every particle is a thinking being . 
If matter be once without thought , it can only be made to think by some new modification but all the modifications which it can admit are equally unconnected with cogitative powers . 
But the materialists , said the astronomer , urge that matter may have qualities with which we are unacquainted . 
If that which is known may be overruled by that which is unknown , no being , not omniscient , can arrive at certainty . 
Yet let us not , said the astronomer , too arrogantly limit the Creator's power . 
I know not , said Nekayah , any great use of this question . 
Does that immateriality , which in my opinion you have sufficiently proved , necessarily include eternal duration ? Of immateriality , said Imlac , our ideas are negative , and therefore obscure . 
I know not , said Rasselas , how to conceive anything without extension what is extended must have parts , and you allow that whatever has parts may be destroyed . 
Consider your own conceptions , replied Imlac , and the difficulty will be less . 
You will find substance without extension . 
An ideal form is no less real than material bulk yet an ideal form has no extension . 
It is no less certain , when you think on a pyramid , that your mind possesses the idea of a pyramid , than that the pyramid itself is standing . 
But the Being , said Nekayah , whom I fear to name , the Being which made the soul , can destroy it . 
He surely can destroy it , answered Imlac , since , however imperishable , it receives from a superior nature its power of duration . 
That it will not perish by any inherent cause of decay or principle of corruption , may be shown by philosophy but philosophy can tell no more . 
That it will not be annihilated by Him that made it , we must humbly learn from higher authority . 
The whole assembly stood awhile silent and collected . 
Let us return , said Rasselas , from this scene of mortality . 
To me , said the Princess , the choice of life is become less important I hope hereafter to think only on the choice of eternity . 
They then hastened out of the caverns , and under the protection of their guard returned to Cairo . 
CHAPTER XLIX THE CONCLUSION , IN WHICH NOTHING IS CONCLUDED . 
IT was now the time of the inundation of the Nile . 
A few days after their visit to the catacombs the river began to rise . 
They were confined to their house . 
Pekuah was never so much charmed with any place as the Convent of St . 
Anthony , where the Arab restored her to the Princess , and wished only to fill it with pious maidens and to be made prioress of the order . 
She was weary of expectation and disgust , and would gladly be fixed in some unvariable state . 
The Princess thought that , of all sublunary things , knowledge was the best . 
Imlac and the astronomer were contented to be driven along the stream of life without directing their course to any particular port . 
Of those wishes that they had formed they well knew that none could be obtained . 
They deliberated awhile what was to be done , and resolved , when the inundation should cease , to return to Abyssinia . 
