People said that he resembled Byron at least that his head was Byronic but he was a bearded , tranquil Byron , who might live on a thousand years without growing old . 
Certainly an Englishman , it was more doubtful whether Phileas Fogg was a Londoner . 
He certainly was not a manufacturer nor was he a merchant or a gentleman farmer . 
Phileas Fogg was a member of the Reform , and that was all . 
The way in which he got admission to this exclusive club was simple enough . 
He was recommended by the Barings , with whom he had an open credit . 
His cheques were regularly paid at sight from his account current , which was always flush . 
Was Phileas Fogg rich ? Undoubtedly . 
But those who knew him best could not imagine how he had made his fortune , and Mr. Fogg was the last person to whom to apply for the information . 
He was , in short , the least communicative of men . 
He talked very little , and seemed all the more mysterious for his taciturn manner . 
He must have travelled everywhere , at least in the spirit . 
It was at least certain that Phileas Fogg had not absented himself from London for many years . 
Those who were honoured by a better acquaintance with him than the rest , declared that nobody could pretend to have ever seen him anywhere else . 
His sole pastimes were reading the papers and playing whist . 
Mr. Fogg played , not to win , but for the sake of playing . 
The game was in his eyes a contest , a struggle with a difficulty , yet a motionless , unwearying struggle , congenial to his tastes . 
Phileas Fogg was not known to have either wife or children , which may happen to the most honest people either relatives or near friends , which is certainly more unusual . 
He lived alone in his house in Saville Row , whither none penetrated . 
A single domestic sufficed to serve him . 
He never used the cosy chambers which the Reform provides for its favoured members . 
He passed ten hours out of the twenty four in Saville Row , either in sleeping or making his toilet . 
If to live in this style is to be eccentric , it must be confessed that there is something good in eccentricity . 
The mansion in Saville Row , though not sumptuous , was exceedingly comfortable . 
The habits of its occupant were such as to demand but little from the sole domestic , but Phileas Fogg required him to be almost superhumanly prompt and regular . 
At exactly half past eleven Mr. Fogg would , according to his daily habit , quit Saville Row , and repair to the Reform . 
A rap at this moment sounded on the door of the cosy apartment where Phileas Fogg was seated , and James Forster , the dismissed servant , appeared . 
The new servant , said he . 
A young man of thirty advanced and bowed . 
I believe I'm honest , monsieur , but , to be outspoken , I've had several trades . 
I've been an itinerant singer , a circus rider , when I used to vault like Leotard , and dance on a rope like Blondin . 
But I quitted France five years ago , and , wishing to taste the sweets of domestic life , took service as a valet here in England . 
Passepartout suits me , responded Mr. Fogg . 
You are well recommended to me I hear a good report of you . 
You know my conditions ? Yes , monsieur . 
Good ! What time is it ? Twenty two minutes after eleven , returned Passepartout , drawing an enormous silver watch from the depths of his pocket . 
You are too slow , said Mr. Fogg . 
Pardon me , monsieur , it is impossible You are four minutes too slow . 
No matter it's enough to mention the error . 
Now from this moment , twenty nine minutes after eleven , a . 
, this Wednesday , nd October , you are in my service . 
Phileas Fogg got up , took his hat in his left hand , put it on his head with an automatic motion , and went off without a word . 
Passepartout heard the street door shut once it was his new master going out . 
He heard it shut again it was his predecessor , James Forster , departing in his turn . 
Passepartout remained alone in the house in Saville Row . 
During his brief interview with Mr. Fogg , Passepartout had been carefully observing him . 
His countenance possessed in the highest degree what physiognomists call repose in action , a quality of those who act rather than talk . 
Calm and phlegmatic , with a clear eye , Mr. Fogg seemed a perfect type of that English composure which Angelica Kauffmann has so skilfully represented on canvas . 
Seen in the various phases of his daily life , he gave the idea of being perfectly well balanced , as exactly regulated as a Leroy chronometer . 
He was so exact that he was never in a hurry , was always ready , and was economical alike of his steps and his motions . 
He never took one step too many , and always went to his destination by the shortest cut he made no superfluous gestures , and was never seen to be moved or agitated . 
He was the most deliberate person in the world , yet always reached his destination at the exact moment . 
As for Passepartout , he was a true Parisian of Paris . 
Since he had abandoned his own country for England , taking service as a valet , he had in vain searched for a master after his own heart . 
It would be rash to predict how Passepartout's lively nature would agree with Mr. Fogg . 
It was impossible to tell whether the new servant would turn out as absolutely methodical as his master required experience alone could solve the question . 
His last master , young Lord Longferry , Member of Parliament , after passing his nights in the Haymarket taverns , was too often brought home in the morning on policemen's shoulders . 
Passepartout , desirous of respecting the gentleman whom he served , ventured a mild remonstrance on such conduct which , being ill received , he took his leave . 
He presented himself , and was accepted , as has been seen . 
At half past eleven , then , Passepartout found himself alone in the house in Saville Row . 
He begun its inspection without delay , scouring it from cellar to garret . 
So clean , well arranged , solemn a mansion pleased him it seemed to him like a snail's shell , lighted and warmed by gas , which sufficed for both these purposes . 
When Passepartout reached the second story he recognised at once the room which he was to inhabit , and he was well satisfied with it . 
That's good , that'll do , said Passepartout to himself . 
He suddenly observed , hung over the clock , a card which , upon inspection , proved to be a programme of the daily routine of the house . 
Everything was regulated and foreseen that was to be done from half past eleven a . 
till midnight , the hour at which the methodical gentleman retired . 
Mr. Fogg's wardrobe was amply supplied and in the best taste . 
He rose at thirteen minutes to one , and directed his steps towards the large hall , a sumptuous apartment adorned with lavishly framed paintings . 
A flunkey handed him an uncut Times , which he proceeded to cut with a skill which betrayed familiarity with this delicate operation . 
The perusal of this paper absorbed Phileas Fogg until a quarter before four , whilst the Standard , his next task , occupied him till the dinner hour . 
Dinner passed as breakfast had done , and Mr. Fogg re appeared in the reading room and sat down to the Pall Mall at twenty minutes before six . 
Half an hour later several members of the Reform came in and drew up to the fireplace , where a coal fire was steadily burning . 
Well , Ralph , said Thomas Flanagan , what about that robbery ? Oh , replied Stuart , the Bank will lose the money . 
On the contrary , broke in Ralph , I hope we may put our hands on the robber . 
Skilful detectives have been sent to all the principal ports of America and the Continent , and he'll be a clever fellow if he slips through their fingers . 
But have you got the robber's description ? asked Stuart . 
In the first place , he is no robber at all , returned Ralph , positively . 
What ! a fellow who makes off with fifty five thousand pounds , no robber ? No. Perhaps he's a manufacturer , then . 
The Daily Telegraph says that he is a gentleman . 
It was Phileas Fogg , whose head now emerged from behind his newspapers , who made this remark . 
He bowed to his friends , and entered into the conversation . 
The affair which formed its subject , and which was town talk , had occurred three days before at the Bank of England . 
Of course , he could not have his eyes everywhere . 
Let it be observed that the Bank of England reposes a touching confidence in the honesty of the public . 
There are neither guards nor gratings to protect its treasures gold , silver , banknotes are freely exposed , at the mercy of the first comer . 
Meanwhile , the cashier had not so much as raised his head . 
But in the present instance things had not gone so smoothly . 
The package of notes not being found when five o'clock sounded from the ponderous clock in the drawing office , the amount was passed to the account of profit and loss . 
on the sum that might be recovered . 
Detectives were also charged with narrowly watching those who arrived at or left London by rail , and a judicial examination was at once entered upon . 
There were real grounds for supposing , as the Daily Telegraph said , that the thief did not belong to a professional band . 
A description of him was easily procured and sent to the detectives and some hopeful spirits , of whom Ralph was one , did not despair of his apprehension . 
Ralph would not concede that the work of the detectives was likely to be in vain , for he thought that the prize offered would greatly stimulate their zeal and activity . 
But Stuart was far from sharing this confidence and , as they placed themselves at the whist table , they continued to argue the matter . 
Stuart and Flanagan played together , while Phileas Fogg had Fallentin for his partner . 
As the game proceeded the conversation ceased , excepting between the rubbers , when it revived again . 
I maintain , said Stuart , that the chances are in favour of the thief , who must be a shrewd fellow . 
Well , but where can he fly to ? asked Ralph . 
No country is safe for him . 
Pshaw ! Where could he go , then ? Oh , I don't know that . 
The world is big enough . 
It was once , said Phileas Fogg , in a low tone . 
Cut , sir , he added , handing the cards to Thomas Flanagan . 
The discussion fell during the rubber , after which Stuart took up its thread . 
What do you mean by once' ? Has the world grown smaller ? Certainly , returned Ralph . 
I agree with Mr. Fogg . 
The world has grown smaller , since a man can now go round it ten times more quickly than a hundred years ago . 
And that is why the search for this thief will be more likely to succeed . 
And also why the thief can get away more easily . 
Be so good as to play , Mr. Stuart , said Phileas Fogg . 
But the incredulous Stuart was not convinced , and when the hand was finished , said eagerly You have a strange way , Ralph , of proving that the world has grown smaller . 
So , because you can go round it in three months In eighty days , interrupted Phileas Fogg . 
That is true , gentlemen , added John Sullivan . 
Only eighty days , now that the section between Rothal and Allahabad , on the Great Indian Peninsula Railway , has been opened . 
Here is the estimate made by the Daily Telegraph From London to Suez via Mont Cenis and Brindisi , by rail and steamboats . 
days From Suez to Bombay , by steamer . 
From Bombay to Calcutta , by rail . 
From Calcutta to Hong Kong , by steamer . 
From Hong Kong to Yokohama , by steamer . 
From Yokohama to San Francisco , by steamer . 
From San Francisco to New York , by rail . 
From New York to London , by steamer and rail . 
Yes , in eighty days ! exclaimed Stuart , who in his excitement made a false deal . 
But that doesn't take into account bad weather , contrary winds , shipwrecks , railway accidents , and so on . 
All included , returned Phileas Fogg , continuing to play despite the discussion . 
Stuart , whose turn it was to deal , gathered them up , and went on You are right , theoretically , Mr. Fogg , but practically Practically also , Mr. Stuart . 
I'd like to see you do it in eighty days . 
Shall we go ? Heaven preserve me ! But I would wager four thousand pounds that such a journey , made under these conditions , is impossible . 
Quite possible , on the contrary , returned Mr. Fogg . 
Well , make it , then ! The journey round the world in eighty days ? Yes . 
I should like nothing better . 
Only I warn you that I shall do it at your expense . 
It's absurd ! cried Stuart , who was beginning to be annoyed at the persistency of his friend . 
Come , let's go on with the game . 
Deal over again , then , said Phileas Fogg . 
Stuart took up the pack with a feverish hand then suddenly put them down again . 
Well , Mr. Fogg , said he , it shall be so I will wager the four thousand on it . 
Calm yourself , my dear Stuart , said Fallentin . 
When I say I'll wager , returned Stuart , I mean it . 
All right , said Mr. Fogg and , turning to the others , he continued I have a deposit of twenty thousand at Baring's which I will willingly risk upon it . 
Twenty thousand pounds ! cried Sullivan . 
Twenty thousand pounds , which you would lose by a single accidental delay ! The unforeseen does not exist , quietly replied Phileas Fogg . 
But , Mr. Fogg , eighty days are only the estimate of the least possible time in which the journey can be made . 
A well used minimum suffices for everything . 
But , in order not to exceed it , you must jump mathematically from the trains upon the steamers , and from the steamers upon the trains again . 
A true Englishman doesn't joke when he is talking about so serious a thing as a wager , replied Phileas Fogg , solemnly . 
Do you accept ? We accept , replied Messrs . 
Stuart , Fallentin , Sullivan , Flanagan , and Ralph , after consulting each other . 
Good , said Mr. Fogg . 
The train leaves for Dover at a quarter before nine . 
This very evening ? asked Stuart . 
This very evening , returned Phileas Fogg . 
or else the twenty thousand pounds , now deposited in my name at Baring's , will belong to you , in fact and in right , gentlemen . 
Here is a cheque for the amount . 
A memorandum of the wager was at once drawn up and signed by the six parties , during which Phileas Fogg preserved a stoical composure . 
The clock struck seven , and the party offered to suspend the game so that Mr. Fogg might make his preparations for departure . 
I am quite ready now , was his tranquil response . 
Diamonds are trumps be so good as to play , gentlemen . 
Mr. Fogg repaired to his bedroom , and called out , Passepartout ! Passepartout did not reply . 
It could not be he who was called it was not the right hour . 
Passepartout ! repeated Mr. Fogg , without raising his voice . 
I've called you twice , observed his master . 
But it is not midnight , responded the other , showing his watch . 
I know it I don't blame you . 
We start for Dover and Calais in ten minutes . 
A puzzled grin overspread Passepartout's round face clearly he had not comprehended his master . 
Monsieur is going to leave home ? Yes , returned Phileas Fogg . 
We are going round the world . 
Passepartout opened wide his eyes , raised his eyebrows , held up his hands , and seemed about to collapse , so overcome was he with stupefied astonishment . 
Round the world ! he murmured . 
In eighty days , responded Mr. Fogg . 
So we haven't a moment to lose . 
But the trunks ? gasped Passepartout , unconsciously swaying his head from right to left . 
We'll have no trunks only a carpet bag , with two shirts and three pairs of stockings for me , and the same for you . 
We'll buy our clothes on the way . 
Bring down my mackintosh and traveling cloak , and some stout shoes , though we shall do little walking . 
Make haste ! Passepartout tried to reply , but could not . 
Perhaps they would go as far as Paris , and it would do his eyes good to see Paris once more . 
Mr. Fogg was quite ready . 
Under his arm might have been observed a red bound copy of Bradshaw's Continental Railway Steam Transit and General Guide , with its timetables showing the arrival and departure of steamers and railways . 
He took the carpet bag , opened it , and slipped into it a goodly roll of Bank of England notes , which would pass wherever he might go . 
You have forgotten nothing ? asked he . 
My mackintosh and cloak ? Here they are . 
Good ! Take this carpet bag , handing it to Passepartout . 
Take good care of it , for there are twenty thousand pounds in it . 
Passepartout nearly dropped the bag , as if the twenty thousand pounds were in gold , and weighed him down . 
Master and man then descended , the street door was double locked , and at the end of Saville Row they took a cab and drove rapidly to Charing Cross . 
The cab stopped before the railway station at twenty minutes past eight . 
Mr. Fogg took out the twenty guineas he had just won at whist , and handed them to the beggar , saying , Here , my good woman . 
I'm glad that I met you and passed on . 
Passepartout had a moist sensation about the eyes his master's action touched his susceptible heart . 
Two first class tickets for Paris having been speedily purchased , Mr. Fogg was crossing the station to the train , when he perceived his five friends of the Reform . 
Oh , that would be quite unnecessary , Mr. Fogg , said Ralph politely . 
We will trust your word , as a gentleman of honour . 
You do not forget when you are due in London again ? asked Stuart . 
In eighty days on Saturday , the st of December , , at a quarter before nine p . 
Phileas Fogg and his servant seated themselves in a first class carriage at twenty minutes before nine five minutes later the whistle screamed , and the train slowly glided out of the station . 
The night was dark , and a fine , steady rain was falling . 
Phileas Fogg , snugly ensconced in his corner , did not open his lips . 
Passepartout , not yet recovered from his stupefaction , clung mechanically to the carpet bag , with its enormous treasure . 
Just as the train was whirling through Sydenham , Passepartout suddenly uttered a cry of despair . 
What's the matter ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
The news of the bet spread through the Reform Club , and afforded an exciting topic of conversation to its members . 
From the club it soon got into the papers throughout England . 
The boasted tour of the world was talked about , disputed , argued with as much warmth as if the subject were another Alabama claim . 
The Times , Standard , Morning Post , and Daily News , and twenty other highly respectable newspapers scouted Mr. Fogg's project as madness the Daily Telegraph alone hesitatingly supported him . 
People in general thought him a lunatic , and blamed his Reform Club friends for having accepted a wager which betrayed the mental aberration of its proposer . 
A few readers of the Daily Telegraph even dared to say , Why not , after all ? Stranger things have come to pass . 
Everything , it said , was against the travellers , every obstacle imposed alike by man and by nature . 
A miraculous agreement of the times of departure and arrival , which was impossible , was absolutely necessary to his success . 
This article made a great deal of noise , and , being copied into all the papers , seriously depressed the advocates of the rash tourist . 
Everybody knows that England is the world of betting men , who are of a higher class than mere gamblers to bet is in the English temperament . 
Bonds were issued , and made their appearance on 'Change Phileas Fogg bonds were offered at par or at a premium , and a great business was done in them . 
But five days after the article in the bulletin of the Geographical Society appeared , the demand began to subside Phileas Fogg declined . 
The commissioner of police was sitting in his office at nine o'clock one evening , when the following telegraphic dispatch was put into his hands Suez to London . 
Rowan , Commissioner of Police , Scotland Yard I've found the bank robber , Phileas Fogg . 
Send with out delay warrant of arrest to Bombay . 
The effect of this dispatch was instantaneous . 
The polished gentleman disappeared to give place to the bank robber . 
on Wednesday , the th of October , at Suez . 
The other was a small , slight built personage , with a nervous , intelligent face , and bright eyes peering out from under eyebrows which he was incessantly twitching . 
He was just now manifesting unmistakable signs of impatience , nervously pacing up and down , and unable to stand still for a moment . 
So you say , consul , asked he for the twentieth time , that this steamer is never behind time ? No , Mr. Fix , replied the consul . 
She was bespoken yesterday at Port Said , and the rest of the way is of no account to such a craft . 
I repeat that the Mongolia has been in advance of the time required by the company's regulations , and gained the prize awarded for excess of speed . 
Does she come directly from Brindisi ? Directly from Brindisi she takes on the Indian mails there , and she left there Saturday at five p . 
Have patience , Mr. Fix she will not be late . 
But really , I don't see how , from the description you have , you will be able to recognise your man , even if he is on board the Mongolia . 
A man rather feels the presence of these fellows , consul , than recognises them . 
You must have a scent for them , and a scent is like a sixth sense which combines hearing , seeing , and smelling . 
I've arrested more than one of these gentlemen in my time , and , if my thief is on board , I'll answer for it he'll not slip through my fingers . 
I hope so , Mr. Fix , for it was a heavy robbery . 
A magnificent robbery , consul fifty five thousand pounds ! We don't often have such windfalls . 
Don't you see , the description which you have there has a singular resemblance to an honest man ? Consul , remarked the detective , dogmatically , great robbers always resemble honest folks . 
Fellows who have rascally faces have only one course to take , and that is to remain honest otherwise they would be arrested off hand . 
The artistic thing is , to unmask honest countenances it's no light task , I admit , but a real art . 
Mr. Fix evidently was not wanting in a tinge of self conceit . 
The weather was clear , and slightly chilly . 
The minarets of the town loomed above the houses in the pale rays of the sun . 
A jetty pier , some two thousand yards along , extended into the roadstead . 
A number of fishing smacks and coasting boats , some retaining the fantastic fashion of ancient galleys , were discernible on the Red Sea . 
As he passed among the busy crowd , Fix , according to habit , scrutinised the passers by with a keen , rapid glance . 
It was now half past ten . 
The steamer doesn't come ! he exclaimed , as the port clock struck . 
She can't be far off now , returned his companion . 
How long will she stop at Suez ? Four hours long enough to get in her coal . 
It is thirteen hundred and ten miles from Suez to Aden , at the other end of the Red Sea , and she has to take in a fresh coal supply . 
And does she go from Suez directly to Bombay ? Without putting in anywhere . 
If the robber is on board he will no doubt get off at Suez , so as to reach the Dutch or French colonies in Asia by some other route . 
He ought to know that he would not be safe an hour in India , which is English soil . 
Unless , objected the consul , he is exceptionally shrewd . 
An English criminal , you know , is always better concealed n London than anywhere else . 
This observation furnished the detective food for thought , and meanwhile the consul went away to his office . 
Fix , left alone , was more impatient than ever , having a presentiment that the robber was on board the Mongolia . 
But Fix's reflections were soon interrupted by a succession of sharp whistles , which announced the arrival of the Mongolia . 
The porters and fellahs rushed down the quay , and a dozen boats pushed off from the shore to go and meet the steamer . 
Soon her gigantic hull appeared passing along between the banks , and eleven o'clock struck as she anchored in the road . 
Fix took up a position , and carefully examined each face and figure which made its appearance . 
Fix instinctively took the passport , and with a rapid glance read the description of its bearer . 
An involuntary motion of surprise nearly escaped him , for the description in the passport was identical with that of the bank robber which he had received from Scotland Yard . 
Is this your passport ? asked he . 
No , it's my master's . 
And your master is He stayed on board . 
But he must go to the consul's in person , so as to establish his identity . 
Oh , is that necessary ? Quite indispensable . 
And where is the consulate ? There , on the corner of the square , said Fix , pointing to a house two hundred steps off . 
I'll go and fetch my master , who won't be much pleased , however , to be disturbed . 
The passenger bowed to Fix , and returned to the steamer . 
Consul , said he , without preamble , I have strong reasons for believing that my man is a passenger on the Mongolia . 
And he narrated what had just passed concerning the passport . 
A robber doesn't quite like to leave traces of his flight behind him and , besides , he is not obliged to have his passport countersigned . 
If he is as shrewd as I think he is , consul , he will come . 
To have his passport visaed ? Yes . 
Passports are only good for annoying honest folks , and aiding in the flight of rogues . 
I assure you it will be quite the thing for him to do but I hope you will not visa the passport . 
Why not ? If the passport is genuine I have no right to refuse . 
Still , I must keep this man here until I can get a warrant to arrest him from London . 
Ah , that's your look out . 
The other , who was his master , held out his passport with the request that the consul would do him the favour to visa it . 
The consul took the document and carefully read it , whilst Fix observed , or rather devoured , the stranger with his eyes from a corner of the room . 
You are Mr. Phileas Fogg ? said the consul , after reading the passport . 
And this man is your servant ? He is a Frenchman , named Passepartout . 
You are from London ? Yes . 
And you are going To Bombay . 
The consul proceeded to sign and date the passport , after which he added his official seal . 
Mr. Fogg paid the customary fee , coldly bowed , and went out , followed by his servant . 
Well ? queried the detective . 
Well , he looks and acts like a perfectly honest man , replied the consul . 
Possibly but that is not the question . 
The servant seems to me less mysterious than the master besides , he's a Frenchman , and can't help talking . 
Excuse me for a little while , consul . 
Fix started off in search of Passepartout . 
He took up his note book , which contained the following memoranda Left London , Wednesday , October nd , at . 
Reached Paris , Thursday , October rd , at . 
Left Paris , Thursday , at . 
Reached Turin by Mont Cenis , Friday , October th , at . 
Left Turin , Friday , at . 
Arrived at Brindisi , Saturday , October th , at p . 
Sailed on the Mongolia , Saturday , at p . 
Reached Suez , Wednesday , October th , at a . 
Total of hours spent , or , in days , six days and a half . 
This methodical record thus contained an account of everything needed , and Mr. Fogg always knew whether he was behind hand or in advance of his time . 
On this Friday , October th , he noted his arrival at Suez , and observed that he had as yet neither gained nor lost . 
Well , my friend , said the detective , coming up with him , is your passport visaed ? Ah , it's you , is it , monsieur ? responded Passepartout . 
Thanks , yes , the passport is all right . 
And you are looking about you ? Yes but we travel so fast that I seem to be journeying in a dream . 
So this is Suez ? Yes . 
In Egypt ? Certainly , in Egypt . 
And in Africa ? In Africa . 
In Africa ! repeated Passepartout . 
By the way , I must buy some shoes and shirts . 
We came away without trunks , only with a carpet bag . 
I will show you an excellent shop for getting what you want . 
Really , monsieur , you are very kind . 
And they walked off together , Passepartout chatting volubly as they went along . 
Above all , said he don't let me lose the steamer . 
You have plenty of time it's only twelve o'clock . 
Passepartout pulled out his big watch . 
Twelve ! he exclaimed why , it's only eight minutes before ten . 
My watch ? A family watch , monsieur , which has come down from my great grandfather ! It doesn't vary five minutes in the year . 
It's a perfect chronometer , look you . 
I see how it is , said Fix . 
You have kept London time , which is two hours behind that of Suez . 
You ought to regulate your watch at noon in each country . 
I regulate my watch ? Never ! Well , then , it will not agree with the sun . 
So much the worse for the sun , monsieur . 
The sun will be wrong , then ! And the worthy fellow returned the watch to its fob with a defiant gesture . 
But where is your master going ? Always straight ahead . 
He is going round the world . 
Round the world ? cried Fix . 
Yes , and in eighty days ! He says it is on a wager but , between us , I don't believe a word of it . 
That wouldn't be common sense . 
There's something else in the wind . 
Ah ! Mr. Fogg is a character , is he ? I should say he was . 
Is he rich ? No doubt , for he is carrying an enormous sum in brand new banknotes with him . 
And you have known your master a long time ? Why , no I entered his service the very day we left London . 
The effect of these replies upon the already suspicious and excited detective may be imagined . 
Fix felt sure that Phileas Fogg would not land at Suez , but was really going on to Bombay . 
Is Bombay far from here ? asked Passepartout . 
It is a ten days' voyage by sea . 
And in what country is Bombay ? India . 
He was not listening , but was cogitating a project . 
Now that he was fully convinced , Fix had quite recovered his equanimity . 
Consul , said he , I have no longer any doubt . 
I have spotted my man . 
He passes himself off as an odd stick who is going round the world in eighty days . 
Then he's a sharp fellow , returned the consul , and counts on returning to London after putting the police of the two countries off his track . 
We'll see about that , replied Fix . 
But are you not mistaken ? I am not mistaken . 
Why was this robber so anxious to prove , by the visa , that he had passed through Suez ? Why ? I have no idea but listen to me . 
He reported in a few words the most important parts of his conversation with Passepartout . 
In short , said the consul , appearances are wholly against this man . 
The Mongolia , thanks to the vigorous exertions of the engineer , seemed likely , so rapid was her speed , to reach her destination considerably within that time . 
What with the military men , a number of rich young Englishmen on their travels , and the hospitable efforts of the purser , the time passed quickly on the Mongolia . 
But the Red Sea is full of caprice , and often boisterous , like most long and narrow gulfs . 
When the wind came from the African or Asian coast the Mongolia , with her long hull , rolled fearfully . 
Then the ladies speedily disappeared below the pianos were silent singing and dancing suddenly ceased . 
Yet the good ship ploughed straight on , unretarded by wind or wave , towards the straits of Bab el Mandeb . 
But , if he thought of these possibilities , he did not betray the fact by any outward sign . 
A tax collector , on the way to his post at Goa the Rev . 
As for Passepartout , he , too , had escaped sea sickness , and took his meals conscientiously in the forward cabin . 
He was pleased , on the day after leaving Suez , to find on deck the obliging person with whom he had walked and chatted on the quays . 
You are the servant of the strange Englishman Just so , monsieur Fix . 
Monsieur Fix , resumed Passepartout , I'm charmed to find you on board . 
Where are you bound ? Like you , to Bombay . 
That's capital ! Have you made this trip before ? Several times . 
I am one of the agents of the Peninsular Company . 
Then you know India ? Why yes , replied Fix , who spoke cautiously . 
A curious place , this India ? Oh , very curious . 
Mosques , minarets , temples , fakirs , pagodas , tigers , snakes , elephants ! I hope you will have ample time to see the sights . 
I hope so , Monsieur Fix . 
And Mr. Fogg is getting on well ? asked Fix , in the most natural tone in the world . 
Quite well , and I too . 
I eat like a famished ogre it's the sea air . 
But I never see your master on deck . 
Never he hasn't the least curiosity . 
After this meeting , Passepartout and Fix got into the habit of chatting together , the latter making it a point to gain the worthy man's confidence . 
Passepartout was ravished to behold this celebrated place , and thought that , with its circular walls and dismantled fort , it looked like an immense coffee cup and saucer . 
This matter of fuelling steamers is a serious one at such distances from the coal mines it costs the Peninsular Company some eight hundred thousand pounds a year . 
In these distant seas , coal is worth three or four pounds sterling a ton . 
The Mongolia had still sixteen hundred and fifty miles to traverse before reaching Bombay , and was obliged to remain four hours at Steamer Point to coal up . 
Mr. Fogg and his servant went ashore at Aden to have the passport again visaed Fix , unobserved , followed them . 
Very curious , very curious , said Passepartout to himself , on returning to the steamer . 
I see that it is by no means useless to travel , if a man wants to see something new . 
the Mongolia slowly moved out of the roadstead , and was soon once more on the Indian Ocean . 
The steamer rolled but little , the ladies , in fresh toilets , reappeared on deck , and the singing and dancing were resumed . 
The trip was being accomplished most successfully , and Passepartout was enchanted with the congenial companion which chance had secured him in the person of the delightful Fix . 
On Sunday , October th , towards noon , they came in sight of the Indian coast two hours later the pilot came on board . 
A range of hills lay against the sky in the horizon , and soon the rows of palms which adorn Bombay came distinctly into view . 
The steamer entered the road formed by the islands in the bay , and at half past four she hauled up at the quays of Bombay . 
The Mongolia was due at Bombay on the nd she arrived on the th . 
This was a gain to Phileas Fogg of two days since his departure from London , and he calmly entered the fact in the itinerary , in the column of gains . 
But British India , properly so called , only embraces seven hundred thousand square miles , and a population of from one hundred to one hundred and ten millions of inhabitants . 
A considerable portion of India is still free from British authority and there are certain ferocious rajahs in the interior who are absolutely independent . 
It gradually annexed province after province , purchasing them of the native chiefs , whom it seldom paid , and appointed the governor general and his subordinates , civil and military . 
But the East India Company has now passed away , leaving the British possessions in India directly under the control of the Crown . 
The aspect of the country , as well as the manners and distinctions of race , is daily changing . 
This railway does not run in a direct line across India . 
The passengers of the Mongolia went ashore at half past four p . 
at exactly eight the train would start for Calcutta . 
Having transacted his business at the passport office , Phileas Fogg repaired quietly to the railway station , where he ordered dinner . 
Among the dishes served up to him , the landlord especially recommended a certain giblet of native rabbit , on which he prided himself . 
Mr. Fogg accordingly tasted the dish , but , despite its spiced sauce , found it far from palatable . 
That was a good time . 
For the cats , my lord ? Perhaps for the travellers as well ! After which Mr. Fogg quietly continued his dinner . 
Fix had gone on shore shortly after Mr. Fogg , and his first destination was the headquarters of the Bombay police . 
It had not reached the office indeed , there had not yet been time for it to arrive . 
Fix was sorely disappointed , and tried to obtain an order of arrest from the director of the Bombay police . 
This the director refused , as the matter concerned the London office , which alone could legally deliver the warrant . 
He did not doubt for a moment , any more than Passepartout , that Phileas Fogg would remain there , at least until it was time for the warrant to arrive . 
It happened to be the day of a Parsee festival . 
It is needless to say that Passepartout watched these curious ceremonies with staring eyes and gaping mouth , and that his countenance was that of the greenest booby imaginable . 
Unhappily for his master , as well as himself , his curiosity drew him unconsciously farther off than he intended to go . 
He was quite ignorant that it is forbidden to Christians to enter certain Indian temples , and that even the faithful must not go in without first leaving their shoes outside the door . 
It may be said here that the wise policy of the British Government severely punishes a disregard of the practices of the native religions . 
He looked up to behold three enraged priests , who forthwith fell upon him tore off his shoes , and began to beat him with loud , savage exclamations . 
At five minutes before eight , Passepartout , hatless , shoeless , and having in the squabble lost his package of shirts and shoes , rushed breathlessly into the station . 
Fix , who had followed Mr. Fogg to the station , and saw that he was really going to leave Bombay , was there , upon the platform . 
He had resolved to follow the supposed robber to Calcutta , and farther , if necessary . 
Passepartout did not observe the detective , who stood in an obscure corner but Fix heard him relate his adventures in a few words to Mr. Fogg . 
I hope that this will not happen again , said Phileas Fogg coldly , as he got into the train . 
Poor Passepartout , quite crestfallen , followed his master without a word . 
Fix was on the point of entering another carriage , when an idea struck him which induced him to alter his plan . 
No , I'll stay , muttered he . 
An offence has been committed on Indian soil . 
Just then the locomotive gave a sharp screech , and the train passed out into the darkness of the night . 
Chapter XI IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG SECURES A CURIOUS MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AT A FABULOUS PRICE The train had started punctually . 
Among the passengers were a number of officers , Government officials , and opium and indigo merchants , whose business called them to the eastern coast . 
Passepartout rode in the same carriage with his master , and a third passenger occupied a seat opposite to them . 
This was Sir Francis Cromarty , one of Mr. Fogg's whist partners on the Mongolia , now on his way to join his corps at Benares . 
Sir Francis was a tall , fair man of fifty , who had greatly distinguished himself in the last Sepoy revolt . 
The brigadier general was free to mentally confess that , of all the eccentric persons he had ever met , none was comparable to this product of the exact sciences . 
In the way this strange gentleman was going on , he would leave the world without having done any good to himself or anybody else . 
An hour after leaving Bombay the train had passed the viaducts and the Island of Salcette , and had got into the open country . 
Such a delay would not have deranged my plans in the least , said Mr. Fogg . 
I have constantly foreseen the likelihood of certain obstacles . 
But , Mr. Fogg , pursued Sir Francis , you run the risk of having some difficulty about this worthy fellow's adventure at the pagoda . 
Passepartout , his feet comfortably wrapped in his travelling blanket , was sound asleep and did not dream that anybody was talking about him . 
The Government is very severe upon that kind of offence . 
I don't see how this affair could have delayed his master . 
This fertile territory is watered by numerous small rivers and limpid streams , mostly tributaries of the Godavery . 
Passepartout , on waking and looking out , could not realise that he was actually crossing India in a railway train . 
, and marvellous temples enriched by the exhaustless ornamentation of Indian architecture . 
The travellers crossed , beyond Milligaum , the fatal country so often stained with blood by the sectaries of the goddess Kali . 
It was thereabouts that Feringhea , the Thuggee chief , king of the stranglers , held his sway . 
The English Government has succeeded in greatly diminishing these murders , though the Thuggees still exist , and pursue the exercise of their horrible rites . 
Passepartout was now plunged into absorbing reverie . 
His old vagabond nature returned to him the fantastic ideas of his youth once more took possession of him . 
Already he began to worry about possible delays , and accidents which might happen on the way . 
The worthy fellow was ignorant that , while it was possible by such means to hasten the rate of a steamer , it could not be done on the railway . 
The train entered the defiles of the Sutpour Mountains , which separate the Khandeish from Bundelcund , towards evening . 
The next day Sir Francis Cromarty asked Passepartout what time it was to which , on consulting his watch , he replied that it was three in the morning . 
This famous timepiece , always regulated on the Greenwich meridian , which was now some seventy seven degrees westward , was at least four hours slow . 
It was an innocent delusion which could harm no one . 
The train stopped , at eight o'clock , in the midst of a glade some fifteen miles beyond Rothal , where there were several bungalows , and workmen's cabins . 
Passepartout , not less surprised , rushed out and speedily returned , crying Monsieur , no more railway ! What do you mean ? asked Sir Francis . 
I mean to say that the train isn't going on . 
The general at once stepped out , while Phileas Fogg calmly followed him , and they proceeded together to the conductor . 
Where are we ? asked Sir Francis . 
At the hamlet of Kholby . 
Do we stop here ? Certainly . 
What ! not finished ? No. There's still a matter of fifty miles to be laid from here to Allahabad , where the line begins again . 
But the papers announced the opening of the railway throughout . 
What would you have , officer ? The papers were mistaken . 
Yet you sell tickets from Bombay to Calcutta , retorted Sir Francis , who was growing warm . 
No doubt , replied the conductor but the passengers know that they must provide means of transportation for themselves from Kholby to Allahabad . 
Passepartout would willingly have knocked the conductor down , and did not dare to look at his master . 
Sir Francis , said Mr. Fogg quietly , we will , if you please , look about for some means of conveyance to Allahabad . 
Mr. Fogg , this is a delay greatly to your disadvantage . 
No , Sir Francis it was foreseen . 
What ! You knew that the way Not at all but I knew that some obstacle or other would sooner or later arise on my route . 
Nothing , therefore , is lost . 
I have two days , which I have already gained , to sacrifice . 
A steamer leaves Calcutta for Hong Kong at noon , on the th . 
This is the nd , and we shall reach Calcutta in time . 
There was nothing to say to so confident a response . 
It was but too true that the railway came to a termination at this point . 
The papers were like some watches , which have a way of getting too fast , and had been premature in their announcement of the completion of the line . 
Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty , after searching the village from end to end , came back without having found anything . 
I shall go afoot , said Phileas Fogg . 
Passepartout , who had now rejoined his master , made a wry grimace , as he thought of his magnificent , but too frail Indian shoes . 
Happily he too had been looking about him , and , after a moment's hesitation , said , Monsieur , I think I have found a means of conveyance . 
What ? An elephant ! An elephant that belongs to an Indian who lives but a hundred steps from here . 
Let's go and see the elephant , replied Mr. Fogg . 
They soon reached a small hut , near which , enclosed within some high palings , was the animal in question . 
An Indian came out of the hut , and , at their request , conducted them within the enclosure . 
The elephant , which its owner had reared , not for a beast of burden , but for warlike purposes , was half domesticated . 
Happily , however , for Mr. Fogg , the animal's instruction in this direction had not gone far , and the elephant still preserved his natural gentleness . 
When therefore Mr. Fogg proposed to the Indian to hire Kiouni , he refused point blank . 
Mr. Fogg persisted , offering the excessive sum of ten pounds an hour for the loan of the beast to Allahabad . 
Twenty pounds ? Refused also . 
Forty pounds ? Still refused . 
Passepartout jumped at each advance but the Indian declined to be tempted . 
Yet the offer was an alluring one , for , supposing it took the elephant fifteen hours to reach Allahabad , his owner would receive no less than six hundred pounds sterling . 
Phileas Fogg , without getting in the least flurried , then proposed to purchase the animal outright , and at first offered a thousand pounds for him . 
The Indian , perhaps thinking he was going to make a great bargain , still refused . 
Returning to the Indian , whose small , sharp eyes , glistening with avarice , betrayed that with him it was only a question of how great a price he could obtain . 
Mr. Fogg offered first twelve hundred , then fifteen hundred , eighteen hundred , two thousand pounds . 
Passepartout , usually so rubicund , was fairly white with suspense . 
At two thousand pounds the Indian yielded . 
What a price , good heavens ! cried Passepartout , for an elephant . 
It only remained now to find a guide , which was comparatively easy . 
A young Parsee , with an intelligent face , offered his services , which Mr. Fogg accepted , promising so generous a reward as to materially stimulate his zeal . 
The elephant was led out and equipped . 
The Parsee , who was an accomplished elephant driver , covered his back with a sort of saddle cloth , and attached to each of his flanks some curiously uncomfortable howdahs . 
Phileas Fogg paid the Indian with some banknotes which he extracted from the famous carpet bag , a proceeding that seemed to deprive poor Passepartout of his vitals . 
Then he offered to carry Sir Francis to Allahabad , which the brigadier gratefully accepted , as one traveller the more would not be likely to fatigue the gigantic beast . 
Provisions were purchased at Kholby , and , while Sir Francis and Mr. Fogg took the howdahs on either side , Passepartout got astride the saddle cloth between them . 
This line , owing to the capricious turnings of the Vindhia Mountains , did not pursue a straight course . 
The Parsee , who was quite familiar with the roads and paths in the district , declared that they would gain twenty miles by striking directly through the forest . 
Neither Sir Francis nor Mr. Fogg regretted the delay , and both descended with a feeling of relief . 
Why , he's made of iron ! exclaimed the general , gazing admiringly on Kiouni . 
Of forged iron , replied Passepartout , as he set about preparing a hasty breakfast . 
At noon the Parsee gave the signal of departure . 
The country soon presented a very savage aspect . 
Copses of dates and dwarf palms succeeded the dense forests then vast , dry plains , dotted with scanty shrubs , and sown with great blocks of syenite . 
All this portion of Bundelcund , which is little frequented by travellers , is inhabited by a fanatical population , hardened in the most horrible practices of the Hindoo faith . 
The travellers several times saw bands of ferocious Indians , who , when they perceived the elephant striding across country , made angry arid threatening motions . 
The Parsee avoided them as much as possible . 
Few animals were observed on the route even the monkeys hurried from their path with contortions and grimaces which convulsed Passepartout with laughter . 
In the midst of his gaiety , however , one thought troubled the worthy servant . 
Would he sell him , or set him free ? The estimable beast certainly deserved some consideration . 
Should Mr. Fogg choose to make him , Passepartout , a present of Kiouni , he would be very much embarrassed and these thoughts did not cease worrying him for a long time . 
The principal chain of the Vindhias was crossed by eight in the evening , and another halt was made on the northern slope , in a ruined bungalow . 
They had gone nearly twenty five miles that day , and an equal distance still separated them from the station of Allahabad . 
The conversation , beginning with a few disconnected phrases , soon gave place to loud and steady snores . 
The guide watched Kiouni , who slept standing , bolstering himself against the trunk of a large tree . 
Sir Francis slept heavily , like an honest soldier overcome with fatigue . 
Passepartout was wrapped in uneasy dreams of the bouncing of the day before . 
As for Mr. Fogg , he slumbered as peacefully as if he had been in his serene mansion in Saville Row . 
The journey was resumed at six in the morning the guide hoped to reach Allahabad by evening . 
In that case , Mr. Fogg would only lose a part of the forty eight hours saved since the beginning of the tour . 
The guide avoided inhabited places , thinking it safer to keep the open country , which lies along the first depressions of the basin of the great river . 
Allahabad was now only twelve miles to the north east . 
They stopped under a clump of bananas , the fruit of which , as healthy as bread and as succulent as cream , was amply partaken of and appreciated . 
At two o'clock the guide entered a thick forest which extended several miles he preferred to travel under cover of the woods . 
They had not as yet had any unpleasant encounters , and the journey seemed on the point of being successfully accomplished , when the elephant , becoming restless , suddenly stopped . 
It was then four o'clock . 
What's the matter ? asked Sir Francis , putting out his head . 
I don't know , officer , replied the Parsee , listening attentively to a confused murmur which came through the thick branches . 
The murmur soon became more distinct it now seemed like a distant concert of human voices accompanied by brass instruments . 
Passepartout was all eyes and ears . 
Mr. Fogg patiently waited without a word . 
The Parsee jumped to the ground , fastened the elephant to a tree , and plunged into the thicket . 
He soon returned , saying A procession of Brahmins is coming this way . 
We must prevent their seeing us , if possible . 
The guide unloosed the elephant and led him into a thicket , at the same time asking the travellers not to stir . 
The discordant tones of the voices and instruments drew nearer , and now droning songs mingled with the sound of the tambourines and cymbals . 
The head of the procession soon appeared beneath the trees , a hundred paces away and the strange figures who performed the religious ceremony were easily distinguished through the branches . 
First came the priests , with mitres on their heads , and clothed in long lace robes . 
It stood upright upon the figure of a prostrate and headless giant . 
Sir Francis , recognising the statue , whispered , The goddess Kali the goddess of love and death . 
Of death , perhaps , muttered back Passepartout , but of love that ugly old hag ? Never ! The Parsee made a motion to keep silence . 
Some Brahmins , clad in all the sumptuousness of Oriental apparel , and leading a woman who faltered at every step , followed . 
This woman was young , and as fair as a European . 
Next came the musicians and a rearguard of capering fakirs , whose cries sometimes drowned the noise of the instruments these closed the procession . 
Sir Francis watched the procession with a sad countenance , and , turning to the guide , said , A suttee . 
The Parsee nodded , and put his finger to his lips . 
The procession slowly wound under the trees , and soon its last ranks disappeared in the depths of the wood . 
The songs gradually died away occasionally cries were heard in the distance , until at last all was silence again . 
The woman you have just seen will be burned to morrow at the dawn of day . 
Oh , the scoundrels ! cried Passepartout , who could not repress his indignation . 
And the corpse ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
Is that of the prince , her husband , said the guide an independent rajah of Bundelcund . 
The whole district north of the Vindhias is the theatre of incessant murders and pillage . 
The poor wretch ! exclaimed Passepartout , to be burned alive ! Yes , returned Sir Francis , burned alive . 
And , if she were not , you cannot conceive what treatment she would be obliged to submit to from her relatives . 
The prospect of so frightful an existence drives these poor creatures to the sacrifice much more than love or religious fanaticism . 
Sometimes , however , the sacrifice is really voluntary , and it requires the active interference of the Government to prevent it . 
The woman left the town , took refuge with an independent rajah , and there carried out her self devoted purpose . 
While Sir Francis was speaking , the guide shook his head several times , and now said The sacrifice which will take place to morrow at dawn is not a voluntary one . 
How do you know ? Everybody knows about this affair in Bundelcund . 
But the wretched creature did not seem to be making any resistance , observed Sir Francis . 
That was because they had intoxicated her with fumes of hemp and opium . 
But where are they taking her ? To the pagoda of Pillaji , two miles from here she will pass the night there . 
And the sacrifice will take place To morrow , at the first light of dawn . 
The guide now led the elephant out of the thicket , and leaped upon his neck . 
Save the woman , Mr. Fogg ! I have yet twelve hours to spare I can devote them to that . 
Why , you are a man of heart ! Sometimes , replied Phileas Fogg , quietly when I have the time . 
Chapter XIII IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT RECEIVES A NEW PROOF THAT FORTUNE FAVORS THE BRAVE The project was a bold one , full of difficulty , perhaps impracticable . 
Mr. Fogg was going to risk life , or at least liberty , and therefore the success of his tour . 
But he did not hesitate , and he found in Sir Francis Cromarty an enthusiastic ally . 
As for Passepartout , he was ready for anything that might be proposed . 
His master's idea charmed him he perceived a heart , a soul , under that icy exterior . 
He began to love Phileas Fogg . 
Sir Francis frankly put the question to him . 
Officers , replied the guide , I am a Parsee , and this woman is a Parsee . 
Command me as you will . 
Excellent ! said Mr. Fogg . 
However , resumed the guide , it is certain , not only that we shall risk our lives , but horrible tortures , if we are taken . 
That is foreseen , replied Mr. Fogg . 
I think we must wait till night before acting . 
I think so , said the guide . 
The worthy Indian then gave some account of the victim , who , he said , was a celebrated beauty of the Parsee race , and the daughter of a wealthy Bombay merchant . 
She had received a thoroughly English education in that city , and , from her manners and intelligence , would be thought an European . 
The Parsee's narrative only confirmed Mr. Fogg and his companions in their generous design . 
It was decided that the guide should direct the elephant towards the pagoda of Pillaji , which he accordingly approached as quickly as possible . 
They then discussed the means of getting at the victim . 
The guide was familiar with the pagoda of Pillaji , in which , as he declared , the young woman was imprisoned . 
Then no human intervention could save her . 
As soon as night fell , about six o'clock , they decided to make a reconnaissance around the pagoda . 
The pagoda , whose minarets loomed above the trees in the deepening dusk , stood a hundred steps away . 
Come ! whispered the guide . 
He slipped more cautiously than ever through the brush , followed by his companions the silence around was only broken by the low murmuring of the wind among the branches . 
Soon the Parsee stopped on the borders of the glade , which was lit up by the torches . 
The ground was covered by groups of the Indians , motionless in their drunken sleep it seemed a battlefield strewn with the dead . 
Men , women , and children lay together . 
In the background , among the trees , the pagoda of Pillaji loomed distinctly . 
The Parsee , now convinced that it was impossible to force an entrance to the temple , advanced no farther , but led his companions back again . 
Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty also saw that nothing could be attempted in that direction . 
They stopped , and engaged in a whispered colloquy . 
It is only eight now , said the brigadier , and these guards may also go to sleep . 
It is not impossible , returned the Parsee . 
They lay down at the foot of a tree , and waited . 
They waited till midnight but no change took place among the guards , and it became apparent that their yielding to sleep could not be counted on . 
The other plan must be carried out an opening in the walls of the pagoda must be made . 
It remained to ascertain whether the priests were watching by the side of their victim as assiduously as were the soldiers at the door . 
After a last consultation , the guide announced that he was ready for the attempt , and advanced , followed by the others . 
They took a roundabout way , so as to get at the pagoda on the rear . 
They reached the walls about half past twelve , without having met anyone here there was no guard , nor were there either windows or doors . 
The moon , on the wane , scarcely left the horizon , and was covered with heavy clouds the height of the trees deepened the darkness . 
It was not enough to reach the walls an opening in them must be accomplished , and to attain this purpose the party only had their pocket knives . 
Happily the temple walls were built of brick and wood , which could be penetrated with little difficulty after one brick had been taken out , the rest would yield easily . 
They set noiselessly to work , and the Parsee on one side and Passepartout on the other began to loosen the bricks so as to make an aperture two feet wide . 
They were getting on rapidly , when suddenly a cry was heard in the interior of the temple , followed almost instantly by other cries replying from the outside . 
Passepartout and the guide stopped . 
Had they been heard ? Was the alarm being given ? Common prudence urged them to retire , and they did so , followed by Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis . 
They again hid themselves in the wood , and waited till the disturbance , whatever it might be , ceased , holding themselves ready to resume their attempt without delay . 
But , awkwardly enough , the guards now appeared at the rear of the temple , and there installed themselves , in readiness to prevent a surprise . 
It would be difficult to describe the disappointment of the party , thus interrupted in their work . 
The tranquil Fogg waited , without betraying any emotion . 
We have nothing to do but to go away , whispered Sir Francis . 
Nothing but to go away , echoed the guide . 
I am only due at Allahabad tomorrow before noon . 
But what can you hope to do ? asked Sir Francis . 
In a few hours it will be daylight , and The chance which now seems lost may present itself at the last moment . 
Sir Francis would have liked to read Phileas Fogg's eyes . 
Sir Francis consented , however , to remain to the end of this terrible drama . 
The guide led them to the rear of the glade , where they were able to observe the sleeping groups . 
The hours passed , and the lighter shades now announced the approach of day , though it was not yet light . 
The slumbering multitude became animated , the tambourines sounded , songs and cries arose the hour of the sacrifice had come . 
The doors of the pagoda swung open , and a bright light escaped from its interior , in the midst of which Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis espied the victim . 
She seemed , having shaken off the stupor of intoxication , to be striving to escape from her executioner . 
Sir Francis's heart throbbed and , convulsively seizing Mr. Fogg's hand , found in it an open knife . 
Just at this moment the crowd began to move . 
The young woman had again fallen into a stupor caused by the fumes of hemp , and passed among the fakirs , who escorted her with their wild , religious cries . 
In the semi obscurity they saw the victim , quite senseless , stretched out beside her husband's body . 
Then a torch was brought , and the wood , heavily soaked with oil , instantly took fire . 
At this moment Sir Francis and the guide seized Phileas Fogg , who , in an instant of mad generosity , was about to rush upon the pyre . 
But he had quickly pushed them aside , when the whole scene suddenly changed . 
A cry of terror arose . 
The whole multitude prostrated themselves , terror stricken , on the ground . 
Fakirs and soldiers and priests , seized with instant terror , lay there , with their faces on the ground , not daring to lift their eyes and behold such a prodigy . 
The inanimate victim was borne along by the vigorous arms which supported her , and which she did not seem in the least to burden . 
Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis stood erect , the Parsee bowed his head , and Passepartout was , no doubt , scarcely less stupefied . 
A moment after all four of the party had disappeared in the woods , and the elephant was bearing them away at a rapid pace . 
But the cries and noise , and a ball which whizzed through Phileas Fogg's hat , apprised them that the trick had been discovered . 
The old rajah's body , indeed , now appeared upon the burning pyre and the priests , recovered from their terror , perceived that an abduction had taken place . 
They made a halt at seven o'clock , the young woman being still in a state of complete prostration . 
The guide made her drink a little brandy and water , but the drowsiness which stupefied her could not yet be shaken off . 
Sir Francis , who was familiar with the effects of the intoxication produced by the fumes of hemp , reassured his companions on her account . 
But he was more disturbed at the prospect of her future fate . 
He told Phileas Fogg that , should Aouda remain in India , she would inevitably fall again into the hands of her executioners . 
These fanatics were scattered throughout the county , and would , despite the English police , recover their victim at Madras , Bombay , or Calcutta . 
She would only be safe by quitting India for ever . 
Phileas Fogg replied that he would reflect upon the matter . 
The station at Allahabad was reached about ten o'clock , and , the interrupted line of railway being resumed , would enable them to reach Calcutta in less than twenty four hours . 
Phileas Fogg would thus be able to arrive in time to take the steamer which left Calcutta the next day , October th , at noon , for Hong Kong . 
The Ganges , according to the legends of the Ramayana , rises in heaven , whence , owing to Brahma's agency , it descends to the earth . 
Passepartout made it a point , as he made his purchases , to take a good look at the city . 
He then returned triumphantly to the station . 
The influence to which the priests of Pillaji had subjected Aouda began gradually to yield , and she became more herself , so that her fine eyes resumed all their soft Indian expression . 
Her teeth , fine , equal , and white , glitter between her smiling lips like dewdrops in a passion flower's half enveloped breast . 
It is enough to say , without applying this poetical rhapsody to Aouda , that she was a charming woman , in all the European acceptation of the phrase . 
She spoke English with great purity , and the guide had not exaggerated in saying that the young Parsee had been transformed by her bringing up . 
He had , indeed , risked his life in the adventure at Pillaji , and , if he should be caught afterwards by the Indians , he would with difficulty escape their vengeance . 
Kiouni , also , must be disposed of . 
What should be done with the elephant , which had been so dearly purchased ? Phileas Fogg had already determined this question . 
Parsee , said he to the guide , you have been serviceable and devoted . 
I have paid for your service , but not for your devotion . 
Would you like to have this elephant ? He is yours . 
Your honour is giving me a fortune ! cried he . 
Take him , guide , returned Mr. Fogg , and I shall still be your debtor . 
Kiouni is a brave and faithful beast . 
And , going up to the elephant , he gave him several lumps of sugar , saying , Here , Kiouni , here , here . 
The elephant grunted out his satisfaction , and , clasping Passepartout around the waist with his trunk , lifted him as high as his head . 
Passepartout , not in the least alarmed , caressed the animal , which replaced him gently on the ground . 
Soon after , Phileas Fogg , Sir Francis Cromarty , and Passepartout , installed in a carriage with Aouda , who had the best seat , were whirling at full speed towards Benares . 
It was a run of eighty miles , and was accomplished in two hours . 
During the journey , the young woman fully recovered her senses . 
Mr. Fogg said nothing while Passepartout , abashed , kept repeating that it wasn't worth telling . 
Aouda pathetically thanked her deliverers , rather with tears than words her fine eyes interpreted her gratitude better than her lips . 
Then , as her thoughts strayed back to the scene of the sacrifice , and recalled the dangers which still menaced her , she shuddered with terror . 
At half past twelve the train stopped at Benares . 
Benares was Sir Francis Cromarty's destination , the troops he was rejoining being encamped some miles northward of the city . 
He bade adieu to Phileas Fogg , wishing him all success , and expressing the hope that he would come that way again in a less original but more profitable fashion . 
Mr. Fogg lightly pressed him by the hand . 
The railway , on leaving Benares , passed for a while along the valley of the Ganges . 
Elephants were bathing in the waters of the sacred river , and groups of Indians , despite the advanced season and chilly air , were performing solemnly their pious ablutions . 
Calcutta was reached at seven in the morning , and the packet left for Hong Kong at noon so that Phileas Fogg had five hours before him . 
According to his journal , he was due at Calcutta on the th of October , and that was the exact date of his actual arrival . 
He was therefore neither behind hand nor ahead of time . 
The two days gained between London and Bombay had been lost , as has been seen , in the journey across India . 
But it is not to be supposed that Phileas Fogg regretted them . 
Phileas Fogg intended to proceed at once to the Hong Kong steamer , in order to get Aouda comfortably settled for the voyage . 
He was unwilling to leave her while they were still on dangerous ground . 
Just as he was leaving the station a policeman came up to him , and said , Mr. Phileas Fogg ? I am he . 
Is this man your servant ? added the policeman , pointing to Passepartout . 
Be so good , both of you , as to follow me . 
Mr. Fogg betrayed no surprise whatever . 
The policeman was a representative of the law , and law is sacred to an Englishman . 
Passepartout tried to reason about the matter , but the policeman tapped him with his stick , and Mr. Fogg made him a signal to obey . 
May this young lady go with us ? asked he . 
She may , replied the policeman . 
No one spoke during the twenty minutes which elapsed before they reached their destination . 
The carriage stopped before a modest looking house , which , however , did not have the appearance of a private mansion . 
He then retired , and closed the door . 
Why , we are prisoners ! exclaimed Passepartout , falling into a chair . 
It was quite unlikely that he should be arrested for preventing a suttee . 
The complainants would not dare present themselves with such a charge . 
Moreover , he would not , in any event , abandon Aouda , but would escort her to Hong Kong . 
But the steamer leaves at noon ! observed Passepartout , nervously . 
We shall be on board by noon , replied his master , placidly . 
It was said so positively that Passepartout could not help muttering to himself , Parbleu that's certain ! Before noon we shall be on board . 
But he was by no means reassured . 
At half past eight the door opened , the policeman appeared , and , requesting them to follow him , led the way to an adjoining hall . 
It was evidently a court room , and a crowd of Europeans and natives already occupied the rear of the apartment . 
Mr. Fogg and his two companions took their places on a bench opposite the desks of the magistrate and his clerk . 
Immediately after , Judge Obadiah , a fat , round man , followed by the clerk , entered . 
He proceeded to take down a wig which was hanging on a nail , and put it hurriedly on his head . 
The first case , said he . 
Then , putting his hand to his head , he exclaimed , Heh ! This is not my wig ! No , your worship , returned the clerk , it is mine . 
My dear Mr. Oysterpuff , how can a judge give a wise sentence in a clerk's wig ? The wigs were exchanged . 
Passepartout was getting nervous , for the hands on the face of the big clock over the judge seemed to go around with terrible rapidity . 
The first case , repeated Judge Obadiah . 
Phileas Fogg ? demanded Oysterpuff . 
I am here , replied Mr. Fogg . 
Passepartout ? Present , responded Passepartout . 
Good , said the judge . 
You have been looked for , prisoners , for two days on the trains from Bombay . 
But of what are we accused ? asked Passepartout , impatiently . 
You are about to be informed . 
I am an English subject , sir , said Mr. Fogg , and I have the right Have you been ill treated ? Not at all . 
Very well let the complainants come in . 
A door was swung open by order of the judge , and three Indian priests entered . 
That's it , muttered Passepartout these are the rogues who were going to burn our young lady . 
You hear the charge ? asked the judge . 
Yes , sir , replied Mr. Fogg , consulting his watch , and I admit it . 
You admit it ? I admit it , and I wish to hear these priests admit , in their turn , what they were going to do at the pagoda of Pillaji . 
The priests looked at each other they did not seem to understand what was said . 
Yes , cried Passepartout , warmly at the pagoda of Pillaji , where they were on the point of burning their victim . 
The judge stared with astonishment , and the priests were stupefied . 
What victim ? said Judge Obadiah . 
Burn whom ? In Bombay itself ? Bombay ? cried Passepartout . 
We are not talking of the pagoda of Pillaji , but of the pagoda of Malabar Hill , at Bombay . 
And as a proof , added the clerk , here are the desecrator's very shoes , which he left behind him . 
Whereupon he placed a pair of shoes on his desk . 
My shoes ! cried Passepartout , in his surprise permitting this imprudent exclamation to escape him . 
The confusion of master and man , who had quite forgotten the affair at Bombay , for which they were now detained at Calcutta , may be imagined . 
Fix the detective , had foreseen the advantage which Passepartout's escapade gave him , and , delaying his departure for twelve hours , had consulted the priests of Malabar Hill . 
Knowing that the English authorities dealt very severely with this kind of misdemeanour , he promised them a goodly sum in damages , and sent them forward to Calcutta by the next train . 
Fix's disappointment when he learned that Phileas Fogg had not made his appearance in Calcutta may be imagined . 
He made up his mind that the robber had stopped somewhere on the route and taken refuge in the southern provinces . 
He hastened for a policeman and this was how the party came to be arrested and brought before Judge Obadiah . 
Judge Obadiah had unfortunately caught Passepartout's rash exclamation , which the poor fellow would have given the world to recall . 
The facts are admitted ? asked the judge . 
Admitted , replied Mr. Fogg , coldly . 
Three hundred pounds ! cried Passepartout , startled at the largeness of the sum . 
Silence ! shouted the constable . 
Fix rubbed his hands softly with satisfaction if Phileas Fogg could be detained in Calcutta a week , it would be more than time for the warrant to arrive . 
This sentence ruined his master . 
Just as the clerk was calling the next case , he rose , and said , I offer bail . 
You have that right , returned the judge . 
Fix's blood ran cold , but he resumed his composure when he heard the judge announce that the bail required for each prisoner would be one thousand pounds . 
This sum will be restored to you upon your release from prison , said the judge . 
Meanwhile , you are liberated on bail . 
Come ! said Phileas Fogg to his servant . 
But let them at least give me back my shoes ! cried Passepartout angrily . 
Ah , these are pretty dear shoes ! he muttered , as they were handed to him . 
More than a thousand pounds apiece besides , they pinch my feet . 
Mr. Fogg , offering his arm to Aouda , then departed , followed by the crestfallen Passepartout . 
That gentleman took a carriage , and the party were soon landed on one of the quays . 
The Rangoon was moored half a mile off in the harbour , its signal of departure hoisted at the mast head . 
Eleven o'clock was striking Mr. Fogg was an hour in advance of time . 
Fix saw them leave the carriage and push off in a boat for the steamer , and stamped his feet with disappointment . 
The rascal is off , after all ! he exclaimed . 
The detective was not far wrong in making this conjecture . 
During the first days of the journey Aouda became better acquainted with her protector , and constantly gave evidence of her deep gratitude for what he had done . 
He visited her regularly each day at certain hours , not so much to talk himself , as to sit and hear her talk . 
He treated her with the strictest politeness , but with the precision of an automaton , the movements of which had been arranged for this purpose . 
After all , she owed Phileas Fogg her life , and she always regarded him through the exalting medium of her gratitude . 
Aouda confirmed the Parsee guide's narrative of her touching history . 
She did , indeed , belong to the highest of the native races of India . 
Many of the Parsee merchants have made great fortunes there by dealing in cotton and one of them , Sir Jametsee Jeejeebhoy , was made a baronet by the English government . 
Aouda was a relative of this great man , and it was his cousin , Jeejeeh , whom she hoped to join at Hong Kong . 
The panorama of the islands , as they steamed by them , was superb . 
The varied landscape afforded by the Andaman Islands was soon passed , however , and the Rangoon rapidly approached the Straits of Malacca , which gave access to the China seas . 
It would have been difficult to explain why he was on board without awakening Passepartout's suspicions , who thought him still at Bombay . 
But necessity impelled him , nevertheless , to renew his acquaintance with the worthy servant , as will be seen . 
All the detective's hopes and wishes were now centred on Hong Kong for the steamer's stay at Singapore would be too brief to enable him to take any steps there . 
The arrest must be made at Hong Kong , or the robber would probably escape him for ever . 
Hong Kong was the last English ground on which he would set foot beyond , China , Japan , America offered to Fogg an almost certain refuge . 
That Passepartout was not Fogg's accomplice , he was very certain . 
The servant , enlightened by his disclosure , and afraid of being himself implicated in the crime , would doubtless become an ally of the detective . 
But this method was a dangerous one , only to be employed when everything else had failed . 
A word from Passepartout to his master would ruin all . 
The detective was therefore in a sore strait . 
But suddenly a new idea struck him . 
The presence of Aouda on the Rangoon , in company with Phileas Fogg , gave him new material for reflection . 
He asked himself whether there had not been a wicked elopement and this idea so impressed itself upon his mind that he determined to make use of the supposed intrigue . 
Fix decided that he must warn the English authorities , and signal the Rangoon before her arrival . 
This was easy to do , since the steamer stopped at Singapore , whence there is a telegraphic wire to Hong Kong . 
He finally resolved , moreover , before acting more positively , to question Passepartout . 
It would not be difficult to make him talk and , as there was no time to lose , Fix prepared to make himself known . 
It was now the th of October , and on the following day the Rangoon was due at Singapore . 
Fix emerged from his cabin and went on deck . 
Passepartout was promenading up and down in the forward part of the steamer . 
Hum ! said Passepartout , who seemed for an instant perplexed . 
But how is it I have not seen you on board since we left Calcutta ? Oh , a trifle of sea sickness I've been staying in my berth . 
The Gulf of Bengal does not agree with me as well as the Indian Ocean . 
A young lady ? replied the detective , not seeming to comprehend what was said . 
Fix , who was familiar with the last events , seemed to be equally ignorant of all that Passepartout related and the later was charmed to find so interested a listener . 
But does your master propose to carry this young woman to Europe ? Not at all . 
We are simply going to place her under the protection of one of her relatives , a rich merchant at Hong Kong . 
Nothing to be done there , said Fix to himself , concealing his disappointment . 
A glass of gin , Mr. Passepartout ? Willingly , Monsieur Fix . 
We must at least have a friendly glass on board the Rangoon . 
Passepartout began very seriously to conjecture what strange chance kept Fix still on the route that his master was pursuing . 
Passepartout might have cudgelled his brain for a century without hitting upon the real object which the detective had in view . 
He never could have imagined that Phileas Fogg was being tracked as a robber around the globe . 
But , as it is in human nature to attempt the solution of every mystery , Passepartout suddenly discovered an explanation of Fix's movements , which was in truth far from unreasonable . 
It's clear ! repeated the worthy servant to himself , proud of his shrewdness . 
But he determined to chaff Fix , when he had the chance , with mysterious allusions , which , however , need not betray his real suspicions . 
During the afternoon of Wednesday , th October , the Rangoon entered the Strait of Malacca , which separates the peninsula of that name from Sumatra . 
The mountainous and craggy islets intercepted the beauties of this noble island from the view of the travellers . 
The Rangoon weighed anchor at Singapore the next day at four a . 
, to receive coal , having gained half a day on the prescribed time of her arrival . 
Phileas Fogg noted this gain in his journal , and then , accompanied by Aouda , who betrayed a desire for a walk on shore , disembarked . 
Fix , who suspected Mr. Fogg's every movement , followed them cautiously , without being himself perceived while Passepartout , laughing in his sleeve at Fix's manoeuvres , went about his usual errands . 
The island of Singapore is not imposing in aspect , for there are no mountains yet its appearance is not without attractions . 
It is a park checkered by pleasant highways and avenues . 
Agile and grinning bands of monkeys skipped about in the trees , nor were tigers wanting in the jungles . 
He was only too glad to offer some mangoes to Aouda , who thanked him very gracefully for them . 
Singapore is distant some thirteen hundred miles from the island of Hong Kong , which is a little English colony near the Chinese coast . 
The weather , which had hitherto been fine , changed with the last quarter of the moon . 
The sea rolled heavily , and the wind at intervals rose almost to a storm , but happily blew from the south west , and thus aided the steamer's progress . 
The captain as often as possible put up his sails , and under the double action of steam and sail the vessel made rapid progress along the coasts of Anam and Cochin China . 
Passepartout blamed the captain , the engineer , and the crew , and consigned all who were connected with the ship to the land where the pepper grows . 
Perhaps the thought of the gas , which was remorselessly burning at his expense in Saville Row , had something to do with his hot impatience . 
You believe in this journey around the world , then ? Absolutely . 
Don't you , Mr. Fix ? I ? I don't believe a word of it . 
You're a sly dog ! said Passepartout , winking at him . 
This expression rather disturbed Fix , without his knowing why . 
Had the Frenchman guessed his real purpose ? He knew not what to think . 
But how could Passepartout have discovered that he was a detective ? Yet , in speaking as he did , the man evidently meant more than he expressed . 
Passepartout went still further the next day he could not hold his tongue . 
America is not far off , and from America to Europe is only a step . 
Fix looked intently at his companion , whose countenance was as serene as possible , and laughed with him . 
But Passepartout persisted in chaffing him by asking him if he made much by his present occupation . 
Yes , and no , returned Fix there is good and bad luck in such things . 
But you must understand that I don't travel at my own expense . 
Oh , I am quite sure of that ! cried Passepartout , laughing heartily . 
Fix , fairly puzzled , descended to his cabin and gave himself up to his reflections . 
He was evidently suspected somehow or other the Frenchman had found out that he was a detective . 
Nevertheless , he preserved his coolness of mind , and at last resolved to deal plainly with Passepartout . 
Such was the situation between Fix and Passepartout . 
Meanwhile Phileas Fogg moved about above them in the most majestic and unconscious indifference . 
He was passing methodically in his orbit around the world , regardless of the lesser stars which gravitated around him . 
Yet there was near by what the astronomers would call a disturbing star , which might have produced an agitation in this gentleman's heart . 
It was every day an increasing wonder to Passepartout , who read in Aouda's eyes the depths of her gratitude to his master . 
Phileas Fogg , though brave and gallant , must be , he thought , quite heartless . 
As to the sentiment which this journey might have awakened in him , there was clearly no trace of such a thing while poor Passepartout existed in perpetual reveries . 
One day he was leaning on the railing of the engine room , and was observing the engine , when a sudden pitch of the steamer threw the screw out of the water . 
The steam came hissing out of the valves and this made Passepartout indignant . 
The valves are not sufficiently charged ! he exclaimed . 
The wind , obstinately remaining in the north west , blew a gale , and retarded the steamer . 
The Rangoon rolled heavily and the passengers became impatient of the long , monstrous waves which the wind raised before their path . 
A sort of tempest arose on the rd of November , the squall knocking the vessel about with fury , and the waves running high . 
The Rangoon reefed all her sails , and even the rigging proved too much , whistling and shaking amid the squall . 
The steamer was forced to proceed slowly , and the captain estimated that she would reach Hong Kong twenty hours behind time , and more if the storm lasted . 
Phileas Fogg gazed at the tempestuous sea , which seemed to be struggling especially to delay him , with his habitual tranquillity . 
But this man of nerve manifested neither impatience nor annoyance it seemed as if the storm were a part of his programme , and had been foreseen . 
Aouda was amazed to find him as calm as he had been from the first time she saw him . 
Fix did not look at the state of things in the same light . 
The storm greatly pleased him . 
His satisfaction would have been complete had the Rangoon been forced to retreat before the violence of wind and waves . 
It mattered not that they made him sea sick he made no account of this inconvenience and , whilst his body was writhing under their effects , his spirit bounded with hopeful exultation . 
Passepartout was enraged beyond expression by the unpropitious weather . 
Everything had gone so well till now ! Earth and sea had seemed to be at his master's service steamers and railways obeyed him wind and steam united to speed his journey . 
Had the hour of adversity come ? Passepartout was as much excited as if the twenty thousand pounds were to come from his own pocket . 
The storm exasperated him , the gale made him furious , and he longed to lash the obstinate sea into obedience . 
Poor fellow ! Fix carefully concealed from him his own satisfaction , for , had he betrayed it , Passepartout could scarcely have restrained himself from personal violence . 
He overwhelmed the captain , officers , and sailors , who could not help laughing at his impatience , with all sorts of questions . 
He wanted to know exactly how long the storm was going to last whereupon he was referred to the barometer , which seemed to have no intention of rising . 
Passepartout shook it , but with no perceptible effect for neither shaking nor maledictions could prevail upon it to change its mind . 
On the th , however , the sea became more calm , and the storm lessened its violence the wind veered southward , and was once more favourable . 
Passepartout cleared up with the weather . 
Some of the sails were unfurled , and the Rangoon resumed its most rapid speed . 
The time lost could not , however , be regained . 
Land was not signalled until five o'clock on the morning of the th the steamer was due on the th . 
Phileas Fogg was twenty four hours behind hand , and the Yokohama steamer would , of course , be missed . 
The pilot went on board at six , and took his place on the bridge , to guide the Rangoon through the channels to the port of Hong Kong . 
Mr. Fogg , bolder than his servant , did not hesitate to approach the pilot , and tranquilly ask him if he knew when a steamer would leave Hong Kong for Yokohama . 
At high tide to morrow morning , answered the pilot . 
Ah ! said Mr. Fogg , without betraying any astonishment . 
Passepartout , who heard what passed , would willingly have embraced the pilot , while Fix would have been glad to twist his neck . 
What is the steamer's name ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
Ought she not to have gone yesterday ? Yes , sir but they had to repair one of her boilers , and so her departure was postponed till to morrow . 
Thank you , returned Mr. Fogg , descending mathematically to the saloon . 
He remounted the bridge , and guided the steamer through the flotilla of junks , tankas , and fishing boats which crowd the harbour of Hong Kong . 
At one o'clock the Rangoon was at the quay , and the passengers were going ashore . 
Mr. Fogg was , it is true , twenty four hours behind his time but this could not seriously imperil the remainder of his tour . 
He found himself , then , about twenty four hours behind hand , thirty five days after leaving London . 
The Carnatic was announced to leave Hong Kong at five the next morning . 
Mr. Fogg had sixteen hours in which to attend to his business there , which was to deposit Aouda safely with her wealthy relative . 
On landing , he conducted her to a palanquin , in which they repaired to the Club Hotel . 
A room was engaged for the young woman , and Mr. Fogg , after seeing that she wanted for nothing , set out in search of her cousin Jeejeeh . 
He instructed Passepartout to remain at the hotel until his return , that Aouda might not be left entirely alone . 
Mr. Fogg repaired to the Exchange , where , he did not doubt , every one would know so wealthy and considerable a personage as the Parsee merchant . 
Aouda at first said nothing . 
She passed her hand across her forehead , and reflected a few moments . 
Then , in her sweet , soft voice , she said What ought I to do , Mr. Fogg ? It is very simple , responded the gentleman . 
But I cannot intrude You do not intrude , nor do you in the least embarrass my project . 
Go to the Carnatic , and engage three cabins . 
The island is situated at the mouth of the Canton River , and is separated by about sixty miles from the Portuguese town of Macao , on the opposite coast . 
Hong Kong has beaten Macao in the struggle for the Chinese trade , and now the greater part of the transportation of Chinese goods finds its depot at the former place . 
Hong Kong seemed to him not unlike Bombay , Calcutta , and Singapore , since , like them , it betrayed everywhere the evidence of English supremacy . 
Passepartout noticed in the crowd a number of the natives who seemed very old and were dressed in yellow . 
Passepartout , without exactly knowing why , thought this very funny . 
On reaching the quay where they were to embark on the Carnatic , he was not astonished to find Fix walking up and down . 
The detective seemed very much disturbed and disappointed . 
This is bad , muttered Passepartout , for the gentlemen of the Reform Club ! He accosted Fix with a merry smile , as if he had not perceived that gentleman's chagrin . 
The detective had , indeed , good reasons to inveigh against the bad luck which pursued him . 
Well , Monsieur Fix , said Passepartout , have you decided to go with us so far as America ? Yes , returned Fix , through his set teeth . 
Good ! exclaimed Passepartout , laughing heartily . 
I knew you could not persuade yourself to separate from us . 
Come and engage your berth . 
They entered the steamer office and secured cabins for four persons . 
That will suit my master all the better , said Passepartout . 
I will go and let him know . 
Fix now decided to make a bold move he resolved to tell Passepartout all . 
It seemed to be the only possible means of keeping Phileas Fogg several days longer at Hong Kong . 
He accordingly invited his companion into a tavern which caught his eye on the quay . 
On entering , they found themselves in a large room handsomely decorated , at the end of which was a large camp bed furnished with cushions . 
Several persons lay upon this bed in a deep sleep . 
The bed already supported twenty of these stupefied sots . 
It passed gradually from the rich , to whom it was at first exclusively reserved , to the lower classes , and then its ravages could not be arrested . 
A great smoker can smoke as many as eight pipes a day but he dies in five years . 
It was in one of these dens that Fix and Passepartout , in search of a friendly glass , found themselves . 
Passepartout had no money , but willingly accepted Fix's invitation in the hope of returning the obligation at some future time . 
They ordered two bottles of port , to which the Frenchman did ample justice , whilst Fix observed him with close attention . 
They chatted about the journey , and Passepartout was especially merry at the idea that Fix was going to continue it with them . 
When the bottles were empty , however , he rose to go and tell his master of the change in the time of the sailing of the Carnatic . 
Fix caught him by the arm , and said , Wait a moment . 
What for , Mr. Fix ? I want to have a serious talk with you . 
A serious talk ! cried Passepartout , drinking up the little wine that was left in the bottom of his glass . 
Well , we'll talk about it to morrow I haven't time now . 
Stay ! What I have to say concerns your master . 
Passepartout , at this , looked attentively at his companion . 
Fix's face seemed to have a singular expression . 
Then I'm going to tell you everything Now that I know everything , my friend ! Ah ! that's very good . 
But go on , go on . 
First , though , let me tell you that those gentlemen have put themselves to a useless expense . 
It's clear that you don't know how large the sum is . 
Of course I do , returned Passepartout . 
Fifty five thousand ! answered Fix , pressing his companion's hand . 
What ! cried the Frenchman . 
Has Monsieur Fogg dared fifty five thousand pounds ! Well , there's all the more reason for not losing an instant , he continued , getting up hastily . 
Fix pushed Passepartout back in his chair , and resumed Fifty five thousand pounds and if I succeed , I get two thousand pounds . 
If you'll help me , I'll let you have five hundred of them . 
Help you ? cried Passepartout , whose eyes were standing wide open . 
Yes help me keep Mr. Fogg here for two or three days . 
They might as well waylay Mr. Fogg and put his money in their pockets ! That's just what we count on doing . 
It's a conspiracy , then , cried Passepartout , who became more and more excited as the liquor mounted in his head , for he drank without perceiving it . 
A real conspiracy ! And gentlemen , too . 
Bah ! Fix began to be puzzled . 
Members of the Reform Club ! continued Passepartout . 
Parbleu ! An agent of the members of the Reform Club , sent out here to interrupt my master's journey . 
But , though I found you out some time ago , I've taken good care to say nothing about it to Mr. Fogg . 
He knows nothing , then ? Nothing , replied Passepartout , again emptying his glass . 
The detective passed his hand across his forehead , hesitating before he spoke again . 
What should he do ? Passepartout's mistake seemed sincere , but it made his design more difficult . 
It was evident that the servant was not the master's accomplice , as Fix had been inclined to suspect . 
Well , said the detective to himself , as he is not an accomplice , he will help me . 
He had no time to lose Fogg must be detained at Hong Kong , so he resolved to make a clean breast of it . 
Listen to me , said Fix abruptly . 
I am not , as you think , an agent of the members of the Reform Club Bah ! retorted Passepartout , with an air of raillery . 
I am a police detective , sent out here by the London office . 
You , a detective ? I will prove it . 
Passepartout was speechless with astonishment when Fix displayed this document , the genuineness of which could not be doubted . 
Mr. Fogg's wager , resumed Fix , is only a pretext , of which you and the gentlemen of the Reform are dupes . 
He had a motive for securing your innocent complicity . 
On the th of last September a robbery of fifty five thousand pounds was committed at the Bank of England by a person whose description was fortunately secured . 
Here is his description it answers exactly to that of Mr. Phileas Fogg . 
What nonsense ! cried Passepartout , striking the table with his fist . 
My master is the most honourable of men ! How can you tell ? You know scarcely anything about him . 
You went into his service the day he came away and he came away on a foolish pretext , without trunks , and carrying a large amount in banknotes . 
And yet you are bold enough to assert that he is an honest man ! Yes , yes , repeated the poor fellow , mechanically . 
Well , what do you want of me ? said he , at last , with an effort . 
See here , replied Fix I have tracked Mr. Fogg to this place , but as yet I have failed to receive the warrant of arrest for which I sent to London . 
You must help me to keep him here in Hong Kong I ! But I I will share with you the two thousand pounds reward offered by the Bank of England . 
Never ! replied Passepartout , who tried to rise , but fell back , exhausted in mind and body . 
I come from a village where they don't eat that kind of bread ! You refuse ? I refuse . 
Consider that I've said nothing , said Fix and let us drink . 
Yes let us drink ! Passepartout felt himself yielding more and more to the effects of the liquor . 
Fix , seeing that he must , at all hazards , be separated from his master , wished to entirely overcome him . 
Some pipes full of opium lay upon the table . 
Fix slipped one into Passepartout's hand . 
At last ! said Fix , seeing Passepartout unconscious . 
Mr. Fogg absorbed himself throughout the evening in the perusal of The Times and Illustrated London News . 
Had he been capable of being astonished at anything , it would have been not to see his servant return at bedtime . 
But , knowing that the steamer was not to leave for Yokohama until the next morning , he did not disturb himself about the matter . 
It was then eight o'clock at half past nine , it being then high tide , the Carnatic would leave the harbour . 
Mr. Fogg and Aouda got into the palanquin , their luggage being brought after on a wheelbarrow , and half an hour later stepped upon the quay whence they were to embark . 
Mr. Fogg then learned that the Carnatic had sailed the evening before . 
At this moment a man who had been observing him attentively approached . 
But I have not the honour Pardon me I thought I should find your servant here . 
Do you know where he is , sir ? asked Aouda anxiously . 
What ! responded Fix , feigning surprise . 
Is he not with you ? No , said Aouda . 
He has not made his appearance since yesterday . 
Could he have gone on board the Carnatic without us ? Without you , madam ? answered the detective . 
Excuse me , did you intend to sail in the Carnatic ? Yes , sir . 
So did I , madam , and I am excessively disappointed . 
The Carnatic , its repairs being completed , left Hong Kong twelve hours before the stated time , without any notice being given and we must now wait a week for another steamer . 
As he said a week Fix felt his heart leap for joy . 
Fogg detained at Hong Kong for a week ! There would be time for the warrant to arrive , and fortune at last favoured the representative of the law . 
And , offering his arm to Aouda , he directed his steps toward the docks in search of some craft about to start . 
Fix , stupefied , followed it seemed as if he were attached to Mr. Fogg by an invisible thread . 
Chance , however , appeared really to have abandoned the man it had hitherto served so well . 
Fix began to hope again . 
Is your honour looking for a boat ? Have you a boat ready to sail ? Yes , your honour a pilot boat No. the best in the harbour . 
Does she go fast ? Between eight and nine knots the hour . 
Will you look at her ? Yes . 
Your honour will be satisfied with her . 
Is it for a sea excursion ? No for a voyage . 
I am sorry , said the sailor but it is impossible . 
I offer you a hundred pounds per day , and an additional reward of two hundred pounds if I reach Yokohama in time . 
Are you in earnest ? Very much so . 
The pilot walked away a little distance , and gazed out to sea , evidently struggling between the anxiety to gain a large sum and the fear of venturing so far . 
Fix was in mortal suspense . 
Mr. Fogg turned to Aouda and asked her , You would not be afraid , would you , madam ? Not with you , Mr. Fogg , was her answer . 
The pilot now returned , shuffling his hat in his hands . 
Well , pilot ? said Mr. Fogg . 
Besides , we could not reach Yokohama in time , for it is sixteen hundred and sixty miles from Hong Kong . 
Only sixteen hundred , said Mr. Fogg . 
But , added the pilot , it might be arranged another way . 
Fix ceased to breathe at all . 
How ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
By going to Nagasaki , at the extreme south of Japan , or even to Shanghai , which is only eight hundred miles from here . 
Pilot , said Mr. Fogg , I must take the American steamer at Yokohama , and not at Shanghai or Nagasaki . 
Why not ? returned the pilot . 
The San Francisco steamer does not start from Yokohama . 
It puts in at Yokohama and Nagasaki , but it starts from Shanghai . 
You are sure of that ? Perfectly . 
And when does the boat leave Shanghai ? On the th , at seven in the evening . 
And you could go In an hour as soon as provisions could be got aboard and the sails put up . 
Are you the master of the boat ? Yes John Bunsby , master of the Tankadere . 
In half an hour we shall go on board . 
But poor Passepartout ? urged Aouda , who was much disturbed by the servant's disappearance . 
I shall do all I can to find him , replied Phileas Fogg . 
While Fix , in a feverish , nervous state , repaired to the pilot boat , the others directed their course to the police station at Hong Kong . 
Phileas Fogg there gave Passepartout's description , and left a sum of money to be spent in the search for him . 
It was now three o'clock and pilot boat No. , with its crew on board , and its provisions stored away , was ready for departure . 
The Tankadere was a neat little craft of twenty tons , as gracefully built as if she were a racing yacht . 
Her shining copper sheathing , her galvanised iron work , her deck , white as ivory , betrayed the pride taken by John Bunsby in making her presentable . 
The crew of the Tankadere was composed of John Bunsby , the master , and four hardy mariners , who were familiar with the Chinese seas . 
Phileas Fogg and Aouda went on board , where they found Fix already installed . 
The accommodation was confined , but neat . 
I am sorry to have nothing better to offer you , said Mr. Fogg to Fix , who bowed without responding . 
The detective had a feeling akin to humiliation in profiting by the kindness of Mr. Fogg . 
It's certain , thought he , though rascal as he is , he is a polite one ! The sails and the English flag were hoisted at ten minutes past three . 
Mr. Fogg and Aouda , who were seated on deck , cast a last glance at the quay , in the hope of espying Passepartout . 
But the Frenchman did not appear , and , without doubt , was still lying under the stupefying influence of the opium . 
The Chinese seas are usually boisterous , subject to terrible gales of wind , and especially during the equinoxes and it was now early November . 
But John Bunsby believed in the Tankadere , which rode on the waves like a seagull and perhaps he was not wrong . 
Late in the day they passed through the capricious channels of Hong Kong , and the Tankadere , impelled by favourable winds , conducted herself admirably . 
I do not need , pilot , said Phileas Fogg , when they got into the open sea , to advise you to use all possible speed . 
Trust me , your honour . 
We are carrying all the sail the wind will let us . 
The poles would add nothing , and are only used when we are going into port . 
Its your trade , not mine , pilot , and I confide in you . 
Phileas Fogg , with body erect and legs wide apart , standing like a sailor , gazed without staggering at the swelling waters . 
Above her head rustled the white sails , which seemed like great white wings . 
The boat , carried forward by the wind , seemed to be flying in the air . 
The moon was entering her first quarter , and her insufficient light would soon die out in the mist on the horizon . 
Clouds were rising from the east , and already overcast a part of the heavens . 
Fix , seated in the bow , gave himself up to meditation . 
He kept apart from his fellow travellers , knowing Mr. Fogg's taciturn tastes besides , he did not quite like to talk to the man whose favours he had accepted . 
He was thinking , too , of the future . 
It seemed certain that Fogg would not stop at Yokohama , but would at once take the boat for San Francisco and the vast extent of America would ensure him impunity and safety . 
Fogg's plan appeared to him the simplest in the world . 
It was his duty , and he would fulfil it to the end . 
Phileas Fogg was also thinking of Passepartout , who had so strangely disappeared . 
They might then find him at Yokohama for , if the Carnatic was carrying him thither , it would be easy to ascertain if he had been on board . 
The Tankadere bore sail admirably , as she drew a great deal of water , and everything was prepared for high speed in case of a gale . 
Mr. Fogg and Aouda descended into the cabin at midnight , having been already preceded by Fix , who had lain down on one of the cots . 
The pilot and crew remained on deck all night . 
At sunrise the next day , which was th November , the boat had made more than one hundred miles . 
The log indicated a mean speed of between eight and nine miles . 
The Tankadere still carried all sail , and was accomplishing her greatest capacity of speed . 
If the wind held as it was , the chances would be in her favour . 
The breeze subsided a little towards noon , and set in from the south west . 
The pilot put up his poles , but took them down again within two hours , as the wind freshened up anew . 
To travel at this man's expense and live upon his provisions was not palatable to him . 
Still , he was obliged to eat , and so he ate . 
But , if I insist No , sir , repeated Mr. Fogg , in a tone which did not admit of a reply . 
This enters into my general expenses . 
Fix , as he bowed , had a stifled feeling , and , going forward , where he ensconced himself , did not open his mouth for the rest of the day . 
Meanwhile they were progressing famously , and John Bunsby was in high hope . 
He several times assured Mr. Fogg that they would reach Shanghai in time to which that gentleman responded that he counted upon it . 
The crew set to work in good earnest , inspired by the reward to be gained . 
There was not a sheet which was not tightened not a sail which was not vigorously hoisted not a lurch could be charged to the man at the helm . 
They worked as desperately as if they were contesting in a Royal yacht regatta . 
At daybreak the wind began to blow hard again , and the heavens seemed to predict a gale . 
The barometer announced a speedy change , the mercury rising and falling capriciously the sea also , in the south east , raised long surges which indicated a tempest . 
The sun had set the evening before in a red mist , in the midst of the phosphorescent scintillations of the ocean . 
John Bunsby long examined the threatening aspect of the heavens , muttering indistinctly between his teeth . 
At last he said in a low voice to Mr. Fogg , Shall I speak out to your honour ? Of course . 
Well , we are going to have a squall . 
Is the wind north or south ? asked Mr. Fogg quietly . 
Look ! a typhoon is coming up . 
Glad it's a typhoon from the south , for it will carry us forward . 
Oh , if you take it that way , said John Bunsby , I've nothing more to say . 
John Bunsby's suspicions were confirmed . 
The pilot took his precautions in advance . 
He reefed all sail , the pole masts were dispensed with all hands went forward to the bows . 
A single triangular sail , of strong canvas , was hoisted as a storm jib , so as to hold the wind from behind . 
Neither Mr. Fogg , Fix , nor Aouda consented to leave the deck . 
The storm of rain and wind descended upon them towards eight o'clock . 
With but its bit of sail , the Tankadere was lifted like a feather by a wind , an idea of whose violence can scarcely be given . 
To compare her speed to four times that of a locomotive going on full steam would be below the truth . 
The boat scudded thus northward during the whole day , borne on by monstrous waves , preserving always , fortunately , a speed equal to theirs . 
Twenty times she seemed almost to be submerged by these mountains of water which rose behind her but the adroit management of the pilot saved her . 
The passengers were often bathed in spray , but they submitted to it philosophically . 
Fix cursed it , no doubt but Aouda , with her eyes fastened upon her protector , whose coolness amazed her , showed herself worthy of him , and bravely weathered the storm . 
As for Phileas Fogg , it seemed just as if the typhoon were a part of his programme . 
Up to this time the Tankadere had always held her course to the north but towards evening the wind , veering three quarters , bore down from the north west . 
The boat , now lying in the trough of the waves , shook and rolled terribly the sea struck her with fearful violence . 
At night the tempest increased in violence . 
John Bunsby saw the approach of darkness and the rising of the storm with dark misgivings . 
He thought awhile , and then asked his crew if it was not time to slacken speed . 
After a consultation he approached Mr. Fogg , and said , I think , your honour , that we should do well to make for one of the ports on the coast . 
Ah ! said the pilot . 
But which one ? I know of but one , returned Mr. Fogg tranquilly . 
The pilot , at first , did not seem to comprehend he could scarcely realise so much determination and tenacity . 
Then he cried , Well yes ! Your honour is right . 
To Shanghai ! So the Tankadere kept steadily on her northward track . 
The night was really terrible it would be a miracle if the craft did not founder . 
Twice it could have been all over with her if the crew had not been constantly on the watch . 
Aouda was exhausted , but did not utter a complaint . 
More than once Mr. Fogg rushed to protect her from the violence of the waves . 
The tempest still raged with undiminished fury but the wind now returned to the south east . 
From time to time the coast was visible through the broken mist , but no vessel was in sight . 
The Tankadere was alone upon the sea . 
There were some signs of a calm at noon , and these became more distinct as the sun descended toward the horizon . 
The tempest had been as brief as terrific . 
The passengers , thoroughly exhausted , could now eat a little , and take some repose . 
The night was comparatively quiet . 
Some of the sails were again hoisted , and the speed of the boat was very good . 
The next morning at dawn they espied the coast , and John Bunsby was able to assert that they were not one hundred miles from Shanghai . 
A hundred miles , and only one day to traverse them ! That very evening Mr. Fogg was due at Shanghai , if he did not wish to miss the steamer to Yokohama . 
Had there been no storm , during which several hours were lost , they would be at this moment within thirty miles of their destination . 
The wind grew decidedly calmer , and happily the sea fell with it . 
All sails were now hoisted , and at noon the Tankadere was within forty five miles of Shanghai . 
There remained yet six hours in which to accomplish that distance . 
All on board feared that it could not be done , and every one Phileas Fogg , no doubt , excepted felt his heart beat with impatience . 
Shanghai itself is situated at least twelve miles up the stream . 
At seven they were still three miles from Shanghai . 
The pilot swore an angry oath the reward of two hundred pounds was evidently on the point of escaping him . 
He looked at Mr. Fogg . 
Mr. Fogg was perfectly tranquil and yet his whole fortune was at this moment at stake . 
At this moment , also , a long black funnel , crowned with wreaths of smoke , appeared on the edge of the waters . 
It was the American steamer , leaving for Yokohama at the appointed time . 
Confound her ! cried John Bunsby , pushing back the rudder with a desperate jerk . 
Signal her ! said Phileas Fogg quietly . 
A small brass cannon stood on the forward deck of the Tankadere , for making signals in the fogs . 
Fire ! said Mr. Fogg . 
And the booming of the little cannon resounded in the air . 
She carried a large cargo and a well filled cabin of passengers . 
Two state rooms in the rear were , however , unoccupied those which had been engaged by Phileas Fogg . 
Three hours later , pursued even in his dreams by a fixed idea , the poor fellow awoke , and struggled against the stupefying influence of the narcotic . 
The thought of a duty unfulfilled shook off his torpor , and he hurried from the abode of drunkenness . 
Passepartout had but few steps to go and , rushing upon the plank , he crossed it , and fell unconscious on the deck , just as the Carnatic was moving off . 
Thus he found himself the next morning on the deck of the Carnatic , and eagerly inhaling the exhilarating sea breeze . 
The pure air sobered him . 
He began to collect his sense , which he found a difficult task but at last he recalled the events of the evening before , Fix's revelation , and the opium house . 
A detective on the track of Mr. Fogg , accused of robbing the Bank of England ! Pshaw ! Mr. Fogg is no more a robber than I am a murderer . 
Should he divulge Fix's real errand to his master ? Would it do to tell the part the detective was playing . 
The first thing to do was to find Mr. Fogg , and apologise for his singular behaviour . 
Passepartout got up and proceeded , as well as he could with the rolling of the steamer , to the after deck . 
He saw no one who resembled either his master or Aouda . 
Good ! muttered he Aouda has not got up yet , and Mr. Fogg has probably found some partners at whist . 
He descended to the saloon . 
Mr. Fogg was not there . 
Passepartout had only , however , to ask the purser the number of his master's state room . 
The purser replied that he did not know any passenger by the name of Fogg . 
I beg your pardon , said Passepartout persistently . 
He is a tall gentleman , quiet , and not very talkative , and has with him a young lady There is no young lady on board , interrupted the purser . 
Here is a list of the passengers you may see for yourself . 
Passepartout scanned the list , but his master's name was not upon it . 
All at once an idea struck him . 
Ah ! am I on the Carnatic ? Yes . 
On the way to Yokohama ? Certainly . 
Passepartout had for an instant feared that he was on the wrong boat but , though he was really on the Carnatic , his master was not there . 
He fell thunderstruck on a seat . 
He saw it all now . 
He remembered that the time of sailing had been changed , that he should have informed his master of that fact , and that he had not done so . 
It was his fault , then , that Mr. Fogg and Aouda had missed the steamer . 
It was certainly not an enviable one . 
His passage had fortunately been paid for in advance and he had five or six days in which to decide upon his future course . 
He fell to at meals with an appetite , and ate for Mr. Fogg , Aouda , and himself . 
He helped himself as generously as if Japan were a desert , where nothing to eat was to be looked for . 
At dawn on the th the Carnatic entered the port of Yokohama . 
The Carnatic anchored at the quay near the custom house , in the midst of a crowd of ships bearing the flags of all nations . 
Passepartout went timidly ashore on this so curious territory of the Sons of the Sun . 
He had nothing better to do than , taking chance for his guide , to wander aimlessly through the streets of Yokohama . 
He found himself at first in a thoroughly European quarter , the houses having low fronts , and being adorned with verandas , beneath which he caught glimpses of neat peristyles . 
This quarter occupied , with its streets , squares , docks , and warehouses , all the space between the promontory of the Treaty and the river . 
Here , as at Hong Kong and Calcutta , were mixed crowds of all races Americans and English , Chinamen and Dutchmen , mostly merchants ready to buy or sell anything . 
The Frenchman felt himself as much alone among them as if he had dropped down in the midst of Hottentots . 
He had , at least , one resource to call on the French and English consuls at Yokohama for assistance . 
As chance did not favour him in the European quarter , he penetrated that inhabited by the native Japanese , determined , if necessary , to push on to Yeddo . 
The Japanese quarter of Yokohama is called Benten , after the goddess of the sea , who is worshipped on the islands round about . 
The streets were crowded with people . 
He went on till he found himself in the fields , in the midst of vast rice plantations . 
As he was strolling along , Passepartout espied some violets among the shrubs . 
Good ! said he I'll have some supper . 
But , on smelling them , he found that they were odourless . 
No chance there , thought he . 
But he found it necessary to keep up a stout heart , and to postpone the meal he craved till the following morning . 
Then he came to the harbour , which was lit up by the resin torches of the fishermen , who were fishing from their boats . 
He might , indeed , sell his watch but he would have starved first . 
Now or never he must use the strong , if not melodious voice which nature had bestowed upon him . 
Passepartout therefore decided to wait several hours and , as he was sauntering along , it occurred to him that he would seem rather too well dressed for a wandering artist . 
The idea struck him to change his garments for clothes more in harmony with his project by which he might also get a little money to satisfy the immediate cravings of hunger . 
The resolution taken , it remained to carry it out . 
It was only after a long search that Passepartout discovered a native dealer in old clothes , to whom he applied for an exchange . 
A few small pieces of silver , moreover , jingled in his pocket . 
Now , thought he , when he had eaten heartily , I mustn't lose my head . 
I can't sell this costume again for one still more Japanese . 
I must consider how to leave this country of the Sun , of which I shall not retain the most delightful of memories , as quickly as possible . 
It occurred to him to visit the steamers which were about to leave for America . 
He would offer himself as a cook or servant , in payment of his passage and meals . 
Once at San Francisco , he would find some means of going on . 
The difficulty was , how to traverse the four thousand seven hundred miles of the Pacific which lay between Japan and the New World . 
Passepartout was not the man to let an idea go begging , and directed his steps towards the docks . 
But , as he approached them , his project , which at first had seemed so simple , began to grow more and more formidable to his mind . 
This was the Honourable William Batulcar's establishment . 
Passepartout entered and asked for Mr. Batulcar , who straightway appeared in person . 
What do you want ? said he to Passepartout , whom he at first took for a native . 
Would you like a servant , sir ? asked Passepartout . 
A servant ! cried Mr. Batulcar , caressing the thick grey beard which hung from his chin . 
So I can be of no use to you ? None . 
The devil ! I should so like to cross the Pacific with you ! Ah ! said the Honourable Mr. Batulcar . 
You are no more a Japanese than I am a monkey ! Who are you dressed up in that way ? A man dresses as he can . 
You are a Frenchman , aren't you ? Yes a Parisian of Paris . 
Well , if I can't take you as a servant , I can as a clown . 
You see , my friend , in France they exhibit foreign clowns , and in foreign parts French clowns . 
Ah ! You are pretty strong , eh ? Especially after a good meal . 
And you can sing ? Yes , returned Passepartout , who had formerly been wont to sing in the streets . 
Well , that's enough , said the Honourable William Batulcar . 
The engagement was concluded there and then . 
Passepartout had at last found something to do . 
He was engaged to act in the celebrated Japanese troupe . 
It was not a very dignified position , but within a week he would be on his way to San Francisco . 
The performance , so noisily announced by the Honourable Mr. Batulcar , was to commence at three o'clock , and soon the deafening instruments of a Japanese orchestra resounded at the door . 
This great attraction was to close the performance . 
The musicians took up a position inside , and were vigorously performing on their gongs , tam tams , flutes , bones , tambourines , and immense drums . 
The performance was much like all acrobatic displays but it must be confessed that the Japanese are the first equilibrists in the world . 
It is useless to describe the astonishing performances of the acrobats and gymnasts . 
The turning on ladders , poles , balls , barrels , c . 
, was executed with wonderful precision . 
But the principal attraction was the exhibition of the Long Noses , a show to which Europe is as yet a stranger . 
The Long Noses form a peculiar company , under the direct patronage of the god Tingou . 
It was upon these appendages , fixed tightly on their real noses , that they performed their gymnastic exercises . 
As a last scene , a human pyramid had been announced , in which fifty Long Noses were to represent the Car of Juggernaut . 
But , instead of forming a pyramid by mounting each other's shoulders , the artists were to group themselves on top of the noses . 
But he cheered up when he thought that this nose was winning him something to eat . 
He went upon the stage , and took his place beside the rest who were to compose the base of the Car of Juggernaut . 
They all stretched themselves on the floor , their noses pointing to the ceiling . 
He demanded damages for the breakage of the pyramid and Phileas Fogg appeased him by giving him a handful of banknotes . 
Chapter XXIV DURING WHICH MR . 
FOGG AND PARTY CROSS THE PACIFIC OCEAN What happened when the pilot boat came in sight of Shanghai will be easily guessed . 
They reached their destination on the morning of the th of November . 
The San Francisco steamer was announced to leave that very evening , and it became necessary to find Passepartout , if possible , without delay . 
Mr. Fogg applied in vain to the French and English consuls , and , after wandering through the streets a long time , began to despair of finding his missing servant . 
Chance , or perhaps a kind of presentiment , at last led him into the Honourable Mr. Batulcar's theatre . 
He certainly would not have recognised Passepartout in the eccentric mountebank's costume but the latter , lying on his back , perceived his master in the gallery . 
He could not help starting , which so changed the position of his nose as to bring the pyramid pell mell upon the stage . 
All this Passepartout learned from Aouda , who recounted to him what had taken place on the voyage from Hong Kong to Shanghai on the Tankadere , in company with one Mr. Fix . 
Passepartout did not change countenance on hearing this name . 
Mr. Fogg heard this narrative coldly , without a word and then furnished his man with funds necessary to obtain clothing more in harmony with his position . 
Within an hour the Frenchman had cut off his nose and parted with his wings , and retained nothing about him which recalled the sectary of the god Tingou . 
The steamer which was about to depart from Yokohama to San Francisco belonged to the Pacific Mail Steamship Company , and was named the General Grant . 
She was a large paddle wheel steamer of two thousand five hundred tons well equipped and very fast . 
The General Grant was rigged with three masts , giving a large capacity for sails , and thus materially aiding the steam power . 
By making twelve miles an hour , she would cross the ocean in twenty one days . 
Nothing of moment happened on the voyage the steamer , sustained on its large paddles , rolled but little , and the Pacific almost justified its name . 
Mr. Fogg was as calm and taciturn as ever . 
Aouda took the keenest interest in his plans , and became impatient at any incident which seemed likely to retard his journey . 
On the ninth day after leaving Yokohama , Phileas Fogg had traversed exactly one half of the terrestrial globe . 
The General Grant passed , on the rd of November , the one hundred and eightieth meridian , and was at the very antipodes of London . 
Mr. Fogg had , it is true , exhausted fifty two of the eighty days in which he was to complete the tour , and there were only twenty eight left . 
Now , on this day , though he had not changed the hands , he found that his watch exactly agreed with the ship's chronometers . 
But if Fix had been able to explain this purely physical effect , Passepartout would not have admitted , even if he had comprehended it . 
Moreover , if the detective had been on board at that moment , Passepartout would have joined issue with him on a quite different subject , and in an entirely different manner . 
Where was Fix at that moment ? He was actually on board the General Grant . 
It had followed him from Bombay , and had come by the Carnatic , on which steamer he himself was supposed to be . 
Fix's disappointment may be imagined when he reflected that the warrant was now useless . 
The rogue evidently intends to return to his own country , thinking he has thrown the police off his track . 
Good ! I will follow him across the Atlantic . 
Yet , after all , the Bank is rich ! His course decided on , he went on board the General Grant , and was there when Mr. Fogg and Aouda arrived . 
To his utter amazement , he recognised Passepartout , despite his theatrical disguise . 
He quickly concealed himself in his cabin , to avoid an awkward explanation , and hoped thanks to the number of passengers to remain unperceived by Mr. Fogg's servant . 
On that very day , however , he met Passepartout face to face on the forward deck . 
When Passepartout had finished , he found himself relieved and comforted . 
Fix got up in a somewhat rumpled condition , and , looking at his adversary , coldly said , Have you done ? For this time yes . 
Then let me have a word with you . 
But I In your master's interests . 
Passepartout seemed to be vanquished by Fix's coolness , for he quietly followed him , and they sat down aside from the rest of the passengers . 
You have given me a thrashing , said Fix . 
Good , I expected it . 
Now , listen to me . 
Up to this time I have been Mr. Fogg's adversary . 
I am now in his game . 
Aha ! cried Passepartout you are convinced he is an honest man ? No , replied Fix coldly , I think him a rascal . 
Sh ! don't budge , and let me speak . 
As long as Mr. Fogg was on English ground , it was for my interest to detain him there until my warrant of arrest arrived . 
I did everything I could to keep him back . 
I sent the Bombay priests after him , I got you intoxicated at Hong Kong , I separated you from him , and I made him miss the Yokohama steamer . 
Passepartout listened , with closed fists . 
Now , resumed Fix , Mr. Fogg seems to be going back to England . 
Well , I will follow him there . 
But hereafter I will do as much to keep obstacles out of his way as I have done up to this time to put them in his path . 
I've changed my game , you see , and simply because it was for my interest to change it . 
Your interest is the same as mine for it is only in England that you will ascertain whether you are in the service of a criminal or an honest man . 
Passepartout listened very attentively to Fix , and was convinced that he spoke with entire good faith . 
Are we friends ? asked the detective . 
Friends ? no , replied Passepartout but allies , perhaps . 
At the least sign of treason , however , I'll twist your neck for you . 
Agreed , said the detective quietly . 
Eleven days later , on the rd of December , the General Grant entered the bay of the Golden Gate , and reached San Francisco . 
Mr. Fogg had neither gained nor lost a single day . 
These quays , rising and falling with the tide , thus facilitate the loading and unloading of vessels . 
There were also heaped up the products of a commerce which extends to Mexico , Chili , Peru , Brazil , Europe , Asia , and all the Pacific islands . 
Mr. Fogg , on reaching shore , proceeded to find out at what hour the first train left for New York , and learned that this was at six o'clock p . 
he had , therefore , an entire day to spend in the Californian capital . 
Taking a carriage at a charge of three dollars , he and Aouda entered it , while Passepartout mounted the box beside the driver , and they set out for the International Hotel . 
Passepartout was surprised at all he saw . 
Sombreros and red shirts and plumed Indians were rarely to be seen but there were silk hats and black coats everywhere worn by a multitude of nervously active , gentlemanly looking men . 
When Passepartout reached the International Hotel , it did not seem to him as if he had left England at all . 
Payment was made only for the ale , porter , or sherry which was drunk . 
This seemed very American to Passepartout . 
The hotel refreshment rooms were comfortable , and Mr. Fogg and Aouda , installing themselves at a table , were abundantly served on diminutive plates by negroes of darkest hue . 
After breakfast , Mr. Fogg , accompanied by Aouda , started for the English consulate to have his passport visaed . 
He had been listening to stories of attacks upon the trains by the Sioux and Pawnees . 
Mr. Fogg thought it a useless precaution , but told him to do as he thought best , and went on to the consulate . 
He had not proceeded two hundred steps , however , when , by the greatest chance in the world , he met Fix . 
The detective seemed wholly taken by surprise . 
Men were going about carrying large posters , and flags and streamers were floating in the wind while loud cries were heard on every hand . 
There may be danger in it . 
Yes , returned Mr. Fogg and blows , even if they are political are still blows . 
For what purpose was this meeting ? What was the occasion of this excited assemblage ? Phileas Fogg could not imagine . 
Was it to nominate some high official a governor or member of Congress ? It was not improbable , so agitated was the multitude before them . 
Just at this moment there was an unusual stir in the human mass . 
All the hands were raised in the air . 
Some , tightly closed , seemed to disappear suddenly in the midst of the cries an energetic way , no doubt , of casting a vote . 
The crowd swayed back , the banners and flags wavered , disappeared an instant , then reappeared in tatters . 
The undulations of the human surge reached the steps , while all the heads floundered on the surface like a sea agitated by a squall . 
Many of the black hats disappeared , and the greater part of the crowd seemed to have diminished in height . 
It is evidently a meeting , said Fix , and its object must be an exciting one . 
I should not wonder if it were about the Alabama , despite the fact that that question is settled . 
Perhaps , replied Mr. Fogg , simply . 
At least , there are two champions in presence of each other , the Honourable Mr. Camerfield and the Honourable Mr. Mandiboy . 
Aouda , leaning upon Mr. Fogg's arm , observed the tumultuous scene with surprise , while Fix asked a man near him what the cause of it all was . 
Thumps were exchanged from the tops of the carriages and omnibuses which had been blocked up in the crowd . 
One of the parties had evidently been repulsed but the mere lookers on could not tell whether Mandiboy or Camerfield had gained the upper hand . 
It would be prudent for us to retire , said Fix , who was anxious that Mr. Fogg should not receive any injury , at least until they got back to London . 
If there is any question about England in all this , and we were recognised , I fear it would go hard with us . 
An English subject began Mr. Fogg . 
Mr. Fogg , Aouda , and Fix found themselves between two fires it was too late to escape . 
The torrent of men , armed with loaded canes and sticks , was irresistible . 
An enormous bruise immediately made its appearance under the detective's silk hat , which was completely smashed in . 
Yankee ! exclaimed Mr. Fogg , darting a contemptuous look at the ruffian . 
Englishman ! returned the other . 
We will meet again ! When you please . 
What is your name ? Phileas Fogg . 
And yours ? Colonel Stamp Proctor . 
The human tide now swept by , after overturning Fix , who speedily got upon his feet again , though with tattered clothes . 
Happily , he was not seriously hurt . 
His travelling overcoat was divided into two unequal parts , and his trousers resembled those of certain Indians , which fit less compactly than they are easy to put on . 
Aouda had escaped unharmed , and Fix alone bore marks of the fray in his black and blue bruise . 
Thanks , said Mr. Fogg to the detective , as soon as they were out of the crowd . 
No thanks are necessary , replied . 
Fix but let us go . 
Where ? To a tailor's . 
Such a visit was , indeed , opportune . 
The clothing of both Mr. Fogg and Fix was in rags , as if they had themselves been actively engaged in the contest between Camerfield and Mandiboy . 
An hour after , they were once more suitably attired , and with Aouda returned to the International Hotel . 
Passepartout was waiting for his master , armed with half a dozen six barrelled revolvers . 
When he perceived Fix , he knit his brows but Aouda having , in a few words , told him of their adventure , his countenance resumed its placid expression . 
Fix evidently was no longer an enemy , but an ally he was faithfully keeping his word . 
Dinner over , the coach which was to convey the passengers and their luggage to the station drew up to the door . 
It would not be right for an Englishman to permit himself to be treated in that way , without retaliating . 
The detective smiled , but did not reply . 
It was clear that Mr. Fogg was one of those Englishmen who , while they do not tolerate duelling at home , fight abroad when their honour is attacked . 
At a quarter before six the travellers reached the station , and found the train ready to depart . 
But I thought there was a great deal of disturbance in the streets . 
It was only a meeting assembled for an election . 
The election of a general in chief , no doubt ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
No , sir of a justice of the peace . 
Phileas Fogg got into the train , which started off at full speed . 
The Pacific Railroad is , however , really divided into two distinct lines the Central Pacific , between San Francisco and Ogden , and the Union Pacific , between Ogden and Omaha . 
Five main lines connect Omaha with New York . 
New York and San Francisco are thus united by an uninterrupted metal ribbon , which measures no less than three thousand seven hundred and eighty six miles . 
The journey from New York to San Francisco consumed , formerly , under the most favourable conditions , at least six months . 
It is now accomplished in seven days . 
President Lincoln himself fixed the end of the line at Omaha , in Nebraska . 
The work was at once commenced , and pursued with true American energy nor did the rapidity with which it went on injuriously affect its good execution . 
The road grew , on the prairies , a mile and a half a day . 
The Pacific Railroad is joined by several branches in Iowa , Kansas , Colorado , and Oregon . 
The car which he occupied was a sort of long omnibus on eight wheels , and with no compartments in the interior . 
It was supplied with two rows of seats , perpendicular to the direction of the train on either side of an aisle which conducted to the front and rear platforms . 
These platforms were found throughout the train , and the passengers were able to pass from one end of the train to the other . 
It was supplied with saloon cars , balcony cars , restaurants , and smoking cars theatre cars alone were wanting , and they will have these some day . 
Book and news dealers , sellers of edibles , drinkables , and cigars , who seemed to have plenty of customers , were continually circulating in the aisles . 
The train left Oakland station at six o'clock . 
It was already night , cold and cheerless , the heavens being overcast with clouds which seemed to threaten snow . 
There was but little conversation in the car , and soon many of the passengers were overcome with sleep . 
Passepartout found himself beside the detective but he did not talk to him . 
After recent events , their relations with each other had grown somewhat cold there could no longer be mutual sympathy or intimacy between them . 
Fix's manner had not changed but Passepartout was very reserved , and ready to strangle his former friend on the slightest provocation . 
At eight o'clock a steward entered the car and announced that the time for going to bed had arrived and in a few minutes the car was transformed into a dormitory . 
The sheets were clean and the pillows soft . 
It only remained to go to bed and sleep which everybody did while the train sped on across the State of California . 
The country between San Francisco and Sacramento is not very hilly . 
The Central Pacific , taking Sacramento for its starting point , extends eastward to meet the road from Omaha . 
The line from San Francisco to Sacramento runs in a north easterly direction , along the American River , which empties into San Pablo Bay . 
The train , on leaving Sacramento , and passing the junction , Roclin , Auburn , and Colfax , entered the range of the Sierra Nevada . 
There were few or no bridges or tunnels on the route . 
The railway turned around the sides of the mountains , and did not attempt to violate nature by taking the shortest cut from one point to another . 
Sometimes a great herd of buffaloes , massing together in the distance , seemed like a moveable dam . 
The locomotive is then forced to stop and wait till the road is once more clear . 
This happened , indeed , to the train in which Mr. Fogg was travelling . 
About twelve o'clock a troop of ten or twelve thousand head of buffalo encumbered the track . 
The locomotive , slackening its speed , tried to clear the way with its cow catcher but the mass of animals was too great . 
The buffaloes marched along with a tranquil gait , uttering now and then deafening bellowings . 
Passepartout was furious at the delay they occasioned , and longed to discharge his arsenal of revolvers upon them . 
What a country ! cried he . 
The best course was to wait patiently , and regain the lost time by greater speed when the obstacle was removed . 
The procession of buffaloes lasted three full hours , and it was night before the track was clear . 
The last ranks of the herd were now passing over the rails , while the first had already disappeared below the southern horizon . 
Passepartout , about nine o'clock , went out upon the platform to take the air . 
The weather was cold , the heavens grey , but it was not snowing . 
He might have been taken for a clergyman . 
He went from one end of the train to the other , and affixed to the door of each car a notice written in manuscript . 
I'll go , said Passepartout to himself . 
He knew nothing of Mormonism except the custom of polygamy , which is its foundation . 
The news quickly spread through the train , which contained about one hundred passengers , thirty of whom , at most , attracted by the notice , ensconced themselves in car No. . 
Passepartout took one of the front seats . 
Neither Mr. Fogg nor Fix cared to attend . 
Who dares to say the contrary ? No one ventured to gainsay the missionary , whose excited tone contrasted curiously with his naturally calm visage . 
No doubt his anger arose from the hardships to which the Mormons were actually subjected . 
The government had just succeeded , with some difficulty , in reducing these independent fanatics to its rule . 
It had made itself master of Utah , and subjected that territory to the laws of the Union , after imprisoning Brigham Young on a charge of rebellion and polygamy . 
The disciples of the prophet had since redoubled their efforts , and resisted , by words at least , the authority of Congress . 
Elder Hitch , as is seen , was trying to make proselytes on the very railway trains . 
The Elder's story became somewhat wearisome , and his audience grew gradually less , until it was reduced to twenty passengers . 
Ten hearers only were now left , among them honest Passepartout , who was listening with all his ears . 
During the lecture the train had been making good progress , and towards half past twelve it reached the northwest border of the Great Salt Lake . 
Thence the passengers could observe the vast extent of this interior sea , which is also called the Dead Sea , and into which flows an American Jordan . 
The Salt Lake , seventy miles long and thirty five wide , is situated three miles eight hundred feet above the sea . 
Fishes are , of course , unable to live in it , and those which descend through the Jordan , the Weber , and other streams soon perish . 
Now the ground was covered with a thin powdering of snow . 
The founder of the City of the Saints could not escape from the taste for symmetry which distinguishes the Anglo Saxons . 
In this strange country , where the people are certainly not up to the level of their institutions , everything is done squarely cities , houses , and follies . 
The travellers , then , were promenading , at three o'clock , about the streets of the town built between the banks of the Jordan and the spurs of the Wahsatch Range . 
A clay and pebble wall , built in , surrounded the town and in the principal street were the market and several hotels adorned with pavilions . 
The place did not seem thickly populated . 
The streets were almost deserted , except in the vicinity of the temple , which they only reached after having traversed several quarters surrounded by palisades . 
There were many women , which was easily accounted for by the peculiar institution of the Mormons but it must not be supposed that all the Mormons are polygamists . 
These poor creatures seemed to be neither well off nor happy . 
Some the more well to do , no doubt wore short , open , black silk dresses , under a hood or modest shawl others were habited in Indian fashion . 
Passepartout could not behold without a certain fright these women , charged , in groups , with conferring happiness on a single Mormon . 
His common sense pitied , above all , the husband . 
He felt decidedly repelled from such a vocation , and he imagined perhaps he was mistaken that the fair ones of Salt Lake City cast rather alarming glances on his person . 
Happily , his stay there was but brief . 
At four the party found themselves again at the station , took their places in the train , and the whistle sounded for starting . 
Just at the moment , however , that the locomotive wheels began to move , cries of Stop ! stop ! were heard . 
Trains , like time and tide , stop for no one . 
The gentleman who uttered the cries was evidently a belated Mormon . 
He was breathless with running . 
Happily for him , the station had neither gates nor barriers . 
He rushed along the track , jumped on the rear platform of the train , and fell , exhausted , into one of the seats . 
Passepartout , who had been anxiously watching this amateur gymnast , approached him with lively interest , and learned that he had taken flight after an unpleasant domestic scene . 
From this point it took an easterly direction towards the jagged Wahsatch Mountains . 
But the engineers , instead of violating nature , avoided its difficulties by winding around , instead of penetrating the rocks . 
One tunnel only , fourteen thousand feet in length , was pierced in order to arrive at the great basin . 
The track up to this time had reached its highest elevation at the Great Salt Lake . 
From this point it described a long curve , descending towards Bitter Creek Valley , to rise again to the dividing ridge of the waters between the Atlantic and the Pacific . 
There were many creeks in this mountainous region , and it was necessary to cross Muddy Creek , Green Creek , and others , upon culverts . 
At ten o'clock at night the train stopped at Fort Bridger station , and twenty minutes later entered Wyoming Territory , following the valley of Bitter Creek throughout . 
The next day , th December , they stopped for a quarter of an hour at Green River station . 
Snow had fallen abundantly during the night , but , being mixed with rain , it had half melted , and did not interrupt their progress . 
The bad weather , however , annoyed Passepartout for the accumulation of snow , by blocking the wheels of the cars , would certainly have been fatal to Mr. Fogg's tour . 
What an idea ! he said to himself . 
Not wishing to be recognised , the young woman drew back from the window , feeling much alarm at her discovery . 
She was attached to the man who , however coldly , gave her daily evidences of the most absolute devotion . 
Her heart sank within her when she recognised the man whom Mr. Fogg desired , sooner or later , to call to account for his conduct . 
Aouda seized a moment when Mr. Fogg was asleep to tell Fix and Passepartout whom she had seen . 
That Proctor on this train ! cried Fix . 
Well , reassure yourself , madam before he settles with Mr. Fogg he has got to deal with me ! It seems to me that I was the more insulted of the two . 
And , besides , added Passepartout , I'll take charge of him , colonel as he is . 
Mr. Fix , resumed Aouda , Mr. Fogg will allow no one to avenge him . 
He said that he would come back to America to find this man . 
Should he perceive Colonel Proctor , we could not prevent a collision which might have terrible results . 
He must not see him . 
You are right , madam , replied Fix a meeting between them might ruin all . 
Whether he were victorious or beaten , Mr. Fogg would be delayed , and And , added Passepartout , that would play the game of the gentlemen of the Reform Club . 
In four days we shall be in New York . 
Well , if my master does not leave this car during those four days , we may hope that chance will not bring him face to face with this confounded American . 
We must , if possible , prevent his stirring out of it . 
Mr. Fogg had just woke up , and was looking out of the window . 
Yes , replied Mr. Fogg but they pass . 
You were in the habit of playing whist , resumed Fix , on the steamers . 
Yes but it would be difficult to do so here . 
I have neither cards nor partners . 
Oh , but we can easily buy some cards , for they are sold on all the American trains . 
And as for partners , if madam plays Certainly , sir , Aouda quickly replied I understand whist . 
It is part of an English education . 
I myself have some pretensions to playing a good game . 
Well , here are three of us , and a dummy As you please , sir , replied Phileas Fogg , heartily glad to resume his favourite pastime even on the railway . 
Passepartout was dispatched in search of the steward , and soon returned with two packs of cards , some pins , counters , and a shelf covered with cloth . 
Aouda understood whist sufficiently well , and even received some compliments on her playing from Mr. Fogg . 
As for the detective , he was simply an adept , and worthy of being matched against his present opponent . 
Now , thought Passepartout , we've got him . 
On the declivity of the Atlantic basin the first streams , branches of the North Platte River , already appeared . 
The whole northern and eastern horizon was bounded by the immense semi circular curtain which is formed by the southern portion of the Rocky Mountains , the highest being Laramie Peak . 
Between this and the railway extended vast plains , plentifully irrigated . 
On the right rose the lower spurs of the mountainous mass which extends southward to the sources of the Arkansas River , one of the great tributaries of the Missouri . 
At half past twelve the travellers caught sight for an instant of Fort Halleck , which commands that section and in a few more hours the Rocky Mountains were crossed . 
There was reason to hope , then , that no accident would mark the journey through this difficult country . 
The snow had ceased falling , and the air became crisp and cold . 
Large birds , frightened by the locomotive , rose and flew off in the distance . 
No wild beast appeared on the plain . 
It was a desert in its vast nakedness . 
After a comfortable breakfast , served in the car , Mr. Fogg and his partners had just resumed whist , when a violent whistling was heard , and the train stopped . 
Passepartout put his head out of the door , but saw nothing to cause the delay no station was in view . 
Aouda and Fix feared that Mr. Fogg might take it into his head to get out but that gentleman contented himself with saying to his servant , See what is the matter . 
Passepartout rushed out of the car . 
Thirty or forty passengers had already descended , amongst them Colonel Stamp Proctor . 
The train had stopped before a red signal which blocked the way . 
The engineer and conductor were talking excitedly with a signal man , whom the station master at Medicine Bow , the next stopping place , had sent on before . 
The passengers drew around and took part in the discussion , in which Colonel Proctor , with his insolent manner , was conspicuous . 
Passepartout , joining the group , heard the signal man say , No ! you can't pass . 
The bridge at Medicine Bow is shaky , and would not bear the weight of the train . 
This was a suspension bridge thrown over some rapids , about a mile from the place where they now were . 
According to the signal man , it was in a ruinous condition , several of the iron wires being broken and it was impossible to risk the passage . 
He did not in any way exaggerate the condition of the bridge . 
It may be taken for granted that , rash as the Americans usually are , when they are prudent there is good reason for it . 
Passepartout , not daring to apprise his master of what he heard , listened with set teeth , immovable as a statue . 
Six hours ! cried Passepartout . 
Certainly , returned the conductor , besides , it will take us as long as that to reach Medicine Bow on foot . 
But it is only a mile from here , said one of the passengers . 
Yes , but it's on the other side of the river . 
And can't we cross that in a boat ? asked the colonel . 
The creek is swelled by the rains . 
It is a rapid , and we shall have to make a circuit of ten miles to the north to find a ford . 
The colonel launched a volley of oaths , denouncing the railway company and the conductor and Passepartout , who was furious , was not disinclined to make common cause with him . 
Here was an obstacle , indeed , which all his master's banknotes could not remove . 
There was a general disappointment among the passengers , who , without reckoning the delay , saw themselves compelled to trudge fifteen miles over a plain covered with snow . 
They grumbled and protested , and would certainly have thus attracted Phileas Fogg's attention if he had not been completely absorbed in his game . 
On the bridge ? asked a passenger . 
With our train ? With our train . 
Passepartout stopped short , and eagerly listened to the engineer . 
But the bridge is unsafe , urged the conductor . 
No matter , replied Forster I think that by putting on the very highest speed we might have a chance of getting over . 
The devil ! muttered Passepartout . 
But a number of the passengers were at once attracted by the engineer's proposal , and Colonel Proctor was especially delighted , and found the plan a very feasible one . 
He told stories about engineers leaping their trains over rivers without bridges , by putting on full steam and many of those present avowed themselves of the engineer's mind . 
We have fifty chances out of a hundred of getting over , said one . 
Eighty ! ninety ! Passepartout was astounded , and , though ready to attempt anything to get over Medicine Creek , thought the experiment proposed a little too American . 
Doubtless , urged Passepartout , we can pass , but perhaps it would be more prudent What ! Prudent ! cried Colonel Proctor , whom this word seemed to excite prodigiously . 
The poor fellow did not know to whom to address himself . 
Are you afraid ? asked Colonel Proctor . 
I afraid ? Very well I will show these people that a Frenchman can be as American as they ! All aboard ! cried the conductor . 
Yes , all aboard ! repeated Passepartout , and immediately . 
The passengers resumed their places in the cars . 
Passepartout took his seat without telling what had passed . 
The whist players were quite absorbed in their game . 
The locomotive whistled vigorously the engineer , reversing the steam , backed the train for nearly a mile retiring , like a jumper , in order to take a longer leap . 
They perceived that the whole train , rushing on at the rate of a hundred miles an hour , hardly bore upon the rails at all . 
And they passed over ! It was like a flash . 
No one saw the bridge . 
The train leaped , so to speak , from one bank to the other , and the engineer could not stop it until it had gone five miles beyond the station . 
But scarcely had the train passed the river , when the bridge , completely ruined , fell with a crash into the rapids of Medicine Bow . 
The road here attained the highest elevation of the journey , eight thousand and ninety two feet above the level of the sea . 
The travellers had now only to descend to the Atlantic by limitless plains , levelled by nature . 
A branch of the grand trunk led off southward to Denver , the capital of Colorado . 
The country round about is rich in gold and silver , and more than fifty thousand inhabitants are already settled there . 
Thirteen hundred and eighty two miles had been passed over from San Francisco , in three days and three nights four days and nights more would probably bring them to New York . 
Phileas Fogg was not as yet behind hand . 
During the night Camp Walbach was passed on the left Lodge Pole Creek ran parallel with the road , marking the boundary between the territories of Wyoming and Colorado . 
They entered Nebraska at eleven , passed near Sedgwick , and touched at Julesburg , on the southern branch of the Platte River . 
It was here that the Union Pacific Railroad was inaugurated on the rd of October , , by the chief engineer , General Dodge . 
The whistle of the locomotive , more powerful than Amphion's lyre , was about to bid them rise from American soil . 
Fort McPherson was left behind at eight in the morning , and three hundred and fifty seven miles had yet to be traversed before reaching Omaha . 
The road followed the capricious windings of the southern branch of the Platte River , on its left bank . 
The one hundred and first meridian was passed . 
Mr. Fogg and his partners had resumed their game no one not even the dummy complained of the length of the trip . 
Fix had begun by winning several guineas , which he seemed likely to lose but he showed himself a not less eager whist player than Mr. Fogg . 
During the morning , chance distinctly favoured that gentleman . 
Trumps and honours were showered upon his hands . 
Once , having resolved on a bold stroke , he was on the point of playing a spade , when a voice behind him said , I should play a diamond . 
Mr. Fogg , Aouda , and Fix raised their heads , and beheld Colonel Proctor . 
Stamp Proctor and Phileas Fogg recognised each other at once . 
Well , it pleases me to have it diamonds , replied Colonel Proctor , in an insolent tone . 
He made a movement as if to seize the card which had just been played , adding , You don't understand anything about whist . 
Perhaps I do , as well as another , said Phileas Fogg , rising . 
You have only to try , son of John Bull , replied the colonel . 
Aouda turned pale , and her blood ran cold . 
She seized Mr. Fogg's arm and gently pulled him back . 
Passepartout was ready to pounce upon the American , who was staring insolently at his opponent . 
The colonel has again insulted me , by insisting that I should not play a spade , and he shall give me satisfaction for it . 
When and where you will , replied the American , and with whatever weapon you choose . 
Aouda in vain attempted to retain Mr. Fogg as vainly did the detective endeavour to make the quarrel his . 
Passepartout wished to throw the colonel out of the window , but a sign from his master checked him . 
Phileas Fogg left the car , and the American followed him upon the platform . 
Sir , said Mr. Fogg to his adversary , I am in a great hurry to get back to Europe , and any delay whatever will be greatly to my disadvantage . 
Well , what's that to me ? replied Colonel Proctor . 
All this is an evasion , cried Stamp Proctor . 
Now or never ! Very good . 
You are going to New York ? No. To Chicago ? No. To Omaha ? What difference is it to you ? Do you know Plum Creek ? No , replied Mr. Fogg . 
The train will be there in an hour , and will stop there ten minutes . 
In ten minutes several revolver shots could be exchanged . 
Very well , said Mr. Fogg . 
I will stop at Plum Creek . 
And I guess you'll stay there too , added the American insolently . 
Who knows ? replied Mr. Fogg , returning to the car as coolly as usual . 
Mr. Fogg resumed the interrupted game with perfect calmness . 
At eleven o'clock the locomotive's whistle announced that they were approaching Plum Creek station . 
Mr. Fogg rose , and , followed by Fix , went out upon the platform . 
Passepartout accompanied him , carrying a pair of revolvers . 
Aouda remained in the car , as pale as death . 
The door of the next car opened , and Colonel Proctor appeared on the platform , attended by a Yankee of his own stamp as his second . 
We are twenty minutes late , and we shall not stop . 
But I am going to fight a duel with this gentleman . 
I am sorry , said the conductor but we shall be off at once . 
There's the bell ringing now . 
I'm really very sorry , gentlemen , said the conductor . 
Under any other circumstances I should have been happy to oblige you . 
It would be perfectly so , replied Phileas Fogg . 
Well , we are really in America , thought Passepartout , and the conductor is a gentleman of the first order ! So muttering , he followed his master . 
The two combatants , their seconds , and the conductor passed through the cars to the rear of the train . 
The passengers granted the request with alacrity , and straightway disappeared on the platform . 
The car , which was some fifty feet long , was very convenient for their purpose . 
The adversaries might march on each other in the aisle , and fire at their ease . 
Never was duel more easily arranged . 
Mr. Fogg and Colonel Proctor , each provided with two six barrelled revolvers , entered the car . 
The seconds , remaining outside , shut them in . 
They were to begin firing at the first whistle of the locomotive . 
After an interval of two minutes , what remained of the two gentlemen would be taken from the car . 
Nothing could be more simple . 
Indeed , it was all so simple that Fix and Passepartout felt their hearts beating as if they would crack . 
They were listening for the whistle agreed upon , when suddenly savage cries resounded in the air , accompanied by reports which certainly did not issue from the car where the duellists were . 
The reports continued in front and the whole length of the train . 
Cries of terror proceeded from the interior of the cars . 
Colonel Proctor and Mr. Fogg , revolvers in hand , hastily quitted their prison , and rushed forward where the noise was most clamorous . 
They then perceived that the train was attacked by a band of Sioux . 
This was not the first attempt of these daring Indians , for more than once they had waylaid trains on the road . 
A hundred of them had , according to their habit , jumped upon the steps without stopping the train , with the ease of a clown mounting a horse at full gallop . 
The Sioux were armed with guns , from which came the reports , to which the passengers , who were almost all armed , responded by revolver shots . 
The Indians had first mounted the engine , and half stunned the engineer and stoker with blows from their muskets . 
The Sioux had at the same time invaded the cars , skipping like enraged monkeys over the roofs , thrusting open the doors , and fighting hand to hand with the passengers . 
Penetrating the baggage car , they pillaged it , throwing the trunks out of the train . 
The cries and shots were constant . 
The travellers defended themselves bravely some of the cars were barricaded , and sustained a siege , like moving forts , carried along at a speed of a hundred miles an hour . 
Aouda behaved courageously from the first . 
She defended herself like a true heroine with a revolver , which she shot through the broken windows whenever a savage made his appearance . 
Twenty Sioux had fallen mortally wounded to the ground , and the wheels crushed those who fell upon the rails as if they had been worms . 
Several passengers , shot or stunned , lay on the seats . 
The conductor was fighting beside Mr. Fogg , when he was shot and fell . 
Stay , monsieur , cried Passepartout I will go . 
The train , now detached from the engine , remained a little behind , whilst the locomotive rushed forward with increased speed . 
The soldiers of the fort , attracted by the shots , hurried up the Sioux had not expected them , and decamped in a body before the train entirely stopped . 
But when the passengers counted each other on the station platform several were found missing among others the courageous Frenchman , whose devotion had just saved them . 
Chapter XXX IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG SIMPLY DOES HIS DUTY Three passengers including Passepartout had disappeared . 
Had they been killed in the struggle ? Were they taken prisoners by the Sioux ? It was impossible to tell . 
There were many wounded , but none mortally . 
Colonel Proctor was one of the most seriously hurt he had fought bravely , and a ball had entered his groin . 
He was carried into the station with the other wounded passengers , to receive such attention as could be of avail . 
Aouda was safe and Phileas Fogg , who had been in the thickest of the fight , had not received a scratch . 
Fix was slightly wounded in the arm . 
But Passepartout was not to be found , and tears coursed down Aouda's cheeks . 
All the passengers had got out of the train , the wheels of which were stained with blood . 
From the tyres and spokes hung ragged pieces of flesh . 
As far as the eye could reach on the white plain behind , red trails were visible . 
The last Sioux were disappearing in the south , along the banks of Republican River . 
Mr. Fogg , with folded arms , remained motionless . 
He had a serious decision to make . 
Aouda , standing near him , looked at him without speaking , and he understood her look . 
Ah , Mr. Mr. Fogg ! cried she , clasping his hands and covering them with tears . 
Living , added Mr. Fogg , if we do not lose a moment . 
Phileas Fogg , by this resolution , inevitably sacrificed himself he pronounced his own doom . 
The delay of a single day would make him lose the steamer at New York , and his bet would be certainly lost . 
But as he thought , It is my duty , he did not hesitate . 
The commanding officer of Fort Kearney was there . 
A hundred of his soldiers had placed themselves in a position to defend the station , should the Sioux attack it . 
Sir , said Mr. Fogg to the captain , three passengers have disappeared . 
Dead ? asked the captain . 
Dead or prisoners that is the uncertainty which must be solved . 
Do you propose to pursue the Sioux ? That's a serious thing to do , sir , returned the captain . 
These Indians may retreat beyond the Arkansas , and I cannot leave the fort unprotected . 
The lives of three men are in question , sir , said Phileas Fogg . 
Doubtless but can I risk the lives of fifty men to save three ? I don't know whether you can , sir but you ought to do so . 
Nobody here , returned the other , has a right to teach me my duty . 
Very well , said Mr. Fogg , coldly . 
No , sir , you shall not go alone , cried the captain , touched in spite of himself . 
No ! you are a brave man . 
Thirty volunteers ! he added , turning to the soldiers . 
The whole company started forward at once . 
The captain had only to pick his men . 
Thirty were chosen , and an old sergeant placed at their head . 
Thanks , captain , said Mr. Fogg . 
Will you let me go with you ? asked Fix . 
Do as you please , sir . 
But if you wish to do me a favour , you will remain with Aouda . 
In case anything should happen to me A sudden pallor overspread the detective's face . 
I will stay , said he . 
A few moments after , Mr. Fogg pressed the young woman's hand , and , having confided to her his precious carpet bag , went off with the sergeant and his little squad . 
But , before going , he had said to the soldiers , My friends , I will divide five thousand dollars among you , if we save the prisoners . 
It was then a little past noon . 
Aouda retired to a waiting room , and there she waited alone , thinking of the simple and noble generosity , the tranquil courage of Phileas Fogg . 
He had sacrificed his fortune , and was now risking his life , all without hesitation , from duty , in silence . 
Fix did not have the same thoughts , and could scarcely conceal his agitation . 
He walked feverishly up and down the platform , but soon resumed his outward composure . 
He now saw the folly of which he had been guilty in letting Fogg go alone . 
I have been an idiot ! he thought , and this man will see it . 
He did not know what to do . 
Sometimes he was tempted to tell Aouda all but he could not doubt how the young woman would receive his confidences . 
What course should he take ? He thought of pursuing Fogg across the vast white plains it did not seem impossible that he might overtake him . 
Footsteps were easily printed on the snow ! But soon , under a new sheet , every imprint would be effaced . 
He felt a sort of insurmountable longing to abandon the game altogether . 
He could now leave Fort Kearney station , and pursue his journey homeward in peace . 
Towards two o'clock in the afternoon , while it was snowing hard , long whistles were heard approaching from the east . 
A great shadow , preceded by a wild light , slowly advanced , appearing still larger through the mist , which gave it a fantastic aspect . 
The mystery was soon explained . 
Neither the engineer nor the stoker was dead , and , after remaining for some time in their swoon , had come to themselves . 
The train had then stopped . 
The engineer , when he found himself in the desert , and the locomotive without cars , understood what had happened . 
He could not imagine how the locomotive had become separated from the train but he did not doubt that the train left behind was in distress . 
He did not hesitate what to do . 
It would be prudent to continue on to Omaha , for it would be dangerous to return to the train , which the Indians might still be engaged in pillaging . 
Nevertheless , he began to rebuild the fire in the furnace the pressure again mounted , and the locomotive returned , running backwards to Fort Kearney . 
This it was which was whistling in the mist . 
The travellers were glad to see the locomotive resume its place at the head of the train . 
They could now continue the journey so terribly interrupted . 
Aouda , on seeing the locomotive come up , hurried out of the station , and asked the conductor , Are you going to start ? At once , madam . 
But the prisoners , our unfortunate fellow travellers I cannot interrupt the trip , replied the conductor . 
We are already three hours behind time . 
And when will another train pass here from San Francisco ? To morrow evening , madam . 
To morrow evening ! But then it will be too late ! We must wait It is impossible , responded the conductor . 
If you wish to go , please get in . 
I will not go , said Aouda . 
Fix had heard this conversation . 
The station platform burned his feet , and he could not stir . 
The conflict in his mind again began anger and failure stifled him . 
He wished to struggle on to the end . 
Meanwhile the passengers and some of the wounded , among them Colonel Proctor , whose injuries were serious , had taken their places in the train . 
The buzzing of the over heated boiler was heard , and the steam was escaping from the valves . 
The engineer whistled , the train started , and soon disappeared , mingling its white smoke with the eddies of the densely falling snow . 
The detective had remained behind . 
The weather was dismal , and it was very cold . 
Fix sat motionless on a bench in the station he might have been thought asleep . 
She heard and saw nothing . 
Then she would return , chilled through , to issue out again after the lapse of a few moments , but always in vain . 
Evening came , and the little band had not returned . 
As night approached , the snow fell less plentifully , but it became intensely cold . 
Absolute silence rested on the plains . 
Neither flight of bird nor passing of beast troubled the perfect calm . 
Throughout the night Aouda , full of sad forebodings , her heart stifled with anguish , wandered about on the verge of the plains . 
Her imagination carried her far off , and showed her innumerable dangers . 
What she suffered through the long hours it would be impossible to describe . 
Fix remained stationary in the same place , but did not sleep . 
Once a man approached and spoke to him , and the detective merely replied by shaking his head . 
At dawn , the half extinguished disc of the sun rose above a misty horizon but it was now possible to recognise objects two miles off . 
Phileas Fogg and the squad had gone southward in the south all was still vacancy . 
It was then seven o'clock . 
The captain , who was really alarmed , did not know what course to take . 
Calling one of his lieutenants , he was on the point of ordering a reconnaissance , when gunshots were heard . 
Was it a signal ? The soldiers rushed out of the fort , and half a mile off they perceived a little band returning in good order . 
Mr. Fogg was marching at their head , and just behind him were Passepartout and the other two travellers , rescued from the Sioux . 
They had met and fought the Indians ten miles south of Fort Kearney . 
Shortly before the detachment arrived . 
All were welcomed with joyful cries . 
As for Aouda , she took her protector's hand and pressed it in her own , too much moved to speak . 
Meanwhile , Passepartout was looking about for the train he thought he should find it there , ready to start for Omaha , and he hoped that the time lost might be regained . 
The train ! the train ! cried he . 
And when does the next train pass here ? said Phileas Fogg . 
Ah ! returned the impassible gentleman quietly . 
Chapter XXXI IN WHICH FIX , THE DETECTIVE , CONSIDERABLY FURTHERS THE INTERESTS OF PHILEAS FOGG Phileas Fogg found himself twenty hours behind time . 
Passepartout , the involuntary cause of this delay , was desperate . 
I have a purpose in asking , resumed Fix . 
Good ! you are therefore twenty hours behind . 
Twelve from twenty leaves eight . 
You must regain eight hours . 
Do you wish to try to do so ? On foot ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
No on a sledge , replied Fix . 
On a sledge with sails . 
A man has proposed such a method to me . 
It was the man who had spoken to Fix during the night , and whose offer he had refused . 
An instant after , Mr. Fogg and the American , whose name was Mudge , entered a hut built just below the fort . 
A high mast was fixed on the frame , held firmly by metallic lashings , to which was attached a large brigantine sail . 
This mast held an iron stay upon which to hoist a jib sail . 
Behind , a sort of rudder served to guide the vehicle . 
It was , in short , a sledge rigged like a sloop . 
During the winter , when the trains are blocked up by the snow , these sledges make extremely rapid journeys across the frozen plains from one station to another . 
Mr. Fogg readily made a bargain with the owner of this land craft . 
The wind was favourable , being fresh , and blowing from the west . 
The snow had hardened , and Mudge was very confident of being able to transport Mr. Fogg in a few hours to Omaha . 
Thence the trains eastward run frequently to Chicago and New York . 
It was not impossible that the lost time might yet be recovered and such an opportunity was not to be rejected . 
But Aouda refused to separate from Mr. Fogg , and Passepartout was delighted with her decision for nothing could induce him to leave his master while Fix was with him . 
It would be difficult to guess the detective's thoughts . 
At eight o'clock the sledge was ready to start . 
The passengers took their places on it , and wrapped themselves up closely in their travelling cloaks . 
The two great sails were hoisted , and under the pressure of the wind the sledge slid over the hardened snow with a velocity of forty miles an hour . 
The distance between Fort Kearney and Omaha , as the birds fly , is at most two hundred miles . 
If the wind held good , the distance might be traversed in five hours if no accident happened the sledge might reach Omaha by one o'clock . 
What a journey ! The travellers , huddled close together , could not speak for the cold , intensified by the rapidity at which they were going . 
The sledge sped on as lightly as a boat over the waves . 
When the breeze came skimming the earth the sledge seemed to be lifted off the ground by its sails . 
Mudge , who was at the rudder , kept in a straight line , and by a turn of his hand checked the lurches which the vehicle had a tendency to make . 
All the sails were up , and the jib was so arranged as not to screen the brigantine . 
A top mast was hoisted , and another jib , held out to the wind , added its force to the other sails . 
Although the speed could not be exactly estimated , the sledge could not be going at less than forty miles an hour . 
The prairie , across which the sledge was moving in a straight line , was as flat as a sea . 
It seemed like a vast frozen lake . 
It followed throughout the right bank of the Platte River . 
The sledge , shortening this route , took a chord of the arc described by the railway . 
Mudge was not afraid of being stopped by the Platte River , because it was frozen . 
But the breeze , far from lessening its force , blew as if to bend the mast , which , however , the metallic lashings held firmly . 
These lashings , like the chords of a stringed instrument , resounded as if vibrated by a violin bow . 
The sledge slid along in the midst of a plaintively intense melody . 
Those chords give the fifth and the octave , said Mr. Fogg . 
These were the only words he uttered during the journey . 
Aouda , cosily packed in furs and cloaks , was sheltered as much as possible from the attacks of the freezing wind . 
As for Passepartout , his face was as red as the sun's disc when it sets in the mist , and he laboriously inhaled the biting air . 
With his natural buoyancy of spirits , he began to hope again . 
Passepartout even felt a strong desire to grasp his ally , Fix , by the hand . 
He remembered that it was the detective who procured the sledge , the only means of reaching Omaha in time but , checked by some presentiment , he kept his usual reserve . 
One thing , however , Passepartout would never forget , and that was the sacrifice which Mr. Fogg had made , without hesitation , to rescue him from the Sioux . 
Mr. Fogg had risked his fortune and his life . 
No ! His servant would never forget that ! While each of the party was absorbed in reflections so different , the sledge flew past over the vast carpet of snow . 
The creeks it passed over were not perceived . 
Fields and streams disappeared under the uniform whiteness . 
The plain was absolutely deserted . 
Between the Union Pacific road and the branch which unites Kearney with Saint Joseph it formed a great uninhabited island . 
Neither village , station , nor fort appeared . 
From time to time they sped by some phantom like tree , whose white skeleton twisted and rattled in the wind . 
Sometimes flocks of wild birds rose , or bands of gaunt , famished , ferocious prairie wolves ran howling after the sledge . 
Passepartout , revolver in hand , held himself ready to fire on those which came too near . 
About noon Mudge perceived by certain landmarks that he was crossing the Platte River . 
He said nothing , but he felt certain that he was now within twenty miles of Omaha . 
Phileas Fogg generously rewarded Mudge , whose hand Passepartout warmly grasped , and the party directed their steps to the Omaha railway station . 
The Pacific Railroad proper finds its terminus at this important Nebraska town . 
Omaha is connected with Chicago by the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad , which runs directly east , and passes fifty stations . 
A train was ready to start when Mr. Fogg and his party reached the station , and they only had time to get into the cars . 
They had seen nothing of Omaha but Passepartout confessed to himself that this was not to be regretted , as they were not travelling to see the sights . 
The train passed rapidly across the State of Iowa , by Council Bluffs , Des Moines , and Iowa City . 
During the night it crossed the Mississippi at Davenport , and by Rock Island entered Illinois . 
Nine hundred miles separated Chicago from New York but trains are not wanting at Chicago . 
None of the other steamers were able to serve his projects . 
The Inman steamer did not depart till the next day , and could not cross the Atlantic in time to save the wager . 
Mr. Fogg learned all this in consulting his Bradshaw , which gave him the daily movements of the trans Atlantic steamers . 
Passepartout was crushed it overwhelmed him to lose the boat by three quarters of an hour . 
Mr. Fogg , however , did not reproach him and , on leaving the Cunard pier , only said We will consult about what is best to morrow . 
The party crossed the Hudson in the Jersey City ferryboat , and drove in a carriage to the St . 
Nicholas Hotel , on Broadway . 
The next day was the th of December . 
From seven in the morning of the th to a quarter before nine in the evening of the st there were nine days , thirteen hours , and forty five minutes . 
If Phileas Fogg had left in the China , one of the fastest steamers on the Atlantic , he would have reached Liverpool , and then London , within the period agreed upon . 
Mr. Fogg left the hotel alone , after giving Passepartout instructions to await his return , and inform Aouda to be ready at an instant's notice . 
He proceeded to the banks of the Hudson , and looked about among the vessels moored or anchored in the river , for any that were about to depart . 
But they were mostly sailing vessels , of which , of course , Phileas Fogg could make no use . 
Phileas Fogg hailed a boat , got into it , and soon found himself on board the Henrietta , iron hulled , wood built above . 
He ascended to the deck , and asked for the captain , who forthwith presented himself . 
He was a man of fifty , a sort of sea wolf , with big eyes , a complexion of oxidised copper , red hair and thick neck , and a growling voice . 
The captain ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
I am Phileas Fogg , of London . 
And I am Andrew Speedy , of Cardiff . 
You are going to put to sea ? In an hour . 
You are bound for Bordeaux . 
And your cargo ? No freight . 
Have you any passengers ? No passengers . 
Too much in the way . 
Is your vessel a swift one ? Between eleven and twelve knots . 
The Henrietta , well known . 
Will you carry me and three other persons to Liverpool ? To Liverpool ? Why not to China ? I said Liverpool . 
No ! No ? No. I am setting out for Bordeaux , and shall go to Bordeaux . 
Money is no object ? None . 
The captain spoke in a tone which did not admit of a reply . 
But the owners of the Henrietta resumed Phileas Fogg . 
The owners are myself , replied the captain . 
The vessel belongs to me . 
I will freight it for you . 
No. I will buy it of you . 
No. Phileas Fogg did not betray the least disappointment but the situation was a grave one . 
It was not at New York as at Hong Kong , nor with the captain of the Henrietta as with the captain of the Tankadere . 
Up to this time money had smoothed away every obstacle . 
Still , some means must be found to cross the Atlantic on a boat , unless by balloon which would have been venturesome , besides not being capable of being put in practice . 
I offer you two thousand . 
And there are four of you ? Four . 
Captain Speedy began to scratch his head . 
There were eight thousand dollars to gain , without changing his route for which it was well worth conquering the repugnance he had for all kinds of passengers . 
Besides , passenger's at two thousand dollars are no longer passengers , but valuable merchandise . 
I start at nine o'clock , said Captain Speedy , simply . 
Are you and your party ready ? We will be on board at nine o'clock , replied , no less simply , Mr. Fogg . 
It was half past eight . 
To disembark from the Henrietta , jump into a hack , hurry to the St . 
They were on board when the Henrietta made ready to weigh anchor . 
When Passepartout heard what this last voyage was going to cost , he uttered a prolonged Oh ! which extended throughout his vocal gamut . 
As for Fix , he said to himself that the Bank of England would certainly not come out of this affair well indemnified . 
During the day she skirted Long Island , passed Fire Island , and directed her course rapidly eastward . 
At noon the next day , a man mounted the bridge to ascertain the vessel's position . 
It might be thought that this was Captain Speedy . 
Not the least in the world . 
It was Phileas Fogg , Esquire . 
As for Captain Speedy , he was shut up in his cabin under lock and key , and was uttering loud cries , which signified an anger at once pardonable and excessive . 
What had happened was very simple . 
Phileas Fogg wished to go to Liverpool , but the captain would not carry him there . 
It was very clear , to see Mr. Fogg manage the craft , that he had been a sailor . 
How the adventure ended will be seen anon . 
Aouda was anxious , though she said nothing . 
As for Passepartout , he thought Mr. Fogg's manoeuvre simply glorious . 
The captain had said between eleven and twelve knots , and the Henrietta confirmed his prediction . 
During the first days , they went along smoothly enough . 
His master's last exploit , the consequences of which he ignored , enchanted him . 
Never had the crew seen so jolly and dexterous a fellow . 
He formed warm friendships with the sailors , and amazed them with his acrobatic feats . 
He thought they managed the vessel like gentlemen , and that the stokers fired up like heroes . 
His loquacious good humour infected everyone . 
He had forgotten the past , its vexations and delays . 
He only thought of the end , so nearly accomplished and sometimes he boiled over with impatience , as if heated by the furnaces of the Henrietta . 
Fix , it must be confessed , understood nothing of what was going on . 
The conquest of the Henrietta , the bribery of the crew , Fogg managing the boat like a skilled seaman , amazed and confused him . 
He did not know what to think . 
The conjecture was at least a plausible one , and the detective began to seriously regret that he had embarked on the affair . 
Mr. Fogg did not seem even to know that there was a captain on board . 
On the th they passed the edge of the Banks of Newfoundland , a dangerous locality during the winter , especially , there are frequent fogs and heavy gales of wind . 
She pitched violently , and this retarded her progress . 
The breeze little by little swelled into a tempest , and it was to be feared that the Henrietta might not be able to maintain herself upright on the waves . 
Passepartout's visage darkened with the skies , and for two days the poor fellow experienced constant fright . 
But Phileas Fogg was a bold mariner , and knew how to maintain headway against the sea and he kept on his course , without even decreasing his steam . 
The Henrietta , when she could not rise upon the waves , crossed them , swamping her deck , but passing safely . 
Sometinies the screw rose out of the water , beating its protruding end , when a mountain of water raised the stern above the waves but the craft always kept straight ahead . 
It continued fresh , but , unhappily , it remained obstinately in the south east , rendering the sails useless . 
The th of December was the seventy fifth day since Phileas Fogg's departure from London , and the Henrietta had not yet been seriously delayed . 
Half of the voyage was almost accomplished , and the worst localities had been passed . 
In summer , success would have been well nigh certain . 
In winter , they were at the mercy of the bad season . 
Passepartout said nothing but he cherished hope in secret , and comforted himself with the reflection that , if the wind failed them , they might still count on the steam . 
On this day the engineer came on deck , went up to Mr. Fogg , and began to speak earnestly with him . 
Without knowing why it was a presentiment , perhaps Passepartout became vaguely uneasy . 
He would have given one of his ears to hear with the other what the engineer was saying . 
I will consider , replied Mr. Fogg . 
Passepartout understood it all he was seized with mortal anxiety . 
Then you believe that we really are going to Liverpool ? Of course . 
Ass ! replied the detective , shrugging his shoulders and turning on his heel . 
And now what course would Phileas Fogg adopt ? It was difficult to imagine . 
Nevertheless he seemed to have decided upon one , for that evening he sent for the engineer , and said to him , Feed all the fires until the coal is exhausted . 
A few moments after , the funnel of the Henrietta vomited forth torrents of smoke . 
Do not let the fires go down , replied Mr. Fogg . 
Keep them up to the last . 
Let the valves be filled . 
Towards noon Phileas Fogg , having ascertained their position , called Passepartout , and ordered him to go for Captain Speedy . 
It was as if the honest fellow had been commanded to unchain a tiger . 
The bomb was Captain Speedy . 
It was clear that he was on the point of bursting . 
Where are we ? were the first words his anger permitted him to utter . 
Had the poor man be an apoplectic , he could never have recovered from his paroxysm of wrath . 
Where are we ? he repeated , with purple face . 
Seven hundred and seven miles from Liverpool , replied Mr. Fogg , with imperturbable calmness . 
Pirate ! cried Captain Speedy . 
I have sent for you , sir Pickaroon ! sir , continued Mr. Fogg , to ask you to sell me your vessel . 
No ! By all the devils , no ! But I shall be obliged to burn her . 
Burn the Henrietta ! Yes at least the upper part of her . 
The coal has given out . 
Burn my vessel ! cried Captain Speedy , who could scarcely pronounce the words . 
A vessel worth fifty thousand dollars ! Here are sixty thousand , replied Phileas Fogg , handing the captain a roll of bank bills . 
This had a prodigious effect on Andrew Speedy . 
An American can scarcely remain unmoved at the sight of sixty thousand dollars . 
The captain forgot in an instant his anger , his imprisonment , and all his grudges against his passenger . 
The Henrietta was twenty years old it was a great bargain . 
The bomb would not go off after all . 
Mr. Fogg had taken away the match . 
And I shall still have the iron hull , said the captain in a softer tone . 
The iron hull and the engine . 
Is it agreed ? Agreed . 
And Andrew Speedy , seizing the banknotes , counted them and consigned them to his pocket . 
During this colloquy , Passepartout was as white as a sheet , and Fix seemed on the point of having an apoplectic fit . 
When Andrew Speedy had pocketed the money , Mr. Fogg said to him , Don't let this astonish you , sir . 
You must know that I shall lose twenty thousand pounds , unless I arrive in London by a quarter before nine on the evening of the st of December . 
Captain Fogg , you've got something of the Yankee about you . 
Have the interior seats , bunks , and frames pulled down , and burn them . 
On the next day , the th of December , the masts , rafts , and spars were burned the crew worked lustily , keeping up the fires . 
Passepartout hewed , cut , and sawed away with all his might . 
There was a perfect rage for demolition . 
The railings , fittings , the greater part of the deck , and top sides disappeared on the th , and the Henrietta was now only a flat hulk . 
But on this day they sighted the Irish coast and Fastnet Light . 
By ten in the evening they were passing Queenstown . 
Phileas Fogg had only twenty four hours more in which to get to London that length of time was necessary to reach Liverpool , with all steam on . 
And the steam was about to give out altogether ! Sir , said Captain Speedy , who was now deeply interested in Mr. Fogg's project , I really commiserate you . 
We are only opposite Queenstown . 
Ah , said Mr. Fogg , is that place where we see the lights Queenstown ? Yes . 
Can we enter the harbour ? Not under three hours . 
Stay , replied Mr. Fogg calmly , without betraying in his features that by a supreme inspiration he was about to attempt once more to conquer ill fortune . 
Queenstown is the Irish port at which the trans Atlantic steamers stop to put off the mails . 
Phileas Fogg counted on gaining twelve hours in the same way . 
The party went on shore at once . 
Fix was greatly tempted to arrest Mr. Fogg on the spot but he did not . 
Phileas Fogg at last disembarked on the Liverpool quay , at twenty minutes before twelve , st December . 
He was only six hours distant from London . 
But at this moment Fix came up , put his hand upon Mr. Fogg's shoulder , and , showing his warrant , said , You are really Phileas Fogg ? I am . 
I arrest you in the Queen's name ! Chapter XXXIV IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG AT LAST REACHES LONDON Phileas Fogg was in prison . 
He had been shut up in the Custom House , and he was to he transferred to London the next day . 
Passepartout , when he saw his master arrested , would have fallen upon Fix had he not been held back by some policemen . 
Aouda was thunderstruck at the suddenness of an event which she could not understand . 
Passepartout explained to her how it was that the honest and courageous Fogg was arrested as a robber . 
The young woman's heart revolted against so heinous a charge , and when she saw that she could attempt to do nothing to save her protector , she wept bitterly . 
As for Fix , he had arrested Mr. Fogg because it was his duty , whether Mr. Fogg were guilty or not . 
Passepartout wept till he was blind , and felt like blowing his brains out . 
Aouda and he had remained , despite the cold , under the portico of the Custom House . 
Neither wished to leave the place both were anxious to see Mr. Fogg again . 
That gentleman was really ruined , and that at the moment when he was about to attain his end . 
He was not , it is true , resigned but this last blow failed to force him into an outward betrayal of any emotion . 
Not a word escaped his lips , but his look was singularly set and stern . 
But the door was locked , and the window heavily barred with iron rods . 
He sat down again , and drew his journal from his pocket . 
On the line where these words were written , st December , Saturday , Liverpool , he added , th day , . 
The Custom House clock struck one . 
Mr. Fogg observed that his watch was two hours too fast . 
Two hours ! Admitting that he was at this moment taking an express train , he could reach London and the Reform Club by a quarter before nine , p . 
At thirty three minutes past two he heard a singular noise outside , then a hasty opening of doors . 
Passepartout's voice was audible , and immediately after that of Fix . 
Phileas Fogg's eyes brightened for an instant . 
The door swung open , and he saw Passepartout , Aouda , and Fix , who hurried towards him . 
Fix was out of breath , and his hair was in disorder . 
He had only received his deserts . 
Mr. Fogg , Aouda , and Passepartout left the Custom House without delay , got into a cab , and in a few moments descended at the station . 
Phileas Fogg asked if there was an express train about to leave for London . 
It was forty minutes past two . 
The express train had left thirty five minutes before . 
Phileas Fogg then ordered a special train . 
There were several rapid locomotives on hand but the railway arrangements did not permit the special train to leave until three o'clock . 
At that hour Phileas Fogg , having stimulated the engineer by the offer of a generous reward , at last set out towards London with Aouda and his faithful servant . 
It was necessary to make the journey in five hours and a half and this would have been easy on a clear road throughout . 
But there were forced delays , and when Mr. Fogg stepped from the train at the terminus , all the clocks in London were striking ten minutes before nine . 
Having made the tour of the world , he was behind hand five minutes . 
His doors and windows were still closed , no appearance of change was visible . 
After leaving the station , Mr. Fogg gave Passepartout instructions to purchase some provisions , and quietly went to his domicile . 
He bore his misfortune with his habitual tranquillity . 
There only remained of his fortune the twenty thousand pounds deposited at Barings , and this amount he owed to his friends of the Reform Club . 
But this wager totally ruined him . 
Mr. Fogg's course , however , was fully decided upon he knew what remained for him to do . 
A room in the house in Saville Row was set apart for Aouda , who was overwhelmed with grief at her protector's misfortune . 
From the words which Mr. Fogg dropped , she saw that he was meditating some serious project . 
First of all , the worthy fellow had gone up to his room , and had extinguished the gas burner , which had been burning for eighty days . 
Mr. Fogg went to bed , but did he sleep ? Aouda did not once close her eyes . 
Passepartout watched all night , like a faithful dog , at his master's door . 
Mr. Fogg called him in the morning , and told him to get Aouda's breakfast , and a cup of tea and a chop for himself . 
He desired Aouda to excuse him from breakfast and dinner , as his time would be absorbed all day in putting his affairs to rights . 
In the evening he would ask permission to have a few moment's conversation with the young lady . 
Passepartout , having received his orders , had nothing to do but obey them . 
He looked at his imperturbable master , and could scarcely bring his mind to leave him . 
His heart was full , and his conscience tortured by remorse for he accused himself more bitterly than ever of being the cause of the irretrievable disaster . 
My master ! Mr. Fogg ! he cried , why do you not curse me ? It was my fault that I blame no one , returned Phileas Fogg , with perfect calmness . 
Go ! Passepartout left the room , and went to find Aouda , to whom he delivered his master's message . 
Madam , he added , I can do nothing myself nothing ! I have no influence over my master but you , perhaps What influence could I have ? replied Aouda . 
Mr. Fogg is influenced by no one . 
We shall see , replied Aouda , becoming suddenly pensive . 
Why should he present himself at the Reform ? His friends no longer expected him there . 
, he had lost his wager . 
Mr. Fogg , therefore , had no reason for going out , and so he remained at home . 
He shut himself up in his room , and busied himself putting his affairs in order . 
Passepartout continually ascended and descended the stairs . 
The hours were long for him . 
Sometimes he thought of Fix , but no longer in anger . 
Fix , like all the world , had been mistaken in Phileas Fogg , and had only done his duty in tracking and arresting him while he , Passepartout . 
This thought haunted him , and he never ceased cursing his miserable folly . 
About half past seven in the evening Mr. Fogg sent to know if Aouda would receive him , and in a few moments he found himself alone with her . 
Phileas Fogg took a chair , and sat down near the fireplace , opposite Aouda . 
No emotion was visible on his face . 
Fogg returned was exactly the Fogg who had gone away there was the same calm , the same impassibility . 
Please let me finish , returned Mr. Fogg . 
But now I am ruined . 
Still , I beg to place the little I have left at your service . 
But what will become of you , Mr. Fogg ? As for me , madam , replied the gentleman , coldly , I have need of nothing . 
But how do you look upon the fate , sir , which awaits you ? As I am in the habit of doing . 
At least , said Aouda , want should not overtake a man like you . 
Your friends I have no friends , madam . 
Your relatives I have no longer any relatives . 
I pity you , then , Mr. Fogg , for solitude is a sad thing , with no heart to which to confide your griefs . 
They say , though , that misery itself , shared by two sympathetic souls , may be borne with patience . 
They say so , madam . 
There was an unwonted light in his eyes , and a slight trembling of his lips . 
Aouda looked into his face . 
He shut his eyes for an instant , as if to avoid her look . 
When he opened them again , I love you ! he said , simply . 
Yes , by all that is holiest , I love you , and I am entirely yours ! Ah ! cried Aouda , pressing his hand to her heart . 
Passepartout was summoned and appeared immediately . 
Mr. Fogg still held Aouda's hand in his own Passepartout understood , and his big , round face became as radiant as the tropical sun at its zenith . 
Mr. Fogg asked him if it was not too late to notify the Reverend Samuel Wilson , of Marylebone parish , that evening . 
Passepartout smiled his most genial smile , and said , Never too late . 
It was five minutes past eight . 
Will it be for to morrow , Monday ? For to morrow , Monday , said Mr. Fogg , turning to Aouda . 
Yes for to morrow , Monday , she replied . 
Passepartout hurried off as fast as his legs could carry him . 
Phileas Fogg's name was once more at a premium on 'Change . 
His five friends of the Reform Club passed these three days in a state of feverish suspense . 
Telegrams were sent to America and Asia for news of Phileas Fogg . 
Messengers were dispatched to the house in Saville Row morning and evening . 
The police were ignorant what had become of the detective , Fix , who had so unfortunately followed up a false scent . 
Bets increased , nevertheless , in number and value . 
Phileas Fogg , like a racehorse , was drawing near his last turning point . 
The bonds were quoted , no longer at a hundred below par , but at twenty , at ten , and at five and paralytic old Lord Albemarle bet even in his favour . 
A great crowd was collected in Pall Mall and the neighbouring streets on Saturday evening it seemed like a multitude of brokers permanently established around the Reform Club . 
Circulation was impeded , and everywhere disputes , discussions , and financial transactions were going on . 
The police had great difficulty in keeping back the crowd , and as the hour when Phileas Fogg was due approached , the excitement rose to its highest pitch . 
The five antagonists of Phileas Fogg had met in the great saloon of the club . 
When the clock indicated twenty minutes past eight , Andrew Stuart got up , saying , Gentlemen , in twenty minutes the time agreed upon between Mr. Fogg and ourselves will have expired . 
What time did the last train arrive from Liverpool ? asked Thomas Flanagan . 
At twenty three minutes past seven , replied Gauthier Ralph and the next does not arrive till ten minutes after twelve . 
Well , gentlemen , resumed Andrew Stuart , if Phileas Fogg had come in the train , he would have got here by this time . 
We can , therefore , regard the bet as won . 
Wait don't let us be too hasty , replied Samuel Fallentin . 
You know that Mr. Fogg is very eccentric . 
His punctuality is well known he never arrives too soon , or too late and I should not be surprised if he appeared before us at the last minute . 
Why , said Andrew Stuart nervously , if I should see him , I should not believe it was he . 
The fact is , resumed Thomas Flanagan , Mr. Fogg's project was absurdly foolish . 
Whatever his punctuality , he could not prevent the delays which were certain to occur and a delay of only two or three days would be fatal to his tour . 
Observe , too , added John Sullivan , that we have received no intelligence from him , though there are telegraphic lines all along is route . 
I have seen a list of the passengers , and the name of Phileas Fogg is not among them . 
Even if we admit that fortune has favoured him , he can scarcely have reached America . 
I think he will be at least twenty days behind hand , and that Lord Albemarle will lose a cool five thousand . 
It is clear , replied Gauthier Ralph and we have nothing to do but to present Mr. Fogg's cheque at Barings to morrow . 
At this moment , the hands of the club clock pointed to twenty minutes to nine . 
Five minutes more , said Andrew Stuart . 
The five gentlemen looked at each other . 
Their anxiety was becoming intense but , not wishing to betray it , they readily assented to Mr. Fallentin's proposal of a rubber . 
I wouldn't give up my four thousand of the bet , said Andrew Stuart , as he took his seat , for three thousand nine hundred and ninety nine . 
The clock indicated eighteen minutes to nine . 
The players took up their cards , but could not keep their eyes off the clock . 
Then there was a moment of silence . 
The great saloon was perfectly quiet but the murmurs of the crowd outside were heard , with now and then a shrill cry . 
The pendulum beat the seconds , which each player eagerly counted , as he listened , with mathematical regularity . 
Sixteen minutes to nine ! said John Sullivan , in a voice which betrayed his emotion . 
One minute more , and the wager would be won . 
Andrew Stuart and his partners suspended their game . 
They left their cards , and counted the seconds . 
At the fortieth second , nothing . 
At the fiftieth , still nothing . 
At the fifty fifth , a loud cry was heard in the street , followed by applause , hurrahs , and some fierce growls . 
The players rose from their seats . 
Passepartout went on his errand enchanted . 
He soon reached the clergyman's house , but found him not at home . 
Passepartout waited a good twenty minutes , and when he left the reverend gentleman , it was thirty five minutes past eight . 
In three minutes he was in Saville Row again , and staggered back into Mr. Fogg's room . 
What is the matter ? asked Mr. Fogg . 
My master ! gasped Passepartout marriage impossible Impossible ? Impossible for to morrow . 
Why so ? Because to morrow is Sunday ! Monday , replied Mr. Fogg . 
No to day is Saturday . 
Saturday ? Impossible ! Yes , yes , yes , yes ! cried Passepartout . 
The clock indicated a quarter before nine when he appeared in the great saloon . 
In journeying eastward he had gone towards the sun , and the days therefore diminished for him as many times four minutes as he crossed degrees in this direction . 
In other words , while Phileas Fogg , going eastward , saw the sun pass the meridian eighty times , his friends in London only saw it pass the meridian seventy nine times . 
This is why they awaited him at the Reform Club on Saturday , and not Sunday , as Mr. Fogg thought . 
His object was , however , to be victorious , and not to win money . 
He divided the one thousand pounds that remained between Passepartout and the unfortunate Fix , against whom he cherished no grudge . 
He deducted , however , from Passepartout's share the cost of the gas which had burned in his room for nineteen hundred and twenty hours , for the sake of regularity . 
You were ruined , but now you are rich again . 
Pardon me , madam my fortune belongs to you . 
Dear Aouda ! replied Phileas Fogg . 
It need not be said that the marriage took place forty eight hours after , and that Passepartout , glowing and dazzling , gave the bride away . 
Had he not saved her , and was he not entitled to this honour ? The next day , as soon as it was light , Passepartout rapped vigorously at his master's door . 
No doubt , returned Mr. Fogg , by not crossing India . 
But if I had not crossed India , I should not have saved Aouda she would not have been my wife , and Mr. Fogg quietly shut the door . 
Phileas Fogg had won his wager , and had made his journey around the world in eighty days . 
To do this he had employed every means of conveyance steamers , railways , carriages , yachts , trading vessels , sledges , elephants . 
The eccentric gentleman had throughout displayed all his marvellous qualities of coolness and exactitude . 
