This etext was prepared by Dianne Bean , Chino Valley , Arizona . 
The Rose and the Ring by William Makepeace Thackeray PRELUDE It happened that the undersigned spent the last Christmas season in a foreign city where there were many English children . 
Miss Bunch , I say , begged me to draw a set of Twelfth Night characters for the amusement of our young people . 
Our juvenile audience was amused by the adventures of Giglio and Bulbo , Rosalba and Angelica . 
I am bound to say the fate of the Hall Porter created a considerable sensation and the wrath of Countess Gruffanuff was received with extreme pleasure . 
If these children are pleased , thought I , why should not others be amused also ? In a few days Dr . 
But , in the meanwhile , and for a brief holiday , let us laugh and be as pleasant as we can . 
And you elder folk a little joking , and dancing , and fooling will do even you no harm . 
The author wishes you a merry Christmas , and welcomes you to the Fireside Pantomime . 
CONTENTS I. SHOWS HOW THE ROYAL FAMILY SATE DOWN TO BREAKFAST II . 
HOW KING VALOROSO GOT THE CROWN , AND PRINCE GIGLIO WENT WITHOUT III . 
TELLS WHO THE FAIRY BLACKSTICK WAS , AND WHO WERE EVER SO MANY GRAND PERSONAGES BESIDES IV . 
HOW BLACKSTICK WAS NOT ASKED TO THE PRINCESS ANGELICA'S CHRISTENING V. HOW PRINCESS ANGELICA TOOK A LITTLE MAID VI . 
HOW PRINCE GIGLIO BEHAVED HIMSELF VII . 
HOW GIGLIO AND ANGELICA HAD A QUARREL VIII . 
HOW GRUFFANUFF PICKED THE FAIRY RING UP , AND PRINCE BULBO CAME TO COURT IX . 
HOW BETSINDA GOT THE WARMING PAN X. HOW KING VALOROSO WAS IN A DREADFUL PASSION XI . 
WHAT GRUFFANUFF DID TO GIGLIO AND BETSINDA XII . 
HOW BETSINDA FLED , AND WHAT BECAME OF HER XIII . 
HOW QUEEN ROSALBA CAME TO THE CASTLE OF THE BOLD COUNT HOGGINARMO XIV . 
WHAT BECAME OF GIGLIO XV . 
WE RETURN TO ROSALBA XVI . 
HOW HEDZOFF RODE BACK AGAIN TO KING GIGLIO XVII . 
HOW A TREMENDOUS BATTLE TOOK PLACE , AND WHO WON IT XVIII . 
HOW THEY ALL JOURNEYED BACK TO THE CAPITAL XIX . 
AND NOW WE COME TO THE LAST SCENE IN THE PANTOMIME THE ROSE AND THE RING I. SHOWS HOW THE ROYAL FAMILY SATE DOWN TO BREAKFAST This is Valoroso XXIV . 
Remark the delight upon the monarch's royal features . 
He is so absorbed in the perusal of the King of Crim Tartary's letter , that he allows his eggs to get cold , and leaves his august muffins untasted . 
'A little bird , says Angelica . 
'Poor Giglio ! says mamma , pouring out the tea . 
'Bother Giglio ! cries Angelica , tossing up her head , which rustled with a thousand curl papers . 
'I wish , growls the King 'I wish Giglio was . 
'Was better ? Yes , dear , he is better , says the Queen . 
'Angelica's little maid , Betsinda , told me so when she came to my room this morning with my early tea . 
'You are always drinking tea , said the monarch , with a scowl . 
'It is better than drinking port or brandy and water replies Her Majesty . 
'Well , well , my dear , I only said you were fond of drinking tea , said the King of Paflagonia , with an effort as if to command his temper . 
'Angelica ! I hope you have plenty of new dresses your milliners' bills are long enough . 
My dear Queen , you must see and have some parties . 
I prefer dinners , but of course you will be for balls . 
Your everlasting blue velvet quite tires me and , my love , I should like you to have a new necklace . 
Not more than a hundred or a hundred and fifty thousand pounds . 
'And Giglio , dear ? says the Queen . 
'GIGLIO MAY GO TO THE 'Oh , sir , screams Her Majesty . 
'Your own nephew ! our late King's only son . 
'Giglio may go to the tailor's , and order the bills to be sent in to Glumboso to pay . 
Confound him ! I mean bless his dear heart . 
, embraced her husband , and , twining her arm round her daughter's waist , they quitted the breakfast room in order to make all things ready for the princely stranger . 
When they were gone , the smile that had lighted up the eyes of the HUSBAND and FATHER fled the pride of the KING fled the MAN was alone . 
But I need not say I have NOT the pen of that novelist suffice it to say , Valoroso was alone . 
, 'ere I was a king , I needed not this intoxicating draught once I detested the hot brandy wine , and quaffed no other fount but nature's rill . 
Let me withdraw that odious expression . 
The Queen , after thinking whether she should go up and see Giglio , who had been sick , thought 'Not now . 
I will go and see dear Giglio this afternoon and now I will drive to the jeweller's , to look for the necklace and bracelets . 
, had a most splendid coronation , and ordered all the nobles of the kingdom to pay him homage . 
The Prince Giglio , by reason of his tender age at his royal father's death , did not feel the loss of his crown and empire . 
I shouldn't like to sit in that stifling robe with such a thing as that on my head . 
The Prime Minister was Glumboso , an old statesman , who most cheerfully swore fidelity to King Valoroso , and in whose hands the monarch left all the affairs of his kingdom . 
All Valoroso wanted was plenty of money , plenty of hunting , plenty of flattery , and as little trouble as possible . 
Her accomplishments were announced to be even superior to her beauty and governesses used to shame their idle pupils by telling them what Princess Angelica could do . 
She could play the most difficult pieces of music at sight . 
She could answer any one of Mangnall's Questions . 
She knew every date in the history of Paflagonia , and every other country . 
She knew French , English , Italian , German , Spanish , Hebrew , Greek , Latin , Cappadocian , Samothracian , Aegean , and Crim Tartar . 
In a word , she was a most accomplished young creature and her governess and lady in waiting was the severe Countess Gruffanuff . 
But this lady was no better born than many other ladies who give themselves airs and all sensible people laughed at her absurd pretensions . 
, and Her Majesty gave her a title , and made her nursery governess to the Princess . 
And now I must tell you about the Princess's learning and accomplishments , for which she had such a wonderful character . 
Clever Angelica certainly was , but as IDLE as POSSIBLE . 
But after two or three thousand years of this sport , I suppose Blackstick grew tired of it . 
I might as well shut my incantations up , and allow things to take their natural course . 
What good did my Rose and my Ring do these two women ? None on earth . 
When she was gone , the Court people , who had been awed and silent in her presence , began to speak . 
'Any one rebel against our beloved and august Monarch ! cried the courtiers 'any one resist HIM ? Pooh ! He is invincible , irresistible . 
Of course they said they would . 
Of course they vowed they would die rather than any harm should happen to the Princess . 
'So the poor little Princess is done for , said he 'well , what's done can't be helped . 
Gentlemen , let us go to luncheon ! And one of the courtiers took up the shoe and put it in his pocket . 
And there was an end of Rosalba ! IV . 
He was the husband of that Countess whose picture we have just seen , and as long as they were together they quarrelled from morning till night . 
Now this fellow tried his rudeness once too often , as you shall hear . 
'I tell you , Master and Missis ain't at home to you and he was , as we have said , GOING to slam the door . 
And the postman came and rapped at him , and the vulgarest boy with a letter came and hit him up against the door . 
coming home from a walk that evening , the King said , 'Hullo , my dear ! you have had a new knocker put on the door . 
And when the Prince and Princess chose to become King and Queen , they left their old house , and nobody thought of the porter any more . 
She wore a ragged bit of a cloak , and had only one shoe on . 
'You little wretch , who let you in here ? asked Mrs. Gruffanuff . 
'Div me dat bun , said the little girl , 'me vely hungy . 
'Hungry ! what is that ? asked Princess Angelica , and gave the child the bun . 
'I can dance as well as sing , says the little girl . 
'I can dance , and I can sing , and I can do all sorts of ting . 
'Who was your mother who were your relations , little girl ? said the Queen . 
The little girl said , 'Little lion was my brudder great big lioness my mudder neber heard of any udder . 
And she capered away on her one shoe , and everybody was exceedingly diverted . 
I will take her home , and give her some of my old frocks . 
'Oh , the generous darling ! says Mrs. Gruffanuff . 
'Which I have worn ever so many times , and am quite tired of , Angelica went on 'and she shall be my little maid . 
Not that Angelica ever thought so for this little lady never imagined that anybody in the world could be as pretty , as good , or as clever as herself . 
And the date was added , and the box locked up . 
For a while little Betsinda was a great favourite with the Princess , and she danced , and sang , and made her little rhymes , to amuse her mistress . 
When the Princess was going out of an evening she would say , 'My good Betsinda , you may as well finish what I have begun . 
'Yes , miss , Betsinda would say , and sit down very cheerful , not to FINISH what Angelica began , but to DO it . 
Thus she began to think that there was no young woman in all the world equal to herself , and that no young man was good enough for her . 
Now you begin to perceive that Angelica had faults of her own , and was by no means such a wonder of wonders as people represented Her Royal Highness to be . 
HOW PRINCE GIGLIO BEHAVED HIMSELF And now let us speak about Prince Giglio , the nephew of the reigning monarch of Paflagonia . 
So his tutor had a sinecure . 
I hope you do not imagine that there was any impropriety in the Prince and Princess walking together in the palace garden , and because Giglio kissed Angelica's hand in a polite manner . 
'Don't be afraid , Angelica ! if a dozen bears come , I will kill them rather than they shall hurt you . 
'Oh , you silly creature ! says she 'you are very good , but you are not very wise . 
When they looked at the flowers , Giglio was utterly unacquainted with botany , and had never heard of Linnaeus . 
When the butterflies passed , Giglio knew nothing about them , being as ignorant of entomology as I am of algebra . 
So you see , Angelica , though she liked Giglio pretty well , despised him on account of his ignorance . 
I think she probably valued HER OWN LEARNING rather too much but to think too well of one's self is the fault of people of all ages and both sexes . 
Finally , when nobody else was there , Angelica liked her cousin well enough . 
, that it was supposed he could not live long . 
Now the idea of anything happening to the King struck the artful Prime Minister and the designing old lady in waiting with terror . 
had much better look at HOME . 
to refer them to Shakespeare's pages , where they will read why King John disliked Prince Arthur . 
With the Queen , his royal but weak minded aunt , when Giglio was out of sight he was out of mind . 
While she had her whist and her evening parties , she cared for little else . 
Tomaso Lorenzo painted all the Court , who were delighted with his works for even Countess Gruffanuff looked young and Glumboso good humoured in his pictures . 
'He flatters very much , some people said . 
'Nay ! says Princess Angelica , 'I am above flattery , and I think he did not make my picture handsome enough . 
I can't bear to hear a man of genius unjustly cried down , and I hope my dear papa will make Lorenzo a knight of his Order of the Cucumber . 
One day , Lorenzo showed the Princess a portrait of a young man in armour , with fair hair and the loveliest blue eyes , and an expression at once melancholy and interesting . 
'Dear Signor Lorenzo , who is this ? asked the Princess . 
The remainder were destroyed by the brave Crim Tartar army after an obstinate combat , in which the Crim Tartars suffered severely . 
What a Prince ! thought Angelica so brave so calm looking so young what a hero ! 'He is as accomplished as he is brave , continued the Court Painter . 
'Why did he not marry the poor Princess ? asked Angelica , with a sigh . 
'Because they were FIRST COUSINS , Madam , and the clergy forbid these unions , said the Painter . 
'And , besides , the young Prince had given his royal heart ELSEWHERE . 
'And to whom ? asked Her Royal Highness . 
'I am not at liberty to mention the Princess's name , answered the Painter . 
'But you may tell me the first letter of it , gasped out the Princess . 
'That Your Royal Highness is at liberty to guess , said Lorenzo . 
'Does it begin with a Z ? asked Angelica . 
The Painter said it wasn't a Z then she tried a Y then an X then a W , and went so backwards through almost the whole alphabet . 
O goodness ! the frame contained A LOOKING GLASS ! and Angelica saw her own face ! VII . 
but the most charming of all his pieces was a portrait of the Princess Angelica , which all the Crim Tartar nobles came to see . 
and the artist became Sir Tomaso Lorenzo , K. P. , thenceforth . 
, was little Betsinda the housemaid , who used to do his bedroom and sitting room out , bring him his gruel , and warm his bed . 
And Giglio would heave a sigh , and think , if Angelica were sick , I am sure I should not be very well . 
, saying , 'that the Princess had made the jelly , or the bread sauce , with her own hands , on purpose for Giglio . 
Angelica had her hair in papers in a word , it was evident there was going to be a party . 
'What do I know about fowls and jellies , that you allude to them in that rude way ? says Angelica . 
'Why , didn't didn't you send them , Angelica dear ? says Giglio . 
'The Prince of Crim Tartary ! Giglio said , aghast . 
'Yes , the Prince of Crim Tartary , says Angelica , mocking him . 
'I dare say you never heard of such a country . 
What DID you ever hear of ? You don't know whether Crim Tartary is on the Red Sea or on the Black Sea , I dare say . 
Don't look so surprised at me , sir go and put your best clothes on to receive the Prince , and let me get the drawing room ready . 
Giglio said , 'Oh , Angelica , Angelica , I didn't think this of you . 
'It was my mother's marriage ring , cried Giglio . 
I don't care whose marriage ring it was , cries Angelica . 
'Marry the person who picks it up if she's a woman you shan't marry ME . 
And give me back MY ring . 
I've no patience with people who boast about the things they give away ! I know who'll give me much finer things than you ever gave me . 
The Queen , Giglio's mother , quite an ordinary looking person , was admired immensely whilst she wore this ring , and her husband was frantic when she was ill . 
'Yes , says Angelica , going on in her foolish ungrateful way . 
I know who'll give me much finer things than your beggarly little pearl nonsense . 
'And , upon my conscience , you you squint a little . 
, and was carrying it to his mistress , she thought he looked like a little cupid . 
He gave the ring to her it was a trumpery little thing enough , but too small for any of her old knuckles , so she put it into her pocket . 
However , praise is welcome from the ugliest of men or boys , and Gruffanuff , bidding the boy hold up her train , walked on in high good humour . 
The guards saluted her with peculiar respect . 
Captain Hedzoff , in the anteroom , said , 'My dear madam , you look like an angel today . 
Princess Angelica sat at their feet , and behind the King's chair stood Prince Giglio , looking very savage . 
'Your R. H. is welcome in any dress , says the King . 
'Glumboso , a chair for His Royal Highness . 
'Any dress His Royal Highness wears IS a Court dress , says Princess Angelica , smiling graciously . 
'Ah ! but you should see my other clothes , said the Prince . 
'I should have had them on , but that stupid carrier has not brought them . 
Who's that laughing ? It was Giglio laughing . 
'And who are you ? says Prince Bulbo , very fiercely . 
'My father was King of this country , and I am his only son , Prince ! replies Giglio , with equal haughtiness . 
When he had entered the room , he was observed to carry a rose in his hand , which fell out of it as he tumbled . 
'My rose ! my rose ! cried Bulbo and his chamberlain dashed forwards and picked it up , and gave it to the Prince , who put it in his waistcoat . 
Then people wondered why they had laughed there was nothing particularly ridiculous in him . 
He was rather short , rather stout , rather red haired , but , in fine , for a Prince , not so bad . 
So they sat and talked , the Royal personages together , the Crim Tartar officers with those of Paflagonia Giglio very comfortable with Gruffanuff behind the throne . 
He looked at her with such tender eyes , that her heart was all in a flutter . 
'Oh , dear Prince , she said , 'how could you speak so haughtily in presence of Their Majesties ? I protest I thought I should have fainted . 
'I should have caught you in my arms , said Giglio , looking raptures . 
'Why were you so cruel to Prince Bulbo , dear Prince ? says Gruff . 
'Because I hate him , says Gil . 
'You are jealous of him , and still love poor Angelica , cries Gruffanuff , putting her handkerchief to her eyes . 
'I did , but I love her no more ! Giglio cried . 
'I despise her ! Were she heiress to twenty thousand thrones , I would despise her and scorn her . 
But why speak of thrones ? I have lost mine . 
I am too weak to recover it I am alone , and have no friend . 
'Oh , say not so , dear Prince ! says Gruffanuff . 
'It is time to dress for dinner . 
Giglio , show Prince Bulbo to his room . 
Prince , if your clothes have not come , we shall be very happy to see you as you are . 
As for Giglio , he never left Madam Gruffanuff all this time , but stood with her in the embrasure of a window , paying her compliments . 
At length the Groom of the Chambers announced His Royal Highness the Prince of Crim Tartary ! and the noble company went into the royal dining room . 
You may be sure they had a very good dinner let every boy or girl think of what he or she likes best , and fancy it on the table . 
Here a very pretty game may be played by all the children saying what they like best for dinner . 
Giglio only burst out a laughing as the Crimean Prince wiped his shirt front and face with his scented pocket handkerchief . 
He did not make Prince Bulbo any apology . 
When the Prince looked at him , Giglio would not look that way . 
When Prince Bulbo said , 'Prince Giglio , may I have the honour of taking a glass of wine with you ? Giglio WOULDN'T answer . 
After dinner , His Majesty and the Queen went to sleep in their arm chairs . 
Booh , the nasty pig ! But as he lay there stretched on the pink satin sofa , Angelica still persisted in thinking him the most beautiful of human beings . 
'What is it you are writing , you charming Gruffy ? says Giglio , who was lolling on the sofa , by the writing table . 
'Only an order for you to sign , dear Prince , for giving coals and blankets to the poor , this cold weather . 
Look ! the King and Queen are both asleep , and your Royal Highness's order will do . 
, and I don't know what signatures besides , against the day when she should be Queen , forsooth ! IX . 
HOW BETSINDA GOT THE WARMING PAN Little Betsinda came in to put Gruffanuff's hair in papers and the Countess was so pleased , that , for a wonder , she complimented Betsinda . 
'Betsinda ! she said , 'you dressed my hair very nicely today I promised you a little present . 
Here are five sh no , here is a pretty little ring , that I picked that I have had some time . 
And she gave Betsinda the ring she had picked up in the court . 
'It's like the ring the Princess used to wear , says the maid . 
'No such thing , says Gruffanuff , 'I have had it this ever so long . 
Mind I shall want my cup of tea at five o'clock in the morning . 
'I suppose I had best warm both the young gentlemen's beds , Ma'am , says Betsinda . 
Gruffanuff , for reply , said , 'Hau au ho ! Grauhawhoo ! Hong hrho ! In fact , she was snoring sound asleep . 
Her room , you know , is next to the King and Queen , and the Princess is next to them . 
So pretty Betsinda went away for the coals to the kitchen , and filled the royal warming pan . 
She heard the young gentlemen playing at billiards as she went upstairs first to Prince Giglio's bed , which she warmed , and then to Prince Bulbo's room . 
Thou nymph of beauty , take , take this young heart . 
A truer never did itself sustain within a soldier's waistcoat . 
'Go away , Your Royal Highness , and go to bed , please , said Betsinda , with the warming pan . 
Prince Bulbo made such a noise that Prince Giglio , who heard him from the next room , came in to see what was the matter . 
Fancy Betsinda's condition , who had been in love with the Prince ever since she first saw him in the palace garden , when she was quite a little child . 
Thou art the real Angelica , because thou art really angelic . 
'Oh , Prince ! I am but a poor chambermaid , says Betsinda , looking , however , very much pleased . 
'Didst thou not tend me in my sickness , when all forsook me ? continues Giglio . 
'You great big blubbering booby , tearing your hair in the corner there of course you will give me satisfaction for insulting Betsinda . 
YOU dare to kneel down at Princess Giglio's knees and kiss her hand ! 'She's not Princess Giglio ! roars out Bulbo . 
'She shall be Princess Bulbo , no other shall be Princess Bulbo . 
'You are engaged to my cousin ! bellows out Giglio . 
'I hate your cousin , says Bulbo . 
'You shall give me satisfaction for insulting her ! cries Giglio in a fury . 
'I'll blow your brains out . 
'I'll knock your head off . 
'I'll send a friend to you in the morning . 
'I'll send a bullet into you in the afternoon . 
What should he see on the landing but His Majesty talking to Betsinda , whom he called by all sorts of fond names . 
His Majesty had heard a row in the building , so he stated , and smelling something burning , had come out to see what the matter was . 
'It's the young gentlemen smoking , perhaps , sir , says Betsinda . 
, 'never mind the young men ! Turn thy eyes on a middle aged autocrat , who has been considered not ill looking in his time . 
'Oh , sir ! what will Her Majesty say ? cries Betsinda . 
'Her Majesty ! laughs the monarch . 
'Ho ! my captain of the guards ! His Majesty exclaimed , stamping his royal feet with rage . 
O piteous spectacle ! the King's nose was bent quite crooked by the blow of Prince Giglio ! His Majesty ground his teeth with rage . 
'Hedzoff , he said , taking a death warrant out of his dressing gown pocket , 'Hedzoff , good Hedzoff , seize upon the Prince . 
Thou'lt find him in his chamber two pair up . 
Captain Hedzoff was very much affected , having a sincere love for Giglio . 
It was Gruffanuff , who had come out in her dressing gown when she heard the noise . 
'The King said you were to hang the Prince . 
Well , hang the Prince . 
'I don't understand you , says Hedzoff , who was not a very clever man . 
'You Gaby ! he didn't say WHICH Prince , says Gruffanuff . 
'No he didn't say which , certainly , said Hedzoff . 
'Well then , take Bulbo , and hang HIM ! When Captain Hedzoff heard this , he began to dance about for joy . 
'Obedience is a soldier's honour , says he . 
'Prince Bulbo's head will do capitally , and he went to arrest the Prince the very first thing next morning . 
He knocked at the door . 
'Who's there ? says Bulbo . 
'Captain Hedzoff ? Step in , pray , my good Captain I'm delighted to see you I have been expecting you . 
'Have you ? says Hedzoff . 
'Sleibootz , my Chamberlain , will act for me , says the Prince . 
'I beg Your Royal Highness's pardon , but you will have to act for yourself , and it's a pity to wake Baron Sleibootz . 
The Prince Bulbo still seemed to take the matter very coolly . 
'Of course , Captain , says he , 'you are come about that affair with Prince Giglio ? 'Precisely , says Hedzoff , 'that affair of Prince Giglio . 
'Is it to be pistols , or swords , Captain ? asks Bulbo . 
'I'm a pretty good hand with both , and I'll do for Prince Giglio as sure as my name is My Royal Highness Prince Bulbo . 
'There's some mistake , my Lord , says the Captain . 
'The business is done with AXES among us . 
'Axes ? That's sharp work , says Bulbo . 
'Call my Chamberlain , he'll be my second , and in ten minutes , I flatter myself , you'll see Master Giglio's head off his impertinent shoulders . 
I'm hungry for his blood Hoooo , aw ! and he looked as savage as an ogre . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , but by this warrant I am to take you prisoner , and hand you over to to the executioner . 
The King , who happened to be talking to Glumboso , saw him pass , and took a pinch of snuff and said , 'So much for Giglio . 
Now let's go to breakfast . 
The Captain of the Guard handed over his prisoner to the Sheriff , with the fatal order , 'AT SIGHT CUT OFF THE BEARER'S HEAD . 
'It's a mistake , says Bulbo , who did not seem to understand the business in the least . 
'Poo poo pooh , says the Sheriff . 
Jack Ketch ! And poor Bulbo was led to the scaffold , where an executioner with a block and a tremendous axe was always ready in case he should be wanted . 
But we must now revert to Giglio and Betsinda . 
, and indeed having forgotten all about the past evening , except that Betsinda was the most lovely of beings . 
'Well , dear Giglio , says Gruff . 
'Well , dear Gruffy , says Giglio , only HE was quite satirical . 
'I have been thinking , darling , what you must do in this scrape . 
You must fly the country for a while . 
'What scrape ? fly the country ? Never without her I love , Countess , says Giglio . 
'No , she will accompany you , dear Prince , she says , in her most coaxing accents . 
'First , we must get the jewels belonging to our royal parents . 
and those of her and his present Majesty . 
'Will she ? says Giglio . 
, all belonging to you , for he took it out of your royal father's room on the day of his death . 
With this we will fly . 
'WE will fly ? says Giglio . 
'Yes , you and your bride your affianced love your Gruffy ! says the Countess , with a languishing leer . 
'YOU my bride ! says Giglio . 
'You , you hideous old woman ! 'Oh , you you wretch ! didn't you give me this paper promising marriage ? cries Gruff . 
'Get away , you old goose ! I love Betsinda , and Betsinda only ! And in a fit of terror he ran from her as quickly as he could . 
He may look very long before finding HER , I warrant . 
He little knows that Miss Betsinda is Is what ? Now , you shall hear . 
Poor Betsinda got up at five in winter's morning to bring her cruel mistress her tea and instead of finding her in a good humour , found Gruffy as cross as two sticks . 
The Countess boxed Betsinda's ears half a dozen times whilst she was dressing but as poor little Betsinda was used to this kind of treatment , she did not feel any special alarm . 
'And now , says she , 'when Her Majesty rings her bell twice , I'll trouble you , miss , to attend . 
So when the Queen's bell rang twice , Betsinda came to Her Majesty and made a pretty little curtsey . 
The Queen , the Princess , and Gruffanuff were all three in the room . 
As soon as they saw her they began , 'You wretch ! says the Queen . 
'You little vulgar thing ! says the Princess . 
'You beast ! says Gruffanuff . 
'Get out of my sight ! says the Queen . 
'Go away with you , do ! says the Princess . 
'Quit the premises ! says Gruffanuff . 
'Alas ! and woe is me ! very lamentable events had occurred to Betsinda that morning , and all in consequence of that fatal warming pan business of the previous night . 
dismissed me from my post of First Lord . 
'First Lord of the Toothpick and Joint Keeper of the Snuffbox ? I mind me ! Thou heldest these posts under our royal Sire . 
'The House of Broccoli should remain faithful to us , she said 'they were ever welcome at our Court . 
And so she went on enumerating quite a list of the nobility and gentry of Crim Tartary , so admirably had Her Majesty profited by her studies while in exile . 
And so in about a year they were ready to move . 
But we must all do our duty in our respective stations , so the Queen resigned herself to perform hers . 
We testify to our own nobility in acknowledging yours . 
The bold Hogginarmo bends the knee to the first of the aristocracy of his country . 
Rosalba said , 'The bold Count of Hogginarmo was uncommonly kind . 
But she felt afraid of him , even while he was kneeling , and his eyes scowled at her from between his whiskers , which grew up to them . 
'The first Count of the Empire , madam , he went on , 'salutes the Sovereign . 
Poor Queen ! Hogginarmo , her conqueror , would not condescend to see her . 
'Get a horse van ! he said to his grooms , 'clap the hussy into it , and send her , with my compliments , to His Majesty King Padella . 
And Hogginarmo promised speedily to pay his humble homage at his august master's throne , of which he begged leave to be counted the most loyal and constant defender . 
Such a WARY old BIRD as King Padella was not to be caught by Master Hogginarmo's CHAFF and we shall hear presently how the tyrant treated his upstart vassal . 
No , no depend on's , two such rogues do not trust one another . 
At last , after she had been kept in this place EVER SO LONG , the door of the dungeon opened , and the terrible KING PADELLA came in . 
But what he said and did must be reserved for another chapter , as we must now back to Prince Giglio . 
, put his head out of the window , and said , 'Nice weather for travelling outside ! I wish you a pleasant journey , my dear . 
The poor woman coughed very much , and Giglio pitied her . 
'I will give up my place to her , says he , 'rather than she should travel in the cold air with that horrid cough . 
On which the vulgar traveller said , 'YOU'D keep her warm , I am sure , if it's a MUFF she wants . 
On which Giglio pulled his nose , boxed his ears , hit him in the eye , and gave this vulgar person a warning never to call him MUFF again . 
Then he sprang up gaily on to the roof of the diligence , and made himself very comfortable in the straw . 
The vulgar traveller got down only at the next station , and Giglio took his place again , and talked to the person next to him . 
She appeared to be a most agreeable , well informed , and entertaining female . 
You have nothing to do but to improve yourself . 
Who knows but that you may find use for your knowledge some day ? When when you may be wanted at home , as some people may be . 
'Good heavens , madam ! says he , 'do you know me ? 'I know a number of funny things , says the lady . 
'I have been at some people's christenings , and turned away from other folks' doors . 
I have seen some people spoilt by good fortune , and others , as I hope , improved by hardship . 
I advise you to stay at the town where the coach stops for the night . 
Stay there and study , and remember your old friend to whom you were kind . 
'And who is my old friend ? asked Giglio . 
'To the Fairy Blackstick , says the lady , flying out of the window . 
And Giglio thought he had been dreaming . 
But there was the bag which Blackstick had given him lying on his lap and when he came to the town he took it in his hand and went into the inn . 
There was no bell , so he went and bawled out for water on the top of the stairs . 
'What are you a hollering and a bellaring for here , young man ? says she . 
'There's no warm water no servants my boots are not even cleaned . 
'He , he ! Clean 'em yourself , says the landlady . 
'You young students give yourselves pretty airs . 
I never heard such impudence . 
'I'll quit the house this instant , says Giglio . 
'The sooner the better , young man . 
Pay your bill and be off . 
All my rooms is wanted for gentlefolks , and not for such as you . 
'You may well keep the Bear Inn , said Giglio . 
'You should have yourself painted as the sign . 
The landlady of the Bear went away GROWLING . 
And Giglio returned to his room , where the first thing he saw was the fairy bag lying on the table , which seemed to give a little hop as he came in . 
'I hope it has some breakfast in it , says Giglio , 'for I have only a very little money left . 
So Giglio laughed and blacked his boots , and put back the brush and the bottle into the bag . 
When he had done dressing himself , the bag gave another little hop , and he went to it and took out . 
A tablecloth and a napkin . 
A sugar basin full of the best loaf sugar . 
Two forks , two teaspoons , two knives , and a pair of sugar tongs , and a butter knife all marked G. , , . 
A teacup , saucer , and slop basin . 
A jug full of delicious cream . 
A canister with black tea and green . 
A large tea urn and boiling water . 
A saucepan , containing three eggs nicely done . 
A quarter of a pound of best Epping butter . 
I forgot to say that this celebrated university town was called Bosforo . 
When he opened his trunk , which the day before he had filled with his best clothes , he found it contained only books . 
And in the first of them which he opened there was written Clothes for the back , books for the head Read and remember them when they are read . 
So he sat down and worked away , very , very hard for a whole year , during which 'Mr . 
Giles' was quite an example to all the students in the University of Bosforo . 
He never got into any riots or disturbances . 
The Professors all spoke well of him , and the students liked him too so that , when at examination , he took all the prizes , viz . 
, the following 'ROMANTIC CIRCUMSTANCE . 
One of the most extraordinary adventures that we have ever heard has set the neighbouring country of Crim Tartary in a state of great excitement . 
where she had been eaten up by those ferocious lions , the last pair of which were captured some time since , and brought to the Tower , after killing several hundred persons . 
But her death seemed to be certain . 
And these interesting relics of an innocent little creature were carried home and kept by their finder , the Baron Spinachi , formerly an officer in Cavolfiore's household . 
Her history MAY be authentic , is certainly most romantic . 
'She did not give satisfaction , and was dismissed , carrying with her , certainly , part of a mantle and a shoe , which she had on when first found . 
According to her statement she quitted Blombodinga about a year ago , since which time she has been with the Spinachi family . 
'Ha ! what is this ? Giglio went on , reading 'SECOND EDITION , EXPRESS . 
We hear that the troop under Baron Spinachi has been surrounded , and utterly routed , by General Count Hogginarmo , and the soidisant Princess is sent a prisoner to the capital . 
Yesterday , at the Schools , the distinguished young student , Mr. Giles , read a Latin oration , and was complimented by the Chancellor of Bosforo , Dr . 
Prugnaro , with the highest University honour the wooden spoon . 
'Never mind that stuff , says GILES , greatly disturbed . 
'Come home with me , my friends . 
Gallant Smith ! intrepid Jones ! friends of my studies partakers of my academic toils I have that to tell which shall astonish your honest minds . 
'Go it , old boy ! cries the impetuous Smith . 
'Talk away , my buck ! says Jones , a lively fellow . 
With an air of indescribable dignity , Giglio checked their natural , but no more seemly , familiarity . 
'Jones , Smith , my good friends , said the PRINCE , 'disguise is henceforth useless I am no more the humble student Giles , I am the descendant of a royal line . 
'Atavis edite regibus , I know , old co cried Jones . 
He was going to say old cock , but a flash from THE ROYAL EYE again awed him . 
'Friends , continued the Prince , 'I am that Giglio , I am , in fact , Paflagonia . 
Rise , Smith , and kneel not in the public street . 
I should espouse his daughter , young Angelica we two indeed should reign in Paflagonia . 
Twas then I turned my eyes upon Betsinda Rosalba , as she now is . 
And I saw in her the blushing sum of all perfection the pink of maiden modesty the nymph that my fond heart had ever woo'd in dreams , etc . 
On his writing table was his bag , grown so long that the Prince could not help remarking it . 
The books on Giglio's shelves were all gone . 
Where there had been some great dictionaries , Giglio's friends found two pairs of jack boots labelled , 'Lieutenant Smith , Jones , Esq . 
, which fitted them to a nicety . 
Besides , there were helmets , back and breast plates , swords , etc . 
, never thought of recognising the young Prince and his friends . 
They got horses at a livery stable keeper's , and never drew bridle until they reached the last town on the frontier before you come to Crim Tartary . 
Here , as their animals were tired , and the cavaliers hungry , they stopped and refreshed at an hostel . 
Ha , Sergeant , an' my memory serves me right , we have had many a bout at singlestick . 
'I' faith , we have , a many , good my Lord , says the Sergeant . 
'Tell me , what means this mighty armament , continued His Royal Highness from the balcony , 'and whither march my Paflagonians ? Hedzoff's head fell . 
'My Lord , he said , 'we march as the allies of great Padella , Crim Tartary's monarch . 
'Crim Tartary's usurper , gallant Hedzoff ! Crim Tartary's grim tyrant , honest Hedzoff ! said the Prince , on the balcony , quite sarcastically . 
'A soldier , Prince , must needs obey his orders mine are to help His Majesty Padella . 
to seize wherever I should light upon him . 
'First catch your hare ! ha , Hedzoff ! exclaimed His Royal Highness . 
On the body of GIGLIO , whilome Prince of Paflagonia' Hedzoff went on , with indescribable emotion . 
'My Prince , give up your sword without ado . 
It lasted for three days and three nights , during which not a single person who heard him was tired , or remarked the difference between daylight and dark . 
The soldiers only cheering tremendously , when occasionally , once in nine hours , the Prince paused to suck an orange , which Jones took out of the bag . 
'We will wait here , good friend , to beat the Prince , His Majesty said , 'and THEN will make his royal father wince . 
All night long the King spent in advising how he should get rid of this obdurate young creature . 
Adjoining his castle was an amphitheatre where the Prince indulged in bull baiting , rat hunting , and other ferocious sports . 
But Count Hogginarmo , seated by His Majesty , roared out 'Hurray ! Now for it ! Soo soo soo ! that nobleman being uncommonly angry still at Rosalba's refusal of him . 
King Padella was immensely astonished . 
The Count Hogginarmo was extremely disgusted . 
'Pooh ! the Count cried . 
'Gammon ! exclaimed his Lordship . 
These lions are tame beasts come from Wombwell's or Astley's . 
It is a shame to put people off in this way . 
I believe they are little boys dressed up in door mats . 
They are no lions at all . 
The haughty Hogginarmo laid down his opera glass , and looked scowling round at the King and his attendants . 
'Touch me not , dogs ! he said , 'or by St . 
Let them both come on , then ! And opening a grating of the box , he jumped lightly down into the circus . 
'NO ! roared the King . 
'Let the beef eaters go down and chop her into small pieces . 
If the lions defend her , let the archers shoot them to death . 
That hussy shall die in tortures ! 'A a ah ! cried the crowd . 
'My Lordship , ha ! said Crim Tartary , frowning terrifically . 
'That title soundeth strange in the anointed ears of a crowned King . 
'Hereby summon the false traitor , Padella , calling himself King of Crim Tartary The King's curses were dreadful . 
'Go on , Elephant and Castle ! said the intrepid Hedzoff . 
'Is that all ? said Padella , with the terrific calm of concentrated fury . 
'That , sir , is all my royal master's message . 
'And what says my good brother of Paflagonia , my dear son's father in law , to this rubbish ? asked the King . 
'The King's uncle hath been deprived of the crown he unjustly wore , said Hedzoff gravely . 
'He and his axminister , Glumboso , are now in prison waiting the sentence of my royal master . 
After the battle of Bombardaro 'Of what ? asked the surprised Padella . 
'Ah ! my boy , my boy , my Bulbo was no traitor ! cried Padella . 
'Prince Bulbo , far from coming over to us , ran away , sir but I caught him . 
The Prince is a prisoner in our army , and the most terrific tortures await him if a hair of the Princess Rosalba's head is injured . 
'Do they ? exclaimed the furious Padella , who was now perfectly LIVID with rage . 
Do they indeed ? So much the worse for Bulbo . 
I've twenty sons as lovely each as Bulbo . 
Not one but is as fit to reign as Bulbo . 
Ho ! tortures , rack men , executioners light up the fires and make the pincers hot ! get lots of boiling lead ! Bring out ROSALBA ! XVI . 
His Majesty's agitation was not appeased by the news that was brought by his ambassador . 
'The brutal ruthless ruffian royal wretch ! Giglio exclaimed . 
'As England's poesy has well remarked , The man that lays his hand upon a woman , save in the way of kindness , is a villain . 
Ha , Hedzoff ! 'That he is , your Majesty , said the attendant . 
I told him you would hold Prince Bulbo answerable . 
He only said that he had twenty sons as good as Bulbo , and forthwith he bade the ruthless executioners proceed . 
'O cruel father O unhappy son ! cried the King . 
'Go , some of you , and bring Prince Bulbo hither . 
Bulbo was brought in chains , looking very uncomfortable . 
, 'thy brutal father has condemned Rosalba p p p ut her to death , P p p prince Bulbo ! 'What , killed Betsinda ! Boo hoo hoo , cried out Bulbo . 
'Betsinda ! pretty Betsinda ! dear Betsinda ! She was the dearest little girl in the world . 
Bulbo , quite unconsciously , and meaning for the best , offered to come and sit with His Majesty , and smoke a cigar with him , and console him . 
The ROYAL KINDNESS supplied Bulbo with a cigar he had not had one , he said , since he was taken prisoner . 
So poor Bulbo was led out , Hedzoff trying to console him , by pointing out that if he had won the battle of Bombardaro , he might have hanged Prince Giglio . 
The Undertaker came and measured him for the handsomest coffin which money could buy even this didn't console Bulbo . 
The Barber came in at night , and offered to shave him for the next day . 
But looking out of the window was one thing , and jumping another and the town clock struck seven . 
, and he shook himself , and said he didn't mind about dressing , or having any breakfast , thank you and he saw the soldiers who had come for him . 
and helped the Princess , Bulbo , for his part , rushed up and kissed the lion . 
He flung his arms round the forest monarch he hugged him , and laughed and cried for joy . 
'Oh , you darling old beast , oh , how glad I am to see you , and the dear , dear Bets that is , Rosalba . 
'What , is it you ? poor Bulbo ! said the Queen . 
Oh , how glad I am to see you , and she gave him her hand to kiss . 
King Giglio slapped him most kindly on the back , and said , 'Bulbo , my boy , I am delighted , for your sake , that Her Majesty has arrived . 
'So am I , said Bulbo 'and YOU KNOW WHY . 
Captain Hedzoff here came up . 
'Sire , it is half past eight shall we proceed with the execution ? 'Execution ! what for ? asked Bulbo . 
King Giglio's advance guard , you may be sure , kept that monarch acquainted with the enemy's dealings , and he was in nowise disconcerted . 
Poor Bulbo was taken into favour again , and allowed to go quite free now . 
He had new clothes given him , was called 'My good cousin' by His Majesty , and was treated with the greatest distinction by everybody . 
But it was easy to see he was very melancholy . 
The fact is , the sight of Betsinda , who looked perfectly lovely in an elegant new dress , set poor Bulbo frantic in love with her again . 
And he never thought about Angelica , now Princess Bulbo , whom he had left at home , and who , as we know , did not care much about him . 
'Yes , says the Fairy Blackstick , who had come to see the young people , and who had very likely certain plans regarding them . 
'Rosalba needs no ring , I am sure , says Giglio , with a low bow . 
'She is beautiful enough , in my eyes , without any enchanted aid . 
'Oh , sir ! said Rosalba . 
'Take off the ring and try , said the King , and resolutely drew the ring off her finger . 
The Princess Rosalba makes it a present to you . 
'Oh no , by no means ! says the Maid of Honour . 
You , Rosalba , would have been so flattered , that your little head might have been turned like Angelica's , who thought herself too good for Giglio . 
'As if anybody could be good enough for HIM , cried Rosalba . 
'Oh , you , you darling ! says Giglio . 
'Oh , mercy ! says Rosalba , and fainted of course . 
In a word , the overthrow of King Padella's army was so complete , that if they had been Russians you could not have wished them to be more utterly smashed and confounded . 
Hedzoff coming up , and finding Punchikoff down , as you may imagine , very speedily disposed of HIM . 
Meanwhile King Padella was scampering off as hard as his horse could lay legs to ground . 
At the ill success of his blow the Crim Tartar monarch was justly irritated . 
Your Majesty won't , I suppose , be so mean as to strike a poor fellow who can't strike again ? The justice of Padella's remark struck the magnanimous Giglio . 
'Do you yield yourself a prisoner , Padella ? says he . 
'Of course I do , says Padella . 
By this time King Giglio's aides de camp had come up , whom His Majesty ordered to bind the prisoner . 
So Bulbo went back to the ball room and the wretched Padella ate his solitary supper in silence and tears . 
All was now joy in King Giglio's circle . 
Dancing , feasting , fun , illuminations , and jollifications of all sorts ensued . 
The people through whose villages they passed were ordered to illuminate their cottages at night , and scatter flowers on the roads during the day . 
Hedzoff was made a Duke and a FieldMarshal . 
Smith and Jones were promoted to be Earls the Crim Tartar Order of the Pumpkin and the Paflagonian decoration of the Cucumber were freely distributed by their Majesties to the army . 
Queen Rosalba wore the Paflagonian Ribbon of the Cucumber across her riding habit , whilst King Giglio never appeared without the grand Cordon of the Pumpkin . 
came and conducted her to the apartments prepared for her whilst King Giglio , surrounded by his gentlemen , withdrew to his own Royal quarters . 
Duke Hedzoff carried the message , and gave instructions to have the Royal Castle splendidly refurnished and painted afresh . 
The Duke seized Glumboso , the Ex Prime Minister , and made him refund that considerable sum of money which the old scoundrel had secreted out of the late King's treasure . 
, no doubt they exhibited a repentance for their past misdeeds , usurpations , and private and public crimes . 
As for Glumboso , that rogue was sent to the galleys , and never had an opportunity to steal any more . 
'A good King , my dear Fairy ! cries Rosalba . 
'Methinks she rather presumes upon her position . 
'Hush ! dear Giglio , says Rosalba . 
'You know Blackstick has been very kind to us , and we must not offend her . 
He was eager to see his darling Angelica . 
He thought there never was such a charming being . 
Blackstick did not tell him it was the possession of the magic rose that made Angelica so lovely in his eyes . 
You could hear the joy bells ringing in the capital , and the guns which the citizens were firing off in honour of their Majesties . 
She ogled the King in such a manner that His Majesty burst out laughing . 
'Eleven o'clock ! cries Giglio , as the great Cathedral bell of Blombodinga tolled that hour . 
'Gentlemen and ladies , we must be starting . 
'And then I shall be the happiest man in my dominions , cries Giglio , with an elegant bow to the blushing Rosalba . 
and that I am about to become the enraptured bride of my adored Giglio ! continues Gruffanuff . 
'Lend me a smelling bottle , somebody . 
I certainly shall faint with joy . 
'YOU my bride ? roars out Giglio . 
'YOU marry my Prince ? cried poor little Rosalba . 
'Pooh ! Nonsense ! The woman's mad ! exclaims the King . 
And all the courtiers exhibited by their countenances and expressions , marks of surprise , or ridicule , or incredulity , or wonder . 
'I should like to know who else is going to be married , if I am not ? shrieks out Gruffanuff . 
'H'm , says the Archbishop , 'the document is certainly a a document . 
'Phoo ! says the Lord Chancellor , 'the signature is not in His Majesty's handwriting . 
Indeed , since his studies at Bosforo , Giglio had made an immense improvement in caligraphy . 
'Is it your handwriting , Giglio ? cries the Fairy Blackstick , with an awful severity of countenance . 
'Y y y es , poor Giglio gasps out , 'I had quite forgotten the confounded paper she can't mean to hold me by it . 
You old wretch , what will you take to let me off ? Help the Queen , some one Her Majesty has fainted . 
'Chop her head off ! exclaim the impetuous 'Smother the old witch ! Hedzoff , the ardent Smith , and 'Pitch her into the river ! the faithful Jones . 
But Gruffanuff flung her arms round the Archbishop's neck , and bellowed out , 'Justice , justice , my Lord Chancellor ! so loudly , that her piercing shrieks caused everybody to pause . 
'I will have that and you too ! says Gruffanuff . 
'Let us throw the crown jewels into the bargain , gasps out Giglio . 
'I will wear them by my Giglio's side ! says Gruffanuff . 
'Will half , three quarters , five sixths , nineteen twentieths , of my kingdom do , Countess ? asks the trembling monarch . 
'What were all Europe to me without YOU , my Giglio ? cries Gruff , kissing his hand . 
'I won't , I can't , I shan't , I'll resign the crown first , shouts Giglio , tearing away his hand but Gruff clung to it . 
'I have a competency , my love , she says , 'and with thee and a cottage thy Barbara will be happy . 
Giglio was half mad with rage by this time . 
'I will not marry her , says he . 
'Oh , Fairy , Fairy , give me counsel ? And as he spoke he looked wildly round at the severe face of the Fairy Blackstick . 
He quailed under the brightness of her eyes he felt that there was no escape for him from that awful inquisition . 
Get up , Countess , and let us be married I can keep my word , but I can die afterwards . 
'Oh , dear Giglio , cries Gruffanuff , skipping up , 'I knew , I knew I could trust thee I knew that my Prince was the soul of honour . 
Phoo ! the horrid old wretch ! XIX . 
I will see , when I get home , whether I cannot make the new Queen some handsome presents . 
The Crim Tartary crown diamonds are uncommonly fine , and I shall never have any use for them . 
I will live and die unmarried like Queen Elizabeth , and , of course , I shall leave my crown to Giglio when I quit this world . 
As for honest Bulbo , he was blubbering in the most pathetic manner , quite overcome by Rosalba's misfortune . 
The coach moved on , and , being a fairy coach , soon came up with the bridal procession . 
As for Blackstick , she , according to her custom , had flown out of the coach window in some inscrutable manner , and was now standing at the palace door . 
Giglio came up the steps with his horrible bride on his arm , looking as pale as if he was going to execution . 
He only frowned at the Fairy Blackstick he was angry with her , and thought she came to insult his misery . 
'Get out of the way , pray , says Gruffanuff haughtily . 
'I wonder why you are always poking your nose into other people's affairs ? 'Are you determined to make this poor young man unhappy ? says Blackstick . 
'To marry him , yes ! What business is it of yours ? Pray , madam , don't say you to a Queen , cries Gruffanuff . 
'You won't take the money he offered you ? 'No . 
'You won't let him off his bargain , though you know you cheated him when you made him sign the paper ? 'Impudence ! Policemen , remove this woman ! cries Gruffanuff . 
And the policemen were rushing forward , but with a wave of her wand the Fairy struck them all like so many statues in their places . 
'You won't take anything in exchange for your bond , Mrs. Gruffanuff , cries the Fairy , with awful severity . 
'I speak for the last time . 
'No ! shrieks Gruffanuff , stamping with her foot . 
As she touched it , the brass nose seemed to elongate , the open mouth opened still wider , and uttered a roar which made everybody start . 
and here ends the Fireside Pantomime . 
