This etext was created by Judith Boss , Omaha , Nebraska . 
His laugh is not infectious but when he cries , I can hardly refrain from crying , too . 
Every one says he is like my eldest brother . 
I am afraid to believe it . 
It is too good to be true . 
My brother's chief characteristic was neither egotism nor self renunciation , but a strict mean between the two . 
He never sacrificed himself for any one else but not only always avoided injuring others , but also interfering with them . 
He kept his happiness and his sufferings entirely to himself . 
Ilya , the third , has never been ill in his life broad boned , white and pink , radiant , bad at lessons . 
Is always thinking about what he is told not to think about . 
Hot tempered and violent , wants to fight at once but is also tender hearted and very sensitive . 
Sensuous fond of eating and lying still doing nothing . 
Tanya Tatyana is eight years old . 
Every one says that she is like Sonya , and I believe them , although I am pleased about that , too I believe it only because it is obvious . 
If she had been Adam's eldest daughter and he had had no other children afterward , she would have passed a wretched childhood . 
The greatest pleasure that she has is to look after children . 
Handsome , dexterous , good memory , graceful . 
Any clothes fit him as if they had been made for him . 
Everything that others do , he does very skilfully and well . 
Does not understand much yet . 
The fifth , Masha Mary is two years old , the one whose birth nearly cost Sonya her life . 
A weak and sickly child . 
Body white as milk , curly white hair big , queer blue eyes , queer by reason of their deep , serious expression . 
She will be one of the riddles she will suffer , she will seek and find nothing , will always be seeking what is least attainable . 
The sixth , Peter , is a giant , a huge , delightful baby in a mob cap , turns out his elbows , strives eagerly after something . 
My wife falls into an ecstasy of agitation and emotion when she holds him in her arms but I am completely at a loss to understand . 
I know that he has a great store of physical energy , but whether there is any purpose for which the store is wanted I do not know . 
That is why I do not care for children under two or three I don't understand . 
This letter was written in , when I was six years old . 
My recollections date from about that time . 
I can remember a few things before . 
FAMILY LIFE IN THE COUNTRY FROM my earliest childhood until the family moved into Moscow that was in all my life was spent , almost without a break , at Yasnaya Polyana . 
This is how we live . 
The chief personage in the house is my mother . 
One can be naughty with her , though she is sometimes angry and punishes us . 
She knows more about everything than anybody else . 
Papa is the cleverest man in the world . 
There is no being naughty with HIM . 
When he is up in his study working , one is not allowed to make a noise , and nobody may go into his room . 
What he does when he is at work , none of us know . 
Later on , when I had learned to read , I was told that papa was a writer . 
This was how I learned . 
I was very pleased with some lines of poetry one day , and asked my mother who wrote them . 
She told me they were written by Pushkin , and Pushkin was a great writer . 
I was vexed at my father not being one , too . 
Then my mother said that my father was also a well known writer , and I was very glad indeed . 
At the dinner table papa sits opposite mama and has his own round silver spoon . 
When there is jelly for pudding , papa says it is good for gluing paper boxes we run off to get some paper , and papa makes it into boxes . 
Mama is angry , but he is not afraid of her either . 
We have the gayest times imaginable with him now and then . 
He can ride a horse better and run faster than anybody else , and there is no one in the world so strong as he is . 
He hardly ever punishes us , but when he looks me in the eyes he knows everything that I think , and I am frightened . 
You can tell stories to mama , but not to papa , because he will see through you at once . 
Besides papa and mama , there was also Aunt Tatyana Alexandrovna Yergolsky . 
In her room she had a big eikon with a silver mount . 
We were very much afraid of this eikon , because it was very old and black . 
When I was six , I remember my father teaching the village children . 
They had their lessons in the other house , where Alexey Stepanytch , the bailiff , lived , and sometimes on the ground floor of the house we lived in . 
The name we gave to the stone annex . 
There were a great number of village children who used to come . 
When they came , the front hall smelled of sheepskin jackets they were taught by papa and Seryozha and Tanya and Uncle Kostya all at once . 
Lesson time was very gay and lively . 
If one left out a bit , up jumped another and then another , and the story or sum was reconstructed by the united efforts of the whole class . 
What pleased my father most about his pupils was the picturesqueness and originality of their language . 
He never wanted a literal repetition of bookish expressions , and particularly encouraged every one to speak out of his own head . 
I remember how once he stopped a boy who was running into the next room . 
Where are YOU off to ? he asked . 
To uncle , to bite off a piece of chalk . 
The instinct for lime , necessary to feed their bones , drives Russian children to nibble pieces of chalk or the whitewash off the wall . 
us , he said to some one when the boy was gone . 
Under my mother's supervision he prepared my father's vegetarian diet with affectionate zeal , and without him my father would very likely never have lived to the ripe old age he did . 
Agafya Mikhailovna was an old woman who lived at first in the kitchen of the other house and afterward on the home farm . 
Once upon a time long ago she had been housemaid to my great grandmother , Countess Pelageya Nikolayevna Tolstoy , my father's grandmother , nee Princess Gortchakova . 
She was fond of telling about her young days . 
She would say I was very handsome . 
When I crossed over to the annex , there they were watching to catch me on the way . 
Many a time have I tricked them ran round the other way and jumped over the ditch . 
I never liked that sort of thing any time . 
A maid I was , a maid I am . 
After my grandmother's death , Agafya Mikhailovna was sent on to the home farm for some reason or other , and minded the sheep . 
She got so fond of sheep that all her days after she never would touch mutton . 
After the sheep , she had an affection for dogs , and that is the only period of her life that I remember her in . 
There was nothing in the world she cared about but dogs . 
She lived with them in horrible dirt and smells , and gave up her whole mind and soul to them . 
There are many interesting recollections bound up with the memory of this intelligent and original woman . 
Most of them are associated in my mind with my father's stories about her . 
He could always catch and unravel any interesting psychological trait , and these traits , which he would mention incidentally , stuck firmly in my mind . 
He used to tell , for instance , how Agafya Mikhailovna complained to him of sleeplessness . 
Ever since I can remember her , she has suffered from 'a birch tree growing inside me from my belly up it presses against my chest , and prevents my breathing . 
Why , imagine this is Socrates ! 'Know thyself , said my father , telling the story with great enthusiasm . 
, who was studying at the time in the school of jurisprudence , used to come and stay with us . 
In the autumn he used to go wolf hunting with my father and us , with the borzois , and Agafya Mikhailovna loved him for that . 
Styopa's examination was in the spring . 
Agafya Mikhailovna knew about it and anxiously waited for the news of whether he had got through . 
Once she put up a candle before the eikon and prayed that Styopa might pass . 
But at that moment she remembered that her borzois had got out and had not come back to the kennels again . 
Saints in heaven ! they'll get into some place and worry the cattle and do a mischief ! she cried . 
'Lord , let my candle burn for the dogs to come back quick , and I'll buy another for Stepan Andreyevitch . 
No sooner had I said this to myself than I heard the dogs in the porch rattling their collars . 
Thank God ! they were back . 
That's what prayer can do . 
Another favorite of Agafya Mikhailovna was a young man , Misha Stakhovitch , who often stayed with us . 
Trudge , indeed ! You get three telegrams from an outlandish Jew woman , she growled , and telegrams every day about your Golokhvotika . 
Never a trudge then but I get name day greetings , and it's trudge ! And one could not but acknowledge that she was right . 
Agafya Mikhailovna died at the beginning of the nineties . 
THE HOME OF THE TOLSTOYS I CAN remember the house at Yasnaya Polyana in the condition it was in the first years after my father's marriage . 
It was one of the two storied wings of the old mansion house of the Princes Volkonsky , which my father had sold for pulling down when he was still a bachelor . 
From what my father has told me , I know that the house in which he was born and spent his youth was a three storied building with thirty six rooms . 
When any one asked my father where he was born , he used to point to a tall larch which grew on the site of the old foundations . 
Up there where the top of that larch waves , he used to say that's where my mother's room was , where I was born on a leather sofa . 
There was such a ring of respectful affection , so much reverence for her memory , in his words , that we all looked on her as a sort of saint . 
My father remembered his father well , because he was already nine years old when he died . 
Even to this day I do not exactly know the story of the sale of the old house . 
My father never liked talking about it , and for that reason I could never make up my mind to ask him the details of the transaction . 
It was said to have been done in order to pay off my father's gambling debts . 
My father himself told me that at one time he was a great card player , that he lost large sums of money , and that his financial affairs were considerably embarrassed . 
The zala is the chief room of a house , corresponding to the English drawing room , but on a grand scale . 
The gostinaya literally guest room , usually translated as drawing room is a place for more intimate receptions . 
At Yasnaya Polyana meals were taken in the zala , but this is not the general Russian custom , houses being provided also with a stolovaya , or dining room . 
The walls of the zala were hung with old portraits of ancestors . 
Beside him hung the portrait of another great grandfather , Prince Nikolai Sergeyevitch Volkonsky , my grandmother's father , with thick , black eyebrows , a gray wig , and a red kaftan . 
Kaftan , a long coat of various cuts , including military and naval frock coat , and the long gown worn by coachmen . 
This Volkonsky built all the buildings of Yasnaya Polyana . 
He was a model squire , intelligent and proud , and enjoyed the great respect of all the neighborhood . 
On the ground floor , under the drawing room , next to the entrance hall , my father built his study . 
He had a semi circular niche made in the wall , and stood a marble bust of his favorite dead brother Nikolai in it . 
He had a kind and rather plaintive face . 
The hair was brushed smooth like a child's , with the parting on one side . 
He had no beard or mustache , and his head was white and very , very clean . 
My father's study was divided in two by a partition of big bookshelves , containing a multitude of all sorts of books . 
Afanasyi Shenshin , the poet , who adopted his mother's name , Fet , for a time , owing to official difficulties about his birth certificate . 
An intimate friend of Tolstoy's . 
Sovremennik , or Contemporary Review , edited by the poet Mekrasof , was the rallying place for the men of the forties , the new school of realists . 
Ostrovsky is the dramatist Gontcharof the novelist , author of Oblomof Grigorovitch wrote tales about peasant life , and was the discoverer of Tchekhof's talent as a serious writer . 
Soon after he would issue from his study fresh and vigorous , in a gray smock frock , and would go up into the zala for breakfast . 
But if there were friends and guests with us , he would get into conversation , become interested , and could not tear himself away . 
Then my father would come out of his study and go off for his afternoon's exercise . 
Sometimes he would take a dog and a gun , sometimes ride , and sometimes merely go for a walk to the imperial wood . 
He was very hungry , and ate voraciously of whatever turned up . 
My mother would try to stop him , would tell him not to waste all his appetite on kasha , because there were chops and vegetables to follow . 
You'll have a bad liver again , she would say but he would pay no attention to her , and would ask for more and more , until his hunger was completely satisfied . 
All this he would relate in the most vivid and entertaining way , so that the time passed gaily and animatedly . 
Perhaps mama would not notice ? She was in the sitting room , making a copy . 
Come , children , bedtime ! Say good night , she would call . 
In a minute , Mama just five minutes . 
Run along it's high time or there will be no getting you up in the morning to do your lessons . 
A JOURNEY TO THE STEPPES WHEN I was still a child and had not yet read War and Peace , I was told that NATASHA ROSTOF was Aunt Tanya . 
In those remote days about which I am talking , my father was very keen about the management of his estate , and devoted a lot of energy to it . 
I still have pretty clear , though rather fragmentary and inconsequent , recollections of our three summer excursions to the steppes of Samara . 
My father had already been there before his marriage in , and afterward by the advice of Dr . 
Zakharyin , who attended him . 
He took the kumiss cure in and , and at last , in , the whole family went there . 
The kumiss was bitter and very nasty , but my father and my uncle Stephen Behrs were very fond of it , and drank it in large quantities . 
When we boys began to get big , we had at first a German tutor for two or three years , Fyodor Fyodorovitch Kaufmann . 
I cannot say that we were particularly fond of him . 
He was rather rough , and even we children were struck by his German stupidity . 
His redeeming feature was that he was a devoted sportsman . 
Every morning he used to jerk the blankets off us and shout , Auf , Kinder ! auf ! and during the daytime plagued us with German calligraphy . 
OUTDOOR SPORTS THE chief passion of my childhood was riding . 
I well remember the time when my father used to put me in the saddle in front of him and we would ride out to bathe in the Voronka . 
I have several interesting recollections connected with these rides . 
One day as we were going to bathe , papa turned round and said to me Do you know , Ilyusha , I am very pleased with myself to day . 
I have been bothered with her for three whole days , and could not manage to make her go into the house try as I would , it was impossible . 
It never would come right . 
But to day I remembered that there is a mirror in every hall , and that every lady wears a bonnet . 
As soon as I remembered that , she went where I wanted her to , and did everything she had to . 
You would think a bonnet is a small affair , but everything depended on that bonnet . 
As I recall this conversation , I feel sure that my father was talking about that scene in Anna Karenina where ANNA went to see her son . 
However , that was often the case with him . 
I once heard from him a very interesting description of what a writer needs for his work You cannot imagine how important one's mood is , he said . 
Sometimes you get up in the morning , fresh and vigorous , with your head clear , and you begin to write . 
Everything is sensible and consistent . 
You read it over next day , and have to throw the whole thing away , because , good as it is , it misses the main thing . 
There is no imagination in it , no subtlety , none of the necessary something , none of that only just without which all your cleverness is worth nothing . 
Another day you get up after a bad night , with your nerves all on edge , and you think , 'To day I shall write well , at any rate . 
And as a matter of fact , what you write is beautiful , picturesque , with any amount of imagination . 
You look it through again it is no good , because it is written stupidly . 
There is plenty of color , but not enough intelligence . 
One's writing is good only when the intelligence and the imagination are in equilibrium . 
As soon as one of them overbalances the other , it's all up you may as well throw it away and begin afresh . 
As a matter of fact , there was no end to the rewriting in my father's works . 
His industry in this particular was truly marvelous . 
We were always devoted to sport from our earliest childhood . 
I can remember as well as I remember myself my father's favorite dog in those days , an Irish setter called Dora . 
They would bring round the cart , with a very quiet horse between the shafts , and we would drive out to the marsh , to Degatna or to Malakhov . 
My father and sometimes my mother or a coachman sat on the seat , while I and Dora lay on the floor . 
When we got to the marsh , my father used to get out , stand his gun on the ground , and , holding it with his left hand , load it . 
Dora meanwhile fidgeted about , whining impatiently and wagging her thick tail . 
My father sometimes shot fairly well , though he often lost his head , and missed frantically . 
But our favorite sport was coursing with greyhounds . 
Sometimes mama came in in her dressing gown , and made us put on all sorts of extra woolen stockings , and sweaters and gloves . 
What are you going to wear , Lyovotchka ? she would say to papa . 
It's very cold to day , and there is a wind . 
Only the Kuzminsky overcoat again today ? You must put on something underneath , if only for my sake . 
Papa would make a face , but give in at last , and buckle on his short gray overcoat under the other and sally forth . 
It would then be growing light . 
Our horses were brought round , we got on , and rode first to the other house , or to the kennels to get the dogs . 
Agafya Mikhailovna would be anxiously waiting us on the steps . 
Despite the coldness of the morning , she would be bareheaded and lightly clad , with her black jacket open , showing her withered , old bosom . 
She carried the dog collars in her lean , knotted hands . 
Have you gone and fed them again ? asks my father , severely , looking at the dogs' bulging stomachs . 
Fed them ? Not a bit only just a crust of bread apiece . 
Then what are they licking their chops for ? There was a bit of yesterday's oatmeal left over . 
I thought as much ! All the hares will get away again . 
The balks are the banks dividing the fields of different owners or crops . 
Hedges are not used for this purpose in Russia . 
Something white would appear ahead . 
We stared hard at it , gathered up the reins , examined the leash , scarcely believing the good luck of having come on a hare at last . 
Then riding up closer and closer , with our eyes on the white thing , it would turn out to be not a hare at all , but a horse's skull . 
How annoying ! We would look at papa and Seryozha , thinking , I wonder if they saw that I took that skull for a hare . 
Thank heaven ! we would exclaim , nobody saw me ! What a fool I should have felt ! So we would ride on . 
The dogs had seen it before we had , and had started forward already in full pursuit . 
We began to bawl , Tally ho ! tally ho ! like madmen , flogging our horses with all our might , and flying after them . 
Then papa would teach us how to strap the hare on the back of the saddle . 
Pazanki , tracks of a hare , name given to the last joint of the hind legs . 
After the run we would all be in better spirits , and get to better places near Yasenki and Retinka . 
Gray hares would get up oftener . 
Each of us would have his spoils in the saddle straps now , and we would begin to hope for a fox . 
Not many foxes would turn up . 
If they did , it was generally Tumashka , who was old and staid , who distinguished himself . 
It would be late , often dark , when we got back home . 
ANNA KAReNINA I REMEMBER my father writing his alphabet and reading book in and , but I cannot at all remember his beginning Anna Karenina . 
I probably knew nothing about it at the time . 
My mother's work seemed much harder than my father's , because we actually saw her at it , and she worked much longer hours than he did . 
She used to sit in the sitting room off the zala , at her little writing table , and spend all her free time writing . 
Sometimes , when anything was written quite illegibly , she would go to my father's study and ask him what it meant . 
But this was very rare , because my mother did not like to disturb him . 
He had a very bad handwriting , and a terrible habit of writing in whole sentences between the lines , or in the corners of the page , or sometimes right across it . 
My mother often discovered gross grammatical errors , and pointed them out to my father , and corrected them . 
When Anna Karenina began to come out in the Russky Vyestnik , long galley proofs were posted to my father , and he looked them through and corrected them . 
A Moscow monthly , founded by Katkof , who somehow managed to edit both this and the daily Moskovskiya Vyedomosti , on which Uncle Kostya worked at the same time . 
At first the margins would be marked with the ordinary typographical signs , letters omitted , marks of punctuation , etc . 
My mother would sit up all night copying the whole thing out afresh . 
We'll send them off to morrow without fail . 
But this to morrow was often put off day by day for weeks or months together . 
There's just one bit I want to look through again , my father would say but he would get carried away and recast the whole thing afresh . 
There were even occasions when , after posting the proofs , he would remember some particular words next day , and correct them by telegraph . 
Several times , in consequence of these rewritings , the printing of the novel in the Russky Vyestnik was interrupted , and sometimes it did not come out for months together . 
In concluding , I wish to say a few words about my father's own opinion of Anna Karenina . 
In he wrote to N. N. Strakhof I must confess that I was delighted by the success of the last piece of 'Anna Karenina . 
I had by no means expected it , and to tell you the truth , I am surprised that people are so pleased with such ordinary and EMPTY stuff . 
The same year he wrote to Fet It is two months since I have defiled my hands with ink or my heart with thoughts . 
In , when the novel was nearing its end , he wrote again to Strakhof I am frightened by the feeling that I am getting into my summer mood again . 
I LOATHE what I have written . 
The proof sheets for the April number of Anna Karenina in the Russky Vyestnik now lie on my table , and I am afraid that I have not the heart to correct them . 
EVERYTHING in them is BEASTLY , and the whole thing ought to be rewritten , all that has been printed , too , scrapped and melted down , thrown away , renounced . 
That was how my father felt toward his novel while he was writing it . 
Afterward I often heard him say much harsher things about it . 
What difficulty is there in writing about how an officer fell in love with a married woman ? he used to say . 
There's no difficulty in it , and above all no good in it . 
I am quite convinced that if my father could have done so , he long ago would have destroyed this novel , which he never liked and always wanted to disown . 
It originated long before , when I was still small and had only just learned to write , and it continued with intervals till the middle of the eighties . 
For a long time after , I wrote no more , and was always fonder of hearing other people's compositions read than my own . 
All the events of our life at Yasnaya Polyana found their echo in one way or another in the letter box , and no one was spared , not even the grown ups . 
Unfortunately , much of the correspondence has been lost , but bits of it have been preserved by some of us in copies or in memory . 
I cannot recall everything interesting that there was in it , but here are a few of the more interesting things from the period of the eighties . 
THE LETTER BOX THE old fogy continues his questions . 
Question Which is the most beastly plague , a cattle plague case for a farmer , or the ablative case for a school boy ? LYOFF TOLSTOY . 
Answers are requested to the following questions Why do Ustyusha , Masha , Alyona , Peter , etc . 
My father wrote the following story , Susoitchik , about it . 
From the early morning onward , people kept arriving who had been sent him by Tatyana Kuzminsky . 
The first visitor , Alexander Mikhailovitch , caused Susoitchik no surprise , as he often paid Susoitchik visits in obedience to the behests of his wife . 
You come here very often . 
What do you want ? Oh , nothing in particular she just sent her compliments , murmured Alexander Mikhailovitch , departing from the exact truth with some effort . 
Very good , very good come whenever you like she is one of my best workers . 
Before Susoitchik had time to show the judge out , in came all the children , laughing and jostling , and hiding one behind the other . 
What brought you here , youngsters ? Did my little Tanyitchka send you ? That's right no harm in coming . 
Give my compliments to Tanya , and tell her that I am always at her service . 
Old Susoitchik may be of use to you . 
No sooner had the young folk made their bow than old Lyoff Tolstoy appeared with Prince Urusof . 
Aha ! so it's the old boy ! Many thanks to Tanyitchka . 
It's a long time since I have seen you , old chap . 
Well and hearty ? And what can I do for you ? Lyoff Tolstoy shuffled about , rather abashed . 
Prince Urusof , mindful of the etiquette of diplomatic receptions , stepped forward and explained Tolstoy's appearance by his wish to make acquaintance with Tatyana Andreyevna's oldest and most faithful friend . 
Les amis des nos amis sont nos amis . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! quite so ! said Susoitchik . 
I must reward her for to day's work . 
Be so kind , Prince , as to hand her the marks of my good will . 
And he handed over the insignia of an order in a morocco case . 
The insignia consisted of a necklace of imp's tails to be worn about the throat , and two toads , one to be worn on the bosom and the other on the bustle . 
He lived at Pirogovo , twenty miles from Yasnaya , and visited us often . 
As a young man he was very handsome . 
He had the same features as my father , but he was slenderer and more aristocratic looking . 
He had the same oval face , the same nose , the same intelligent gray eyes , and the same thick , overhanging eyebrows . 
My father's brother Dmitry died in Nikolai died September , . 
That is to say , his eyes went always on the straightest road to attain satisfaction for himself . 
I always remembered myself , was aware of myself , always divined rightly or wrongly what others thought about me and felt toward me and this spoiled the joy of life for me . 
This was probably the reason why I particularly delighted in the opposite of this in other people namely , directness of egoism . 
That is what I especially loved in Seryozha , though the word 'loved' is inexact . 
I loved Nikolenka , but I admired Seryozha as something alien and incomprehensible to me . 
It was a human life very beautiful , but completely incomprehensible to me , mysterious , and therefore especially attractive . 
He was what he was he concealed nothing , and did not wish to appear anything different . 
Uncle Seryozha never treated children affectionately on the contrary , he seemed to put up with us rather than to like us . 
But we always treated him with particular reverence . 
He was not only not in the least afraid of him , but was always teasing him , and argued with him like an elder person with a younger . 
We were quite alive to this . 
Of course every one knew that there were no faster dogs in the world than our black and white Darling and her daughter Wizard . 
Not a hare could get away from them . 
We listened with open mouths , and did not know which to believe , papa or Uncle Seryozha . 
Uncle Seryozha went out coursing with us one day . 
We could not tell whether he was right or wrong . 
Afterward papa kept dogs only because there was Agafya Mikhailovna to be thought of , and Uncle Seryozha gave up sport because it was impossible to keep dogs . 
What is there left to do nowadays ? Country life has become impossible . 
In the matter of wit and sarcasm , on the other hand , he was strikingly original . 
At one period he spent several winters in succession with his family in Moscow . 
One time , after a historic concert given by Anton Rubinstein , at which Uncle Seryozha and his daughter had been , he came to take tea with us in Weavers' Row . 
Khamsvniki , a street in Moscow . 
My father asked him how he had liked the concert . 
Do you remember Himbut , Lyovotchka ? Lieutenant Himbut , who was forester near Yasnaya ? I once asked him what was the happiest moment of his life . 
They flogged and they flogged when they stopped , that was the happiest moment of my life . 
Well , it was only during the entr'actes , when Rubinstein stopped playing , that I really enjoyed myself . 
He did not always spare my father . 
Once when I was out shooting with a setter near Pirogovo , I drove in to Uncle Seryozha's to stop the night . 
I do not remember apropos of what , but Uncle Seryozha averred that Lyovotchka was proud . 
He said He is always preaching humility and non resistance , but he is proud himself . 
Nashenka's sister had a footman called Forna . 
When he got drunk , he used to get under the staircase , tuck in his legs , and lie down . 
One day they came and told him that the countess was calling him . 
'She can come and find me if she wants me , he answered . 
Maria Mikhailovna , his wife . 
Lyovotchka is just the same . 
Isn't that just the same as Forna ? No , Lyovotchka is very proud . 
Nothing would induce him to go , and he was quite right but it's no good talking of humility . 
During the last years of Sergei Nikolayevitch's life my father was particularly friendly and affectionate with him , and delighted in sharing his thoughts with him . 
The difference of their attitude to life was determined by the difference of the ways in which they turned their backs on their unfulfilled dreams . 
Nikolai quenched his ardor in skeptical derision , Lyoff renounced his unrealized dreams with silent reproach , and Sergei with morbid misanthropy . 
The greater the original store of love in such characters , the stronger , if only for a time , is their resemblance to Timon of Athens . 
In the winter of my father was ill in the Crimea , and for a long time lay between life and death . 
I remember how joyfully and gratefully he welcomed me . 
How glad I am that you came ! Now tell me all about it . 
And how does he endure it ? Got used to it , you say ? No I cannot imagine having Vera to change my linen and wash me . 
Of course she would say that it's nothing to her , but for me it would be awful . 
And tell me , is he afraid to die ? Does he say not ? Very likely he's a strong man , he may be able to conquer the fear of it . 
Yes , you have told me a great deal every detail is interesting . 
It is not death that's so terrible , it's illness , helplessness , and , above all , the fear that you are a burden to others . 
Uncle Seryozha died in of cancer in the face . 
This is what my aunt , Maria Nikolayevna , the nun , told me about his death . 
Almost to the last day he was on his legs , and would not let any one nurse him . 
He was in full possession of his faculties and consciously prepared for death . 
She became a nun after her husband's death and the marriage of her three daughters . 
They were all troubled with the difficult question whether the dying man would want to receive the holy communion before he died . 
They awaited my father's arrival impatiently , but were secretly afraid of his influence on his brother , and hoped against hope that Sergei Nikolayevitch would send for the priest before his arrival . 
Imagine our surprise and delight , said Maria Tolstoy , when Lyovotchka came out of his room and told Maria Mikhailovna that Seryozha wanted a priest sent for . 
My father stayed about a week at Pirogovo , and left two days before my uncle died . 
When he received a telegram to say he was worse , he drove over again , but arrived too late he was no longer living . 
He carried his body out from the house with his own hands , and himself bore it to the churchyard . 
Petersburg in the middle of the fifties . 
It is Count Tolstoy's saber he is asleep in the drawing room . 
And Ivan Sergeyevitch is in his study having breakfast , replied Zalchar . 
Orgies , Gipsies , and gambling all night long , and then sleeps like a dead man till two o'clock in the afternoon . 
I did my best to stop him , but have given it up as a bad job . 
Tolstoy was in the artillery , and commanded a battery in the Crimea . 
It was in this visit to St . 
Soon after this my father came to know Fet intimately , and they struck up a firm and lasting friendship , and established a correspondence which lasted almost till Fet's death . 
It was at Fet's , at Stepanovka , that my father and Turgenieff quarreled . 
In those distant times of which I am speaking my father was bound to Fet by a common interest in agriculture as well as literature . 
Some of my father's letters of the sixties are curious in this respect . 
You have never done anything better it is all charming . 
The quotation is from Fet's poem The lingering clouds' last throng flies over us . 
But it was not only community of interests that brought my father and Afanasyi Afanasyevitch together . 
The reason of their intimacy lay in the fact that , as my father expressed it , they thought alike with their heart's mind . 
I also remember Nikolai Nikolayevitch Strakhof's visits . 
He was a remarkably quiet and modest man . 
He appeared at Yasnaya Polyana in the beginning of the seventies , and from that time on came and stayed with us almost every summer till he died . 
When he addressed my father , he always said Lef Nikolayevitch instead of Lyoff Nikolaievich , like other people . 
He always stayed down stairs in my father's study , and spent his whole day there reading or writing , with a thick cigarette , which he rolled himself , in his mouth . 
Strakhof and my father came together originally on a purely business footing . 
When the first part of my father's Alphabet and Reading Book was printed , Strakhof had charge of the proof reading . 
This led to a correspondence between him and my father , of a business character at first , later developing into a philosophical and friendly one . 
While he was writing Anna Karenina , my father set great store by his opinion and valued his critical instinct very highly . 
It is enough for me that that is your opinion , he writes in a letter of , probably apropos of the Alphabet . 
In , apropos of Anna Karenina this time , my father wrote You ask me whether you have understood my novel aright , and what I think of your opinion . 
Of course you understood it aright . 
Of course I am overjoyed at your understanding of it but it does not follow that everybody will understand it as you do . 
But it was not only his critical work that drew my father to Strakhof . 
He disliked critics on the whole and used to say that the only people who took to criticism were those who had no creative faculty of their own . 
The stupid ones judge the clever ones , he said of professional critics . 
What he valued most in Strakhof was the profound and penetrating thinker . 
He was a real friend of my father's , my father himself so described him , and I recall his memory with deep affection and respect . 
At last I have come to the memory of the man who was nearer in spirit to my father than any other human being , namely , Nikolai Nikolayevitch Gay . 
Grandfather Gay , as we called him , made my father's acquaintance in . 
This book contains everything that a man needs , he used to say on these occasions . 
While reading the Gospel , he often looked up at the person he was talking to and went on reading without looking at the book . 
His face glowed at such moments with such inward joy that one could see how near and dear the words he was reading were to his heart . 
He knew the whole Gospel almost by heart , but he said that every time he read it he enjoyed a new and genuine spiritual delight . 
TURGeNIEFF I DO not mean to recount all the misunderstandings which existed between my father and Turgenieff , which ended in a complete breach between them in . 
The actual external facts of that story are common property , and there is no need to repeat them . 
According to general opinion , the quarrel between the two greatest writers of the day arose out of their literary rivalry . 
Fet , at whose house the quarrel took place , tells all about it in his memoirs . 
Tolstoy dogmatized about lady like charity , apropos of Turgenieff's daughter . 
Turgenieff , in a fit of nerves , threatened to box his ears . 
Tolstoy challenged him to a duel , and Turgenieff apologized . 
As far as I know , my father never had any serious difference with any other human being during the whole course of his existence . 
And Turgenieff , in a letter to my father in , wrote , You are the only man with whom I have ever had misunderstandings . 
Whenever my father related his quarrel with Ivan Sergeyevitch , he took all the blame on himself . 
Turgenieff , immediately after the quarrel , wrote a letter apologizing to my father , and never sought to justify his own part in it . 
Turgenieff , from the very outset of my father's literary career , acknowledged his enormous talents , and never thought of rivalry with him . 
When this young wine has done fermenting , he wrote to Druzhenin in , the result will be a liquor worthy of the gods . 
In he wrote to Polonsky , This man will go far , and leave deep traces behind him . 
Nevertheless , somehow these two men never could hit it off together . 
In Turgenieff wrote to my father Your letter took some time reaching me , dear Lyoff Nikolaievich . 
Let me begin by saying that I am very grateful to you for sending it to me . 
I think that you yourself understand the reason of this awkwardness of which I speak . 
You are the only man with whom I have ever had misunderstandings . 
This arises from the very fact that I have never been willing to confine myself to merely friendly relations with you . 
I have always wanted to go further and deeper than that but I set about it clumsily . 
I irritated and upset you , and when I saw my mistake , I drew back too hastily , perhaps and it was this which caused this gulf between us . 
I assure you that there is no need to look for any other explanation . 
Perhaps I may add , also , that I am much older than you , and I have traveled a different road . 
Outside of our special , so called literary interests , I am convinced , we have few points of contact . 
Your whole being stretches out hands toward the future mine is built up in the past . 
For me to follow you is impossible . 
For you to follow me is equally out of the question . 
You are too far removed from me , and besides , you stand too firmly on your own legs to become any one's disciple . 
I can assure you that I never attributed any malice to you , never suspected you of any literary envy . 
I have often thought , if you will excuse the expression , that you were wanting in common sense , but never in goodness . 
You are too penetrating not to know that if either of us has cause to envy the other , it is certainly not you that has cause to envy me . 
I don't deny it perhaps you are right . 
Still , batter my poor brains as I may , I cannot imagine what else you are if you are not a man of letters . 
A soldier ? A squire ? A philosopher ? The founder of a new religious doctrine ? A civil servant ? A man of business ? . 
Please resolve my difficulties , and tell me which of these suppositions is correct . 
I am joking , but I really do wish beyond all things to see you under way at last , with all sails set . 
Any other line of activity on my father's part offended Turgenieff , as it were , and he was angry with my father because he did not follow his advice . 
Turgenieff's tastes and character were diametrically opposed to my father's . 
While opposition always inspired my father and lent him strength , it had just the opposite effect on Turgenieff . 
Turgenieff was ten years older than Tolstoy . 
In , before the date of the quarrel , Turgenieff wrote to Fet Lyoff Tolstoy continues to play the crank . 
It was evidently written in his stars . 
When will he turn his last somersault and stand on his feet at last ? Turgenieff was just the same about my father's Confession , which he read not long before his death . 
for fear of becoming disputatious . 
IVaN SERGeYEVITCH three times visited Yasnaya Polyana within my memory , in August and September , , and the third and last time at the beginning of May , . 
I can remember all these visits , although it is quite possible that some details have escaped me . 
I remember that when we expected Turgenieff on his first visit , it was a great occasion , and the most anxious and excited of all the household about it was my mother . 
She told us that my father had quarreled with Turgenieff and had once challenged him to a duel , and that he was now coming at my father's invitation to effect a reconciliation . 
He had a chuckling kind of laugh , like a child's , and when he laughed his voice was more piping than ever . 
In the evening , after dinner , we all gathered in the zala . 
Aunt Tanya was asked to sing . 
We listened with beating hearts , and waited to hear what Turgenieff , the famous connoisseur , would say about her singing . 
Of course he praised it , sincerely , I think . 
After the singing a quadrille was got up . 
Everyone roared with laughter , Turgenieff more than anybody . 
After tea the grown ups started some conversation , and a warm dispute arose among them . 
It was Prince Uru sof who disputed most warmly , and went for Turgenieff . 
Of Turgenieff's third visit I remember the woodcock shooting . 
This was on the second or third of May , . 
We all went out together beyond the Voronka , my father , my mother and all the children . 
My father gave Turgenieff the best place and posted himself one hundred and fifty paces away at the other end of the same glade . 
My mother stood by Turgenieff , and we children lighted a bonfire not far off . 
My father fired several shots and brought down two birds Ivan Sergeyevitch had no luck , and was envying my father's good fortune all the time . 
At last , when it was beginning to get dark , a woodcock flew over Turgenieff , and he shot it . 
Killed it ? called out my father . 
Fell like a stone send your dog to pick him up , answered Ivan Sergeyevitch . 
At last Turgenieff came to help , and my father came there was no woodcock there . 
Perhaps you only winged it it may have got away along the ground , said my father , puzzled . 
It is impossible that the dog shouldn't find it he couldn't miss a bird that was killed . 
I tell you I saw it with my own eyes , Lyoff Nikolaievich it fell like a stone . 
I didn't wound it I killed it outright . 
I can tell the difference . 
Then why can't the dog find it ? It's impossible there's something wrong . 
I don't know anything about that , insisted Turgenieff . 
You may take it from me I'm not lying it fell like a stone where I tell you . 
There was no finding the woodcock , and the incident left an unpleasant flavor , as if one or the other of them was in the wrong . 
Either Turgenieff was bragging when he said that he shot it dead , or my father , in maintaining that the dog could not fail to find a bird that had been killed . 
When we brought it home in triumph , it was something of an occasion , and my father and Turgenieff were far more delighted than we were . 
It turned out that they were both in the right , and everything ended to their mutual satisfaction . 
Ivan Sergeyevitch slept down stairs in my father's study . 
When the party broke up for the night , I used to see him to his room , and while he was undressing I sat on his bed and talked sport with him . 
He asked me if I could shoot . 
I said yes , but that I didn't care to go out shooting because I had nothing but a rotten old one barreled gun . 
I'll give you a gun , he said . 
I've got two in Paris , and I have no earthly need for both . 
It's not an expensive gun , but it's a good one . 
Next time I come to Russia I'll bring it with me . 
I was quite taken aback and thanked him heartily . 
I was tremendously delighted at the idea that I was to have a real central fire gun . 
Unfortunately , Turgenieff never came to Russia again . 
I tried afterward to buy the gun he had spoken of from his legatees not in the quality of a central fire gun , but as Turgenieff's gun but I did not succeed . 
In my father received from Ivan Sergeyevitch his last farewell letter , written in pencil on his death bed , and I remember with what emotion he read it . 
And when the news of his death came , my father would talk of nothing else for several days , and inquired everywhere for details of his illness and last days . 
He always hated cliches , and he regarded this one as quite absurd . 
Why not 'writer of the land' ? I never heard before that a man could be the writer of a land . 
People get attached to some nonsensical expression , and go on repeating it in season and out of season . 
I have given extracts above from Turgenieff's letters , which show the invariable consistency with which he lauded my father's literary talents . 
Unfortunately , I cannot say the same of my father's attitude toward Turgenieff . 
In this , too , the want of dispassionateness in his nature revealed itself . 
Personal relations prevented him from being objective . 
In , apropos of Turgenieff's Smoke , which had just appeared , he wrote to Fet There is hardly any love of anything in Smoke and hardly any poetry . 
The only thing it shows love for is light and playful adultery , and for that reason the poetry of the story is repulsive . 
I am timid in expressing this opinion , because I cannot form a sober judgment about an author whose personality I dislike . 
This is what he wrote to my mother at the time I am always thinking about Turgenieff . 
I am intensely fond of him , and sorry for him , and do nothing but read him . 
I live entirely with him . 
I shall certainly give a lecture on him , or write it to be read tell Yuryef . 
Enough read it it is perfectly charming . 
Unfortunately , my father's intended lecture on Turgenieff never came off . 
The Government forbade him to pay this last tribute to his dead friend , with whom he had quarreled all his life only because he could not be indifferent to him . 
You also will be living at Yasnaya . 
You will be getting a little old , but you will be healthy and vigorous . 
We shall lead the life we led in the old days I shall work in the mornings , but we shall meet and see each other almost all day . 
We shall dine together in the evening . 
I shall read you something that interests you . 
We shall talk about the people that we loved and who are no more . 
You will cry , and I , too but our tears will be refreshing , tranquilizing tears . 
We shall have no acquaintances no one will come in to bore us with gossip . 
It is a wonderful dream but that is not all that I let myself dream of . 
My wife will take my mother's place , and the children ours . 
Masha will fill the part of both my aunts , except for their sorrow and there will even be Gasha there to take the place of Prashovya Ilyinitchna . 
The only thing lacking will be some one to take the part you played in the life of our family . 
We shall never find such a noble and loving heart as yours . 
There is no one to succeed you . 
Just ten years after this letter , my father married , and almost all his dreams were realized , just as he had wished . 
Only the big house , with his grandmother's room , was missing , and his brother Nikolenka , with the dirty hands , for he died two years before , in . 
In his family life my father witnessed a repetition of the life of his parents , and in us children he sought to find a repetition of himself and his brothers . 
We were brought up as regular gentlefolk , proud of our social position and holding aloof from all the outer world . 
Everything that was not us was below us , and therefore unworthy of imitation . 
I knew that my father felt very earnestly about the chastity of young people I knew how much strength he laid on purity . 
An early marriage seemed to me the best solution of the difficult question that must harass every thoughtful boy when he attains to man's estate . 
My father knew , but said nothing . 
One day when he was going out for a walk I asked if I might go with him . 
I said that I was very fond of the eldest daughter . 
Oh , do you want to marry her ? Yes . 
Is she a good girl ? Well , mind you don't make a mistake , and don't be false to her , he said with a curious gentleness and thoughtfulness . 
I left him at once and ran back home , delighted , along the Arbat . 
My father's tactfulness toward us amounted almost to timidity . 
There were certain questions which he could never bring himself to touch on for fear of causing us pain . 
I shall never forget how once in Moscow I found him sitting writing at the table in my room when I dashed in suddenly to change my clothes . 
My bed stood behind a screen , which hid him from me . 
When he heard my footsteps he said , without looking round Is that you , Ilya ? Yes , it's I. Are you alone ? Shut the door . 
There's no one to hear us , and we can't see each other , so we shall not feel ashamed . 
Tell me , did you ever have anything to do with women ? When I said no , I suddenly heard him break out sobbing , like a little child . 
No arguments or homilies could ever have effected what the emotion I experienced at that moment did . 
Such tears as those shed by a father of sixty can never be forgotten even in moments of the strongest temptation . 
I still have some of his letters written at that time . 
I said unpleasant things in it , but I have no right to do so . 
I do not know you as I should like to and as I ought to know you . 
And I wish to remedy it . 
I know much in you that I do not like , but I do not know everything . 
If you come , I shall be glad for my own sake , so long as you are not inseparable from G . 
Do as you think best . 
L. T. Dear Friend Ilya There is always somebody or something that prevents me from answering your two letters , which are important and dear to me , especially the last . 
First it was Baturlin , then bad health , insomnia , then the arrival of D , the friend of H that I wrote you about . 
Even supposing that S A demands too much of you , there is no harm in waiting especially from the point of view of fortifying your opinions , your faith . 
That is the one important thing . 
If you don't , it is a fearful disaster to put off from one shore and not reach the other . 
I had written to my father that my fiancee's mother would not let me marry for two years . 
The one shore is an honest and good life , for your own delight and the profit of others . 
One must be truthful and wish to be good with all one's might , too . 
If you have this , good marry at once , and give the lie to PRINCESS MARYA ALEXEVNA . 
If not , it is a hundred to one that your marriage will lead to nothing but misery . 
I am speaking to you from the bottom of my heart . 
Receive my words into the bottom of yours , and weigh them well . 
Besides love for you as a son , I have love for you also as a man standing at the cross ways . 
I kiss you and Lyolya and Noletchka and Seryozha , if he is back . 
We are all alive and well . 
My father took Griboyehof's PRINCESS MARYA ALEXEVNA as a type . 
Well , I think about it a great deal , with joy and with fear mixed . 
This is what I think . 
If one marries in order to enjoy oneself more , no good will ever come of it . 
To set up as one's main object , ousting everything else , marriage , union with the being you love , is a great mistake . 
And an obvious one , if you think about it . 
Well , you marry and what then ? If you had no other object in life before your marriage , it will be twice as hard to find one . 
As a rule , people who are getting married completely forget this . 
So many joyful events await them in the future , in wedlock and the arrival of children , that those events seem to constitute life itself . 
But this is indeed a dangerous illusion . 
And then the parents lose their human qualities and the happiness which depends on the possession of them , and turn into mere breeding cattle . 
And in order to make this clear , you must consider the circumstances in which you live , your past . 
Reckon up what you consider important and what unimportant in life . 
Find out what you believe in that is , what you look on as eternal and immutable truth , and what you will take for your guide in life . 
Your faith is that your welfare consists in loving people and being loved by them . 
Second , in order to love people not in words , but in deed , one must train oneself to do what benefits them . 
That needs still harder work , especially at your age , when it is one's natural business to be studying . 
Third , in order to love people and to b . 
Your purpose in life must not be the joy of wedlock , but , by your life to bring more love and truth into the world . 
The object of marriage is to help one another in the attainment of that purpose . 
Don't mistake half measures for the real thing . 
Why should a man not choose the highest ? Only when you have chosen the highest , you must set your whole heart on it , and not just a little . 
Just a little leads to nothing . 
There , I am tired of writing , and still have much left that I wanted to say . 
In the autumn of my father thought of writing an article on the famine , which had then spread over nearly all Russia . 
The upshot of it was that he devoted two whole years of his life to the work . 
It is wrong to think that my father showed any inconsistency in this matter . 
THERE IS SIN WITHOUT END , but I cannot stay at home and write . 
I feel the necessity of taking part in it , of doing something . 
Six years later I worked again at the same job with my father in Tchornski and Mtsenski districts . 
I turned to my father for help . 
By the spring he had managed to collect some money , and at the beginning of April he came himself to see me . 
I must say that my father , who was very economical by nature , was extraordinarily cautious and , I may say , even parsimonious in charitable matters . 
It is of course easy to understand , if one considers the unlimited confidence which he enjoyed among the subscribers and the great moral responsibility which he could not but feel toward them . 
So that before undertaking anything he had himself to be fully convinced of the necessity of giving aid . 
The day after his arrival , we saddled a couple of horses and rode out . 
We rode as we had ridden together twenty years before , when we went out coursing with our greyhounds that is , across country , over the fields . 
On the way there I remember he told me all about Turgenieff's mother , who was famous through all the neighborhood for her remarkable intelligence , energy , and craziness . 
I do not know that he ever saw her himself , or whether he was telling me only the reports that he had heard . 
As we rode across the Turgenieff's park , he recalled in passing how of old he and Ivan Sergeyevitch had disputed which park was best , Spasskoye or Yasnaya Polyana . 
I asked him And now which do you think ? Yasnaya Polyana IS the best , though this is very fine , very fine indeed . 
In the village we visited the head man's and two or three other cottages , and came away disappointed . 
The peasants , who had been endowed at the emancipation with a full share of good land , and had enriched themselves since by wage earnings , were hardly in want at all . 
It is true that some of the yards were badly stocked but there was none of that acute degree of want which amounts to famine and which strikes the eye at once . 
Of course when he talked to the peasants he asked each of them if he remembered Turgenieff and eagerly picked up anything they had to say about him . 
Some of the old men remembered him and spoke of him with great affection . 
MY FATHER'S ILLNESS IN THE CRIMEA IN the autumn of my father was attacked by persistent feverishness , and the doctors advised him to spend the winter in the Crimea . 
Countess Panina kindly lent him her Villa Gaspra , near Koreiz , and he spent the winter there . 
Soon after his arrival , he caught cold and had two illnesses one after the other , enteric fever and inflammation of the lungs . 
At one time his condition was so bad that the doctors had hardly any hope that he would ever rise from his bed again . 
Despite the fact that his temperature went up very high , he was conscious all the time he dictated some reflections every day , and deliberately prepared for death . 
The whole family was with him , and we all took turns in helping to nurse him . 
My chief duty , as the strongest of the family , was to lift him up while the sheets were being changed . 
When they were making the bed , I had to hold him in my arms like a child . 
I remember how my muscles quivered one day with the exertion . 
Pick me up as they do a baby and carry me . 
He had not a grain of fear that I might stumble and kill him . 
It was all I could do to insist on his being carried down in an arm chair by three of us . 
Was my father afraid of death ? It is impossible to answer the question in one word . 
With his tough constitution and physical strength , he always instinctively fought not only against death , but against old age . 
Till the last year of his life he never gave in , but always did everything for himself and even rode on horseback . 
To suppose , therefore , that he had no instinctive fear of death is out of the question . 
He had that fear , and in a very high degree , but he was constantly fighting to overcome it . 
Did he succeed ? I can answer definitely yes . 
During his illness he talked a great deal of death and prepared himself for it firmly and deliberately . 
When my turn came , he said as nearly as I can remember You are still young and strong and tossed by storms of passion . 
You have not therefore yet been able to think over the chief questions of life . 
But this stage will pass . 
I am sure of it . 
When the time comes , believe me , you will find the truth in the teachings of the Gospel . 
I am dying peacefully simply because I have come to know that teaching and believe in it . 
May God grant you this knowledge soon ! Good by . 
I kissed his hand and left the room quietly . 
When I got to the front door , I rushed to a lonely stone tower , and there sobbed my heart out in the darkness like a child . 
Looking round at last , I saw that some one else was sitting on the staircase near me , also crying . 
This greatest of mysteries interested him to such a degree that his interest came near to love . 
One of the authors of Junker Schmidt . 
His Circle of Reading , November , the day he died , is devoted entirely to thoughts on death . 
Life is a dream , death is an awakening , he wrote , while in expectation of that awakening . 
Apropos of the Circle of Reading , I cannot refrain from relating a characteristic incident which I was told by one of my sisters . 
Half an hour later the friend came across the room to him and repeated exactly the same remark again . 
This time my father made no reply . 
No , no , I want to die to die as soon as possible , groaned my father when he had seen the friend off . 
Isn't it all the same whether it's 'Circle of Reading' or 'For Every Day' ? No , it's time for me to die I cannot live like this any longer . 
And , after all , in the end , one of the editions of the sayings of the wise was called For Every Day instead of Circle of Reading . 
When he heard of any one being put in jail or deported for disseminating his writings , he was so disturbed about it that one was really sorry for him . 
I remember my arrival at Yasnaya some days after Gusef's arrest . 
I stayed two days with my father , and heard of nothing but Gusef . 
Tolstoy's private secretary , arrested and banished in . 
I willingly acknowledge that I was wrong in entertaining this narrow minded feeling . 
If I had entered fully into what my father was feeling , I should have seen this at the time . 
As every one knows , neither this challenge nor the others that followed it led to any result , and the arrests and deportations of those associated with him still went on . 
My father felt himself morally responsible toward all those who suffered on his account , and every year new burdens were laid on his conscience . 
In November , , my sister Masha died of inflammation of the lungs . 
It is a curious thing that she vanished out of life with just as little commotion as she had passed through it . 
Evidently this is the lot of all the pure in heart . 
No one was particularly astonished by her death . 
I remember that when I received the telegram , I felt no surprise . 
It seemed perfectly natural to me . 
She was very delicate and had constant illnesses . 
I observed the same frame of mind in my father . 
When the coffin was carried to the church he changed his clothes and went with the cortege . 
When he reached the stone pillars he stopped us , said farewell to the departed , and walked home along the avenue . 
My sister Masha had held a position of great importance in my father's life and in the life of the whole family . 
I say tenderness in contradistinction to heartiness . 
Heartiness he had and in a very high degree . 
His description of the death of my Uncle Nikolai is characteristic in this connection . 
In a letter to his other brother , Sergei Nikolayevitch , in which he described the last day of his brother's life , my father tells how he helped him to undress . 
He submitted , and became a different man . 
He had a word of praise for everybody , and said to me , 'Thanks , my friend . 
You understand the significance of the words as between us two . 
It is evident that in the language of the Tolstoy brothers the phrase my friend was an expression of tenderness beyond which imagination could not go . 
The words astonished my father even on the lips of his dying brother . 
During all his lifetime I never received any mark of tenderness from him whatever . 
He was not fond of kissing children , and when he did so in saying good morning or good night , he did it merely as a duty . 
It is therefore easy to understand that he did not provoke any display of tenderness toward himself , and that nearness and dearness with him were never accompanied by any outward manifestations . 
It would never have come into my head , for instance , to walk up to my father and kiss him or to stroke his hand . 
The only person who could give him that warmth was Masha . 
It was as if he became a different man with her . 
So that with Masha's death my father was deprived of this natural source of warmth , which , with advancing years , had become more and more of a necessity for him . 
Another and still greater power that she possessed was her remarkably delicate and sensitive conscience . 
This trait in her was still dearer to my father than her caresses . 
Masha could reconcile everybody and everything . 
During the last years of his life my father's health perceptibly grew worse . 
Several times he had the most sudden and inexplicable sort of fainting fits , from which he used to recover the next day , but completely lost his memory for a time . 
Nitenka had died fifty years before . 
The day following all traces of the attack would disappear . 
During one of these fainting fits my brother Sergei , in undressing my father , found a little note book on him . 
There would have been no harm in YOUR seeing it , said my father , as he took it back . 
This little diary in which he wrote down his most secret thoughts and prayers was kept for himself alone , and he never showed it to any one . 
I saw it after my father's death . 
It is impossible to read it without tears . 
It is curious that the sudden decay of my father's memory displayed itself only in the matter of real facts and people . 
He was entirely unaffected in his literary work , and everything that he wrote down to the last days of his life is marked by his characteristic logicalness and force . 
It may be that the reason he forgot the details of real life was because he was too deeply absorbed in his abstract work . 
My wife was at Yasnaya Polyana in October , and when she came home she told me that there was something wrong there . 
Your mother is nervous and hysterical your father is in a silent and gloomy frame of mind . 
I was very busy with my office work , but made up my mind to devote my first free day to going and seeing my father and mother . 
When I got to Yasnaya , my father had already left it . 
I paid Aunt Masha a visit some little time after my father's funeral . 
We sat together in her comfortable little cell , and she repeated to me once more in detail the oft repeated story of my father's last visit to her . 
He sat in that very arm chair where you are sitting now , and how he cried ! she said . 
When Sasha arrived with her girl friend , they set to work studying this map of Russia and planning out a route to the Caucasus . 
Lyovotchka sat there thoughtful and melancholy . 
'Never mind , Papa it'll be all right , said Sasha , trying to encourage him . 
'Ah , you women , you women ! answered her father , bitterly . 
'How can it ever be all right ? I so much hoped that he would settle down here it would just have suited him . 
And it was his own idea , too he had even taken a cottage in the village , Aunt Masha sadly recalled . 
When he left me to go back to the hotel where he was staying , it seemed to me that he was rather calmer . 
When he said good by , he even made some joke about his having come to the wrong door . 
I certainly would never have imagined that he would go away again that same night . 
It was a grievous trial for Aunt Masha when the old confessor Iosif , who was her spiritual director , forbade her to pray for her dead brother because he had been excommunicated . 
She was too broad minded to be able to reconcile herself to the harsh intolerance of the church , and for a time she was honestly indignant . 
Another priest to whom she applied also refused her request . 
This was the cherished dream that always allured him , but which he did not think himself justified in putting into practice . 
I shall not enumerate all the letters of abuse and amazement which my father received from all sides , upbraiding him with luxury , with inconsistency , and even with torturing his peasants . 
It is easy to imagine what an impression they made on him . 
He bore his cross , and it was in this self renunciation that his power consisted , though many either could not or would not understand it . 
Just as thirty years before he had been haunted by the temptation to suicide , so now he struggled with a new and more powerful temptation , that of flight . 
A few days before he left Yasnaya he called on Marya Alexandrovna Schmidt at Ovsyanniki and confessed to her that he wanted to go away . 
I did not know at the time about certain circumstances which have since made a great deal clear to me that was obscure before . 
From the moment of my father's death till now I have been racking my brains to discover what could have given him the impulse to take that last step . 
It would have been the most palpable self deception . 
His first will was written in his diary , on March , . 
Five weeks after Leskof's death . 
But I only request it , and do not direct it . 
It is a good thing to do . 
And it will be good for you to do it but if you do not do it , that is your affair . 
It means that you are not yet ready to do it . 
The fact that my writings have been bought and sold during these last ten years has been the most painful thing in my whole life to me . 
Three copies were made of this will , and they were kept by my sister Masha , my brother Sergei , and Tchertkof . 
I knew of its existence , but I never saw it till after my father's death , and I never inquired of anybody about the details . 
I knew my father's views about copyright , and no will of his could have added anything to what I knew . 
I need hardly add that I never doubted that my father's wishes would be carried out . 
My sister Masha , with whom I once had a conversation on the subject , was of the same opinion . 
In my father stayed with Mr. Tchertkof at Krekshin , and there for the first time he wrote a formal will , attested by the signature of witnesses . 
How this will came to be written I do not know , and I do not intend to discuss it . 
It afterward appeared that it also was imperfect from a legal point of view , and in October , , it had all to be done again . 
As to the writing of the third we are fully informed by Mr. F. Strakhof in an article which he published in the St . 
Petersburg Gazette on November , . 
Mr. Strakhof left Moscow at night . 
He had calculated on Sofya Andreyevna , whose presence at Yasnaya Polyana was highly inexpedient for the business on which he was bound , being still in Moscow . 
Strakhof brought the draft of the will with him , and laid it before Lyoff Nikolaievich . 
But all these outward means for insuring it only come of our disbelief in what we utter . 
And with these words Lyoff Nikolaievich left the study . 
Thereupon Mr. Strakhof began to consider what he must do next , whether he should go back with empty hands , or whether he should argue it out . 
Tolstoy promised to think it over , and left the room again . 
At dinner Sofya Andreyevna was evidently far from having any suspicions . 
When Tolstoy was not by , however , she asked Mr. Strakhof what he had come down about . 
Inasmuch as Mr. Strakhof had other affairs in hand besides the will , he told her about one thing and another with an easy conscience . 
Mr. Strakhof described a second visit to Yasnaya , when he came to attest the same will as a witness . 
When he arrived , he said The countess had not yet come down . 
Of his departure , he said As I said good by to Sofya Andreyevna , I examined her countenance attentively . 
Such complete tranquillity and cordiality toward her departing guests were written on it that I had not the smallest doubt of her complete ignorance of what was going on . 
I left the house with the pleasing consciousness of a work well done a work that was destined to have a considerable historic consequence . 
I only felt some little twinge within , certain qualms of conscience about the conspiratorial character of the transaction . 
But even this text of the will did not quite satisfy my father's friends and advisers it was redrafted for the fourth and last time in July , . 
This last draft was written by my father himself in the Limonovski Forest , two miles from the house , not far from Mr. Tchertkof's estate . 
Such is the melancholy history of this document , which was destined to have historic consequences . 
All this business is very disagreeable to me , and it is unnecessary , my father said when he signed the paper that was thrust before him . 
That was his real opinion about his will , and it never altered to the end of his days . 
Is there any need of proof for that ? I think one need know very little of his convictions to have no doubt about it . 
To tell his wife was out of the question it would have grievously offended his friends . 
To have destroyed the will would have been worse still for his friends had suffered for his principles morally , and some of them materially , and had been exiled from Russia . 
He felt himself bound to them . 
If she asked him what it was that he was concealing from her , he would either have to say nothing or to tell her the truth . 
So it came about that the long cherished dream of leaving Yasnaya Polyana presented itself as the only means of escape . 
It was certainly not in order to enjoy the full realization of his dream that he left his home he went away only as a choice of evils . 
I am too feeble and too old to begin a new life , he had said to my brother Sergei only a few days before his departure . 
To fly , to fly ! he said in his deathbed delirium as he lay at Astapova . 
I confess that my explanation of my father's flight by no means exhausts the question . 
Life is complex and every explanation of a man's conduct is bound to suffer from one sidedness . 
Besides , there are circumstances of which I do not care to speak at the present moment , in order not to cause unnecessary pain to people still living . 
It may be that if those who were about my father during the last years of his life had known what they were doing , things would have turned out differently . 
The accumulated incrustations which hide the truth will pass away . 
Much will be wiped out and forgotten . 
Among other things my father's will will be forgotten that will which he himself looked upon as an unnecessary outward means . 
And men will see more clearly that legacy of love and truth in which he believed deeply , and which , according to his own words , cannot perish without a trace . 
What a terrible misunderstanding ! he said . 
Each loved the other with such poignant affection , each was suffering all the time on the other's behalf , and then this terrible ending ! . 
I see the hand of fate in this . 
