This Etext was created by Donald Lainson charlie idirect . 
com I've left in archaic forms such as 'to morrow' or 'to day' as they occured in my copy . 
Also please be aware if spell checking , that within dialog many 'mispelled' words exist , i . 
'wery' for 'very' , as intended by the author . 
The raven in this story is a compound of two great originals , of whom I was , at different times , the proud possessor . 
The first was in the bloom of his youth , when he was discovered in a modest retirement in London , by a friend of mine , and given to me . 
He had from the first , as Sir Hugh Evans says of Anne Page , 'good gifts' , which he improved by study and attention in a most exemplary manner . 
He was rapidly rising in acquirements and virtues , when , in an evil hour , his stable was newly painted . 
He observed the workmen closely , saw that they were careful of the paint , and immediately burned to possess it . 
On their going to dinner , he ate up all they had left behind , consisting of a pound or two of white lead and this youthful indiscretion terminated in death . 
But I could hardly have respected him more , whatever the stimulating influences of this sight might have been . 
He kept his eye to the last upon the meat as it roasted , and suddenly . 
turned over on his back with a sepulchral cry of 'Cuckoo ! Since then I have been ravenless . 
But perhaps we do not know it in our hearts too well , to profit by even so humble an example as the 'No Popery' riots of Seventeen Hundred and Eighty . 
Mr Dennis's allusions to the flourishing condition of his trade in those days , have their foundation in Truth , and not in the Author's fancy . 
Any file of old Newspapers , or odd volume of the Annual Register , will prove this with terrible ease . 
Even the case of Mary Jones , dwelt upon with so much pleasure by the same character , is no effort of invention . 
The facts were stated , exactly as they are stated here , in the House of Commons . 
Whether they afforded as much entertainment to the merry gentlemen assembled there , as some other most affecting circumstances of a similar nature mentioned by Sir Samuel Romilly , is not recorded . 
The woman's husband was pressed , their goods seized for some debts of his , and she , with two small children , turned into the streets a begging . 
It is a circumstance not to be forgotten , that she was very young , and most remarkably handsome . 
Its windows were old diamond pane lattices , its floors were sunken and uneven , its ceilings blackened by the hand of time , and heavy with massive beams . 
There were more pigeons about the dreary stable yard and out buildings than anybody but the landlord could reckon up . 
With its overhanging stories , drowsy little panes of glass , and front bulging out and projecting over the pathway , the old house looked as if it were nodding in its sleep . 
Indeed , it needed no very great stretch of fancy to detect in it other resemblances to humanity . 
No sooner and no later . 
Not before and not arterwards . 
'How do you make out that ? said a little man in the opposite corner . 
'The moon is past the full , and she rises at nine . 
Don't you trouble yourself about her . 
You let the moon alone , and I'll let you alone . 
'No offence I hope ? said the little man . 
This was a young man of about eight and twenty , rather above the middle height , and though of somewhat slight figure , gracefully and strongly made . 
, showed indisputable traces of the bad condition of the roads . 
But travel stained though he was , he was well and even richly attired , and without being overdressed looked a gallant gentleman . 
There , too , were a pair of pistols in a holster case , and a short riding cloak . 
Towards this young gentleman the eyes of Mr Willet wandered but once , and then as if in mute inquiry whether he had observed his silent neighbour . 
It was plain that John and the young gentleman had often met before . 
of a very ready nature , remained staring at his guest in a particularly awkward and disconcerted manner . 
'Well ? said the stranger . 
There was not much in well . 
It was not a long speech . 
'I thought you gave an order , said the landlord , after a pause of two or three minutes for consideration . 
His complexion was of a cadaverous hue , and he had a grizzly jagged beard of some three weeks' date . 
'A highwayman ! whispered Tom Cobb to Parkes the ranger . 
'Do you suppose highwaymen don't dress handsomer than that ? replied Parkes . 
'It's a better business than you think for , Tom , and highwaymen don't need or use to be shabby , take my word for it . 
'Public house , father ! exclaimed Joe , 'where's the public house within a mile or so of the Maypole ? He means the great house the Warren naturally and of course . 
The old red brick house , sir , that stands in its own grounds ? 'Aye , said the stranger . 
'Maybe , was the reply . 
'But my question related to the owner . 
What it has been I don't care to know , and what it is I can see for myself . 
'I turned out of my way coming here , and took the footpath that crosses the grounds . 
Whew ! There's the wind again AND rain well it IS a night ! Rough weather indeed ! observed the strange man . 
'You're used to it ? said Joe , catching at anything which seemed to promise a diversion of the subject . 
'Pretty well , returned the other . 
Perhaps she may be his daughter , though he is not married . 
At length Joe returned very talkative and conciliatory , as though with a strong presentiment that he was going to be found fault with . 
'Such a thing as love is ! he said , drawing a chair near the fire , and looking round for sympathy . 
'He has set off to walk to London , all the way to London . 
and that's the whole difference . 
'He is in love then ? said the stranger . 
'He'll never be more in love , and may very easily be less . 
'Silence , sir ! cried his father . 
'What a chap you are , Joe ! said Long Parkes . 
'Such a inconsiderate lad ! murmured Tom Cobb . 
'Putting himself forward and wringing the very nose off his own father's face ! exclaimed the parish clerk , metaphorically . 
'What HAVE I done ? reasoned poor Joe . 
'The proper time , sir ! retorted his father , 'the proper time's no time . 
'Ah to be sure ! muttered Parkes , nodding gravely to the other two who nodded likewise , observing under their breaths that that was the point . 
'The proper time's no time , sir , repeated John Willet 'when I was your age I never talked , I never wanted to talk . 
I listened and improved myself that's what I did . 
'And you'd find your father rather a tough customer in argeyment , Joe , if anybody was to try and tackle him , said Parkes . 
You are right , sir . 
John smoked with a little more dignity and surveyed them in silence . 
'It's all very fine talking , muttered Joe , who had been fidgeting in his chair with divers uneasy gestures . 
'But if you mean to tell me that I'm never to open my lips 'Silence , sir ! roared his father . 
'No , you never are . 
When your opinion's wanted , you give it . 
When you're spoke to , you speak . 
When your opinion's not wanted and you're not spoke to , don't you give an opinion and don't you speak . 
The world's undergone a nice alteration since my time , certainly . 
'If it's godly and righteous for boys , being of the ages of boys , to behave themselves like boys , then the young princes must be boys and cannot be otherwise . 
'Did you ever hear tell of mermaids , sir ? said Mr Willet . 
'Certainly I have , replied the clerk . 
'Very good , said Mr Willet . 
'According to the constitution of mermaids , so much of a mermaid as is not a woman must be a fish . 
as is not actually an angel , must be godly and righteous . 
that they should be boys , they are and must be boys , and cannot by possibility be anything else . 
Miss Haredale is Mr Geoffrey Haredale's niece . 
'Is her father alive ? said the man , carelessly . 
'No , rejoined the landlord , 'he is not alive , and he is not dead 'Not dead ! cried the other . 
'Not dead in a common sort of way , said the landlord . 
The stranger suffered a short pause to elapse , and then asked abruptly , 'What do you mean ? 'More than you think for , friend , returned John Willet . 
'Perhaps there's more meaning in them words than you suspect . 
To tell you the truth , you may do that easily for so far as I can make out , you mean nothing . 
That story is Solomon Daisy's story . 
It belongs to the house and nobody but Solomon Daisy has ever told it under this roof , or ever shall that's more . 
'Cobb , said Solomon Daisy , dropping his voice and appealing to the post office keeper 'what day of the month is this ? 'The nineteenth . 
'Of March , said the clerk , bending forward , 'the nineteenth of March that's very strange . 
His lady was lately dead , and he was left with one child the Miss Haredale you have been inquiring about who was then scarcely a year old . 
The rest stopped behind up in London , and were to follow next day . 
The clerk felt and understood it , and pursued his theme accordingly . 
, started out with a lighted lantern in one hand and the key of the church in the other . 
At this point of the narrative , the dress of the strange man rustled as if he had turned himself to hear more distinctly . 
Slightly pointing over his shoulder , Solomon elevated his eyebrows and nodded a silent inquiry to Joe whether this was the case . 
Joe shaded his eyes with his hand and peered into the corner , but could make out nothing , and so shook his head . 
'I sat down to trim the candle , and when I had done so I could not persuade myself to get up again , and go about my work . 
, all the dead people came out of the ground and sat at the heads of their own graves till morning . 
All this time I sat listening and listening , and hardly dared to breathe . 
At length I started up and took the bell rope in my hands . 
It was only for an instant , and even then the wind carried the sound away , but I heard it . 
I listened for a long time , but it rang no more . 
I had heard of corpse candles , and at last I persuaded myself that this must be a corpse bell tolling of itself at midnight for the dead . 
I tolled my bell how , or how long , I don't know and ran home to bed as fast as I could touch the ground . 
'I was up early next morning after a restless night , and told the story to my neighbours . 
Some were serious and some made light of it I don't think anybody believed it real . 
'That was the bell I heard . 
'A bureau was found opened , and a cash box , which Mr Haredale had brought down that day , and was supposed to contain a large sum of money , was gone . 
The steward and gardener were both missing and both suspected for a long time , but they were never found , though hunted far and wide . 
Everybody now knew that the gardener must be the murderer , and though he has never been heard of from that day to this , he will be , mark my words . 
The crime was committed this day two and twenty years on the nineteenth of March , one thousand seven hundred and fifty three . 
Chapter 'A strange story ! said the man who had been the cause of the narration . 
'Stranger still if it comes about as you predict . 
Is that all ? A question so unexpected , nettled Solomon Daisy not a little . 
'Is that all ? he repeated , 'yes , that's all , sir . 
And enough too , I think . 
My horse , young man ! He is but a hack hired from a roadside posting house , but he must carry me to London to night . 
'To night ! said Joe . 
'To night , returned the other . 
Surely you have been asked such a harmless question in an inn before , and in better weather than this . 
I thought you mightn't know the way , as you seem strange to this part . 
'The way repeated the other , irritably . 
DO you know it ? 'I'll humph ! I'll find it , replied the nian , waving his hand and turning on his heel . 
'Landlord , take the reckoning here . 
was protecting himself and the horse from the rain under the shelter of an old penthouse roof . 
'He's pretty much of my opinion , said Joe , patting the horse upon the neck . 
'I'll wager that your stopping here to night would please him better than it would please me . 
'He and I are of different opinions , as we have been more than once on our way here , was the short reply . 
'So I was thinking before you came out , for he has felt your spurs , poor beast . 
The stranger adjusted his coat collar about his face , and made no answer . 
'You'll know me again , I see , he said , marking the young fellow's earnest gaze , when he had sprung into the saddle . 
'You have sharp eyes and a sharp tongue , I find . 
'Both I hope by nature , but the last grows rusty sometimes for want of using . 
'Use the first less too , and keep their sharpness for your sweethearts , boy , said the man . 
The roads , even within twelve miles of London , were at that time ill paved , seldom repaired , and very badly made . 
Sharp flints and stones rolled from under his hoofs continually the rider could scarcely see beyond the animal's head , or farther on either side than his own arm would have extended . 
'Yoho ! cried the voice of a man . 
'What's that ? Who goes there ? 'A friend ! replied the traveller . 
'A friend ! repeated the voice . 
but the necks of other people ? 'You have a lantern there , I see , said the traveller dismounting , 'lend it me for a moment . 
You have wounded my horse , I think , with your shaft or wheel . 
'Wounded him ! cried the other , 'if I haven't killed him , it's no fault of yours . 
'If you had said you were in no mood for talking before , I should perhaps have been in no mood for lighting , said the voice . 
'Hows'ever as it's the poor horse that's damaged and not you , one of you is welcome to the light at all events but it's not the crusty one . 
The traveller returned no answer to this speech , but holding the light near to his panting and reeking beast , examined him in limb and carcass . 
'He is not hurt , said the traveller at length , raising his head and the lantern together . 
'You have found that out at last , have you ? rejoined the old man . 
'My eyes have seen more light than yours , but I wouldn't change with you . 
'What do you mean ? 'Mean ! I could have told you he wasn't hurt , five minutes ago . 
Give me the light , friend ride forward at a gentler pace and good night . 
In handing up the lantern , the man necessarily cast its rays full on the speaker's face . 
Their eyes met at the instant . 
He suddenly dropped it and crushed it with his foot . 
When I travel them , I carry nothing but a few shillings , and not a crown's worth of them . 
You shall not have it all your own way , I promise you , if you play at that game . 
With these words he stood upon the defensive . 
'I am not what you take me for , Gabriel Varden , replied the other . 
'Then what and who are you ? returned the locksmith . 
'You know my name , it seems . 
'I have not gained the information from any confidence of yours , but from the inscription on your cart which tells it to all the town , replied the traveller . 
'You have better eyes for that than you had for your horse , then , said Varden , descending nimbly from his chaise 'who are you ? Let me see your face . 
'Let me see your face , I say . 
'Stand off ! 'No masquerading tricks , said the locksmith , 'and tales at the club to morrow , how Gabriel Varden was frightened by a surly voice and a dark night . 
Stand let me see your face . 
Perhaps two men more powerfully contrasted , never opposed each other face to face . 
Thus they regarded each other for some time , in silence . 
'Humph ! he said when he had scanned his features 'I don't know you . 
'Don't desire to ? returned the other , muffling himself as before . 
'I don't , said Gabriel 'to be plain with you , friend , you don't carry in your countenance a letter of recommendation . 
'It's not my wish , said the traveller . 
'My humour is to be avoided . 
'Well , said the locksmith bluntly , 'I think you'll have your humour . 
'I will , at any cost , rejoined the traveller . 
'Aye ! and a violent death . 
'From whose hand ? 'From mine , replied the traveller . 
He tried to look stoically at the tavern , but his features would relax into a look of fondness . 
He turned his head the other way , and the cold black country seemed to frown him off , and drive him for a refuge into its hospitable arms . 
'The merciful man , Joe , said the locksmith , 'is merciful to his beast . 
I'll get out for a little while . 
'So we all do , I suppose , don't we ? observed the locksmith . 
'I don't , said Joe . 
He struck me with his whip , the coward , when he was mounted and I afoot , and I should be better pleased that he turned out what I think him . 
'And what may that be , Joe ? 'No good , Mr Varden . 
'Hold your tongue , sir , said John Willet . 
It's all along of you that he ventured to do what he did . 
But he's mistaken , as I'll show him , and as I'll show all of you before long . 
'Does the boy know what he's a saying of ! cried the astonished John Willet . 
'Father , returned Joe , 'I know what I say and mean , well better than you do when you hear me . 
I can bear with you , but I cannot bear the contempt that your treating me in the way you do , brings upon me from others every day . 
Look at other young men of my age . 
This advice was received as such advice usually is . 
'Roving stones gather no moss , Joe , said Gabriel . 
'Nor milestones much , replied Joe . 
'I'm little better than one here , and see as much of the world . 
'Then , what would you do , Joe ? pursued the locksmith , stroking his chin reflectively . 
'What could you be ? Where could you go , you see ? 'I must trust to chance , Mr Varden . 
'A bad thing to trust to , Joe . 
She looks pretty enough to be well , and good too . 
It'll be a better story then . 
'Why who should I tell it to ? returned Gabriel . 
'They know it here , and I'm not likely to come across anybody else who would care about it . 
'That's true enough , said the young fellow with a sigh . 
'Good night ! cried Gabriel . 
Thinking begets , not only thought , but drowsiness occasionally , and the more the locksmith thought , the more sleepy he became . 
It is not surprising , therefore , that he soon relapsed , and jogged heavily along , quite insensible to his progress . 
Approaching nearer and nearer yet , this halo began to fade , and the causes which produced it slowly to develop themselves . 
Thoroughly aroused , Gabriel , who was a bold man and not easily daunted , made straight to the spot , urging on his stout little horse as if for life or death . 
'What's here to do ? said the old man , alighting . 
'You know me , Barnaby ? said Varden . 
'There's blood upon him , said Barnaby with a shudder . 
'It makes me sick ! 'How came it there ? demanded Varden . 
'Steel , steel , steel ! he replied fiercely , imitating with his hand the thrust of a sword . 
'Is he robbed ? said the locksmith . 
Barnaby caught him by the arm , and nodded 'Yes then pointed towards the city . 
'Oh ! said the old man , bending over the body and looking round as he spoke into Barnaby's pale face , strangely lighted up by something that was NOT intellect . 
'The robber made off that way , did he ? Well , well , never mind that just now . 
Hold your torch this way a little farther off so . 
Now stand quiet , while I try to see what harm is done . 
He was about three and twenty years old , and though rather spare , of a fair height and strong make . 
Startling as his aspect was , the features were good , and there was something even plaintive in his wan and haggard aspect . 
But , the absence of the soul is far more terrible in a living man than in a dead one and in this unfortunate being its noblest powers were wanting . 
A pair of tawdry ruffles dangled at his wrists , while his throat was nearly bare . 
He had ornamented his hat with a cluster of peacock's feathers , but they were limp and broken , and now trailed negligently down his back . 
Girt to his side was the steel hilt of an old sword without blade or scabbard and some particoloured ends of ribands and poor glass toys completed the ornamental portion of his attire . 
'I know him , I know him ! cried Barnaby , clapping his hands . 
'Know him ? repeated the locksmith . 
'Hush ! said Barnaby , laying his fingers upon his lips . 
'He went out to day a wooing . 
Barnaby , my man , help me to put him in the chaise , and we'll ride home together . 
Barnaby good Barnaby dear Barnaby if you know this gentleman , for the sake of his life and everybody's life that loves him , help me to raise him and lay him down . 
'Cover him then , wrap him close don't let me see it smell it hear the word . 
Don't speak the word don't ! 'No , no , I'll not . 
There , you see he's covered now . 
At the time of which it treats , though only six and sixty years ago , a very large part of what is London now had no existence . 
Although this part of town was then , as now , parcelled out in streets , and plentifully peopled , it wore a different aspect . 
Fields were nigh at hand , through which the New River took its winding course , and where there was merry haymaking in the summer time . 
Behind this shop was a wainscoted parlour , looking first into a paved yard , and beyond that again into a little terrace garden , raised some feet above it . 
With all these oddities , there was not a neater , more scrupulously tidy , or more punctiliously ordered house , in Clerkenwell , in London , in all England . 
After a long and patient contemplation of the golden key , and many such backward glances , Gabriel stepped into the road , and stole a look at the upper windows . 
'Hush ! she whispered , bending forward and pointing archly to the window underneath . 
'Still , my dear , returned the locksmith in the same tone . 
'You talk as if she had been asleep all night , instead of little more than half an hour . 
Sleep's a blessing no doubt about it . 
The last few words he muttered to himself . 
'How cruel of you to keep us up so late this morning , and never tell us where you were , or send us word ! said the girl . 
She must be tired , I am sure I am . 
'Listening again , Simon ! said Gabriel to himself . 
'There's enough of that just now , said the locksmith . 
'You needn't make any more of that confounded clatter . 
'Sir , said Sim , looking up with amazing politeness , and a peculiar little bow cut short off at the neck , 'I shall attend you immediately . 
He also had some majestic , shadowy ideas , which had never been quite fathomed by his intimate friends , concerning the power of his eye . 
It may be inferred from these premises , that in the small body of Mr Tappertit there was locked up an ambitious and aspiring soul . 
In respect of dress and personal decoration , Sim Tappertit was no less of an adventurous and enterprising character . 
Fathers should never kiss their daughters when young men are by . 
There are bounds to human endurance . 
So thought Sim Tappertit when Gabriel drew those rosy lips to his those lips within Sim's reach from day to day , and yet so far off . 
He had a respect for his master , but he wished the Yorkshire cake might choke him . 
'Young Mr Chester robbed , and lying wounded in the road , when you came up ! 'Ay Mr Edward . 
And beside him , Barnaby , calling for help with all his might . 
'I dread to think of it ! cried his daughter with a shudder . 
'How did you know him ? 'Know him ! returned the locksmith . 
'I didn't know him how could I ? I had never seen him , often as I had heard and spoken of him . 
I took him to Mrs Rudge's and she no sooner saw him than the truth came out . 
'Miss Emma , father If this news should reach her , enlarged upon as it is sure to be , she will go distracted . 
'Why , lookye there again , how a man suffers for being good natured , said the locksmith . 
'Miss Emma was with her uncle at the masquerade at Carlisle House , where she had gone , as the people at the Warren told me , sorely against her will . 
'And like himself to do so ! cried the girl , putting her fair arm round his neck , and giving him a most enthusiastic kiss . 
'Like himself ! repeated Gabriel , affecting to grumble , but evidently delighted with the part he had taken , and with her praise . 
'Very like himself so your mother said . 
'And that was she ? said his daughter hastily . 
'What did you do what happened next ? asked his daughter . 
'Why , the masks came flocking round , with a general noise and hubbub , and I thought myself in luck to get clear off , that's all , rejoined the locksmith . 
'What happened when I reached home you may guess , if you didn't hear it . 
Ah ! Well , it's a poor heart that never rejoices . 
Put Toby this way , my dear . 
This Toby was the brown jug of which previous mention has been made . 
'Why , what the devil's the matter with the lad ? cried the locksmith . 
'Is he choking ? 'Who ? demanded Sim , with some disdain . 
'Who ? Why , you , returned his master . 
'Sim , rejoined Gabriel , laughing heartily . 
'Don't be a fool , for I'd rather see you in your senses . 
These young fellows , he added , turning to his daughter , 'are always committing some folly or another . 
There was a quarrel between Joe Willet and old John last night though I can't say Joe was much in fault either . 
He'll be missing one of these mornings , and will have gone away upon some wild goose errand , seeking his fortune . 
Why , what's the matter , Doll ? YOU are making faces now . 
Mr Tappertit looked immensely big at a quartern loaf on the table , and breathed hard . 
'Is that all ? returned the locksmith . 
'Put some more milk in it . 
Yes , I am sorry for Joe , because he is a likely young fellow , and gains upon one every time one sees him . 
But he'll start off , you'll find . 
Indeed he told me as much himself ! 'Indeed ! cried Dolly in a faint voice . 
'In deed ! 'Is the tea tickling your throat still , my dear ? said the locksmith . 
Like some other ladies who in remote ages flourished upon this globe , Mrs Varden was most devout when most ill tempered . 
Whenever she and her husband were at unusual variance , then the Protestant Manual was in high feather . 
Indeed the big look increased immensely , and when he had tied his apron on , became quite gigantic . 
No. It could not be done . 
'I'll do nothing to day , said Mr Tappertit , dashing it down again , 'but grind . 
I'll grind up all the tools . 
Grinding will suit my present humour well . 
Joe ! Whirr r r r . 
The grindstone was soon in motion the sparks were flying off in showers . 
This was the occupation for his heated spirit . 
Whirr r r r r r r . 
'Something will come of this ! said Mr Tappertit , pausing as if in triumph , and wiping his heated face upon his sleeve . 
'Something will come of this . 
I hope it mayn't be human gore ! Whirr r r r r r r r . 
Chapter As soon as the business of the day was over , the locksmith sallied forth , alone , to visit the wounded gentleman and ascertain the progress of his recovery . 
The evening was boisterous scarcely better than the previous night had been . 
'A trying night for a man like me to walk in ! said the locksmith , as he knocked softly at the widow's door . 
'I'd rather be in old John's chimney corner , faith ! 'Who's there ? demanded a woman's voice from within . 
Being answered , it added a hasty word of welcome , and the door was quickly opened . 
She was about forty perhaps two or three years older with a cheerful aspect , and a face that had once been pretty . 
It bore traces of affliction and care , but they were of an old date , and Time had smoothed them . 
One thing about this face was very strange and startling . 
You could not look upon it in its most cheerful mood without feeling that it had some extraordinary capacity of expressing terror . 
It was not on the surface . 
It was in no one feature that it lingered . 
You could not take the eyes or mouth , or lines upon the cheek , and say , if this or that were otherwise , it would not be so . 
Yet there it always lurked something for ever dimly seen , but ever there , and never absent for a moment . 
More faintly imaged , and wanting force and purpose , as it were , because of his darkened intellect , there was this same stamp upon the son . 
Seen in a picture , it must have had some legend with it , and would have haunted those who looked upon the canvas . 
They who knew the Maypole story , and could remember what the widow was , before her husband's and his master's murder , understood it well . 
'God save you , neighbour ! said the locksmith , as he followed her , with the air of an old friend , into a little parlour where a cheerful fire was burning . 
'And you , she answered smiling . 
'Your kind heart has brought you here again . 
Nothing will keep you at home , I know of old , if there are friends to serve or comfort , out of doors . 
'Tut , tut , returned the locksmith , rubbing his hands and warming them . 
'You women are such talkers . 
What of the patient , neighbour ? 'He is sleeping now . 
He was very restless towards daylight , and for some hours tossed and tumbled sadly . 
But the fever has left him , and the doctor says he will soon mend . 
He must not be removed until to morrow . 
'He has had visitors to day humph ? said Gabriel , slyly . 
Old Mr Chester has been here ever since we sent for him , and had not been gone many minutes when you knocked . 
'No ladies ? said Gabriel , elevating his eyebrows and looking disappointed . 
'A letter , replied the widow . 
That's better than nothing ! replied the locksmith . 
'Who was the bearer ? 'Barnaby , of course . 
'Barnaby's a jewel ! said Varden 'and comes and goes with ease where we who think ourselves much wiser would make but a poor hand of it . 
He was quite tired out . 
To my mind he grows wiser every day . 
The widow shook her head . 
'He will be a 'cute man yet , resumed the locksmith . 
'Take care , when we are growing old and foolish , Barnaby doesn't put us to the blush , that's all . 
'Ah ! He's a knowing blade ! said Varden , shaking his head . 
'I should be sorry to talk secrets before him . 
Oh ! He's a deep customer . 
I've no doubt he can read , and write , and cast accounts if he chooses . 
What was that ? Him tapping at the door ? 'No , returned the widow . 
'It was in the street , I think . 
There again ! 'Tis some one knocking softly at the shutter . 
'Some thief or ruffian maybe , said the locksmith . 
'No , no , she returned hastily . 
'Such visitors have never come to this poor dwelling . 
You're within call , at the worst . 
I would rather go myself alone . 
'Why ? said the locksmith , unwillingly relinquishing the candle he had caught up from the table . 
'Because I don't know why because the wish is so strong upon me , she rejoined . 
She left the room and closed the door behind her . 
She stood for a moment as if hesitating , with her hand upon the lock . 
The words were uttered in that low distinct voice which finds its way so readily to sleepers' ears , and wakes them in a fright . 
For a moment it startled even the locksmith who involuntarily drew back from the window , and listened . 
He rushed out upon the instant . 
There , at last , was that dreadful look the very one he seemed to know so well and yet had never seen before upon her face . 
His eyes met those of the locksmith . 
It was but a flash , an instant , a breath upon a polished glass , and he was gone . 
The locksmith was upon him had the skirts of his streaming garment almost in his grasp when his arms were tightly clutched , and the widow flung herself upon the ground before him . 
'The other way the other way , she cried . 
'He went the other way . 
Turn turn ! 'The other way ! I see him now , rejoined the locksmith , pointing 'yonder there there is his shadow passing by that light . 
What who is this ? Let me go . 
'Come back , come back ! exclaimed the woman , clasping him 'Do not touch him on your life . 
I charge you , come back . 
He carries other lives besides his own . 
Come back ! 'What does this mean ? cried the locksmith . 
'No matter what it means , don't ask , don't speak , don't think about it . 
He is not to be followed , checked , or stopped . 
'You are ill , said Gabriel . 
'Let me call some neighbour in . 
'Not for the world , she rejoined , motioning to him with her trembling hand , and holding her face averted . 
'It is enough that you have been by , to see this . 
'Nay , more than enough or less , said Gabriel . 
'Be it so , she returned . 
Ask me no questions , I entreat you . 
'Neighbour , said the locksmith , after a pause . 
'I am growing old , both in years and care . 
Perhaps that , and too much trial , have made them weaker than they used to be . 
Do not speak to me . 
'How can I see what I have seen , and hold my peace ! returned the locksmith . 
'His shadow has been upon it and me , in light and darkness , at noonday and midnight . 
What riddle is this ? 'It is one , she answered , rising as she spoke , 'that must remain for ever as it is . 
I dare not say more than that . 
'Dare not ! repeated the wondering locksmith . 
'Do not press me , she replied . 
'I am sick and faint , and every faculty of life seems dead within me . 
No ! Do not touch me , either . 
Gabriel , who had stepped forward to render her assistance , fell back as she made this hasty exclamation , and regarded her in silent wonder . 
'Let me go my way alone , she said in a low voice , 'and let the hands of no honest man touch mine to night . 
When she had tottered to the door , she turned , and added with a stronger effort , 'This is a secret , which , of necessity , I trust to you . 
You are a true man . 
As you have ever been good and kind to me , keep it . 
If any noise was heard above , make some excuse say anything but what you really saw , and never let a word or look between us , recall this circumstance . 
Mind , I trust to you . 
How much I trust , you never can conceive . 
Casting her eyes upon him for an instant , she withdrew , and left him there alone . 
Gabriel , not knowing what to think , stood staring at the door with a countenance full of surprise and dismay . 
The more he pondered on what had passed , the less able he was to give it any favourable interpretation . 
Her reliance on his secrecy , and his tacit acquiescence , increased his distress of mind . 
'I have no more readiness than old John himself . 
I can be obstinate enough with men if need be , but women may twist me round their fingers at their pleasure . 
'And yet , said the locksmith , softening under this soothing process , and stopping to smile , 'it MAY be nothing . 
Any drunken brawler trying to make his way into the house , would have alarmed a quiet soul like her . 
'Sure enough it's Barnaby how did you guess ? 'By your shadow , said the locksmith . 
'Oho ! cried Barnaby , glancing over his shoulder , 'He's a merry fellow , that shadow , and keeps close to me , though I AM silly . 
Oh ! he's a merry fellow . 
Tell me is he silly too ? I think he is . 
'Because be never tires of mocking me , but does it all day long . 
Why don't you come ? 'Where ? 'Upstairs . 
Stay where's HIS shadow ? Come . 
You're a wise man tell me that . 
'Beside him , Barnaby beside him , I suppose , returned the locksmith . 
'No ! he replied , shaking his head . 
'Gone out a walking , maybe ? 'He has changed shadows with a woman , the idiot whispered in his ear , and then fell back with a look of triumph . 
'Her shadow's always with him , and his with her . 
That's sport I think , eh ? 'Barnaby , said the locksmith , with a grave look 'come hither , lad . 
'I know what you want to say . 
I know ! he replied , keeping away from him . 
'But I'm cunning , I'm silent . 
I only say so much to you are you ready ? As he spoke , he caught up the light , and waved it with a wild laugh above his head . 
'Softly gently , said the locksmith , exerting all his influence to keep him calm and quiet . 
'I thought you had been asleep . 
'So I HAVE been asleep , he rejoined , with widely opened eyes . 
'Dreams ! he echoed softly , drawing closer to him . 
Did you ever see me run ? 'Many a time , you know . 
'You never saw me run as I did in this dream . 
Still it came creeping on to worry me . 
Nearer , nearer , nearer I ran faster leaped sprung out of bed , and to the window and there , in the street below but he is waiting for us . 
Are you coming ? 'What in the street below , Barnaby ? said Varden , imagining that he traced some connection between this vision and what had actually occurred . 
They entered a homely bedchamber , garnished in a scanty way with chairs , whose spindle shanks bespoke their age , and other furniture of very little worth but clean and neatly kept . 
'Say no more , sir , say no more , said Gabriel . 
'I hope I would have done at least as much for any man in such a strait , and most of all for you , sir . 
Be seated , Mr Varden . 
Barnaby is not in his quietest humour to night , and at such times talking never does him good . 
'Pray , tell me , sir , said Varden , dropping his voice still lower , 'exactly what happened last night . 
I have my reason for inquiring . 
You left the Maypole , alone ? 'And walked homeward alone , until I had nearly reached the place where you found me , when I heard the gallop of a horse . 
'Behind you ? said the locksmith . 
'Indeed , yes behind me . 
It was a single rider , who soon overtook me , and checking his horse , inquired the way to London . 
'You were on the alert , sir , knowing how many highwaymen there are , scouring the roads in all directions ? said Varden . 
'I was , but I had only a stick , having imprudently left my pistols in their holster case with the landlord's son . 
I directed him as he desired . 
Before the words had passed my lips , he rode upon me furiously , as if bent on trampling me down beneath his horse's hoofs . 
In starting aside , I slipped and fell . 
You found me with this stab and an ugly bruise or two , and without my purse in which he found little enough for his pains . 
What like was he , sir ? Speak low , if you please . 
Barnaby means no harm , but I have watched him oftener than you , and I know , little as you would think it , that he's listening now . 
'The night was so dark , said Edward , 'the attack so sudden , and he so wrapped and muffled up , that I can hardly say . 
It seems that 'Don't mention his name , sir , returned the locksmith , following his look towards Barnaby 'I know HE saw him . 
I want to know what YOU saw . 
'All I remember is , said Edward , 'that as he checked his horse his hat was blown off . 
He caught it , and replaced it on his head , which I observed was bound with a dark handkerchief . 
'It is as I feared . 
The very man was here to night , thought the locksmith , changing colour . 
'What dark history is this ! 'Halloa ! cried a hoarse voice in his ear . 
'Halloa , halloa , halloa ! Bow wow wow . 
'Look at him ! said Varden , divided between admiration of the bird and a kind of fear of him . 
'Halloa , halloa , halloa ! What's the matter here ! Keep up your spirits . 
I'm a devil , I'm a devil , I'm a devil . 
Hurrah ! And then , as if exulting in his infernal character , he began to whistle . 
'I more than half believe he speaks the truth . 
Upon my word I do , said Varden . 
Barnaby clapped his hands , and fairly rolled upon the ground in an ecstasy of delight . 
'Strange companions , sir , said the locksmith , shaking his head , and looking from one to the other . 
'The bird has all the wit . 
'Strange indeed ! said Edward , holding out his forefinger to the raven , who , in acknowledgment of the attention , made a dive at it immediately with his iron bill . 
'Is he old ? 'A mere boy , sir , replied the locksmith . 
'A hundred and twenty , or thereabouts . 
Call him down , Barnaby , my man . 
'Call him ! echoed Barnaby , sitting upright upon the floor , and staring vacantly at Gabriel , as he thrust his hair back from his face . 
'But who can make him come ! He calls me , and makes me go where he will . 
He goes on before , and I follow . 
He's the master , and I'm the man . 
'I make HIM come ? cried Barnaby , pointing to the bird . 
I make HIM come ! Ha ha ha ! On second thoughts , the bird appeared disposed to come of himself . 
As he raised his eyes from the poor fellow he encountered those of his mother , who had entered the room , and was looking on in silence . 
She was quite white in the face , even to her lips , but had wholly subdued her emotion , and wore her usual quiet look . 
Varden fancied as he glanced at her that she shrunk from his eye and that she busied herself about the wounded gentleman to avoid him the better . 
It was time he went to bed , she said . 
He was to be removed to his own home on the morrow , and he had already exceeded his time for sitting up , by a full hour . 
Acting on this hint , the locksmith prepared to take his leave . 
What was it ? The locksmith looked towards her , and bit his lip . 
She leant against the chair , and bent her eyes upon the ground . 
Barnaby too he was listening . 
'Some mad or drunken fellow , sir , Varden at length made answer , looking steadily at the widow as he spoke . 
'He mistook the house , and tried to force an entrance . 
She breathed more freely , but stood quite motionless . 
The raven followed them to satisfy himself that all was right below , and when they reached the street door , stood on the bottom stair drawing corks out of number . 
With a trembling hand she unfastened the chain and bolts , and turned the key . 
I hope I may have done no harm , or led to none . 
I can't help the suspicions you have forced upon me , and I am loth , I tell you plainly , to leave Mr Edward here . 
Take care he comes to no hurt . 
I doubt the safety of this roof , and am glad he leaves it so soon . 
Now , let me go . 
As the locksmith stood upon the step , it was chained and locked behind him , and the raven , in furtherance of these precautions , barked like a lusty house dog . 
'Heaven forgive me if I am wrong , and send me just thoughts but she is poor , the temptation may be great , and we daily hear of things as strange . 
Ay , bark away , my friend . 
If there's any wickedness going on , that raven's in it , I'll be sworn . 
Chapter Mrs Varden was a lady of what is commonly called an uncertain temper a phrase which being interpreted signifies a temper tolerably certain to make everybody more or less uncomfortable . 
Thus it generally happened , that when other people were merry , Mrs Varden was dull and that when other people were dull , Mrs Varden was disposed to be amazingly cheerful . 
What , already , sir ! said Miggs , opening the door with a look of surprise . 
'We were just getting on our nightcaps to sit up , me and mistress . 
'Master's come home , mim , cried Miggs , running before him into the parlour . 
'You was wrong , mim , and I was right . 
I thought he wouldn't keep us up so late , two nights running , mim . 
Master's always considerate so far . 
I'm so glad , mim , on your account . 
I'm a little' here Miggs simpered 'a little sleepy myself I'll own it now , mim , though I said I wasn't when you asked me . 
It ain't of no consequence , mim , of course . 
'You had better , said the locksmith , who most devoutly wished that Barnaby's raven was at Miggs's ankles , 'you had better get to bed at once then . 
'You're talkative , mistress , said Varden , pulling off his greatcoat , and looking at her askew . 
Every little bone in Miggs's throat and neck developed itself with a spitefulness quite alarming , as she replied , 'Yes , mim , I will . 
, and rubbing his knees hard as he made the inquiry . 
'You're very anxious to know , an't you ? returned Mrs Varden , with her eyes upon the print . 
'You , that have not been near me all day , and wouldn't have been if I was dying ! 'My dear Martha said Gabriel . 
I don't doubt it , Varden . 
Miggs groaned in sympathy a little short groan , checked in its birth , and changed into a cough . 
It seemed to say , 'I can't help it . 
It's wrung from me by the dreadful brutality of that monster master . 
'But you'll break my heart one of these days , added Mrs Varden , with more resignation , 'and then we shall both be happy . 
My only desire is to see Dolly comfortably settled , and when she is , you may settle ME as soon as you like . 
'Ah ! cried Miggs and coughed again . 
'No , my dear , I spoke to you , suggested the locksmith . 
'Did you hear me , Miggs ? cried the obdurate lady , stamping her foot upon the ground . 
Her superiority being thoroughly asserted , that lady soon desisted likewise , and fell into a quiet melancholy . 
'Such spirits as you was in too , mim , but half an hour ago ! cried Miggs . 
'Martha , urged the locksmith , endeavouring to look as wakeful as possible , 'what is it you complain of ? I really came home with every wish and desire to be happy . 
'What do I complain of ! retorted his wife . 
'I was really afraid you were not disposed to talk pleasantly I'll tell you everything I shall only be too glad , my dear . 
'No , Varden , returned his wife , rising with dignity . 
'I dare say thank you ! I'm not a child to be corrected one minute and petted the next I'm a little too old for that , Varden . 
Miggs , carry the light . 
Well , well , all of us have our faults . 
I'll not be hard upon hers . 
We have been man and wife too long for that . 
He dozed again not the less pleasantly , perhaps , for his hearty temper . 
While his eyes were closed , the door leading to the upper stairs was partially opened and a head appeared , which , at sight of him , hastily drew back again . 
'I wish , murmured Gabriel , waking at the noise , and looking round the room , 'I wish somebody would marry Miggs . 
At last he roused himself and having double locked the street door according to custom , and put the key in his pocket , went off to bed . 
He had not left the room in darkness many minutes , when the head again appeared , and Sim Tappertit entered , bearing in his hand a little lamp . 
'What the devil business has he to stop up so late ! muttered Sim , passing into the workshop , and setting it down upon the forge . 
'Here's half the night gone already . 
It was not a very choice spot for midnight expeditions , being in truth one of more than questionable character , and of an appearance by no means inviting . 
After listening in vain for some response to his signal , Mr Tappertit became impatient , and struck the grating thrice again . 
A further delay ensued , but it was not of long duration . 
The ground seemed to open at his feet , and a ragged head appeared . 
'Is that the captain ? said a voice as ragged as the head . 
'Lead on , said Mr Tappertit , with a gloomy majesty , 'and make remarks when I require you . 
'Welcome , noble captain ! cried a lanky figure , rising as from a nap . 
Then , throwing off his outer coat , he stood composed in all his dignity , and eyed his follower over . 
'What news to night ? he asked , when he had looked into his very soul . 
'Is the room prepared ? 'It is , replied the follower . 
'The comrade is he here ? 'Yes . 
And a sprinkling of the others you hear 'em ? 'Playing skittles ! said the captain moodily . 
It was naturally damp besides , and little trees of fungus sprung from every mouldering corner . 
'Even Stagg hath been asleep , said the long comrade , nodding towards this person . 
'Boldly said , noble captain ! rejoined the blind man . 
'Spoken like the 'Prentices' Glory . 
Ha , ha ! From the devil's cellar ! A brave joke ! The captain joketh . 
'He's got his eyes on me ! cried Stagg , stopping short on his way back , and affecting to screen his face with the bottle . 
'I feel 'em though I can't see 'em . 
Take 'em off , noble captain . 
Remove 'em , for they pierce like gimlets . 
Death to all masters , life to all 'prentices , and love to all fair damsels . 
Drink , brave general , and warm your gallant heart ! Mr Tappertit condescended to take the glass from his outstretched hand . 
Stagg then dropped on one knee , and gently smoothed the calves of his legs , with an air of humble admiration . 
'Go along , will you , Stagg ! 'When I touch my own afterwards , cried the host , smiting them reproachfully , 'I hate 'em . 
Comparatively speaking , they've no more shape than wooden legs , beside these models of my noble captain's . 
'Yours ! exclaimed Mr Tappertit . 
'No , I should think not . 
Don't talk about those precious old toothpicks in the same breath with mine that's rather too much . 
When the long comrade had made these preparations , he looked towards Mr Tappertit and Mr Tappertit , flourishing the bone , knocked nine times therewith upon one of the skulls . 
At the ninth stroke , a third young gentleman emerged from the door leading to the skittle ground , and bowing low , awaited his commands . 
As this silent group advanced , Mr Tappertit fixed his hat upon his head . 
The novice then laid his hand upon his breast and bent before him . 
When he had humbled himself sufficiently , the captain ordered the bandage to be removed , and proceeded to eye him over . 
'Ha ! said the captain , thoughtfully , when he had concluded this ordeal . 
The long comrade read aloud as follows 'Mark Gilbert . 
Bound to Thomas Curzon , hosier , Golden Fleece , Aldgate . 
Cannot say that Curzon's daughter loves him . 
Curzon pulled his ears last Tuesday week . 
'How ! cried the captain , starting . 
'For looking at his daughter , please you , said the novice . 
'Write Curzon down , Denounced , said the captain . 
'Put a black cross against the name of Curzon . 
'So please you , said the novice , 'that's not the worst he calls his 'prentice idle dog , and stops his beer unless he works to his liking . 
He gives Dutch cheese , too , eating Cheshire , sir , himself and Sundays out , are only once a month . 
'This , said Mr Tappert t gravely , 'is a flagrant case . 
Put two black crosses to the name of Curzon . 
'Which means , he said in gracious explanation , 'vengeance , complete and terrible . 
replied 'I do ! 'The Church , the State , and everything established but the masters ? quoth the captain . 
Again the novice said 'I do . 
He looked with an indifferent eye , alike on skittles , cards , and dice , thinking only of the locksmith's daughter , and the base degenerate days on which he had fallen . 
'My noble captain neither games , nor sings , nor dances , said his host , taking a seat beside him . 
restrained the ardent ball , and held his little shins in dumb respect . 
But to drag out a ignoble existence unbeknown to mankind in general patience ! I will be famous yet . 
A voice within me keeps on whispering Greatness . 
I shall burst out one of these days , and when I do , what power can keep me down ? I feel my soul getting into my head at the idea . 
'One stands beside me who I feel is a stranger . 
With that , he beckoned the new knight apart , and putting the pattern in his pocket , motioned to him to walk by his side . 
'And so , he said , when they had taken a few turns up and down , you you love your master's daughter ? 'I do , said the 'prentice . 
No chaff , you know . 
'If you had now said Mr Tappertit 'what would you eh ? The 'prentice looked fierce and clenched his fists . 
'It is enough , cried Mr Tappertit hastily , 'we understand each other . 
'Good night , noble captain , whispered the blind man as he held it open for his passage out 'Farewell , brave general . 
Bye , bye , illustrious commander . 
Good luck go with you for a conceited , bragging , empty headed , duck legged idiot . 
, and having seen her comfortably to bed in the back room on the first floor , withdrew to her own apartment , in the attic story . 
'Here's mysteries ! said the damsel , when she was safe in her own room again , quite out of breath . 
'Oh , gracious , here's mysteries ! The prospect of finding anybody out in anything , would have kept Miss Miggs awake under the influence of henbane . 
Presently , she heard the step again , as she would have done if it had been that of a feather endowed with motion and walking down on tiptoe . 
Miggs was back in her room , and had her head out of the window , before an elderly gentleman could have winked and recovered from it . 
Out he came at the street door , shut it carefully behind him , tried it with his knee , and swaggered off , putting something in his pocket as he went along . 
At this spectacle Miggs cried 'Gracious ! again , and then 'Goodness gracious ! and then 'Goodness gracious me ! and then , candle in hand , went downstairs as he had done . 
Coming to the workshop , she saw the lamp burning on the forge , and everything as Sim had left it . 
When she had filled it to the brim in a very workmanlike and skilful manner , she crept upstairs again , and chuckled as she went . 
'There ! cried Miggs , rubbing her hands , 'now let's see whether you won't be glad to take some notice of me , mister . 
He , he , he ! You'll have eyes for somebody besides Miss Dolly now , I think . 
She sat there , with perfect composure , all night . 
At length , just upon break of day , there was a footstep in the street , and presently she could hear Mr Tappertit stop at the door . 
Mr Tappertit cried 'Hush ! and , backing to the road , exhorted her in frenzied pantomime to secrecy and silence . 
'Tell me one thing , said Miggs . 
'Is it thieves ? 'No no no ! cried Mr Tappertit . 
'Then , said Miggs , more faintly than before , 'it's fire . 
Where is it , sir ? It's near this room , I know . 
I've a good conscience , sir , and would much rather die than go down a ladder . 
All I wish is , respecting my love to my married sister , Golden Lion Court , number twenty sivin , second bell handle on the right hand door post . 
'Miggs ! cried Mr Tappertit , 'don't you know me ? Sim , you know Sim 'Oh ! what about him ! cried Miggs , clasping her hands . 
'Don't you see me ? What a fool you are , Miggs ! 'There ! cried Miggs , unmindful of this compliment . 
'Don't ! I've been out without leave , and something or another's the matter with the lock . 
Come down , and undo the shop window , that I may get in that way . 
'I dursn't do it , Simmun , cried Miggs for that was her pronunciation of his Christian name . 
'I dursn't do it , indeed . 
You know as well as anybody , how particular I am . 
And to come down in the dead of night , when the house is wrapped in slumbers and weiled in obscurity . 
And there she stopped and shivered , for her modesty caught cold at the very thought . 
'But Miggs , cried Mr Tappertit , getting under the lamp , that she might see his eyes . 
'My darling Miggs Miggs screamed slightly . 
'Oh Simmun , cried Miggs , 'this is worse than all . 
I know if I come down , you'll go , and 'And what , my precious ? said Mr Tappertit . 
'And try , said Miggs , hysterically , 'to kiss me , or some such dreadfulness I know you will ! 'I swear I won't , said Mr Tappertit , with remarkable earnestness . 
'Upon my soul I won't . 
It's getting broad day , and the watchman's waking up . 
Angelic Miggs ! If you'll only come and let me in , I promise you faithfully and truly I won't . 
, but tripped lightly down the stairs , and with her own fair hands drew back the rough fastenings of the workshop window . 
Having helped the wayward 'prentice in , she faintly articulated the words 'Simmun is safe ! and yielding to her woman's nature , immediately became insensible . 
'I knew I should quench her , said Sim , rather embarrassed by this circumstance . 
'Of course I was certain it would come to this , but there was nothing else to be done if I hadn't eyed her over , she wouldn't have come down . 
Keep up a minute , Miggs . 
What a slippery figure she is ! There's no holding her , comfortably . 
He was a staid , grave , placid gentleman , something past the prime of life , yet upright in his carriage , for all that , and slim as a greyhound . 
'A quaint place this , said the gentleman and his voice was as rich as his dress . 
'Are you the landlord ? 'At your service , sir , replied John Willet . 
, and a decent room of which there seems to be no lack in this great mansion , said the stranger , again running his eyes over the exterior . 
'You can have , sir , returned John with a readiness quite surprising , 'anything you please . 
'It's well I am easily satisfied , returned the other with a smile , 'or that might prove a hardy pledge , my friend . 
And saying so , he dismounted , with the aid of the block before the door , in a twinkling . 
'Halloa there ! Hugh ! roared John . 
'Possibly he is , returned the other . 
'I should think if he were living , he would have heard you by this time . 
'Pillory the fellow , here he is at last ! cried John , in the very height and zenith of his distress . 
'Brisk enough when he is awake , said the guest . 
'Brisk enough , sir ! replied John , looking at the place where the horse had been , as if not yet understanding quite , what had become of him . 
'He melts , I think . 
He goes like a drop of froth . 
You look at him , and there he is . 
You look at him again , and there he isn't . 
But those were old days , and now every little ray came and went as it would telling the plain , bare , searching truth . 
Although the best room of the inn , it had the melancholy aspect of grandeur in decay , and was much too vast for comfort . 
But they were gone , and with them all its gladness . 
He wanted pen , ink , and paper . 
There was an old standish on the mantelshelf containing a dusty apology for all three . 
Having set this before him , the landlord was retiring , when he motioned him to stay . 
'I want this note' said the guest , glancing on what he had written , and folding it , 'conveyed there without loss of time , and an answer brought back here . 
Have you a messenger at hand ? John was thoughtful for a minute or thereabouts , and then said Yes . 
'Let me see him , said the guest . 
'I saw him in London last night . 
'He's , for ever , here one hour , and there the next , returned old John , after the usual pause to get the question in his mind . 
'Sometimes he walks , and sometimes runs . 
He's known along the road by everybody , and sometimes comes here in a cart or chaise , and sometimes riding double . 
He comes and goes , through wind , rain , snow , and hail , and on the darkest nights . 
'He goes often to the Warren , does he not ? said the guest carelessly . 
'I seem to remember his mother telling me something to that effect yesterday . 
But I was not attending to the good woman much . 
'You're right , sir , John made answer , 'he does . 
His father , sir , was murdered in that house . 
'So I have heard , returned the guest , taking a gold toothpick from his pocket with the same sweet smile . 
'A very disagreeable circumstance for the family . 
I wouldn't have such a thing happen to anybody I was nearly interested in , on any account . 
'Twould be enough to wear one's life out . 
You were going to say , friend he added , turning to John again . 
'Only that Mrs Rudge lives on a little pension from the family , and that Barnaby's as free of the house as any cat or dog about it , answered John . 
'Shall he do your errand , sir ? 'Oh yes , replied the guest . 
Let him do it by all means . 
Please to bring him here that I may charge him to be quick . 
If he objects to come you may tell him it's Mr Chester . 
He will remember my name , I dare say . 
'Come hither , lad , said Mr Chester . 
'He knows him , sir , said John , frowning aside at Barnaby , 'as well as you or I do . 
'I haven't the pleasure of much acquaintance with the gentleman , returned his guest . 
Limit the comparison to yourself , my friend . 
'Give that , said the guest , who had by this time sealed the note , and who beckoned his messenger towards him as he spoke , 'into Mr Haredale's own hands . 
Wait for an answer , and bring it back to me here . 
If you should find that Mr Haredale is engaged just now , tell him can he remember a message , landlord ? 'When he chooses , sir , replied John . 
'He won't forget this one . 
'Speed ! said Barnaby , folding the little packet in his breast , 'Speed ! If you want to see hurry and mystery , come here . 
Here ! With that , he put his hand , very much to John Willet's horror , on the guest's fine broadcloth sleeve , and led him stealthily to the back window . 
See how they whirl and plunge . 
And now they stop again , and whisper , cautiously together little thinking , mind , how often I have lain upon the grass and watched them . 
'Clothes ! echoed Barnaby , looking close into his face , and falling quickly back . 
'Ha ha ! Why , how much better to be silly , than as wise as you ! You don't see shadowy people there , like those that live in sleep not you . 
Ha ! ha ! I'll not change with you , clever as you are , not I ! With that , he waved his hat above his head , and darted off . 
'A strange creature , upon my word ! said the guest , pulling out a handsome box , and taking a pinch of snuff . 
'He wants imagination , said Mr Willet , very slowly , and after a long silence 'that's what he wants . 
I've tried to instil it into him , many and many's the time but' John added this in confidence 'he an't made for it that's the fact . 
To record that Mr Chester smiled at John's remark would be little to the purpose , for he preserved the same conciliatory and pleasant look at all times . 
The only resource he had , was to consult the boiler , and wait impatiently for Barnaby's return . 
But Barnaby delayed beyond all precedent . 
'Barnaby's late , John ventured to observe , as he placed a pair of tarnished candlesticks , some three feet high , upon the table , and snuffed the lights they held . 
'He is rather so , replied the guest , sipping his wine . 
'He will not be much longer , I dare say . 
John coughed and raked the fire together . 
I think you said you had a bed to spare . 
'Such a bed , sir , returned John Willet 'ay , such a bed as few , even of the gentry's houses , own . 
A fixter here , sir . 
I've heard say that bedstead is nigh two hundred years of age . 
Your noble son a fine young gentleman slept in it last , sir , half a year ago . 
'Upon my life , a recommendation ! said the guest , shrugging his shoulders and wheeling his chair nearer to the fire . 
'See that it be well aired , Mr Willet , and let a blazing fire be lighted there at once . 
This house is something damp and chilly . 
'He'll have his foot in the stirrup in an hour's time , he cried , advancing . 
'He has been riding hard all day has just come home but will be in the saddle again as soon as he has eat and drank , to meet his loving friend . 
'Was that his message ? asked the visitor , looking up , but without the smallest discomposure or at least without the show of any . 
'All but the last words , Barnaby rejoined . 
I saw that , in his face . 
'This for your pains , said the other , putting money in his hand , and glancing at him steadfastly . 
This for your pains , sharp Barnaby . 
'For Grip , and me , and Hugh , to share among us , he rejoined , putting it up , and nodding , as he counted it on his fingers . 
'Grip one , me two , Hugh three the dog , the goat , the cats well , we shall spend it pretty soon , I warn you . 
John Willet , who appeared to consider himself particularly and chiefly referred to under the term wise men , looked that way likewise , and with great solidity of feature . 
'In this ? he answered , jumping up , before John Willet could reply shaking it as he spoke , and stooping his head to listen . 
'In this ! What is there here ? Tell him ! 'A devil , a devil , a devil ! cried a hoarse voice . 
'Here's money ! said Barnaby , chinking it in his hand , 'money for a treat , Grip ! 'Hurrah ! Hurrah ! Hurrah ! replied the raven , 'keep up your spirits . 
by the hands of Barnaby , then and there present . 
For a little knot of smokers and solemn gossips , who had seldom any new topics of discussion , this was a perfect Godsend . 
Here was a good , dark looking mystery progressing under that very roof brought home to the fireside , as it were , and enjoyable without the smallest pains or trouble . 
It is extraordinary what a zest and relish it gave to the drink , and how it heightened the flavour of the tobacco . 
Every man smoked his pipe with a face of grave and serious delight , and looked at his neighbour with a sort of quiet congratulation . 
There were present two , however , who showed but little interest in the general contentment . 
The light that fell upon this slumbering form , showed it in all its muscular and handsome proportions . 
'He's waiting here , I suppose , said Solomon , 'to take Mr Haredale's horse . 
'That's it , sir , replied John Willet . 
'He's not often in the house , you know . 
He's more at his ease among horses than men . 
I look upon him as a animal himself . 
'A very good expression , Johnny . 
You'll be a tackling somebody presently . 
You're in twig to night , I see . 
'Because they was never drawed out of him when he was a boy . 
'Go on improving of us , Johnny . 
And , said Mr Willet , arriving at his logical conclusion , 'is to be treated accordingly . 
'Why then , I'll tell you what , said Solomon , speaking softly and with an earnest look . 
'He and Mr Haredale are going to fight a duel in it . 
Everybody looked at Mr Willet , after this alarming suggestion . 
Mr Willet looked at the fire , weighing in his own mind the effect which such an occurrence would be likely to have on the establishment . 
'Well , said John , 'I don't know I am sure I remember that when I went up last , he HAD put the lights upon the mantel shelf . 
You know by the newspapers what a common thing it is for gentlemen to fight in coffee houses without seconds . 
One of 'em will be wounded or perhaps killed in this house . 
'That was a challenge that Barnaby took then , eh ? said John . 
Inclosing a slip of paper with the measure of his sword upon it , I'll bet a guinea , answered the little man . 
'We know what sort of gentleman Mr Haredale is . 
You have told us what Barnaby said about his looks , when he came back . 
Depend upon it , I'm right . 
The flip had had no flavour till now . 
The tobacco had been of mere English growth , compared with its present taste . 
A duel in that great old rambling room upstairs , and the best bed ordered already for the wounded man ! 'Would it be swords or pistols , now ? said John . 
Perhaps both , returned Solomon . 
'The gentlemen wear swords , and may easily have pistols in their pockets most likely have , indeed . 
If they fire at each other without effect , then they'll draw , and go to work in earnest . 
'And then , said Solomon , looking from face to face , 'then we shall have one of those stains upon the floor that never come out . 
We know him better , eh ? 'Better indeed ! they whispered all together . 
'As to its ever being got out again , said Solomon , 'I tell you it never will , or can be . 
Why , do you know that it has been tried , at a certain house we are acquainted with ? 'The Warren ! cried John . 
'No , sure ! 'Yes , sure yes . 
It's only known by very few . 
It has been whispered about though , for all that . 
They planed the board away , but there it was . 
They went deep , but it went deeper . 
They put new boards down , but there was one great spot that came through still , and showed itself in the old place . 
upon it and he believes , through thinking of it long and very much , that it will never fade until he finds the man who did the deed . 
As this recital ended , and they all drew closer round the fire , the tramp of a horse was heard without . 
'The very man ! cried John , starting up . 
'Hugh ! Hugh ! The sleeper staggered to his feet , and hurried after him . 
'You have a stranger here , Willet , who sent to me , he said , in a voice which sounded naturally stern and deep . 
'Where is he ? 'In the great room upstairs , sir , answered John . 
Your staircase is dark , I know . 
'Stop ! he said , when they reached the landing . 
He laid his hand upon the door , entered , and shut it heavily . 
If the two had no greater sympathy in their inward thoughts than in their outward bearing and appearance , the meeting did not seem likely to prove a very calm or pleasant one . 
With no great disparity between them in point of years , they were , in every other respect , as unlike and far removed from each other as two men could well be . 
The one preserved a calm and placid smile the other , a distrustful frown . 
The new comer , indeed , appeared bent on showing by his every tone and gesture his determined opposition and hostility to the man he had come to meet . 
'Haredale , said this gentleman , without the least appearance of embarrassment or reserve , 'I am very glad to see you . 
'Let us dispense with compliments . 
They are misplaced between us , returned the other , waving his hand , 'and say plainly what we have to say . 
You have asked me to meet you . 
I have lost no old likings or dislikings my memory has not failed me by a hair's breadth . 
You ask me to give you a meeting . 
I say , I am here . 
I have not come to bandy pleasant speeches , or hollow professions . 
You are a smooth man of the world , sir , and at such play have me at a disadvantage . 
The very last man on this earth with whom I would enter the lists to combat with gentle compliments and masked faces , is Mr Chester , I do assure you . 
I am not his match at such weapons , and have reason to believe that few men are . 
'You do me a great deal of honour Haredale , returned the other , most composedly , 'and I thank you . 
I will be frank with you 'I beg your pardon will be what ? 'Frank open perfectly candid . 
'Hab ! cried Mr Haredale , drawing his breath . 
'But don't let me interrupt you . 
'There again , said Mr Haredale , 'you have me at a great advantage . 
Your self command 'Is not to be disturbed , when it will serve my purpose , you would say' rejoined the other , interrupting him with the same complacency . 
And I have a purpose to serve now . 
I am sure our object is the same . 
Let us attain it like sensible men , who have ceased to be boys some time . 
Do you drink ? 'With my friends , returned the other . 
'You are wrong , Haredale , said the other , crossing his legs , and smiling as he held his glass up in the bright glow of the fire . 
'You are really very wrong . 
I wonder no philosopher has ever established that our globe itself is hollow . 
It should be , if Nature is consistent in her works . 
'YOU think it is , perhaps ? 'I should say , he returned , sipping his wine , 'there could be no doubt about it . 
Well we , in trifling with this jingling toy , have had the ill luck to jostle and fall out . 
You have a niece , and I a son a fine lad , Haredale , but foolish . 
'It may sound strangely in your ears but I love her . 
'Strangely , my good fellow ! cried Mr Chester , lazily filling his glass again , and pulling out his toothpick . 
I like Ned too or , as you say , love him that's the word among such near relations . 
I'm very fond of Ned . 
He's an amazingly good fellow , and a handsome fellow foolish and weak as yet that's all . 
Ned and I couldn't do it . 
'Curb your tongue , in God's name , if this conversation is to last , retorted Mr Haredale fiercely . 
'I have said I love my niece . 
I wish you'd take some wine ? 'Mark me , said Mr Haredale , striding to the table , and laying his hand upon it heavily . 
He lies , and does me grievous wrong , in the mere thought . 
'I am more delighted than I can possibly tell you , rejoined Mr Chester with the utmost blandness , 'to find my own impression so confirmed . 
You see the advantage of our having met . 
We have a most complete and thorough explanation , and we know what course to take . 
Why don't you taste your tenant's wine ? It's really very good . 
'The messenger I sent to you to day , foremost among them all . 
'The idiot ? Barnaby ? 'You are surprised ? I am glad of that , for I was rather so myself . 
You're stouter than you used to be , Haredale , but you look extremely well . 
'Our business , I presume , is nearly at an end , said Mr Haredale , with an expression of impatience he was at no pains to conceal . 
'Trust me , Mr Chester , my niece shall change from this time . 
'If there is anything real in this world , it is those amazingly fine feelings and those natural obligations which must subsist between father and son . 
I shall put it to him on every ground of moral and religious feeling . 
'And break her heart as speedily as possible ? said Mr Haredale , drawing on his glove . 
'There Ned will act exactly as he pleases , returned the other , sipping his wine 'that's entirely his affair . 
I wouldn't for the world interfere with my son , Haredale , beyond a certain point . 
The relationship between father and son , you know , is positively quite a holy kind of bond . 
WON'T you let me persuade you to take one glass of wine ? Well ! as you please , as you please , he added , helping himself again . 
'Your health ! said the other , with a nod . 
Fie , fie ! returned the other , relishing a pinch of snuff extremely . 
Only a little management , a little diplomacy , a little intriguing , that's the word . 
But as it has gone so far , and it is necessary for us to act , it is of no use shrinking or regretting . 
Well ! I shall second your endeavours to the utmost of my power . 
There is one topic in the whole wide range of human thoughts on which we both agree . 
We shall act in concert , but apart . 
There will be no need , I hope , for us to meet again . 
'Are you going ? said Mr Chester , rising with a graceful indolence . 
'Let me light you down the stairs . 
'Pray keep your seat , returned the other drily , 'I know the way . 
'Pah ! A very coarse animal , indeed ! said Mr Chester , composing himself in the easy chair again . 
After some consideration , it was decided that he had left the gentleman above , for dead , and had adopted this stratagem to divert suspicion or pursuit . 
Under this protection , the brave and broad faced John boldly entered the room , half a foot in advance , and received an order for a boot jack without trembling . 
He took occasion , too , to examine the gentleman as closely as he could , expecting to discover sundry loopholes in his person , pierced by his adversary's sword . 
'And now , Willet , said Mr Chester , 'if the room's well aired , I'll try the merits of that famous bed . 
Barnaby , take you that other candle , and go on before . 
Hugh ! Follow up , sir , with the easy chair . 
'Good night ! Barnaby , my good fellow , you say some prayers before you go to bed , I hope ? Barnaby nodded . 
'He has some nonsense that he calls his prayers , sir , returned old John , officiously . 
'I'm afraid there an't much good in em . 
'And Hugh ? said Mr Chester , turning to him . 
'Not I , he answered . 
'I know his' pointing to Barnaby 'they're well enough . 
He sings 'em sometimes in the straw . 
'He's quite a animal , sir , John whispered in his ear with dignity . 
'You'll excuse him , I'm sure . 
If he has any soul at all , sir , it must be such a very small one , that it don't signify what he does or doesn't in that way . 
'There's a bit of horseflesh , Hugh ! said John , when he had recovered enough self command to appear at the door again . 
'Mind you take good care of her , sir , said John , appealing from this insensible person to his son and heir , who now appeared , fully equipped and ready . 
'I should be puzzled to do that , I think , father , Joe replied , casting a disconsolate look at the animal . 
'None of your impudence , sir , if you please , retorted old John . 
Now your mind's at ease , father . 
'I don't suppose anything of the kind , returned Joe . 
'Let them keep their red noses for bottles and tankards . 
These are going to Mr Varden's house . 
'And do you suppose HE minds such things as crocuses ? demanded John . 
'I don't know , and to say the truth , I don't care , said Joe . 
'Come , father , give me the money , and in the name of patience let me go . 
'There it is , sir , replied John 'and take care of it and mind you don't make too much haste back , but give the mare a long rest . 
Do you mind ? 'Ay , I mind , returned Joe . 
'She'll need it , Heaven knows . 
'And don't you score up too much at the Black Lion , said John . 
You can't expect me to be quiet under it . 
'Let him have money ! cried John , in a drowsy reverie . 
'What does he call money guineas ? Hasn't he got money ? Over and above the tolls , hasn't he one and sixpence ? 'One and sixpence ! repeated his son contemptuously . 
'Yes , sir , returned John , 'one and sixpence . 
When I was your age , I had never seen so much money , in a heap . 
A shilling of it is in case of accidents the mare casting a shoe , or the like of that . 
The other sixpence is to spend in the diversions of London and the diversion I recommend is going to the top of the Monument , and sitting there . 
There's no temptation there , sir no drink no young women no bad characters of any sort nothing but imagination . 
That's the way I enjoyed myself when I was your age , sir . 
Coming to a dead stop in a little copse thereabout , she suffered her rider to dismount with right goodwill , and to tie her to the trunk of a tree . 
'Stay there , old girl , said Joe , 'and let us see whether there's any little commission for me to day . 
The pathway , after a very few minutes' walking , brought him close to the house , towards which , and especially towards one particular window , he directed many covert glances . 
It was a dreary , silent building , with echoing courtyards , desolated turret chambers , and whole suites of rooms shut up and mouldering to ruin . 
The terrace garden , dark with the shade of overhanging trees , had an air of melancholy that was quite oppressive . 
The fantastic monsters on the walls , green with age and damp , and covered here and there with moss , looked grim and desolate . 
It would have been difficult to imagine a bright fire blazing in the dull and darkened rooms , or to picture any gaiety of heart or revelry that the frowning walls shut in . 
'Joe Willet , or his ghost ? said Varden , rising from the desk at which he was busy with his books , and looking at him under his spectacles . 
'Which is it ? Joe in the flesh , eh ? That's hearty . 
And how are all the Chigwell company , Joe ? 'Much as usual , sir they and I agree as well as ever . 
'Well , well ! said the locksmith . 
'We must be patient , Joe , and bear with old folks' foibles . 
Give 'em to her mother , Joe . 
A great deal better give 'em to her mother . 
'I shall be very glad , I'm sure . 
'That's right , said the locksmith , patting him on the back . 
'It don't matter who has 'em , Joe ? 'Not a bit , sir . 
Dear heart , how the words stuck in his throat ! 'Come in , said Gabriel . 
'I have just been called to tea . 
'I'm afraid I couldn't bear the room another minute , said the good lady , 'if they remained here . 
WOULD you excuse my putting them out of window ? Joe begged she wouldn't mention it on any account , and smiled feebly as he saw them deposited on the sill outside . 
And indeed she did appear to have plucked up her spirits . 
Joe expressed his gratitude to Providence for this favourable dispensation , and tried to look as if he didn't wonder where Dolly was . 
'You're sad people at Chigwell , Mr Joseph , said Mrs V. 'I hope not , ma'am , returned Joe . 
'You're the cruellest and most inconsiderate people in the world , said Mrs Varden , bridling . 
'I wonder old Mr Willet , having been a married man himself , doesn't know better than to conduct himself as he does . 
His doing it for profit is no excuse . 
I would rather pay the money twenty times over , and have Varden come home like a respectable and sober tradesman . 
If there is one character , said Mrs Varden with great emphasis , 'that offends and disgusts me more than another , it is a sot . 
'Come , Martha , my dear , said the locksmith cheerily , 'let us have tea , and don't let us talk about sots . 
There are none here , and Joe don't want to hear about them , I dare say . 
At this crisis , Miggs appeared with toast . 
'I dare say he does not , said Mrs Varden 'and I dare say you do not , Varden . 
It's a very unpleasant subiect , I have no doubt , though I won't say it's personal' Miggs coughed 'whatever I may be forced to think' Miggs sneezed expressively . 
If you don't believe me , as I know you don't , here's Miggs , who is only too often a witness of it ask her . 
'Oh ! she were very bad the other night , sir , indeed she were , said Miggs . 
'If you hadn't the sweetness of an angel in you , mim , I don't think you could abear it , I raly don't . 
'Miggs , said Mrs Varden , 'you're profane . 
'Answering me , Miggs , and providing yourself , retorted her mistress , looking round with dignity , 'is one and the same thing . 
I hope I know my own unworthiness , and that I hate and despise myself and all my fellow creatures as every practicable Christian should . 
But he had no opportunity to say anything in his own defence , for at that moment Dolly herself appeared , and struck him quite dumb with her beauty . 
It is impossible to tell how Joe hated that party wherever it was , and all the other people who were going to it , whoever they were . 
And she hardly looked at him no , hardly looked at him . 
And when the chair was seen through the open door coming blundering into the workshop , she actually clapped her hands and seemed glad to go . 
But Joe gave her his arm there was some comfort in that and handed her into it . 
There never was such an alteration in a small room in a small time as in that parlour when they went back to finish tea . 
So dark , so deserted , so perfectly disenchanted . 
Miggs was hovering about too and the fact of her existence , the mere circumstance of her ever having been born , appeared , after Dolly , such an unaccountable practical joke . 
It was impossible to talk . 
He had nothing left for it but to stir his tea round , and round , and round , and ruminate on all the fascinations of the locksmith's lovely daughter . 
It was a part of the certain uncertainty of Mrs Varden's temper , that when they were in this condition , she should be gay and sprightly . 
'I need have a cheerful disposition , I am sure , said the smiling housewife , 'to preserve any spirits at all and how I do it I can scarcely tell . 
'Ah , mim , sighed Miggs , 'begging your pardon for the interruption , there an't a many like you . 
'Take away , Miggs , said Mrs Varden , rising , 'take away , pray . 
I know I'm a restraint here , and as I wish everybody to enjoy themselves as they best can , I feel I had better go . 
'No , no , Martha , cried the locksmith . 
I'm sure we shall be very sorry to lose you , eh Joe ! Joe started , and said 'Certainly . 
'Thank you , Varden , my dear , returned his wife 'but I know your wishes better . 
Good night , Mr Joseph . 
I'm very glad to have seen you , and I only wish I could have provided something more suitable to your taste . 
Remember me very kindly if you please to old Mr Willet , and tell him that whenever he comes here I have a crow to pluck with him . 
Good night ! Having uttered these words with great sweetness of manner , the good lady dropped a curtsey remarkable for its condescension , and serenely withdrew . 
As this rider passed , he checked his steed , and called him of the Maypole by his name . 
Joe set spurs to the grey mare , and was at his side directly . 
'I thought it was you , sir , he said , touching his hat . 
'A fair evening , sir . 
Glad to see you out of doors again . 
The gentleman smiled and nodded . 
'What gay doings have been going on to day , Joe ? Is she as pretty as ever ? Nay , don't blush , man . 
She's as far out of my reach as as Heaven is . 
'Well , Joe , I hope that's not altogether beyond it , said Edward , good humouredly . 
'Eh ? 'Ah ! sighed Joe . 
'It's all very fine talking , sir . 
Proverbs are easily made in cold blood . 
But it can't be helped . 
Are you bound for our house , sir ? 'Yes . 
As I am not quite strong yet , I shall stay there to night , and ride home coolly in the morning . 
It'll save you having to walk from the Maypole , there and back again . 
I can spare the time well , sir , for I am too soon . 
'And so am I , returned Edward , 'though I was unconsciously riding fast just now , in compliment I suppose to the pace of my thoughts , which were travelling post . 
We will keep together , Joe , willingly , and be as good company as may be . 
And cheer up , cheer up , think of the locksmith's daughter with a stout heart , and you shall win her yet . 
By little and little they ceased talking , and rode on side by side in a pleasant silence . 
'The Maypole lights are brilliant to night , said Edward , as they rode along the lane from which , while the intervening trees were bare of leaves , that hostelry was visible . 
'Brilliant indeed , sir , returned Joe , rising in his stirrups to get a better view . 
'He must be a horseman of good quality to have such accommodations . 
Your bed too , sir ! 'No matter , Joe . 
Any other room will do for me . 
But come there's nine striking . 
They cantered forward at as brisk a pace as Joe's charger could attain , and presently stopped in the little copse where he had left her in the morning . 
Edward dismounted , gave his bridle to his companion , and walked with a light step towards the house . 
A female servant was waiting at a side gate in the garden wall , and admitted him without delay . 
Almost at the same instant a heavy hand was laid upon her arm , Edward felt himself thrust away , and Mr Haredale stood between them . 
The young man drew himself up , and returned his gaze . 
'This is well done of you , sir , to corrupt my servants , and enter my house unbidden and in secret , like a thief ! said Mr Haredale . 
'Leave it , sir , and return no more . 
'Miss Haredale's presence , returned the young man , 'and your relationship to her , give you a licence which , if you are a brave man , you will not abuse . 
You have compelled me to this course , and the fault is yours not mine . 
More than this I will not say to you , save that I forbid you this house , and require you to be gone . 
'It is neither generous , nor honourable , nor the act of a true man to play the spy , said Edward . 
'Your words imply dishonour , and I reject them with the scorn they merit . 
'You will find , said Mr Haredale , calmly , 'your trusty go between in waiting at the gate by which you entered . 
I have played no spy's part , sir . 
I chanced to see you pass the gate , and followed . 
You might have heard me knocking for admission , had you been less swift of foot , or lingered in the garden . 
Your presence here is offensive to me and distressful to my niece . 
Your niece has plighted her faith to me , and I have plighted mine to her . 
You have tied a lover' knot here which must be cut asunder . 
Take good heed of what I say . 
I cancel the bond between ye . 
I reject you , and all of your kith and kin all the false , hollow , heartless stock . 
'High words , sir , said Edward , scornfully . 
'Words of purpose and meaning , as you will find , replied the other . 
'Lay you then , these , said Edward . 
You shall not cancel the bond between us . 
I will not abandon this pursuit . 
I rely upon your niece's truth and honour , and set your influence at nought . 
I leave her with a confidence in her pure faith , which you will never weaken , and with no concern but that I do not leave her in some gentler care . 
With that , he pressed her cold hand to his lips , and once more encountering and returning Mr Haredale's steady look , withdrew . 
A few words to Joe as he mounted his horse sufficiently explained what had passed , and renewed all that young gentleman's despondency with tenfold aggravation . 
They rode back to the Maypole without exchanging a syllable , and arrived at the door with heavy hearts . 
A thorough gentleman the smilingest , affablest gentleman I ever had to do with . 
'Who , Willet ? said Edward carelessly , as he dismounted . 
'Your worthy father , sir , replied John . 
'Your honourable , venerable father . 
'What does he mean ? said Edward , looking with a mixture of alarm and doubt , at Joe . 
'What DO you mean ? said Joe . 
'Don't you see Mr Edward doesn't understand , father ? 'Why , didn't you know of it , sir ? said John , opening his eyes wide . 
'My father , Willet ! 'Yes , sir , he told me so a handsome , slim , upright gentleman , in green and gold . 
In your old room up yonder , sir . 
No doubt you can go in , sir , said John , walking backwards into the road and looking up at the window . 
'He hasn't put out his candles yet , I see . 
There are , still , worse places than the Temple , on a sultry day , for basking in the sun , or resting idly in the shade . 
There is yet , in the Temple , something of a clerkly monkish atmosphere , which public offices of law have not disturbed , and even legal firms have failed to scare away . 
A most eccentric dog ! As he spoke , the figure rose , and came towards him with a rapid pace . 
'Really , as if he had heard me , said the father , resuming his newspaper with a yawn . 
'Dear Ned ! Presently the room door opened , and the young man entered to whom his father gently waved his hand , and smiled . 
'Are you at leisure for a little conversation , sir ? said Edward . 
I am always at leisure . 
Have you breakfasted ? 'Three hours ago . 
'What a very early dog ! cried his father , contemplating him from behind the toothpick , with a languid smile . 
'The truth is , said Edward , bringing a chair forward , and seating himself near the table , 'that I slept but ill last night , and was glad to rise . 
The cause of my uneasiness cannot but be known to you , sir and it is upon that I wish to speak . 
'My dear boy , returned his father , 'confide in me , I beg . 
But you know my constitution don't be prosy , Ned . 
'I will be plain , and brief , said Edward . 
'Don't say you will , my good fellow , returned his father , crossing his legs , 'or you certainly will not . 
'You don't say so ! cried his father . 
'I am delighted to hear it . 
It saves us the worry , and terrible wear and tear of a long explanation , and is a great relief for both . 
At the very house ! Why didn't you come up ? I should have been charmed to see you . 
'I knew that what I had to say would be better said after a night's reflection , when both of us were cool , returned the son . 
''Fore Gad , Ned , rejoined the father , 'I was cool enough last night . 
That detestable Maypole ! By some infernal contrivance of the builder , it holds the wind , and keeps it fresh . 
But you were saying' 'I was about to say , Heaven knows how seriously and earnestly , that you have made me wretched , sir . 
Will you hear me gravely for a moment ? 'My dear Ned , said his father , 'I will hear you with the patience of an anchorite . 
Oblige me with the milk . 
'For his manner of doing so , I give you my honour , Ned , I am not accountable , said his father . 
He is a mere boor , a log , a brute , with no address in life . 
Positively a fly in the jug . 
The first I have seen this year . 
Edward rose , and paced the room . 
His imperturbable parent sipped his tea . 
'Father , said the young man , stopping at length before him , 'we must not trifle in this matter . 
We must not deceive each other , or ourselves . 
Let me pursue the manly open part I wish to take , and do not repel me by this unkind indifference . 
'Whether I am indifferent or no , returned the other , 'I leave you , my dear boy , to judge . 
'I wish you to consider , sir , said Edward , 'in what a cruel situation I am placed . 
Loving Miss Haredale as I do' 'My dear fellow , interrupted his father with a compassionate smile , 'you do nothing of the kind . 
You don't know anything about it . 
There's no such thing , I assure you . 
Now , do take my word for it . 
You have good sense , Ned , great good sense . 
I wonder you should be guilty of such amazing absurdities . 
'I repeat , said his son firmly , 'that I love her . 
You have interposed to part us , and have , to the extent I have just now told you of , succeeded . 
The idea of wealth has been familiarised to me from my cradle . 
I have been taught to look upon those means , by which men raise themselves to riches and distinction , as being beyond my heeding , and beneath my care . 
I have been , as the phrase is , liberally educated , and am fit for nothing . 
I find myself at last wholly dependent upon you , with no resource but in your favour . 
In this momentous question of my life we do not , and it would seem we never can , agree . 
If there never has been thus much plain speaking between us before , sir , the fault has not been mine , indeed . 
'My good fellow , said his smiling father , 'you quite affect me . 
Go on , my dear Edward , I beg . 
There is great earnestness , vast candour , a manifest sincerity in all you say , but I fear I observe the faintest indications of a tendency to prose . 
'I am very sorry , sir . 
'I am very sorry , too , Ned , but you know that I cannot fix my mind for any long period upon one subject . 
If you'll come to the point at once , I'll imagine all that ought to go before , and conclude it said . 
Oblige me with the milk again . 
Listening , invariably makes me feverish . 
'What I would say then , tends to this , said Edward . 
'I cannot bear this absolute dependence , sir , even upon you . 
Time has been lost and opportunity thrown away , but I am yet a young man , and may retrieve it . 
Will you do this , sir ? At the expiration of the term we agree upon , let us discuss this subject again . 
Till then , unless it is revived by you , let it never be renewed between us . 
'Her father was at least an eminent lawyer , sir , said Edward . 
'Quite right , Ned perfectly so . 
He had his heart's desire , Ned . 
I was a younger son's younger son , and I married her . 
We each had our object , and gained it . 
She stepped at once into the politest and best circles , and I stepped into a fortune which I assure you was very necessary to my comfort quite indispensable . 
Now , my good fellow , that fortune is among the things that have been . 
It is gone , Ned , and has been gone how old are you ? I always forget . 
'Seven and twenty , sir . 
'Are you indeed ? cried his father , raising his eyelids in a languishing surprise . 
'So much ! Then I should say , Ned , that as nearly as I remember , its skirts vanished from human knowledge , about eighteen or nineteen years ago . 
, and commenced to live upon an inconsiderable annuity and my past reputation . 
'You are jesting with me , sir , said Edward . 
'Not in the slightest degree , I assure you , returned his father with great composure . 
'These family topics are so extremely dry , that I am sorry to say they don't admit of any such relief . 
It is for that reason , and because they have an appearance of business , that I dislike them so very much . 
Well ! You know the rest . 
He is a restraint upon his father , his father is a restraint upon him , and they make each other mutually uncomfortable . 
Occasionally we passed a week or two together here , and disconcerted each other as only such near relations can . 
At last you came home . 
I candidly tell you , my dear boy , that if you had been awkward and overgrown , I should have exported you to some distant part of the world . 
'I wish with all my soul you had , sir , said Edward . 
'No you don't , Ned , said his father coolly 'you are mistaken , I assure you . 
I found you a handsome , prepossessing , elegant fellow , and I threw you into the society I can still command . 
Having done that , my dear fellow , I consider that I have provided for you in life , and rely upon your doing something to provide for me in return . 
'I do not understand your meaning , sir . 
'A mere fortune hunter ! cried the son , indignantly . 
'What in the devil's name , Ned , would you be ! returned the father . 
The stock exchange , the pulpit , the counting house , the royal drawing room , the senate , what but fortune hunters are they filled with ? A fortune hunter ! Yes . 
You ARE one and you would be nothing else , my dear Ned , if you were the greatest courtier , lawyer , legislator , prelate , or merchant , in existence . 
If you are squeamish and moral , Ned , console yourself with the reflection that at the very worst your fortune hunting can make but one person miserable or unhappy . 
It establishes a confidence between us which is quite delightful , and was certainly necessary , though how you can ever have mistaken our positions and designs , I confess I cannot understand . 
I conceived , until I found your fancy for this girl , that all these points were tacitly agreed upon between us . 
As to the life I lead , I must lead it , Ned . 
I must have these little refinements about me . 
I have always been used to them , and I cannot exist without them . 
They must surround me , you observe , and therefore they are here . 
With regard to our circumstances , Ned , you may set your mind at rest upon that score . 
Your own appearance is by no means despicable , and our joint pocket money alone devours our income . 
, I wish you'd look upon it pleasantly . 
Let us be moral , Ned , or we are nothing . 
Even if one could set that objection aside , which is impossible , we come to another which is quite conclusive . 
It seems to me such an indelicate sort of thing that I really think the girl ought to have been put to death by the state to prevent its happening . 
But I tease you perhaps . 
You would rather be alone ? My dear Ned , most willingly . 
I shall be going out presently , but we shall meet to night , or if not to night , certainly to morrow . 
Take care of yourself in the mean time , for both our sakes . 
You are a person of great consequence to me , Ned of vast consequence indeed . 
The son , who had appeared so lost in thought as not to hear or understand them , remained quite still and silent . 
After the lapse of half an hour or so , the elder Chester , gaily dressed , went out . 
The younger still sat with his head resting on his hands , in what appeared to be a kind of stupor . 
They were , one and all , from the broadest and best to the narrowest and least frequented , very dark . 
There were many other characteristics not quite so disagreeable about the thoroughfares of London then , with which they had been long familiar . 
, was generally the cause of these disputes for cards and dice were as openly used , and worked as much mischief , and yielded as much excitement below stairs , as above . 
Who he was , or whence he came , was a question often asked , but which none could answer . 
He was not only a spectre at their licentious feasts a something in the midst of their revelry and riot that chilled and haunted them but out of doors he was the same . 
over his shoulder from time to time , and as he did so quickening his pace . 
In the fields , the lanes , the roads , in all quarters of the town east , west , north , and south that man was seen gliding on like a shadow . 
He was always hurrying away . 
Those who encountered him , saw him steal past , caught sight of the backward glance , and so lost him in the darkness . 
This constant restlessness , and flitting to and fro , gave rise to strange stories . 
And as they told these stories to each other , one who had looked about him would pull his neighbour by the sleeve , and there he would be among them . 
At last , one man he was one of those whose commerce lay among the graves resolved to question this strange companion . 
, this fellow sat down at his elbow . 
'A black night , master ! 'It is a black night . 
'Blacker than last , though that was pitchy too . 
Didn't I pass you near the turnpike in the Oxford Road ? 'It's like you may . 
'Come , come , master , cried the fellow , urged on by the looks of his comrades , and slapping him on the shoulder 'be more companionable and communicative . 
Be more the gentleman in this good company . 
There are tales among us that you have sold yourself to the devil , and I know not what . 
'We all have , have we not ? returned the stranger , looking up . 
'If we were fewer in number , perhaps he would give better wages . 
'It goes rather hard with you , indeed , said the fellow , as the stranger disclosed his haggard unwashed face , and torn clothes . 
'What of that ? Be merry , master . 
'Do you threaten ? said the fellow . 
'Yes , returned the other , rising and turning upon him , and looking fiercely round as if in apprehension of a general attack . 
His voice , and look , and bearing all expressive of the wildest recklessness and desperation daunted while they repelled the bystanders . 
Although in a very different sphere of action now , they were not without much of the effect they had wrought at the Maypole Inn . 
'I am what you all are , and live as you all do , said the man sternly , after a short silence . 
'I am in hiding here like the rest , and if we were surprised would perhaps do my part with the best of ye . 
If it's my humour to be left to myself , let me have it . 
Otherwise , and here he swore a tremendous oath 'there'll be mischief done in this place , though there ARE odds of a score against me . 
After a short time the strange man lay down upon a bench to sleep , and when they thought of him again , they found he was gone . 
This night he crossed London Bridge and passed into Southwark . 
As he glided down a bye street , a woman with a little basket on her arm , turned into it at the other end . 
Directly he observed her , he sought the shelter of an archway , and stood aside until she had passed . 
Then he emerged cautiously from his hiding place , and followed . 
She went into several shops to purchase various kinds of household necessaries , and round every place at which she stopped he hovered like her evil spirit following her when she reappeared . 
It was nigh eleven o'clock , and the passengers in the streets were thinning fast , when she turned , doubtless to go home . 
The phantom still followed her . 
She turned into the same bye street in which he had seen her first , which , being free from shops , and narrow , was extremely dark . 
She quickened her pace here , as though distrustful of being stopped , and robbed of such trifling property as she carried with her . 
He crept along on the other side of the road . 
Had she been gifted with the speed of wind , it seemed as if his terrible shadow would have tracked her down . 
At length the widow for she it was reached her own door , and , panting for breath , paused to take the key from her basket . 
His hand was on her mouth , but that was needless , for her tongue clove to its roof , and her power of utterance was gone . 
'I have been looking for you many nights . 
Is the house empty ? Answer me . 
Is any one inside ? She could only answer by a rattle in her throat . 
She seemed to indicate that there was no one there . 
He took the key , unlocked the door , carried her in , and secured it carefully behind them . 
Chapter It was a chilly night , and the fire in the widow's parlour had burnt low . 
Her strange companion placed her in a chair , and stooping down before the half extinguished ashes , raked them together and fanned them with his hat . 
It had rained hard during the previous night and for some hours in the morning , but since noon it had been fine . 
Wheresoever he had passed the hours of darkness , his condition sufficiently betokened that many of them had been spent beneath the open sky . 
She had covered her face with her hands , fearing , as it seemed , to look towards him . 
So they remained for some short time in silence . 
Glancing round again , he asked at length 'Is this your house ? 'It is . 
Why , in the name of Heaven , do you darken it ? 'Give me meat and drink , he answered sullenly , 'or I dare do more than that . 
The very marrow in my bones is cold , with wet and hunger . 
I must have warmth and food , and I will have them here . 
'You were the robber on the Chigwell road . 
'And nearly a murderer then . 
'The will was not wanting . 
There was one came upon me and raised the hue and cry' , that it would have gone hard with , but for his nimbleness . 
I made a thrust at him . 
'You thrust your sword at HIM ! cried the widow , looking upwards . 
Then , starting to his feet as she had done , he advanced towards her . 
'Beware ! she cried in a suppressed voice , whose firmness stopped him midway . 
'Do not so much as touch me with a finger , or you are lost body and soul , you are lost . 
'Hear me , he replied , menacing her with his hand . 
Give the alarm , cry out , refuse to shelter me . 
I will not hurt you . 
But I will not be taken alive and so surely as you threaten me above your breath , I fall a dead man on this floor . 
'Remove this man from me , good Heaven ! cried the widow . 
'In thy grace and mercy , give him one minute's penitence , and strike him dead ! 'It has no such purpose , he said , confronting her . 
Give me to eat and drink , lest I do that it cannot help my doing , and will not do for you . 
She rose at length , and going to a closet or pantry in the room , brought out some fragments of cold meat and bread and put them on the table . 
He asked for brandy , and for water . 
These she produced likewise and he ate and drank with the voracity of a famished hound . 
All the time he was so engaged she kept at the uttermost distance of the chamber , and sat there shuddering , but with her face towards him . 
'I am an outcast , to whom a roof above his head is often an uncommon luxury , and the food a beggar would reject is delicate fare . 
You live here at your ease . 
Do you live alone ? 'I do not , she made answer with an effort . 
'Who dwells here besides ? 'One it is no matter who . 
You had best begone , or he may find you here . 
Why do you linger ? 'For warmth , he replied , spreading out his hands before the fire . 
You are rich , perhaps ? 'Very , she said faintly . 
No doubt I am very rich . 
'At least you are not penniless . 
You were making purchases to night . 
'I have a little left . 
It is but a few shillings . 
You had it in your hand at the door . 
She stepped to the table and laid it down . 
He reached across , took it up , and told the contents into his hand . 
As he was counting them , she listened for a moment , and sprung towards him . 
'Take what there is , take all , take more if more were there , but go before it is too late . 
I have heard a wayward step without , I know full well . 
'What do you mean ? 'Do not stop to ask . 
Much as I dread to touch you , I would drag you to the door if I possessed the strength , rather than you should lose an instant . 
Miserable wretch ! fly from this place . 
'If there are spies without , I am safer here , replied the man , standing aghast . 
'I will remain here , and will not fly till the danger is past . 
'It is too late ! cried the widow , who had listened for the step , and not to him . 
'Hark to that foot upon the ground . 
Do you tremble to hear it ! It is my son , my idiot son ! As she said this wildly , there came a heavy knocking at the door . 
He looked at her , and she at him . 
'Let him come in , said the man , hoarsely . 
'I fear him less than the dark , houseless night . 
Let him come in ! 'The dread of this hour , returned the widow , 'has been upon me all my life , and I will not . 
Evil will fall upon him , if you stand eye to eye . 
That voice and cry ! It was he who grappled with me in the road . 
Was it he ? She had sunk upon her knees , and so knelt down , moving her lips , but uttering no sound . 
As he gazed upon her , uncertain what to do or where to turn , the shutters flew open . 
'Why , who can keep out Grip and me ! he cried , thrusting in his head , and staring round the room . 
'Are you there , mother ? How long you keep us from the fire and light . 
She stammered some excuse and tendered him her hand . 
But Barnaby sprung lightly in without assistance , and putting his arms about her neck , kissed her a hundred times . 
'We have been afield , mother leaping ditches , scrambling through hedges , running down steep banks , up and away , and hurrying on . 
'He takes such care of me besides ! said Barnaby . 
He won't surprise me till he's perfect . 
The raven crowed again in a rapturous manner which plainly said , 'Those are certainly some of my characteristics , and I glory in them . 
In the meantime , Barnaby closed the window and secured it , and coming to the fireplace , prepared to sit down with his face to the closet . 
But his mother prevented this , by hastily taking that side herself , and motioning him towards the other . 
'How pale you are to night ! said Barnaby , leaning on his stick . 
Grip alive to everything his master was unconscious of had his head out of the basket , and in return was watching him intently with his glistening eye . 
'You mustn't tell , said Barnaby , holding up his finger , 'for it's a secret , mind , and only known to me , and Grip , and Hugh . 
We had the dog with us , but he's not like Grip , clever as he is , and doesn't guess it yet , I'll wager . 
Why do you look behind me so ? 'Did I ? she answered faintly . 
'I didn't know I did . 
'You are frightened ! said Barnaby , changing colour . 
'I am afraid there is , somewhere . 
You make my hair stand on end , and my flesh creep . 
Why do you look like that ? Is it in the room as I have seen it in my dreams , dashing the ceiling and the walls with red ? Tell me . 
After a time , he raised his head and looked about him . 
'Is it gone ? 'There has been nothing here , rejoined his mother , soothing him . 
'Nothing indeed , dear Barnaby . 
Look ! You see there are but you and me . 
He gazed at her vacantly , and , becoming reassured by degrees , burst into a wild laugh . 
'But let us see , he said , thoughtfully . 
'Were we talking ? Was it you and me ? Where have we been ? 'Nowhere but here . 
'Aye , but Hugh , and I , said Barnaby , 'that's it . 
'What man ? 'The robber him that the stars winked at . 
We have waited for him after dark these many nights , and we shall have him . 
I'd know him in a thousand . 
Mother , see here ! This is the man . 
'Ha ha ha ! We shall have him , he cried , ridding himself of the semblance as hastily as he had assumed it . 
'You shall see him , mother , bound hand and foot , and brought to London at a saddle girth and you shall hear of him at Tyburn Tree if we have luck . 
You're pale again , and trembling . 
And why DO you look behind me so ? 'It is nothing , she answered . 
'I am not quite well . 
Go you to bed , dear , and leave me here . 
'To bed ! he answered . 
I am hungry too , and Grip has eaten nothing since broad noon . 
Of these he received about a score in rapid succession , without the smallest discomposure . 
'That's all , said Barnaby . 
, and then , and not till then , began to drag it out , piece by piece , and eat it with the utmost relish . 
Barnaby , for his part , having pressed his mother to eat in vain , made a hearty supper too . 
Once during the progress of his meal , he wanted more bread from the closet and rose to get it . 
She hurriedly interposed to prevent him , and summoning her utmost fortitude , passed into the recess , and brought it out herself . 
'Mother , said Barnaby , looking at her steadfastly as she sat down beside him after doing so 'is to day my birthday ? 'To day ! she answered . 
'But I think to day must be my birthday too , for all that . 
She asked him why ? 'I'll tell you why , he said . 
'I have always seen you I didn't let you know it , but I have on the evening of that day grow very sad . 
You were on your knees . 
I forget what it was you said . 
Grip , what was it we heard her say that night ? 'I'm a devil ! rejoined the raven promptly . 
'No , no , said Barnaby . 
just as you do now . 
I have found that out , you see , though I am silly . 
The widow tried to make light of Barnaby's remark , and endeavoured to divert his attention to some new subject too easy a task at all times , as she knew . 
to recall a new accomplishment he had been studying all day . 
After a long interval , Barnaby's breathing grew more deep and regular , and his eyes were closed . 
But even then the unquiet spirit of the raven interposed . 
'Polly put the ket cried Grip , and his master was broad awake again . 
Now and then he muttered in a sepulchral voice , 'Polly put the ket but very drowsily , and more like a drunken man than a reflecting raven . 
The widow , scarcely venturing to breathe , rose from her seat . 
The man glided from the closet , and extinguished the candle . 
tle on , cried Grip , suddenly struck with an idea and very much excited . 
Hurrah ! Polly put the ket tle on , we'll all have tea Polly put the ket tle on , we'll all have tea . 
They stood rooted to the ground , as though it had been a voice from the grave . 
But even this failed to awaken the sleeper . 
He turned over towards the fire , his arm fell to the ground , and his head drooped heavily upon it . 
The widow and her unwelcome visitor gazed at him and at each other for a moment , and then she motioned him towards the door . 
'You teach your son well . 
'I have taught him nothing that you heard to night . 
Depart instantly , or I will rouse him . 
'You are free to do so . 
Shall I rouse him ? 'You dare not do that . 
'I dare do anything , I have told you . 
He knows me well , it seems . 
At least I will know him . 
'Would you kill him in his sleep ? cried the widow , throwing herself between them . 
'Woman , he returned between his teeth , as he motioned her aside , 'I would see him nearer , and I will . 
If you want one of us to kill the other , wake him . 
With that he advanced , and bending down over the prostrate form , softly turned back the head and looked into the face . 
The light of the fire was upon it , and its every lineament was revealed distinctly . 
He contemplated it for a brief space , and hastily uprose . 
'Observe , he whispered in the widow's ear 'In him , of whose existence I was ignorant until to night , I have you in my power . 
Be careful how you use me . 
Be careful how you use me . 
I am destitute and starving , and a wanderer upon the earth . 
I may take a sure and slow revenge . 
'There is some dreadful meaning in your words . 
I do not fathom it . 
'There is a meaning in them , and I see you fathom it to its very depth . 
You have anticipated it for years you have told me as much . 
I leave you to digest it . 
Do not forget my warning . 
He pointed , as he left her , to the slumbering form , and stealthily withdrawing , made his way into the street . 
She fell on her knees beside the sleeper , and remained like one stricken into stone , until the tears which fear had frozen so long , came tenderly to her relief . 
It was the dead time of the night , and all was quiet . 
But obdurate night had yet possession of the sky , and his disturbed and restless walk found no relief . 
At last the guests departed , one and all and then the house was close shut up , and became as dull and silent as the rest . 
His wanderings brought him at one time to the city jail . 
He paced it round and round , came back to the same spot , and sat down again . 
But looking round , he saw that the day began to break , and failing in his purpose , turned and fled . 
He was soon in the quarter he had lately traversed , and pacing to and fro again as he had done before . 
He retreated into a doorway to see who these talkers were , and to listen to them . 
The light came to the level of the pavement as he did this , and a man ascended , bearing in his hand a torch . 
'Good night , noble captain , said he with the torch . 
'Commend me , captain , to the stricken Miggs , returned the torch bearer in a lower voice . 
'My captain flies at higher game than Miggses . 
Ha , ha , ha ! My captain is an eagle , both as respects his eye and soaring wings . 
My captain breaketh hearts as other bachelors break eggs at breakfast . 
'His precious limbs ! cried Stagg , clasping one of his ankles . 
'Shall a Miggs aspire to these proportions ! No , no , my captain . 
We will inveigle ladies fair , and wed them in our secret cavern . 
We will unite ourselves with blooming beauties , captain . 
Speak when you're spoke to on particular subjects , and not otherways . 
Hold the torch up till I've got to the end of the court , and then kennel yourself , do you hear ? 'I hear you , noble captain . 
'Obey then , said Mr Tappertit haughtily . 
he folded his arms , and walked with surpassing dignity down the court . 
His obsequious follower stood holding the torch above his head , and then the observer saw for the first time , from his place of concealment , that he was blind . 
'A stranger ! rejoined the blind man . 
'Strangers are not my friends . 
What do you do there ? 'I saw your company come out , and waited here till they were gone . 
'A lodging at this time ! returned Stagg , pointing towards the dawn as though he saw it . 
'Do you know the day is breaking ? 'I know it , rejoined the other , 'to my cost . 
I have been traversing this iron hearted town all night . 
'You had better traverse it again , said the blind man , preparing to descend , 'till you find some lodgings suitable to your taste . 
'Stay ! cried the other , holding him by the arm . 
, and rouse the neighbourhood besides , if you detain me , said the blind man . 
Do you hear ? 'Do YOU hear ! returned the other , chinking a few shillings together , and hurriedly pressing them into his hand . 
'I beg nothing of you . 
I will pay for the shelter you give me . 
Death ! Is it much to ask of such as you ! I have come from the country , and desire to rest where there are none to question me . 
I am faint , exhausted , worn out , almost dead . 
Let me lie down , like a dog , before your fire . 
I ask no more than that . 
If you would be rid of me , I will depart to morrow . 
I am just now past the want of food , God knows , and wish but to purchase shelter . 
What companion have you below ? 'None . 
'Then fasten your grate there , and show me the way . 
Quick ! The blind man complied after a moment's hesitation , and they descended together . 
The dialogue had passed as hurriedly as the words could be spoken , and they stood in his wretched room before he had had time to recover from his first surprise . 
'May I see where that door leads to , and what is beyond ? said the man , glancing keenly round . 
'You will not mind that ? 'I will show you myself . 
Follow me , or go before . 
He bade him lead the way , and , by the light of the torch which his conductor held up for the purpose , inspected all three cellars narrowly . 
His host pursued his usual occupation without seeming to heed him any further . 
His sleep was checkered with starts and moans , and sometimes with a muttered word or two . 
His hands were clenched , his brow bent , and his mouth firmly set . 
'I'm sure you'll excuse me , sir , said Mrs Varden , rising and curtseying . 
'Varden is so very thoughtless , and needs so much reminding Sim , bring a chair here . 
Mr Tappertit obeyed , with a flourish implying that he did so , under protest . 
'And you can go , Sim , said the locksmith . 
'You encourage me to say that I have come here now , to beg your good offices . 
Mrs Varden was delighted beyond measure . 
It's his way at home . 
Out of doors , he can be cheerful and talkative enough . 
Wherefore this sudden attack quite took him by surprise . 
'My dear Martha he said . 
'Oh yes , I dare say , interrupted Mrs Varden , with a smile of mingled scorn and pleasantry . 
'Very dear ! We all know that . 
'No , but my good soul , said Gabriel , 'you are quite mistaken . 
I was delighted to find you so kind and ready . 
I waited , my dear , anxiously , I assure you , to hear what you would say . 
'You waited anxiously , repeated Mrs V. 'Yes ! Thank you , Varden . 
You waited , as you always do , that I might bear the blame , if any came of it . 
But I am used to it , said the lady with a kind of solemn titter , 'and that's my comfort ! 'I give you my word , Martha said Gabriel . 
'Let me give you MY word , my dear , interposed his wife with a Christian smile , 'that such discussions as these between married people , are much better left alone . 
Therefore , if you please , Varden , we'll drop the subject . 
I have no wish to pursue it . 
I might say a great deal . 
But I would rather not . 
Pray don't say any more . 
'I don't want to say any more , rejoined the goaded locksmith . 
'Well then , don't , said Mrs Varden . 
'Nor did I begin it , Martha , added the locksmith , good humouredly , 'I must say that . 
No , you did not begin it , oh dear no , not you , my dear ! 'Well , well , said the locksmith . 
'Oh yes , rejoined his wife , 'quite . 
If you like to say Dolly began it , my dear , I shall not contradict you . 
I need know it , I am sure . 
I am often obliged to bear it in mind , when my inclination perhaps would be for the moment to forget it . 
, inquired of Dolly how she meant to go . 
'I hear you , Varden , said his wife , without rising to the surface . 
Mrs Varden immediately closed the Manual , and bursting into tears , requested to be led upstairs . 
'What is the matter now , Martha ? inquired the locksmith . 
To which Martha rejoined , 'Oh ! don't speak to me , and protested in agony that if anybody had told her so , she wouldn't have believed it . 
Upon my soul I don't know . 
She is a comfort to me , whatever she may be to others . 
'She's no comfort to me , cried Gabriel , made bold by despair . 
'She's the misery of my life . 
She's all the plagues of Egypt in one . 
'She's considered so , I have no doubt , said Mrs Varden . 
'I was prepared for that it's natural it's of a piece with the rest . 
'If it's only for the sake of peace and quietness , father , said Dolly , urging him to go upstairs . 
'Oh , Doll , Doll , said her good natured father . 
'If you ever have a husband of your own Dolly glanced at the glass . 
Well , WHEN you have , said the locksmith , 'never faint , my darling . 
More domestic unhappiness has come of easy fainting , Doll , than from all the greater passions put together . 
Remember that , my dear , if you would be really happy , which you never can be , if your husband isn't . 
And a word in your ear , my precious . 
'Here's master , mim , said Miggs . 
'I can't help it , cried Miggs . 
'I couldn't , if I was to be drownded in 'em . 
Mrs Varden with a faint smile gently reproved her attendant for this enthusiasm , and reminded her at the same time that she was far too unwell to venture out that day . 
'Oh no , you're not , mim , indeed you're not , said Miggs 'I repeal to master master knows you're not , mim . 
The hair , and motion of the shay , will do you good , mim , and you must not give way , you must not raly . 
She must keep up , mustn't she , sir , for all out sakes ? I was a telling her that , just now . 
She must remember us , even if she forgets herself . 
Master will persuade you , mim , I'm sure . 
There's Miss Dolly's a going you know , and master , and you , and all so happy and so comfortable . 
, desired that Miggs might come and help her dress . 
It was necessary for Dolly to get out first . 
Joe had her in his arms yes , though for a space of time no longer than you could count one in , Joe had her in his arms . 
and Varden brought up the rear . 
Old John would have it that they must sit in the bar , and nobody objecting , into the bar they went . 
All bars are snug places , but the Maypole's was the very snuggest , cosiest , and completest bar , that ever the wit of man devised . 
The order for dinner too it might have soothed a savage . 
, and a good salad , and a roast spring chicken , with a dish of sausages and mashed potatoes , or something of that sort . 
Mrs Varden returned from the contemplation of these wonders to the bar again , with a head quite dizzy and bewildered . 
Her housekeeping capacity was not large enough to comprehend them . 
She was obliged to go to sleep . 
Waking was pain , in the midst of such immensity . 
So , using no greater precaution than holding her breath and walking on tiptoe as she passed the library door , she went straight to Emma's room as a privileged visitor . 
It was the liveliest room in the building . 
, and lend some charms of their own to the gloomiest scene . 
'I have heard about it , miss , said Dolly , 'and it's very sad indeed , but when things are at the worst they are sure to mend . 
'But are you sure they are at the worst ? asked Emma with a smile . 
'Why , I don't see how they can very well be more unpromising than they are I really don't , said Dolly . 
'And I bring something to begin with . 
with an affectation of not being able to find what she wanted , which greatly enhanced her importance , at length produced the letter . 
She could not help wondering whether the coach maker suffered very much , and quite pitied the poor man . 
'I am sure that's what I should do if it was me , thought Dolly . 
Even young ladies in love cannot read their letters for ever . 
In course of time the packet was folded up , and it only remained to write the answer . 
But as this promised to be a work of time likewise , Emma said she would put it off until after dinner , and that Dolly must dine with her . 
As Dolly had made up her mind to do so beforehand , she required very little pressing and when they had settled this point , they went to walk in the garden . 
They strolled up and down the terrace walks , talking incessantly at least , Dolly never left off once and making that quarter of the sad and mournful house quite gay . 
'Come here , girl , said Mr Haredale , taking her by the hand . 
'I want to speak to you . 
'Immediately , said Mr Haredale , who had by this time led her into the room and closed the door . 
You have just left Emma ? 'Yes , sir , just this minute . 
Father's waiting for me , sir , if you'll please to have the goodness I know . 
I know , said Mr Haredale . 
What did you bring here to day ? 'Bring here , sir ? faltered Dolly . 
'You will tell me the truth , I am sure . 
Dolly hesitated for a little while , and somewhat emboldened by his manner , said at last , 'Well then , sir . 
'From Mr Edward Chester , of course . 
And you are the bearer of the answer ? Dolly hesitated again , and not being able to decide upon any other course of action , burst into tears . 
'You alarm yourself without cause , said Mr Haredale . 
'Why are you so foolish ? Surely you can answer me . 
You know that I have but to put the question to Emma and learn the truth directly . 
Have you the answer with you ? Dolly had what is popularly called a spirit of her own , and being now fairly at bay , made the best of it . 
'Yes , sir , she rejoined , trembling and frightened as she was . 
'Yes , sir , I have . 
You may kill me if you please , sir , but I won't give it up . 
I'm very sorry , but I won't . 
'I commend your firmness and your plain speaking , said Mr Haredale . 
'Rest assured that I have as little desire to take your letter as your life . 
You are a very discreet messenger and a good girl . 
Would you like the office ? You are the oldest friend she has , and the best entitled to it . 
'I don't know , sir , answered Dolly , not sure but he was bantering her 'I can't say . 
I don't know what they might wish at home . 
I couldn't give an opinion , sir . 
'If your friends had no objection , would you have any ? said Mr Haredale . 
There's a plain question and easy to answer . 
'None at all that I know of sir , replied Dolly . 
'I should be very glad to be near Miss Emma of course , and always am . 
'That's well , said Mr Haredale . 
'That is all I had to say . 
You are anxious to go . 
Don't let me detain you . 
The tears once banished gave place to the smiles , and at last Dolly laughed so much that she was fain to lean against a tree , and give vent to her exultation . 
Between the bracelet and the letter , there was quite enough to do without thinking of anything else and admiring each by turns , Dolly went on gaily . 
She had no sooner moved on again , than she was conscious of the same sound , which was like that of a person tramping stealthily among bushes and brushwood . 
Looking towards the spot whence it appeared to come , she almost fancied she could make out a crouching figure . 
All was quiet as before . 
On she went once more decidedly faster now and tried to sing softly to herself . 
It must he the wind . 
She was really frightened now , and was yet hesitating what to do , when the bushes crackled and snapped , and a man came plunging through them , close before her . 
'Did you come to meet me ? asked Dolly . 
Hugh nodded , and muttered something to the effect that he had been waiting for her , and had expected her sooner . 
'I thought it likely they would send , said Dolly , greatly reassured by this . 
'Nobody sent me , was his sullen answer . 
'I came of my own accord . 
The having him for an unbidden companion in so solitary a place , with the darkness fast gathering about them , renewed and even increased the alarm she had felt at first . 
But there was something of coarse bold admiration in his look , which terrified her very much . 
At length Dolly took courage , shot past him , and hurried on . 
'Why do you spend so much breath in avoiding me ? said Hugh , accommodating his pace to hers , and keeping close at her side . 
'I wish to get back as quickly as I can , and you walk too near me , answered Dolly . 
'Too near ! said Hugh , stooping over her so that she could feel his breath upon her forehead . 
'Why too near ? You're always proud to ME , mistress . 
'I am proud to no one . 
You mistake me , answered Dolly . 
'Fall back , if you please , or go on . 
'Nay , mistress , he rejoined , endeavouring to draw her arm through his , 'I'll walk with you . 
She released herself and clenching her little hand , struck him with right good will . 
'Ha ha ha ! Well done , mistress ! Strike again . 
You shall beat my face , and tear my hair , and pluck my beard up by the roots , and welcome , for the sake of your bright eyes . 
Ha ha ha ! I like it . 
'Let me go , she cried , endeavouring with both her hands to push him off . 
'Let me go this moment . 
'You had as good be kinder to me , Sweetlips , said Hugh . 
Why are you always so proud ? I don't quarrel with you for it . 
I love you when you're proud . 
At length , between the hurry she had made , her terror , and the tightness of his embrace , her strength failed her , and she could go no further . 
'Hugh , cried the panting girl , 'good Hugh if you will leave me I will give you anything everything I have and never tell one word of this to any living creature . 
'You had best not , he answered . 
'Harkye , little dove , you had best not . 
All about here know me , and what I dare do if I have a mind . 
Bring trouble on me , and I'll bring trouble and something more on them in return . 
I care no more for them than for so many dogs not so much why should I ? I'd sooner kill a man than a dog any day . 
I've never been sorry for a man's death in all my life , and I have for a dog's . 
'Softly , darling gently would you fly from rough Hugh , that loves you as well as any drawing room gallant ? 'I would , she answered , struggling to free herself again . 
Help ! 'A fine for crying out , said Hugh . 
'Ha ha ha ! A fine , pretty one , from your lips . 
'Thank Heaven ! cried the girl in an ecstasy . 
'Joe , dear Joe , this way . 
Help ! Her assailant paused , and stood irresolute for a moment , but the shouts drawing nearer and coming quick upon them , forced him to a speedy decision . 
He released her , whispered with a menacing look , 'Tell HIM and see what follows ! and leaping the hedge , was gone in an instant . 
Dolly darted off , and fairly ran into Joe Willet's open arms . 
But he couldn't bear to see her cry it went to his very heart . 
He tried to console her , bent over her , whispered to her some say kissed her , but that's a fable . 
'What was it that frightened you ? said Joe . 
The hesitation and confusion with which she said this , Joe attributed to the fright she had sustained , and no suspicion of the truth occurred to him for a moment . 
'Stop when the words are on your lips . 
A hundred times that night , and very often afterwards , when the disclosure was rising to her tongue , Dolly thought of that , and repressed it . 
'That I was carrying I had it in my hand . 
My bracelet too , she said , clasping her wrist . 
'I have lost them both . 
'Do you mean just now ? said Joe . 
'Either I dropped them then , or they were taken from me , answered Dolly , vainly searching her pocket and rustling her dress . 
'They are gone , both gone . 
Mr Willet received the intelligence of Dolly's trouble with that surprising presence of mind and readiness of speech for which he was so eminently distinguished above all other men . 
Joe , however , took down the lantern and lighted it and arming himself with a stout stick , asked whether Hugh was in the stable . 
'He's lying asleep before the kitchen fire , sir , said Mr Willet . 
'What do you want him for ? 'I want him to come with me to look after this bracelet and letter , answered Joe . 
'Halloa there ! Hugh ! Dolly turned pale as death , and felt as if she must faint forthwith . 
After a few moments , Hugh came staggering in , stretching himself and yawning according to custom , and presenting every appearance of having been roused from a sound nap . 
'Here , sleepy head , said Joe , giving him the lantern . 
'Carry this , and bring the dog , and that small cudgel of yours . 
And woe betide the fellow if we come upon him . 
'What fellow ? growled Hugh , rubbing his eyes and shaking himself . 
'What fellow ? returned Joe , who was in a state of great valour and bustle 'a fellow you ought to know of and be more alive about . 
'They never rob me , cried Hugh with a laugh . 
'I have got nothing to lose . 
But I'd as lief knock them at head as any other men . 
How many are there ? 'Only one , said Dolly faintly , for everybody looked at her . 
'And what was he like , mistress ? said Hugh with a glance at young Willet , so slight and momentary that the scowl it conveyed was lost on all but her . 
'About my height ? 'Not not so tall , Dolly replied , scarce knowing what she said . 
'You wouldn't know him if you saw him then , belike ? said Hugh with a malicious grin . 
'I should not , answered Dolly , bursting into tears again . 
'I don't wish to see him . 
I can't bear to think of him . 
I can't talk about him any more . 
Don't go to look for these things , Mr Joe , pray don't . 
I entreat you not to go with that man . 
'Not to go with me ! cried Hugh . 
'I'm too rough for them all . 
They're all afraid of me . 
Why , bless you mistress , I've the tenderest heart alive . 
I love all the ladies , ma'am , said Hugh , turning to the locksmith's wife . 
with a benighted Mussulman or wild Islander than with a stanch Protestant . 
Arguing from this imperfect state of his morals , Mrs Varden further opined that he had never studied the Manual . 
She was still pursuing this train of discourse , when Hugh , somewhat unceremoniously and irreverently , followed his young master out , and left her to edify the rest of the company . 
The search was wholly unsuccessful . 
Joe had groped along the path a dozen times , and among the grass , and in the dry ditch , and in the hedge , but all in vain . 
Mrs Varden was seldom very Protestant at meals , unless it happened that they were underdone , or overdone , or indeed that anything occurred to put her out of humour . 
Her spirits rose considerably on beholding these goodly preparations , and from the nothingness of good works , she passed to the somethingness of ham and toast with great cheerfulness . 
The proceedings of such a day occasion various fluctuations in the human thermometer , and especially in instruments so sensitively and delicately constructed as Mrs Varden . 
Thus , at dinner Mrs V. stood at summer heat genial , smiling , and delightful . 
After dinner , in the sunshine of the wine , she went up at least half a dozen degrees , and was perfectly enchanting . 
As its effect subsided , she fell rapidly , went to sleep for an hour or so at temperate , and woke at something below freezing . 
The horse was accordingly put in , and the chaise brought round to the door . 
If there had been an executioner behind him with an uplifted axe ready to chop off his head if he touched that hand , Joe couldn't have helped doing it . 
The most curious circumstance about this little incident was , that Dolly didn't seem to know of it . 
She looked so innocent and unconscious when she turned her eyes on Joe , that it was quite provoking . 
'This man again ! cried Dolly , shuddering . 
'What errand are you upon ? 'I come to ride back with you , he answered , glancing covertly at the locksmith's daughter . 
'The roads are not safe just now , he says , and you'd better have a companion . 
'Ride on then , said Joe . 
'I'm not going to turn yet . 
Hugh complied , and they went on again . 
It was his whim or humour to ride immediately before the chaise , and from this position he constantly turned his head , and looked back . 
Dolly felt that he looked at her , but she averted her eyes and feared to raise them once , so great was the dread with which he had inspired her . 
Mrs Varden was obdurate , and being so was not to be overcome by mortal agency . 
'Good night if I must say it , said Joe , sorrowfully . 
'Good night , said Dolly . 
She would have added , 'Take care of that man , and pray don't trust him , but he had turned his horse's head , and was standing close to them . 
What she thought about , going home and whether the coach maker held as favourable a place in her meditations as he had occupied in the morning , is unknown . 
They reached home at last at last , for it was a long way , made none the shorter by Mrs Varden's grumbling . 
Miggs hearing the sound of wheels was at the door immediately . 
'Here they are , Simmun ! Here they are ! cried Miggs , clapping her hands , and issuing forth to help her mistress to alight . 
'Bring a chair , Simmun . 
'I can't help it , my good girl . 
You had better take her in to the fire , said the locksmith . 
'Master sounds unfeeling , mim , said Miggs , in a tone of commiseration , 'but such is not his intentions , I'm sure . 
After what he has seen of you this day , I never will believe but that he has a deal more affection in his heart than to speak unkind . 
Come in and sit yourself down by the fire there's a good dear do . 
The locksmith followed with his hands in his pockets , and Mr Tappertit trundled off with the chaise to a neighbouring stable . 
She has been frightened , you know , and is not at all well to night . 
To all such propositions Miggs assented freely . 
was a state requiring great fortitude and forbearance . 
For that gentleman , on account of Dolly's indisposition , had been requested to take his supper in the workshop , and it was conveyed thither by Miss Miggs's own fair hands . 
'I never heard the like , nor nobody else , pursued Miggs . 
'The idea of interfering with HER . 
'Why , that Dolly , said Miggs , with an extremely sharp emphasis on the name . 
'But , oh upon my word and honour , young Joseph Willet is a brave one and he do deserve her , that he do . 
'Woman ! said Mr Tappertit , jumping off the counter on which he was seated 'beware ! 'My stars , Simmun ! cried Miggs , in affected astonishment . 
'Oh , very well if you're in a huff , cried Miggs , turning away . 
'Huff or no huff , said Mr Tappertit , detaining her by the wrist . 
'Oh , Simmun ! 'I tell you , said the 'prentice , 'his days are numbered . 
Miggs departed at his bidding , but less because of his bidding than because she desired to chuckle in secret . 
was usually of the retrospective order , cut him short by declaiming on the sinfulness of such junketings , and holding that it was high time to go to bed . 
To bed therefore she withdrew , with an aspect as grim and gloomy as that of the Maypole's own state couch and to bed the rest of the establishment soon afterwards repaired . 
He was dressing , as it seemed , by easy stages , and having performed half the journey was taking a long rest . 
Completely attired as to his legs and feet in the trimmest fashion of the day , he had yet the remainder of his toilet to perform . 
He became thoughtful again , and the toothpick was in requisition . 
Apart from any natural prepossession in my own favour , I believed I was . 
I should quite blush for myself before this stupendous creature , if remembering his precepts , one might blush at anything . 
An amazing man ! a nobleman indeed ! any King or Queen may make a Lord , but only the Devil himself and the Graces can make a Chesterfield . 
'For , say they , 'this is honesty , this is truth . 
All mankind are like us , but they have not the candour to avow it . 
'Much after their accustomed time . 
The usual pretence I suppose . 
No doubt a heavy payment to make up tomorrow . 
Poor fellow , he loses time , and time is money as the good proverb says I never found it out though . 
What now ? You know I am not at home . 
I told him you were out , but he said he was to wait while I brought it in , and wouldn't go till I did . 
'He was quite right , returned his master , 'and you're a blockhead , possessing no judgment or discretion whatever . 
Tell him to come in , and see that he rubs his shoes for exactly five minutes first . 
The man laid the whip on a chair , and withdrew . 
In the morning , between my breakfast and the paper , I could spare them another hour in the evening before dinner say another . 
They might pay themselves in calls , with interest , in twelve months . 
I think I shall propose it to them . 
How are you ? 'I'm well enough , said Hugh impatiently . 
'You look a perfect marvel of health . 
'I'd rather stand , said Hugh . 
'Please yourself my good fellow , returned Mr Chester rising , slowly pulling off the loose robe he wore , and sitting down before the dressing glass . 
'Please yourself by all means . 
'Are you going to speak to me , master ? he said , after a long silence . 
'My worthy creature , returned Mr Chester , 'you are a little ruffled and out of humour . 
I'll wait till you're quite yourself again . 
I am in no hurry . 
This behaviour had its intended effect . 
It humbled and abashed the man , and made him still more irresolute and uncertain . 
Everything contributed to this effect . 
I have spoken , have I not ? I am waiting for you . 
'Then I have come , sir , said Hugh , 'and I have brought it back , and something else along with it . 
A letter , sir , it is , that I took from the person who had charge of it . 
As he spoke , he laid upon the dressing table , Dolly's lost epistle . 
The very letter that had cost her so much trouble . 
'Did you obtain this by force , my good fellow ? said Mr Chester , casting his eye upon it without the least perceptible surprise or pleasure . 
'Not quite , said Hugh . 
'Who was the messenger from whom you took it ? 'A woman . 
'Oh indeed ! said Mr Chester gaily . 
'What else ? 'Well a kiss , replied Hugh , after some hesitation . 
'And what else ? 'Nothing . 
'I think , said Mr Chester , in the same easy tone , and smiling twice or thrice to try if the patch adhered 'I think there was something else . 
I have heard a trifle of jewellery spoken of a mere trifle a thing of such little value , indeed , that you may have forgotten it . 
'You took that for yourself my excellent friend , he said , 'and may keep it . 
I am neither a thief nor a receiver . 
Don't show it to me . 
You had better hide it again , and lose no time . 
Don't let me see where you put it either , he added , turning away his head . 
'You're not a receiver ! said Hugh bluntly , despite the increasing awe in which he held him . 
'What do you call THAT , master ? striking the letter with his heavy hand . 
'I call that quite another thing , said Mr Chester coolly . 
'I shall prove it presently , as you will see . 
You are thirsty , I suppose ? Hugh drew his sleeve across his lips , and gruffly answered yes . 
'Step to that closet and bring me a bottle you will see there , and a glass . 
His patron followed him with his eyes , and when his back was turned , smiled as he had never done when he stood beside the mirror . 
On his return he filled the glass , and bade him drink . 
That dram despatched , he poured him out another , and another . 
'How many can you bear ? he said , filling the glass again . 
'As many as you like to give me . 
You were drinking before you came here . 
'I always am when I can get it , cried Hugh boisterously , waving the empty glass above his head , and throwing himself into a rude dancing attitude . 
I should have died in a ditch . 
'Do you see this hand , master , said Hugh , 'and this arm ? baring the brawny limb to the elbow . 
'It was once mere skin and bone , and would have been dust in some poor churchyard by this time , but for the drink . 
'You may cover it , said Mr Chester , 'it's sufficiently real in your sleeve . 
'I should never have been spirited up to take a kiss from the proud little beauty , master , but for the drink , cried Hugh . 
'Ha ha ha ! It was a good one . 
As sweet as honeysuckle , I warrant you . 
I thank the drink for it . 
I'll drink to the drink again , master . 
What's your age ? 'I don't know . 
'At any rate , said Mr Chester , 'you are young enough to escape what I may call a natural death for some years to come . 
It is pleasant , I have no doubt , while it lasts but like many other pleasures in this transitory world , it seldom lasts long . 
And really if in the ingenuousness of youth , you open your heart so readily on the subject , I am afraid your career will be an extremely short one . 
'How's this ? said Hugh . 
'What do you talk of master ? Who was it set me on ? 'Who ? said Mr Chester , wheeling sharply round , and looking full at him for the first time . 
Who was it ? Hugh faltered , and muttered something which was not audible . 
'Who was it ? I am curious to know , said Mr Chester , with surpassing affability . 
'Some rustic beauty perhaps ? But be cautious , my good friend . 
They are not always to be trusted . 
Do take my advice now , and be careful of yourself . 
With these words he turned to the glass again , and went on with his toilet . 
Hugh would have answered him that he , the questioner himself had set him on , but the words stuck in his throat . 
The consummate art with which his patron had led him to this point , and managed the whole conversation , perfectly baffled him . 
The ascendency which it was the purpose of the man of the world to establish over this savage instrument , was gained from that time . 
, should be so soon and so thoroughly subdued , Hugh stood cowering before him , regarding him uneasily from time to time , while he finished dressing . 
When he had done so , he took up the letter , broke the seal , and throwing himself back in his chair , read it leisurely through . 
When it was in a full blaze , he tossed it into the grate , and there it smouldered away . 
'It was directed to my son , he said , turning to Hugh , 'and you did quite right to bring it here . 
I opened it on my own responsibility , and you see what I have done with it . 
Take this , for your trouble . 
Hugh stepped forward to receive the piece of money he held out to him . 
'And don't , said his patron , with an air of the very kindest patronage , 'don't be at all downcast or uneasy respecting that little rashness we have been speaking of . 
Your neck is as safe in my hands , my good fellow , as though a baby's fingers clasped it , I assure you . 
Hugh accepted it from his hand , and looking stealthily at his smiling face , drank the contents in silence . 
'Don't you ha , ha ! don't you drink to the drink any more ? said Mr Chester , in his most winning manner . 
'To you , sir , was the sullen answer , with something approaching to a bow . 
By the bye , what is your name , my good soul ? You are called Hugh , I know , of course your other name ? 'I have no other name . 
I have been always called Hugh nothing more . 
They might have let her live . 
'How very sad ! exclaimed his patron , with a condescending smile . 
'I have no doubt she was an exceedingly fine woman . 
'You see that dog of mine ? said Hugh , abruptly . 
'Such a dog as that , and one of the same breed , was the only living thing except me that howled that day , said Hugh . 
'Out of the two thousand odd there was a larger crowd for its being a woman the dog and I alone had any pity . 
'It was dull of the brute , certainly , said Mr Chester , 'and very like a brute . 
Hugh made no rejoinder , but whistling to his dog , who sprung up at the sound and came jumping and sporting about him , bade his sympathising friend good night . 
'Remember you're safe with me quite safe . 
So long as you deserve it , my good fellow , as I hope you always will , you have a friend in me , on whose silence you may rely . 
Now do be careful of yourself , pray do , and consider what jeopardy you might have stood in . 
'And yet , he said , as he took a pinch of snuff , 'I do not like their having hanged his mother . 
The fellow has a fine eye , and I am sure she was handsome . 
But very probably she was coarse red nosed perhaps , and had clumsy feet . 
Aye , it was all for the best , no doubt . 
'Foh ! said Mr Chester . 
'The very atmosphere that centaur has breathed , seems tainted with the cart and ladder . 
Bring some scent and sprinkle the floor and take away the chair he sat upon , and air it and dash a little of that mixture upon me . 
by scores who individually would shrink from and be repelled by the object of their lavish regard are things of course , which will suggest themselves . 
Matter so commonplace needs but a passing glance , and there an end . 
The despisers of mankind apart from the mere fools and mimics , of that creed are of two sorts . 
They who believe their merit neglected and unappreciated , make up one class they who receive adulation and flattery , knowing their own worthlessness , compose the other . 
Be sure that the coldest hearted misanthropes are ever of this last order . 
Burn it when you've read it . 
'Where in the name of the Gunpowder Plot did you pick up this ? said his master . 
It was given him by a person then waiting at the door , the man replied . 
'With a cloak and dagger ? said Mr Chester . 
With nothing more threatening about him , it appeared , than a leather apron and a dirty face . 
'Sir , said Mr Tappertit with a low bow , 'I thank you for this condescension , and am glad to see you . 
Mr Tappertit bowed again , and displayed his legs to the best advantage . 
'I'm his 'prentice , sir . 
'What THEN ? 'Ahem ! said Mr Tappertit . 
allow me to offer the best substitute that circumstances will admit of . 
'Thank you , answered Mr Chester , politely accepting it , and turning to some blood red characters at one end . 
Is that the 'Without the numbers , sir , that is my name , replied the 'prentice . 
'They are merely intended as directions to the washerwoman , and have no connection with myself or family . 
YOUR name , sir , said Mr Tappertit , looking very hard at his nightcap , 'is Chester , I suppose ? You needn't pull it off , sir , thank you . 
I observe E. C. from here . 
We will take the rest for granted . 
'It's going to be fitted on a ware'us door in Thames Street . 
'You'll excuse my mentioning it , I hope ? 'Don't apologise , sir , I beg . 
And now , if you please , to business . 
During the whole of this dialogue , Mr Chester had suffered nothing but his smile of unvarying serenity and politeness to appear upon his face . 
'From what passes in our house , said Mr Tappertit , 'I am aware , sir , that your son keeps company with a young lady against your inclinations . 
Sir , your son has not used me well . 
'Mr Tappertit , said the other , 'you grieve me beyond description . 
'Thank you , sir , replied the 'prentice . 
'I'm glad to hear you say so . 
He's very proud , sir , is your son very haughty . 
'I am afraid he IS haughty , said Mr Chester . 
Besides which , sir , he is but a young man himself and I do not consider thank'ee Sim , a proper form of address on those occasions . 
'Mr Tappertit , your wisdom is beyond your years . 
'I thank you for your good opinion , sir , said Sim , much gratified , 'and will endeavour so to do . 
I am on your side . 
Mr Tappertit stopped to take breath after this , and then started fresh again . 
'Now , sir , I am a coming to the point . 
You will inquire of me , how is this to he prevented ? I'll tell you how . 
If an honest , civil , smiling gentleman like you 'Mr Tappertit really 'No , no , I'm serious , rejoined the 'prentice , 'I am , upon my soul . 
'Mr Tappertit , your knowledge of human nature 'Wait a minute , said Sim , folding his arms with a dreadful calmness . 
'Now I come to THE point . 
He will , sir , for the hatred and malice that he bears to you let alone the pleasure of doing a bad action , which to him is its own reward . 
'A little private vengeance in this , Mr Tappertit ? 'Private vengeance , sir , or public sentiment , or both combined destroy him , said Mr Tappertit . 
Miggs and me both say so . 
We can't bear the plotting and undermining that takes place . 
Our souls recoil from it . 
Barnaby Rudge and Mrs Rudge are in it likewise but the villain , Joseph Willet , is the ringleader . 
Their plottings and schemes are known to me and Miggs . 
If you want information of 'em , apply to us . 
Put Joseph Willet down , sir . 
'That fellow , said Mr Chester , relaxing his face when he was fairly gone , 'is good practice . 
I HAVE some command of my features , beyond all doubt . 
He fully confirms what I suspected , though and blunt tools are sometimes found of use , where sharper instruments would fail . 
I fear I may be obliged to make great havoc among these worthy people . 
A troublesome necessity ! I quite feel for them . 
With that he fell into a quiet slumber subsided into such a gentle , pleasant sleep , that it was quite infantine . 
Grip in their company , of course . 
It is something to look upon enjoyment , so that it be free and wild and in the face of nature , though it is but the enjoyment of an idiot . 
Listen to the million voices in the summer air , and find one dismal as your own . 
The widow's breast was full of care , was laden heavily with secret dread and sorrow but her boy's gaiety of heart gladdened her , and beguiled the long journey . 
It was her native village . 
How many recollections crowded on her mind when it appeared in sight ! Two and twenty years . 
Her boy's whole life and history . 
The last time she looked back upon those roofs among the trees , she carried him in her arms , an infant . 
She took his arm and they hurried through the village street . 
It was the same as it was wont to be in old times , yet different too , and wore another air . 
The change was in herself , not it but she never thought of that , and wondered at its alteration , and where it lay , and what it was . 
None of them knew her they passed each well remembered house , and yard , and homestead and striking into the fields , were soon alone again . 
The Warren was the end of their journey . 
Mr Haredale was walking in the garden , and seeing them as they passed the iron gate , unlocked it , and bade them enter that way . 
'At length you have mustered heart to visit the old place , he said to the widow . 
'I am glad you have . 
'For the first time , and the last , sir , she replied . 
'The first for many years , but not the last ? 'The very last . 
I have often told you , you should return here . 
You would be happier here than elsewhere , I know . 
As to Barnaby , it's quite his home . 
'And Grip's , said Barnaby , holding the basket open . 
'Your life has been an example of patience and fortitude , except in this one particular which has often given me great pain . 
that you associate us with the author of our joint misfortunes . 
'Associate you with him , sir ! she cried . 
'Indeed , said Mr Haredale , 'I think you do . 
'You little know my heart , sir . 
'We are a fallen house . 
I feel it so , God knows , he added , hastily . 
'I took my resolution but last night , and taking it , felt that I must not lose a day a day ! an hour in having speech with you . 
They had by this time reached the house . 
Mr Haredale paused for a moment , and looked at her as if surprised by the energy of her manner . 
But the widow shrunk from her embrace as though she feared her , and sunk down trembling on a chair . 
'It is the return to this place after so long an absence , said Emma gently . 
'Pray ring , dear uncle or stay Barnaby will run himself and ask for wine 'Not for the world , she cried . 
'It would have another taste I could not touch it . 
I want but a minute's rest . 
Miss Haredale stood beside her chair , regarding her with silent pity . 
She remained for a little time quite still then rose and turned to Mr Haredale , who had sat down in his easy chair , and was contemplating her with fixed attention . 
The tale connected with the mansion borne in mind , it seemed , as has been already said , the chosen theatre for such a deed as it had known . 
Nor were the group assembled there , unfitting tenants of the spot . 
'I scarcely know , said the widow , breaking silence , 'how to begin . 
You will think my mind disordered . 
'The whole tenor of your quiet and reproachless life since you were last here , returned Mr Haredale , mildly , 'shall bear witness for you . 
Why do you fear to awaken such a suspicion ? You do not speak to strangers . 
You have not to claim our interest or consideration for the first time . 
Any advice or assistance that I can give you , you know is yours of right , and freely yours . 
'That , sir , she answered , 'is the misery of my distress . 
I can give no reason whatever . 
My own bare word is all that I can offer . 
It is my duty , my imperative and bounden duty . 
If I did not discharge it , I should be a base and guilty wretch . 
Having said that , my lips are sealed , and I can say no more . 
Heaven is my witness that go where I may , I shall preserve those feelings unimpaired . 
'These are strange riddles , said Mr Haredale . 
'In this world , sir , she replied , 'they may , perhaps , never be explained . 
In another , the Truth will be discovered in its own good time . 
You do not know , she added , suddenly , 'to what uses it may be applied into what hands it may pass . 
I do , and I renounce it . 
'Surely , said Mr Haredale , 'its uses rest with you . 
They rest with me no longer . 
It may be it IS devoted to purposes that mock the dead in their graves . 
It never can prosper with me . 
It will bring some other heavy judgement on the head of my dear son , whose innocence will suffer for his mother's guilt . 
'What words are these ! cried Mr Haredale , regarding her with wonder . 
Ask me no more questions , sir but believe that I am rather to be pitied than condemned . 
I must leave my house to morrow , for while I stay there , it is haunted . 
My future dwelling , if I am to live in peace , must be a secret . 
From this proposal , however , she recoiled with the same indescribable repugnance she had manifested when they met . 
They were to return by the coach . 
As there was an interval of full two hours before it started , and they needed rest and some refreshment , Barnaby begged hard for a visit to the Maypole . 
She sat here , thoughtful and apart , until their time was out , and the distant horn told that the coach was coming . 
never to say die on any terms . 
They were soon on the coach top and rolling along the road . 
It went round by the Maypole , and stopped at the door . 
Joe was from home , and Hugh came sluggishly out to hand up the parcel that it called for . 
There was no fear of old John coming out . 
They could see him from the coach roof fast asleep in his cosy bar . 
It was a part of John's character . 
He made a point of going to sleep at the coach's time . 
She dropped her veil as Hugh climbed up , and while he hung behind , and talked to Barnaby in whispers . 
Chapter 'And you're not surprised to hear this , Varden ? said Mr Haredale . 
'Well ! You and she have always been the best friends , and you should understand her if anybody does . 
'I ask your pardon , sir , rejoined the locksmith . 
'I didn't say I understood her . 
I wouldn't have the presumption to say that of any woman . 
It's not so easily done . 
But I am not so much surprised , sir , as you expected me to be , certainly . 
She has made bad friends , how , or when , I don't know but that her house is a refuge for one robber and cut throat at least , I am certain . 
There , sir ! Now it's out . 
'Varden ! 'My own eyes , sir , are my witnesses , and for her sake I would be willingly half blind , if I could but have the pleasure of mistrusting 'em . 
'And you made no effort to detain him ? said Mr Haredale quickly . 
'Sir , returned the locksmith , 'she herself prevented me held me , with all her strength , and hung about me until he had got clear off . 
And having gone so far , he related circumstantially all that had passed upon the night in question . 
This dialogue was held in a low tone in the locksmith's little parlour , into which honest Gabriel had shown his visitor on his arrival . 
'I forbore , said Gabriel , 'from repeating one word of this to anybody , as it could do her no good and might do her great harm . 
And indeed , said the good natured locksmith , 'there was a good deal in the look , more than could have been put into a great many words . 
It said among other matters Don't ask me anything so imploringly , that I didn't ask her anything . 
You'll think me an old fool , I know , sir . 
If it's any relief to call me one , pray do . 
'I am greatly disturbed by what you tell me , said Mr Haredale , after a silence . 
'What meaning do you attach to it ? The locksmith shook his head , and looked doubtfully out of window at the failing light . 
'She cannot have married again , said Mr Haredale . 
'Not without our knowledge surely , sir . 
'She may have done so , in the fear that it would lead , if known , to some objection or estrangement . 
It bears strongly on the whole drift of her discourse yesterday , and would quite explain her conduct . 
Five and twenty years ago , where was there a girl like her ? A gay , handsome , laughing , bright eyed damsel ! Think what she was , sir . 
It makes my heart ache now , even now , though I'm an old man , with a woman for a daughter , to think what she was and what she is . 
We all change , but that's with Time Time does his work honestly , and I don't mind him . 
A fig for Time , sir . 
Use him well , and he's a hearty fellow , and scorns to have you at a disadvantage . 
are devils , sir secret , stealthy , undermining devils who tread down the brightest flowers in Eden , and do more havoc in a month than Time does in a year . 
Picture to yourself for one minute what Mary was before they went to work with her fresh heart and face do her that justice and say whether such a thing is possible . 
'You're a good fellow , Varden , said Mr Haredale , 'and are quite right . 
I have brooded on that subject so long , that every breath of suspicion carries me back to it . 
She would have been as much too good for me . 
But she WAS too good for him he wasn't free and frank enough for her . 
I don't reproach his memory with it , poor fellow I only want to put her before you as she really was . 
In a voice nearly as full and round as his own , Mr Haredale cried 'Well said ! and bade him come away without more parley . 
The locksmith complied right willingly and both getting into a hackney coach which was waiting at the door , drove off straightway . 
They alighted at the street corner , and dismissing their conveyance , walked to the house . 
To their first knock at the door there was no response . 
A second met with the like result . 
How very much you have improved in your appearance since our last meeting ! I never saw you looking better . 
'The door will be opened immediately , he said . 
'There is nobody but a very dilapidated female to perform such offices . 
You will excuse her infirmities ? If she were in a more elevated station of society , she would be gouty . 
Being but a hewer of wood and drawer of water , she is rheumatic . 
My dear Haredale , these are natural class distinctions , depend upon it . 
Mr Haredale , whose face resumed its lowering and distrustful look the moment he heard the voice , inclined his head stiffly , and turned his back upon the speaker . 
'Not opened yet , said Mr Chester . 
'Dear me ! I hope the aged soul has not caught her foot in some unlucky cobweb by the way . 
She is there at last ! Come in , I beg ! Mr Haredale entered , followed by the locksmith . 
Turning with a look of great astonishment to the old woman who had opened the door , he inquired for Mrs Rudge for Barnaby . 
They were both gone , she replied , wagging her ancient head , for good . 
There was a gentleman in the parlour , who perhaps could tell them more . 
That was all SHE knew . 
'Your trifling is ill timed , retorted the other in a suppressed tone and voice , 'and its subject ill chosen . 
Reserve it for those who are your friends , and do not expend it on me . 
I lay no claim to the distinction , and have the self denial to reject it . 
'My dear , good sir , said Mr Chester , 'you are heated with walking . 
Sit down , I beg . 
Our friend is 'Is but a plain honest man , returned Mr Haredale , 'and quite unworthy of your notice . 
'Gabriel Varden by name , sir , said the locksmith bluntly . 
'A worthy English yeoman ! said Mr Chester . 
'A most worthy yeoman , of whom I have frequently heard my son Ned darling fellow speak , and have often wished to see . 
Varden , my good friend , I am glad to know you . 
You wonder now , he said , turning languidly to Mr Haredale , 'to see me here . 
Now , I am sure you do . 
Mr Haredale glanced at him not fondly or admiringly smiled , and held his peace . 
'The mystery is solved in a moment , said Mr Chester 'in a moment . 
Will you step aside with me one instant . 
I have bought them off . 
'You have done what ? said Mr Haredale . 
'Bought them off , returned his smiling friend . 
'I have found it necessary to take some active steps towards setting this boy and girl attachment quite at rest , and have begun by removing these two agents . 
You are surprised ? Who CAN withstand the influence of a little money ! They wanted it , and have been bought off . 
We have nothing more to fear from them . 
'Gone ! echoed Mr Haredale . 
Between you and me they have their hidden reasons , but upon that point I have pledged myself to secrecy . 
She appointed to see you here to night , I know , but found it inconvenient , and couldn't wait . 
Here is the key of the door . 
'Our roads diverge widely , as you know . 
For the present , I shall remain here . 
'You will be hipped , Haredale you will be miserable , melancholy , utterly wretched , returned the other . 
'It's a place of the very last description for a man of your temper . 
I know it will make you very miserable . 
'Let it , said Mr Haredale , sitting down 'and thrive upon the thought . 
'Yours , sir , would be too much honour for the like of me , replied the locksmith , hesitating . 
'I wish you to remain here a little while , Varden , said Mr Haredale , without looking towards them . 
'I have a word or two to say to you . 
'I will not intrude upon your conference another moment , said Mr Chester with inconceivable politeness . 
'May it be satisfactory to you both ! God bless you ! So saying , and bestowing upon the locksmith a most refulgent smile , he left them . 
And here is one of the inestimable advantages of having a perfect command over one's inclinations . 
I have been tempted in these two short interviews , to draw upon that fellow , fifty times . 
Five men in six would have yielded to the impulse . 
By suppressing mine , I wound him deeper and more keenly than if I were the best swordsman in all Europe , and he the worst . 
You are the wise man's very last resource , he said , tapping the hilt of his weapon 'we can but appeal to you when all else is said and done . 
He smiled so very pleasantly as he communed with himself after this manner , that a beggar was emboldened to follow for alms , and to dog his footsteps for some distance . 
'Which is as easy as cursing , he wisely added , as he took his seat , 'and more becoming to the face . 
'Industry , said Mr Chester , 'is the soul of business , and the keystone of prosperity . 
Mr Tappertit , I shall expect you to invite me to dinner when you are Lord Mayor of London . 
We must have another state of society , sir , before you catch me being Lord Mayor . 
How de do , sir ? 'The better , Mr Tappertit , for looking into your ingenuous face once more . 
I hope you are well . 
My life's a burden to me . 
If it wasn't for wengeance , I'd play at pitch and toss with it on the losing hazard . 
'Is Mrs Varden at home ? said Mr Chester . 
'Sir , returned Sim , eyeing him over with a look of concentrated expression , 'she is . 
Did you wish to see her ? Mr Chester nodded . 
'Then come this way , sir , said Sim , wiping his face upon his apron . 
Would you permit me to whisper in your ear , one half a second ? 'By all means . 
Hush ! I say no more . 
Having said that much , he beckoned the visitor with a mysterious aspect to follow him to the parlour door , where he announced him in the voice of a gentleman usher . 
'And not Mr Ed'dard , mind , said Sim , looking into the door again , and adding this by way of postscript in his own person 'it's his father . 
'Oh ! Now ! There ! An't I always a saying it ! exclaimed Miggs , clapping her hands . 
'If he an't been and took Missis for her own daughter . 
Well , she DO look like it , that she do . 
Only think of that , mim ! 'Is it possible , said Mr Chester in his softest tones , 'that this is Mrs Varden ! I am amazed . 
That is not your daughter , Mrs Varden ? No , no . 
'My daughter , indeed , sir , returned Mrs V. , blushing with great juvenility . 
'Ah , Mrs Varden ! cried the visitor . 
'Ah , ma'am humanity is indeed a happy lot , when we can repeat ourselves in others , and still be young as they . 
You must allow me to salute you the custom of the country , my dear madam your daughter too . 
Dolly showed some reluctance to perform this ceremony , but was sharply reproved by Mrs Varden , who insisted on her undergoing it that minute . 
For pride , she said with great severity , was one of the seven deadly sins , and humility and lowliness of heart were virtues . 
As she stood with downcast eyes , not liking to look up and meet his , he gazed upon her with an approving air , and then turned to her mother . 
should be a happy man , Mrs Varden . 
'Ah ! sighed Mrs V. , shaking her head . 
'Is that the case ? said Mr Chester , compassionately . 
So much the worse , sir , for them as has the slighting of 'em on their consciences when they're gone to be in full blow elsewhere . 
And Miss Miggs cast up her eyes to signify where that might be . 
Mr Chester perceiving this , and seeing how the volume was lettered on the back , took it gently from her hand , and turned the fluttering leaves . 
'My favourite book , dear madam . 
'You're a mother , Mrs Varden , said Mr Chester , taking a pinch of snuff , 'and you know what I , as a father , feel , when he is praised . 
She was attending evidently to what he said . 
Let us be sincere , my dear madam and Protestant , murmured Mrs Varden . 
and Protestant above all things . 
Now , to be sure , Mrs Varden thought , here is a perfect character . 
He so contrived it , and said it in that way that it appeared to have been forced from him , and its effect was marvellous . 
Even Miss Miggs , who was divided between admiration of Mr Chester and a mortal jealousy of her young mistress , had sufficient leisure to be propitiated . 
Even Mr Tappertit , though occupied as we have seen in gazing at his heart's delight , could not wholly divert his thoughts from the voice of the other charmer . 
'Dear madam , he said , pressing her hand delicately to his lips 'be seated . 
Mrs Varden called up quite a courtly air , and became seated . 
'You guess my object ? said Mr Chester , drawing a chair towards her . 
'You divine my purpose ? I am an affectionate parent , my dear Mrs Varden . 
'That I am sure you are , sir , said Mrs V. 'Thank you , returned Mr Chester , tapping his snuff box lid . 
'Heavy moral responsibilities rest with parents , Mrs Varden . 
'I may confide in you , said Mr Chester , 'without reserve . 
I love my son , ma'am , dearly and loving him as I do , I would save him from working certain misery . 
You know of his attachment to Miss Haredale . 
You have abetted him in it , and very kind of you it was to do so . 
I am deeply obliged to you most deeply obliged to you for your interest in his behalf but my dear ma'am , it is a mistaken one , I do assure you . 
Mrs Varden stammered that she was sorry 'Sorry , my dear ma'am , he interposed . 
'Never be sorry for what is so very amiable , so very good in intention , so perfectly like yourself . 
I should have mentioned these circumstances to your husband but he has you will excuse my saying this so freely he has NOT your quickness of apprehension or depth of moral sense . 
What an extremely airy house this is , and how beautifully kept ! For one like myself a widower so long these tokens of female care and superintendence have inexpressible charms . 
that the young Mr Chester must be in the wrong and the old Mr Chester must he in the right . 
'My son Ned , resumed her tempter with his most winning air , 'has had , I am told , your lovely daughter's aid , and your open hearted husband's . 
Much more than mine , sir , said Mrs Varden 'a great deal more . 
I have often had my doubts . 
It's a 'A bad example , suggested Mr Chester . 
Your daughter is at that age when to set before her an encouragement for young persons to rebel against their parents on this most important point , is particularly injudicious . 
Mrs Varden looked as wise as if she had really said something to deserve this compliment firmly believed she had , in short and her faith in her own shrewdness increased considerably . 
'My dear ma'am , said Mr Chester , 'you embolden me to be plain with you . 
My son and I are at variance on this point . 
The young lady and her natural guardian differ upon it , also . 
And the closing point is , that my son is bound by his duty to me , by his honour , by every solemn tie and obligation , to marry some one else . 
'Engaged to marry another lady ! quoth Mrs Varden , holding up her hands . 
'My dear madam , brought up , educated , and trained , expressly for that purpose . 
Miss Haredale , I am told , is a very charming creature . 
'I am her foster mother , and should know the best young lady in the world , said Mrs Varden . 
'I have not the smallest doubt of it . 
I am sure she is . 
And you , who have stood in that tender relation towards her , are bound to consult her happiness . 
Their hearts never grow , my dear ma'am , till after thirty . 
I don't believe , no , I do NOT believe , that I had any heart myself when I was Ned's age . 
'Oh sir , said Mrs Varden , 'I think you must have had . 
It's impossible that you , who have so much now , can ever have been without any . 
How very natural ! My dear madam , I object to him to him emphatically to Ned himself . 
Mrs Varden was perfectly aghast at the disclosure . 
Ask your own , I beseech you . 
'Truly , thought Mrs Varden , 'this gentleman is a saint . 
A marriage with my son , whom I should be compelled to disown , would be followed by years of misery they would be separated , my dear madam , in a twelvemonth . 
'That's he , cried Mr Chester . 
'Suppose this Joseph Willet now , were to aspire to the affections of your charming daughter , and were to engage them . 
'It would be like his impudence , interposed Mrs Varden , bridling , 'to dare to think of such a thing ! 'My dear madam , that's the whole case . 
I know it would be like his impudence . 
I don't know what he does there . 
I don't see what occasion he has to busy himself in her affairs at all , sir . 
Mrs Varden was but a woman , and had her share of vanity , obstinacy , and love of power . 
'Oh , mim , said Miggs , returning with the candle . 
'For my part , said Dolly , in a thoughtful manner , 'I half believe Mr Chester is something like Miggs in that respect . 
For all his politeness and pleasant speaking , I am pretty sure he was making game of us , more than once . 
How dare you , Dolly ? I'm astonished at you . 
The rudeness of your whole behaviour this evening has been disgraceful . 
that such an apostolic customer was worth half a dozen of the ordinary run of visitors , at least . 
It was his custom to bid his servant go to bed at his own time unless he had orders to the contrary , and to leave a candle on the common stair . 
It was the heavy breathing of a sleeper , close at hand . 
Some fellow had lain down on the open staircase , and was slumbering soundly . 
While he was thus engaged , the sleeper , without any starting or turning round , awoke . 
So they remained staring at each other , until Mr Chester at last broke silence , and asked him in a low voice , why he lay sleeping there . 
'I thought , said Hugh , struggling into a sitting posture and gazing at him intently , still , 'that you were a part of my dream . 
It was a curious one . 
I hope it may never come true , master . 
'What makes you shiver ? 'The the cold , I suppose , he growled , as he shook himself and rose . 
'I hardly know where I am yet . 
'Do you know me ? said Mr Chester . 
'Ay , I know you , he answered . 
'I was dreaming of you we're not where I thought we were . 
Then he rubbed his eyes and shook himself again , and followed his conductor into his own rooms . 
'You have been drinking again , my fine fellow , he said , as Hugh went down on one knee , and did as he was told . 
'And can you do nothing better , my pleasant friend , than fall asleep , and shake the very building with your snores ? said Mr Chester . 
'Can't you dream in your straw at home , dull dog as you are , that you need come here to do it ? Reach me those slippers , and tread softly . 
Fill the glass once you'll find it and the bottle in the same place and empty it to keep yourself awake . 
Hugh obeyed again even more zealously and having done so , presented himself before his patron . 
'Now , said Mr Chester , 'what do you want with me ? 'There was news to day , returned Hugh . 
'Your son was at our house came down on horseback . 
He tried to see the young woman , but couldn't get sight of her . 
that none of his people shall interfere and get him into trouble . 
He's a landlord , he says , and lives on everybody's custom . 
'He's a jewel , smiled Mr Chester , 'and the better for being a dull one . 
Well ? 'Varden's daughter that's the girl I kissed and stole the bracelet from upon the king's highway , said Mr Chester , composedly . 
'Yes what of her ? 'She wrote a note at our house to the young woman , saying she lost the letter I brought to you , and you burnt . 
Our Joe was to carry it , but the old one kept him at home all next day , on purpose that he shouldn't . 
Next morning he gave it to me to take and here it is . 
'You didn't deliver it then , my good friend ? said Mr Chester , twirling Dolly's note between his finger and thumb , and feigning to be surprised . 
'I supposed you'd want to have it , retorted Hugh . 
'Burn one , burn all , I thought . 
'My devil may care acquaintance , said Mr Chester 'really if you do not draw some nicer distinctions , your career will be cut short with most surprising suddenness . 
I don't know how to please you , master . 
'I shall deliver it , returned his patron , putting it away after a moment's consideration , 'myself . 
Does the young lady walk out , on fine mornings ? 'Mostly about noon is her usual time . 
'Alone ? 'Yes , alone . 
'Where ? 'In the grounds before the house . 
Them that the footpath crosses . 
'Mr Hugh , if I should ride up to the Maypole door , you will do me the favour only to have seen me once . 
You must suppress your gratitude , and endeavour to forget my forbearance in the matter of the bracelet . 
You comprehend me ? Hugh understood him perfectly . 
After a pause he muttered that he hoped his patron would involve him in no trouble about this last letter for he had kept it back solely with the view of pleasing him . 
, that I will always protect you so long as you deserve it . 
Now , do set your mind at rest . 
Keep it at ease , I beg of you . 
When a man puts himself in my power so thoroughly as you have done , I really feel as though he had a kind of claim upon me . 
I am more disposed to mercy and forbearance under such circumstances than I can tell you , Hugh . 
Fill that glass once more to cheer you on your road homewards I am really quite ashamed to think how far you have to go and then God bless you for the night . 
'They think , said Hugh , when he had tossed the liquor down , 'that I am sleeping soundly in the stable . 
Ha ha ha ! The stable door is shut , but the steed's gone , master . 
'You are a most convivial fellow , returned his friend , 'and I love your humour of all things . 
They interchanged one brief and hasty glance as Hugh went out , averted their eyes directly , and so separated . 
Hugh closed the double doors behind him , carefully and without noise and Mr Chester remained in his easy chair , with his gaze intently fixed upon the fire . 
Chapter The thoughts of worldly men are for ever regulated by a moral law of gravitation , which , like the physical one , holds them down to earth . 
The bright glory of day , and the silent wonders of a starlit night , appeal to their minds in vain . 
There are no signs in the sun , or in the moon , or in the stars , for their reading . 
The man who lives but in the breath of princes , has nothing his sight but stars for courtiers' breasts . 
So do the shadows of our own desires stand between us and our better angels , and thus their brightness is eclipsed . 
Everything was fresh and gay , as though the world were but that morning made , when Mr Chester rode at a tranquil pace along the Forest road . 
'Oh , you're here , are you , sir ? said John , rather surprised by the quickness with which he appeared . 
'Take this here valuable animal into the stable , and have more than particular care of him if you want to keep your place . 
A mortal lazy fellow , sir he needs a deal of looking after . 
'But you have a son , returned Mr Chester , giving his bridle to Hugh as he dismounted , and acknowledging his salute by a careless motion of his hand towards his hat . 
He an't fit for indoors , added Mr Willet , with the confidential air of a man who felt his own superior nature . 
This last remark bore reference to his vaulting on horseback , as upon Mr Chester's first visit , and quickly disappearing by the stable gate . 
There never was such a chap for flinging himself about and never hurting his bones . 
knocked into him , he'd never be able to do it any more . 
But we was a talking , sir , about my son . 
'True , Willet , true , said his visitor , turning again towards the landlord with his accustomed serenity of face . 
'My good friend , what about him ? It has been reported that Mr Willet , previously to making answer , winked . 
We want no love making here , sir , unbeknown to parents . 
My son , sir , is upon his patrole . 
'I thought I saw him looking through the corner window but this moment , said Mr Chester , who naturally thought that being on patrole , implied walking about somewhere . 
'No doubt you did , sir , returned John . 
'He is upon his patrole of honour , sir , not to leave the premises . 
And what's more , sir , he won't be off his patrole for a pretty long time to come , I can tell you that . 
He had not gone far , or looked about him long , when he descried coming towards him , a female figure . 
A glimpse of the form and dress as she crossed a little wooden bridge which lay between them , satisfied him that he had found her whom he desired to see . 
He threw himself in her way , and a very few paces brought them close together . 
He raised his hat from his head , and yielding the path , suffered her to pass him . 
'Something told me , he said , LOOKING a compliment to her beauty , 'that it could be no other . 
Miss Haredale , I bear a name which is not unknown to you which it is a pride , and yet a pain to me to know , sounds pleasantly in your ears . 
I am a man advanced in life , as you see . 
I am the father of him whom you honour and distinguish above all other men . 
'A little more apart among these trees . 
It is an old man's hand , Miss Haredale an honest one , believe me . 
She put hers in it as he said these words , and suffered him to lead her to a neighbouring seat . 
'You alarm me , sir , she said in a low voice . 
'You are not the bearer of any ill news , I hope ? 'Of none that you anticipate , he answered , sitting down beside her . 
'Edward is well quite well . 
It is of him I wish to speak , certainly but I have no misfortune to communicate . 
She bowed her head again , and made as though she would have begged him to proceed but said nothing . 
'I am sensible that I speak to you at a disadvantage , dear Miss Haredale . 
Believe me that I am not so forgetful of the feelings of my younger days as not to know that you are little disposed to view me with favour . 
You do a great wrong to Edward's nature if you believe him capable of any mean or base proceeding . 
'Pardon me , my sweet young lady , but your uncle 'Nor is it my uncle's nature either , she replied , with a heightened colour in her cheek . 
'It is not his nature to stab in the dark , nor is it mine to love such deeds . 
'And it is , said Mr Chester , looking upward , and apostrophising the air 'it is this frank , ingenuous , noble nature , Ned , that you can wound so lightly . 
Shame shame upon you , boy ! She turned towards him quickly , and with a scornful look and flashing eyes . 
There were tears in Mr Chester's eyes , but he dashed them hurriedly away , as though unwilling that his weakness should be known , and regarded her with mingled admiration and compassion . 
'I never until now , he said , 'believed , that the frivolous actions of a young man could move me like these of my own son . 
I never knew till now , the worth of a woman's heart , which boys so lightly win , and lightly fling away . 
She neither spoke nor moved , but gazed upon him as though she would look into his heart . 
'I throw off , said Mr Chester , 'the restraint which natural affection would impose on some men , and reject all bonds but those of truth and duty . 
Miss Haredale , you are deceived you are deceived by your unworthy lover , and my unworthy son . 
Still she looked at him steadily , and still said not one word . 
'I have ever opposed his professions of love for you you will do me the justice , dear Miss Haredale , to remember that . 
Your uncle and myself were enemies in early life , and if I had sought retaliation , I might have found it here . 
But as we grow older , we grow wiser bitter , I would fain hope and from the first , I have opposed him in this attempt . 
I foresaw the end , and would have spared you , if I could . 
'Speak plainly , sir , she faltered . 
'You deceive me , or are deceived yourself . 
I do not believe you I cannot I should not . 
'First , said Mr Chester , soothingly , 'for there may be in your mind some latent angry feeling to which I would not appeal , pray take this letter . 
for my son's not answering some other note of yours . 
God forbid , Miss Haredale , said the good gentleman , with great emotion , 'that there should be in your gentle breast one causeless ground of quarrel with him . 
You should know , and you will see , that he was in no fault here . 
She turned away and burst into tears . 
I have it on his own showing in his own hand . 
of being in time more worthy of your regard and so forth . 
He's very tender of my peace of mind . 
'The truth of what I tell you , dear young lady , he replied , 'you will test by the receipt or non receipt of the letter of which I speak . 
Haredale , my dear fellow , I am delighted to see you , although we meet under singular circumstances , and upon a melancholy occasion . 
I hope you are very well . 
They stood looking at each other , and at her retreating figure , and for a long time neither of them spoke . 
'What does this mean ? Explain it , said Mr Haredale at length . 
, that I had the head and heart of an evil spirit in all matters of deception . 
I thought at the time I really did think you flattered me . 
But now I begin to wonder at your discernment , and vanity apart , do honestly believe you spoke the truth . 
Did you ever counterfeit extreme ingenuousness and honest indignation ? My dear fellow , you have no conception , if you never did , how faint the effort makes one . 
Mr Haredale surveyed him with a look of cold contempt . 
'You may evade an explanation , I know , he said , folding his arms . 
'But I must have it . 
Not at all , my good fellow . 
You shall not wait a moment , returned his friend , as he lazily crossed his legs . 
'The simplest thing in the world . 
It lies in a nutshell . 
Ned has written her a letter a boyish , honest , sentimental composition , which remains as yet in his desk , because he hasn't had the heart to send it . 
I have taken a liberty , for which my parental affection and anxiety are a sufficient excuse , and possessed myself of the contents . 
, with a little colouring and description adapted to our purpose . 
You may be quite easy . 
If she receives Ned's letter by to morrow noon , you may date their parting from to morrow night . 
No thanks , I beg you owe me none . 
I have acted for myself and if I have forwarded our compact with all the ardour even you could have desired , I have done so selfishly , indeed . 
'I curse the compact , as you call it , with my whole heart and soul , returned the other . 
'It was made in an evil hour . 
'You are very warm , said Mr Chester with a languid smile . 
I am maddened by your coldness . 
Our bond is cancelled now , and we may part . 
Bark on , ill favoured , ill conditioned cur fortune has ever been with me I like to hear you . 
The spot where they had met , was in an avenue of trees . 
Mr Haredale not passing out on either hand , had walked straight on . 
'It MAY come to that one day , but not yet , said Mr Chester , waving his hand , as though they were the best of friends , and turning away . 
Life is pleasant enough to me dull and full of heaviness to you . 
No. To cross swords with such a man to indulge his humour unless upon extremity would be weak indeed . 
For all that , he drew his sword as he walked along , and in an absent humour ran his eye from hilt to point full twenty times . 
Chapter A homely proverb recognises the existence of a troublesome class of persons who , having an inch conceded them , will take an ell . 
The more young Joe submitted , the more absolute old John became . 
The ell soon faded into nothing . 
But the longest day has an end , and at length Mr Chester came downstairs to mount his horse , which was ready at the door . 
'None of that , sir , said John , 'none of that , sir . 
Who wants to get away ? 'Who wants to get away ! cried John , shaking him . 
'Why you do , sir , you do . 
Joe made no effort to reply . 
It was the crowning circumstance of his degradation . 
He extricated himself from his father's grasp , darted an angry look at the departing guest , and returned into the house . 
Mr Willet joining them soon afterwards , received the compliments of the company with great composure , and lighting his pipe , sat down among them . 
'We'll see , gentlemen , said John , after a long pause , 'who's the master of this house , and who isn't . 
We'll see whether boys are to govern men , or men are to govern boys . 
'And quite right too , assented Solomon Daisy with some approving nods 'quite right , Johnny . 
Well said , Mr Willet . 
You let me alone , sir . 
I can get on without you , I hope . 
Don't you tackle me , sir , if you please . 
'Don't take it ill , Johnny I didn't mean any harm , pleaded the little man . 
'Very good , sir , said John , more than usually obstinate after his late success . 
I can stand pretty firm of myself , sir , I believe , without being shored up by you . 
And having given utterance to this retort , Mr Willet fixed his eyes upon the boiler , and fell into a kind of tobacco trance . 
'I'd recommend you , in return , said Joe , looking up with a flushed face , 'not to talk to me . 
'Hold your tongue , sir , cried Mr Willet , suddenly rousing himself , and turning round . 
Therefore I say , Mr Cobb , don't talk to me . 
'I have done it now , said Joe , as he sat down upon his bedstead and wiped his heated face . 
'I knew it would come at last . 
The Maypole and I must part company . 
It came on darker and darker . 
Joe , with his stick and bundle on his shoulder , quickly stood on the firm earth , and looked up at the old Maypole , it might be for the last time . 
He didn't apostrophise it , for he was no great scholar . 
He didn't curse it , for he had little ill will to give to anything on earth . 
'What noisy fellow is that in the next room ? said Joe , when he had disposed of his breakfast , and had washed and brushed himself . 
'A recruiting serjeant , replied the Lion . 
Here was the very thing he had been dreaming of , all the way along . 
'And I wish , said the Lion , 'he was anywhere else but here . 
The party make noise enough , but don't call for much . 
There's great cry there , Mr Willet , but very little wool . 
Your father wouldn't like 'em , I know . 
Perhaps not much under any circumstances . 
Perhaps if he could have known what was passing at that moment in Joe's mind , he would have liked them still less . 
'Is he recruiting for a for a fine regiment ? said Joe , glancing at a little round mirror that hung in the bar . 
'I believe he is , replied the host . 
'It's much the same thing , whatever regiment he's recruiting for . 
I'm told there an't a deal of difference between a fine man and another one , when they're shot through and through . 
'They're not all shot , said Joe . 
'No , the Lion answered , 'not all . 
Those that are supposing it's done easy are the best off in my opinion . 
'Ah ! retorted Joe , 'but you don't care for glory . 
'For what ? said the Lion . 
'No , returned the Lion , with supreme indifference . 
You're right in that , Mr Willet . 
When Glory comes here , and calls for anything to drink and changes a guinea to pay for it , I'll give it him for nothing . 
It's my belief , sir , that the Glory's arms wouldn't do a very strong business . 
These remarks were not at all comforting . 
Joe walked out , stopped at the door of the next room , and listened . 
The serjeant was describing a military life . 
It was all drinking , he said , except that there were frequent intervals of eating and love making . 
A battle was the finest thing in the world when your side won it and Englishmen always did that . 
'Supposing you should be killed , sir ? said a timid voice in one corner . 
Damme , gentlemen , we must all die some time , or another , eh ? The voice coughed , and said no more . 
Joe walked into the room . 
A group of half a dozen fellows had gathered together in the taproom , and were listening with greedy ears . 
One of them , a carter in a smockfrock , seemed wavering and disposed to enlist . 
, backed the serjeant's arguments , and grinned among themselves . 
'I say nothing , boys , said the serjeant , who sat a little apart , drinking his liquor . 
'For lads of spirit' here he cast an eye on Joe 'this is the time . 
I don't want to inveigle you . 
The king's not come to that , I hope . 
Brisk young blood is what we want not milk and water . 
We won't take five men out of six . 
We want top sawyers , we do . 
'You're a gentleman , by G ! was his first remark , as he slapped him on the back . 
'You're a gentleman in disguise . 
So am I. Let's swear a friendship . 
Joe didn't exactly do that , but he shook hands with him , and thanked him for his good opinion . 
'You want to serve , said his new friend . 
You were made for it . 
You're one of us by nature . 
What'll you take to drink ? 'Nothing just now , replied Joe , smiling faintly . 
'I haven't quite made up my mind . 
'A mettlesome fellow like you , and not made up his mind ! cried the serjeant . 
'Here let me give the bell a pull , and you'll make up your mind in half a minute , I know . 
'You're right so far' answered Joe , 'for if you pull the bell here , where I'm known , there'll be an end of my soldiering inclinations in no time . 
'Thank you , said Joe , 'I didn't ask you for want of a compliment , but thank you all the same . 
own father were to say he did , he would run the old gentleman through the body cheerfully , and consider it a meritorious action . 
Joe expressed his obligations , and continued , 'You can trust me then , and credit what I say . 
I believe I shall enlist in your regiment to night . 
The reason I don't do so now is , because I don't want until to night , to do what I can't recall . 
'And if I do come which it's a million to one , I shall when will you take me out of London ? demanded Joe . 
'To morrow morning , at half after eight o'clock , replied the serjeant . 
'You'll go abroad a country where it's all sunshine and plunder the finest climate in the world . 
'To go abroad , said Joe , shaking hands with him , 'is the very thing I want . 
'You're the kind of lad for us , cried the serjeant , holding Joe's hand in his , in the excess of his admiration . 
'You're the boy to push your fortune . 
'Tush , man ! said Joe , 'I'm not so young as that . 
Needs must when the devil drives and the devil that drives me is an empty pocket and an unhappy home . 
For the present , good bye . 
'For king and country ! cried the serjeant , flourishing his cap . 
'For bread and meat ! cried Joe , snapping his fingers . 
he had but a penny left . 
He went out by Islington and so on to Highgate , and sat on many stones and gates , but there were no voices in the bells to bid him turn . 
Since the time of noble Whittington , fair flower of merchants , bells have come to have less sympathy with humankind . 
They only ring for money and on state occasions . 
of that celebrated purse of Fortunatus , which , whatever were its favoured owner's necessities , had one unvarying amount in it . 
In these real times , when all the Fairies are dead and buried , there are still a great many purses which possess that quality . 
Evening drew on at last . 
It was Dolly's to whom else could it belong ? no dress but hers had such a flow as that . 
He plucked up his spirits , and followed it into the workshop of the Golden Key . 
His darkening the door caused her to look round . 
Oh that face ! 'If it hadn't been for that , thought Joe , 'I should never have walked into poor Tom Cobb . 
She's twenty times handsomer than ever . 
She might marry a Lord ! He didn't say this . 
He only thought it perhaps looked it also . 
Dolly was glad to see him , and was SO sorry her father and mother were away from home . 
Joe begged she wouldn't mention it on any account . 
, it was so like standing before some homely altar being married , that it was the most embarrassing state of things in the world . 
'I have come , said Joe , 'to say good bye to say good bye for I don't know how many years perhaps for ever . 
Now this was exactly what he should not have said . 
Dolly released her hand and said 'Indeed ! She remarked in the same breath that it was a fine night , and in short , betrayed no more emotion than the forge itself . 
'I couldn't go , said Joe , 'without coming to see you . 
I hadn't the heart to . 
Dolly was more sorry than she could tell , that he should have taken so much trouble . 
It was such a long way , and he must have such a deal to do . 
And how WAS Mr Willet that dear old gentleman 'Is this all you say ! cried Joe . 
Dolly in the meanwhile , turned to the corners of her apron , and measured the sides , and smoothed out the wrinkles , and was as silent as he . 
At last after a long pause , Joe said good bye . 
'Good bye' said Dolly with as pleasant a smile as if he were going into the next street , and were coming back to supper 'good bye . 
'Come , said Joe , putting out both hands , 'Dolly , dear Dolly , don't let us part like this . 
I love you dearly , with all my heart and soul with as much truth and earnestness as ever man loved woman in this world , I do believe . 
Say something kind to me . 
Dolly , dearest , have you nothing to say to me ? No. Nothing . 
Dolly was a coquette by nature , and a spoilt child . 
She had no notion of being carried by storm in this way . 
Joe had no business to be going abroad . 
He had no right to be able to do it . 
If he was in adamantine chains , he couldn't . 
'I have said good bye , said Dolly , 'twice . 
Take your arm away directly , Mr Joseph , or I'll call Miggs . 
'I'll not reproach you , answered Joe , 'it's my fault , no doubt . 
I have thought sometimes that you didn't quite despise me , but I was a fool to think so . 
Every one must , who has seen the life I have led you most of all . 
God bless you ! He was gone , actually gone . 
'If they're a dream , said Sim , 'let sculptures have such wisions , and chisel 'em out when they wake . 
Sleep has no such limbs as them . 
Tremble , Willet , and despair . 
Chapter Misfortunes , saith the adage , never come singly . 
It was evening , and just eight o'clock , when he and his father , having wine and dessert set before them , were left to themselves for the first time that day . 
They had dined together , but a third person had been present during the meal , and until they met at table they had not seen each other since the previous night . 
Edward was reserved and silent . 
'My dear Edward , said Mr Chester at length , with a most engaging laugh , 'do not extend your drowsy influence to the decanter . 
Suffer THAT to circulate , let your spirits be never so stagnant . 
Edward begged his pardon , passed it , and relapsed into his former state . 
'You do wrong not to fill your glass , said Mr Chester , holding up his own before the light . 
'Wine in moderation not in excess , for that makes men ugly has a thousand pleasant influences . 
It brightens the eye , improves the voice , imparts a new vivacity to one's thoughts and conversation you should try it , Ned . 
Have some regard for delicacy . 
'Now DO , Ned , DO not , said Mr Chester , raising his delicate hand imploringly , 'talk in that monstrous manner . 
About to speak from your heart . 
They are really not agreeable in society . 
You quite surprise me , Ned . 
'Well ! there are no such things to wound , or heal , or have regard for . 
I know your creed , sir , and will say no more , returned his son . 
'There again , said Mr Chester , sipping his wine , 'you are wrong . 
I distinctly say there are such things . 
The hearts of animals of bullocks , sheep , and so forth are cooked and devoured , as I am told , by the lower classes , with a vast deal of relish . 
'No doubt , sir , returned his son , seeing that he paused for him to speak . 
'There's Haredale's niece , your late flame , said Mr Chester , as a careless illustration of his meaning . 
'No doubt in your mind she was all heart once . 
Now she has none at all . 
Yet she is the same person , Ned , exactly . 
'She is a changed person , sir , cried Edward , reddening 'and changed by vile means , I believe . 
'You have had a cool dismissal , have you ? said his father . 
'Poor Ned ! I told you last night what would happen . 
May I ask you for the nutcrackers ? 'She has been tampered with , and most treacherously deceived , cried Edward , rising from his seat . 
'I never will believe that the knowledge of my real position , given her by myself , has worked this change . 
I know she is beset and tortured . 
She supposed you to be rich , or at least quite rich enough and found you poor . 
The lady being poor and you poor also , there is an end of the matter . 
You cannot enter upon these considerations , and have no manner of business with the ceremony . 
I drink her health in this glass , and respect and honour her for her extreme good sense . 
It is a lesson to you . 
'On men whom the world and its hypocrisy have spoiled , said Edward warmly , 'Heaven keep me from its knowledge . 
'Come , sir , returned his father , raising himself a little on the sofa , and looking straight towards him 'we have had enough of this . 
'I shall never repent the preservation of my self respect , sir , said Edward . 
The circumstance occurs to me with a singular clearness of recollection this evening . 
I remember eating muffins at the time , with marmalade . 
and died early it was a happy release on all accounts he degraded the family very much . 
It is a sad circumstance , Edward , when a father finds it necessary to resort to such strong measures . 
Dear father , he added , more earnestly though in a gentler tone , 'I have reflected many times on what occurred between us when we first discussed this subject . 
Let there be a confidence between us not in terms , but truth . 
Hear what I have to say . 
'As I anticipate what it is , and cannot fail to do so , Edward , returned his father coldly , 'I decline . 
I am sure it would put me out of temper , which is a state of mind I can't endure . 
I am very sorry , but there's really no alternative . 
'The curse may pass your lips , said Edward , 'but it will be but empty breath . 
Beware , sir , what you do . 
It is quite impossible we can continue to go on , upon such terms as these . 
If you will do me the favour to ring the bell , the servant will show you to the door . 
Return to this roof no more , I beg you . 
Go , sir , since you have no moral sense remaining and go to the Devil , at my express desire . 
Edward left the room without another word or look , and turned his back upon the house for ever . 
The father's face was slightly flushed and heated , but his manner was quite unchanged , as he rang the bell again , and addressed the servant on his entrance . 
You'll tell him so , and shut the door . 
So , it soon got whispered about , that Mr Chester was very unfortunate in his son , who had occasioned him great grief and sorrow . 
And the world went on turning round , as usual , for five years , concerning which this Narrative is silent . 
A bitter storm of sleet , sharp , dense , and icy cold , swept the wet streets , and rattled on the trembling windows . 
It was not a time for those who could by any means get light and warmth , to brave the fury of the weather . 
Cheerily , though there were none abroad to see it , shone the Maypole light that evening . 
It was not enough that one red curtain shut the wild night out , and shed its cheerful influence on the room . 
The old oak wainscoting , the beams , the chairs , the seats , reflected it in a deep , dull glimmer . 
There were fires and red curtains in the very eyes of the drinkers , in their buttons , in their liquor , in the pipes they smoked . 
, and from time to time putting his glass to his lips , or knocking the ashes out of his pipe , and filling it anew . 
It was now half past ten . 
Mr Cobb and long Phil Parkes were his companions , as of old , and for two mortal hours and a half , none of the company had pronounced one word . 
, neither of his companions was aware of the circumstance , until he met with one of these impediments and was obliged to try again . 
'Johnny's dropped off , said Mr Parkes in a whisper . 
'Fast as a top , said Mr Cobb . 
'He sleeps uncommon hard , said Mr Cobb . 
Mr Cobb likewise turned his eyes in the same direction , and surveyed the placard as if that were the first time he had ever beheld it . 
Mr Cobb and Mr Parkes looked mysteriously at this composition , at each other , and at old John . 
Therefore , even while he slept , no one ventured to refer to it in his presence and for such sufficient reasons , these his chosen friends were silent now . 
Mr Willet had got by this time into such a complication of knots , that it was perfectly clear he must wake or die . 
He chose the former alternative , and opened his eyes . 
'If he don't come in five minutes , said John , 'I shall have supper without him . 
The antecedent of this pronoun had been mentioned for the last time at eight o'clock . 
Messrs Parkes and Cobb being used to this style of conversation , replied without difficulty that to be sure Solomon was very late , and they wondered what had happened to detain him . 
'He an't blown away , I suppose , said Parkes . 
'It's enough to carry a man of his figure off his legs , and easy too . 
Do you hear it ? It blows great guns , indeed . 
There'll be many a crash in the Forest to night , I reckon , and many a broken branch upon the ground to morrow . 
'It won't break anything in the Maypole , I take it , sir , returned old John . 
I give it leave what's that ? 'The wind , cried Parkes . 
'It's howling like a Christian , and has been all night long . 
'Did you ever , sir , asked John , after a minute's contemplation , 'hear the wind say Maypole ? 'Why , what man ever did ? said Parkes . 
'Nor ahoy , perhaps ? added John . 
They looked at each other , turned pale , and held their breath . 
It was in this emergency that Mr Willet displayed something of that strength of mind and plenitude of mental resource , which rendered him the admiration of all his friends and neighbours . 
If it an't , I'm sorry for 'em . 
If either of you two gentlemen likes to go out and see what's the matter , you can . 
I'm not curious , myself . 
A more complete picture of terror than the little man presented , it would be difficult to imagine . 
'Tell us what's the matter , sir , said John , 'or I'll kill you . 
Tell us what's the matter , sir , or in another second I'll have your head under the biler . 
How dare you look like that ? Is anybody a following of you ? What do you mean ? Say something , or I'll be the death of you , I will . 
, that the two bystanders , recovering in some degree , plucked him off his victim by main force , and placed the little clerk of Chigwell in a chair . 
'Oh , Johnny , said Solomon , shaking him by the hand . 
Parkes , who was nearest to the door , started and looked over his shoulder . 
'When I left here to night , said Solomon Daisy , 'I little thought what day of the month it was . 
I have never gone alone into the church after dark on this day , for seven and twenty years . 
How the wind roars ! Nobody spoke . 
All eyes were fastened on Solomon . 
'I might have known , he said , 'what night it was , by the foul weather . 
There's no such night in the whole year round as this is , always . 
I never sleep quietly in my bed on the nineteenth of March . 
'Go on , said Tom Cobb , in a low voice . 
I got there at last , opened the church door , and went in . 
I had not met a soul all the way , and you may judge whether it was dull or not . 
Neither of you would bear me company . 
If you could have known what was to come , you'd have been in the right . 
'As I took up my lantern again to leave the church , it came upon me all at once that this was the nineteenth of March . 
saw anything , he would have the goodness to mention it . 
Mr Parkes with great submission pledged himself to do so , if again required , and John Willet turning to Solomon desired him to proceed . 
I heard the wind whistle through the arches of the church . 
I heard the steeple strain and creak . 
I heard the rain as it came driving against the walls . 
I felt the bells shake . 
I saw the ropes sway to and fro . 
And I heard that voice . 
'What did it say ? asked Tom Cobb . 
'I don't know what I don't know that it spoke . 
'I don't see much in that , said John , drawing a long breath , and looking round him like a man who felt relieved . 
'Perhaps not , returned his friend , 'but that's not all . 
'What more do you mean to say , sir , is to come ? asked John , pausing in the act of wiping his face upon his apron . 
'What are you a going to tell us of next ? 'What I saw . 
'Saw ! echoed all three , bending forward . 
It was bare headed to the storm . 
It turned its face without stopping , and fixed its eyes on mine . 
It was a ghost a spirit . 
'Whose ? they all three cried together . 
, his answer was lost on all but old John Willet , who happened to be seated close beside him . 
'Who ! cried Parkes and Tom Cobb , looking eagerly by turns at Solomon Daisy and at Mr Willet . 
'Who was it ? 'Gentlemen , said Mr Willet after a long pause , 'you needn't ask . 
The likeness of a murdered man . 
This is the nineteenth of March . 
'If you'll take my advice , said John , 'we had better , one and all , keep this a secret . 
Such tales would not be liked at the Warren . 
Let us keep it to ourselves for the present time at all events , or we may get into trouble , and Solomon may lose his place . 
Whether it was really as he says , or whether it wasn't , is no matter . 
Right or wrong , nobody would believe him . 
more astonished than at first . 
And as most men like to have a secret to tell which may exalt their own importance , they arrived at this conclusion with perfect unanimity . 
As it was by this time growing late , and was long past their usual hour of separating , the cronies parted for the night . 
Solomon Daisy , with a fresh candle in his lantern , repaired homewards under the escort of long Phil Parkes and Mr Cobb , who were rather more nervous than himself . 
Chapter Before old John had looked at the boiler quite twenty minutes , he got his ideas into a focus , and brought them to bear upon Solomon Daisy's story . 
The more he thought of it , the more impressed he became with a sense of his own wisdom , and a desire that Mr Haredale should be impressed with it likewise . 
Halloa there ! Hugh Hugh . 
'What ! Haven't you sleep enough , growler , that you're not to be knocked up for once ? said John . 
'No , replied the voice , as the speaker yawned and shook himself . 
Wrap yourself up in something or another , and come here , for you must go as far as the Warren with me . 
And look sharp about it . 
'You don't take a man out of doors at near midnight in such weather , without putting some heart into him , do you , master ? said Hugh . 
'Yes I do , sir , returned Mr Willet . 
into him when he has brought me safe home again , and his standing steady on his legs an't of so much consequence . 
So hold that light up , if you please , and go on a step or two before , to show the way . 
Hugh obeyed with a very indifferent grace , and a longing glance at the bottles . 
At length they stood upon the broad gravel walk before the Warren house . 
The building was profoundly dark , and none were moving near it save themselves . 
'Why , where else should he sit ? asked Hugh , holding the lantern to his breast , to keep the candle from the wind , while he trimmed it with his fingers . 
'It's snug enough , an't it ? 'Snug ! said John indignantly . 
'You have a comfortable idea of snugness , you have , sir . 
Do you know what was done in that room , you ruffian ? 'Why , what is it the worse for that ! cried Hugh , looking into John's fat face . 
One man's no such matter as that comes to . 
'Begging pardon , sir , said John , 'I knew you sat up late , and made bold to come round , having a word to say to you . 
'Willet is it not ? 'Of the Maypole at your service , sir . 
Mr Haredale closed the window , and withdrew . 
He presently appeared at a door in the bottom of the turret , and coming across the garden walk , unlocked the gate and let them in . 
'You are a late visitor , Willet . 
What is the matter ? 'Nothing to speak of , sir , said John 'an idle tale , I thought you ought to know of nothing more . 
'Let your man go forward with the lantern , and give me your hand . 
The stairs are crooked and narrow . 
Gently with your light , friend . 
You swing it like a censer . 
Hugh , who had already reached the turret , held it more steadily , and ascended first , turning round from time to time to shed his light downward on the steps . 
Mr Haredale following next , eyed his lowering face with no great favour and Hugh , looking down on him , returned his glances with interest , as they climbed the winding stairs . 
It terminated in a little ante room adjoining that from which they had seen the light . 
'Come in , he said , beckoning to old John , who remained bowing at the door . 
'Not you , friend , he added hastily to Hugh , who entered also . 
'Don't be too sure of that , said Mr Haredale , looking towards him as he spoke . 
He has an evil eye . 
'There's no imagination in his eye , returned Mr Willet , glancing over his shoulder at the organ in question , 'certainly . 
'There is no good there , be assured , said Mr Haredale . 
'Wait in that little room , friend , and close the door between us . 
The story moved his auditor much more than he had expected . 
'You did quite right , he said , at the end of a long conversation , 'to bid them keep this story secret . 
It is a foolish fancy on the part of this weak brained man , bred in his fears and superstition . 
You were most prudent , and have laid me under a great obligation . 
I thank you very much . 
This , however , was his manner and it was so embarrassing to John that he sat quite passive for a long time , not knowing what to do . 
Mr Haredale stared at him for a moment as though he had quite forgotten his being present , then shook hands with him , and opened the door . 
'Stay , said Mr Haredale . 
'Will this man drink ? 'Drink ! He'd drink the Thames up , if it was strong enough , sir , replied John Willet . 
'He'll have something when he gets home . 
He's better without it , now , sir . 
Half the distance is done , said Hugh . 
'What a hard master you are ! I shall go home the better for one glassful , halfway . 
'What do you mean by splashing your drink about a gentleman's house , sir ? said John . 
'I'm drinking a toast , Hugh rejoined , holding the glass above his head , and fixing his eyes on Mr Haredale's face 'a toast to this house and its master . 
With that he muttered something to himself , and drank the rest , and setting down the glass , preceded them without another word . 
, that he was very pale , and that his face had changed so much and grown so haggard since their entrance , that he almost seemed another man . 
'Nay , brother , said the same person , 'you're but a churlish Englishman , if Englishman you be which I should much doubt but for your tongue . 
Your companion , I am sure , will answer me more civilly . 
How say you , friend ? 'I say it IS the London road , sir , answered John . 
'And I wish , he added in a subdued voice , as he turned to Hugh , 'that you was in any other road , you vagabond . 
'Why , from here , sir , answered John , persuasively , 'it's thirteen very easy mile . 
'There are no inns , rejoined Mr Willet , with a strong emphasis on the plural number 'but there's a Inn one Inn the Maypole Inn . 
You won't see the like of that Inn often . 
'You keep it , perhaps ? said the horseman , smiling . 
'I do , sir , replied John , greatly wondering how he had found this out . 
A great cause , my lord , a mighty cause , depends on you . 
You are its leader and its champion , its advanced guard and its van . 
It is the cause of our altars and our homes , our country and our faith . 
Let ME sleep on a chair the carpet anywhere . 
No one will repine if I take cold or fever . 
Let John Grueby pass the night beneath the open sky no one will repine for HIM . 
My lord , said the speaker , rising in his stirrups , 'it is a glorious cause , and must not be forgotten . 
My lord , it is a mighty cause , and must not be endangered . 
My lord , it is a holy cause , and must not be deserted . 
'It IS a holy cause , exclaimed his lordship , lifting up his hat with great solemnity . 
'John Grueby , said the long winded gentleman , in a tone of mild reproof , 'his lordship said Amen . 
'I heard my lord , sir , said the man , sitting like a statue on his horse . 
'And do not YOU say Amen , likewise ? To which John Grueby made no reply at all , but sat looking straight before him . 
'You surprise me , Grueby , said the gentleman . 
'Go on before , landlord , and show the way , said Lord George Gordon 'we will follow at a footpace . 
'If you'll give me leave , my lord , said John Grueby , in a low voice , 'I'll change my proper place , and ride before you . 
The looks of the landlord's friend are not over honest , and it may be as well to be cautious with him . 
'John Grueby is quite right , interposed Mr Gashford , falling back hastily . 
'My lord , a life so precious as yours must not be put in peril . 
Go forward , John , by all means . 
If you have any reason to suspect the fellow , blow his brains out . 
John made no answer , but looking straight before him , as his custom seemed to be when the secretary spoke , bade Hugh push on , and followed close behind him . 
Then came his lordship , with Mr Willet at his bridle rein and , last of all , his lordship's secretary for that , it seemed , was Gashford's office . 
'If I led you wrong now , said Hugh , tauntingly , 'you'd ha ha ha ! you'd shoot me through the head , I suppose . 
John Grueby took no more notice of this remark than if he had been deaf and Hugh dumb but kept riding on quite comfortably , with his eyes fixed on the horizon . 
'Did you ever try a fall with a man when you were young , master ? said Hugh . 
'Can you make any play at single stick ? John Grueby looked at him sideways with the same contented air , but deigned not a word in answer . 
Like this ? said Hugh , giving his cudgel one of those skilful flourishes , in which the rustic of that time delighted . 
'Whoop ! Or that , returned John Grueby , beating down his guard with his whip , and striking him on the head with its butt end . 
'Yes , I played a little once . 
You wear your hair too long I should have cracked your crown if it had been a little shorter . 
Before the lapse of many minutes the party halted at the Maypole door . 
Lord George and his secretary quickly dismounting , gave their horses to their servant , who , under the guidance of Hugh , repaired to the stables . 
He was attired , under his greatcoat , in a full suit of black , quite free from any ornament , and of the most precise and sober cut . 
Gashford , the secretary , was taller , angularly made , high shouldered , bony , and ungraceful . 
His dress , in imitation of his superior , was demure and staid in the extreme his manner , formal and constrained . 
His manner was smooth and humble , but very sly and slinking . 
He wore the aspect of a man who was always lying in wait for something that WOULDN'T come to pass but he looked patient very patient and fawned like a spaniel dog . 
With this address , John ushered them upstairs into the state apartment , which , like many other things of state , was cold and comfortless . 
'So ends , my lord , said Gashford , filling his glass with great complacency , 'the blessed work of a most blessed day . 
'And of a blessed yesterday , said his lordship , raising his head . 
'Ah ! and here the secretary clasped his hands 'a blessed yesterday indeed ! The Protestants of Suffolk are godly men and true . 
Though others of our countrymen have lost their way in darkness , even as we , my lord , did lose our road to night , theirs is the light and glory . 
'Did I move them , Gashford ? said Lord George . 
'By devils ! my lord ! By angels . 
'Of course by angels eh Gashford ? 'You do not doubt it , my lord ? said the secretary . 
'No No , returned his lord . 
It is a great power ! he cried with sparkling eyes . 
'But dear Gashford did I really say all that ? 'And how much more ! cried the secretary , looking upwards . 
'Ah ! how much more ! 'And I told them what you say , about the one hundred and forty thousand men in Scotland , did I ! he asked with evident delight . 
She's bold , Gashford ? 'The true religion is , my lord . 
'And that's ours , he rejoined , moving uneasily in his seat , and biting his nails as though he would pare them to the quick . 
'There can be no doubt of ours being the true one . 
No No. I I didn't mean it , replied the other , shaking him by the hand , rising from his seat , and pacing restlessly about the room . 
'It's a proud thing to lead the people , Gashford , he added as he made a sudden halt . 
'By force of reason too , returned the pliant secretary . 
'Ay , to be sure . 
'Not one , repeated Gashford . 
'Not one , repeated Gashford again taking the lion's share of the mulled wine between whiles . 
I will be worthy of the motto on my coat of arms , Called and chosen and faithful . 
'Called , said the secretary , 'by Heaven . 
For some minutes he walked rapidly up and down the room , then stopping suddenly , exclaimed , 'Gashford YOU moved them yesterday too . 
Oh yes ! You did . 
'I shone with a reflected light , my lord , replied the humble secretary , laying his hand upon his heart . 
'You did well , said his master , 'and are a great and worthy instrument . 
'Too tired , my lord ! But this is his consideration ! Christian from head to foot . 
With which soliloquy , the secretary tilted the jug , and looked very hard into the mulled wine , to see how much remained . 
John Willet and John Grueby appeared together . 
'Now , Mr Gashford sir , said John Grueby in his ear , after what appeared to him a moment of unconsciousness 'my lord's abed . 
Very good , John , was his mild reply . 
'I hope you're not a going to trouble your head to night , or my lord's head neither , with anything more about Bloody Mary , said John . 
'I wish the blessed old creetur had never been born . 
'I said you might go to bed , John , returned the secretary . 
'You didn't hear me , I think . 
When we go out o' doors , such a set of ragamuffins comes a shouting after us , Gordon forever ! that I'm ashamed of myself and don't know where to look . 
I can't make it out , but they're all mixed up somehow or another with that unfort'nate Bloody Mary , and call her name out till they're hoarse . 
, you'll find 'em grow a little bit too strong for you . 
One of these evenings , when the weather gets warmer and Protestants are thirsty , they'll be pulling London down , and I never heard that Bloody Mary went as far as THAT . 
Gashford had vanished long ago , and these remarks had been bestowed on empty air . 
As he approached Lord George's door , he cleared his throat and hummed more vigorously . 
There was a remarkable contrast between this man's occupation at the moment , and the expression of his countenance , which was singularly repulsive and malicious . 
His beetling brow almost obscured his eyes his lip was curled contemptuously his very shoulders seemed to sneer in stealthy whisperings with his great flapped ears . 
'Hush ! he muttered softly , as he peeped in at the chamber door . 
'He seems to be asleep . 
'Why , Gashford ? said Lord George , who was lying broad awake , upon his side , and had been staring at him from his entrance . 
'My my lord , said Gashford , starting and looking round as though in great surprise . 
'I have disturbed you ! 'I have not been sleeping . 
'Not sleeping ! he repeated , with assumed confusion . 
You love me well , I know too well . 
I don't deserve such homage . 
Gashford made no reply , but grasped the hand and pressed it to his lips . 
'How do our numbers stand since last enrolling night ? inquired Lord George . 
'The funds ? 'Not VERY improving but there is some manna in the wilderness , my lord . 
Hem ! On Friday night the widows' mites dropped in . 
Forty scavengers , three and fourpence . 
An aged pew opener of St Martin's parish , sixpence . 
A bell ringer of the established church , sixpence . 
A Protestant infant , newly born , one halfpenny . 
The United Link Boys , three shillings one bad . 
The anti popish prisoners in Newgate , five and fourpence . 
A friend in Bedlam , half a crown . 
Dennis the hangman , one shilling . 
'That Dennis , said his lordship , 'is an earnest man . 
I marked him in the crowd in Welbeck Street , last Friday . 
'A good man , rejoined the secretary , 'a staunch , sincere , and truly zealous man . 
'He should be encouraged , said Lord George . 
'Make a note of Dennis . 
Gashford obeyed , and went on reading from his list The Friends of Reason , half a guinea . 
The Friends of Liberty , half a guinea . 
The Friends of Peace , half a guinea . 
The Friends of Charity , half a guinea . 
The Friends of Mercy , half a guinea . 
The Associated Rememberers of Bloody Mary , half a guinea . 
The United Bulldogs , half a guinea . 
'The United Bulldogs , said Lord George , biting his nails most horribly , 'are a new society , are they not ? 'Formerly the 'Prentice Knights , my lord . 
The indentures of the old members expiring by degrees , they changed their name , it seems , though they still have 'prentices among them , as well as workmen . 
'What is their president's name ? inquired Lord George . 
'President , said Gashford , reading , 'Mr Simon Tappertit . 
'Tappertit is an earnest man , said Lord George , thoughtfully . 
'Eh , Gashford ? 'One of the foremost among them all , my lord . 
He snuffs the battle from afar , like the war horse . 
He throws his hat up in the street as if he were inspired , and makes most stirring speeches from the shoulders of his friends . 
'Make a note of Tappertit , said Lord George Gordon . 
'We may advance him to a place of trust . 
'Miggs , said Lord George . 
'Is that a man ? 'The name is entered on the list as a woman , replied the secretary . 
'Mrs Varden is the elderly lady then , is she ? The secretary nodded , and rubbed the bridge of his nose with the feather of his pen . 
'She is a zealous sister , said Lord George . 
'Her collection goes on prosperously , and is pursued with fervour . 
Has her husband joined ? 'A malignant , returned the secretary , folding up his papers . 
He remains in outer darkness and steadily refuses . 
'Be sure there is no fear of that . 
'Nor , he said with a more restless motion than before , 'of their but they CAN sustain no harm from leaguing for this purpose . 
Right is on our side , though Might may be against us . 
You feel as sure of that as I honestly , you do ? The secretary was beginning with 'You do not doubt , when the other interrupted him , and impatiently rejoined 'Doubt . 
Am I , or am I not ? 'To God , the country , and yourself , cried Gashford . 
I say again , I will be to the block . 
This lord was sincere in his violence and in his wavering . 
A nature prone to false enthusiasm , and the vanity of being a leader , were the worst qualities apparent in his composition . 
Gashford , with many a sly look towards the bed , sat chuckling at his master's folly , until his deep and heavy breathing warned him that he might retire . 
They were addressed on the back 'To every Protestant into whose hands this shall come , and bore within what follows 'Men and Brethren . 
Whoever shall find this letter , will take it as a warning to join , without delay , the friends of Lord George Gordon . 
There are great events at hand and the times are dangerous and troubled . 
Read this carefully , keep it clean , and drop it somewhere else . 
'More seed , more seed , said Gashford as he closed the window . 
Curiosity is , and has been from the creation of the world , a master passion . 
So said , at least , in this month of March , , Lord George Gordon , the Association's president . 
Whether it was the fact or otherwise , few men knew or cared to ascertain . 
'You have slept well ? I hope you have slept well ? If my prayers are heard , you are refreshed indeed . 
'Oh ! returned his superior . 
You're not a Jew then ? 'A Jew ! exclaimed the pious secretary , recoiling . 
'I dreamed that we were Jews , Gashford . 
You and I both of us Jews with long beards . 
'Heaven forbid , my lord ! We might as well be Papists . 
'I suppose we might , returned the other , very quickly . 
'Eh ? You really think so , Gashford ? 'Surely I do , the secretary cried , with looks of great surprise . 
'Yes , that seems reasonable . 
'I hope my lord the secretary began . 
'Hope ! he echoed , interrupting him . 
'Why do you say , you hope ? There's no harm in thinking of such things . 
'Not in dreams , returned the Secretary . 
'In dreams ! No , nor waking either . 
Called , and chosen , and faithful , said Gashford , taking up Lord George's watch which lay upon a chair , and seeming to read the inscription on the seal , abstractedly . 
It was the slightest action possible , not obtruded on his notice , and apparently the result of a moment's absence of mind , not worth remark . 
But as the words were uttered , Lord George , who had been going on impetuously , stopped short , reddened , and was silent . 
I was not idle , even last night . 
I dropped two of the handbills before I went to bed , and both are gone this morning . 
Nobody in the house has mentioned the circumstance of finding them , though I have been downstairs full half an hour . 
It was quite worthy of you . 
You remind me not to be a sluggard , Gashford , when the vineyard is menaced with destruction , and may be trodden down by Papist feet . 
Let the horses be saddled in half an hour . 
'Dreamed he was a Jew , he said thoughtfully , as he closed the bedroom door . 
'He may come to that before he dies . 
Well ! After a time , and provided I lost nothing by it , I don't see why that religion shouldn't suit me as well as any other . 
There are rich men among the Jews shaving is very troublesome yes , it would suit me well enough . 
For the present , though , we must be Christian to the core . 
Our prophetic motto will suit all creeds in their turn , that's a comfort . 
Reflecting on this source of consolation , he reached the sitting room , and rang the bell for breakfast . 
, and as he was no less frugal in his repasts than in his Puritan attire , his share of the meal was soon dispatched . 
At length he came downstairs , wiping his greasy mouth , and having paid John Willet's bill , climbed into his saddle . 
The old ladies too there were a great many old ladies in the streets , and these all knew him . 
Others waved their hands or handkerchiefs , or shook their fans or parasols , or threw up windows and called in haste to those within , to come and see . 
the whole length of Whitechapel , Leadenhall Street , and Cheapside , and into St Paul's Churchyard . 
Gashford , meanwhile , bestirred himself in business matters with which he was still engaged when , shortly after dusk , John Grueby entered and announced a visitor . 
'Let him come in , said Gashford . 
'Here ! come in ! growled John to somebody without 'You're a Protestant , an't you ? 'I should think so , replied a deep , gruff voice . 
'You've the looks of it , said John Grueby . 
'I'd have known you for one , anywhere . 
With which remark he gave the visitor admission , retired , and shut the door . 
Such was the visitor who doffed his three cornered hat in Gashford's presence , and waited , leering , for his notice . 
'Ah ! Dennis ! cried the secretary . 
Of course I'd nothing to do , you know . 
These an't my working hours . 
Ha ha ! I was a taking the air when I see my lord , that's what I was doing . 
I takes the air by night , as the howls does , Muster Gashford . 
And sometimes in the day time , eh ? said the secretary 'when you go out in state , you know . 
Ah to be sure , when I go out in state . 
'Hush ! God bless me , Dennis ! We associate , you know , for strictly peaceable and lawful purposes . 
'I know , bless you , returned the man , thrusting his tongue into his cheek 'I entered a' purpose , didn't I ! 'No doubt , said Gashford , smiling as before . 
'He says you are a very earnest fellow . 
'So I am , returned the hangman . 
'And that you truly hate the Papists . 
'So I do , and he confirmed it with a good round oath . 
I'm a constitutional officer that works for my living , and does my work creditable . 
Do I , or do I not ? 'Unquestionably . 
My work , is sound , Protestant , constitutional , English work . 
Is it , or is it not ? 'No man alive can doubt it . 
George the Third steps in when they number very strong at the end of a sessions , and says , These are too many for Dennis . 
Ha ha ! Well ! That being the law and the practice of England , is the glory of England , an't it , Muster Gashford ? 'Certainly , said the secretary . 
Won't they , Muster Gashford ? 'I have no doubt they will , said the secretary . 
'Well then , look here , said the hangman . 
My lord may well call me an earnest fellow . 
But you must calm yourself you must be peaceful , lawful , mild as any lamb . 
I am sure you will be though . 
'Ay , ay , we shall see , Muster Gashford , we shall see . 
You won't have to complain of me , returned the other , shaking his head . 
'I am sure I shall not , said the secretary in the same mild tone , and with the same emphasis . 
'We shall have , we think , about next month , or May , when this Papist relief bill comes before the house , to convene our whole body for the first time . 
My lord has thoughts of our walking in procession through the streets just as an innocent display of strength and accompanying our petition down to the door of the House of Commons . 
'The sooner the better , said Dennis , with another oath . 
I have no doubt you would be an admirable one . 
'Try me , said the fellow , with an ugly wink . 
You would lead your party into no danger , I am certain . 
'Oh ! said John , looking in 'here's another Protestant . 
'Some other room , John , cried Gashford in his blandest voice . 
'I am engaged just now . 
His uncertainty was very brief , for before Hugh had spoken a word , he said , as his countenance cleared up 'Ay , ay , I recollect . 
It's quite right , John , you needn't wait . 
'Your servant , master , said Hugh , as Grueby disappeared . 
'Yours , friend , returned the secretary in his smoothest manner . 
'Nothing but that , master . 
It fell into good hands , you see . 
'What is this ! said Gashford , turning it over with an air of perfectly natural surprise . 
'Where did you get it from , my good fellow what does it mean ? I don't understand this at all . 
Considering himself silently appealed to by this action , Mr Dennis shook his head thrice , as if to say of Gashford , 'No . 
He don't know anything at all about it . 
'It tells the man that finds it , to come here , don't it ? asked Hugh . 
'I'm no scholar , myself , but I showed it to a friend , and he said it did . 
'It certainly does , said Gashford , opening his eyes to their utmost width 'really this is the most remarkable circumstance I have ever known . 
'Here ! he said , stretching out his hand and taking it back 'never mind the bill , or what it says , or what it don't say . 
You don't know anything about it , master , no more do I , no more does he , glancing at Dennis . 
'None of us know what it means , or where it comes from there's an end of that . 
Now I want to make one against the Catholics , I'm a No Popery man , and ready to be sworn in . 
That's what I've come here for . 
'Put him down on the roll , Muster Gashford , said Dennis approvingly . 
'That's the way to go to work right to the end at once , and no palaver . 
'What's the use of shooting wide of the mark , eh , old boy ! cried Hugh . 
'My sentiments all over ! rejoined the hangman . 
'This is the sort of chap for my division , Muster Gashford . 
Down with him , sir . 
Put him on the roll . 
I'd stand godfather to him , if he was to be christened in a bonfire , made of the ruins of the Bank of England . 
With these and other expressions of confidence of the like flattering kind , Mr Dennis gave him a hearty slap on the back , which Hugh was not slow to return . 
'No Popery , brother ! cried the hangman . 
'No Property , brother ! responded Hugh . 
'Popery , Popery , said the secretary with his usual mildness . 
'It's all the same ! cried Dennis . 
Down with him , Muster Gashford . 
There are popular prejudices , you know , and he mightn't like it . 
Wait till he comes to be more intimate with me . 
Therefore they took their leaves without delay , and came out of the house together . 
'Are you walking , brother ? said Dennis . 
'That's social , said his new friend . 
Then they would part , like strangers . 
The hotter the better , said Hugh , 'I'm prepared for anything . 
'So am I , said his friend , 'and so are many of us and they shook hands upon it with a great oath , and with many terrible imprecations on the Papists . 
As they were thirsty by this time , Dennis proposed that they should repair together to The Boot , where there was good company and strong liquor . 
Hugh yielding a ready assent , they bent their steps that way with no loss of time . 
rose from their seats as by previous concert , and , to the great admiration of the assembled guests , performed an extemporaneous No Popery Dance . 
, but who , in a moral point of view , in personal dignity and self esteem , had swelled into a giant . 
Hence their connection with the Protestant Association of England , sanctioned by the name of Lord George Gordon and hence their present visit to The Boot . 
'Gentlemen ! said Mr Tappertit , taking off his hat as a great general might in addressing his troops . 
My lord does me and you the honour to send his compliments per self . 
'You've seen my lord too , have you ? said Dennis . 
'I see him this afternoon . 
'My duty called me to the Lobby when our shop shut up and I saw him there , sir , Mr Tappertit replied , as he and his lieutenants took their seats . 
'How do YOU do ? 'Lively , master , lively , said the fellow . 
'Here's a new brother , regularly put down in black and white by Muster Gashford a credit to the cause one of the stick at nothing sort one arter my own heart . 
D'ye see him ? Has he got the looks of a man that'll do , do you think ? he cried , as he slapped Hugh on the back . 
'Looks or no looks , said Hugh , with a drunken flourish of his arm , 'I'm the man you want . 
I hate the Papists , every one of 'em . 
They hate me and I hate them . 
They do me all the harm they can , and I'll do them all the harm I can . 
The greater part of the company implicitly subscribed to this opinion , and testified their faith in Hugh by nods and looks of great significance . 
'I say , he began , with a thoughtful brow , 'haven't I seen you before ? 'It's like you may , said Hugh , in his careless way . 
'I don't know shouldn't wonder . 
'No , but it's very easily settled , returned Sim . 
Did you ever see ME before ? You wouldn't be likely to forget it , you know , if you ever did . 
Don't be afraid I won't do you any harm . 
Take a good look steady now . 
'Come ! said Mr Tappertit , growing a little impatient under this disrespectful treatment . 
'Do you know me , feller ? 'Not I , cried Hugh . 
'Ha ha ha ! Not I ! But I should like to . 
Hugh opened his eyes on hearing this , and looked at him in great surprise . 
And so you were , too , said Mr Tappertit , pushing him away with a condescending playfulness . 
'When did MY eyes ever deceive unless it was a young woman ! Don't you know me now ? 'Why it an't Hugh faltered . 
'An't it ? said Mr Tappertit . 
'Are you sure of that ? You remember G. Varden , don't you ? Certainly Hugh did , and he remembered D. Varden too but that he didn't tell him . 
'Of course I do ! cried Hugh . 
'And I saw you there . 
'Saw me there ! said Mr Tappertit . 
'Yes , I should think you did see me there . 
The place would be troubled to go on without me . 
'Well ! and are you in the same mind now ? said Mr Tappertit . 
'You speak like a man , said Mr Tappertit , 'and I'll shake hands with you . 
With these conciliatory expressions he suited the action to the word and Hugh meeting his advances readily , they performed the ceremony with a show of great heartiness . 
'I find , said Mr Tappertit , looking round on the assembled guests , 'that brother What's his name and I are old acquaintance . 
You never heard anything more of that rascal , I suppose , eh ? 'Not a syllable , replied Hugh . 
I don't believe I ever shall . 
He's dead long ago , I hope . 
'Is your other hand at all cleaner ? Much the same . 
Well , I'll owe you another shake . 
We'll suppose it done , if you've no objection . 
, caused the necessary preliminaries to be gone into upon the spot . 
'Make anything you like of me ! cried Hugh , flourishing the can he had emptied more than once . 
'Put me on any duty you please . 
Here's my captain here's my leader . 
In fact , a sense of something whimsical in their companionship seemed to have taken entire possession of his rude brain . 
All these compliments Mr Tappertit received as matters of course flattering enough in their way , but entirely attributable to his vast superiority . 
It was not all noise and jest , however , at The Boot , nor were the whole party listeners to the speech . 
But the great attraction was a pamphlet called The Thunderer , which espoused their own opinions , and was supposed at that time to emanate directly from the Association . 
It was impossible to discard a sense that something serious was going on , and that under the noisy revel of the public house , there lurked unseen and dangerous matter . 
So they all three left the house together roaring a No Popery song until the fields resounded with the dismal noise . 
Cheer up , captain ! cried Hugh , when they had roared themselves out of breath . 
In these proceedings , Mr Dennis , who had a gruff voice and lungs of considerable power , distinguished himself very much , and acquired great credit with his two companions . 
'What a queer fellow you are ! said Mr Tappertit . 
'You're so precious sly and close . 
'Was you 'prenticed to it ? asked Mr Tappertit . 
Natural genius , said Mr Dennis . 
Muster Gashford knows my calling . 
Look at that hand of mine many and many a job that hand has done , with a neatness and dex terity , never known afore . 
'You're a kind of artist , I suppose eh ! said Mr Tappertit . 
'Yes , rejoined Dennis 'yes I may call myself a artist a fancy workman art improves natur' that's my motto . 
'And what do you call this ? said Mr Tappertit taking his stick out of his hand . 
'That's my portrait atop , Dennis replied 'd'ye think it's like ? 'Why it's a little too handsome , said Mr Tappertit . 
'Who did it ? You ? 'I ! repeated Dennis , gazing fondly on his image . 
'I wish I had the talent . 
That was carved by a friend of mine , as is now no more . 
'That was a queer fancy , wasn't it ? said Mr Tappertit . 
Ah ! He told me some things that would startle you a bit , did that friend of mine , on the morning when he died . 
'You were with him at the time , were you ? said Mr Tappertit . 
'Yes , he answered with a curious look , 'I was there . 
Oh ! yes certainly , I was there . 
He wouldn't have gone off half as comfortable without me . 
I had been with three or four of his family under the same circumstances . 
They were all fine fellows . 
'They must have been fond of you , remarked Mr Tappertit , looking at him sideways . 
'I don't know that they was exactly fond of me , said Dennis , with a little hesitation , 'but they all had me near 'em when they departed . 
I come in for their wardrobes too . 
This very handkecher that you see round my neck , belonged to him that I've been speaking of him as did that likeness . 
Mr Tappertit glanced at the article referred to , and appeared to think that the deceased's ideas of dress were of a peculiar and by no means an expensive kind . 
He made no remark upon the point , however , and suffered his mysterious companion to proceed without interruption . 
'Every one of 'em , replied Dennis . 
'That's a strange sort of man , said Mr Tappertit , watching the hackney coachman's hat as it went bobbing down the street . 
'I don't know what to make of him . 
Why can't he have his smalls made to order , or wear live clothes at any rate ? 'He's a lucky man , captain , cried Hugh . 
'I should like to have such friends as his . 
'I hope he don't get 'em to make their wills , and then knock 'em on the head , said Mr Tappertit , musing . 
The United B. 's expect me . 
On ! What's the matter ? 'I quite forgot , said Hugh , who had started at the striking of a neighbouring clock . 
'I have somebody to see to night I must turn back directly . 
The drinking and singing put it out of my head . 
'Good night , captain ! he cried . 
'I am yours to the death , remember ! 'Farewell ! said Mr Tappertit , waving his hand . 
'Be bold and vigilant ! 'No Popery , captain ! roared Hugh . 
'England in blood first ! cried his desperate leader . 
Whereat Hugh cheered and laughed , and ran off like a greyhound . 
'That man will prove a credit to my corps , said Simon , turning thoughtfully upon his heel . 
He might marry Miggs , if he was drunk enough . 
I'll make a note of it . 
The night porter looked through a small grating in the portal with a surly eye , and cried 'Halloa ! which greeting Hugh returned in kind , and bade him open quickly . 
'We don't sell beer here , cried the man 'what else do you want ? 'To come in , Hugh replied , with a kick at the door . 
'Where to go ? 'Paper Buildings . 
'Whose chambers ? 'Sir John Chester's . 
Each of which answers , he emphasised with another kick . 
After a little growling on the other side , the gate was opened , and he passed in undergoing a close inspection from the porter as he did so . 
'YOU wanting Sir John , at this time of night ! said the man . 
'I ! What of that ? 'Why , I must go with you and see that you do , for I don't believe it . 
'Do you think he wants me now ? said Hugh . 
Before the man had time to answer , a footstep was heard within , a light appeared , and Sir John , in his dressing gown and slippers , opened the door . 
'I ask your pardon , Sir John , said the porter , pulling off his hat . 
'Here's a young man says he wants to speak to you . 
I thought it best to see that all was right . 
'Aha ! cried Sir John , raising his eyebrows . 
'It's you , messenger , is it ? Go in . 
I commend your prudence highly . 
He withdrew with much humility and reverence . 
He wrote himself M. P. but how ? Why , thus . 
It was a proud family more proud , indeed , than wealthy . 
He had stood in danger of arrest of bailiffs , and a jail a vulgar jail , to which the common people with small incomes went . 
Gentlemen of ancient houses have no privilege of exemption from such cruel laws unless they are of one great house , and then they have . 
A proud man of his stock and kindred had the means of sending him there . 
It was quite as good as an Insolvent Act , and infinitely more genteel . 
So Sir John Chester was a member of Parliament . 
But how Sir John ? Nothing so simple , or so easy . 
One touch with a sword of state , and the transformation was effected . 
John Chester , Esquire , M. P. , attended court went up with an address headed a deputation . 
Such elegance of manner , so many graces of deportment , such powers of conversation , could never pass unnoticed . 
Mr was too common for such merit . 
A man so gentlemanly should have been but Fortune is capricious born a Duke just as some dukes should have been born labourers . 
He caught the fancy of the king , knelt down a grub , and rose a butterfly . 
John Chester , Esquire , was knighted and became Sir John . 
'And so you have ? he retorted , glancing at his watch . 
'And how have you been employing yourself in the meanwhile ? quoth Sir John , lazily crossing his legs . 
'Where have you been ? what harm have you been doing ? 'No harm at all , master , growled Hugh , with humility . 
'I have only done as you ordered . 
'As I WHAT ? returned Sir John . 
'Well then , said Hugh uneasily , 'as you advised , or said I ought , or said I might , or said that you would do , if you was me . 
Don't be so hard upon me , master . 
Will you ? 'I meant to give you no offence , said Hugh . 
'I don't know what to say . 
You catch me up so very short . 
'You will be caught up much shorter , my good friend infinitely shorter one of these days , depend upon it , replied his patron calmly . 
'By the bye , instead of wondering why you have been so long , my wonder should be why you came at all . 
'And could you ask no one else to read it , Bruin ? said Sir John . 
'No one that I could trust with secrets , master . 
Since Barnaby Rudge was lost sight of for good and all and that's five years ago I haven't talked with any one but you . 
'You have done me honour , I am sure . 
That's the true reason why I came to night . 
You know that , master , I am sure . 
'You are a specious fellow , returned Sir John , fixing his eyes upon him , 'and carry two faces under your hood , as well as the best . 
I'd do anything to have some revenge on him anything . 
I AM one of 'em . 
See whether I am as good as my word and turn out to be among the foremost , or no . 
I mayn't have much head , master , but I've head enough to remember those that use me ill . 
You shall see , and so shall he , and so shall hundreds more , how my spirit backs me when the time comes . 
My bark is nothing to my bite . 
'You are in a blustering mood , my friend , he said , when Hugh confronted him again . 
'Not I , master ! cried Hugh . 
'I don't say half I mean . 
I haven't got the gift . 
There are talkers enough among us I'll be one of the doers . 
'Oh ! you have joined those fellows then ? said Sir John , with an air of most profound indifference . 
I went up to the house you told me of and got put down upon the muster . 
There was another man there , named Dennis 'Dennis , eh ! cried Sir John , laughing . 
'Ay , ay ! a pleasant fellow , I believe ? 'A roaring dog , master one after my own heart hot upon the matter too red hot . 
'So I have heard , replied Sir John , carelessly . 
'You don't happen to know his trade , do you ? 'He wouldn't say , cried Hugh . 
'Ha ha ! laughed Sir John . 
'A strange fancy a weakness with some persons you'll know it one day , I dare swear . 
'We're intimate already , said Hugh . 
'Quite natural ! And have been drinking together , eh ? pursued Sir John . 
'There get you gone , said Sir John , holding the door open in his hand . 
'You have made a pretty evening's work . 
I told you not to do this . 
You may get into trouble . 
'I have it here , master . 
'Drop it again as you go along it's as well not to keep such things about you . 
Hugh nodded , and touching his cap with an air of as much respect as he could summon up , departed . 
'This happens fortunately , he said , breaking into a smile , 'and promises well . 
Good ! So much for public grounds . 
, and WOULD inflict some little chastisement on Haredale as a not inactive man among his sect , it would be extremely agreeable to my feelings , and would amuse me beyond measure . 
His intimacy with Mr Dennis is very ominous . 
But I have no doubt he must have come to that end any way . 
It's no business of mine . 
It's a matter of very small importance ! So he took another pinch of snuff , and went to bed . 
He might have been a coppersmith , and still been musical . 
If he had sat in a jolting waggon , full of rods of iron , it seemed as if he would have brought some harmony out of it . 
Beside him sat a sleek cat , purring and winking in the light , and falling every now and then into an idle doze , as from excess of comfort . 
Toby looked on from a tall bench hard by one beaming smile , from his broad nut brown face down to the slack baked buckles in his shoes . 
The very locks that hung around had something jovial in their rust , and seemed like gouty gentlemen of hearty natures , disposed to joke on their infirmities . 
There was nothing surly or severe in the whole scene . 
It seemed impossible that any one of the innumerable keys could fit a churlish strong box or a prison door . 
Cellars of beer and wine , rooms where there were fires , books , gossip , and cheering laughter these were their proper sphere of action . 
Places of distrust and cruelty , and restraint , they would have left quadruple locked for ever . 
Tink , tink , tink . 
The locksmith paused at last , and wiped his brow . 
The silence roused the cat , who , jumping softly down , crept to the door , and watched with tiger eyes a bird cage in an opposite window . 
Gabriel lifted Toby to his mouth , and took a hearty draught . 
Then , as he stood upright , with his head flung back , and his portly chest thrown out , you would have seen that Gabriel's lower man was clothed in military gear . 
A man at your time of life , Varden , should know better now . 
'Why , what a ridiculous woman you are , Martha , said the locksmith , turning round with a smile . 
'Certainly , replied Mrs V. with great demureness . 
I know that , Varden . 
'I mean began the locksmith . 
'Yes , said his wife , 'I know what you mean . 
You speak quite plain enough to be understood , Varden . 
It's very kind of you to adapt yourself to my capacity , I am sure . 
'Tut , tut , Martha , rejoined the locksmith 'don't take offence at nothing . 
'It's unchristian , cried Mrs Varden , shaking her head . 
'Unchristian ! said the locksmith . 
There was something complimentary in the idea . 
'In such a state of things as that , indeed she simpered . 
'As that ! repeated the locksmith . 
'Well , that would be the state of things directly . 
Ha ha ha ! I'd forgive the tambourine player . 
I wouldn't have him interfered with on any account , poor fellow . 
'Here she is at last ! cried Gabriel . 
If there had been anybody of the male kind there to see her do it but there was not it was a mercy . 
'I don't like your being at the Warren , said the locksmith , 'I can't bear to have you out of my sight . 
And what is the news over yonder , Doll ? 'What news there is , I think you know already , replied his daughter . 
'I am sure you do though . 
'Ay ? cried the locksmith . 
'What's that ? 'Come , come , said Dolly , 'you know very well . 
without telling his own niece why or wherefore . 
'Miss Emma doesn't want to know , I'll swear , returned the locksmith . 
'I don't know that , said Dolly 'but I do , at any rate . 
As to Mr Haredale's journey , he goes , as I believe 'Yes , said Dolly . 
'As I believe , resumed the locksmith , pinching her cheek , 'on business , Doll . 
What it may be , is quite another matter . 
Read Blue Beard , and don't be too curious , pet it's no business of yours or mine , depend upon that and here's dinner , which is much more to the purpose . 
'Oh , mim , said Miggs , 'don't relude to that . 
I had no intentions , mim , that nobody should know . 
Such sacrifices as I can make , are quite a widder's mite . 
This was quite true , though not perhaps in the sense that Miggs intended . 
'You needn't cry , Miggs , said Mrs Varden , herself in tears 'you needn't be ashamed of it , though your poor mistress IS on the same side . 
Miggs howled at this remark , in a peculiarly dismal way , and said she knowed that master hated her . 
That it was a dreadful thing to live in families and have dislikes , and not give satisfactions . 
That to make divisions was a thing she could not abear to think of , neither could her feelings let her do it . 
With this affecting conclusion , Miss Miggs shed more tears , and sobbed abundantly . 
'Can you bear this , Varden ? said his wife in a solemn voice , laying down her knife and fork . 
'Why , not very well , my dear , rejoined the locksmith , 'but I try to keep my temper . 
'Don't let there be words on my account , mim , sobbed Miggs . 
'It's much the best that we should part . 
I wouldn't stay oh , gracious me ! and make dissensions , not for a annual gold mine , and found in tea and sugar . 
Matters having now arrived at a crisis , the locksmith , as usual , and for the sake of peace and quietness , gave in . 
'What are you crying for , girl ? he said . 
'What's the matter with you ? What are you talking about hatred for ? I don't hate you I don't hate anybody . 
Dry your eyes and make yourself agreeable , in Heaven's name , and let us all be happy while we can . 
Miss Miggs observed that she bore no malice , no not to her greatest foe , whom she rather loved the more indeed , the greater persecution she sustained . 
would object , she had backed Miss Miggs up to this point , in order that she might have him at a disadvantage . 
Dolly didn't ask why not , or say a word , indeed , but stooped her head down very low to tie his sash . 
'I never wear this dress , said honest Gabriel , 'but I think of poor Joe Willet . 
I loved Joe he was always a favourite of mine . 
Poor Joe ! Dear heart , my girl , don't tie me in so tight . 
Dolly laughed not like herself at all the strangest little laugh that could be and held her head down lower still . 
'Poor Joe ! resumed the locksmith , muttering to himself 'I always wish he had come to me . 
I might have made it up between them , if he had . 
Ah ! old John made a great mistake in his way of acting by that lad a great mistake . 
Have you nearly tied that sash , my dear ? What an ill made sash it was ! There it was , loose again and trailing on the ground . 
Dolly was obliged to kneel down , and recommence at the beginning . 
'Never mind young Willet , Varden , said his wife frowning 'you might find some one more deserving to talk about , I think . 
Miss Miggs gave a great sniff to the same effect . 
'Nay , Martha , cried the locksmith , 'don't let us bear too hard upon him . 
If the lad is dead indeed , we'll deal kindly by his memory . 
'A runaway and a vagabond ! said Mrs Varden . 
Miss Miggs expressed her concurrence as before . 
'A runaway , my dear , but not a vagabond , returned the locksmith in a gentle tone . 
'He behaved himself well , did Joe always and was a handsome , manly fellow . 
Don't call him a vagabond , Martha . 
Mrs Varden coughed and so did Miggs . 
'He tried hard to gain your good opinion , Martha , I can tell you , said the locksmith smiling , and stroking his chin . 
'Ah ! that he did . 
And how's Miss Dolly , sir ? says Joe , pursued the locksmith , musing sorrowfully , 'Ah ! Poor Joe ! 'Well , I declare , cried Miggs . 
Oh mim ! oh sir . 
'There you had better make haste out . 
'What have I done ? said poor Gabriel . 
The unfortunate locksmith wound his sash about him , girded on his sword , put on his cap , and walked out . 
'I am not much of a dab at my exercise , he said under his breath , 'but I shall get into fewer scrapes at that work than at this . 
Every man came into the world for something my department seems to be to make every woman cry without meaning it . 
Having displayed their military prowess to the utmost in these warlike shows , they marched in glittering order to the Chelsea Bun House , and regaled in the adjacent taverns until dark . 
Then at sound of drum they fell in again , and returned amidst the shouting of His Majesty's lieges to the place from whence they came . 
A hackney coach was waiting near his door and as he passed it , Mr Haredale looked from the window and called him by his name . 
'The sight of you is good for sore eyes , sir , said the locksmith , stepping up to him . 
'I wish you had walked in though , rather than waited here . 
'There is nobody at home , I find , Mr Haredale answered 'besides , I desired to be as private as I could . 
'Humph ! muttered the locksmith , looking round at his house . 
'Gone with Simon Tappertit to that precious Branch , no doubt . 
Gabriel cheerfully complied , and the coachman mounting his box drove off . 
'Varden , said Mr Haredale , after a minute's pause , 'you will be amazed to hear what errand I am on it will seem a very strange one . 
'I have no doubt it's a reasonable one , sir , and has a meaning in it , replied the locksmith 'or it would not be yours at all . 
Have you just come back to town , sir ? 'But half an hour ago . 
'Bringing no news of Barnaby , or his mother ? said the locksmith dubiously . 
'Ah ! you needn't shake your head , sir . 
It was a wild goose chase . 
I feared that , from the first . 
You exhausted all reasonable means of discovery when they went away . 
To begin again after so long a time has passed is hopeless , sir quite hopeless . 
'Why , where are they ? he returned impatiently . 
'Where can they be ? Above ground ? 'God knows , rejoined the locksmith , 'many that I knew above it five years ago , have their beds under the grass now . 
And the world is a wide place . 
It's a hopeless attempt , sir , believe me . 
We must leave the discovery of this mystery , like all others , to time , and accident , and Heaven's pleasure . 
'Varden , my good fellow , said Mr Haredale , 'I have a deeper meaning in my present anxiety to find them out , than you can fathom . 
It is not a mere whim it is not the casual revival of my old wishes and desires but an earnest , solemn purpose . 
My thoughts and dreams all tend to it , and fix it in my mind . 
I have no rest by day or night I have no peace or quiet I am haunted . 
'Do not ask me , continued Mr Haredale , 'to explain myself . 
If I were to do so , you would think me the victim of some hideous fancy . 
It is enough that this is so , and that I cannot no , I can not lie quietly in my bed , without doing what will seem to you incomprehensible . 
In short , since the last nineteenth of March . 
As though he feared that Varden might express surprise , or reason with him , he hastily went on 'You will think , I know , I labour under some delusion . 
But it is not a morbid one it is a wholesome action of the mind , reasoning on actual occurrences . 
I am on my way there now . 
'For what purpose ? asked the locksmith . 
'To pass the night there , he replied 'and not to night alone , but many nights . 
This is a secret which I trust to you in case of any unexpected emergency . 
You will not come , unless in case of strong necessity , to me from dusk to broad day I shall be there . 
Emma , your daughter , and the rest , suppose me out of London , as I have been until within this hour . 
This is the errand I am bound upon . 
I know I may confide it to you , and I rely upon your questioning me no more at this time . 
At length , they arrived at the corner of the street in which the house stood , where Mr Haredale , alighting , dismissed the coach . 
'If you desire to see me safely lodged , he said , turning to the locksmith with a gloomy smile , 'you can . 
Gabriel , to whom all former marvels had been nothing in comparison with this , followed him along the narrow pavement in silence . 
When they reached the door , Mr Haredale softly opened it with a key he had about him , and closing it when Varden entered , they were left in thorough darkness . 
They groped their way into the ground floor room . 
Here Mr Haredale struck a light , and kindled a pocket taper he had brought with him for the purpose . 
It was not an unnatural impulse in Gabriel , after what he had heard , to note curiously the expression of his eyes . 
'Will you walk through the house ? said Mr Haredale , with a glance towards the window , the crazy shutters of which were closed and fastened . 
There was a kind of awe about the place , which would have rendered it difficult to speak in any other manner . 
Gabriel whispered 'Yes , and followed him upstairs . 
Everything was just as they had seen it last . 
There was a sense of closeness from the exclusion of fresh air , and a gloom and heaviness around , as though long imprisonment had made the very silence sad . 
The homely hangings of the beds and windows had begun to droop the dust lay thick upon their dwindling folds and damps had made their way through ceiling , wall , and floor . 
As they looked about them on the decaying furniture , it was strange to find how vividly it presented those to whom it had belonged , and with whom it was once familiar . 
They went downstairs , and again into the room they had just now left . 
Mr Haredale unbuckled his sword and laid it on the table , with a pair of pocket pistols then told the locksmith he would light him to the door . 
If ever man were sorely puzzled and perplexed , the locksmith was , that night . 
falling asleep in the background , he could not quite discard his wonder and uneasiness . 
Chapter Next morning brought no satisfaction to the locksmith's thoughts , nor next day , nor the next , nor many others . 
Unwilling to hazard Mr Haredale's favour by disobeying his strict injunction , he never ventured to knock at the door or to make his presence known in any way . 
But whenever strong interest and curiosity attracted him to the spot which was not seldom the light was always there . 
If he could have known what passed within , the knowledge would have yielded him no clue to this mysterious vigil . 
At twilight , Mr Haredale shut himself up , and at daybreak he came forth . 
He never missed a night , always came and went alone , and never varied his proceedings in the least degree . 
The manner of his watch was this . 
At dusk , he entered the house in the same way as when the locksmith bore him company , kindled a light , went through the rooms , and narrowly examined them . 
That done , he returned to the chamber on the ground floor , and laying his sword and pistols on the table , sat by it until morning . 
He usually had a book with him , and often tried to read , but never fixed his eyes or thoughts upon it for five minutes together . 
The slightest noise without doors , caught his ear a step upon the pavement seemed to make his heart leap . 
He was not without some refreshment during the long lonely hours generally carrying in his pocket a sandwich of bread and meat , and a small flask of wine . 
These disappointments were numerous , for they ensued on almost every sound , but his constancy was not shaken . 
Still , every night he was at his post , the same stern , sleepless , sentinel and still night passed , and morning dawned , and he must watch again . 
It was that time of evening when , if you shut your eyes and open them again , the darkness of an hour appears to have gathered in a second . 
But there was that about the well dressed man , yes , and about the other likewise , which struck Mr Haredale with no pleasant feeling . 
'I am in haste , he said . 
'Neither of us has sought this meeting . 
Let it be a brief one . 
, 'how very churlish ! We were speaking of you . 
Your name was on my lips perhaps you heard me mention it ? No ? I am sorry for that . 
Seeing that he was recognised , he put out his hand in an awkward and embarrassed manner , which was not mended by its contemptuous rejection . 
'Mr Gashford ! said Haredale , coldly . 
'It is as I have heard then . 
You have left the darkness for the light , sir , and hate those whose opinions you formerly held , with all the bitterness of a renegade . 
You are an honour , sir , to any cause . 
I wish the one you espouse at present , much joy of the acquisition it has made . 
The secretary rubbed his hands and bowed , as though he would disarm his adversary by humbling himself before him . 
Mr Haredale is too just , too generous , too clear sighted in his moral vision , to 'Yes , sir ? he rejoined with a sarcastic smile , finding the secretary stopped . 
'You were saying' Gashford meekly shrugged his shoulders , and looking on the ground again , was silent . 
'No , but let us really , interposed Sir John at this juncture , 'let us really , for a moment , contemplate the very remarkable character of this meeting . 
Haredale , my dear friend , pardon me if I think you are not sufficiently impressed with its singularity . 
'Oh ! you are hard upon our friend , replied Sir John , with an engaging smile . 
'You are really very hard upon our friend ! 'Let him go on , Sir John , said Gashford , fumbling with his gloves . 
I can make allowances , Sir John . 
I am honoured with your good opinion , and I can dispense with Mr Haredale's . 
Mr Haredale is a sufferer from the penal laws , and I can't expect his favour . 
You are the essence of your great Association , in yourselves . 
'Now , there you mistake , said Sir John , in his most benignant way . 
'There which is a most remarkable circumstance for a man of your punctuality and exactness , Haredale you fall into error . 
I feel it my duty to be so it is a most unfortunate necessity and cost me a bitter struggle . 
Will you try this box ? If you don't object to a trifling infusion of a very chaste scent , you'll find its flavour exquisite . 
I should have done more justice to your genius . 
Men of your capacity plot in secrecy and safety , and leave exposed posts to the duller wits . 
'Don't apologise , for the world , replied Sir John sweetly 'old friends like you and I , may be allowed some freedoms , or the deuce is in it . 
towards the spot where they were standing . 
All this he told the persons about him in a loud voice , and with great abundance of ungainly gesture . 
While these were in the act of being given with great energy , he extricated himself from the press , and stepped up to Gashford's side . 
Both he and Sir John being well known to the populace , they fell back a little , and left the four standing together . 
'Mr Haredale , Lord George , said Sir John Chester , seeing that the nobleman regarded him with an inquisitive look . 
'A Catholic gentleman unfortunately most unhappily a Catholic but an esteemed acquaintance of mine , and once of Mr Gashford's . 
My dear Haredale , this is Lord George Gordon . 
'I should have known that , had I been ignorant of his lordship's person , said Mr Haredale . 
'I don't hear you , sir , he replied in the same manner as before 'I can't hear you . 
It is indifferent to me what you say . 
Don't retort , Gashford , for the secretary had made a show of wishing to do so 'I can hold no communion with the worshippers of idols . 
'HE retort ! cried Haredale . 
'Look you here , my lord . 
Do you know this man ? Lord George replied by laying his hand upon the shoulder of his cringing secretary , and viewing him with a smile of confidence . 
I beg you won't obtrude your conversation , or these personal attacks , upon me . 
Come , Gashford ! They had walked on a few paces while speaking , and were now at the Hall door , through which they passed together . 
Mr Haredale , without any leave taking , turned away to the river stairs , which were close at hand , and hailed the only boatman who remained there . 
They were not silent , however , though inactive . 
At first some indistinct mutterings arose among them , which were followed by a hiss or two , and these swelled by degrees into a perfect storm . 
Then one voice said , 'Down with the Papists ! and there was a pretty general cheer , but nothing more . 
Mr Haredale had stood calmly on the brink of the steps , until they made this demonstration , when he looked round contemptuously , and walked at a slow pace down the stairs . 
The blood sprung freely from the wound , and trickled down his coat . 
He turned directly , and rushing up the steps with a boldness and passion which made them all fall back , demanded 'Who did that ? Show me the man who hit me . 
Not a soul moved except some in the rear who slunk off , and , escaping to the other side of the way , looked on like indifferent spectators . 
'Who did that ? he repeated . 
'Show me the man who did it . 
Dog , was it you ? It was your deed , if not your hand I know you . 
He threw himself on Gashford as he said the words , and hurled him to the ground . 
There was a sudden motion in the crowd , and some laid hands upon him , but his sword was out , and they fell off again . 
'My lord Sir John , he cried , 'draw , one of you you are responsible for this outrage , and I look to you . 
Draw , if you are gentlemen . 
With that he struck Sir John upon the breast with the flat of his weapon , and with a burning face and flashing eyes stood upon his guard alone , before them all . 
For an instant , for the briefest space of time the mind can readily conceive , there was a change in Sir John's smooth face , such as no man ever saw there . 
The next moment , he stepped forward , and laid one hand on Mr Haredale's arm , while with the other he endeavoured to appease the crowd . 
'My dear friend , my good Haredale , you are blinded with passion it's very natural , extremely natural but you don't know friends from foes . 
'I know them all , sir , I can distinguish well he retorted , almost mad with rage . 
For God's sake , get away . 
Come , sir , make haste as quick as you can . 
Mr Haredale , who began to turn faint and sick , felt how sensible this advice was , and descended the steps with his unknown friend's assistance . 
From this amusement , they proceeded to giving Protestant knocks at the doors of private houses , breaking a few lamps , and assaulting some stray constables . 
But , it being whispered that a detachment of Life Guards had been sent for , they took to their heels with great expedition , and left the street quite clear . 
Chapter When the concourse separated , and , dividing into chance clusters , drew off in various directions , there still remained upon the scene of the late disturbance , one man . 
It was not the secretary's nature to waste his wrath in words . 
He made no move towards them , but waited patiently on the dark side of the street , until they were tired of strolling backwards and forwards and walked away in company . 
Then he followed , but at some distance keeping them in view , without appearing to have that object , or being seen by them . 
This was a retired spot , not of the choicest kind , leading into the fields . 
Poverty has its whims and shows of taste , as wealth has . 
The population dealt in bones , in rags , in broken glass , in old wheels , in birds , and dogs . 
'Muster Gashfordl' said the man who opened it , taking his pipe from his mouth , in evident surprise . 
'Why , who'd have thought of this here honour ! Walk in , Muster Gashford walk in , sir . 
Gashford required no second invitation , and entered with a gracious air . 
, and on a stool beside it Hugh sat smoking . 
'What's in the wind now , Muster Gashford ? he said , as he resumed his pipe , and looked at him askew . 
'We have broken the ice , though . 
We had a little spurt to day eh , Dennis ? 'A very little one , growled the hangman . 
'Not half enough for me . 
'Nor me neither ! cried Hugh . 
'Give us something to do with life in it with life in it , master . 
I don't care not I. 'Nor I ! vociferated Dennis . 
'Brave fellows ! said the secretary , in as pastor like a voice as if he were commending them for some uncommon act of valour and generosity . 
'It was well done ! said the secretary , warming his hands again . 
'I should like to know that man . 
'Would you ? said Dennis , after looking at his face to assure himself that he was serious . 
'Would you like to know that man , Muster Gashford ? 'I should indeed , replied the secretary . 
'Why then , Lord love you , said the hangman , in his hoarest chuckle , as he pointed with his pipe to Hugh , 'there he sits . 
If it hadn't been for me to day , he'd have had that 'ere Roman down , and made a riot of it , in another minute . 
'And why not ? cried Hugh in a surly voice , as he overheard this last remark . 
'Where's the good of putting things off ? Strike while the iron's hot that's what I say . 
There wasn't quite enough to provoke 'em to day , I tell you . 
If you'd had your way , you'd have spoilt the fun to come , and ruined us . 
'Dennis is quite right , said Gashford , smoothly . 
Dennis has great knowledge of the world . 
'I ought to have , Muster Gashford , seeing what a many people I've helped out of it , eh ? grinned the hangman , whispering the words behind his hand . 
You saw , for instance , how I fell when I was set upon . 
I did nothing to provoke an outbreak . 
Oh dear no ! 'No , by the Lord Harry ! cried Dennis with a noisy laugh , 'you went down very quiet , Muster Gashford and very flat besides . 
He's a rough 'un to play with , is that 'ere Papist , and that's the fact . 
The secretary's face , as Dennis roared with laughter , and turned his wrinkled eyes on Hugh who did the like , might have furnished a study for the devil's picture . 
I come upon a little business yes , I do as you supposed . 
It's very flattering to you being this . 
If we ever should be obliged and we can't tell , you know this is a very uncertain world' 'I believe you , Muster Gashford , interposed the hangman with a grave nod . 
consigns to you two bearing in mind my recommendation of you both , as good staunch men , beyond all doubt and suspicion the pleasant task of punishing this Haredale . 
Do you understand me ? said Gashford , pausing , and pressing his hands together gently . 
'Understand you , master ! cried Hugh . 
Why , this is hearty ! 'I knew you would like it , said Gashford , shaking him by the hand 'I thought you would . 
Good night ! Don't rise , Dennis I would rather find my way alone . 
I may have to make other visits here , and it's pleasant to come and go without disturbing you . 
I can find my way perfectly well . 
Good night ! He was gone , and had shut the door behind him . 
They looked at each other , and nodded approvingly Dennis stirred up the fire . 
'This looks a little more like business ! he said . 
To labour in peace , and devote her labour and her life to her poor son , was all the widow sought . 
If happiness can be said at any time to be the lot of one on whom a secret sorrow preys , she was happy now . 
Tranquillity , resignation , and her strong love of him who needed it so much , formed the small circle of her quiet joys and while that remained unbroken , she was contented . 
For Barnaby himself , the time which had flown by , had passed him like the wind . 
The daily suns of years had shed no brighter gleam of reason on his mind no dawn had broken on his long , dark night . 
, and listening , God help him , to the tales she would repeat , as a lure to keep him in her sight . 
Few in that place , even of the children , could be idle , and he had no companions of his own kind . 
Indeed there were not many who could have kept up with him in his rambles , had there been a legion . 
But there were a score of vagabond dogs belonging to the neighbours , who served his purpose quite as well . 
Their pleasures on these excursions were simple enough . 
A crust of bread and scrap of meat , with water from the brook or spring , sufficed for their repast . 
There were wild flowers to pluck the bright red poppy , the gentle harebell , the cowslip , and the rose . 
It had a plot of garden ground attached , which Barnaby , in fits and starts of working , trimmed , and kept in order . 
Within doors and without , his mother laboured for their common good and hail , rain , snow , or sunshine , found no difference in her . 
Any old newspaper , or scrap of intelligence from London , she caught at with avidity . 
The excitement it produced was not of a pleasurable kind , for her manner at such times expressed the keenest anxiety and dread but it never faded in the least degree . 
But Barnaby noted little of this and putting a great constraint upon herself , she usually recovered her accustomed manner before the change had caught his observation . 
Grip was by no means an idle or unprofitable member of the humble household . 
, killing a fowl or two occasionally , and swallowing the dinners of various neighbouring dogs , of whom the boldest held him in great awe and dread . 
'We are better as we are , returned the widow with a quiet smile . 
'Let us be contented , and we do not want and need not care to have it , though it lay shining at our feet . 
'Ay ! said Barnaby , resting with crossed arms on his spade , and looking wistfully at the sunset , that's well enough , mother but gold's a good thing to have . 
I wish that I knew where to find it . 
Grip and I could do much with gold , be sure of that . 
'What would you do ? she asked . 
'What ! A world of things . 
We'd dress finely you and I , I mean not Grip keep horses , dogs , wear bright colours and feathers , do no more work , live delicately and at our ease . 
Oh , we'd find uses for it , mother , and uses that would do us good . 
I would I knew where gold was buried . 
'Ay , ay so you say so you think , he answered , still looking eagerly in the same direction . 
'For all that , mother , I should like to try . 
'Do you not see , she said , 'how red it is ? Nothing bears so many stains of blood , as gold . 
None have such cause to hate its name as we have . 
Do not so much as think of it , dear love . 
It has brought such misery and suffering on your head and mine as few have known , and God grant few may have to undergo . 
I would rather we were dead and laid down in our graves , than you should ever come to love it . 
For a moment Barnaby withdrew his eyes and looked at her with wonder . 
His face was turned towards the brightness , too , but the light that fell upon it showed that he was blind , and saw it not . 
'A blessing on those voices ! said the wayfarer . 
'I feel the beauty of the night more keenly , when I hear them . 
They are like eyes to me . 
Will they speak again , and cheer the heart of a poor traveller ? 'Have you no guide ? asked the widow , after a moment's pause . 
'None but that , he answered , pointing with his staff towards the sun 'and sometimes a milder one at night , but she is idle now . 
'Have you travelled far ? 'A weary way and long , rejoined the traveller as he shook his head . 
'A weary , weary , way . 
I struck my stick just now upon the bucket of your well be pleased to let me have a draught of water , lady . 
'Why do you call me lady ? she returned . 
'I am as poor as you . 
'Your speech is soft and gentle , and I judge by that , replied the man . 
'The coarsest stuffs and finest silks , are apart from the sense of touch alike to me . 
I cannot judge you by your dress . 
'Come round this way , said Barnaby , who had passed out at the garden gate and now stood close beside him . 
'Put your hand in mine . 
Waking or sleeping , nothing . 
Barnaby looked curiously at his eyes , and touching them with his fingers , as an inquisitive child might , led him towards the house . 
'You have come a long distance , 'said the widow , meeting him at the door . 
'May neither you nor your son ever learn under them . 
'You have wandered from the road , too , said the widow , in a tone of pity . 
'Maybe , maybe , returned the blind man with a sigh , and yet with something of a smile upon his face , 'that's likely . 
Handposts and milestones are dumb , indeed , to me . 
Thank you the more for this rest , and this refreshing drink ! As he spoke , he raised the mug of water to his mouth . 
He wore , hanging with a long strap round his neck , a kind of scrip or wallet , in which to carry food . 
When he had made her this reply , he opened his wallet , and took out a few pence , which was all it appeared to contain . 
There is the connubial blindness , ma'am , which perhaps you may have observed in the course of your own experience , and which is a kind of wilful and self bandaging blindness . 
There is the blindness of party , ma'am , and public men , which is the blindness of a mad bull in the midst of a regiment of soldiers clothed in red . 
He politely drained the bumper to her health , and the ladies , and setting it down empty , smacked his lips with infinite relish . 
'I am a citizen of the world , ma'am , said the blind man , corking his bottle , 'and if I seem to conduct myself with freedom , it is therefore . 
You wonder who I am , ma'am , and what has brought me here . 
I will satisfy your curiosity immediately , ma'am immediately . 
After waiting , as it seemed , for some remark or answer , and waiting in vain , the visitor resumed 'Madam , my name is Stagg . 
A friend of mine who has desired the honour of meeting with you any time these five years past , has commissioned me to call upon you . 
I should be glad to whisper that gentleman's name in your ear . 
Ay , ay , he added , seeming to catch with his quick ear the very motion of her hand , 'but not aloud . 
With your leave , ma'am , I desire the favour of a whisper . 
She moved towards him , and stooped down . 
He muttered a word in her ear and , wringing her hands , she paced up and down the room like one distracted . 
'You are slow in conversation , widow , he said after a time , pausing in his draught . 
'We shall have to talk before your son . 
'What would you have me do ? she answered . 
'What do you want ? 'We are poor , widow , we are poor , he retorted , stretching out his right hand , and rubbing his thumb upon its palm . 
'And what am I ? 'Comparisons are odious , said the blind man . 
'I don't know , I don't care . 
I say that we are poor . 
My friend's circumstances are indifferent , and so are mine . 
We must have our rights , widow , or we must be bought off . 
But you know that , as well as I , so where is the use of talking ? She still walked wildly to and fro . 
At length , stopping abruptly before him , she said 'Is he near here ? 'He is . 
'Then I am lost ! 'Not lost , widow , said the blind man , calmly 'only found . 
Shall I call him ? 'Not for the world , she answered , with a shudder . 
'Very good , he replied , crossing his legs again , for he had made as though he would rise and walk to the door . 
'As you please , widow . 
His presence is not necessary that I know of . 
But both he and I must live to live , we must eat and drink to eat and drink , we must have money I say no more . 
'Do you know how pinched and destitute I am ? she retorted . 
'I do not think you do , or can . 
If you had eyes , and could look around you on this poor place , you would have pity on me . 
Oh ! let your heart be softened by your own affliction , friend , and have some sympathy with mine . 
The blind man snapped his fingers as he answered Beside the question , ma'am , beside the question . 
I have the softest heart in the world , but I can't live upon it . 
Many a gentleman lives well upon a soft head , who would find a heart of the same quality a very great drawback . 
This is a matter of business , with which sympathies and sentiments have nothing to do . 
As a mutual friend , I wish to arrange it in a satisfactory manner , if possible and thus the case stands . 
If you are very poor now , it's your own choice . 
You have friends who , in case of need , are always ready to help you . 
, and I quite approve of his entertaining this opinion . 
You have always had a roof over your head he has always been an outcast . 
You have your son to comfort and assist you he has nobody at all . 
The advantages must not be all one side . 
You are in the same boat , and we must divide the ballast a little more equally . 
She was about to speak , but he checked her , and went on . 
'The only way of doing this , is by making up a little purse now and then for my friend and that's what I advise . 
He laid a great stress on these latter words , and paused as if to find out what effect they had produced . 
She only answered by her tears . 
In a word , my friend has pressing necessity for twenty pounds . 
You , who can give up an annuity , can get that sum for him . 
It's a pity you should be troubled . 
You seem very comfortable here , and it's worth that much to remain so . 
Twenty pounds , widow , is a moderate demand . 
You know where to apply for it a post will bring it you . 
Twenty pounds ! She was about to answer him again , but again he stopped her . 
'Don't say anything hastily you might be sorry for it . 
Think of it a little while . 
Twenty pounds of other people's money how easy ! Turn it over in your mind . 
Night's coming on , and if I don't sleep here , I shall not go far . 
Twenty pounds ! Consider of it , ma'am , for twenty minutes give each pound a minute that's a fair allowance . 
I'll enjoy the air the while , which is very mild and pleasant in these parts . 
With these words he groped his way to the door , carrying his chair with him . 
It was a lovely evening , of that gentle kind , and at that time of year , when the twilight is most beautiful . 
'For I carry some comfort , you see , he said . 
Is it good ? The water stood in Barnaby's eyes as he coughed from the strength of the draught , and answered in the affirmative . 
'Drink some more , said the blind man 'don't be afraid of it . 
You don't taste anything like that , often , eh ? 'Often ! cried Barnaby . 
'Never ! 'Too poor ? returned the blind man with a sigh . 
Your mother , poor soul , would be happier if she was richer , Barnaby . 
Is there any way of being rich , that I could find out ? 'Any way ! A hundred ways . 
'Ay , ay ? he returned . 
'Do you say so ? What are they ? Nay , mother , it's for your sake I ask not mine for yours , indeed . 
'By stay at homes ! cried Barnaby , plucking at his sleeve . 
'But I am not one . 
Now , there you mistake . 
I am often out before the sun , and travel home when he has gone to rest . 
But I never find it . 
Tell me where it is . 
I'd go there , if the journey were a whole year long , because I know she would be happier when I came home and brought some with me . 
I'll listen to you if you talk all night . 
'Good ! good ! cried Barnaby , rubbing his hands . 
'Yes ! I love that . 
'You hear this , mother ? cried Barnaby , turning to her with delight . 
'Never tell me we shouldn't heed it , if it lay shining at out feet . 
Why do we heed it so much now ? Why do you toil from morning until night ? 'Surely , said the blind man , 'surely . 
Have you no answer , widow ? Is your mind , he slowly added , 'not made up yet ? 'Let me speak with you , she answered , 'apart . 
'Lay your hand upon my sleeve , said Stagg , arising from the table 'and lead me where you will . 
We'll talk more of this I've a fancy for you . 
Wait there till I come back . 
She led him out at the door , and into the little garden , where they stopped . 
'You are a fit agent , she said , in a half breathless manner , 'and well represent the man who sent you here . 
'I'll tell him that you said so , Stagg retorted . 
We must have our rights , widow . 
'Rights ! Do you know , she said , 'that a word from me 'Why do you stop ? returned the blind man calmly , after a long pause . 
'Do I know that a word from you would place my friend in the last position of the dance of life ? Yes , I do . 
What of that ? It will never be spoken , widow . 
'You are sure of that ? 'Quite so sure , that I don't come here to discuss the question . 
I say we must have our rights , or we must be bought off . 
Bah ! you needn't speak , he added hastily 'I know what you would say you have hinted at it once already . 
Have I no feeling for you , because I am blind ? No , I have not . 
'Well ? he cried , quickly resuming his former manner . 
'That should lead to something . 
The point , widow ? 'First answer me one question , she replied . 
'You say he is close at hand . 
Has he left London ? 'Being close at hand , widow , it would seem he has , returned the blind man . 
'I mean , for good ? You know that . 
The truth is , widow , that his making a longer stay there might have had disagreeable consequences . 
He has come away for that reason . 
'Listen , said the widow , telling some money out , upon a bench beside them . 
'Six , said the blind man , listening attentively . 
'Any more ? 'They are the savings , she answered , 'of five years . 
He put out his hand for one of the coins felt it carefully , put it between his teeth , rung it on the bench and nodded to her to proceed . 
'These have been scraped together and laid by , lest sickness or death should separate my son and me . 
They have been purchased at the price of much hunger , hard labour , and want of rest . 
If you CAN take them do on condition that you leave this place upon the instant , and enter no more into that room , where he sits now , expecting your return . 
'Six guineas , said the blind man , shaking his head , 'though of the fullest weight that were ever coined , fall very far short of twenty pounds , widow . 
'For such a sum , as you know , I must write to a distant part of the country . 
To do that , and receive an answer , I must have time . 
'Two days ? said Stagg . 
'Four days ? 'A week . 
Return on this day week , at the same hour , but not to the house . 
Wait at the corner of the lane . 
'Set me with my face towards the point you speak of , and in the middle of the road . 
Is this the spot ? 'It is . 
'On this day week at sunset . 
And think of him within doors . 
For the present , good night . 
She made him no answer , nor did he stop for any . 
He went slowly away , turning his head from time to time , and stopping to listen , as if he were curious to know whether he was watched by any one . 
The shadows of night were closing fast around , and he was soon lost in the gloom . 
'What is the matter ? Where is the blind man ? 'He is gone . 
'Gone ! he cried , starting up . 
'I must have more talk with him . 
Which way did he take ? 'I don't know , she answered , folding her arms about him . 
'You must not go out to night . 
There are ghosts and dreams abroad . 
'Ay ? said Barnaby , in a frightened whisper . 
'It is not safe to stir . 
We must leave this place to morrow . 
'This place ! This cottage and the little garden , mother ! 'Yes ! To morrow morning at sunrise . 
We must travel to London lose ourselves in that wide place there would be some trace of us in any other town then travel on again , and find some new abode . 
Little persuasion was required to reconcile Barnaby to anything that promised change . 
His mother did not close her eyes , but sat beside him , watching . 
At length the welcome day appeared . 
His clothes were few enough , and to carry Grip was a labour of love . 
As the sun shed his earliest beams upon the earth , they closed the door of their deserted home , and turned away . 
The sky was blue and bright . 
The air was fresh and filled with a thousand perfumes . 
Barnaby looked upward , and laughed with all his heart . 
He had to bid him go back in a surly tone , and his heart smote him while he did so . 
The dog retreated turned with a half incredulous , half imploring look came a little back and stopped . 
It was the last appeal of an old companion and a faithful friend cast off . 
Barnaby could bear no more , and as he shook his head and waved his playmate home , he burst into tears . 
His delight was hers and where many a wise son would have made her sorrowful , this poor light hearted idiot filled her breast with thankfulness and love . 
Their stock of money was low , but from the hoard she had told into the blind man's hand , the widow had withheld one guinea . 
This , with the few pence she possessed besides , was to two persons of their frugal habits , a goodly sum in bank . 
'Vagrants , said the gentleman , 'vagrants and vagabonds . 
'Don't he too sure of that , replied the gentleman , 'we don't allow vagrants to roam about this place . 
'I'm a devil I'm a devil I'm a devil , Never say die Hurrah Bow wow wow , Polly put the kettle on we'll all have tea . 
'Take the vermin out , scoundrel , said the gentleman , 'and let me see him . 
The cork drawing seemed to make a greater impression on the gentleman's mind , than the raven's power of speech , and was indeed particularly adapted to his habits and capacity . 
'Bring him along , said the gentleman , pointing to the house . 
'An idiot , eh ? said the gentleman , looking at Barnaby as he spoke . 
'And how long hast thou been an idiot ? 'She knows , was Barnaby's timid answer , pointing to his mother 'I always , I believe . 
'From his birth , said the widow . 
'I don't believe it , cried the gentleman , 'not a bit of it . 
It's an excuse not to work . 
There's nothing like flogging to cure that disorder . 
I'd make a difference in him in ten minutes , I'll be bound . 
'Heaven has made none in more than twice ten years , sir , said the widow mildly . 
'Then why don't you shut him up ? we pay enough for county institutions , damn 'em . 
But thou'd rather drag him about to excite charity of course . 
Ay , I know thee . 
Now , this gentleman had various endearing appellations among his intimate friends . 
He had no seat in Parliament himself , but he was extremely patriotic , and usually drove his voters up to the poll with his own hands . 
He was warmly attached to church and state , and never appointed to the living in his gift any but a three bottle man and a first rate fox hunter . 
for possessing those accomplishments in a greater degree than himself . 
In short , Barnaby being an idiot , and Grip a creature of mere brute instinct , it would be very hard to say what this gentleman was . 
'Here ! Thou'st no delight in following the hounds as an Englishwoman should have , said the gentleman . 
The lady smiled , sat down at a little distance from him , and glanced at Barnaby with a look of pity . 
'He's an idiot , the woman says , observed the gentleman , shaking his head 'I don't believe it . 
'Are you his mother ? asked the lady . 
'What's the use of asking HER ? said the gentleman , thrusting his hands into his breeches pockets . 
'She'll tell thee so , of course . 
Most likely he's hired , at so much a day . 
The lady too , was much amused with him and the closing point of his obstinacy so delighted her husband that he burst into a roar of laughter , and demanded his price . 
Barnaby looked as though he didn't understand his meaning . 
'Thou seest how much of an idiot he is , book learner , said the gentleman , looking scornfully at his wife . 
'He can make a bargain . 
What dost want for him , old woman ? 'He is my son's constant companion , said the widow . 
'He is not to be sold , sir , indeed . 
'Not to be sold ! cried the gentleman , growing ten times redder , hoarser , and louder than before . 
'Not to be sold ! 'Indeed no , she answered . 
'We have never thought of parting with him , sir , I do assure you . 
'If they prefer to keep him 'Prefer to keep him ! he echoed . 
Don't tell me no , he roared to the widow , 'I say , yes . 
Barnaby's mother pleaded guilty to the accusation , and hoped there was no harm in it . 
'No harm ! said the gentleman . 
No harm , ye old rebel , not a bit of harm . 
She little thought then , that a circumstance so slight would ever influence their future fortunes but time and experience enlightened her in this respect . 
'I wish that we may meet with him again . 
'But why do you desire to see him , love ? she asked . 
He told me he'd come back . 
I wonder why he broke his word ! 'But you never thought of being rich or gay , before , dear Barnaby . 
You have always been contented . 
He laughed and bade her say that again , then cried , 'Ay ay oh yes , and laughed once more . 
Then something passed that caught his fancy , and the topic wandered from his mind , and was succeeded by another just as fleeting . 
She tried every means to discover , but in vain and the probability is that Barnaby himself was equally in the dark . 
For the freshness which night sheds upon such busy thoroughfares had already departed , and the sun was shining with uncommon lustre . 
Chapter Uncertain where to go next , and bewildered by the crowd of people who were already astir , they sat down in one of the recesses on the bridge , to rest . 
At first , the current of people had been confined to the two pathways , and but a few more eager stragglers kept the road . 
'What have they to do with it ! the old man replied . 
'Do you hear that , mother ! 'And they're mustering yonder , as I am told , resumed the old man , 'nigh upon a hundred thousand strong . 
Ah ! Let Lord George alone . 
HE knows ! And so , with much mumbling and chuckling and shaking of his forefinger , he rose , with the assistance of his stick , and tottered off . 
'Mother ! said Barnaby , 'that's a brave crowd he talks of . 
Come ! 'Not to join it ! cried his mother . 
'Yes , yes , he answered , plucking at her sleeve . 
'Why not ? Come ! 'You don't know , she urged , 'what mischief they may do , where they may lead you , what their meaning is . 
Dear Barnaby , for my sake 'For your sake ! he cried , patting her hand . 
'Well ! It IS for your sake , mother . 
You remember what the blind man said , about the gold . 
Here's a brave crowd ! Come ! Or wait till I come back yes , yes , wait here . 
She tried with all the earnestness her fears engendered , to turn him from his purpose , but in vain . 
He was stooping down to buckle on his shoe , when a hackney coach passed them rather quickly , and a voice inside called to the driver to stop . 
'Young man , said a voice within . 
'Who's that ? cried Barnaby , looking up . 
'Do you wear this ornament ? returned the stranger , holding out a blue cockade . 
'In Heaven's name , no . 
Pray do not give it him ! exclaimed the widow . 
'Speak for yourself , woman , said the man within the coach , coldly . 
'Leave the young man to his choice he's old enough to make it , and to snap your apron strings . 
He knows , without your telling , whether he wears the sign of a loyal Englishman or not . 
Barnaby , trembling with impatience , cried , 'Yes ! yes , yes , I do , as he had cried a dozen times already . 
The man threw him a cockade , and crying , 'Make haste to St George's Fields , ordered the coachman to drive on fast and left them . 
Observing them , and seeing how Barnaby was occupied , they stopped , whispered together for an instant , turned back , and came over to them . 
'Why are you sitting here ? said one of them , who was dressed in a plain suit of black , wore long lank hair , and carried a great cane . 
'Why have you not gone with the rest ? 'I am going , sir , replied Barnaby , finishing his task , and putting his hat on with an air of pride . 
'I shall be there directly . 
'Say my lord , young man , when his lordship does you the honour of speaking to you , said the second gentleman mildly . 
'If you don't know Lord George Gordon when you see him , it's high time you should . 
Put on your hat , friend , and follow us , for you lag behind and are late . 
Didn't you know that the hour for assembling was ten o'clock ? Barnaby shook his head and looked vacantly from one to the other . 
'You might have known it , friend , said Gashford , 'it was perfectly understood . 
How came you to be so ill informed ? 'He cannot tell you , sir , the widow interposed . 
'It's of no use to ask him . 
We are but this morning come from a long distance in the country , and know nothing of these matters . 
'The cause has taken a deep root , and has spread its branches far and wide , said Lord George to his secretary . 
'This is a pleasant hearing . 
I thank Heaven for it ! 'Amen ! cried Gashford with a solemn face . 
'You do not understand me , my lord , said the widow . 
'Pardon me , but you cruelly mistake my meaning . 
We know nothing of these matters . 
We have no desire or right to join in what you are about to do . 
This is my son , my poor afflicted son , dearer to me than my own life . 
Have you the heart to say this of your own son , unnatural mother ! 'I am astonished at you ! said Gashford , with a kind of meek severity . 
'This is a very sad picture of female depravity . 
'To be sure I did ! I told her so myself . 
'I see , replied Lord George , with a reproachful glance at the unhappy mother . 
Follow me and this gentleman , and you shall have your wish . 
Barnaby kissed his mother tenderly on the cheek , and bidding her be of good cheer , for their fortunes were both made now , did as he was desired . 
She , poor woman , followed too with how much fear and grief it would be hard to tell . 
They were really fields at that time , and of considerable extent . 
A large portion , both of the bodies which paraded the ground , and of those which remained stationary , were occupied in singing hymns or psalms . 
Scouts had been posted in advance of the great body , to give notice of their leader's coming . 
Then they burst into a tremendous shout , into another , and another and the air seemed rent and shaken , as if by the discharge of cannon . 
I feel and know it . 
I am the leader of a host . 
'It is a noble day for England , and for the great cause throughout the world . 
'Do not unfit me , dear Gashford , for the solemn duty of this glorious day the tears stood in the eyes of the poor gentleman as he said the words . 
'Let us go among them we have to find a place in some division for this new recruit give me your hand . 
They had by this time taken to their singing again , and as their leader passed between their ranks , they raised their voices to their utmost . 
Many of those who were banded together to support the religion of their country , even unto death , had never heard a hymn or psalm in all their lives . 
'How now ! he cried . 
What , you wear the colour , do you ? Well done ! Ha ha ha ! 'You know this young man , I see , said Lord George . 
'Know him , my lord ! as well as I know my own right hand . 
'Will you take him into your division ? 'It hasn't in it a better , nor a nimbler , nor a more active man , than Barnaby Rudge , said Hugh . 
'Show me the man who says it has ! Fall in , Barnaby . 
'In the name of God , no ! shrieked the widow , darting forward . 
'Barnaby my lord see he'll come back Barnaby Barnaby ! 'Women in the field ! cried Hugh , stepping between them , and holding her off . 
'Holloa ! My captain there ! 'What's the matter here ? cried Simon Tappertit , bustling up in a great heat . 
'Do you call this order ? 'Nothing like it , captain , answered Hugh , still holding her back with his outstretched hand . 
Ladies are carrying off our gallant soldiers from their duty . 
The word of command , captain ! They're filing off the ground . 
Quick ! 'Close ! cried Simon , with the whole power of his lungs . 
Chapter The mob had been divided from its first assemblage into four divisions the London , the Westminster , the Southwark , and the Scotch . 
, Dennis the hangman , Hugh , and some others . 
The word of command being given , each of these great bodies took the road assigned to it , and departed on its way , in perfect order and profound silence . 
'What do you think of this ? asked Hugh , as they passed through the crowded streets , and looked up at the windows which were thronged with spectators . 
There's nothing in the show , like Barnaby . 
All eyes are turned on him . 
You're ready for action I hope , eh ? You , I mean , he added , nudging Barnaby roughly with his elbow . 
'What are you staring at ? Why don't you speak ? Barnaby had been gazing at his flag , and looked vacantly from his questioner to Hugh . 
'He don't understand your way , said the latter . 
'Here , I'll explain it to him . 
Barnaby old boy , attend to me . 
'I'll attend , said Barnaby , looking anxiously round 'but I wish I could see her somewhere . 
'See who ? demanded Dennis in a gruff tone . 
'You an't in love I hope , brother ? That an't the sort of thing for us , you know . 
We mustn't have no love here . 
'She would be proud indeed to see me now , eh Hugh ? said Barnaby . 
'Wouldn't it make her glad to see me at the head of this large show ? She'd cry for joy , I know she would . 
'We an't got no sentimental members among us , I hope . 
'Don't be uneasy , brother , cried Hugh , 'he's only talking of his mother . 
'Of his what ? said Mr Dennis with a strong oath . 
'And have I combined myself with this here section , and turned out on this here memorable day , to hear men talk about their mothers ! growled Mr Dennis with extreme disgust . 
'The notion of a man's sweetheart's bad enough , but a man's mother ! and here his disgust was so extreme that he spat upon the ground , and could say no more . 
'Barnaby's right , cried Hugh with a grin , 'and I say it . 
'Ay ! said Barnaby , his face beaming with delight 'have you indeed ? That's a good hearing . 
'No , indeed ? cried Barnaby . 
'Nothing at all , said Hugh . 
That's all we've got to do . 
'Is that all ? cried Barnaby with glistening eyes , as he clutched his pole the tighter 'I warrant you I keep this one safe , then . 
You have put it in good hands . 
You know me , Hugh . 
Nobody shall wrest this flag away . 
'Well said ! cried Hugh . 
'Ha ha ! Nobly said ! That's the old stout Barnaby , that I have climbed and leaped with , many and many a day I knew I was not mistaken in Barnaby . 
You shall soon see whether he's of use or not . 
Mr Dennis received these explanatory remarks with many nods and winks , and softened his behaviour towards Barnaby from that moment . 
Hugh , laying his finger on his nose , stepped back into his former place , and they proceeded in silence . 
It was between two and three o'clock in the afternoon when the three great parties met at Westminster , and , uniting into one huge mass , raised a tremendous shout . 
It is a familiar expression in describing a great crowd , that a person might have walked upon the people's heads . 
The noise and uproar were on the increase every moment . 
The air was filled with execrations , hoots , and howlings . 
The mob raged and roared , like a mad monster as it was , unceasingly , and each new outrage served to swell its fury . 
Within doors , matters were even yet more threatening . 
His followers pouring in at the same time , the lobby and all the avenues were immediately filled , as we have seen . 
It was on these stairs that Barnaby , Hugh , and Dennis were posted . 
Between them was a kind of well , or unglazed skylight , for the admission of light and air into the lobby , which might be some eighteen or twenty feet below . 
'Order ! cried Hugh , in a voice which made itself heard even above the roar and tumult , as Lord George appeared at the top of the staircase . 
'News ! News from my lord ! The noise continued , notwithstanding his appearance , until Gashford looked round . 
'Gentlemen , said Lord George , who was very pale and agitated , we must be firm . 
They talk of delays , but we must have no delays . 
They talk of taking your petition into consideration next Tuesday , but we must have it considered now . 
Present appearances look bad for our success , but we must succeed and will ! 'We must succeed and will ! echoed the crowd . 
And so among their shouts and cheers and other cries , he bowed to them and retired , and presently came back again . 
There was another gesture from Gashford , and a dead silence directly . 
'I am afraid , he said , this time , 'that we have little reason , gentlemen , to hope for any redress from the proceedings of Parliament . 
But we must redress our own grievances , we must meet again , we must put our trust in Providence , and it will bless our endeavours . 
This speech being a little more temperate than the last , was not so favourably received . 
The boldness of this action quite took them by surprise . 
I am a soldier , you may tell them , and I will protect the freedom of this place with my sword . 
Have a care what you do . 
'And my Lord George , said the other gentleman , addressing him in like manner , 'I desire them to hear this , from me Colonel Gordon your near relation . 
'What now ! Hugh roared aloud , turning towards them . 
'Why go back ? Where can you do better than here , boys ! One good rush against these doors and one below at the same time , will do the business . 
Rush on , then ! As to the door below , let those stand back who are afraid . 
Let those who are not afraid , try who shall be the first to pass it . 
Here goes ! Look out down there ! Without the delay of an instant , he threw himself headlong over the bannisters into the lobby below . 
He had hardly touched the ground when Barnaby was at his side . 
Fearful of sustaining a charge in the narrow passages in which they were so closely wedged together , the throng poured out as impetuously as they had flocked in . 
The Riot Act was read , but not a man stirred . 
In the first rank of the insurgents , Barnaby and Hugh stood side by side . 
After an ineffectual attempt to make himself heard , the magistrate gave the word and the Horse Guards came riding in among the crowd . 
At the sight of gashed and bloody faces , seen for a moment in the crowd , then hidden by the press around them , Barnaby turned pale and sick . 
Barnaby assenting , they decided on this course of action , and pulled for Blackfriars accordingly . 
They landed at a critical time , and fortunately for themselves at the right moment . 
There was a opportunity ! But it led to nothing . 
For my part , I don't know what would . 
There's no spirit among the people in these here times . 
Bring something to eat and drink here . 
'On what account ? asked Mr Tappertit , who had been quenching his fiery face in a half gallon can . 
'Don't you consider this a good beginning , mister ? 'Give me security that it an't a ending , rejoined the hangman . 
Ah , said the hangman , in a tone of deep disgust , 'it makes me blush for my feller creeturs . 
The company who were thus libelled might have retaliated by strong words , if not by blows , but they were dispirited and worn out . 
Others remained but to refresh themselves , and then went home desponding others who had theretofore been regular in their attendance , avoided the place altogether . 
Even they were fast asleep upon the benches , when Gashford's entrance roused them . 
'Oh ! you ARE here then ? said the Secretary . 
'Dear me ! 'Why , where should we be , Muster Gashford ! Dennis rejoined as he rose into a sitting posture . 
'Oh nowhere , nowhere , he returned with excessive mildness . 
'The streets are filled with blue cockades . 
I rather thought you might have been among them . 
I am glad you are not . 
'You have orders for us , master , then ? said Hugh . 
Not I. No orders , my good fellow . 
What orders should I have ? You are not in my service . 
'Muster Gashford , remonstrated Dennis , 'we belong to the cause , don't we ? 'The cause ! repeated the secretary , looking at him in a sort of abstraction . 
You have heard , I suppose ? The petition is rejected by a hundred and ninety two , to six . 
We might have spared ourselves some trouble . 
That , and my lord's vexation , are the only circumstances I regret . 
I am quite satisfied in all other respects . 
His two adherents looked at each other , and at him , as if they were at a loss how to pursue the subject . 
'What would you have us do , master ! cried Hugh . 
'Nothing , returned Gashford , shrugging his shoulders , 'nothing . 
When my lord was reproached and threatened for standing by you , I , as a prudent man , would have had you do nothing . 
When the soldiers were trampling you under their horses' feet , I would have had you do nothing . 
This is the young man who had so little prudence and so much boldness . 
Ah ! I am sorry for him . 
'Sorry , master ! cried Hugh . 
'Sorry , Muster Gashford ! echoed Dennis . 
'Fire and fury , master ! cried Hugh , starting up . 
'What have we done , that you should talk to us like this ! 'Nothing , returned Gashford with a sneer . 
You'll find it your best policy , I have no doubt . 
'Come on ! cried Hugh , striding towards the door . 
'Dennis Barnaby come on ! 'Where ? To do what ? said Gashford , slipping past him , and standing with his back against it . 
'Anywhere ! Anything ! cried Hugh . 
'Stand aside , master , or the window will serve our turn as well . 
Drink with Muster Gashford ! Hugh wiped his heated brow , and relaxed into a smile . 
The artful secretary laughed outright . 
'Some liquor here ! Be quick , or he'll not stop , even for that . 
They shook hands together poor Barnaby evidently possessed with the idea that he was among the most virtuous and disinterested heroes in the world and Gashford laughed again . 
'No jails and halter for Barnaby and me . 
They must be frightened out of that . 
Leaders are wanted , are they ? Now boys ! 'A most impetuous fellow ! cried the secretary . 
They were filled with people , for the rumour of that day's proceedings had made a great noise . 
Those persons who did not care to leave home , were at their doors or windows , and one topic of discourse prevailed on every side . 
They had torches among them , and the chief faces were distinctly visible . 
As it passed away upon its work of wrath and ruin , a piercing scream was heard . 
A knot of persons ran towards the spot Gashford , who just then emerged into the street , among them . 
'Is that all ? said the secretary , turning his face homewards . 
The soldiers were again called out , again they took half a dozen prisoners , and again the crowd dispersed after a short and bloodless scuffle . 
Hot and drunken though they were , they had not yet broken all bounds and set all law and government at defiance . 
The clock was on the stroke of one , when Gabriel Varden , with his lady and Miss Miggs , sat waiting in the little parlour . 
You're really worse than the dripping of a hundred water butts outside the window , or the scratching of as many mice behind the wainscot . 
Do go to bed , Miggs . 
'You haven't got nothing to untie , sir , returned Miss Miggs , 'and therefore your requests does not surprise me . 
But to be quiet with such a basilisk before him was impossible . 
'Me ! cried the well known voice of Mr Tappertit . 
Gabriel opened the door , and gave him admission . 
'Sir , replied Mr Tappertit , with a contemptuous look , 'I wonder at YOUR assurance in making such demands . 
'You have been drinking , said the locksmith . 
'As a general principle , and in the most offensive sense of the words , sir , returned his journeyman with great self possession , 'I consider you a liar . 
In that last observation you have unintentionally unintentionally , sir , struck upon the truth . 
Miss Miggs wrung her hands , and wept . 
'He was not at Duke Street , or at Warwick Street , G. Varden , said Simon , sternly 'but he WAS at Westminster . 
Beware , G. Varden ! 'Now , I would rather , said the locksmith hastily , 'have paid five hundred pounds , than had this come to pass . 
You idiot , do you know what peril you stand in ? 'I know it , sir , replied his journeyman , 'and it is my glory . 
I was there , everybody saw me there . 
I was conspicuous , and prominent . 
I will abide the consequences . 
Be sorry for what you have done , and we will try to save you . 
From there he can easily get on to Canterbury , where your cousin will give him work till this storm has blown over . 
Lock the front door , Miggs , and show no light towards the street when you go upstairs . 
Every minute is of consequence . 
The light here , Miggs ! 'Yes yes , oh do ! Go to bed directly , cried the two women together . 
Mrs Varden , take this piece of paper . 
It's a protection , ma'am . 
With these words he held out at arm's length , a dirty , crumpled scrap of writing . 
I am well assured that the proprietor of this house is a staunch and worthy friend to the cause . 
'What's this ! said the locksmith , with an altered face . 
'Something that'll do you good service , young feller , replied his journeyman , 'as you'll find . 
Keep that safe , and where you can lay your hand upon it in an instant . 
And chalk No Popery on your door to morrow night , and for a week to come that's all . 
'This is a genuine document , said the locksmith , 'I know , for I have seen the hand before . 
What threat does it imply ? What devil is abroad ? 'A fiery devil , retorted Sim 'a flaming , furious devil . 
Don't you put yourself in its way , or you're done for , my buck . 
Be warned in time , G. Varden . 
'I tell you , said Mr Tappertit , 'that my mind is made up . 
My bleeding country calls me and I go ! Miggs , if you don't get out of the way , I'll pinch you . 
Miss Miggs , still clinging to the rebel , screamed once vociferously but whether in the distraction of her mind , or because of his having executed his threat , is uncertain . 
'Release me , said Simon , struggling to free himself from her chaste , but spider like embrace . 
'I leave , said Simon , turning to his master , with an utter disregard of Miggs's maidenly affliction , 'a box of things upstairs . 
Do what you like with 'em . 
I'm never coming back here , any more . 
Provide yourself , sir , with a journeyman I'm my country's journeyman henceforward that's MY line of business . 
'Be what you like in two hours' time , but now go up to bed , returned the locksmith , planting himself in the doorway . 
'Do you hear me ? Go to bed ! 'I hear you , and defy you , Varden , rejoined Simon Tappertit . 
'This night , sir , I have been in the country , planning an expedition which shall fill your bell hanging soul with wonder and dismay . 
The plot demands my utmost energy . 
Let me pass ! 'I'll knock you down if you come near the door , replied the locksmith . 
, and darted down the street like a mad dog . 
The locksmith paused for a moment in the excess of his astonishment , and then gave chase . 
But the short winded locksmith had no chance against a man of Sim's youth and spare figure , though the day had been when he could have run him down in no time . 
'Go thy ways , Sim , go thy ways , said the locksmith , as soon as he could speak . 
'I have done my best for thee , poor lad , and would have saved thee , but the rope is round thy neck , I fear . 
I don't mean to reproach you , my dear . 
But recollect from this time that all good things perverted to evil purposes , are worse than those which are naturally bad . 
A thoroughly wicked woman , is wicked indeed . 
When religion goes wrong , she is very wrong , for the same reason . 
Let us say no more about it , my dear . 
So he dropped the red brick dwelling house on the floor , and setting his heel upon it , crushed it into pieces . 
The halfpence , and sixpences , and other voluntary contributions , rolled about in all directions , but nobody offered to touch them , or to take them up . 
'That , said the locksmith , 'is easily disposed of , and I would to Heaven that everything growing out of the same society could be settled as easily . 
That in case any should occur , we have the piece of paper which that poor misguided young man brought . 
'Ay , to be sure , said the locksmith , turning quickly round . 
'Where is that piece of paper ? Mrs Varden stood aghast as he took it from her outstretched band , tore it into fragments , and threw them under the grate . 
'Not use it ? she said . 
'Use it ! cried the locksmith . 
Use it ! Let them come and do their worst . 
The first man who crosses my doorstep on such an errand as theirs , had better be a hundred miles away . 
Let him look to it . 
The others may have their will . 
I wouldn't beg or buy them off , if , instead of every pound of iron in the place , there was a hundred weight of gold . 
Get you to bed , Martha . 
I shall take down the shutters and go to work . 
'So early ! said his wife . 
'Ay , replied the locksmith cheerily , 'so early . 
Chapter A mob is usually a creature of very mysterious existence , particularly in a large city . 
Where it comes from or whither it goes , few men can tell . 
Some slept in the stable and outhouses , some in the common room , some two or three in beds . 
The rest were in their usual homes or haunts . 
As to the public ways within the town , they had their ordinary nightly occupants , and no others the usual amount of vice and wretchedness , but no more . 
All day , Saturday , they remained quiet . 
On Sunday , they rather studied how to keep their men within call , and in full hope , than to follow out , by any fierce measure , their first day's proceedings . 
'I'm in no humour to stir yet , though . 
I'm as stiff as a dead body , and as full of ugly scratches as if I had been fighting all day yesterday with wild cats . 
You hurt yourself a hundred times more than you need , because you will be foremost in everything , and will do more than the rest . 
'For the matter of that , returned Hugh , shaking back his ragged hair and glancing towards the door of the stable in which they lay 'there's one yonder as good as me . 
As to his soldiering , I put him on duty there . 
'Then there was a object in it , and a proper good one too , I'll be sworn , retorted Dennis with a broad grin , and an oath of the same quality . 
Dennis looked to where Simon Tappertit lay coiled upon a truss of hay , snoring profoundly , and nodded . 
'And our noble captain , continued Hugh with another laugh , 'our noble captain and I , have planned for to morrow a roaring expedition , with good profit in it . 
'Again the Papists ? asked Dennis , rubbing his hands . 
'Ay , against the Papists against one of 'em at least , that some of us , and I for one , owe a good heavy grudge to . 
'Not Muster Gashford's friend that he spoke to us about in my house , eh ? said Dennis , brimfull of pleasant expectation . 
'The same man , said Hugh . 
'That's your sort , cried Mr Dennis , gaily shaking hands with him , 'that's the kind of game . 
Let's have revenges and injuries , and all that , and we shall get on twice as fast . 
Rouse yourself , lion heart . 
Ha ha ! Put a good face upon it , and drink again . 
, and proceeded to enlighten Mr Dennis in reference to to morrow's project . 
That their conversation was an interesting one , was rendered manifest by its length , and by the close attention of all three . 
Their numbers rapidly increasing , they soon divided into parties and agreeing to meet by and by , in the fields near Welbeck Street , scoured the town in various directions . 
The largest body , and that which augmented with the greatest rapidity , was the one to which Hugh and Barnaby belonged . 
This took its way towards Moorfields , where there was a rich chapel , and in which neighbourhood several Catholic families were known to reside . 
Many of the rioters made belts of cord , of handkerchiefs , or any material they found at hand , and wore these weapons as openly as pioneers upon a field day . 
There was not the least disguise or concealment indeed , on this night , very little excitement or hurry . 
From the chapels , they tore down and took away the very altars , benches , pulpits , pews , and flooring from the dwelling houses , the very wainscoting and stairs . 
This Sunday evening's recreation they pursued like mere workmen who had a certain task to do , and did it . 
Keeping up with him , and yet not seeming to speak , Hugh muttered in his ear 'Is this better , master ? 'No , said Gashford . 
'What would you have ? said Hugh . 
'Fevers are never at their height at once . 
They must get on by degrees . 
'I would have you , said Gashford , pinching his arm with such malevolence that his nails seemed to meet in the skin 'I would have you put some meaning into your work . 
Fools ! Can you make no better bonfires than of rags and scraps ? Can you burn nothing whole ? 'A little patience , master , said Hugh . 
'Wait but a few hours , and you shall see . 
Look for a redness in the sky , to morrow night . 
With that , he fell back into his place beside Barnaby and when the secretary looked after him , both were lost in the crowd . 
Indeed , the sense of having gone too far to be forgiven , held the timid together no less than the bold . 
One other circumstance is worthy of remark and that is , that from the moment of their first outbreak at Westminster , every symptom of order or preconcerted arrangement among them vanished . 
When they divided into parties and ran to different quarters of the town , it was on the spontaneous suggestion of the moment . 
In a word , a moral plague ran through the city . 
The noise , and hurry , and excitement , had for hundreds and hundreds an attraction they had no firmness to resist . 
The contagion spread like a dread fever an infectious madness , as yet not near its height , seized on new victims every hour , and society began to tremble at their ravings . 
It was between two and three o'clock in the afternoon when Gashford looked into the lair described in the last chapter , and seeing only Barnaby and Dennis there , inquired for Hugh . 
He was out , Barnaby told him had gone out more than an hour ago and had not yet returned . 
'How do you do , Dennis ? said Gashford , nodding . 
'I am very glad your sense of hearing is so sharp , and that I succeed in making myself so intelligible , said Gashford , in his unvarying , even tone . 
'How are you , boy ? 'Hearty ! cried Barnaby , waving his hat . 
'Good day , master ! 'And good day to you , replied the secretary , nursing his leg . 
'And many good days whole years of them , I hope . 
'So would you have been , master , said Hugh , wiping his face , 'if you'd been running here as fast as I have . 
'You know the news , then ? Yes , I supposed you would have heard it . 
'News ! what news ? 'You don't ? cried Gashford , raising his eyebrows with an exclamation of surprise . 
'Dear me ! Come then I AM the first to make you acquainted with your distinguished position , after all . 
Do you see the King's Arms a top ? he smilingly asked , as he took a large paper from his pocket , unfolded it , and held it out for Hugh's inspection . 
'What's that to me ? 'Much . 
A great deal , replied the secretary . 
'I told you , the first time I saw you , that I couldn't read , said Hugh , impatiently . 
'Is that all ? cried Hugh , with an indifferent air . 
'Truly I might have known you did , said Gashford , smiling , and folding up the document again . 
'Your friend , I might have guessed indeed I did guess was sure to tell you . 
'My friend ! stammered Hugh , with an unsuccessful effort to appear surprised . 
'How dull you think me ! Shall I say his name ? 'No , said Hugh , with a hasty glance towards Dennis . 
are committed for trial , and that some very active witnesses have had the temerity to appear against them . 
Among others and here he clenched his teeth , as if he would suppress by force some violent words that rose upon his tongue and spoke very slowly . 
'Among others , a gentleman who saw the work going on in Warwick Street a Catholic gentleman one Haredale . 
Hugh would have prevented his uttering the word , but it was out already . 
Hearing the name , Barnaby turned swiftly round . 
'Duty , duty , bold Barnaby ! cried Hugh , assuming his wildest and most rapid manner , and thrusting into his hand his staff and flag which leant against the wall . 
'Mount guard without loss of time , for we are off upon our expedition . 
Sharp's the word , and strike's the action . 
Quick ! Barnaby was not proof against this bustle and despatch . 
'You might have spoiled our plans , master , said Hugh . 
'YOU , too , of all men ! 'Who would have supposed that HE would be so quick ? urged Gashford . 
'He's as quick sometimes I don't mean with his hands , for that you know , but with his head as you or any man , said Hugh . 
'Dennis , it's time we were going they're waiting for us I came to tell you . 
Reach me my stick and belt . 
Here ! Lend a hand , master . 
Fling this over my shoulder , and buckle it behind , will you ? 'Brisk as ever ! said the secretary , adjusting it for him as he desired . 
'A man need be brisk to day there's brisk work a foot . 
'There is , is there ? said Gashford . 
Have you done that , master ? How slow you are ! 'It's quite fast now , said Gashford , rising . 
And now you are going , eh ? 'Now we are going , master ! Hugh replied . 
'Any parting words ? 'Oh dear , no , said Gashford sweetly . 
'None ! 'You're sure ? cried Hugh , nudging the grinning Dennis . 
'Quite sure , eh , Muster Gashford ? chuckled the hangman . 
Makes it HIS master he deserves no better . 
If you ever acted like staunch fellows , you will do so to day . 
When they had been gone a little time , Gashford followed . 
But at length the roar of voices was heard in the neighbouring fields , and soon afterwards they came thronging past , in a great body . 
The second gave out that they were bound for Wapping , to destroy a chapel the third , that their place of destination was East Smithfield , and their object the same . 
All this was done in broad , bright , summer day . 
There still remained the fourth body , and for that the secretary looked with a most intense eagerness . 
At last it came up . 
They halted and cheered , as the others had done but when they moved again , they did not , like them , proclaim what design they had . 
Hugh merely raised his hat upon the bludgeon he carried , and glancing at a spectator on the opposite side of the way , was gone . 
Gashford followed the direction of his glance instinctively , and saw , standing on the pavement , and wearing the blue cockade , Sir John Chester . 
For all that , and quick and dexterous as he was , Gashford had seen him recognise Hugh with the air of a patron . 
He had no longer any eyes for the crowd , but fixed his keen regards upon Sir John . 
Sir John's hat was off again immediately . 
The secretary smiled , but he had other thoughts to dwell upon , and soon dismissed the topic . 
'Nothing but gloom in that direction , still ! he muttered restlessly . 
You're no fool , Johnny . 
'You haven't got it , sir ? repeated Mr Willet , eyeing him from top to toe . 
'You haven't got it , sir ? You HAVE got it , sir . 
'How do you know ? 'retorted John with great dignity . 
'You're a contradicting pretty free , you are , sir . 
How do YOU know which it is ? I'm not aware I ever told you , sir . 
Mr Parkes , finding himself in the position of having got into metaphysics without exactly seeing his way out of them , stammered forth an apology and retreated from the argument . 
Thereupon Messrs Cobb and Daisy laughed , and nodded , and Parkes was looked upon as thoroughly and effectually put down . 
'Do you suppose if all this was true , that Mr Haredale would be constantly away from home , as he is ? said John , after another silence . 
Besides , you know , some of the Catholic gentlefolks have actually sent trinkets and suchlike down here for safety at least , so the story goes . 
'The story goes ! said Mr Willet testily . 
The story goes that you saw a ghost last March . 
So shake hands , Johnny , and good night . 
'I shall shake hands , returned the landlord , putting his into his pockets , 'with no man as goes to London on such nonsensical errands . 
Now it grew louder , fainter now , and now it altogether died away . 
Presently , it came again , subsided , came once more , grew louder , fainter swelled into a roar . 
It was on the road , and varied with its windings . 
All at once it burst into a distinct sound the voices , and the tramping feet of many men . 
These two females did afterwards depone that Mr Willet in his consternation uttered but one word , and called that up the stairs in a stentorian voice , six distinct times . 
He had not to wait long . 
'Halloa ! cried a voice he knew , as the man who spoke came cleaving through the throng . 
'Where is he ? Give him to me . 
How now , old Jack ! Ha ha ha ! Mr Willet looked at him , and saw it was Hugh but he said nothing , and thought nothing . 
'These lads are thirsty and must drink ! cried Hugh , thrusting him back towards the house . 
'Bustle , Jack , bustle . 
Then turning to John , he added , 'Pay ! Why , nobody . 
At length the band began to reassemble outside the house , and to call to those within , to join them , for they were losing time . 
All these propositions being overruled , it was concluded , at last , to bind him in his chair , and the word was passed for Dennis . 
'Look'ee here , Jack ! said Hugh , striding up to him 'We are going to tie you , hand and foot , but otherwise you won't be hurt . 
D'ye hear ? John Willet looked at another man , as if he didn't know which was the speaker , and muttered something about an ordinary every Sunday at two o'clock . 
'You won't be hurt I tell you , Jack do you hear me ? roared Hugh , impressing the assurance upon him by means of a heavy blow on the back . 
'He's so dead scared , he's woolgathering , I think . 
Give him a drop of something to drink here . 
Hand over , one of you . 
A glass of liquor being passed forward , Hugh poured the contents down old John's throat . 
'Come ! Be alive here ! cried Hugh , stamping his foot upon the ground . 
'Move , man , can't you ! cried Hugh , with another impatient stamp of his foot . 
'What can't ? Hugh demanded . 
'What can't ! retorted Dennis . 
'Why , the old man can't . 
'Why , you weren't going to hang him ! cried Hugh . 
'No , brother ? returned the hangman with a stare . 
Hugh consenting , be achieved it in a twinkling . 
'There , he said , looking mournfully at John Willet , who displayed no more emotion in his bonds than he had shown out of them . 
'That's what I call pretty and workmanlike . 
He's quite a picter now . 
, rejected this proposition for the second time , and gave the word 'Forward ! which was echoed by a hundred voices from without . 
'To the Warren ! shouted Dennis as he ran out , followed by the rest . 
'A witness's house , my lads ! A loud yell followed , and the whole throng hurried off , mad for pillage and destruction . 
He looked round upon the room which had been for years , and was within an hour ago , the pride of his heart and not a muscle of his face was moved . 
John saw this desolation , and yet saw it not . 
He was perfectly contented to sit there , staring at it , and felt no more indignation or discomfort in his bonds than if they had been robes of honour . 
So far as he was personally concerned , old Time lay snoring , and the world stood still . 
But quiet or noisy , it was all one to John . 
If a train of heavy artillery could have come up and commenced ball practice outside the window , it would have been all the same to him . 
He was a long way beyond surprise . 
A ghost couldn't have overtaken him . 
By and by he heard a footstep a hurried , and yet cautious footstep coming on towards the house . 
It stopped , advanced again , then seemed to go quite round it . 
Having done that , it came beneath the window , and a head looked in . 
It was strongly relieved against the darkness outside by the glare of the guttering candles . 
A pale , worn , withered face the eyes but that was owing to its gaunt condition unnaturally large and bright the hair , a grizzled black . 
After a moment's pause , the man got in at the window . 
John was not at all surprised at this , either . 
The man wore a large , dark , faded cloak , and a slouched hat he walked up close to John , and looked at him . 
John returned the compliment with interest . 
'How long have you been sitting thus ? said the man . 
John considered , but nothing came of it . 
'You would do well to speak , said the man 'you may keep a whole skin , though you have nothing else left that can be hurt . 
'You lie ! said the man angrily , and with a threatening gesture . 
John looked after him without so much as a twitch in a single nerve of his face . 
He therefore replied , 'Locked up . 
'Well for them if they remain quiet , and well for you if you do the like , said the man . 
'Now show me the way the party went . 
This time Mr Willet indicated it correctly . 
They would have had a beginning and an end , but here all space was full . 
The one pursuing voice was everywhere it sounded in the earth , the air shook the long grass , and howled among the trembling trees . 
The knell was at his heart . 
No work of man had ever voice like that which sounded there , and warned him that it cried unceasingly to Heaven . 
Its ringing summoned phantoms from their graves . 
When they left the Maypole , the rioters formed into a solid body , and advanced at a quick pace towards the Warren . 
Very little conference was needed , when all were bent upon one desperate purpose , infuriated with liquor , and flushed with successful riot . 
axes , poles , and crowbars , struggled into the foremost rank , ready to beset the doors and windows . 
Whirling these about their heads they raised a loud shout , and fell to work upon the doors and windows . 
Almost at the same moment , a dozen other points were forced , and at every one the crowd poured in like water . 
A few armed servant men were posted in the hall , and when the rioters forced an entrance there , they fired some half a dozen shots . 
, and to have been afterwards burnt in the flames . 
The besiegers being now in complete possession of the house , spread themselves over it from garret to cellar , and plied their demon labours fiercely . 
And who were they ? The alarm bell rang and it was pulled by no faint or hesitating hands for a long time but not a soul was seen . 
Where was Hugh ! 'Here ! he hoarsely cried , appearing from the darkness out of breath , and blackened with the smoke . 
'We have done all we can the fire is burning itself out and even the corners where it hasn't spread , are nothing but heaps of ruins . 
It was not an easy task to draw off such a throng . 
If Bedlam gates had been flung wide open , there would not have issued forth such maniacs as the frenzy of that night had made . 
There were men who cast their lighted torches in the air , and suffered them to fall upon their heads and faces , blistering the skin with deep unseemly burns . 
But of all the howling throng not one learnt mercy from , or sickened at , these sights nor was the fierce , besotted , senseless rage of one man glutted . 
Slowly , and in small clusters , with hoarse hurrahs and repetitions of their usual cry , the assembly dropped away . 
Silence indeed ! The glare of the flames had sunk into a fitful , flashing light and the gentle stars , invisible till now , looked down upon the blackening heap . 
A dull smoke hung upon the ruin , as though to hide it from those eyes of Heaven and the wind forbore to move it . 
Nothing left but a dull and dreary blank a smouldering heap of dust and ashes the silence and solitude of utter desolation . 
The answers went far beyond any intelligence that had spread to quiet Chigwell . 
So they pushed on quicker , as men do who are excited by portentous news and ruminating on what they had heard , spoke little to each other . 
'My mind misgives me , said the horseman , 'or I know from what far building those flames come . 
Don't stand aghast , my good fellow . 
I saw them pass , and know what kind of men they are . 
'So be it ! said the horseman , looking intently towards the fire , and not at him who spoke . 
'But sir sir , cried the man , grasping at his rein more tightly yet , 'if you do go on , wear the blue riband . 
Here , sir , he added , taking one from his own hat , 'it's necessity , not choice , that makes me wear it it's love of life and home , sir . 
Wear it for this one night , sir only for this one night . 
'Do ! cried the three friends , pressing round his horse . 
'Mr Haredale worthy sir good gentleman pray be persuaded . 
'Who's that ? cried Mr Haredale , stooping down to look . 
'Did I hear Daisy's voice ? 'You did , sir , cried the little man . 
'Do be persuaded , sir . 
This gentleman says very true . 
Your life may hang upon it . 
'Are you , said Mr Haredale abruptly , 'afraid to come with me ? 'I , sir ? N n no . 
'Put that riband in your hat . 
If we meet the rioters , swear that I took you prisoner for wearing it . 
Up here behind me quick ! Clasp me tight round the body , and fear nothing . 
In an instant they were riding away , at full gallop , in a dense cloud of dust , and speeding on , like hunters in a dream . 
Once he said in a low voice , 'It is my house , but that was the only time he spoke . 
'Down for one moment for but one moment , said Mr Haredale , helping Daisy to the ground , and following himself . 
'Willet Willet where are my niece and servants Willet ! Crying to him distractedly , he rushed into the bar . 
The landlord bound and fastened to his chair the place dismantled , stripped , and pulled about his ears nobody could have taken shelter here . 
He covered his face with his hands for a moment , and turned away his head . 
'You know us , don't you , Johnny ? said the little clerk , rapping himself on the breast . 
You're all right now , an't you ? Say you're all right , Johnny . 
'All right ? pondered Mr Willet , as if that were a matter entirely between himself and his conscience . 
'No , no , no , don't say that , Johnny , whimpered his little friend . 
'It's very , very bad , but not quite so bad as that . 
If it were , I am in no condition to do so . 
Before I leave you , tell me one thing , and try to tell me plainly , I implore you . 
Have you seen , or heard of Emma ? 'No ! said Mr Willet . 
I could have told you what name was on the plate , if he had brought his coffin with him , and left it behind . 
If he didn't , it don't signify . 
He stopped for an instant to look upon its smoking walls , and at the stars that shone through roof and floor upon the heap of crumbling ashes . 
He looked into every doorway and gap in the wall retraced his steps at every rustling of the air among the leaves and searched in every shadowed nook with outstretched hands . 
After a short pause , Mr Haredale shouted twice or thrice . 
Then cried aloud , 'Is there any one in hiding here , who knows my voice ! There is nothing to fear now . 
They were standing near the foot of the turret , where the alarm bell hung . 
The fire had raged there , and the floors had been sawn , and hewn , and beaten down , besides . 
It was open to the night but a part of the staircase still remained , winding upward from a great mound of dust and cinders . 
He covered the little man's mouth with his hand , and looked again . 
Instantly , with kindling eyes , he bade him on his life keep still , and neither speak nor move . 
Then holding his breath , and stooping down , he stole into the turret , with his drawn sword in his hand , and disappeared . 
He stood rooted to the spot and scarcely venturing to breathe , looked up with mingled fear and wonder . 
Again the ashes slipped and rolled very , very softly again and then again , as though they crumbled underneath the tread of a stealthy foot . 
And now a figure was dimly visible climbing very softly and often stopping to look down now it pursued its difficult way and now it was hidden from the view again . 
It emerged once more , into the shadowy and uncertain light higher now , but not much , for the way was steep and toilsome , and its progress very slow . 
What phantom of the brain did he pursue and why did he look down so constantly ? He knew he was alone . 
Surely his mind was not affected by that night's loss and agony . 
He was not about to throw himself headlong from the summit of the tottering wall . 
Solomon turned sick , and clasped his hands . 
His limbs trembled beneath him , and a cold sweat broke out upon his pallid face . 
If he complied with Mr Haredale's last injunction now , it was because he had not the power to speak or move . 
He strained his gaze , and fixed it on a patch of moonlight , into which , if he continued to ascend , he must soon emerge . 
When he appeared there , he would try to call to him . 
Again the ashes slipped and crumbled some stones rolled down , and fell with a dull , heavy sound upon the ground below . 
He kept his eyes upon the piece of moonlight . 
The figure was coming on , for its shadow was already thrown upon the wall . 
'Villain ! cried Mr Haredale , in a terrible voice for it was he . 
'Dead and buried , as all men supposed through your infernal arts , but reserved by Heaven for this at last at last I have you . 
After the whirl of noise and riot in which the last two days had been passed , the pleasures of solitude and peace were enhanced a thousandfold . 
He felt quite happy and as he leaned upon his staff and mused , a bright smile overspread his face , and none but cheerful visions floated into his brain . 
Had he no thoughts of her , whose sole delight he was , and whom he had unconsciously plunged in such bitter sorrow and such deep affliction ? Oh , yes . 
She was at the heart of all his cheerful hopes and proud reflections . 
It was she whom all this honour and distinction were to gladden the joy and profit were for her . 
What delight it gave her to hear of the bravery of her poor boy ! Ah ! He would have known that , without Hugh's telling him . 
To this end , he sat down on the ground before the door , and putting his staff across his knees in case of alarm or surprise , summoned Grip to dinner . 
'Well said , Grip ! cried his master , as he fed him with the daintiest bits . 
'Gordon for ever , Grip ! cried Barnaby . 
'Good day ! said Lord George , not reining in his horse until he was close beside him . 
'Well ! 'All quiet , sir , all safe ! cried Barnaby . 
'The rest are away they went by that path that one . 
A grand party ! 'Ay ? said Lord George , looking thoughtfully at him . 
'And you ? 'Oh ! They left me here to watch to mount guard to keep everything secure till they come back . 
I'll do it , sir , for your sake . 
You're a good gentleman a kind gentleman ay , you are . 
'Why , don't you know ! retorted Barnaby , with a wondering laugh . 
'Not know what HE is ! A bird , to be sure . 
My bird my friend Grip . 
'A devil , a kettle , a Grip , a Polly , a Protestant , no Popery ! cried the raven . 
Lord George , biting his nails in a discomfited manner , regarded Barnaby for some time in silence then beckoning to his servant , said 'Come hither , John . 
John Grueby touched his hat , and came . 
'Have you ever seen this young man before ? his master asked in a low voice . 
'Twice , my lord , said John . 
'I saw him in the crowd last night and Saturday . 
'Did did it seem to you that his manner was at all wild or strange ? Lord George demanded , faltering . 
'Mad , said John , with emphatic brevity . 
'And why do you think him mad , sir ? said his master , speaking in a peevish tone . 
'Don't use that word too freely . 
'Do you say this to my face ? cried his master , turning sharply upon him . 
'To any man , my lord , who asks me , answered John . 
'You are an ill conditioned , most ungrateful fellow , said Lord George 'a spy , for anything I know . 
Mr Gashford is perfectly correct , as I might have felt convinced he was . 
I have done wrong to retain you in my service . 
It is a tacit insult to him as my choice and confidential friend to do so , remembering the cause you sided with , on the day he was maligned at Westminster . 
You will leave me to night nay , as soon as we reach home . 
'If it comes to that , I say so too , my lord . 
Let Mr Gashford have his will . 
As to my being a spy , my lord , you know me better than to believe it , I am sure . 
I don't know much about causes . 
My cause is the cause of one man against two hundred and I hope it always will be . 
'You have said quite enough , returned Lord George , motioning him to go back . 
'I desire to hear no more . 
'If you'll let me have another word , my lord , returned John Grueby , 'I'd give this silly fellow a caution not to stay here by himself . 
The proclamation is in a good many hands already , and it's well known that he was concerned in the business it relates to . 
He had better get to a place of safety if he can , poor creature . 
'You hear what this man says ? cried Lord George , addressing Barnaby , who had looked on and wondered while this dialogue passed . 
'He thinks you may be afraid to remain upon your post , and are kept here perhaps against your will . 
And I think you had better go from here , as fast as you can . 
'He's a coward , Grip , a coward ! cried Barnaby , putting the raven on the ground , and shouldering his staff . 
THIS a madman ! You have said well , very well . 
I am proud to be the leader of such men as you . 
Bamaby's heart swelled within his bosom as he heard these words . 
The sunshine which prevailed around was in his mind . 
He had but one desire ungratified . 
There was a freedom and freshness in the sound and in the time , which chimed exactly with his mood . 
He was happier than ever . 
As they drew nearer , they became more earnest in their gestures and they were no sooner within hearing , than the foremost among them cried that the soldiers were coming up . 
At these words , Barnaby furled his flag , and tied it round the pole . 
His heart beat high while he did so , but he had no more fear or thought of retreating than the pole itself . 
The friendly stragglers hurried past him , after giving him notice of his danger , and quickly passed into the house , where the utmost confusion immediately prevailed . 
Finding that he was not to be persuaded , they took care of themselves and leaving the place with only one old woman in it , speedily withdrew . 
They advanced steadily neither quickening their pace as they came nearer , nor raising any cry , nor showing the least emotion or anxiety . 
For all that , he stood his ground not a whit the less resolutely , and looked on undismayed . 
Presently , they marched into the yard , and halted . 
The commanding officer despatched a messenger to the horsemen , one of whom came riding back . 
Some words passed between them , and they glanced at Barnaby who well remembered the man he had unhorsed at Westminster , and saw him now before his eyes . 
The man being speedily dismissed , saluted , and rode back to his comrades , who were drawn up apart at a short distance . 
The officer then gave the word to prime and load . 
The horsemen remained drawn up by themselves as before . 
The two gentlemen in private clothes who had kept aloof , now rode forward , one on either side the officer . 
The proclamation having been produced and read by one of them , the officer called on Barnaby to surrender . 
He made no answer , but stepping within the door , before which he had kept guard , held his pole crosswise to protect it . 
In the midst of a profound silence , he was again called upon to yield . 
Still he offered no reply . 
He caught the eye of one in the centre , and resolved to hew that fellow down , though he died for it . 
Again there was a dead silence , and again the same voice called upon him to deliver himself up . 
Next moment he was back in the stable , dealing blows about him like a madman . 
An exclamation of surprise from the officer recalled him , in some degree , to himself . 
The hole had been recklessly filled to the brim , and was merely sprinkled with earth . 
Golden cups , spoons , candlesticks , coined guineas all the riches were revealed . 
They brought spades and a sack dug up everything that was hidden there and carried away more than two men could lift . 
They handcuffed him and bound his arms , searched him , and took away all he had . 
Nobody questioned or reproached him , or seemed to have much curiosity about him . 
The two men he had stunned , were carried off by their companions in the same business like way in which everything else was done . 
Finally , he was left under a guard of four soldiers with fixed bayonets , while the officer directed in person the search of the house and the other buildings connected with it . 
The soldiers formed again in the yard he was marched out , with his guard about him and ordered to fall in , where a space was left . 
The others closed up all round , and so they moved away , with the prisoner in the centre . 
The very noises of the streets seemed muffled and subdued and the air came stale and hot upon him , like the sickly breath of an oven . 
After remaining here just long enough to note these things , he was marched out again , and conveyed across the parade ground to another portion of the building . 
Perhaps a man never sees so much at a glance as when he is in a situation of extremity . 
But as he was taken handcuffed across the gravelled area , nothing escaped his notice . 
Into this dungeon he was walked straightway and having locked him up there , and placed a sentry over him , they left him to his meditations . 
The cell , or black hole , for it had those words painted on the door , was very dark , and having recently accommodated a drunken deserter , by no means clean . 
There was a kind of portico or colonnade outside , and this obstructed even the little light that at the best could have found its way through the small apertures in the door . 
'True enough ! I'll tell you what . 
Call me out to stop these riots give me the needful authority , and half a dozen rounds of ball cartridge 'Ay ! said the other voice . 
'That's all very well , but they won't give the needful authority . 
'With all my heart , said his friend . 
'Where's the use of a magistrate ? returned the other voice . 
'What's a magistrate in this case , but an impertinent , unnecessary , unconstitutional sort of interference ? Here's a proclamation . 
Here's a man referred to in that proclamation . 
Here's proof against him , and a witness on the spot . 
Damme ! Take him out and shoot him , sir . 
Who wants a magistrate ? 'When does he go before Sir John Fielding ? asked the man who had spoken first . 
'To night at eight o'clock , returned the other . 
The magistrate commits him to Newgate . 
Our people take him to Newgate . 
The rioters pelt our people . 
Our people retire before the rioters . 
Stones are thrown , insults are offered , not a shot's fired . 
Why ? Because of the magistrates . 
The one who condemned the civil power in such strong terms , was a serjeant engaged just then , as the streaming ribands in his cap announced , on the recruiting service . 
He stood leaning sideways against a pillar nearly opposite the door , and as he growled to himself , drew figures on the pavement with his cane . 
The other man had his back towards the dungeon , and Barnaby could only see his form . 
To judge from that , he was a gallant , manly , handsome fellow , but he had lost his left arm . 
It had been taken off between the elbow and the shoulder , and his empty coat sleeve hung across his breast . 
It was probably this circumstance which gave him an interest beyond any that his companion could boast of , and attracted Barnaby's attention . 
There was something soldierly in his bearing , and he wore a jaunty cap and jacket . 
Perhaps he had been in the service at one time or other . 
If he had , it could not have been very long ago , for he was but a young fellow now . 
'Well , well , he said thoughtfully 'let the fault be where it may , it makes a man sorrowful to come back to old England , and see her in this condition . 
'I suppose the pigs will join 'em next , said the serjeant , with an imprecation on the rioters , 'now that the birds have set 'em the example . 
'The birds ! repeated Tom Green . 
'Ah birds , said the serjeant testily 'that's English , an't it ? 'I don't know what you mean . 
'Go to the guard house , and see . 
The devil's loose in London somewhere . 
Damme if I wouldn't twist his neck round , on the chance , if I had MY way . 
The young man had taken two or three steps away , as if to go and see this creature , when he was arrested by the voice of Barnaby . 
'It's mine , he called out , half laughing and half weeping 'my pet , my friend Grip . 
Ha ha ha ! Don't hurt him , he has done no harm . 
I taught him it's my fault . 
Let me have him , if you please . 
He's the only friend I have left now . 
You wouldn't hurt a bird , I'm sure . 
You're a brave soldier , sir , and wouldn't harm a woman or a child no , no , nor a poor bird , I'm certain . 
This latter adjuration was addressed to the serjeant , whom Barnaby judged from his red coat to be high in office , and able to seal Grip's destiny by a word . 
'You talk boldly to a caged man , said Barnaby , in anger . 
He had had some fancy at first , that the one armed man would help him , or would give him a kind word in answer . 
He hardly knew why , but he hoped and thought so . 
The young fellow had stopped when he called out , and checking himself in the very act of turning round , stood listening to every word he said . 
Perhaps he built his feeble trust on this perhaps on his being young , and having a frank and honest manner . 
However that might be , he built on sand . 
The other went away directly he had finished speaking , and neither answered him , nor returned . 
They were all against him here he might have known as much . 
Good bye , old Grip , good bye ! After some time , they came and unlocked the door , and called to him to come out . 
He rose directly , and complied , for he would not have THEM think he was subdued or frightened . 
He walked out like a man , and looked from face to face . 
None of them returned his gaze or seemed to notice it . 
They then closed round him as before , and marched him off again . 
In the same unbroken order they arrived at Bow Street , followed and beset on all sides by a crowd which was continually increasing . 
Here he was placed before a blind gentleman , and asked if he wished to say anything . 
How often and how eagerly he listened for the voice of Hugh ! There was not a voice he knew among them all . 
This was the last thing he saw with any distinctness , for directly afterwards he was tossed about , and beaten to and fro , as though in a tempestuous sea . 
But go where he would , there were the same guards about him . 
Twice or thrice he was thrown down , and so were they but even then , he could not elude their vigilance for a moment . 
They were up again , and had closed about him , before he , with his wrists so tightly bound , could scramble to his feet . 
Next moment , everything was dark and gloomy , and he was standing in the prison lobby the centre of a group of men . 
A smith was speedily in attendance , who riveted upon him a set of heavy irons . 
They were gathered round an old post chaise or chariot , driven by one of themselves , who sat postilion wise upon the near horse . 
The blinds were drawn up , and Mr Tappertit and Dennis kept guard at the two windows . 
'Well ! said Simon , in a low voice 'is all right ? 'Right enough , replied Hugh , in the same tone . 
'They're dispersing now had begun before I came away . 
'And is the coast clear ? 'Clear enough before our men , I take it , said Hugh . 
'There are not many who , knowing of their work over yonder , will want to meddle with 'em to night . 
Who's got some drink here ? Everybody had some plunder from the cellar half a dozen flasks and bottles were offered directly . 
He selected the largest , and putting it to his mouth , sent the wine gurgling down his throat . 
Having emptied it , he threw it down , and stretched out his hand for another , which he emptied likewise , at a draught . 
Another was given him , and this he half emptied too . 
Reserving what remained to finish with , he asked 'Have you got anything to eat , any of you ? I'm as ravenous as a hungry wolf . 
Which of you was in the larder come ? 'I was , brother , said Dennis , pulling off his hat , and fumbling in the crown . 
'There's a matter of cold venison pasty somewhere or another here , if that'll do . 
'Do ! cried Hugh , seating himself on the pathway . 
'I should recommend you to swallow a little fire every day , about an hour afore dinner , brother , said Dennis , after a pause . 
'It seems to agree with you , and to stimulate your appetite . 
'Keep order , there , will you ? said Simon Tappertit . 
'And what if they are down upon us ! retorted Hugh . 
'Who cares ? Who's afraid ? Let 'em come , I say , let 'em come . 
The more , the merrier . 
Give me bold Barnaby at my side , and we two will settle the military , without troubling any of you . 
Barnaby's the man for the military . 
'Now then , he cried , 'I'm ready . 
There are brave birds inside this cage , eh ? Delicate birds , tender , loving , little doves . 
You should stab me and welcome , so that it pleased you , and you had to cure me afterwards . 
I love to see you proud and scornful . 
If they did this when they came into the more frequented ways , she was certain she was quite certain they must be released . 
When they at last entered London , by a suburb with which they were wholly unacquainted , it was past midnight , and the streets were dark and empty . 
Nor was this the worst , for the carriage stopping in a lonely spot , Hugh suddenly opened the door , jumped in , and took his seat between them . 
It was in vain they cried for help . 
He put his arm about the neck of each , and swore to stifle them with kisses if they were not as silent as the grave . 
'I come here to keep you quiet , he said , 'and that's the means I shall take . 
So don't be quiet , pretty mistresses make a noise do and I shall like it all the better . 
that this was mere conjecture . 
They shrunk from his touch , each into the farthest corner of the carriage but shrink as Dolly would , his arm encircled her waist , and held her fast . 
'Lift this one out , said Hugh to the man who opened the door , as he took Miss Haredale's hand , and felt how heavily it fell . 
'So much the better , growled Dennis it was that amiable gentleman . 
I always like 'em to faint , unless they're very tender and composed . 
'Can you take her by yourself ? asked Hugh . 
'I don't know till I try . 
I ought to be able to I've lifted up a good many in my time , said the hangman . 
'Up then ! She's no small weight , brother none of these here fine gals are . 
Up again ! Now we have her . 
Having by this time hoisted the young lady into his arms , he staggered off with his burden . 
'Look ye , pretty bird , said Hugh , drawing Dolly towards him . 
'Remember what I told you a kiss for every cry . 
Scream , if you love me , darling . 
Pretty mistress , only once , if you love me . 
Poor Dolly ! Do what she would , she only looked the better for it , and tempted them the more . 
'Why have you brought us here ? said Emma . 
'Are we to be murdered ? 'Murdered ! cried Dennis , sitting down upon a stool , and regarding her with great favour . 
And here he exchanged a grin with Hugh , who removed his eyes from Dolly for the purpose . 
'No , no , said Dennis , 'there'll be no murdering , my pets . 
'You are an older man than your companion , sir , said Emma , trembling . 
'Have you no pity for us ? Do you not consider that we are women ? 'I do indeed , my dear , retorted Dennis . 
'It would be very hard not to , with two such specimens afore my eyes . 
Ha ha ! Oh yes , I consider that . 
We all consider that , miss . 
He shook his head waggishly , leered at Hugh again , and laughed very much , as if he had said a noble thing , and rather thought he was coming out . 
'There'll be no murdering , my dear . 
Not a bit on it . 
There's a dignified and equal thing a beautiful thing ! But we've no security for its lasting . 
Now that they've begun to favour these here Papists , I shouldn't wonder if they went and altered even THAT , one of these days . 
Upon my soul , I shouldn't . 
The subject , perhaps from being of too exclusive and professional a nature , failed to interest Hugh as much as his friend had anticipated . 
'I knew it , I was sure of it ! cried Dolly . 
'My dear father's at the door . 
Thank God , thank God ! Bless you , Sim . 
'Miss Haredale , said Sim , after a very awkward silence , 'I hope you're as comfortable as circumstances will permit of . 
Dolly Varden , my darling my own , my lovely one I hope YOU'RE pretty comfortable likewise . 
Poor little Dolly ! She saw how it was hid her face in her hands and sobbed more bitterly than ever . 
You behold in me , not a private individual , but a public character not a mender of locks , but a healer of the wounds of his unhappy country . 
Behold in me , your husband . 
Yes , beautiful Dolly charmer enslaver S. Tappertit is all your own ! As he said these words he advanced towards her . 
Dolly retreated till she could go no farther , and then sank down upon the floor . 
Hugh had never admired her half so much as at that moment . 
'She's in an excited state to night , said Simon , as he smoothed his rumpled feathers , 'and don't know when she's well off . 
Let her be by herself till to morrow , and that'll bring her down a little . 
Carry her into the next house ! Hugh had her in his arms directly . 
'They shall remain here together till to morrow , said Simon , who had now quite recovered his dignity 'till to morrow . 
Come away ! 'Ay ! cried Hugh . 
Ha ha ha ! 'What are you laughing at ? demanded Simon sternly . 
You'll hear both of you more of our intentions to morrow . 
With this last caution , which was true enough , he turned to the door , followed by Hugh and Dennis . 
'I say , growled Dennis , as they walked away in company , 'that's a dainty pair . 
Muster Gashford's one is as handsome as the other , eh ? 'Hush ! said Hugh , hastily . 
, when he breaks it out to her that's all , said Dennis . 
'She's one of them fine , black eyed , proud gals , as I wouldn't trust at such times with a knife too near 'em . 
I've seen some of that sort , afore now . 
'How should I know , brother ? answered Dennis . 
'SHE never said not she . 
'You have done well to day . 
So have you , Dennis . 
There's no young woman YOU want to carry off , is there ? 'N no , returned that gentleman , stroking his grizzly beard , which was some two inches long . 
'None in partickler , I think . 
'Very good , said Sim 'then we'll find some other way of making it up to you . 
As to you , old boy' he turned to Hugh 'you shall have Miggs within three days . 
I pass my word for it . 
He happened by great good luck to have roared and shouted himself into silence by this time . 
'Stop ! and why ? said Hugh . 
the house was filled with constables and soldiers having been surprised that afternoon . 
The inmates had fled or been taken into custody , he could not say which . 
He had prevented a great many people from approaching nearer , and he believed they had gone to the markets and such places to pass the night . 
He had seen the distant fires , but they were all out now . 
He had heard the people who passed and repassed , speaking of them too , and could report that the prevailing opinion was one of apprehension and dismay . 
He had not heard a word of Barnaby didn't even know his name but it had been said in his hearing that some man had been taken and carried off to Newgate . 
Whether this was true or false , he could not affirm . 
The three took counsel together , on hearing this , and debated what it might be best to do . 
Fleet Market , at that time , was a long irregular row of wooden sheds and penthouses , occupying the centre of what is now called Farringdon Street . 
The air was perfumed with the stench of rotten leaves and faded fruit the refuse of the butchers' stalls , and offal and garbage of a hundred kinds . 
It was indispensable to most public conveniences in those days , that they should be public nuisances likewise and Fleet Market maintained the principle to admiration . 
Hugh and his two friends being known to most of these men , were received with signal marks of approbation , and inducted into the most honourable seats . 
The room door was closed and fastened to keep intruders at a distance , and then they proceeded to exchange news . 
'The soldiers have taken possession of The Boot , I hear , said Hugh . 
'We left a man on guard there to day , said Hugh , looking round him , 'who is not here . 
You know who it is Barnaby , who brought the soldier down , at Westminster . 
'He is but one man , cried Hugh to those who kept the door 'let him come in . 
'Ay , ay ! muttered the others . 
The door was accordingly unlocked and opened . 
'Here he is , replied the person he inquired for . 
What do you want with me ? 'I have a message for you , said the man . 
'What of him ? Did he send the message ? 'Yes . 
He's in one of the strong cells in Newgate . 
He defended himself as well as he could , but was overpowered by numbers . 
'When did you see him ? asked Hugh , hastily . 
'On his way to prison , where he was taken by a party of soldiers . 
They took a by road , and not the one we expected . 
I was one of the few who tried to rescue him , and he called to me , and told me to tell Hugh where he was . 
We made a good struggle , though it failed . 
Look here ! He pointed to his dress and to his bandaged head , and still panting for breath , glanced round the room then faced towards Hugh again . 
'I know you by sight , he said , 'for I was in the crowd on Friday , and on Saturday , and yesterday , but I didn't know your name . 
You're a bold fellow , I know . 
He fought like a lion tonight , but it was of no use . 
I did my best , considering that I want this limb . 
If he had any such apprehension , however , he was speedily reassured by the demeanour of all present . 
None thought of the bearer of the tidings . 
He was lost in the news he brought . 
Oaths , threats , and execrations , were vented on all sides . 
One man cried in a loud voice , 'Who'll follow me to Newgate ! and there was a loud shout and general rush towards the door . 
'Not that jail alone , cried Hugh , 'but every jail in London . 
They shall have no place to put their prisoners in . 
We'll burn them all down make bonfires of them every one ! Here ! he cried , catching at the hangman's hand . 
'Let all who're men here , join with us . 
Barnaby out of jail , and not a jail left standing ! Who joins ? Every man there . 
And they swore a great oath to release their friends from Newgate next night to force the doors and burn the jail or perish in the fire themselves . 
Directing the sexton to lead the horse , he walked close by the murderer's side , and in this order they reached the village about the middle of the night . 
The people were all awake and up , for they were fearful of being burnt in their beds , and sought to comfort and assure each other by watching in company . 
A few of the stoutest hearted were armed and gathered in a body on the green . 
But not a man among them dared to help him by so much as the motion of a finger . 
Their threats extended to their lives and all they possessed . 
They were assembled for their own protection , and could not endanger themselves by lending any aid to him . 
This was not acceded to without some difficulty , but in the end they told him to do what he would , and go away from them in heaven's name . 
Mr Haredale shook him warmly by the hand , and thanked him from his heart . 
In five minutes' time the chaise was ready , and this good scapegrace in his saddle . 
The consternation was so extreme that even the horses which had escaped the flames at the Warren , could find no friends to shelter them . 
Nor was this feeling confined to such small places , where the people were timid , ignorant , and unprotected . 
It was the same , they heard , with the public conveyances . 
The panic was so great that the mails and stage coaches were afraid to carry passengers who professed the obnoxious religion . 
But notwithstanding these discouraging accounts they went on , and reached the Mansion House soon after sunrise . 
This is the sixth time I have been here . 
I was here five times yesterday . 
My house is threatened with destruction . 
It is to be burned down to night , and was to have been last night , but they had other business on their hands . 
Pray let me get an answer . 
'My good sir , returned Mr Haredale , shaking his head , 'my house is burned to the ground . 
But heaven forbid that yours should be . 
Be brief , in mercy to me . 
'Now , you hear this , my lord ? said the old gentleman , calling up the stairs , to where the skirt of a dressing gown fluttered on the landing place . 
'Here is a gentleman here , whose house was actually burnt down last night . 
'Dear me , dear me , replied a testy voice , 'I am very sorry for it , but what am I to do ? I can't build it up again . 
The chief magistrate of the city can't go and be a rebuilding of people's houses , my good sir . 
'You are disrespectable , sir , said the Lord Mayor 'leastways , disrespectful I mean . 
'Disrespectful , my lord ! returned the old gentleman . 
'I was respectful five times yesterday . 
I can't be respectful for ever . 
Men can't stand on being respectful when their houses are going to be burnt over their heads , with them in 'em . 
'What the devil's the good of an alderman ? returned the choleric old gentleman . 
To awe the crowd , sir , said the Lord Mayor . 
There are great people at the bottom of these riots . 
Oh dear me , what a thing it is to be a public character ! You must look in again in the course of the day . 
Oh dear ! well ! we'll see about it . 
'Stop ! cried Mr Haredale , pressing the door open as the porter strove to shut it , and speaking rapidly , 'My Lord Mayor , I beg you not to go away . 
I have a man here , who committed a murder eight and twenty years ago . 
Half a dozen words from me , on oath , will justify you in committing him to prison for re examination . 
I only seek , just now , to have him consigned to a place of safety . 
The least delay may involve his being rescued by the rioters . 
'Oh dear me ! cried the Lord Mayor . 
'God bless my soul and body oh Lor ! well I ! there are great people at the bottom of these riots , you know . 
Every second's delay on your part loosens this man's bloody hands again , and leads to his escape . 
My lord , I charge you hear me , and despatch this matter on the instant . 
'Oh dear me ! cried the chief magistrate 'these an't business hours , you know I wonder at you how ungentlemanly it is of you you mustn't you really mustn't . 
And I suppose you are a Catholic too ? 'I am , said Mr Haredale . 
'God bless my soul , I believe people turn Catholics a'purpose to vex and worrit me , cried the Lord Mayor . 
'I wish you wouldn't come here they'll be setting the Mansion House afire next , and we shall have you to thank for it . 
You must lock your prisoner up , sir give him to a watchman and call again at a proper time . 
The two clients retreated likewise , and the porter shut them out into the street . 
'That's the way he puts me off , said the old gentleman , 'I can get no redress and no help . 
What are you going to do , sir ? 'To try elsewhere , answered Mr Haredale , who was by this time on horseback . 
'I feel for you , I assure you and well I may , for we are in a common cause , said the old gentleman . 
'I may not have a house to offer you to night let me tender it while I can . 
Langdale that's my name vintner and distiller Holborn Hill you're heartily welcome , if you'll come . 
, and knocked at the door . 
As it had been pretty generally rumoured that Sir John was proscribed by the rioters , a body of thief takers had been keeping watch in the house all night . 
To one of them Mr Haredale stated his business , which appearing to the man of sufficient moment to warrant his arousing the justice , procured him an immediate audience . 
No time was lost in committing the murderer to Newgate then a new building , recently completed at a vast expense , and considered to be of enormous strength . 
gagged him lest they should meet with any of the mob , and he should call to them for help and seated themselves , along with him , in the carriage . 
With eager eyes and strained attention , Mr Haredale saw him chained , and locked and barred up in his cell . 
It would be hard to say , of what nature his reflections were . 
They had no distinctness , and , saving for some flashes now and then , no reference to his condition or the train of circumstances by which it had been brought about . 
After a long time the door of his cell opened . 
He looked up saw the blind man enter and relapsed into his former position . 
'This is bad , Rudge . 
This is bad , he said at length . 
The prisoner shuffled with his feet upon the ground in turning his body from him , but made no other answer . 
'How were you taken ? he asked . 
'And where ? You never told me more than half your secret . 
No matter I know it now . 
How was it , and where , eh ? he asked again , coming still nearer to him . 
'At Chigwell , said the other . 
'At Chigwell ! How came you there ? 'Because I went there to avoid the man I stumbled on , he answered . 
'Because I was chased and driven there , by him and Fate . 
Because I was urged to go there , by something stronger than my own will . 
'You were saying , said the blind man , after another pause , 'that when you heard the Bell 'Let it be , will you ? he retorted in a hurried voice . 
The blind man turned a wistful and inquisitive face towards him , but he continued to speak , without noticing him . 
'I went to Chigwell , in search of the mob . 
I have been so hunted and beset by this man , that I knew my only hope of safety lay in joining them . 
They had gone on before I followed them when it left off . 
'When what left off ? 'The Bell . 
They had quitted the place . 
'Saying what ? 'No matter what . 
I was then at the foot of the turret , where I did the 'Ay , said the blind man , nodding his head with perfect composure , 'I understand . 
'I climbed the stair , or so much of it as was left meaning to hide till he had gone . 
But he heard me and followed almost as soon as I set foot upon the ashes . 
'You might have hidden in the wall , and thrown him down , or stabbed him , said the blind man . 
'Might I ? Between that man and me , was one who led him on I saw it , though he did not and raised above his head a bloody hand . 
I knew the chase would end there . 
'You have a strong fancy , said the blind man , with a smile . 
'Strengthen yours with blood , and see what it will come to . 
Always the same ! In company , in solitude , on land , on shipboard sometimes leaving me alone for months , and sometimes always with me . 
'It was then I thought , for the first time , of fastening the murder upon him . 
It was then I dressed him in my clothes , and dragged him down the back stairs to the piece of water . 
'Why is blood red ? I could no more help it , than I could live without breath . 
I struggled against the impulse , but I was drawn back , through every difficult and adverse circumstance , as by a mighty engine . 
The day and hour were none of my choice . 
Sleeping and waking , I had been among the old haunts for years had visited my own grave . 
Why did I come back ? Because this jail was gaping for me , and he stood beckoning at the door . 
'You were not known ? said the blind man . 
'I was a man who had been twenty two years dead . 
No. I was not known . 
'You should have kept your secret better . 
'MY secret ? MINE ? It was a secret , any breath of air could whisper at its will . 
The stars had it in their twinkling , the water in its flowing , the leaves in their rustling , the seasons in their return . 
It lurked in strangers' faces , and their voices . 
Everything had lips on which it always trembled . 
MY secret ! 'It was revealed by your own act at any rate , said the blind man . 
'The act was not mine . 
I did it , but it was not mine . 
I was forced at times to wander round , and round , and round that spot . 
If you had chained me up when the fit was on me , I should have broken away , and gone there . 
As truly as the loadstone draws iron towards it , so he , lying at the bottom of his grave , could draw me near him when he would . 
The prisoner again resumed his old attitude , and for a long time both were mute . 
and that you ask no greater favour than to be carried to Tyburn as soon as possible ? That being the case , I had better take my leave . 
I am not good enough to be company for you . 
'Lookye , I never killed a man myself , for I have never been placed in a position that made it worth my while . 
Farther , I am not an advocate for killing men , and I don't think I should recommend it or like it for it's very hazardous under any circumstances . 
Now , I do not consider that , at present , it is at all necessary . 
'What else is left me ? returned the prisoner . 
'To eat my way through these walls with my teeth ? 'Something easier than that , returned his friend . 
'Promise me that you will talk no more of these fancies of yours idle , foolish things , quite beneath a man and I'll tell you what I mean . 
'Tell me , said the other . 
'Your worthy lady with the tender conscience your scrupulous , virtuous , punctilious , but not blindly affectionate wife 'What of her ? 'Is now in London . 
'A curse upon her , be she where she may ! 'That's natural enough . 
If she had taken her annuity as usual , you would not have been here , and we should have been better off . 
But that's apart from the business . 
, she left that place , and travelled up to London . 
'How do you know ? 'From my friend the noble captain the illustrious general the bladder , Mr Tappertit . 
Suppose I track my lady out , and say thus much You want your son , ma'am good . 
I , knowing those who tempt him to remain among them , can restore him to you , ma'am good . 
You must pay a price , ma'am , for his restoration good again . 
The price is small , and easy to be paid dear ma'am , that's best of all . 
'What mockery is this ? 'Very likely , she may reply in those words . 
is in prison , his life in peril the charge against him , murder . 
Now , ma'am , your husband has been dead a long , long time . 
is no more he than I am . 
Such testimony will set the question quite at rest . 
out of harm's way until you have done this trifling service , when he shall he delivered up to you , safe and sound . 
It is , in fact , a choice between his life and death . 
If you refuse , he swings . 
If you comply , the timber is not grown , nor the hemp sown , that shall do him any harm . 
'There is a gleam of hope in this ! cried the prisoner . 
'A gleam ! returned his friend , 'a noon blaze a full and glorious daylight . 
Hush ! I hear the tread of distant feet . 
'When shall I hear more ? 'As soon as I do . 
I should hope , to morrow . 
They are coming to say that our time for talk is over . 
I hear the jingling of the keys . 
Not another word of this just now , or they may overhear us . 
As he said these words , the lock was turned , and one of the prison turnkeys appearing at the door , announced that it was time for visitors to leave the jail . 
'So soon ! said Stagg , meekly . 
'But it can't be helped . 
to the prison porch , and set him with his face towards the west , he will do a worthy deed . 
Thank you , good sir . 
I thank you very kindly . 
So saying , and pausing for an instant at the door to turn his grinning face towards his friend , he departed . 
It was a dull , square yard , made cold and gloomy by high walls , and seeming to chill the very sunlight . 
The stone , so bare , and rough , and obdurate , filled even him with longing thoughts of meadow land and trees and with a burning wish to be at liberty . 
As he looked , he rose , and leaning against the door post , gazed up at the bright blue sky , smiling even on that dreary home of crime . 
He seemed , for a moment , to remember lying on his back in some sweet scented place , and gazing at it through moving branches , long ago . 
His attention was suddenly attracted by a clanking sound he knew what it was , for he had startled himself by making the same noise in walking to the door . 
Presently a voice began to sing , and he saw the shadow of a figure on the pavement . 
He walked out into the court and paced it to and fro startling the echoes , as he went , with the harsh jangling of his fetters . 
There was a door near his , which , like his , stood ajar . 
He had not taken half a dozen turns up and down the yard , when , standing still to observe this door , he heard the clanking sound again . 
For the sense of loneliness he had , he might have been in jail a year . 
He shrinking and cowed , despite himself Barnahy struggling with his imperfect memory , and wondering where he had seen that face before . 
Finding the younger man too strong for him , he raised his face , looked close into his eyes , and said , 'I am your father . 
God knows what magic the name had for his ears but Barnaby released his hold , fell back , and looked at him aghast . 
Suddenly he sprung towards him , put his arms about his neck , and pressed his head against his cheek . 
Yes , yes , he was he was sure he was . 
The feeling that the military were No Popery men , and were ripe for disobeying orders and joining the mob , soon became very prevalent in consequence . 
By this time , the crowd was everywhere all concealment and disguise were laid aside , and they pervaded the whole town . 
The peaceable citizens being afraid to lay hands upon them , singly and alone , it may be easily supposed that when gathered together in bodies , they were perfectly secure from interruption . 
They assembled in the streets , traversed them at their will and pleasure , and publicly concerted their plans . 
The crowd was the law , and never was the law held in greater dread , or more implicitly obeyed . 
It was perfectly notorious to the assemblage that the largest body , which comprehended about two thirds of the whole , was designed for the attack on Newgate . 
This last class included , not only the most desperate and utterly abandoned villains in London , but some who were comparatively innocent . 
There was more than one woman there , disguised in man's attire , and bent upon the rescue of a child or brother . 
There were the two sons of a man who lay under sentence of death , and who was to be executed along with three others , on the next day but one . 
When all was ready , Hugh and Dennis , with Simon Tappertit between them , led the way . 
Roaring and chafing like an angry sea , the crowd pressed after them . 
'Beat at the door , cried Hugh to the men about him . 
'We want one of his craft to night . 
Beat it in , if no one answers . 
Both door and shutters were of a strong and sturdy kind , and they knocked without effect . 
'What now , you villains ! he demanded . 
Mark me , my lad and you about him do the same . 
There are a score among ye whom I see now and know , who are dead men from this hour . 
Begone ! and rob an undertaker's while you can ! You'll want some coffins before long . 
'Will you come down ? cried Hugh . 
'Will you give me my daughter , ruffian ? cried the locksmith . 
'I know nothing of her , Hugh rejoined . 
'Burn the door ! 'Stop ! cried the locksmith , in a voice that made them falter presenting , as he spoke , a gun . 
'Let an old man do that . 
You can spare him better . 
The young fellow who held the light , and who was stooping down before the door , rose hastily at these words , and fell back . 
The locksmith ran his eye along the upturned faces , and kept the weapon levelled at the threshold of his house . 
It had no other rest than his shoulder , but was as steady as the house itself . 
'Let the man who does it , take heed to his prayers , he said firmly 'I warn him . 
Speak to me , Simmun . 
'Oh good gentlemen ! cried Miss Miggs . 
'Oh my own precious , precious Simmun 'Hold your nonsense , will you ! retorted Mr Tappertit 'and come down and open the door . 
G. Varden , drop that gun , or it will be worse for you . 
'Don't mind his gun , screamed Miggs . 
'Simmun and gentlemen , I poured a mug of table beer right down the barrel . 
The crowd gave a loud shout , which was followed by a roar of laughter . 
'It wouldn't go off , not if you was to load it up to the muzzle , screamed Miggs . 
, and even called out to those in front , to bring him forth and hang him on a lamp post . 
But Gabriel was quite undaunted , and looked from Hugh and Dennis , who held him by either arm , to Simon Tappertit , who confronted him . 
'You have robbed me of my daughter , said the locksmith , 'who is far dearer to me than my life and you may take my life , if you will . 
'And a wery game old gentleman you are , said Mr Dennis , approvingly 'and you express yourself like a man . 
'For my part , said the hangman , who particularly favoured the lamp post suggestion , 'I honour your principles . 
In such sentiments as them , and here he emphasised his discourse with an oath , 'I'm ready to meet you or any man halfway . 
Have you got a bit of cord anywheres handy ? Don't put yourself out of the way , if you haven't . 
'Don't be a fool , master , whispered Hugh , seizing Varden roughly by the shoulder 'but do as you're bid . 
You'll soon hear what you're wanted for . 
Do it ! 'I'll do nothing at your request , or that of any scoundrel here , returned the locksmith . 
'If you want any service from me , you may spare yourselves the pains of telling me what it is . 
I tell you , beforehand , I'll do nothing for you . 
It was not often , he observed , that they had it in their power to accommodate themselves to the wishes of those from whom they had the misfortune to differ . 
, he hoped they would decide to accede to his proposition before going any further . 
'Pay no respect to my grey hair , young man , he said , answering the voice and not any one he saw . 
'So , tell him what we want , he said to Simon Tappertit , 'and quickly . 
And open your ears , master , if you would ever use them after to night . 
Gabriel folded his arms , which were now at liberty , and eyed his old 'prentice in silence . 
'Lookye , Varden , said Sim , 'we're bound for Newgate . 
'I know you are , returned the locksmith . 
'You never said a truer word than that . 
'To burn it down , I mean , said Simon , 'and force the gates , and set the prisoners at liberty . 
You helped to make the lock of the great door . 
'I did , said the locksmith . 
'You owe me no thanks for that as you'll find before long . 
'Maybe , returned his journeyman , 'but you must show us how to force it . 
'Must I ! 'Yes for you know , and I don't . 
You must come along with us , and pick it with your own hands . 
'When I do , said the locksmith quietly , 'my hands shall drop off at the wrists , and you shall wear them , Simon Tappertit , on your shoulders for epaulettes . 
'We'll see that , cried Hugh , interposing , as the indignation of the crowd again burst forth . 
'You fill a basket with the tools he'll want , while I bring him downstairs . 
Open the doors below , some of you . 
They had no great length of time for these proceedings , for the basket of tools was soon prepared and slung over a man's shoulders . 
The preparations being now completed , and everything ready for the attack , those who were pillaging and destroying in the other rooms were called down to the workshop . 
The man , accordingly , went back again to the rescue , and presently returned with Miss Miggs , limp and doubled up , and very damp from much weeping . 
'Oh bother ! said Mr Tappertit . 
Catch hold of her , somebody . 
Lock her up again she never ought to have been let out . 
'My Simmun ! cried Miss Miggs , in tears , and faintly . 
'My for ever , ever blessed Simmun ! 'Hold up , will you , said Mr Tappertit , in a very unresponsive tone , 'I'll let you fall if you don't . 
What are you sliding your feet off the ground for ? 'My angel Simmuns ! murmured Miggs 'he promised 'Promised ! Well , and I'll keep my promise , answered Simon , testily . 
Here , he cried to one of the bystanders , in whose ear he whispered for a moment 'Take her off , will you . 
Chapter Breaking the silence they had hitherto preserved , they raised a great cry as soon as they were ranged before the jail , and demanded to speak to the governor . 
Before they had repeated their summons many times , a man appeared upon the roof of the governor's house , and asked what it was they wanted . 
Some said one thing , some another , and some only groaned and hissed . 
'Are you , said Hugh at length , 'Mr Akerman , the head jailer here ? 'Of course he is , brother , whispered Dennis . 
But Hugh , without minding him , took his answer from the man himself . 
'You have got some friends of ours in your custody , master . 
'I have a good many people in my custody . 
'Deliver up our friends , said Hugh , 'and you may keep the rest . 
'It's my duty to keep them all . 
I shall do my duty . 
'If you don't throw the doors open , we shall break 'em down , said Hugh 'for we will have the rioters out . 
He made as though he would retire when he said these words , but he was checked by the voice of the locksmith . 
'Mr Akerman , cried Gabriel , 'Mr Akerman . 
'I will hear no more from any of you , replied the governor , turning towards the speaker , and waving his hand . 
'But I am not one of them , said Gabriel . 
'I am an honest man , Mr Akerman a respectable tradesman Gabriel Varden , the locksmith . 
You know me ? 'You among the crowd ! cried the governor in an altered voice . 
'Brought here by force brought here to pick the lock of the great door for them , rejoined the locksmith . 
'Bear witness for me , Mr Akerman , that I refuse to do it and that I will not do it , come what may of my refusal . 
If any violence is done to me , please to remember this . 
strove to trample him to death . 
Tug as he would at the old man's wrists , the hangman could not force him to unclench his hands . 
'Is this all the return you make me , you ungrateful monster ? he articulated with great difficulty , and with many oaths . 
Another man was with him , and both caught the locksmith roughly in their grasp . 
'Leave him to us ! they cried to Hugh struggling , as they spoke , to force a passage backward through the crowd . 
Why do you waste your whole strength on such as he , when a couple of men can finish him in as many minutes ! You lose time . 
Remember the prisoners ! remember Barnaby ! The cry ran through the mob . 
Hammers began to rattle on the walls and every man strove to reach the prison , and be among the foremost rank . 
To all the woodwork round the prison doors they did the like , leaving not a joist or beam untouched . 
This infernal christening performed , they fired the pile with lighted matches and with blazing tow , and then stood by , awaiting the result . 
The furniture being very dry , and rendered more combustible by wax and oil , besides the arts they had used , took fire at once . 
The flames roared high and fiercely , blackening the prison wall , and twining up its loftly front like burning serpents . 
But the anguish and suffering of the two sons of one of these men , when they heard , or fancied that they heard , their father's voice , is past description . 
Nor were they alone affected by the outcry from within the prison . 
Not one living creature in the throng was for an instant still . 
The whole great mass were mad . 
A shout ! Another ! Another yet , though few knew why , or what it meant . 
But those around the gate had seen it slowly yield , and drop from its topmost hinge . 
There was now a gap at the top of the doorway , through which could be descried a gloomy passage , cavernous and dark . 
Pile up the fire ! It burnt fiercely . 
The door was red hot , and the gap wider . 
They vainly tried to shield their faces with their hands , and standing as if in readiness for a spring , watched the place . 
Dark figures , some crawling on their hands and knees , some carried in the arms of others , were seen to pass along the roof . 
It was plain the jail could hold out no longer . 
The keeper , and his officers , and their wives and children , were escaping . 
He started up as these sounds met his ear , and , sitting on his bedstead , listened . 
After a short interval of silence the noise burst out again . 
Still listening attentively , he made out , in course of time , that the jail was besieged by a furious multitude . 
His guilty conscience instantly arrayed these men against himself , and brought the fear upon him that he would be singled out , and torn to pieces . 
Once impressed with the terror of this conceit , everything tended to confirm and strengthen it . 
The other prisoners were a host , hiding and sheltering each other a crowd like that without the walls . 
He was one man against the whole united concourse a single , solitary , lonely man , from whom the very captives in the jail fell off and shrunk appalled . 
But in either case he had no belief or hope that they would spare him . 
Every shout they raised , and every sound they made , was a blow upon his heart . 
But no one came , or answered him . 
Fearful , even while he cried to them , of attracting attention , he was silent . 
By and bye , he saw , as he looked from his grated window , a strange glimmering on the stone walls and pavement of the yard . 
It was feeble at first , and came and went , as though some officers with torches were passing to and fro upon the roof of the prison . 
Soon it reddened , and lighted brands came whirling down , spattering the ground with fire , and burning sullenly in corners . 
After a time , a slow thick shower of burning fragments , from some upper portion of the prison which was blazing nigh , began to fall before his door . 
Now , now , the door was down . 
By their legs , their arms , the hair upon their heads , they dragged the prisoners out . 
He followed this man's gaze until it rested on himself , and heard him demand why he had not answered , but made him no reply . 
They caught him up among them , handed him to the window , and those who stood upon the ladders passed him down upon the pavement of the yard . 
It seemed not a minute's work from first to last . 
He staggered to his feet , incredulous of what had happened , when the yard was filled again , and a crowd rushed on , hurrying Barnaby among them . 
But this functionary of the law reserved one important piece of intelligence , and kept it snugly to himself . 
'Aid ! For what ! said Mr Dennis , playfully rapping the knuckles of the hand nearest him . 
'To save us ! they cried . 
'Oh , certainly , said Mr Dennis , winking at the wall in the absence of any friend with whom he could humour the joke . 
He followed up this reproof by rapping every set of knuckles one after the other , and having done so , resumed his seat again with a cheerful countenance . 
'So well as I can make out , said Mr Dennis , in a tone of mingled badinage and remonstrance , 'there's not a man among you . 
You in number two , don't grind them teeth of yours . 
Worse manners , said the hangman , rapping at the door with his stick , 'I never see in this place afore . 
You're a disgrace to the Bailey . 
After pausing for a moment to hear if anything could be pleaded in justification , Mr Dennis resumed in a sort of coaxing tone 'Now look'ee here , you four . 
I'm come here to take care of you , and see that you an't burnt , instead of the other thing . 
What I say in respect to the speeches always is , Give it mouth . 
There's a pattern ! And always , when a thing of this natur's to come off , what I stand up for , is , a proper frame of mind . 
Let's have a proper frame of mind , and we can go through with it , creditable pleasant sociable . 
I'd sooner by half , though I lose by it , see a man tear his clothes a' purpose to spile 'em before they come to me , than find him snivelling . 
'Halloa ! cried Hugh , who was the first to look into the dusky passage 'Dennis before us ! Well done , old boy . 
Be quick , and open here , for we shall be suffocated in the smoke , going out . 
'Go out at once , then , said Dennis . 
'What do you want here ? 'Want ! echoed Hugh . 
'Four devils ! cried the hangman . 
'Don't you know they're left for death on Thursday ? Don't you respect the law the constitootion nothing ? Let the four men be . 
'Is this a time for joking ? cried Hugh . 
'Do you hear 'em ? Pull away these bars that have got fixed between the door and the ground and let us in . 
I want these four men left alone , I tell you ! 'Pull the bars down , or stand out of the way , was Hugh's reply . 
'You can turn the crowd if you like , you know that well enough , brother , said the hangman , slowly . 
'What ! You WILL come in , will you ? 'Yes . 
'You WILL come in , will you , brother ! 'I tell you , yes . 
It the two sons of one of these men , of whom mention has been made , were furious in their zeal before , they had now the wrath and vigour of lions . 
No need to say 'this one was doomed to die for there were the words broadly stamped and branded on his face . 
At the bidding of the mob , the houses were all illuminated that night lighted up from top to bottom as at a time of public gaiety and joy . 
Though the whole great crowd and all its other terrors had faded from their recollection , this one object remained alone , distinct , and well remembered . 
All day long , nothing , save a draught of water , passed his lips though he prosecuted his inquiries far and wide , and never so much as sat down , once . 
In every quarter he could think of at Chigwell and in London at the houses of the tradespeople with whom he dealt , and of the friends he knew he pursued his search . 
A prey to the most harrowing anxieties and apprehensions , he went from magistrate to magistrate , and finally to the Secretary of State . 
He found himself , with the night coming on , alone in the streets and destitute of any place in which to lay his head . 
He entered an hotel near Charing Cross , and ordered some refreshment and a bed . 
It was not that , the landlord said , in a faltering voice . 
If he were one of those who had suffered by the rioters , he durst not give him entertainment . 
He had a family of children , and had been twice warned to be careful in receiving guests . 
He heartily prayed his forgiveness , but what could he do ? Nothing . 
No man felt that more sincerely than Mr Haredale . 
He told the man as much , and left the house . 
To Newgate ! where that man was ! His failing strength returned , his energies came back with tenfold vigour , on the instant . 
There was the crowd wedged and pressed together in a dense , dark , moving mass and there were the flames soaring up into the air . 
His head turned round and round , lights flashed before his eyes , and he struggled hard with two men . 
'Nay , nay , said one . 
'Be more yourself , my good sir . 
What can you do among so many men ? 'The gentleman's always for doing something , said the other , forcing him along as he spoke . 
'I like him for that . 
I do like him for that . 
They had by this time got him into a court , hard by the prison . 
He looked from one to the other , and as he tried to release himself , felt that he tottered on his feet . 
He who had spoken first , was the old gentleman whom he had seen at the Lord Mayor's . 
The other was John Grueby , who had stood by him so manfully at Westminster . 
'What does this mean ? he asked them faintly . 
'How came we together ? 'On the skirts of the crowd , returned the distiller 'but come with us . 
You seem to know my friend here ? 'Surely , said Mr Haredale , looking in a kind of stupor at John . 
'He'll tell you then , returned the old gentleman , 'that I am a man to be trusted . 
'On one condition , please , sir , said John , touching his hat . 
No evidence against my lord a misled man a kind hearted man , sir . 
My lord never intended this . 
'The condition will be observed , of course , rejoined the old distiller . 
'It's a point of honour . 
But come with us , sir pray come with us . 
As they went along , he was conscious of having no command over what he said or thought , and that he had a fear of going mad . 
The distiller lived , as he had told him when they first met , on Holborn Hill , where he had great storehouses and drove a large trade . 
was set forth in an adjoining chamber . 
At length they were heard approaching the house , and some minutes of terrible anxiety ensued . 
They came close up , and stopped before it but after giving three loud yells , went on . 
And although they returned several times that night , creating new alarms each time , they did nothing there having their hands full . 
Shortly after they had gone away for the first time , one of the scouts came running in with the news that they had stopped before Lord Mansfield's house in Bloomsbury Square . 
, forced an entrance according to their usual custom . 
, began to disperse the crowd . 
But in this , they were disappointed , for a party of horse having arrived before them , they retreated faster than they went , and came straight back to town . 
At one house near Moorfields , they found in one of the rooms some canary birds in cages , and these they cast into the fire alive . 
Chapter When darkness broke away and morning began to dawn , the town wore a strange aspect indeed . 
Sleep had hardly been thought of all night . 
, that a stranger coming into the streets would have supposed some mortal pest or plague to have been raging . 
In place of the usual cheerfulness and animation of morning , everything was dead and silent . 
which were blockaded as though to sustain a siege , and had guns pointed from the windows . 
As the day crept on , still more unusual sights were witnessed in the streets . 
Notwithstanding the presence of the military in every quarter of the town , and the great force in the Park , these messengers did their errands with impunity all through the day . 
So did two boys who went down Holborn alone , armed with bars taken from the railings of Lord Mansfield's house , and demanded money for the rioters . 
So did a tall man on horseback who made a collection for the same purpose in Fleet Street , and refused to take anything but gold . 
It was said that they meant to throw the gates of Bedlam open , and let all the madmen loose . 
So the day passed on , and dreaded night drew near again . 
There was then delivered out to every soldier on duty , thirty six rounds of powder and ball the drums beat and the whole force was under arms at sunset . 
to come on at their peril . 
In almost every street , there was a battle and in every quarter the muskets of the troops were heard above the shouts and tumult of the mob . 
The firing began in the Poultry , where the chain was drawn across the road , where nearly a score of people were killed on the first discharge . 
The streets were now a dreadful spectacle . 
Wherever the road was obstructed by the chains , there the fighting and the loss of life were greatest but there was hot work and bloodshed in almost every leading thoroughfare . 
At this place too , several large fires were burning , so that all the terrors of that terrible night seemed to be concentrated in one spot . 
This man was Hugh and in every part of the riot , he was seen . 
Turn him at one place , and he made a new struggle in anotlter force him to retreat at this point , and he advanced on that , directly . 
like a boat upon the sea , he never for an instant lost his seat , or failed to guide him where he would . 
The soldiers had advanced into Fleet Market and were dispersing the people there so that they came on with hardly any check , and were soon before the house . 
'All's over now , said the vintner . 
'Fifty thousand pounds will be scattered in a minute . 
We can do no more , and shall have reason to be thankful if we do as much . 
My good sir , hear reason . 
I could never make myself heard by knocking at a window now and even if I could , no one would be bold enough to connive at my escape . 
Through the cellars , there's a kind of passage into the back street by which we roll casks in and out . 
We shall have time to get down there before they can force an entry . 
They had but a moment reached the bottom of the cellar steps and shut the door behind them , when the mob broke in . 
came upon them , and cried in an astonished whisper , 'Here they are ! At the same instant they pulled off what they wore upon their heads . 
Mr Haredale saw before him Edward Chester , and then saw , when the vintner gasped his name , Joe Willet . 
'Give me your hand , said Joe softly , taking it whether the astonished vintner would or no . 
'Don't fear to shake it it's a friendly one and a hearty one , though it has no fellow . 
Why , how well you look and how bluff you are ! And you God bless you , sir . 
Take heart , take heart . 
Be of good cheer we have not been idle . 
There was something so honest and frank in Joe's speech , that Mr Haredale put his hand in his involuntarily , though their meeting was suspicious enough . 
Let me tell you that but for this gentleman , you would most likely have been dead by this time , or badly wounded at the best . 
'What do you say ? cried Mr Haredale . 
I know him of old . 
Once in the house , HE would have found you , here or anywhere . 
The rest owe you no particular grudge , and , unless they see you , will only think of drinking themselves dead . 
Are you ready ? 'Quite , said Edward . 
'Put out the torch , Joe , and go on . 
And be silent , there's a good fellow . 
Both Mr Haredale and the worthy vintner were too amazed and too much hurried to ask any further questions , so followed their conductors in silence . 
, and had managed with some difficulty to unchain and raise the door at the upper end , they emerged into the street without being observed or interrupted . 
Here , they lay down for the rest of the night . 
But finding no better shelter , they returned to the same place , and lay down again to wait for night . 
and bring him to that place taking especial care that he was not watched or followed on his way back . 
It was shut up and tenantless . 
He waited for a long while , but no one came . 
At that moment the crowd forced their way into the house , and Hugh it was impossible to see by what means , in such a concourse fell headlong down . 
Barnaby was beside him when he staggered to his feet . 
It was well he made him hear his voice , or Hugh , with his uplifted axe , would have cleft his skull in twain . 
'Barnaby you ! Whose hand was that , that struck me down ? 'Not mine . 
'Whose ! I say , whose ! he cried , reeling back , and looking wildly round . 
As he spoke , he took the horse's bridle in his hand , turned him , and dragged Hugh several paces . 
This brought them out of the crowd , which was pouring from the street into the vintner's cellars . 
'Where's where's Dennis ? said Hugh , coming to a stop , and checking Barnaby with his strong arm . 
Barnaby drew him away , and forced him to rise . 
Though he could neither stand nor walk , he involuntarily staggered to his horse , climbed upon his back , and clung there . 
He looked back , once , before he left the street and looked upon a sight not easily to be erased , even from his remembrance , so long as he had life . 
The vintner's house with a half a dozen others near at hand , was one great , glowing blaze . 
But there was a worse spectacle than this worse by far than fire and smoke , or even the rabble's unappeasable and maniac rage . 
Nor was even this the worst or most appalling kind of death that happened on this fatal night . 
That done , he supported his companion as well as he could , and led him slowly forward . 
After calling to him twice or thrice that there was nothing to fear , but without effect , he suffered Hugh to sink upon the ground , and followed to bring him back . 
He continued to creep away , until Barnaby was close upon him then turned , and said in a terrible , though suppressed voice 'Let me go . 
Do not lay hands upon me . 
You have told her and you and she together have betrayed me ! Barnaby looked at him , in silence . 
'You have seen your mother ! 'No , cried Barnaby , eagerly . 
'Not for a long time longer than I can tell . 
A whole year , I think . 
HE will not harm you . 
'Why , how stern you are ! You make me fear you , though you are my father . 
Who have you brought with you to this hiding place , poor fool and where is the blind man ? 'I don't know where . 
His house was close shut . 
I waited , but no person came that was no fault of mine . 
This is Hugh brave Hugh , who broke into that ugly jail , and set us free . 
Aha ! You like him now , do you ? You like him now ! 'Why does he lie upon the ground ? 'He has had a fall , and has been drinking . 
The fields and trees go round , and round , and round with him , and the ground heaves under his feet . 
You know him ? You remember ? See ! They had by this time returned to where he lay , and both stooped over him to look into his face . 
'I recollect the man , his father murmured . 
'Why did you bring him here ? 'Because he would have been killed if I had left him over yonder . 
They were firing guns and shedding blood . 
Does the sight of blood turn you sick , father ? I see it does , by your face . 
'Shall I bring him in , father ? asked Barnaby , who had looked on , wondering . 
He only answered with a suppressed groan , and lying down upon the ground , wrapped his cloak about his head , and shrunk into the darkest corner . 
Then he lay down himself , between the two , to pass the night and looking at the stars , fell fast asleep . 
He thought of the blithe mornings when he and the dogs went bounding on together through the woods and fields and the recollection filled his eyes with tears . 
that this or that event had never happened , and that the sorrow and suffering of so many people had been spared . 
'Ah ! cried Barnaby , starting from his fit of thoughtfulness . 
'Is it only you ? 'Who should it be ? 'I almost thought , he answered , 'it was the blind man . 
I must have some talk with him , father . 
'And so must I , for without seeing him , I don't know where to fly or what to do , and lingering here , is death . 
You must go to him again , and bring him here . 
'Must I ! cried Barnaby , delighted 'that's brave , father . 
That's what I want to do . 
'But you must bring only him , and none other . 
And though you wait at his door a whole day and night , still you must wait , and not come back without him . 
'Don't you fear that , he cried gaily . 
'He shall come , he shall come . 
'Trim off these gewgaws , said his father , plucking the scraps of ribbon and the feathers from his hat , 'and over your own dress wear my cloak . 
Take heed how you go , and they will be too busy in the streets to notice you . 
Of your coming back you need take no account , for he'll manage that , safely . 
'To be sure ! said Barnaby . 
'To be sure he will ! A wise man , father , and one who can teach us to be rich . 
Oh ! I know him , I know him . 
He was speedily dressed , and as well disguised as he could be . 
He was anxious for his safe return , and yet , though his own life and safety hung upon it , felt a relief while he was gone . 
He walked to and fro , with little rest , all day , revolving these things in his mind and still Hugh lay , unconscious , in the shed . 
At length , when the sun was setting , Barnaby returned , leading the blind man , and talking earnestly to him as they came along together . 
'Why did you send HIM ? said Stagg . 
'Don't you know it was the way to have him lost , as soon as found ? 'Would you have had me come myself ? returned the other . 
I was before the jail on Tuesday night , but missed you in the crowd . 
I was out last night , too . 
There was good work last night gay work profitable work' he added , rattling the money in his pockets . 
'Have you 'Seen your good lady ? Yes . 
'Do you mean to tell me more , or not ? 'I'll tell you all , returned the blind man , with a laugh . 
'Excuse me but I love to see you so impatient . 
'Does she consent to say the word that may save me ? 'No , returned the blind man emphatically , as he turned his face towards him . 
She has been at death's door since she lost her darling has been insensible , and I know not what . 
Our talk was not a long one , for she was weak , and there being people near I was not quite easy . 
But I told her all that you and I agreed upon , and pointed out the young gentleman's position , in strong terms . 
She tried to soften me , but that , of course , was lost time . 
She cried and moaned , you may be sure all women do . 
'You won't , won't you ? he said , feeling that he pushed it from him . 
'Well ! Then the gallant gentleman who's lodging with you , will . 
Hallo , bully ! 'Death ! said the other , holding him back . 
'Will you tell me what I am to do ! 'Do ! Nothing easier . 
, and get as far from London as you can . 
Let me know where you are , and leave the rest to me . 
Think of that , for your comfort . 
How ? 'How ! repeated the blind man . 
And how get meat and drink , but by paying for it ! Money ! he cried , slapping his pocket . 
'Is money the word ? Why , the streets have been running money . 
Devil send that the sport's not over yet , for these are jolly times golden , rare , roaring , scrambling times . 
Hallo , bully ! Hallo ! Hallo ! Drink , bully , drink . 
'Put it about ! he cried , handing his flask to Hugh . 
'The kennels run with wine and gold . 
Guineas and strong water flow from the very pumps . 
He was in the act of drinking , when the front of the shed was suddenly darkened , and Dennis stood before them . 
Barnaby here too , eh ? How are you , Barnaby ? And two other gentlemen ! Your humble servant , gentlemen . 
No offence to YOU either , I hope . 
Eh , brothers ? Notwithstanding that he spoke in this very friendly and confident manner , he seemed to have considerable hesitation about entering , and remained outside the roof . 
His shoes were newly greased , and ornamented with a pair of rusty iron buckles the packthread at his knees had been renewed and where he wanted buttons , he wore pins . 
'You're very snug here , said Mr Dennis , pulling out a mouldy pocket handkerchief , which looked like a decomposed halter , and wiping his forehead in a nervous manner . 
'Not snug enough to prevent your finding us , it seems , Hugh answered , sulkily . 
Ah ! I know the sound of them you wore last night , and have got quick ears for 'em that's the truth . 
Well , but how are you , brother ? He had by this time approached , and now ventured to sit down by him . 
'How am I ? answered Hugh . 
'Your stick , then it's all one . 
'Lord love you , brother , I meant nothing . 
You don't understand me by half . 
'Well ! said Mr Dennis , mournfully , 'if you an't enough to make a man mistrust his feller creeturs , I don't know what is . 
'Might have hurt me ! said Mr Dennis , still keeping it in his hand , and feeling the edge with an air of abstraction . 
'Might have hurt me ! and me exerting myself all the time to the wery best advantage . 
Here's a world ! And you're not a going to ask me to take a sup out of that 'ere bottle , eh ? Hugh passed it towards him . 
As he raised it to his lips , Barnaby jumped up , and motioning them to be silent , looked eagerly out . 
'What's the matter , Barnaby ? said Dennis , glancing at Hugh and dropping the flask , but still holding the axe in his hand . 
'Hush ! he answered softly . 
'What do I see glittering behind the hedge ? 'What ! cried the hangman , raising his voice to its highest pitch , and laying hold of him and Hugh . 
'Not SOLDIERS , surely ! That moment , the shed was filled with armed men and a body of horse , galloping into the field , drew up before it . 
'There ! said Dennis , who remained untouched among them when they had seized their prisoners 'it's them two young ones , gentlemen , that the proclamation puts a price on . 
This other's an escaped felon . 
I had sooner have given away a trifle in charity than done this , I would upon my soul . 
If you'll keep fast hold on 'em , gentlemen , I think I can make a shift to tie 'em better than you can . 
But this operation was postponed for a few moments by a new occurrence . 
He retreated instantly had hidden somewhere for a minute and probably in his confusion mistaking the point at which he had emerged , was now seen running across the open meadow . 
An officer cried directly that he had helped to plunder a house last night . 
He was loudly called on , to surrender . 
He ran the harder , and in a few seconds would have been out of gunshot . 
The word was given , and the men fired . 
There was a breathless pause and a profound silence , during which all eyes were fixed upon him . 
He had been seen to start at the discharge , as if the report had frightened him . 
But he neither stopped nor slackened his pace in the least , and ran on full forty yards further . 
Then , without one reel or stagger , or sign of faintness , or quivering of any limb , he dropped . 
Some of them hurried up to where he lay the hangman with them . 
Everything had passed so quickly , that the smoke had not yet scattered , but curled slowly off in a little cloud , which seemed like the dead man's spirit moving solemnly away . 
There were a few drops of blood upon the grass more , when they turned him over that was all . 
'Look here ! Look here ! said the hangman , stooping one knee beside the body , and gazing up with a disconsolate face at the officer and men . 
'Here's a pretty sight ! 'Stand out of the way , replied the officer . 
'Serjeant ! see what he had about him . 
The man turned his pockets out upon the grass , and counted , besides some foreign coins and two rings , five and forty guineas in gold . 
'Now then , if you're going , said the serjeant , clapping Dennis on the back , and pointing after the officer who was walking towards the shed . 
'Why , who , said Mr Dennis rising , 'should care for it , if I don't ? 'Oh ! I didn't know you was so tender hearted , said the serjeant . 
'That's all ! 'Tender hearted ! echoed Dennis . 
'Tender hearted ! Look at this man . 
Do you call THIS constitootional ? Do you see him shot through and through instead of being worked off like a Briton ? Damme , if I know which party to side with . 
You're as bad as the other . 
At all events his being summoned to that work , diverted him , for the time , from these painful reflections , and gave his thoughts a more congenial occupation . 
They had no opportunity for the least communication , in the short interval which preceded their departure being kept strictly apart . 
Hugh only observed that Barnaby walked with a drooping head among his guard , and , without raising his eyes , that he tried to wave his fettered hand when he passed . 
For himself , he buoyed up his courage as he rode along , with the assurance that the mob would force his jail wherever it might be , and set him at liberty . 
He rather looked upon it as one of those beautiful dispensations which are inscrutably brought about for the behoof and advantage of good men . 
That any charge of companionship which might be made against him by those who were themselves in danger , would certainly go for nought . 
When be entered the miserable room in which they were confined , Dolly and Miss Haredale withdrew in silence to the remotest corner . 
'Miss , miss , whispered Dennis , beckoning to her with his forefinger , 'come here I won't hurt you . 
'Why miss , what's the matter ? 'I don't know what mayn't be the matter ! cried Miss Miggs , clasping her hands distractedly . 
'Anything may be the matter ! 'But nothing is , I tell you , said the hangman . 
'Sit down , said the hangman . 
'Lovey , my dear , whispered Dennis , drawing his chair close to hers . 
'When was your young man here last , eh ? 'MY young man , good gentleman ! answered Miggs in a tone of exquisite distress . 
'Ah ! Simmuns , you know him ? said Dennis . 
'Mine indeed ! cried Miggs , with a burst of bitterness and as she said it , she glanced towards Dolly . 
'MINE , good gentleman ! This was just what Mr Dennis wanted , and expected . 
I saw as much myself . 
Worlds , Miggs added solemnly , 'should not reduce me . 
No. Not if I was Wenis . 
'Well , but you ARE Wenus , you know , said Mr Dennis , confidentially . 
'No , I am not , good gentleman . 
Don't charge me with it . 
'When was Simmuns here , I say ? quoth Dennis , in her ear . 
'Not since yesterday morning and then only for a few minutes . 
Not all day , the day before . 
'You know he meant all along to carry off that one ! said Dennis , indicating Dolly by the slightest possible jerk of his head 'And to hand you over to somebody else . 
'Now I want , said Dennis , 'to clear this house , and to see you righted . 
That it was not his faults , but hers . 
That men did not see through these dreadful arts as women did , and therefore was caged and trapped , as Simmun had been . 
That she had no personal motives to serve far from it on the contrary , her intentions was good towards all parties . 
to ANY designing and artful minxes must be made miserable and unhappy for life , she DID incline towards prewentions . 
Such , she added , was her free confessions . 
But as this was private feelings , and might perhaps be looked upon as wengeance , she begged the gentleman would say no more . 
Whatever he said , wishing to do her duty by all mankind , even by them as had ever been her bitterest enemies , she would not listen to him . 
Stop though ! there's the other . 
'Which other , sir ? asked Miggs still with her fingers in her ears and her head shaking obstinately . 
'Why , the tallest one , yonder , said Dennis , as he stroked his chin , and added , in an undertone to himself , something about not crossing Muster Gashford . 
Then he imparted his design concerning Dolly to Miss Miggs , who was taken more deaf than before , when he began and so remained , all through . 
The notable scheme was this . 
, would more than cover it . 
With regard to Dolly , the gentleman would exercise his own discretion . 
He would be bound to do nothing but to take her away , and keep her away . 
All other arrangements and dispositions would rest entirely with himself . 
but directly Mr Dennis ceased to speak , she reminded him that he had only wasted breath . 
, that little Dolly's heart was quite melted . 
There appeared to be more of these fellows than there had been hitherto and they could no longer hear the voices of women , which they had before plainly distinguished . 
Some new excitement , too , seemed to prevail among them for there was much stealthy going in and out , and a constant questioning of those who were newly arrived . 
They had previously been quite reckless in their behaviour often making a great uproar quarrelling among themselves , fighting , dancing , and singing . 
Whether this change was occasioned by the presence among them of some person of authority in their ranks , or by any other cause , they were unable to decide . 
The colour fled from her cheeks , her courage forsook her , her gentle heart failed . 
Emma had known grief , and could bear it better . 
She had little comfort to impart , but she could soothe and tend her , and she did so and Dolly clung to her like a child to its nurse . 
, that they felt it quite a happiness to have her for a champion . 
, they were left in darkness . 
Any change in their condition in such a place inspired new fears and when some hours had passed , and the gloom was still unbroken , Emma could no longer repress her alarm . 
'I thank my goodness gracious blessed stars I can , miss , returned Miggs , with increased energy . 
'Ally Looyer , good gentlemen ! Even Dolly , cast down and disappointed as she was , revived at this , and bade Miggs hold her tongue directly . 
'WHICH , was you pleased to observe , Miss Varden ? said Miggs , with a strong emphasis on the irrelative pronoun . 
'Ho , gracious me ! cried Miggs , with hysterical derision . 
'Ho , gracious me ! Yes , to be sure I will . 
Nor is it necessary to speculate on these matters , for a startling interruption occurred at that moment , which took their whole attention by storm . 
'For what other purpose am I here ? he answered , closing the door , and standing with his back against it . 
'You have news of my uncle , sir ? said Emma , turning hastily towards him . 
'And of my father and mother ? added Dolly . 
'They are alive and unhurt ? they both cried at once . 
'Yes , and unhurt , he rejoined . 
'And close at hand ? 'I did not say close at hand , he answered smoothly 'they are at no great distance . 
YOUR friends , sweet one , he added , addressing Dolly , 'are within a few hours' journey . 
You will be restored to them , I hope , to night . 
'My uncle , sir faltered Emma . 
'I thank God for it , said Emma , faintly . 
You have reason to be thankful greater reason than it is possible for you , who have seen but one night of these cruel outrages , to imagine . 
'Does he desire , said Emma , 'that I should follow him ? 'Do you ask if he desires it ? cried the stranger in surprise . 
I had forgotten that you could not , being prisoner here . 
'You may venture , sir , to speak plain , said Emma , 'and to tell me the worst . 
We have undergone some preparation for it . 
'It is told in three words , he said , glancing at the locksmith's daughter with a look of some displeasure . 
'The people have risen , to a man , against us the streets are filled with soldiers , who support them and do their bidding . 
But , having powerful Protestant connections , and having my whole wealth embarked with theirs in shipping and commerce , I happily possessed the means of saving your uncle . 
Don't go with him for the world ! 'Hush , pretty fool be silent , he replied , frowning angrily upon her . 
I carry , therefore , no writing which , found upon me , would lead to its certain loss . 
There was a reproof conveyed in these words , which to a nature like Emma Haredale's , was well addressed . 
If I have exposed myself to it , in vain , let it be so but if you and he should ever meet again , do me justice . 
, remember , Miss Haredale , that I left you with a solemn caution , and acquitting myself of all the consequences to which you expose yourself . 
'Stay , sir ! cried Emma one moment , I beg you . 
I have said that she will be restored to her friends to night . 
If you accept the service I tender , Miss Haredale , she shall be instantly placed in safe conduct , and that promise redeemed . 
Do you decide to remain ? People of all ranks and creeds are flying from the town , which is sacked from end to end . 
Let me be of use in some quarter . 
Do you stay , or go ? 'Dolly , said Emma , in a hurried manner , 'my dear girl , this is our last hope . 
If we part now , it is only that we may meet again in happiness and honour . 
I will trust to this gentleman . 
'No no no ! cried Dolly , clinging to her . 
Pray for me , dear girl , as I will for you and never forget the many quiet hours we have passed together . 
'See here ! cried the locksmith . 
Come , you brave and honest gentleman ! Get your senses together , for you haven't long to lie here . 
He had his foot upon the breast of their sham deliverer , in the absence of a spare arm and gave him a gentle roll as he spoke . 
Gashford , for it was no other , crouching yet malignant , raised his scowling face , like sin subdued , and pleaded to be gently used . 
There are a great many in secret drawers , and distributed in various places , known only to my lord and me . 
I can give some very valuable information , and render important assistance to any inquiry . 
You will have to answer it , if I receive ill usage . 
'Pah ! cried Joe , in deep disgust . 
'Get up , man you're waited for , outside . 
Edward Chester and Joe followed . 
But there was no Joe , no Edward and they had said nothing . 
They had only bowed once , and kept at a distance . 
'We are all safe now , Dolly , said her father , kindly . 
'We shall not be separated any more . 
Cheer up , my love , cheer up ! The locksmith's wife knew better perhaps , than he , what ailed her daughter . 
But Mrs Varden being quite an altered woman for the riots had done that good added her word to his , and comforted her with similar representations . 
'Mayhap , said Mr Willet , senior , looking round upon the company , 'she's hungry . 
That's what it is , depend upon it I am , myself . 
The conversation was not of the liveliest nature , nor were the appetites of some among them very keen . 
But , in both these respects , old John more than atoned for any deficiency on the part of the rest , and very much distinguished himself . 
'Tell him where it was done , said the Black Lion to Joe . 
'At the defence of the Savannah , father . 
'At the defence of the Salwanners , repeated Mr Willet , softly again looking round the table . 
'In America , where the war is , said Joe . 
'In America , where the war is , repeated Mr Willet . 
'It was took off in the defence of the Salwanners in America where the war is . 
Indeed , on various pretences , they all withdrew one after another , save Dolly , who was left sitting there alone . 
Good night ! Then he was going elsewhere to some distance , perhaps . 
To what kind of home COULD he be going , now that it was so late ! She heard him walk along the passage , and pass the door . 
But there was a hesitation in his footsteps . 
He turned back Dolly's heart beat high he looked in . 
'Good night ! he didn't say Dolly , but there was comfort in his not saying Miss Varden . 
'Good night ! sobbed Dolly . 
'I am sorry you take on so much , for what is past and gone , said Joe kindly . 
I can't bear to see you do it . 
Think of it no longer . 
You are safe and happy now . 
'You must have suffered very much within these few days and yet you're not changed , unless it's for the better . 
They said you were , but I don't see it . 
You were you were always very beautiful , said Joe , 'but you are more beautiful than ever , now . 
There can be no harm in my saying so , for you must know it . 
You are told so very often , I am sure . 
As a general principle , Dolly DID know it , and WAS told so , very often . 
'I shall bless your name , sobbed the locksmith's little daughter , 'as long as I live . 
I shall never hear it spoken without feeling as if my heart would burst . 
I shall remember it in my prayers , every night and morning till I die ! 'Will you ? said Joe , eagerly . 
'Will you indeed ? It makes me well , it makes me very glad and proud to hear you say so . 
Dolly still sobbed , and held her handkerchief to her eyes . 
Joe still stood , looking at her . 
You remember ? Remember ! But she said nothing . 
She raised her eyes for an instant . 
It was but a glance a little , tearful , timid glance . 
It kept Joe silent though , for a long time . 
'Well ! he said stoutly , 'it was to be otherwise , and was . 
I have been abroad , fighting all the summer and frozen up all the winter , ever since . 
I have come back as poor in purse as I went , and crippled for life besides . 
Thank God for all ! Oh how much , and how keenly , the little coquette of five years ago , felt now ! She had found her heart at last . 
Never having known its worth till now , she had never known the worth of his . 
How priceless it appeared ! 'I did hope once , said Joe , in his homely way , 'that I might come back a rich man , and marry you . 
But I was a boy then , and have long known better than that . 
I am a poor , maimed , discharged soldier , and must be content to rub through life as I can . 
God bless you ! His hand DID tremble but for all that , he took it away again , and left her . 
The shops , too , from Tyburn to Whitechapel , were still shut and very little business was transacted in any of the places of great commercial resort . 
But , notwithstanding , and in spite of the melancholy forebodings of that numerous class of society who see with the greatest clearness into the darkest perspectives , the town remained profoundly quiet . 
In a word , the crowd was utterly routed . 
Upwards of two hundred had been shot dead in the streets . 
Two hundred and fifty more were lying , badly wounded , in the hospitals of whom seventy or eighty died within a short time afterwards . 
A hundred were already in custody , and more were taken every hour . 
When the embers of the fires had been black and cold for many weeks , the labourers' spades proved this , beyond a doubt . 
Seventy two private houses and four strong jails were destroyed in the four great days of these riots . 
Both Lord Mansfield and Lord Saville , however , who had been great sufferers , refused to accept of any compensation whatever . 
In Southwark , no fewer than three thousand of the inhabitants formed themselves into a watch , and patrolled the streets every hour . 
Beside him , with his hand in hers , sat one in whose companionship he felt at peace . 
She was worn , and altered , full of grief , and heavy hearted but the same to him . 
'Mother , he said , after a long silence 'how long , how many days and nights , shall I be kept here ? 'Not many , dear . 
'You hope ! Ay , but your hoping will not undo these chains . 
I hope , but they don't mind that . 
Grip hopes , but who cares for Grip ? The raven gave a short , dull , melancholy croak . 
It said 'Nobody , as plainly as a croak could speak . 
'Who cares for Grip , except you and me ? said Barnaby , smoothing the bird's rumpled feathers with his hand . 
But who cares for Grip ? The raven croaked again Nobody . 
'Will they take HIS life as well as mine ? said Barnaby . 
If you and I and he could die together , there would be none to feel sorry , or to grieve for us . 
But do what they will , I don't fear them , mother ! 'They will not harm you , she said , her tears choking her utterance . 
'They never will harm you , when they know all . 
I am sure they never will . 
'Oh ! Don't be too sure of that , cried Barnaby , with a strange pleasure in the belief that she was self deceived , and in his own sagacity . 
'They have marked me from the first . 
I heard them say so to each other when they brought me to this place last night and I believe them . 
Don't you cry for me . 
They said that I was bold , and so I am , and so I will be . 
You may think that I am silly , but I can die as well as another . 
I have done no harm , have I ? he added quickly . 
'None before Heaven , she answered . 
'Why then , said Barnaby , 'let them do their worst . 
'You will come to morrow ? said Barnaby . 
And they would never part again . 
Why did you do so ? Tell me why , in a word . 
You thought HE was dead . 
You are not sorry that he is alive and has come back to us . 
Where is he ? Here ? 'Do not ask any one where he is , or speak about him , she made answer . 
'Why not ? said Barnaby . 
Because , dear Barnaby , the endeavour of my life has been to keep you two asunder . 
'Father and son asunder ! Why ? 'He has , she whispered in his ear , 'he has shed blood . 
The time has come when you must know it . 
He has shed the blood of one who loved him well , and trusted him , and never did him wrong in word or deed . 
Barnaby recoiled in horror , and glancing at his stained wrist for an instant , wrapped it , shuddering , in his dress . 
'But , she added hastily as the key turned in the lock , 'although we shun him , he is your father , dearest , and I am his wretched wife . 
They seek his life , and he will lose it . 
It must not be by our means nay , if we could win him back to penitence , we should be bound to love him yet . 
Do not seem to know him , except as one who fled with you from the jail , and if they question you about him , do not answer them . 
God be with you through the night , dear boy ! God be with you ! She tore herself away , and in a few seconds Barnaby was alone . 
He stood for a long time rooted to the spot , with his face hidden in his hands then flung himself , sobbing , on his miserable bed . 
She asked the man who conducted her , if she might speak a word with this prisoner . 
Yes , but she must be quick for he was locking up for the night , and there was but a minute or so to spare . 
Saying this , he unlocked the door , and bade her go in . 
She spoke to him , but her voice was weak , and failed her . 
At length she put herself in his track , and when he came near , stretched out her hand and touched him . 
He started backward , trembling from head to foot but seeing who it was , demanded why she came there . 
Before she could reply , he spoke again . 
'Am I to live or die ? Do you murder too , or spare ? 'My son our son , she answered , 'is in this prison . 
'What is that to me ? he cried , stamping impatiently on the stone pavement . 
He can no more aid me than I can aid him . 
If you are come to talk of him , begone ! As he spoke he resumed his walk , and hurried round the court as before . 
When he came again to where she stood , he stopped , and said , 'Am I to live or die ? Do you repent ? 'Oh ! do YOU ? she answered . 
'Will you , while time remains ? Do not believe that I could save you , if I dared . 
'Say if you would , he answered with an oath , as he tried to disengage himself and pass on . 
'Listen to me for one moment , she returned 'for but a moment . 
I am but newly risen from a sick bed , from which I never hoped to rise again . 
The best among us think , at such a time , of good intentions half performed and duties left undone . 
'What is the meaning of your canting words ? he answered roughly . 
'Speak so that I may understand you . 
'I will , she answered , 'I desire to . 
Bear with me for a moment more . 
The hand of Him who set His curse on murder , is heavy on us now . 
'If you come , woman like , to load me with reproaches he muttered , again endeavouring to break away . 
I have a different purpose . 
If not to night , to morrow if not to morrow , at another time . 
Husband , escape is hopeless impossible . 
'You tell me so , do you ? he said , raising his manacled hand , and shaking it . 
'You ! 'Yes , she said , with indescribable earnestness . 
'But why ? 'To make me easy in this jail . 
To make the time 'twixt this and death , pass pleasantly . 
For my good yes , for my good , of course , he said , grinding his teeth , and smiling at her with a livid face . 
But anger and fear soon got the mastery of him , and he spurned her from him . 
'Leave me ! You plot , do you ! You plot to get speech with me , and let them know I am the man they say I am . 
A curse on you and on your boy . 
'On him the curse has already fallen , she replied , wringing her hands . 
Let it fall on one and all . 
The worst has come to me . 
The only comfort that I seek or I can have , will be the knowledge that it comes to you . 
Now go ! She would have urged him gently , even then , but he menaced her with his chain . 
'I say go I say it for the last time . 
The gallows has me in its grasp , and it is a black phantom that may urge me on to something more . 
The man returned to lock the dungeon door , and having done so , carried her away . 
He had been made prisoner that evening . 
, to the Tower , under the strongest guard ever known to enter its gates with a single prisoner . 
Of all his forty thousand men , not one remained to bear him company . 
Friends , dependents , followers , none were there . 
His fawning secretary had played the traitor and he whose weakness had been goaded and urged on by so many for their own purposes , was desolate and alone . 
In this spirit , he was fettered with great care , and conveyed into the interior of the prison . 
'As it is , we're cramped for room , and you'll have company . 
'Well , returned Dennis , 'I don't object to company , brother . 
I was formed for society , I was . 
'That's rather a pity , an't it ? said the man . 
'No , answered Dennis , 'I'm not aware that it is . 
Why should it be a pity , brother ? 'Oh ! I don't know , said the man carelessly . 
'I thought that was what you meant . 
Being formed for society , and being cut off in your flower , you know 'I say , interposed the other quickly , 'what are you talking of ? Don't . 
Who's a going to be cut off in their flowers ? 'Oh , nobody particular . 
I thought you was , perhaps , said the man . 
'This is my quarters , is it ? he asked facetiously . 
'This is the shop , sir , replied his friend . 
He was walking in , but not with the best possible grace , when he suddenly stopped , and started back . 
'Halloa ! said the officer . 
'Nervous ! whispered Dennis in great alarm . 
'I will , when you're in , returned the man . 
'But I can't go in there , whispered Dennis . 
'I can't be shut up with that man . 
But he rolled over on one side , let his arm fall negligently down , drew a long sigh , and murmuring indistinctly , fell fast asleep again . 
There was nothing moveable within it , but a clumsy table which could not be displaced without noise , and a heavy chair . 
He slept so long and so soundly , that Mr Dennis began to think he might sleep on until the turnkey visited them . 
Then , just as it seemed that he was about to fall heavily to the ground from his narrow bed , Hugh's eyes opened . 
It happened that his face was turned directly towards his unexpected visitor . 
He looked lazily at him for some half dozen seconds without any aspect of surprise or recognition then suddenly jumped up , and with a great oath pronounced his name . 
'Keep off , brother , keep off ! cried Dennis , dodging behind the chair . 
'Don't do me a mischief . 
I'm a prisoner like you . 
I haven't the free use of my limbs . 
I'm quite an old man . 
'I'll get up certainly , brother , cried Dennis , anxious to propitiate him by any means in his power . 
'I'll comply with any request of yours , I'm sure . 
What can I do for you ? Only say the word , and I'll do it . 
'What have you done for me ? 'The best . 
The best that could be done , returned the hangman . 
'If it wasn't for the comfort it is to me , to see you here , he muttered , 'I'd have crushed your head against it I would . 
It was some time before Dennis had breath enough to speak , but as soon as he could resume his propitiatory strain , he did so . 
'I did the best that could be done , brother , he whined 'I did indeed . 
I was forced with two bayonets and I don't know how many bullets on each side of me , to point you out . 
'A deal better , said Dennis meekly , after a pause . 
'First , there's all the chances of the law , and they're five hundred strong . 
We may get off scot free . 
Unlikelier things than that have come to pass . 
Kill one's fellow creeturs off , with muskets ! Pah ! and his nature so revolted at the bare idea , that he spat upon the dungeon pavement . 
He rested his arms upon his knees , and stooping forward , looked from beneath his shaggy hair at Dennis , with something of a smile upon his face . 
'The fact is , brother , said the hangman , in a tone of greater confidence , 'that you got into bad company . 
The man that was with you was looked after more than you , and it was him I wanted . 
As to me , what have I got by it ? Here we are , in one and the same plight . 
But it's done , and you're here , and it will soon be all over with you and me and I'd as soon die as live , or live as die . 
That's all the care I have for myself . 
'Well said , brother nothing could be better said , he ventured to observe . 
'We'll eat and drink of the best , and sleep our best , and make the best of it every way . 
Anything can be got for money . 
'Ay , said Hugh , coiling himself into a new position . 
'Where is it ? 'Why , they took mine from me at the lodge , said Mr Dennis 'but mine's a peculiar case . 
'Is it ? They took mine too . 
'Why then , I tell you what , brother , Dennis began . 
'You must look up your friends 'My friends ! cried Hugh , starting up and resting on his hands . 
'Where are my friends ? 'Your relations then , said Dennis . 
'Ha ha ha ! laughed Hugh , waving one arm above his head . 
What was good enough for her , is good enough for me . 
Let them do the like by me as soon as they please the sooner the better . 
Say no more to me . 
'But I want to speak to you I want to hear more about that , said Dennis , changing colour . 
'If you're a wise man , growled Hugh , raising his head to look at him with a frown , 'you'll hold your tongue . 
I tell you I'm going to sleep . 
Chapter A month has elapsed , and we stand in the bedchamber of Sir John Chester . 
The very town , the smoky town , is radiant . 
Sir John was breakfasting in bed . 
The cheerful influence of the morning seemed to have some effect , even upon his equable temper . 
His manner was unusually gay his smile more placid and agreeable than usual his voice more clear and pleasant . 
And his mysterious friend Mr Dennis , likewise ! I am not surprised . 
And my old postman , the exceedingly free and easy young madman of Chigwell ! I am quite rejoiced . 
It's the very best thing that could possibly happen to him . 
The new supply arriving , he took the cup from his servant's hand and saying , with a charming affability , 'I am obliged to you , Peak , dismissed him . 
that the brother of my Lord Mayor should have been in court , with other country justices , into whose very dense heads curiosity had penetrated . 
These insane creatures make such very odd and embarrassing remarks , that they really ought to be hanged for the comfort of society . 
The country justice had indeed turned the wavering scale against poor Barnaby , and solved the doubt that trembled in his favour . 
Grip little thought how much he had to answer for . 
'They will be a singular party , said Sir John , leaning his head upon his hand , and sipping his chocolate 'a very curious party . 
The hangman himself the centaur and the madman . 
The centaur would make a very handsome preparation in Surgeons' Hall , and would benefit science extremely . 
I hope they have taken care to bespeak him . 
Peak , I am not at home , of course , to anybody but the hairdresser . 
This reminder to his servant was called forth by a knock at the door , which the man hastened to open . 
After a prolonged murmur of question and answer , he returned and as he cautiously closed the room door behind him , a man was heard to cough in the passage . 
'Now , it is of no use , Peak , said Sir John , raising his hand in deprecation of his delivering any message 'I am not at home . 
I cannot possibly hear you . 
I told you I was not at home , and my word is sacred . 
'Let him in , said Sir John . 
'If I have taken any uncommon course to get admission to you , I hope I shall be pardoned on that account . 
'Well ! we shall see we shall see , returned Sir John , whose face cleared up when he saw who it was , and whose prepossessing smile was now restored . 
'I am sure we have met before , he added in his winning tone , 'but really I forget your name ? 'My name is Gabriel Varden , sir . 
'Varden , of course , Varden , returned Sir John , tapping his forehead . 
'Dear me , how very defective my memory becomes ! Varden to be sure Mr Varden the locksmith . 
You have a charming wife , Mr Varden , and a most beautiful daughter . 
They are well ? Gabriel thanked him , and said they were . 
'I rejoice to hear it , said Sir John . 
'Commend me to them when you return , and say that I wished I were fortunate enough to convey , myself , the salute which I entrust you to deliver . 
And what , he asked very sweetly , after a moment's pause , 'can I do for you ? You may command me freely . 
'I thank you , Sir John , said Gabriel , with some pride in his manner , 'but I have come to ask no favour of you , though I come on business . 
Private , he added , with a glance at the man who stood looking on , 'and very pressing business . 
Oblige me with some more chocolate , Peak , and don't wait . 
The man retired , and left them alone . 
'Sir John , said Gabriel , 'I am a working man , and have been so , all my life . 
I wish to be careful and considerate , and I trust that in a straightforward person like me , you'll take the will for the deed . 
'Mr Varden , returned the other , perfectly composed under this exordium 'I beg you'll take a chair . 
Chocolate , perhaps , you don't relish ? Well ! it IS an acquired taste , no doubt . 
'Sir John , said Gabriel , who had acknowledged with a bow the invitation to be seated , but had not availed himself of it . 
When he had done this , he again retired and Sir John , reclining in an easy attitude upon his pillow , once more turned a smiling face towards his visitor . 
'You will forgive me , Mr Varden , I am sure , for being at first a little sensitive both on your account and my own . 
I confess I was startled , notwithstanding your delicate exordium . 
Might I ask you to do me the favour not to approach any nearer ? You have really come from Newgate ! The locksmith inclined his head . 
A strange place , where many strange things are heard and seen but few more strange than that I come to tell you of . 
'Not no , no not from the jail ? 'Yes , Sir John from the jail . 
Sir John had expected had been quite certain from the first that he would say he had come from Hugh , and was prepared to meet him on that point . 
But this answer occasioned him a degree of astonishment , which , for the moment , he could not , with all his command of feature , prevent his face from expressing . 
'MAY have seen ! cried Sir John . 
'My dear Mr Varden , you are quite a public character , and live in all men's thoughts most deservedly . 
Nothing can exceed the interest with which I read your testimony , and remembered that I had the pleasure of a slight acquaintance with you . 
I needn't tell you that he is no friend of mine , and that I had never seen him , until the rioters beset my house . 
Sir John fanned himself gently with the newspaper , and nodded . 
'You are quite a Christian , Mr Varden , said Sir John 'and in that amiable capacity , you increase my desire that you should take a chair . 
, and because he believed , from the way in which I had given my evidence , that I was an honest man , and would act truly by him . 
, he had kept his own counsel , up to the time of his being taken and put in jail . 
The time is very short , Sir John . 
'They have been in prison now , a month . 
She had been tempted by want as so many people are into the easy crime of passing forged notes . 
But they were mistaken for she was stopped in the commission of her very first offence , and died for it . 
Still he met the locksmith's eye , as before . 
'She was of gipsy blood , Sir John , repeated Gabriel , 'and had a high , free spirit . 
This , and her good looks , and her lofty manner , interested some gentlemen who were easily moved by dark eyes and efforts were made to save her . 
They might have been successful , if she would have given them any clue to her history . 
But she never would , or did . 
There was reason to suspect that she would make an attempt upon her life . 
A watch was set upon her night and day and from that time she never spoke again Sir John stretched out his hand towards his cup . 
The locksmith going on , arrested it half way . 
'Until she had but a minute to live . 
Sir John drew back his outstretched hand , and seeing that the locksmith paused , signed to him with easy politeness and without any new appearance of emotion , to proceed . 
'It was the first word she had ever spoken , from which it could be understood that she had any relative on earth . 
Was the child alive ? he asked . 
He asked her where it was , its name , and whether she had any wish respecting it . 
She had but one , she said . 
It was that the boy might live and grow , in utter ignorance of his father , so that no arts might teach him to be gentle and forgiving . 
When he became a man , she trusted to the God of their tribe to bring the father and the son together , and revenge her through her child . 
He asked her other questions , but she spoke no more . 
Indeed , he says , she scarcely said this much , to him , but stood with her face turned upwards to the sky , and never looked towards him once . 
That name he will tell again , Sir John , to none but you . 
The knight finished his cup of chocolate with an appearance of infinite relish , and carefully wiped his lips upon his handkerchief . 
'Sir John , said the locksmith , 'this is all that has been told to me but since these two men have been left for death , they have conferred together closely . 
See them , and hear what they can add . 
See this Dennis , and learn from him what he has not trusted to me . 
, the means are easy . 
At the worst , I suppose to your seeing your son , and awakening him to a sense of his crime and danger . 
He has no such sense now . 
'Think better of it , sir , when I am gone , returned the locksmith 'think better of it , sir . 
I never so much regretted the arrival of my hairdresser as I do at this moment . 
God bless you ! Good morning ! You'll not forget my message to the ladies , Mr Varden ? Peak , show Mr Varden to the door . 
Gabriel said no more , but gave the knight a parting look , and left him . 
He rose from his bed with a heavy sigh , and wrapped himself in his morning gown . 
Extremely distressing to be the parent of such an uncouth creature ! Still , I gave him very good advice . 
I told him he would certainly be hanged . 
I could have done no more if I had known of our relationship and there are a great many fathers who have never done as much for THEIR natural children . 
, the same imperturbable , fascinating , elegant gentleman he had seen yesterday , and many yesterdays before . 
Chapter As the locksmith walked slowly away from Sir John Chester's chambers , he lingered under the trees which shaded the path , almost hoping that he might be summoned to return . 
He had turned back thrice , and still loitered at the corner , when the clock struck twelve . 
It was a solemn sound , and not merely for its reference to to morrow for he knew that in that chime the murderer's knell was rung . 
He had marked the wandering look , seeking for hope , and finding , turn where it would , despair . 
He had seen the remorseful , pitiful , desolate creature , riding , with his coffin by his side , to the gibbet . 
Mr Haredale had determined to be there , and see it done . 
Nothing but the evidence of his own senses could satisfy that gloomy thirst for retribution which had been gathering upon him for so many years . 
The locksmith knew this , and when the chimes had ceased to vibrate , hurried away to meet him . 
'For these two men , he said , as he went , 'I can do no more . 
We have always been good friends , but I never knew , till now , how much I loved the lad . 
There were not many in the great city who thought of Barnaby that day , otherwise than as an actor in a show which was to take place to morrow . 
The word had gone forth that Barnaby was to die . 
It went forth , every month , for lighter crimes . 
It was a thing so common , that very few were startled by the awful sentence , or cared to question its propriety . 
Just then , too , when the law had been so flagrantly outraged , its dignity must be asserted . 
The symbol of its dignity , stamped upon every page of the criminal statute book , was the gallows and Barnaby was to die . 
They had tried to save him . 
The locksmith had carried petitions and memorials to the fountain head , with his own hands . 
But the well was not one of mercy , and Barnaby was to die . 
From the first his mother had never left him , save at night and with her beside him , he was as usual contented . 
Grip uttered a feeble croak , half in encouragement , it seemed , and half in remonstrance , but he wanted heart to sustain it , and lapsed abruptly into silence . 
It was morning but now they had sat and talked together in a dream and here was evening . 
The dreadful hour of separation , which even yesterday had seemed so distant , was at hand . 
They walked out into the courtyard , clinging to each other , but not speaking . 
Barnaby knew that the jail was a dull , sad , miserable place , and looked forward to to morrow , as to a passage from it to something bright and beautiful . 
He trod the ground more firmly as he thought of this , and bade her take heart and cry no more , and feel how steady his hand was . 
'They call me silly , mother . 
They shall see to morrow ! Dennis and Hugh were in the courtyard . 
Hugh came forth from his cell as they did , stretching himself as though he had been sleeping . 
Dennis sat upon a bench in a corner , with his knees and chin huddled together , and rocked himself to and fro like a person in severe pain . 
The mother and son remained on one side of the court , and these two men upon the other . 
Hugh strode up and down , glancing fiercely every now and then at the bright summer sky , and looking round , when he had done so , at the walls . 
'No reprieve , no reprieve ! Nobody comes near us . 
There's only the night left now ! moaned Dennis faintly , as he wrung his hands . 
'Do you think they'll reprieve me in the night , brother ? I've known reprieves come in the night , afore now . 
I've known 'em come as late as five , six , and seven o'clock in the morning . 
Don't you think there's a good chance yet , don't you ? Say you do . 
'But tell me what you think . 
Some other man has got my old opinions at this minute . 
Somebody's longing to work me off . 
I know by myself that somebody must be ! 'He'll soon have his longing , said Hugh , resuming his walk . 
'Think of that , and be quiet . 
Yet , as Mr Dennis knew and could have told them , these were the two commonest states of mind in persons brought to their pass . 
Such was the wholesome growth of the seed sown by the law , that this kind of harvest was usually looked for , as a matter of course . 
In one respect they all agreed . 
'Fetch me the book I left within upon your bed , she said to Barnaby , as the clock struck . 
He looked in her face , and saw there , that the time was come . 
After a long embrace , he tore himself away , and ran to bring it to her bidding her not stir till he came back . 
He soon returned , for a shriek recalled him , but she was gone . 
He ran to the yard gate , and looked through . 
They were carrying her away . 
She had said her heart would break . 
Don't you think there's a chance ? I don't mean for you , I mean for me . 
Don't let HIM hear us 'he's so desperate . 
'Not yet , cried Dennis , 'not yet . 
Not for an hour yet . 
'I say , your watch goes different from what it used to , returned the man . 
'Once upon a time it was always too fast . 
It's got the other fault now . 
'My friend , cried the wretched creature , falling on his knees , 'my dear friend you always were my dear friend there's some mistake . 
Some letter has been mislaid , or some messenger has been stopped upon the way . 
He may have fallen dead . 
I saw a man once , fall down dead in the street , myself , and he had papers in his pocket . 
Let somebody go to inquire . 
They never will hang me . 
Yes , they will , he cried , starting to his feet with a terrible scream . 
'They'll hang me by a trick , and keep the pardon back . 
It's a plot against me . 
I shall lose my life ! And uttering another yell , he fell in a fit upon the ground . 
If you wake in the night , sing that out lustily , and fall asleep again . 
Ha ha ha ! Barnaby glanced once more through the grate into the empty yard and then watched Hugh as he strode to the steps leading to his sleeping cell . 
He heard him shout , and burst into a roar of laughter , and saw him flourish his hat . 
Chapter The time wore on . 
Some dragged slowly on , towards the rest , an empty cart , which they brought rumbling from the prison yard while others erected strong barriers across the street . 
Gradually , a faint brightness appeared in the east , and the air , which had been very warm all through the night , felt cool and chilly . 
Though there was no daylight yet , the darkness was diminished , and the stars looked pale . 
By and by , the feeble light grew stronger , and the houses with their signboards and inscriptions , stood plainly out , in the dull grey morning . 
Heavy stage waggons crawled from the inn yard opposite and travellers peeped out and as they rolled sluggishly away , cast many a backward look towards the jail . 
Some had purchased seats upon the house tops , and were already crawling to their stations from parapet and garret window . 
A fairer morning never shone . 
It seemed as if the very sun forbore to look upon it . 
It was better in the solitude and gloom of midnight with a few forms clustering about it , than in the freshness and the stir of morning the centre of an eager crowd . 
Five o'clock had struck six seven and eight . 
Along the two main streets at either end of the cross way , a living stream had now set in , rolling towards the marts of gain and business . 
Carts , coaches , waggons , trucks , and barrows , forced a passage through the outskirts of the throng , and clattered onward in the same direction . 
Two rioters were to die before the prison , who had been concerned in the attack upon it and one directly afterwards in Bloomsbury Square . 
At nine o'clock , a strong body of military marched into the street , and formed and lined a narrow passage into Holborn , which had been indifferently kept all night by constables . 
, and wheeled up to the prison gate . 
But , as the hour approached , a buzz and hum arose , which , deepening every moment , soon swelled into a roar , and seemed to fill the air . 
Nor had they any need to hear it , either , for they could see it in the people's faces . 
Three quarters past eleven ! The murmur now was deafening , yet every man seemed mute . 
It were as easy to detect the motion of lips in a sea shell . 
Three quarters past eleven ! Many spectators who had retired from the windows , came back refreshed , as though their watch had just begun . 
The officers , who until now had kept together , fell into their several positions , and gave the words of command . 
Swords were drawn , muskets shouldered , and the bright steel winding its way among the crowd , gleamed and glittered in the sun like a river . 
Along this shining path , two men came hurrying on , leading a horse , which was speedily harnessed to the cart at the prison door . 
Then , a profound silence replaced the tumult that had so long been gathering , and a breathless pause ensued . 
The church tower , the church roof , the church yard , the prison leads , the very water spouts and lampposts every inch of room swarmed with human life . 
At the first stroke of twelve the prison bell began to toll . 
Then the roar mingled now with cries of 'Hats off ! and 'Poor fellows ! and , from some specks in the great concourse , with a shriek or groan burst forth again . 
It was terrible to see if any one in that distraction of excitement could have seen the world of eager eyes , all strained upon the scaffold and the beam . 
The hollow murmuring was heard within the jail as plainly as without . 
The three were brought forth into the yard , together , as it resounded through the air . 
They knew its import well . 
'D'ye hear ? cried Hugh , undaunted by the sound . 
'They expect us ! I heard them gathering when I woke in the night , and turned over on t'other side and fell asleep again . 
We shall see how they welcome the hangman , now that it comes home to him . 
Ha , ha , ha ! The Ordinary coming up at this moment , reproved him for his indecent mirth , and advised him to alter his demeanour . 
'And why , master ? said Hugh . 
'Can I do better than bear it easily ? YOU bear it easily enough . 
Ha , ha ! I've heard that , you see , before now . 
'I fear , observed the clergyman , shaking his head , 'that you are incorrigible . 
I am , rejoined Hugh sternly . 
'Be no hypocrite , master ! You make a merry making of this , every month let me be merry , too . 
If you want a frightened fellow there's one that'll suit you . 
Try your hand upon him . 
Turning from this wretched spectacle , he called to Barnaby , who stood apart . 
'What cheer , Barnaby ? Don't be downcast , lad . 
'Bless you , cried Barnaby , stepping lightly towards him , 'I'm not frightened , Hugh . 
I wouldn't desire to live now , if they'd let me . 
He may spoil your appetite for breakfast , though you ARE used to it . 
He was the only one of the three who had washed or trimmed himself that morning . 
Neither of the others had done so , since their doom was pronounced . 
He still wore the broken peacock's feathers in his hat and all his usual scraps of finery were carefully disposed about his person . 
But all these things increased his guilt . 
The law had declared it so , and so it must be . 
The good minister had been greatly shocked , not a quarter of an hour before , at his parting with Grip . 
In the middle of this chamber , two smiths , with hammers , stood beside an anvil . 
Hugh walked straight up to them , and set his foot upon it with a sound as though it had been struck by a heavy weapon . 
Then , with folded arms , he stood to have his irons knocked off scowling haughtily round , as those who were present eyed him narrowly and whispered to each other . 
It took so much time to drag Dennis in , that this ceremony was over with Hugh , and nearly over with Barnaby , before he appeared . 
'Dennis , said the governor of the jail , 'you know what the course is , and that the order came with the rest . 
You know that we could do nothing , even if we would . 
'All I ask , sir , all I want and beg , is time , to make it sure , cried the trembling wretch , looking wildly round for sympathy . 
'The King and Government can't know it's me I'm sure they can't know it's me or they never would bring me to this dreadful slaughterhouse . 
They know my name , but they don't know it's the same man . 
Stop my execution for charity's sake stop my execution , gentlemen till they can be told that I've been hangman here , nigh thirty year . 
Let them know that , sir . 
They've made it worse to me by giving me so much to do . 
Stop my execution till they know that ! The governor beckoned with his hand , and the two men , who had supported him before , approached . 
He uttered a piercing cry 'Wait ! Wait . 
Only a moment only one moment more ! Give me a last chance of reprieve . 
One of us three is to go to Bloomsbury Square . 
Let me be the one . 
It may come in that time it's sure to come . 
In the Lord's name let me be sent to Bloomsbury Square . 
It was at this moment that the clock struck the first stroke of twelve , and the bell began to toll . 
The various officers , with the two sheriffs at their head , moved towards the door . 
All was ready when the last chime came upon the ear . 
They told Hugh this , and asked if he had anything to say . 
'To say ! he cried . 
Yes , he added , as his eye fell upon Barnaby , 'I have a word to say , too . 
There was , for the moment , something kind , and even tender , struggling in his fierce aspect , as he wrung his poor companion by the hand . 
This one , he added , wringing his hand again , 'that will be lost through me . 
'Not through you , said the idiot , mildly . 
You were not to blame . 
You have always been very good to me . 
'I ask her pardon and his . 
Look here , he added roughly , in his former tone . 
'You see this lad ? They murmured 'Yes , and seemed to wonder why he asked . 
'That gentleman yonder pointing to the clergyman 'has often in the last few days spoken to me of faith , and strong belief . 
See what he is ! Look at him ! Barnaby had moved towards the door , and stood beckoning him to follow . 
To this I say , Amen , amen ! His arm fell downward by his side he turned and moved towards them with a steady step , the man he had been before . 
'There is nothing more ? said the governor . 
and answered , 'There is nothing more . 
'Move forward ! Unless , said Hugh , glancing hurriedly back , 'unless any person here has a fancy for a dog and not then , unless he means to use him well . 
There's one , belongs to me , at the house I came from , and it wouldn't be easy to find a better . 
He'll whine at first , but he'll soon get over that . 
You wonder that I think about a dog just now , he added , with a kind of laugh . 
'If any man deserved it of me half as well , I'd think of HIM . 
As soon as he had passed the door , his miserable associate was carried out and the crowd beheld the rest . 
In a few minutes the sheriffs reappeared , the same procession was again formed , and they passed through various rooms and passages to another door that at which the cart was waiting . 
Two cripples both mere boys one with a leg of wood , one who dragged his twisted limbs along by the help of a crutch , were hanged in this same Bloomsbury Square . 
Another boy was hanged in Bow Street other young lads in various quarters of the town . 
Four wretched women , too , were put to death . 
In a word , those who suffered as rioters were , for the most part , the weakest , meanest , and most miserable among them . 
Chapter On this same day , and about this very hour , Mr Willet the elder sat smoking his pipe in a chamber at the Black Lion . 
Although it was hot summer weather , Mr Willet sat close to the fire . 
'Why , father ! cried Joe , entering at the moment , 'you're in spirits to day ! 'It's nothing partickler , said Mr Willet , chuckling again . 
'It's nothing at all partickler , Joseph . 
Tell me something about the Salwanners . 
Having preferred this request , Mr Willet chuckled a third time , and after these unusual demonstrations of levity , he put his pipe in his mouth again . 
'What shall I tell you , father ? asked Joe , laying his hand upon his sire's shoulder , and looking down into his face . 
'That I have come back , poorer than a church mouse ? You know that . 
That I have come back , maimed and crippled ? You know that . 
'It was took off , muttered Mr Willet , with his eyes upon the fire , 'at the defence of the Salwanners , in America , where the war is . 
'Quite right , returned Joe , smiling , and leaning with his remaining elbow on the back of his father's chair 'the very subject I came to speak to you about . 
A man with one arm , father , is not of much use in the busy world . 
This was one of those vast propositions which Mr Willet had never considered for an instant , and required time to 'tackle . 
Wherefore he made no answer . 
'At all events , said Joe , 'he can't pick and choose his means of earning a livelihood , as another man may . 
'Now look here , father . 
Mr Edward has come to England from the West Indies . 
In what form of expression his feelings would have found a vent , it is impossible to say . 
'I reprove you ! said Joe . 
'Yes for every kind and honest word you uttered , went to my heart . 
There was an odd sort of eloquence in his one arm , which had crept round her waist but his lips were mute . 
'Triumph ! repeated Joe , with a smile which seemed to say , 'I am a pretty figure for that . 
'Yes , triumph , she cried , with her whole heart and soul in her earnest voice , and gushing tears 'for it is one . 
I am glad to think and know it is . 
I hoped you would come back that night . 
I made quite sure you would . 
I prayed for it on my knees . 
Through all these long , long years , I have never once forgotten you , or left off hoping that this happy time might come . 
The eloquence of Joe's arm surpassed the most impassioned language and so did that of his lips yet he said nothing , either . 
I will never know a wish or care beyond our home and you , and I will always study how to please you with my best affection and my most devoted love . 
I will indeed I will ! Joe could only repeat his former eloquence but it was very much to the purpose . 
'They know of this , at home , said Dolly . 
'Father , said Joe , presenting Dolly . 
'Say a word , father , if it's only how d'ye do , urged Joe . 
'Certainly , Joseph , answered Mr Willet . 
'Oh yes ! Why not ? 'To be sure , said Joe . 
'Why not ? 'Ah ! replied his father . 
So he sat for half an hour , quite motionless , and looking all the while like nothing so much as a great Dutch Pin or Skittle . 
into a very loud and very short laugh and repeating , 'Certainly , Joseph . 
Oh yes ! Why not ? went out for a walk . 
But the Golden Key lies in our way , though it was out of his so to the Golden Key this chapter goes . 
The Golden Key itself , fair emblem of the locksmith's trade , had been pulled down by the rioters , and roughly trampled under foot . 
But , now , it was hoisted up again in all the glory of a new coat of paint , and shewed more bravely even than in days of yore . 
The door stood partly open but the locksmith's hammer was unheard the cat sat moping on the ashy forge all was deserted , dark , and silent . 
On the threshold of this door , Mr Haredale and Edward Chester met . 
'Varden brought the mother here last evening , he told me ? said Mr Haredale . 
'She is above stairs now in the room over here , Edward rejoined . 
'Her grief , they say , is past all telling . 
I needn't add for that you know beforehand , sir that the care , humanity , and sympathy of these good people have no bounds . 
'I am sure of that . 
Heaven repay them for it , and for much more ! Varden is out ? 'He returned with your messenger , who arrived almost at the moment of his coming home himself . 
He was out the whole night but that of course you know . 
He was with you the greater part of it ? 'He was . 
Without him , I should have lacked my right hand . 
He is an older man than I but nothing can conquer him . 
'The cheeriest , stoutest hearted fellow in the world . 
'He has a right to be . 
He has a right to he . 
A better creature never lived . 
He reaps what he has sown no more . 
'It is not all men , said Edward , after a moment's hesitation , 'who have the happiness to do that . 
'More than you imagine , returned Mr Haredale . 
'We note the harvest more than the seed time . 
You do so in me . 
In truth his pale and haggard face , and gloomy bearing , had so far influenced the remark , that Edward was , for the moment , at a loss to answer him . 
'Tut , tut , said Mr Haredale , ''twas not very difficult to read a thought so natural . 
But you are mistaken nevertheless . 
I have had my share of sorrows more than the common lot , perhaps , but I have borne them ill . 
I have broken where I should have bent and have mused and brooded , when my spirit should have mixed with all God's great creation . 
The men who learn endurance , are they who call the whole world , brother . 
I have turned FROM the world , and I pay the penalty . 
Edward would have interposed , but he went on without giving him time . 
'It is too late to evade it now . 
'Nay , you make too sure of that , said Edward . 
'You think so , Mr Haredale answered , 'and I am glad you do . 
I know myself better , and therefore distrust myself more . 
Let us leave this subject for another not so far removed from it as it might , at first sight , seem to be . 
Sir , you still love my niece , and she is still attached to you . 
'I have that assurance from her own lips , said Edward , 'and you know I am sure you know that I would not exchange it for any blessing life could yield me . 
'You are frank , honourable , and disinterested , said Mr Haredale 'you have forced the conviction that you are so , even on my once jaundiced mind , and I believe you . 
Wait here till I come back . 
He left the room as he spoke but soon returned with his niece . 
'It is the only circumstance arising out of our love , observed Edward , 'that I have forgotten . 
'You own a name , said Mr Haredale , 'I had deep reason to remember . 
'Dear uncle , cried Emma , 'I have known no parent but you . 
I have loved the memory of others , but I have loved you all my life . 
Never was father kinder to his child than you have been to me , without the interval of one harsh hour , since I can first remember . 
'You judge yourself too harshly , said Edward . 
'They rise in judgment against me when I look back , and not now for the first time , he answered . 
'You bear a blessing from us both , said Emma . 
'Never mingle thoughts of me of me who owe you so much love and duty with anything but undying affection and gratitude for the past , and bright hopes for the future . 
'The future , returned her uncle , with a melancholy smile , 'is a bright word for you , and its image should be wreathed with cheerful hopes . 
Mine is of another kind , but it will be one of peace , and free , I trust , from care or passion . 
When you quit England I shall leave it too . 
There are cloisters abroad and now that the two great objects of my life are set at rest , I know no better home . 
You droop at that , forgetting that I am growing old , and that my course is nearly run . 
Well , we will speak of it again not once or twice , but many times and you shall give me cheerful counsel , Emma . 
'And you will take it ? asked his niece . 
'I'll listen to it , he answered , with a kiss , 'and it will have its weight , be certain . 
What have I left to say ? You have , of late , been much together . 
'Much , much better , whispered Emma . 
'I avow my share in them , said Mr Haredale , 'though I held it , at the time , in detestation . 
Let no man turn aside , ever so slightly , from the broad path of honour , on the plausible pretence that he is justified by the goodness of his end . 
All good ends can he worked out by good means . 
Those that cannot , are bad and may be counted so at once , and left alone . 
He looked from her to Edward , and said in a gentler tone 'In goods and fortune you are now nearly equal . 
I am glad you go abroad . 
Let our ill fated house remain the ruin it is . 
When you return , after a few thriving years , you will command a better , and a more fortunate one . 
We are friends ? Edward took his extended hand , and grasped it heartily . 
Her father had a generous nature , and you would have pleased him well . 
I give her to you in his name , and with his blessing . 
If the world and I part in this act , we part on happier terms than we have lived for many a day . 
It was a loud shouting , mingled with boisterous acclamations , that rent the very air . 
It drew nearer and nearer every moment , and approached so rapidly , that , even while they listened , it burst into a deafening confusion of sounds at the street corner . 
'This must be stopped quieted , said Mr Haredale , hastily . 
'We should have foreseen this , and provided against it . 
I will go out to them at once . 
They ran to the window , drew up the sash , and looked into the crowded street . 
And thus , in course of time , they reached the door , held ready for their entrance by no unwilling hands . 
'Such is the blessed end , sir , cried the panting locksmith , to Mr Haredale , 'of the best day's work we ever did . 
The rogues ! it's been hard fighting to get away from 'em . 
Failing in their attempts , in the first quarter to which they addressed themselves , they renewed them in another . 
But , directly we got into the street we were known , and this hubbub began . 
, and with the bird upon his arm presented himself at the first floor window , and waved his hat again until it dangled by a shred , between his finger and thumb . 
The crowd assenting , substituted Gabriel Varden for the nothing particular and giving him one over , for good measure , dispersed in high good humour . 
And it is well they happened to be of this class , for they would be very hard to tell , were their narration ever so indispensable . 
Before leaving this bright picture , it may be well to glance at a dark and very different one which was presented to only a few eyes , that same night . 
The scene was a churchyard the time , midnight the persons , Edward Chester , a clergyman , a grave digger , and the four bearers of a homely coffin . 
He placed it for a moment on the coffin , when he and his companions were about to lower it down . 
There was no inscription on the lid . 
The grave was filled in to the top , and trodden down . 
They all left the spot together . 
'You never saw him , living ? asked the clergyman , of Edward . 
'Often , years ago not knowing him for my brother . 
Yesterday , he steadily refused to see me . 
It was urged upon him , many times , at my desire . 
'Still he refused ? That was hardened and unnatural . 
'Do you think so ? 'I infer that you do not ? 'You are right . 
We hear the world wonder , every day , at monsters of ingratitude . 
for four and twenty hours at a stretch , and never wished it done . 
She had known it all along . 
She had seen it from the first . 
She had always predicted it . 
She had been aware of it before the principals . 
'that young Willet is certainly looking after our Dolly , and I must look after HIM . 
so exceedingly minute that nobody else could make anything out of them even now and had , it seemed from first to last , displayed the most unbounded tact and most consummate generalship . 
Joe , as in duty bound , would hear of nobody but himself going to open it and accordingly left the room for that purpose . 
'Is anybody going to open that door ? cried the locksmith . 
'Well , said the locksmith , when he reappeared 'what is it ? eh Joe ? what are you laughing at ? 'Nothing , sir . 
, raised her eyes devotedly to the ceiling , and shed a flood of tears . 
'The old story ! cried the locksmith , looking at her in inexpressible desperation . 
When his eyes got back to Miggs , they rested on her fascinated . 
'My dear , said the locksmith to his wife . 
'Do you desire this ? 'I desire it ! she answered . 
'I am astonished I am amazed at her audacity . 
Let her leave the house this moment . 
'You hear what your mistress says , my love , remarked the locksmith . 
'You had better go , I think . 
Stay take this with you , for the sake of old service . 
and , tossing her head , as she looked at Mrs Varden , repeated 'Ho , good gracious ! 'I think you said that once before , my dear , observed the locksmith . 
Of course I never to my knowledge see the poor person himself . 
Nor did you neither , mim ho no . 
I wonder who it can be don't you , mim ? No doubt you do , mim . 
He he he ! Again Miggs paused for a reply and none being offered , was so oppressed with teeming spite and spleen , that she seemed like to burst . 
'I'm glad Miss Dolly can laugh , cried Miggs with a feeble titter . 
I would have two arms . 
'It's a thing to laugh at , Martha , not to care for , whispered the locksmith , as he followed his wife to the window , and good humouredly dried her eyes . 
'What does it matter ? You had seen your fault before . 
He looked much older , and more care worn . 
Agitation and anxiety of mind scatter wrinkles and grey hairs with no unsparing hand but deeper traces follow on the silent uprooting of old habits , and severing of dear , familiar ties . 
The affections may not be so easily wounded as the passions , but their hurts are deeper , and more lasting . 
He was now a solitary man , and the heart within him was dreary and lonesome . 
He was not the less alone for having spent so many years in seclusion and retirement . 
This was no better preparation than a round of social cheerfulness perhaps it even increased the keenness of his sensibility . 
The effort he had made to part from her with seeming cheerfulness and hope and they had parted only yesterday left him the more depressed . 
Such conditions of the mind as that to which he was a prey when he lay down to rest , are favourable to the growth of disordered fancies , and uneasy visions . 
This disquiet , however , lingered about him , and would yield to nothing . 
The sun was up , before he could shake it off . 
He rose late , but not refreshed , and remained within doors all that day . 
At such an hour as would afford him time to reach it a little before sunset , he left the inn , and turned into the busy street . 
The man was sorry to have disobliged him , and would carry it back again . 
The gentleman had said that he was going a little way into the country , and that he might not return until late . 
The roads were not very safe for single travellers after dark and , since the riots , gentlemen had been more careful than ever , not to trust themselves unarmed in lonely places . 
Arriving there in due course , he alighted and pursued his way on foot . 
'The old house will brighten up now , he said , as he looked towards it , 'and there will be a merry fireside beneath its ivied roof . 
It is some comfort to know that everything will not be blighted hereabouts . 
I shall be glad to have one picture of life and cheerfulness to turn to , in my mind ! He resumed his walk , and bent his steps towards the Warren . 
The sky was radiant with the softened glory of sunset and on the earth , and in the air , a deep repose prevailed . 
At such an hour , he arrived at the deserted mansion which had been his home so long , and looked for the last time upon its blackened walls . 
It was by this time almost dark . 
He had nearly made the circuit of the building , when he uttered a half suppressed exclamation , started , and stood still . 
All consideration , reflection , mercy , forbearance everything by which a goaded man can curb his rage and passion fled from him as he turned back . 
'Strange ? The most remarkable and singular thing in the world . 
I never ride in the evening I have not done so for years . 
The whim seized me , quite unaccountably , in the middle of last night . 
How very picturesque this is ! He pointed , as he spoke , to the dismantled house , and raised his glass to his eye . 
'You praise your own work very freely . 
'Work ! echoed Sir John , looking smilingly round . 
'Mine ! I beg your pardon , I really beg your pardon 'Why , you see , said Mr Haredale , 'those walls . 
You see those tottering gables . 
You see on every side where fire and smoke have raged . 
You see the destruction that has been wanton here . 
Do you not ? 'My good friend , returned the knight , gently checking his impatience with his hand , 'of course I do . 
I see everything you speak of , when you stand aside , and do not interpose yourself between the view and me . 
I am very sorry for you . 
If I had not had the pleasure to meet you here , I think I should have written to tell you so . 
But you don't bear it as well as I had expected excuse me no , you don't indeed . 
You are removed , a long way , from the frailties of the crowd . 
You contemplate them from a height , and rail at them with a most impressive bitterness . 
'And shall again , said Mr Haredale . 
'Thank you , returned the other . 
'Shall we walk as we talk ? The damp falls rather heavily . 
Well , as you please . 
But I grieve to say that I can spare you only a very few moments . 
'I would , said Mr Haredale , 'you had spared me none . 
, rather than here to night . 
'Nay , returned the other 'really you do yourself injustice . 
You are a rough companion , but I would not go so far to avoid you . 
'Listen to me , said Mr Haredale . 
'While you rail ? inquired Sir John . 
'While I deliver your infamy . 
as he has been to all others . 
With hints , and looks , and crafty words , which told again are nothing , you set on Gashford to this work this work before us now . 
'You will take notice , sir if you can discriminate sufficiently that I have taken the trouble to deny nothing . 
I speak of a long time ago , but you understand me . 
'Disguise it as you will , you mean denial . 
Denial explicit or reserved , expressed or left to be inferred , is still a lie . 
You say you don't deny . 
in terms which relieve me from the necessity of making any further allusion to him . 
You may have been warranted you may not have been I can't say . 
You are so very plain yourself , that you will excuse a little freedom in me , I am sure . 
'Attend to me again , Sir John but once , cried Mr Haredale 'in your every look , and word , and gesture , you tell me this was not your act . 
You talk of degradation and character . 
you had gone to tempt them , and had found them flown . 
To you I traced the insinuation that I alone reaped any harvest from my brother's death and all the foul attacks and whispered calumnies that followed in its train . 
In every action of my life , from that first hope which you converted into grief and desolation , you have stood , like an adverse fate , between me and peace . 
In all , you have ever been the same cold blooded , hollow , false , unworthy villain . 
In the act of striking him , the torrent of his opponent's rage had reached a stop . 
He parried his rapid thrusts , without returning them , and called to him , with a frantic kind of terror in his face , to keep back . 
'Not to night ! not to night ! he cried . 
'In God's name , not tonight ! Seeing that he lowered his weapon , and that he would not thrust in turn , Sir John lowered his . 
'Not to night ! his adversary cried . 
Do not force me to renew this duel to night ! 'You said my wretched son , I think ? said Sir John , with a smile . 
'Poor fool ! The dupe of such a shallow knave trapped into marriage by such an uncle and by such a niece he well deserves your pity . 
But he is no longer a son of mine you are welcome to the prize your craft has made , sir . 
Haredale , I have always despised you , as you know , but I have given you credit for a species of brute courage . 
For the honour of my judgment , which I had thought a good one , I am sorry to find you a coward . 
Not another word was spoken on either side . 
They crossed swords , though it was now quite dusk , and attacked each other fiercely . 
They were well matched , and each was thoroughly skilled in the management of his weapon . 
After a few seconds they grew hotter and more furious , and pressing on each other inflicted and received several slight wounds . 
Their eyes met , and were on each other as he drew it out . 
He put his arm about the dying man , who repulsed him , feebly , and dropped upon the turf . 
Mr Haredale fled that night . 
Before pursuit could be begun , indeed before Sir John was traced or missed , he had left the kingdom . 
Two days elapsed before the body of Sir John was found . 
In this career he met with great success , and would certainly have married an heiress in the end , but for an unlucky check which led to his premature decease . 
He sank under a contagious disorder , very prevalent at that time , and vulgarly termed the jail fever . 
Lord George Gordon , remaining in his prison in the Tower until Monday the fifth of February in the following year , was on that day solemnly tried at Westminster for High Treason . 
In the year he was stimulated by some new insanity to write and publish an injurious pamphlet , reflecting on the Queen of France , in very violent terms . 
Many men with fewer sympathies for the distressed and needy , with less abilities and harder hearts , have made a shining figure and left a brilliant fame . 
There are wise men in the highways of the world who may learn something , even from this poor crazy lord who died in Newgate . 
To the last , he was truly served by bluff John Grueby . 
John was at his side before he had been four and twenty hours in the Tower , and never left him until he died . 
Gashford deserted him , of course . 
As one of these wretched underlings , he did his drudgery , sometimes abroad , sometimes at home , and long endured the various miseries of such a station . 
By the locksmith's advice and aid , he was established in business as a shoeblack , and opened shop under an archway near the Horse Guards . 
he lived in great domestic happiness , only chequered by those little storms which serve to clear the atmosphere of wedlock , and brighten its horizon . 
would retaliate by taking off his legs , and leaving him exposed to the derision of those urchins who delight in mischief . 
on such as had small feet also very remarkable for its ingenuity , and previously quite unknown . 
He never recovered the surprise the Rioters had given him , and remained in the same mental condition down to the last moment of his life . 
'I'm a going , Joseph , said Mr Willet , turning round upon the instant , 'to the Salwanners' and immediately gave up the ghost . 
Joe inherited the whole so that he became a man of great consequence in those parts , and was perfectly independent . 
Some time elapsed before Barnaby got the better of the shock he had sustained , or regained his old health and gaiety . 
But he recovered by degrees and although he could never separate his condemnation and escape from the idea of a terrific dream , he became , in other respects , more rational . 
Dating from the time of his recovery , he had a better memory and greater steadiness of purpose but a dark cloud overhung his whole previous existence , and never cleared away . 
He lived with his mother on the Maypole farm , tending the poultry and the cattle , working in a garden of his own , and helping everywhere . 
He was known to every bird and beast about the place , and had a name for every one . 
Grip soon recovered his looks , and became as glossy and sleek as ever . 
But he was profoundly silent . 
