Slaves cannot breathe in England if their lungs Receive our air , that moment they are free They touch our country , and their shackles fall . 
COWPER RUNNING A THOUSAND MILES FOR FREEDOM PREFACE . 
I beg those who would know the particulars of our journey , to peruse these pages . 
Without stopping to write a long apology for offering this little volume to the public , I shall commence at once to pursue my simple story . 
, CAMBRIDGE ROAD , HAMMERSMITH , LONDON . 
RUNNING A THOUSAND MILES FOR FREEDOM . 
PART I. God gave us only over beast , fish , fowl , Dominion absolute that right we hold By his donation . 
But man over man He made not lord such title to himself Reserving , human left from human free . 
MY wife and myself were born in different towns in the State of Georgia , which is one of the principal slave States . 
My wife's first master was her father , and her mother his slave , and the latter is still the slave of his widow . 
This separated my wife from her mother , and also from several other dear friends . 
But the incessant cruelty of her old mistress made the change of owners or treatment so desirable , that she did not grumble much at this cruel separation . 
, ever to recover its freedom . 
I have myself conversed with several slaves who told me that their parents were white and free but that they were stolen away from them and sold when quite young . 
Among them were Daniel Muller and his two daughters , Dorothea and Salome , whose mother had died on the passage . 
A few weeks later , his relatives , who had remained at New Orleans , learned that he had died of the fever of the country . 
They immediately sent for the two girls but they had disappeared , and the relatives , notwithstanding repeated and persevering inquiries and researches , could find no traces of them . 
They were at length given up for dead . 
Dorothea was never again heard of nor was any thing known of Salome from till . 
By all these witnesses , who appeared at the trial , the identity was fully established . 
Among the witnesses who appeared in Court was the midwife who had assisted at the birth of Salome . 
There was no trace of African descent in any feature of Salome Muller . 
She had long , straight , black hair , hazel eyes , thin lips , and a Roman nose . 
The complexion of her face and neck was as dark as that of the darkest brunette . 
Those parts of her person which had been shielded from the sun were compara tively white . 
Belmonte , the pretended owner of the girl , had obtained possession of her by an act of sale from John F. Miller , the planter in whose service Salome's father died . 
This Miller was a man of consideration and substance , owning large sugar estates , and bearing a high reputation for honour and honesty , and for indulgent treatment of his slaves . 
At the age of twenty , he made his escape , by running away , and happily succeeded in rejoining his parents . 
But Shakespeare , that great observer of human nature , says With caution judge of probabilities . 
Things deemed unlikely , e'en impossible , Experience often shews us to be true . 
My wife's new mistress was decidedly more humane than the majority of her class . 
My wife has always given her credit for not exposing her to many of the worst features of slavery . 
I believe a similar retribution to that which destroyed Sodom is hanging over the slaveholders . 
My sincere prayer is that they may not provoke God , by persisting in a reckless course of wicked ness , to pour out his consuming wrath upon them . 
I must now return to our history . 
But , oh ! what a happy meeting it will be on that day for those faithful souls . 
I say a happy meeting , because I never saw persons more devoted to the service of God than they . 
My old master also sold a dear brother and a sister , in the same manner as he did my father and mother . 
If a slave has a good trade , he will let or sell for more than a person without one , and many slave holders have their slaves taught trades on this account . 
My poor sister was sold first she was knocked down to a planter who resided at some distance in the country . 
Then I was called upon the stand . 
While the auctioneer was crying the bids , I saw the man that had purchased my sister getting her into a cart , to take her to his home . 
He sent me word back that he had some distance to go , and could not wait . 
I then turned to the auctioneer , fell upon my knees , and humbly prayed him to let me just step down and bid my last sister farewell . 
She made a farewell bow , and buried her face in her lap . 
This seemed more than I could bear . 
It appeared to swell my aching heart to its utmost . 
It would be to me a great and ever glorious achievement to restore my sister to our dear mother , from whom she was forcibly driven in early life . 
I was knocked down to the cashier of the bank to which we were mortgaged , and ordered to return to the cabinet shop where I previously worked . 
But the thought of the harsh auctioneer not allowing me to bid my dear sister farewell , sent red hot indignation darting like lightning through every vein . 
According to the law of Louisiana , A slave is one who is in the power of a master to whom he belongs . 
I have known slaves to be beaten to death , but as they died under moderate correction , it was quite lawful and of course the murderers were not interfered with . 
According to this law , if a slave , by the direction of his overseer , strike a white person who is beating said overseer's pig , the slave shall be wholly excused . 
In endeavouring to reconcile a girl to her fate , the master sometimes says that he would marry her if it was not unlawful . 
There are several cases on record where such persons have been sold and separated for life . 
I know of some myself , but I have only space to glance at one . 
They brought up a family of children , among whom were three nearly white , well edu cated , and beautiful girls . 
But , poor creatures , they were soon sadly unde ceived . 
A verdict was given in favour of the plaintiff , whom the better portion of the community thought had wilfully conspired to cheat the family . 
According to law , as will be seen hereafter , a slave cannot own any thing . 
The old lady never recovered from her sad affliction . 
The lady , wishing to remonstrate with him , com menced by saying , You should remember , Sir , that there is a just God . 
Hoskens not under standing Mrs. Huston , interrupted her by saying , I does , and guess its monstrous kind an' him to send such likely niggers for our convenience . 
Mrs. Huston finding that a long course of reckless wickedness , drunkenness , and vice , had destroyed in Hoskens every noble impulse , left him . 
Antoinette , poor girl , also seeing that there was no help for her , became frantic . 
I can never forget her cries of despair , when Hoskens gave the order for her to be taken to his house , and locked in an upper room . 
On Hoskens entering the apart ment , in a state of intoxication , a fearful struggle ensued . 
The brave Antoinette broke loose from him , pitched herself head foremost through the window , and fell upon the pavement below . 
Antoinette like many other noble women who are deprived of liberty , still Holds something sacred , something undefiled Some pledge and keepsake of their higher nature . 
And , like the diamond in the dark , retains Some quenchless gleam of the celestial light . 
But Mary is rather delicate , said Mrs. Huston , and , being unaccustomed to hard work , cannot do you much service on a plantation . 
I don't want her for the field , replied Slator , but for another purpose . 
If the critter behaves herself , I'll do as well by her as any man . 
Their dear little twin brother and sister were sold , and taken where they knew not . 
But it often happens that mis fortune causes those whom we counted dearest to shrink away while it makes friends of those whom we least expected to take any interest in our affairs . 
Among the latter class Frank found two comparatively new but faithful friends to watch the gloomy paths of the unhappy little twins . 
But they had not proceeded many miles , before Frank and his sister discovered that Slator was too drunk to drive . 
Frank and Mary there and then contrived a plan by which to escape . 
They then dragged him into the woods , tied him to a tree , and left the inebriated robber to shift for himself , while they made good their escape to Savannah . 
The fugitives being white , of course no one suspected that they were slaves . 
A person informed Slator that he had met a man and woman , in a trap , answering to the description of those whom he had lost , driving furiously towards Savannah . 
So Slator and several slavehunters on horseback started off in full tilt , with their blood hounds , in pursuit of Frank and Mary . 
On arriving at Savannah , the hunters found that the fugitives had sold the horses and trap , and embarked as free white persons , for New York . 
Slator's disappointment and rascality so preyed upon his base mind , that he , like Judas , went and hanged himself . 
As soon as Frank and Mary were safe , they endeavoured to redeem their good mother . 
But , alas ! she was gone she had passed on to the realm of spirit life . 
In due time Frank learned from his friends in Georgia where his little brother and sister dwelt . 
So he wrote at once to purchase them , but the persons with whom they lived would not sell them . 
I saw Frank myself , when he came for the little twins . 
Though I was then quite a lad , I well remember being highly delighted by hearing him tell how nicely he and Mary had served Slator . 
Emma was silent for a space , as if 'Twere hard to summon up a human voice . 
Frank and Mary's mother was my wife's own dear aunt . 
After this great diversion from our narrative , which I hope dear reader , you will excuse , I shall return at once to it . 
My wife was torn from her mother's embrace in childhood , and taken to a distant part of the country . 
We thought of plan after plan , but they all seemed crowded with insurmountable difficulties . 
We knew it was unlawful for any public convey ance to take us as passengers , without our master's consent . 
It is a fact worthy of remark , that nothing seems to give the slaveholders so much pleasure as the catching and torturing of fugitives . 
The greatest excitement prevails at a slave hunt . 
The slaveholders and their hired ruffians appear to take more pleasure in this inhuman pursuit than English sportsmen do in chasing a fox or a stag . 
After I thought of the plan , I sug gested it to my wife , but at first she shrank from the idea . 
She thought it was almost impossible for her to assume that disguise , and travel a dis tance of , miles across the slave States . 
How ever , on the other hand , she also thought of her condition . 
Therefore the more she contemplated her helpless condition , the more anxious she was to escape from it . 
There fore , if you will purchase the disguise , I will try to carry out the plan . 
But after I concluded to purchase the disguise , I was afraid to go to any one to ask him to sell me the articles . 
It is unlawful in Georgia for a white man to trade with slaves without the master's con sent . 
But , notwithstanding this , many persons will sell a slave any article that he can get the money to buy . 
Not that they sympathize with the slave , but merely because his testimony is not admitted in court against a free white person . 
and took them home to the house where my wife resided . 
No one about the premises knew that she had anything of the kind . 
So when we fancied we had everything ready the time was fixed for the flight . 
But we knew it would not do to start off without first getting our master's con sent to be away for a few days . 
Had we left with out this , they would soon have had us back into slavery , and probably we should never have got another fair opportunity of even attempting to escape . 
On reaching my wife's cottage she handed me her pass , and I showed mine , but at that time neither of us were able to read them . 
The following case will serve to show how per sons are treated in the most enlightened slavehold ing community . 
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA , In the Circuit NORFOLK COUNTY , ss . 
VICTOR VAGABOND , Prosecuting Attorney . 
Adams , or dered the sheriff to place Mrs. Douglass in the prisoner's box , when he addressed her as follows 'Margaret Douglass , stand up . 
You are guilty of one of the vilest crimes that ever disgraced society and the jury have found you so . 
You have taught a slave girl to read in the Bible . 
No enlightened society can exist where such offences go unpun ished . 
The Court , in your case , do not feel for you one solitary ray of sympathy , and they will inflict on you the utmost penalty of the law . 
The sentence for your offence is , that you be imprisoned one month in the county jail , and that you pay the costs of this prosecution . 
Sheriff , remove the prisoner to jail . 
Smith's plantation in Georgia , among his slaves while the Journal of Commerce commended this political preaching of the Doctors of Divinity because it favoured slavery . 
Let us do nothing to offend our Southern brethren . 
She said , I think I can make a poultice and bind up my right hand in a sling , and with propriety ask the officers to register my name for me . 
I thought that would do . 
This nearly hid the expression of the countenance , as well as the beardless chin . 
The poultice is left off in the engraving , because the likeness could not have been taken well with it on . 
This was in the evening . 
We sat up all night discussing the plan , and making preparations . 
I found that she made a most respectable looking gentleman . 
We knew that no public conveyance would take us , or any other slave , as a passenger , without our master's consent . 
This consent could never be obtained to pass into a free State . 
My wife's being muffled in the poultices , c . 
, furnished a plausible excuse for avoiding general conversation , of which most Yankee travellers are passionately fond . 
On his refusing to do this , the poor slave may be legally and severely flogged by public officers . 
Should the prisoner prove to be a free man , he is most likely to be both whipped and fined . 
The great majority of slaveholders hate this class of persons with a hatred that can only be equalled by the condemned spirits of the infernal regions . 
They have no mercy upon , nor sympathy for , any negro whom they cannot enslave . 
are God's chosen agents to pour out upon them unlimited vengeance . 
For instance , a Bill has been introduced in the Tennessee Legislature to prevent free negroes from travelling on the rail roads in that State . 
It has passed the first reading . 
The State of Arkansas has passed a law to banish all free negroes from its bounds , and it came into effect on the st day of January , . 
Every free negro found there after that date will be liable to be sold into slavery , the crime of freedom being unpardon able . 
Mis sissippi , Kentucky , and Georgia , and in fact , I be lieve , all the slave States , are legislating in the same manner . 
Such mean legislation is too low for comment therefore I leave the villainous acts to speak for themselves . 
But the Dred Scott decision is the crowning act of infamous Yankee legislation . 
That is to say , in the opinion of this Court , robbery , rape , and murder are not crimes when committed by a white upon a coloured person . 
Had we not been sustained by a kind , and I sometimes think special , providence , we could never have overcome the mountainous difficulties which I am now about to describe . 
After this we rose and stood for a few moments in breathless silence , we were afraid that some one might have been about the cottage listening and watching our movements . 
So I took my wife by the hand , stepped softly to the door , raised the latch , drew it open , and peeped out . 
Though there were trees all around the house , yet the foliage scarcely moved in fact , everything appeared to be as still as death . 
I turned and asked what was the matter she made no reply , but burst into violent sobs , and threw her head upon my breast . 
This appeared to touch my very heart , it caused me to enter into her feelings more fully than ever . 
We then opened the door , and stepped as softly out as moonlight upon the water . 
I locked the door with my own key , which I now have before me , and tiptoed across the yard into the street . 
We shook hands , said farewell , and started in different directions for the railway station . 
took a longer way round , and only arrived there with the bulk of the passengers . 
He obtained a ticket for himself and one for his slave to Savannah , the first port , which was about two hundred miles off . 
My master then had the luggage stowed away , and stepped into one of the best carriages . 
He stepped up to the ticket seller , and asked some question , and then com menced looking rapidly through the passengers , and into the carriages . 
Fully believing that we were caught , I shrank into a corner , turned my face from the door , and expected in a moment to be dragged out . 
The doors of the American railway carriages are at the ends . 
The passengers walk up the aisle , and take seats on either side and as my master was engaged in looking out of the window , he did not see who came in . 
My master's first impression , after seeing Mr. Cray , was , that he was there for the purpose of securing him . 
After a little while , Mr. Cray said to my master , It is a very fine morning , sir . 
The latter took no notice , but kept looking out of the window . 
Mr. Cray soon repeated this remark , in a little louder tone , but my master remained as before . 
This indifference attracted the attention of the passengers near , one of whom laughed out . 
My master turned his head , and with a polite bow said , Yes , and commenced looking out of the window again . 
One of the gentlemen remarked that it was a very great deprivation to be deaf . 
Yes , replied Mr. Cray , and I shall not trouble that fellow any more . 
This enabled my master to breathe a little easier , and to feel that Mr. Cray was not his pur suer after all . 
The gentlemen then turned the conversation upon the three great topics of discussion in first class circles in Georgia , namely , Niggers , Cotton , and the Abolitionists . 
My master had often heard of abolitionists , but in such a connection as to cause him to think that they were a fearful kind of wild animal . 
Without the slightest objection on my master's part , the gentlemen left the carriage at Gordon , for Milledgeville . 
We arrived at Savannah early in the evening , and got into an omnibus , which stopped at the hotel for the passengers to take tea . 
We did this as an excuse for my master's retiring to bed so early . 
While at the stove one of the passengers said to me , Buck , what have you got there ? Opodel doc , sir , I replied . 
He said there was no place provided for coloured passengers , whether slave or free . 
He was seated at the right hand of the captain , who , together with all the passengers , inquired very kindly after his health . 
As my master had one hand in a sling , it was my duty to carve his food . 
But when I went out the captain said , You have a very attentive boy , sir but you had better watch him like a hawk when you get on to the North . 
He seems all very well here , but he may act quite differently there . 
I know several gentlemen who have lost their valuable niggers among them d d cut throat abolitionists . 
I have had a deal to do with niggers in my time , but I never saw one who ever had his heel upon free soil that was worth a d n . 
So I tell ye , stranger , again , you had better sell , and let me take him down to Orleans . 
My master said , I think not , sir I have great confidence in his fidelity . 
FiDEVIL , indignantly said the dealer , as his fist came down upon the edge of the saucer and upset a cup of hot coffee in a gentleman's lap . 
It always makes me mad to hear a man talking about fidelity in niggers . 
There isn't a d d one on 'em who wouldn't cut sticks , if he had half a chance . 
By this time we were near Charleston my master thanked the captain for his advice , and they all withdrew and went on deck , where the trader fancied he became quite eloquent . 
Good ! said an insignificant looking individual of the slave dealer stamp . 
Three cheers for John C. Calhoun and the whole fair sunny South ! added the trader . 
So off went their hats , and out burst a terrific roar of irregular but con tinued cheering . 
My master took no more notice of the dealer . 
He merely said to the captain that the air on deck was too keen for him , and he would therefore return to the cabin . 
On my master entering the cabin he found at the breakfast table a young southern military officer , with whom he had travelled some distance the pre vious day . 
After passing the usual compliments the conver sation turned upon the old subject , niggers . 
I assure you , sir , nothing spoils a slave so soon as saying , 'thank you' and 'if you please' to him . 
Don't you see , when I speak to my Ned , he darts like lightning and if he didn't I'd skin him . 
Just then the poor dejected slave came in , and the officer swore at him fearfully , merely to teach my master what he called the proper way to treat me . 
After he had gone out to get his master's lug gage ready , the officer said , That is the way to speak to them . 
If every nigger was drilled in this manner , they would be as humble as dogs , and never dare to run away . 
The gentleman urged my master not to go to the North for the restoration of his health , but to visit the Warm Springs in Arkansas . 
My master said , he thought the air of Phila delphia would suit his complaint best and , not only so , he thought he could get better advice there . 
The boat had now reached the wharf . 
The officer wished my master a safe and pleasant jour ney , and left the saloon . 
My master then eased himself out , and with their assistance found no trouble in getting up the steps into the hotel . 
The proprietor made me stand on one side , while he paid my master the attention and homage he thought a gentleman of his high position merited . 
My master asked for a bed room . 
The servant was ordered to show a good one , into which we helped him . 
My master then handed me the bandages , I took them down stairs in great haste , and told the landlord my master wanted two hot poultices as quickly as possible . 
I placed them in white handker chiefs , and hurried upstairs , went into my master's apartment , shut the door , and laid them on the mantel piece . 
As he was alone for a little while , he thought he could rest a great deal better with the poultices off . 
However , it was necessary to have them to complete the remainder of the journey . 
I then ordered dinner , and took my master's boots out to polish them . 
While doing so I en tered into conversation with one of the slaves . 
I may state here , that on the sea coast of South Carolina and Georgia the slaves speak worse Eng lish than in any other part of the country . 
This is owing to the frequent importation , or smug gling in , of Africans , who mingle with the natives . 
Consequently the language cannot properly be called English or African , but a corruption of the two . 
? I replied , To Philadelphia . 
What ! he exclaimed , with astonishment , to Philumadelphy ? Yes , I said . 
When you gets de freedom , and sitin under your own wine and fig tree , don't forget to pray for poor Pompey . 
At the proper time my master had the poultices placed on , came down , and seated himself at a table in a very brilliant dining room , to have his dinner . 
I said , Yes , he is some pumpkins , meaning the same as big bug . 
However , as we had also heard of the Overland Mail Route , we were all right . 
When we reached the building , I helped my master into the office , which was crowded with passengers . 
He asked for a ticket for himself and one for his slave to Philadelphia . 
My master paid the dollar , and pointing to the hand that was in the poultice , requested the officer to register his name for him . 
This seemed to offend the high bred South Carolinian . 
He jumped up , shaking his head and , cramming his hands almost through the bottom of his trousers pockets , with a slave bullying air , said , I shan't do it . 
This attracted the attention of all the passengers . 
like a book and as the officer was known in Charleston , and was going to stop there with friends , the recognition was very much in my master's favor . 
He asked my master's name . 
He said , William Johnson . 
The names were put down , I think , Mr. Johnson and slave . 
The captain said , It's all right now , Mr. Johnson . 
When the gentleman finds out his mistake , he will , I have no doubt , be careful in future not to pretend to have an intimate acquaintance with an entire stranger . 
During the voyage the captain said , It was rather sharp shooting this morning , Mr. Johnson . 
It was not out of any disrespect to you , sir but they make it a rule to be very strict at Charleston . 
I have known families to be detained there with their slaves till reliable information could be received respecting them . 
If they were not very careful , any d d abolitionist might take off a lot of valuable niggers . 
My master said , I suppose so , and thanked him again for helping him over the difficulty . 
We reached Wilmington the next morning , and took the train for Richmond , Virginia . 
, are constructed differently to those in England . 
But before the train started , the gentle man stepped into my car , and questioned me respect ing my master . 
He wished to know what was the matter with him , where he was from , and where he was going . 
The gentleman said my master could obtain the very best advice in Philadelphia . 
Which turned out to be quite correct , though he did not receive it from physicians , but from kind abolitionists who understood his case much better . 
The gentleman also said , I reckon your master's father hasn't any more such faithful and smart boys as you . 
O , yes , sir , he has , I replied , lots on 'em . 
This seemed all he wished to know . 
He thanked me , gave me a ten cent piece , and requested me to be attentive to my good master . 
I promised that I would do so , and have ever since endeavoured to keep my pledge . 
During the gentleman's absence , the ladies and my master had a little cosy chat . 
But on his return , he said , You seem to be very much afflicted , sir . 
Yes , sir , replied the gentleman in the poultices . 
What seems to be the matter with you , sir may I be allowed to ask ? Inflammatory rheumatism , sir . 
Oh ! that is very bad , sir , said the kind gentleman I can sympathise with you for I know from bitter experience what the rheumatism is . 
If he did , he knew a good deal more than Mr. Johnson . 
The gentleman thought my master would feel better if he would lie down and rest himself and as he was anxious to avoid conversation , he at once acted upon this suggestion . 
The ladies politely rose , took their extra shawls , and made a nice pillow for the invalid's head . 
My master wore a fashionable cloth cloak , which they took and covered him comfortably on the couch . 
They then insisted upon Mr. Johnson taking some of their refreshments , which of course he did , out of courtesy to the ladies . 
All went on enjoying themselves until they reached Richmond , where the ladies and their father left the train . 
Mr. Johnson expressed his gratitude for the prof fered hospitality , and said he should feel glad to call on his return . 
I have not the slightest doubt that he will fulfil the promise whenever that return takes place . 
After changing trains we went on a little beyond Fredericksburg , and took a steamer to Washington . 
to one of the firstest families , stepped into the carriage , and took a seat near my master . 
Oh ! I was as kind to him as if he had been my own son . 
Oh ! sir , it grieves me very much to think that after all I did for him he should go off without having any cause whatever . 
When did he leave you ? asked Mr. Johnson . 
About eighteen months ago , and I have never seen hair or hide of him since . 
Did he have a wife ? enquired a very respect able looking young gentleman , who was sitting near my master and opposite to the lady . 
No , sir not when he left , though he did have one a little before that . 
She was very unlike him she was as good and as faithful a nigger as any one need wish to have . 
I suppose she was very glad to go South for the restoration of her health ? said the gentleman . 
No she was not , replied the lady , for niggers never know what is best for them . 
She took on a great deal about leaving Ned and the little nigger but , as she was so weakly , I let her go . 
Was she good looking ? asked the young pas senger , who was evidently not of the same opinion as the talkative lady , and therefore wished her to tell all she knew . 
Yes she was very handsome , and much whiter than I am and therefore will have no trouble in getting another husband . 
I am sure I wish her well . 
I asked the speculator who bought her to sell her to a good master . 
Poor thing ! she has my prayers , and I know she prays for me . 
She was a good Christian , and always used to pray for my soul . 
This caused the lady to snuffle and to draw from her pocket a richly embroidered handkerchief , and apply it to the corner of her eyes . 
But my master could not see that it was at all soiled . 
I have no patience with people who set niggers at liberty . 
It is the very worst thing you can do for them . 
My dear husband just before he died willed all his niggers free . 
It always seems to me such a cruel thing to turn niggers loose to shift for themselves , when there are so many good masters to take care of them . 
As for myself , continued the considerate lady , I thank the Lord my dear husband left me and my son well provided for . 
I have lost no less than ten since my poor husband died . 
It's ruinous , sir ! But as you are well provided for , I suppose you do not feel the loss very much , said the pas senger . 
I don't feel it at all , haughtily continued the good soul but that is no reason why property should be squandered . 
This I have concluded to do . 
I have just been to Rich mond and made arrangements with my agent to make clean work of the forty that are left . 
Your son being a good Christian minister , said the gentleman , It's strange he did not advise you to let the poor negroes have their liberty and go North . 
It's not at all strange , sir it's not at all strange . 
My son knows what's best for the nig gers he has always told me that they were much better off than the free niggers in the North . 
In fact , I don't believe there are any white labouring people in the world who are as well off as the slaves . 
You are quite mistaken , madam , said the young man . 
For instance , my own widowed mother , before she died , emancipated all her slaves , and sent them to Ohio , where they are getting along well . 
I saw several of them last summer myself . 
The gentleman got out at the next station beyond . 
Just look at the quality on it the President couldn't wear a better . 
I should just like to go and kick it overboard . 
His friend touched him , and said , Don't speak so to a gentleman . 
Why not ? exclaimed the fellow . 
Washington is run away with SPILED and free niggers . 
If I had my way I would sell every d d rascal of 'em way down South , where the devil would be whipped out on 'em . 
This man's fierce manner made my master feel rather nervous , and therefore he thought the less he said the better so he walked off without making any reply . 
In a few minutes we were landed at Washington , where we took a conveyance and hurried off to the train for Baltimore . 
We left our cottage on Wednesday morning , the st of December , , and arrived at Baltimore , Saturday evening , the th . 
Baltimore was the last slave port of any note at which we stopped . 
On arriving there we felt more anxious than ever , because we knew not what that last dark night would bring forth . 
They are particularly watchful at Baltimore to prevent slaves from escaping into Pennsylvania , which is a free State . 
Well , what are you going there for ? I am travelling with my master , who is in the next carriage , sir . 
Well , I calculate you had better get him out and be mighty quick about it , because the train will soon be starting . 
It is against my rules to let any man take a slave past here , unless he can satisfy them in the office that he has a right to take him along . 
The officer then passed on and left me standing upon the platform , with my anxious heart apparently palpitating in the throat . 
At first I scarcely knew which way to turn . 
But it soon occurred to me that the good God , who had been with us thus far , would not forsake us at the eleventh hour . 
So with renewed hope I stepped into my master's carriage , to inform him of the difficulty . 
I found him sitting at the farther end , quite alone . 
As soon as he looked up and saw me , he smiled . 
I also tried to wear a cheerful countenance , in order to break the shock of the sad news . 
I knew what made him smile . 
He said Much better , and that he thanked God we were getting on so nicely . 
I then said we were not getting on quite so well as we had anticipated . 
He anxiously and quickly asked what was the matter . 
We felt that our very existence was at stake , and that we must either sink or swim . 
But , as God was our present and mighty helper in this as well as in all former trials , we were able to keep our heads up and press forwards . 
Why is that ? asked my master , with more firmness than could be expected . 
This conversation attracted the attention of the large number of bustling passengers . 
He said , No and added , I bought tickets in Charleston to pass us through to Phila delphia , and therefore you have no right to detain us here . 
Well , sir , said the man , indignantly , right or no right , we shan't let you go . 
These sharp words fell upon our anxious hearts like the crack of doom , and made us feel that hope only smiles to deceive . 
For a few moments perfect silence prevailed . 
My master looked at me , and I at him , but neither of us dared to speak a word , for fear of making some blunder that would tend to our detection . 
While our hearts were crying lustily unto Him who is ever ready and able to save , the conductor of the train that we had just left stepped in . 
The officer asked if we came by the train with him from Washington he said we did , and left the room . 
Just then the bell rang for the train to leave and had it been the sudden shock of an earthquake it could not have given us a greater thrill . 
The sound of the bell caused every eye to flash with apparent interest , and to be more steadily fixed upon us than before . 
We will let him go . 
My master thanked him , and stepped out and hobbled across the platform as quickly as pos sible . 
I tumbled him unceremoniously into one of the best carriages , and leaped into mine just as the train was gliding off towards our happy desti nation . 
We thought of this plan about four days before we left Macon and as we had our daily employ ment to attend to , we only saw each other at night . 
So we sat up the four long nights talking over the plan and making preparations . 
We had also been four days on the journey and as we travelled night and day , we got but very limited opportunities for sleeping . 
The road was constructed so as to be raised or lowered to suit the tide . 
But when my master was asked to leave his seat , he found it very dark , and cold , and raining . 
He missed me for the first time on the journey . 
On all previous occasions , as soon as the train stopped , I was at hand to assist him . 
So he asked the conductor if he had seen anything of his slave . 
The man being somewhat of an abo litionist , and believing that my master was really a slaveholder , thought he would tease him a little respecting me . 
My master knew that there was nothing in this so he asked the conductor if he would please to see if he could find me . 
The man indignantly replied , I am no slave hunter and as far as I am concerned everybody must look after their own niggers . 
He went off and left the confused invalid to fancy whatever he felt in clined . 
My master at first thought I must have been kidnapped into slavery by some one , or left , or perhaps killed on the train . 
He also thought of stopping to see if he could hear anything of me , but he soon remembered that he had no money . 
The time was now up , so he went on board and came across with feelings that can be better imagined than described . 
He said , Your master is scared half to death about you . 
That frightened me still more I thought they had found him out so I anxiously inquired what was the matter . 
The guard said , He thinks you have run away from him . 
This made me feel quite at ease . 
I said , No , sir I am satisfied my good master doesn't think that . 
So off I started to see him . 
He had been fearfully nervous , but on seeing me he at once felt much better . 
He merely wished to know what had become of me . 
On returning to my seat , I found the conductor and two or three other persons amusing themselves very much respecting my running away . 
So the guard said , Boy , what did your master want ? I replied , He merely wished to know what had become of me . 
No , said the man , that was not it he thought you had taken French leave , for parts unknown . 
I never saw a fellow so badly scared about losing his slave in my life . 
Now , continued the guard , let me give you a little friendly advice . 
When you get to Philadelphia , run away and leave that cripple , and have your liberty . 
No , sir , I indifferently replied , I can't promise to do that . 
Why not ? said the I may state here that every man slave is called boy till he is very old , then the more respectable slaveholders call him uncle . 
The women are all girls till they are aged , then they are called aunts . 
This is the reason why Mrs. Stowe calls her characters Uncle Tom , Aunt Chloe , Uncle Tiff , c . 
conductor , evidently much surprised don't you want your liberty ? Yes , sir , I replied but I shall never run away from such a good master as I have at present . 
One of the men said to the guard , Let him alone I guess he will open his eyes when he gets to Philadelphia , and see things in another light . 
After giving me a good deal of information , which I afterwards found to be very useful , they left me alone . 
I thanked him kindly , but of course did not let him know who we were . 
I , like him , felt that the straps that bound the heavy burden to my back began to pop , and the load to roll off . 
So when we reached the house , she was in reality so weak and faint that she could scarcely stand alone . 
AFTER my wife had a little recovered herself , she threw off the disguise and assumed her own apparel . 
We then stepped into the sitting room , and asked to see the landlord . 
The man came in , but he seemed thunderstruck on finding a fugitive slave and his wife , instead of a young cotton planter and his nigger . 
As his eyes travelled round the room , he said to me , Where is your master ? I pointed him out . 
The man gravely replied , I am not joking , I really wish to see your master . 
I pointed him out again , but at first he could not believe his eyes he said he knew that was not the gentleman that came with me . 
But , after some conversation , we satisfied him that we were fugitive slaves , and had just escaped in the manner I have described . 
We asked him if he thought it would be safe for us to stop in Phila delphia . 
He said he thought not , but he would call in some persons who knew more about the laws than himself . 
He then went out , and kindly brought in several of the leading abolitionists of the city , who gave us a most hearty and friendly welcome amongst them . 
So we took the advice of our good Philadelphia friends , and settled at Boston . 
I shall have some thing to say about our sojourn there presently . 
Among other friends we met with at Philadel phia , was Robert Purves , Esq . 
This good Samaritan at once invited us to go and stop quietly with his family , till my wife could somewhat recover from the fearful reaction of the past journey . 
This was the first act of great and disinterested kindness we had ever received from a white person . 
But on arriving at the house , and finding out her mistake , she became more nervous and timid than ever . 
As the cart came into the yard , the dear good old lady , and her three charming and affectionate daughters , all came to the door to meet us . 
We got out , and the gentleman said , Go in , and make yourselves at home I will see after the baggage . 
But my wife was afraid to approach them . 
She stopped in the yard , and said to me , William , I thought we were coming among coloured people ? I replied , It is all right these are the same . 
She turned round and said , I am going right off . 
Come in , to the fire I dare say thou art cold and hungry after thy journey . 
We went in , and the young ladies asked if she would like to go upstairs and fix herself before tea . 
My wife said , No , I thank you I shall only stop a little while . 
But where art thou going this cold night ? said Mr. Ivens , who had just stepped in . 
I don't know , was the reply . 
Well , then , he continued , I think thou hadst better take off thy things and sit near the fire tea will soon be ready . 
don't be frightened , Ellen , I shall not hurt a single hair of thy head . 
We have heard with much pleasure of the marvel lous escape of thee and thy husband , and deeply sympathise with thee in all that thou hast under gone . 
After seeing Sally Ann and Jacob , two coloured domestics , my wife felt quite at home . 
After par taking of what Mrs. Stowe's Mose and Pete called a busting supper , the ladies wished to know whether we could read . 
On learning we could not , they said if we liked they would teach us . 
To this kind offer , of course , there was no objection . 
But we looked rather knowingly at each other , as much as to say that they would have rather a hard task to cram anything into our thick and matured skulls . 
However , all hands set to and quickly cleared away the tea things , and the ladies and their good brother brought out the spelling and copy books and slates , c . 
, and commenced with their new and green pupils . 
By so doing , at the end of the three weeks we remained with the good family we could spell and write our names quite legibly . 
When the time arrived for us to leave for Boston , it was like parting with our relatives . 
In , Congress passed the Fugitive Slave Bill , an enactment too infamous to have been thought of or tolerated by any people in the world , except the unprincipled and tyrannical Yankees . 
In no case is a person's evidence admitted in Court , in defence of his liberty , when arrested under this law . 
If the judge decides that the prisoner is a slave , he gets ten dollars but if he sets him at liberty , he only receives five . 
Our old masters sent agents to Boston after us . 
They took out warrants , and placed them in the hands of the United States Marshal to execute . 
But the following letter from our highly esteemed and faithful friend , the Rev . 
Samuel May , of Bos ton , to our equally dear and much lamented friend , Dr . 
Estlin of Bristol , will show why we were not taken into custody . 
, Cornhill , Boston , November th , . 
My dear Mr Estlin , I trust that in God's good providence this letter will be handed to you in safety by our good friends , William and Ellen Craft . 
They have lived amongst us about two years , and have proved themselves worthy , in all respects , of our confidence and regard . 
regard them only as slaves chattels personal property . 
But they nobly vindicated their title and right to freedom , two years since , by win ning their way to it at least , so they thought . 
Within a fortnight , two fellows from Macon , Georgia , have been in Boston for the purpose of arresting our friends William and Ellen . 
It is under stood that one of the judges told the Marshal that he would not be authorised in breaking the door of Craft's house . 
Craft kept himself close within the house , armed himself , and awaited with remarkable composure the event . 
Ellen , in the meantime , had been taken to a retired place out of the city . 
enlarged their numbers , held an almost permanent session , and appointed various sub committees to act in different ways . 
One of these committees called repeatedly on Messrs . 
Hughes and Knight , the slave catchers , and requested and advised them to leave the city . 
At first they peremptorily refused to do so , ''till they got hold of the niggers . 
At length , they became so alarmed , that they left the city by an indirect route , evading the vigilance of many persons who were on the look out for them . 
Hughes , at one time , was near losing his life at the hands of an infuriated coloured man . 
Is America the 'land of the free , and the home of the brave ? God knows it is not and we know it too . 
But I must pursue my plain , sad story . 
All day long , I have been busy planning a safe way for William and Ellen to leave Boston . 
This letter is written to introduce them to you . 
Hence forth , England is their nation and their home . 
But , with all the resolute courage they have shown in a most trying hour , they themselves see it is the part of a foolhardy rashness to attempt to stay here longer . 
I must close and with many renewed thanks for all your kind words and deeds towards us , I am , very respectfully yours , SAMUEL MAY , JUN . 
Mr. Filmore said that we should be returned . 
He gave instructions for military force to be sent to Boston to assist the officers in making the arrest . 
thought it best , at any sacrifice , to leave the mock free Republic , and come to a country where we and our dear little ones can be truly free . 
No one daring to molest or make us afraid . 
But , as the officers were watching every vessel that left the port to prevent us from escaping , we had to take the expensive and tedious overland route to Halifax . 
, and reduce us to the legal level of the beast that perisheth . 
On the passing of the Fugitive Slave Bill , the following learned doctors , as well as a host of lesser traitors , came out strongly in its defence . 
, in his vindi cation of this Bill , reminds his readers that many Southern slaveholders are true CHRISTIANS . 
That sending back a fugitive to them is not like restor ing one to an idolatrous people . 
That though we may PITY the fugitive , yet the Mosaic Law does not authorize the rejection of the claims of the slaveholders to their stolen or strayed PROPERTY . 
Orville Dewey , D. D. , of the Unitarian connexion , maintained in his lectures that the safety of the Union is not to be hazarded for the sake of the African race . 
If my espousal of your claim is likely to involve your race and mine together in disasters infinitely greater than your personal servitude , then you ought not to be free . 
In such a case personal rights ought to be sacrificed to the general good . 
You yourself ought to see this , and be willing to suffer for a while one for many . 
If the Doctor is prepared , he is quite at liberty to sacrifice his personal rights to the general good . 
But , as I have suffered a long time in slavery , it is hardly fair for the Doctor to advise me to go back . 
According to his showing , he ought rather to take my place . 
That would be practically carrying out his logic , as respects suffering awhile one for many . 
He shall dwell with thee , even among you , in that place which he shall choose in one of thy gates , where it liketh him best thou shalt not oppress him . 
Bewray not him that wan dereth . 
Let mine outcasts dwell with thee . 
Be thou a covert to them from the face of the spoiler . 
We are told that the whale vomited up the runaway prophet . 
I venerate the man whose heart is warm , Whose hands are pure whose doctrines and whose life Coincident , exhibit lucid proof That he is honest in the sacred cause . 
But grace abused brings forth the foulest deeds , As richest soil the most luxuriant weeds . 
I must now leave the reverend gentlemen in the hands of Him who knows best how to deal with a recreant ministry . 
I do not wish it to be understood that all the ministers of the States are of the Balaam stamp . 
During this time , we had the honour of being the guest of the late and much lamented Daniel Oliver , Esq . 
, one of the best and most hospi table men in the State . 
By simply fulfilling the Scripture injunction , to take in the stranger , c . 
, he ran the risk of incurring a penalty of , dollars , and twelve months' imprisonment . 
But neither the Fugitive Slave Law , nor any other Satanic enactment , can ever drive the spirit of liberty and humanity out of such noble and gene rous hearted men . 
May God ever bless his dear widow , and eventu ally unite them in His courts above ! We finally got off to St . 
John's , New Brunswick , where we had to wait two days for the steamer that conveyed us to Windsor , Nova Scotia . 
On going into a hotel at St . 
John's , we met the butler in the hall , to whom I said , We wish to stop here to night . 
He turned round , scratching his head , evidently much put about . 
But think ing that my wife was white , he replied , We have plenty of room for the lady , but I don't know about yourself we never take in coloured folks . 
Oh , don't trouble about me , I said if you have room for the lady , that will do so please have the luggage taken to a bed room . 
Which was immediately done , and my wife went upstairs into the apartment . 
After taking a little walk in the town , I returned , and asked to see the lady . 
On being conducted to the little sitting room , where she then was , I entered without knocking , much to the surprise of the whole house . 
The lady then rang the bell , and ordered dinner for two . 
Dinner for two , mum ! exclaimed the waiter , as he backed out of the door . 
Yes , for two , said my wife . 
In a little while the stout , red nosed butler , whom we first met , knocked at the door . 
I called out , Come in . 
This confused the chubby butler more than ever and , as the landlord was not in the house , he seemed at a loss what to do . 
Thank you , mum , continued the maid , and out she glided . 
was a fugitive slave , a very intelligent and active man , about forty five years of age . 
Soon after his marriage , while in slavery , his bride was sold away from him , and he could never learn where the poor creature dwelt . 
Her first words were , Dear , are you married ? On his answering in the affirmative , she shrank from his embrace , hung her head , and wept . 
A person who witnessed this meeting told me it was most affecting . 
This couple knew nothing of each other's escape or whereabouts . 
sympathise with each other's misfortune . 
John's two days , the steamer arrived , which took us to Windsor , where we found a coach bound for Halifax . 
Prejudice against colour forced me on the top in the rain . 
On arriving within about seven miles of the town , the coach broke down and was upset . 
All of us were scratched and bruised more or less . 
After the passengers had crawled out as best they could , we all set off , and paddled through the deep mud and cold and rain , to Halifax . 
John's , we had the misfortune to arrive at Halifax at dark , just two hours after the steamer had gone consequently we had to wait there a fortnight , for the Cambria . 
The coach was patched up , and reached Halifax with the luggage , soon after the passengers arrived . 
Knowing that we were still under the influence of the low Yankee prejudice , I sent my wife in with the other passengers , to engage a bed for herself and husband . 
I stopped outside in the rain till the coach came up . 
If I had gone in and asked for a bed they would have been quite full . 
But as they thought my wife was white , she had no difficulty in securing apartments , into which the luggage was afterwards carried . 
Oh ! I mean the black man the NIGGER ? I quite understand you he is my husband . 
My God ! exclaimed the woman as she flounced out and banged to the door . 
On going upstairs , I heard what had taken place but , as we were there , and did not mean to leave that night , we did not disturb ourselves . 
We replied that we were not particular , and that they could sent it up to our room , which they did . 
Some of them said they would not stop there a minute if there was another house to go to . 
The mistress came up the next morning to know how long we wished to stop . 
We said we were glad to hear that she had no prejudice , and was such a staunch friend to the coloured people . 
However , if she would get us a comfortable place , we would be glad to leave . 
The landlady said she would go out and try . 
Having a little foretaste of the vulgar prejudice of the town , we did not wonder at this result . 
However , the landlady gave me the address of some respectable coloured families , whom she thought , under the circumstances , might be induced to take us . 
And , as we were not at all comfortable being compelled to sit , eat and sleep , in the same small room we were quite willing to change our quarters . 
I called upon the Rev . 
Mr. Cannady , a truly good hearted Christian man , who received us at a word and both he and his kind lady treated us hand somely , and for a nominal charge . 
I had much worry about getting tickets , for they baffled us shamefully at the Cunard office . 
They at first said that they did not book till the steamer came which was not the fact . 
When I called again , they said they knew the steamer would come full from Boston , and therefore we had bet ter try to get to Liverpool by other means . 
So when we went on board my wife was very poorly , and was also so ill on the voyage that I did not believe she could live to see Liverpool . 
However , I am thankful to say she arrived and , after laying up at Liverpool very ill for two or three weeks , gradually recovered . 
It was not until we stepped upon the shore at Liverpool that we were free from every slavish fear . 
In a few days after we landed , the Rev . 
Francis Bishop and his lady came and invited us to be their guests to whose unlimited kindness and watchful care my wife owes , in a great degree , her restoration to health . 
We enclosed our letter from the Rev . 
Mr. May to Mr. Estlin , who at once wrote to invite us to his house at Bristol . 
On arriving there , both Mr. and Miss Estlin received us as cordially as did our first good Quaker friends in Pennsylvania . 
It grieves me much to have to mention that he is no more . 
It was principally through the extreme kindness of Mr. Estlin , the Right Hon . 
for the deep interest he took in trying to get me on in my studies . 
We shall ever fondly and gratefully cherish the memory of our endeared and departed friend , Mr. Estlin . 
We , as well as the Anti Slavery cause , lost a good friend in him . 
Therefore I cannot think thee wholly gone The better part of thee is with us still Thy soul its hampering clay aside hath thrown , And only freer wrestles with the ill . 
But I do now , however , most solemnly declare , that a very large majority of the American slaves are over worked , under fed , and frequently unmercifully flogged . 
I have often seen slaves tortured in every con ceivable manner . 
I have seen him hunted down and torn by bloodhounds . 
I have seen them shamefully beaten , and branded with hot irons . 
I have seen them hunted , and even burned alive at the stake , frequently for offences that would be applauded if committed by white persons for similar purposes . 
to me , come come , sculls . 
Baalam , Balaam , Baalam Balaam house . 
