Seek and serve them where they bide From Candlemas to Christmas tide , For these simples used aright Shall restore a failing sight . 
Their proper name , of course , is 'The People of the Hills' . 
In the stories that follow I am trying to tell something about those people . 
COLD IRON When Dan and Una had arranged to go out before breakfast , they did not remember that it was Midsummer Morning . 
They only wanted to see the otter which , old Hobden said , had been fishing their brook for weeks and early morning was the time to surprise him . 
As they tiptoed out of the house into the wonderful stillness , the church clock struck five . 
Dan took a few steps across the dew blobbed lawn , and looked at his black footprints . 
'I think we ought to be kind to our poor boots , 'he said . 
The sun was well up and warm , but by the brook the last of the night mist still fumed off the water . 
They picked up the chain of otter's footprints on the mud , and followed it from the bank , between the weeds and the drenched mowing , while the birds shouted with surprise . 
Then the track left the brook and became a smear , as though a log had been dragged along . 
'No use ! said Dan , questing like a puzzled hound . 
'The dew's drying off , and old Hobden says otters'll travel for miles . 
'I'm sure we've travelled miles . 
Una fanned herself with her hat . 
'How still it is ! It's going to be a regular roaster . 
She looked down the valley , where no chimney yet smoked . 
'Hobden's up ! Dan pointed to the open door of the Forge cottage . 
'What d'you suppose he has for breakfast ? 'One of them . 
He says they eat good all times of the year , Una jerked her head at some stately pheasants going down to the brook for a drink . 
A few steps farther on a fox broke almost under their bare feet , yapped , and trotted off . 
'Ah , Mus' Reynolds Mus' Reynolds' Dan was quoting from old Hobden , 'if I knowed all you knowed , I'd know something . 
See 'The Winged Hats' in PUCK OF POOK'S HILL . 
I say , Una lowered her voice 'you know that funny feeling of things having happened before . 
I felt it when you said Mus' Reynolds . 
'So did I , Dan began . 
'What is it ? They faced each other , stammering with excitement . 
'Wait a shake ! I'll remember in a minute . 
Wasn't it something about a fox last year ? Oh , I nearly had it then ! Dan cried . 
'Be quiet ! said Una , prancing excitedly . 
'There was something happened before we met the fox last year . 
Hills ! Broken Hills the play at the theatre see what you see 'I remember now , Dan shouted . 
'It's as plain as the nose on your face Pook's Hill Puck's Hill Puck ! 'I remember , too , said Una . 
'And it's Midsummer Day again ! The young fern on a knoll rustled , and Puck walked out , chewing a green topped rush . 
'Good Midsummer Morning to you ! Here's a happy meeting , said he . 
They shook hands all round , and asked questions . 
'You've wintered well , he said after a while , and looked them up and down . 
'Nothing much wrong with you , seemingly . 
'They've put us into boots , said Una . 
'Look at my feet they're all pale white , and my toes are squidged together awfully . 
'Yes boots make a difference . 
Puck wriggled his brown , square , hairy foot , and cropped a dandelion flower between the big toe and the next . 
'I could do that last year , Dan said dismally , as he tried and failed . 
'And boots simply ruin one's climbing . 
'There must be some advantage to them , I suppose , 'said Puck , or folk wouldn't wear them . 
Shall we come this way ? They sauntered along side by side till they reached the gate at the far end of the hillside . 
Here they halted just like cattle , and let the sun warm their backs while they listened to the flies in the wood . 
'Little Lindens is awake , said Una , as she hung with her chin on the top rail . 
'See the chimney smoke ? 'Today's Thursday , isn't it ? Puck turned to look at the old pink farmhouse across the little valley . 
Bread should rise well this weather . 
He yawned , and that set them both yawning . 
The bracken about rustled and ticked and shook in every direction . 
They felt that little crowds were stealing past . 
'Doesn't that sound like er the People of the Hills ? 'said Una . 
'It's the birds and wild things drawing up to the woods before people get about , said Puck , as though he were Ridley the keeper . 
'Oh , we know that . 
I only said it sounded like . 
'As I remember 'em , the People of the Hills used to make more noise . 
They'd settle down for the day rather like small birds settling down for the night . 
But that was in the days when they carried the high hand . 
Oh , me ! The deeds that I've had act and part in , you'd scarcely believe ! 'I like that ! said Dan . 
'After all you told us last year , too ! 'Only , the minute you went away , you made us forget everything , said Una . 
Puck laughed and shook his head . 
'I shall this year , too . 
Does that suit ? He twinkled mischievously . 
'It's got to suit , 'said Una , and laughed . 
'We Can't magic back at you . 
She folded her arms and leaned against the gate . 
'Suppose , now , you wanted to magic me into something an otter ? Could you ? 'Not with those boots round your neck . 
She threw them on the turf . 
'Less than ever now you've trusted me . 
Where there's true faith , there's no call for magic . 
Puck's slow smile broadened all over his face . 
'But what have boots to do with it ? said Una , perching on the gate . 
'There's Cold Iron in them , said Puck , and settled beside her . 
'Nails in the soles , I mean . 
'How ? 'Can't you feel it does ? You wouldn't like to go back to bare feet again , same as last year , would you ? Not really ? 'No o . 
I suppose I shouldn't not for always . 
I'm growing up , you know , said Una . 
'But you told us last year , in the Long Slip at the theatre that you didn't mind Cold Iron , 'said Dan . 
'I don't but folks in housen , as the People of the Hills call them , must be ruled by Cold Iron . 
That's how it goes with Flesh and Blood , and one can't prevent it . 
How do you mean ? 'said Dan . 
'It would take me some time to tell you . 
'Oh , it's ever so long to breakfast , said Dan . 
'We looked in the larder before we came out . 
He unpocketed one big hunk of bread and Una another , which they shared with Puck . 
'That's Little Lindens' baking , he said , as his white teeth sunk in it . 
'I know Mrs Vincey's hand . 
He ate with a slow sideways thrust and grind , just like old Hobden , and , like Hobden , hardly dropped a crumb . 
The sun flashed on Little Lindens' windows , and the cloudless sky grew stiller and hotter in the valley . 
'AH Cold Iron , he said at last to the impatient children . 
'Folk in housen , as the People of the Hills say , grow careless about Cold Iron . 
They'll nail the Horseshoe over the front door , and forget to put it over the back . 
Then , some time or other , the People of the Hills slip in , find the cradle babe in the corner , and 'Oh , I know . 
Steal it and leave a changeling , 'Una cried . 
'No , said Puck firmly . 
'All that talk of changelings is people's excuse for their own neglect . 
I'd whip 'em at the cart tail through three parishes if I had my way . 
'But they don't do it now , said Una . 
'Whip , or neglect children ? Umm ! Some folks and some fields never alter . 
But the People of the Hills didn't work any changeling tricks . 
That's no advantage to man or maid . 
So I wouldn't allow it with my folks' babies here . 
I told Sir Huon so once . 
'Who was Sir Huon ? Dan asked , and Puck turned on him in quiet astonishment . 
'Sir Huon of Bordeaux he succeeded King Oberon . 
He had been a bold knight once , but he was lost on the road to Babylon , a long while back . 
Have you ever heard How many miles to Babylon ? ? 'Of course , said Dan , flushing . 
'Well , Sir Huon was young when that song was new . 
But about tricks on mortal babies . 
Time past is past time , says Sir Huon . 
I doubt if we could do it . 
For one thing , the babe would have to be taken without wronging man , woman , or child . 
No , it's not easy , he said , and he rode off , thinking . 
You see , Sir Huon had been a man once . 
'I happened to attend Lewes Market next Woden's Day even , and watched the slaves being sold there same as pigs are sold at Robertsbridge Market nowadays . 
Only , the pigs have rings on their noses , and the slaves had rings round their necks . 
'What sort of rings ? said Dan . 
'A ring of Cold Iron , four fingers wide , and a thumb thick , just like a quoit , but with a snap to it for to snap round the slave's neck . 
They used to do a big trade in slave rings at the Forge here , and ship them to all parts of Old England , packed in oak sawdust . 
'Beast himself ! said Una , and kicked her bare heel on the gate . 
'So he blamed the auctioneer . 
It's none o' my baby , the wench puts in . 
I took it off a woman in our gang who died on Terrible Down yesterday . 
I'll take it off to the church then , says the farmer . 
Mother Church'll make a monk of it , and we'll step along home . 
He slipped down to St Pancras' Church , and laid the babe at the cold chapel door . 
I breathed on the back of his stooping neck and I've heard he never could be warm at any fire afterwards . 
I should have been surprised if he could ! Then I whipped up the babe , and came flying home here like a bat to his belfry . 
You've brought him , then ? Sir Huon said , staring like any mortal man . 
Yes , and he's brought his mouth with him , too , I said . 
The babe was crying loud for his breakfast . 
What is he ? says Sir Huon , when the womenfolk had drawn him under to feed him . 
Full Moon and Morning Star may know , I says . 
By what I could make out of him in the moonlight , he's without brand or blemish . 
All to the good , Robin , Sir Huon said . 
He'll be the less anxious to leave us . 
Oh , we'll give him a splendid fortune , and we shall act and influence on folk in housen as we have always craved . 
His Lady came up then , and drew him under to watch the babe's wonderful doings . 
'Who was his Lady ? 'said Dan . 
She had been a woman once , till she followed Sir Huon across the fern , as we say . 
Babies are no special treat to me I've watched too many of them so I stayed on the Hill . 
Presently I heard hammering down at the Forge there . 
'Puck pointed towards Hobden's cottage . 
'It was too early for any workmen , but it passed through my mind that the breaking day was Thor's own day . 
A slow north east wind blew up and set the oaks sawing and fretting in a way I remembered so I slipped over to see what I could see . 
'And what did you see ? 'A smith forging something or other out of Cold Iron . 
, and tossed it from him a longish quoit throw down the valley . 
I saw Cold Iron flash in the sun , but I couldn't quite make out where it fell . 
I knew it would be found sooner or later by someone . 
'How did you know ? 'Dan went on . 
'Because I knew the Smith that made it , said Puck quietly . 
'Wayland Smith ? Una suggested . 
See 'Weland's Sword' in PUCK OF POOK'S HILL . 
I should have passed the time o' day with Wayland Smith , of course . 
So' Puck made a queer crescent in the air with his finger 'I counted the blades of grass under my nose till the wind dropped and he had gone he and his Hammer . 
'Was it Thor then ? Una murmured under her breath . 
'Who else ? It was Thor's own day . 
'I didn't tell Sir Huon or his Lady what I'd seen . 
Borrow trouble for yourself if that's your nature , but don't lend it to your neighbours . 
Moreover , I might have been mistaken about the Smith's work . 
He might have been making things for mere amusement , though it wasn't like him , or he might have thrown away an old piece of made iron . 
One can never be sure . 
So I held my tongue and enjoyed the babe . 
He was a wonderful child and the People of the Hills were so set on him , they wouldn't have believed me . 
He took to me wonderfully . 
As soon as he could walk he'd putter forth with me all about my Hill here . 
'The dear ! said Una . 
'I'd like to have seen him ! 'Yes , he was a boy . 
And when it came to learning his words spells and such like he'd sit on the Hill in the long shadows , worrying out bits of charms to try on passersby . 
When he got more abreast of his words , and could cast spells for sure , as we say , he took more and more notice of things and people in the world . 
People , of course , always drew him , for he was mortal all through . 
That wasn't so difficult as it sounds , because there are plenty of things besides Cold Iron in housen to catch a boy's fancy . 
He was a handful , though ! I shan't forget when I took him to Little Lindens his first night under a roof . 
The smell of the rushlights and the bacon on the beams they were stuffing a feather bed too , and it was a drizzling warm night got into his head . 
Then we fell into mischief again ! 'Puck shook till the gate rattled . 
'We came across a man up at Brightling who was beating his wife with a bat in the garden . 
I was just going to toss the man over his own woodlump when the Boy jumped the hedge and ran at him . 
Of course the woman took her husband's part , and while the man beat him , the woman scratted his face . 
It wasn't till I danced among the cabbages like Brightling Beacon all ablaze that they gave up and ran indoors . 
He looked like a Robertsbridge hopper on a Monday morning . 
Robin , said he , while I was trying to clean him down with a bunch of hay , I don't quite understand folk in housen . 
I went to help that old woman , and she hit me , Robin ! What else did you expect ? I said . 
That was the one time when you might have worked one of your charms , instead of running into three times your weight . 
I didn't think , he says . 
But I caught the man one on the head that was as good as any charm . 
Did you see it work , Robin ? Mind your nose , I said . 
Bleed it on a dockleaf not your sleeve , for pity's sake . 
I knew what the Lady Esclairmonde would say . 
He was as happy as a gipsy with a stolen pony , and the front part of his gold coat , all blood and grass stains , looked like ancient sacrifices . 
'Of course the People of the Hills laid the blame on me . 
The Boy could do nothing wrong , in their eyes . 
You are bringing him up to act and influence on folk in housen , when you're ready to let him go , I said . 
Now he's begun to do it , why do you cry shame on me ? That's no shame . 
It's his nature drawing him to his kind . 
But we don't want him to begin that way , the Lady Esclairmonde said . 
We intend a splendid fortune for him not your flitter by night , hedge jumping , gipsy work . 
I don't blame you , Robin , says Sir Huon , but I do think you might look after the Boy more closely . 
I've kept him away from Cold Iron these sixteen years , I said . 
You know as well as I do , the first time he touches Cold Iron he'll find his own fortune , in spite of everything you intend for him . 
You owe me something for that . 
'Sir Huon , having been a man , was going to allow me the right of it , but the Lady Esclairmonde , being the Mother of all Mothers , over persuaded him . 
We're very grateful , Sir Huon said , but we think that just for the present you are about too much with him on the Hill . 
Though you have said it , I said , I will give you a second chance . 
I did not like being called to account for my doings on my own Hill . 
I wouldn't have stood it even that far except I loved the Boy . 
No ! No ! says the Lady Esclairmonde . 
He's never any trouble when he's left to me and himself . 
You have said it , I answered . 
Then I went out' he snapped his fingers 'like the puff of a candle , and though they called and cried , they made nothing by it . 
I didn't promise not to keep an eye on the Boy , though . 
, and called himself unkind and ungrateful and it all ended in fresh shows and plays , and magics to distract him from folk in housen . 
'If he was very lonely ? 'No , he couldn't , said Dan , who had been thinking . 
'Didn't you swear by the Hammer of Thor that you wouldn't , Puck ? 'By that Hammer ! was the deep rumbled reply . 
Then he came back to his soft speaking voice . 
'And the Boy was lonely , when he couldn't see me any more . 
, but I saw him lift his eyes from the big black books towards folk in housen all the time . 
, but he sang those songs with his back toward the Hill , and his face toward folk . 
I know ! I have sat and grieved over him grieving within a rabbit's jump of him . 
Then he studied the High , Low , and Middle Magic . 
He had promised the Lady Esclairmonde he would never go near folk in housen so he had to make shows and shadows for his mind to chew on . 
'What sort of shows ? said Dan . 
'Just boy's Magic as we say . 
I'll show you some , some time . 
It pleased him for the while , and it didn't hurt any one in particular except a few men coming home late from the taverns . 
But I knew what it was a sign of , and I followed him like a weasel follows a rabbit . 
Oh , a good boy ! They always intended a fine fortune for him but they could never find it in their heart to let him begin . 
I've heard that many warned them , but they wouldn't be warned . 
So it happened as it happened . 
'One hot night I saw the Boy roving about here wrapped in his flaming discontents . 
But boy's Magic doesn't trouble me or Merlin's either for that matter . 
I never guessed he had such Magic at his command but it's often that way with boys . 
'Just when the owl comes home for the second time , I saw Sir Huon and the Lady ride down my Hill , where there's not much Magic allowed except mine . 
Sir Huon was for making him a great King somewhere or other , and the Lady was for making him a marvellous wise man whom all should praise for his skill and kindness . 
She was very kind hearted . 
'Of a sudden we saw the flashes of his discontents turned back on the clouds , and his shadow hounds stopped baying . 
There's Magic fighting Magic over yonder , the Lady Esclairmonde cried , reigning up . 
Who is against him ? 'I could have told her , but I did not count it any of my business to speak of Asa Thor's comings and goings . 
'How did you know ? 'said Una . 
'A slow North East wind blew up , sawing and fretting through the oaks in a way I remembered . 
The wildfire roared up , one last time in one sheet , and snuffed out like a rushlight , and a bucketful of stinging hail fell . 
We heard the Boy walking in the Long Slip where I first met you . 
Here , oh , come here ! said the Lady Esclairmonde , and stretched out her arms in the dark . 
'He was coming slowly , but he stumbled in the footpath , being , of course , mortal man . 
Why , what's this ? he said to himself . 
Hold , lad , hold ! 'Ware Cold Iron ! said Sir Huon , and they two swept down like nightjars , crying as they rode . 
'I ran at their stirrups , but it was too late . 
We felt that the Boy had touched Cold Iron somewhere in the dark , for the Horses of the Hill shied off , and whipped round , snorting . 
'Then I judged it was time for me to show myself in my own shape so I did . 
Whatever it is , I said , he has taken hold of it . 
Now we must find out whatever it is that he has taken hold of , for that will be his fortune . 
Come here , Robin , the Boy shouted , as soon as he heard my voice . 
I don't know what I've hold of . 
It is in your hands , I called back . 
Tell us if it is hard and cold , with jewels atop . 
For that will be a King's Sceptre . 
Not by a furrow long , he said , and stooped and tugged in the dark . 
Has it a handle and two cutting edges ? I called . 
For that'll be a Knight's Sword . 
No , it hasn't , he says . 
It's neither ploughshare , whittle , hook , nor crook , nor aught I've yet seen men handle . 
By this time he was scratting in the dirt to prise it up . 
Whatever it is , you know who put it there , Robin , said Sir Huon to me , or you would not ask those questions . 
You should have told me as soon as you knew . 
Oh , good bye , our dreams ! said Sir Huon . 
It's neither sceptre , sword , nor plough ! Maybe yet it's a bookful of learning , bound with iron clasps . 
There's a chance for a splendid fortune in that sometimes . 
'But we knew we were only speaking to comfort ourselves , and the Lady Esclairmonde , having been a woman , said so . 
Thur aie ! Thor help us ! the Boy called . 
It is round , without end , Cold Iron , four fingers wide and a thumb thick , and there is writing on the breadth of it . 
Read the writing if you have the learning , I called . 
The darkness had lifted by then , and the owl was out over the fern again . 
'He called back , reading the runes on the iron Few can see Further forth Than when the child Meets the Cold Iron . 
And there he stood , in clear starlight , with a new , heavy , shining slave ring round his proud neck . 
Is this how it goes ? he asked , while the Lady Esclairmonde cried . 
That is how it goes , I said . 
He hadn't snapped the catch home yet , though . 
What fortune does it mean for him ? said Sir Huon , while the Boy fingered the ring . 
You who walk under Cold Iron , you must tell us and teach us . 
Tell I can , but teach I cannot , I said . 
Never will he be his own master , nor yet ever any man's . 
Oh , cruel , wicked Thor ! cried the Lady Esclairmonde . 
Ah , look see , all of you ! The catch is still open ! He hasn't locked it . 
He can still take it off . 
He can still come back . 
Come back ! She went as near as she dared , but she could not lay hands on Cold Iron . 
The Boy could have taken it off , yes . 
We waited to see if he would , but he put up his hand , and the snap locked home . 
What else could I have done ? said he . 
Surely , then , you will do , I said . 
Morning's coming , and if you three have any farewells to make , make them now , for , after sunrise , Cold Iron must be your master . 
'So the three sat down , cheek by wet cheek , telling over their farewells till morning light . 
As good a boy as ever lived , he was . 
'And what happened to him ? asked Dan . 
'When morning came , Cold Iron was master of him and his fortune , and he went to work among folk in housen . 
Presently he came across a maid like minded with himself , and they were wedded , and had bushels of children , as the saying is . 
Perhaps you'll meet some of his breed , this year . 
'Thank you , said Una . 
For he was a good boy ! Isn't it getting on for breakfast time ? I'll walk with you a piece . 
When they were well in the centre of the bone dry fern , Dan nudged Una , who stopped and put on a boot as quickly as she could . 
'Now , she said , 'you can't get any Oak , Ash , and Thorn leaves from here , and' she balanced wildly on one leg 'I'm standing on Cold Iron . 
He walked round them , shaking with delight . 
'It's too early for wops nests , an' I don't go diggin' in the Hill , not for shillin's , said the old man placidly . 
'You've a thorn in your foot , Miss Una . 
Sit down , and put on your t'other boot . 
You're too old to be caperin' barefoot on an empty stomach . 
Stay it with this chicken o' mine . 
Cold Iron 'Gold is for the mistress silver for the maid ! Copper for the craftsman cunning at his trade . 
'Tears are for the craven , prayers are for the clown Halters for the silly neck that cannot keep a crown . 
'Here is Bread and here is Wine sit and sup with me . 
Envy ah ! even to tears ! The fortune of their years Which , though so few , yet so divinely ended . 
Scarce had they lifted up Life's full and fiery cup , Than they had set it down untouched before them . 
Before their day arose They beckoned it to close Close in destruction and confusion o'er them . 
As they grew older , they contrived to keep it most particularly private . 
Now you can understand their indignation when , one blowy July afternoon , as they were going up for a potato roast , they saw somebody moving among the trees . 
They hurled themselves over the gate , dropping half the potatoes , and while they were picking them up Puck came out of a wigwam . 
Oh , it's you , is it ? said Una . 
'We thought it was people . 
'I saw you were angry from your legs , he answered with a grin . 
'Well , it's our own Kingdom not counting you , of course . 
'That's rather why I came . 
A lady here wants to see you . 
'What about ? said Dan cautiously . 
'Oh , just Kingdoms and things . 
There was a lady near the fence dressed in a long dark cloak that hid everything except her high red heeled shoes . 
Her face was half covered by a black silk fringed mask , without goggles . 
And yet she did not look in the least as if she motored . 
Puck led them up to her and bowed solemnly . 
Una made the best dancing lesson curtsy she could remember . 
The lady answered with a long , deep , slow , billowy one . 
'Since it seems that you are a Queen of this Kingdom , 'she said , 'I can do no less than acknowledge your sovereignty . 
She turned sharply on staring Dan . 
'What's in your head , lad ? Manners ? 'I was thinking how wonderfully you did that curtsy , he answered . 
She laughed a rather shrill laugh . 
Do you know anything of dances , wench or Queen , must I say ? 'I've had some lessons , but I can't really dance a bit , said Una . 
'You should learn , then . 
The lady moved forward as though she would teach her at once . 
'It gives a woman alone among men or her enemies time to think how she shall win or lose . 
A woman can only work in man's play time . 
Heigho ! 'She sat down on the bank . 
Old Middenboro , the lawn mower pony , stumped across the paddock and hung his sorrowful head over the fence . 
'A pleasant Kingdom , said the lady , looking round . 
And how does your Majesty govern it ? Who is your Minister ? Una did not quite understand . 
'We don't play that , she said . 
'Play ? The lady threw up her hands and laughed . 
'We have it for our own , together , Dan explained . 
'And d'you never quarrel , young Burleigh ? 'Sometimes , but then we don't tell . 
'I've no brats of my own , but I understand keeping a secret between Queens and their Ministers . 
Ay de mi ! But with no disrespect to present majesty , methinks your realm' small , and therefore likely to be coveted by man and beast . 
For Is example' she pointed to Middenboro 'yonder old horse , with the face of a Spanish friar does he never break in ? 'He can't . 
Old Hobden stops all our gaps for us , said Una , 'and we let Hobden catch rabbits in the Shaw . 
The lady laughed like a man . 
'I see ! Hobden catches conies rabbits for himself , and guards your defences for you . 
Does he make a profit out of his coney catching ? 'We never ask , said Una . 
'Hobden's a particular friend of ours . 
'Hoity toity ! the lady began angrily . 
I knew a maid once that had a larger one than this to defend , and so long as her men kept the fences stopped , she asked 'em no questions either . 
'Was she trying to grow flowers ? 'said Una . 
'No , trees perdurable trees . 
The lady leaned her head on her hand . 
'They do if you don't look after them . 
Would you like to see ? I'll fetch you some . 
Una ran off to the rank grass in the shade behind the wigwam , and came back with a handful of red flowers . 
'Aren't they pretty ? she said . 
'Virginia ? said the lady , and lifted them to the fringe of her mask . 
Did your maid ever plant any ? 'Not herself but her men adventured all over the earth to pluck or to plant flowers for her crown . 
They judged her worthy of them . 
'And was she ? said Dan cheerfully . 
'Quien sabe ? who knows ? But at least , while her men toiled abroad she toiled in England , that they might find a safe home to come back to . 
'And what was she called ? 'Gloriana Belphoebe Elizabeth of England . 
Her voice changed at each word . 
'You mean Queen Bess ? The lady bowed her head a little towards Dan . 
'You name her lightly enough , young Burleigh . 
What might you know of her ? said she . 
, Well , I I've seen the little green shoes she left at Brickwall House down the road , you know . 
They're in a glass case awfully tiny things . 
'Oh , Burleigh , Burleigh ! she laughed . 
'You are a courtier too soon . 
'But they are , Dan insisted . 
'As little as dolls' shoes . 
Did you really know her well ? 'Well . 
I've been at her Court all my life . 
Yes , I remember when she danced after the banquet at Brickwall . 
They say she danced Philip of Spain out of a brand new kingdom that day . 
Worth the price of a pair of old shoes hey ? She thrust out one foot , and stooped forward to look at its broad flashing buckle . 
'You've heard of Philip of Spain long suffering Philip , she said , her eyes still on the shining stones . 
'But for all that' she began to strip the leaves one by one 'they say and I am persuaded that Philip loved her . 
She tossed her head sideways . 
'I don't quite understand , said Una . 
'The high heavens forbid that you should , wench ! She swept the flowers from her lap and stood up in the rush of shadows that the wind chased through the wood . 
'I should like to know about the shoes , said Dan . 
'So ye shall , Burleigh . 
So ye shall , if ye watch me . 
'Twill be as good as a play . 
'We've never been to a play , said Una . 
The lady looked at her and laughed . 
'I'll make one for you . 
, and while she halts at Brickwall House , the village what was its name ? She pushed Puck with her foot . 
'Norgem , he croaked , and squatted by the wigwam . 
'You whipped ? said Dan . 
Here for her sins she is waited upon by What were the young cockerels' names that served Gloriana at table ? 'Frewens , Courthopes , Fullers , Husseys , Puck began . 
She held up her long jewelled hand . 
'Spare the rest ! They were the best blood of Sussex , and by so much the more clumsy in handling the dishes and plates . 
'That wasn't Philip , King of Spain ? 'Dan asked . 
'Did her ministers ever open Queen Elizabeth's letters ? said Una . 
'Faith , yes ! But she'd have done as much for theirs , any day . 
, excusing herself thus to the company for the Queen's time is never her own and , while the music strikes up , reading Philip's letter , as I do . 
She drew a real letter from her pocket , and held it out almost at arm's length , like the old post mistress in the village when she reads telegrams . 
'Hm ! Hm ! Hm ! Philip writes as ever most lovingly . 
He says his Gloriana is cold , for which reason he burns for her through a fair written page . 
She turned it with a snap . 
'What's here ? Philip complains that certain of her gentlemen have fought against his generals in the Low Countries . 
He prays her to hang 'em when they re enter her realms . 
Here's a list of burnt shipping slipped between two vows of burning adoration . 
, who are now at large and working more piracies in his American ocean , which the Pope gave him . 
, requires that she shall hang 'em when they return to England , and afterwards shall account to him for all the goods and gold they have plundered . 
'Listen here ! Philip will prepare for Gloriana a destruction from the West a destruction from the West far exceeding that which Pedro de Avila wrought upon the Huguenots . 
And he rests and remains , kissing her feet and her hands , her slave , her enemy , or her conqueror , as he shall find that she uses him . 
She thrust back the letter under her cloak , and went on acting , but in a softer voice . 
She cannot remember the name of Pedro de Avila , nor what he did to the Huguenots , nor when , nor where . 
She can only see darkly some dark motion moving in Philip's dark mind , for he hath never written before in this fashion . 
She must smile above the letter as though it were good news from her ministers the smile that tires the mouth and the poor heart . 
What shall she do ? Again her voice changed . 
'You are to fancy that the music of a sudden wavers away . 
Chris Hatton , Captain of her bodyguard , quits the table all red and ruffled , and Gloriana's virgin ear catches the clash of swords at work behind a wall . 
The mothers of Sussex look round to count their chicks I mean those young gamecocks that waited on her . 
Two dainty youths have stepped aside into Brickwall garden with rapier and dagger on a private point of honour . 
They are haled out through the gate , disarmed and glaring the lively image of a brace of young Cupids transformed into pale , panting Cains . 
Ahem ! Gloriana beckons awfully thus ! They come up for judgement . 
Their lives and estates lie at her mercy whom they have doubly offended , both as Queen and woman . 
But la ! what will not foolish young men do for a beautiful maid ? 'Why ? What did she do ? What had they done ? said Una . 
'Hsh ! You mar the play ! Gloriana had guessed the cause of the trouble . 
Lastly , because she needed time to think on Philip's letter burning in her pocket , she signifies her pleasure to dance with 'em and teach 'em better manners . 
It appears that midway in the banquet the elder they were cousins conceived that the Queen looked upon him with special favour . 
The younger , taking the look to himself , after some words gives the elder the lie . 
Hence , as she guessed , the duel . 
'And which had she really looked at ? Dan asked . 
'Neither except to wish them farther off . 
She was afraid all the while they'd spill dishes on her gown . 
She tells 'em this , poor chicks and it completes their abasement . 
And where ? says she . 
On your hobby horses before you were breeched ? On my own ship , says the elder . 
My cousin was vice admiral of our venture in his pinnace . 
We would not have you think of us as brawling children . 
No , no , says the younger , and flames like a very Tudor rose . 
At least the Spaniards know us better . 
Admiral Boy Vice Admiral Babe , says Gloriana , I cry your pardon . 
The heat of these present times ripens childhood to age more quickly than I can follow . 
But we are at peace with Spain . 
Where did you break your Queen's peace ? On the sea called the Spanish Main , though 'tis no more Spanish than my doublet , says the elder . 
Guess how that warmed Gloriana's already melting heart ! She would never suffer any sea to be called Spanish in her private hearing . 
And why was I not told ? What booty got you , and where have you hid it ? Disclose , says she . 
You stand in some danger of the gallows for pirates . 
The axe , most gracious lady , says the elder , for we are gentle born . 
He spoke truth , but no woman can brook contradiction . 
Hoity toity ! says she , and , but that she remembered that she was Queen , she'd have cuffed the pair of 'em . 
It shall be gallows , hurdle , and dung cart if I choose . 
Had our Queen known of our going beforehand , Philip might have held her to blame for some small things we did on the seas , the younger lisps . 
As for treasure , says the elder , we brought back but our bare lives . 
We were wrecked on the Gascons' Graveyard , where our sole company for three months was the bleached bones of De Avila's men . 
'Gloriana's mind jumped back to Philip's last letter . 
De Avila that destroyed the Huguenots ? What d'you know of him ? she says . 
The music called from the house here , and they three turned back between the yews . 
Simply that De Avila broke in upon a plantation of Frenchmen on that coast , and very Spaniardly hung them all for heretics eight hundred or so . 
The next year Dominique de Gorgues , a Gascon , broke in upon De Avila's men , and very justly hung 'em all for murderers five hundred or so . 
No Christians inhabit there now , says the elder lad , though 'tis a goodly land north of Florida . 
How far is it from England ? asks prudent Gloriana . 
With a fair wind , six weeks . 
They say that Philip will plant it again soon . 
This was the younger , and he looked at her out of the corner of his innocent eye . 
'Chris Hatton , fuming , meets and leads her into Brickwall Hall , where she dances thus . 
A woman can think while she dances can think . 
Watch ! She took off her cloak slowly , and stood forth in dove coloured satin , worked over with pearls that trembled like running water in the running shadows of the trees . 
They leaned forward breathlessly to watch the splendid acting . 
She moved slowly across a bar of sunlight . 
'A destruction from the West may signify that Philip means to descend on Ireland . 
But then my Irish spies would have had some warning . 
The Irish keep no secrets . 
No it is not Ireland . 
But not openly , she sank again 'we cannot fight Spain openly not yet not yet . 
She stepped three paces as though she were pegging down some snare with her twinkling shoe buckles . 
'The Queen's mad gentlemen may fight Philip's poor admirals where they find 'em , but England , Gloriana , Harry's daughter , must keep the peace . 
Perhaps , after all , Philip loves her as many men and boys do . 
Oh , what shall help England ? She raised her head the masked head that seemed to have nothing to do with the busy feet and stared straight at the children . 
'I think this is rather creepy , said Una with a shiver . 
The lady held out her jewelled hand as though she were taking some one else's hand in the Grand Chain . 
'Can a ship go down into the Gascons' Graveyard and wait there ? she asked into the air , and passed on rustling . 
'She's pretending to ask one of the cousins , isn't she ? said Dan , and Puck nodded . 
Back she came in the silent , swaying , ghostly dance . 
They saw she was smiling beneath the mask , and they could hear her breathing hard . 
'You will go at your own charges , she whispered straight before her . 
'Oh , enviable and adorable age of youth ! Her eyes shone through the mask holes . 
'But I warn you you'll repent it . 
Put not your trust in princes or Queens . 
Philip's ships'll blow you out of water . 
You'll not be frightened ? Well , we'll talk on it again , when I return from Rye , dear lads . 
Nothing stirred on her except the rush of the shadows . 
'And so it was finished , she said to the children . 
'Why d'you not applaud ? 'What was finished ? said Una . 
'The dance , the lady replied offendedly . 
'And a pair of green shoes . 
'I don't understand a bit , said Una . 
'Eh ? What did you make of it , young Burleigh ? 'I'm not quite sure , Dan began , 'but 'You never can be with a woman . 
But ? 'But I thought Gloriana meant the cousins to go back to the Gascons' Graveyard , wherever that was . 
'Virginia afterwards , and stop Philip from taking it . 
Didn't she say she'd lend 'em guns ? 'Right so . 
'And I thought you meant they must have told her they'd do it off their own bat , without getting her into a row with Philip . 
Was I right ? 'Near enough for a Minister of the Queen . 
But remember she gave the lads full time to change their minds . 
She was three long days at Rye Royal knighting of fat Mayors . 
When she came back to Brickwall , they met her a mile down the road , and she could feel their eyes burn through her riding mask . 
Chris Hatton , poor fool , was vexed at it . 
YOU would not birch them when I gave you the chance , says she to Chris . 
Now you must get me half an hour's private speech with 'em in Brickwall garden . 
Eve tempted Adam in a garden . 
Quick , man , or I may repent ! 'She was a Queen . 
Why did she not send for them herself ? said Una . 
The lady shook her head . 
'That was never her way . 
I've seen her walk to her own mirror by bye ends , and the woman that cannot walk straight there is past praying for . 
Yet I would have you pray for her ! What else what else in England's name could she have done ? She lifted her hand to her throat for a moment . 
'Faith , she cried , 'I'd forgotten the little green shoes ! She left 'em at Brickwall so she did . 
And I remember she gave the Norgem parson John Withers , was he ? a text for his sermon Over Edom have I cast out my shoe . 
Neat , if he'd understood ! 'I don't understand , said Una . 
'What about the two cousins ? 'You are as cruel as a woman , the lady answered . 
'I was not to blame . 
I told you I gave 'em time to change their minds . 
One must watch Philip always . 
You must not turn from me too ! She laid it all fairly before the lads in Brickwall garden between the yews . 
, their poor little cock boats could not sink it . 
They answered that , with submission , the fight would be their own concern . 
She showed 'em again that there could be only one end to it quick death on the sea , or slow death in Philip's prisons . 
They asked no more than to embrace death for my sake . 
Many men have prayed to me for life . 
Her chest sounded like a board as she hit it . 
I told 'em that this was no time for open war with Spain . 
If by miracle inconceivable they prevailed against Philip's fleet , Philip would hold me accountable . 
to give him up their young lives . 
She could not know them , see them , nor hear their names , nor stretch out a finger to save them from the gallows , if Philip chose to ask it . 
Be it the gallows , then , says the elder . 
Either way any way this venture is death , which I know you fear not . 
But it is death with assured dishonour , I cried . 
Yet our Queen will know in her heart what we have done , says the younger . 
A queen has no heart . 
But she is a woman , and a woman would not forget , says the elder . 
We will go ! They knelt at my feet . 
Nay , dear lads but here ! I said , and I opened my arms to them and I kissed them . 
Be ruled by me , I said . 
We'll hire some ill featured old tarry breeks of an admiral to watch the Graveyard , and you shall come to Court . 
Come to Court and be sure of't , I said . 
'They shook their heads and I knew I knew , that go they would . 
If I had not kissed them perhaps I might have prevailed . 
'Then why did you do it ? said Una . 
'I don't think you knew really what you wanted done . 
'May it please your Majesty' the lady bowed her head low 'this Gloriana whom I have represented for your pleasure was a woman and a Queen . 
Remember her when you come to your Kingdom . 
'But did the cousins go to the Gascons' Graveyard ? said Dan , as Una frowned . 
'They went , said the lady . 
'Did they ever come back ? Una began but 'Did they stop King Philip's fleet ? Dan interrupted . 
The lady turned to him eagerly . 
'D'you think they did right to go ? she asked . 
'I don't see what else they could have done , Dan replied , after thinking it over . 
'D'you think she did right to send 'em ? The lady's voice rose a little . 
They sailed out that autumn from Rye Royal , and there never came back so much as a single rope yarn to show what had befallen them . 
The winds blew , and they were not . 
Does that make you alter your mind , young Burleigh ? 'I expect they were drowned , then . 
Anyhow , Philip didn't score , did he ? 'Gloriana wiped out her score with Philip later . 
But if Philip had won , would you have blamed Gloriana for wasting those lads' lives ? 'Of course not . 
She was bound to try to stop him . 
'You have the root of the matter in you . 
Were I Queen , I'd make you Minister . 
'We don't play that game , said Una , who felt that she disliked the lady as much as she disliked the noise the high wind made tearing through Willow Shaw . 
'Play ! said the lady with a laugh , and threw up her hands affectedly . 
The sunshine caught the jewels on her many rings and made them flash till Una's eyes dazzled , and she had to rub them . 
Then she saw Dan on his knees picking up the potatoes they had spilled at the gate . 
'There wasn't anybody in the Shaw , after all , he said . 
'Didn't you think you saw someone ? 'I'm most awfully glad there isn't , said Una . 
Then they went on with the potato roast . 
The Looking Glass Queen Bess Was Harry's daughter ! The Queen was in her chamber , and she was middling old , Her petticoat was satin and her stomacher was gold . 
Backwards and forwards and sideways did she pass , Making up her mind to face the cruel looking glass . 
, Whereas it is Pharaoh surnamed the Great . 
THE SAILOR I tell this tale , which is stricter true , just by way of convincing you How very little since things was made Things have altered in the shipwright's trade . 
In Blackwall Basin yesterday A China barque re fitting lay , When a fat old man with snow white hair Came up to watch us working there . 
, Whereas it is Noah , commanding the Ark . 
Old Mr Springett was a builder , contractor , and sanitary engineer , and his yard , which opened off the village street , was always full of interesting things . 
He would sit here by the hour watching his carts as they loaded or unloaded in the yard below , while Dan gouged and grunted at the carpenter's bench near the loft window . 
He said he never forgot any stick or stone he had ever handled , or any man , woman , or child he had ever met . 
just then he was very proud of the Village Hall at the entrance of the village , which he had finished a few weeks before . 
'An' I don't mind tellin' you , Mus' Dan , he said , 'that the Hall will be my last job top of this mortal earth . 
If she shifts any time these five hundred years , I'll sure ly turn in my grave . 
I told the Lunnon architec' so when he come down to oversee my work . 
'What did he say ? Dan was sandpapering the schooner's port bow . 
You'll want the little round file for that holler in her bow . 
Who's there ? Mr Springett turned stiffly in his chair . 
A long pile of scaffold planks ran down the centre of the loft . 
Dan looked , and saw Hal o' the Draft's touzled head beyond them . 
See 'Hal o' the Draft' in PUCK OF POOK'S HILL . 
'Be you the builder of the Village Hall ? he asked of Mr Springett . 
'I be , was the answer . 
'But if you want a job Hal laughed . 
'No , faith ! 'he said . 
'Only the Hall is as good and honest a piece of work as I've ever run a rule over . 
So , being born hereabouts , and being reckoned a master among masons , and accepted as a master mason , I made bold to pay my brotherly respects to the builder . 
'Aa um ! Mr Springett looked important . 
'I be a bit rusty , but I'll try ye ! He asked Hal several curious questions , and the answers must have pleased him , for he invited Hal to sit down . 
He knew Mr Springett was pleased , because he tugged his white sandy beard , and smoked his pipe in short puffs . 
The two men seemed to agree about everything , but when grown ups agree they interrupt each other almost as much as if they were quarrelling . 
Hal said something about workmen . 
'Why , that's what I always say , Mr Springett cried . 
'A man who can only do one thing , he's but next above fool to the man that can't do nothin' . 
That's where the Unions make their mistake . 
'My thought to the very dot . 
Dan heard Hal slap his tight hosed leg . 
'Take the art of wood carving , 'Hal went on . 
He reached across the planks , grabbed a wooden mallet , and moved his other hand as though he wanted something . 
Mr Springett without a word passed him one of Dan's broad chisels . 
'Ah ! Wood carving , for example . 
Mr Springett watched like an old raven . 
'That's what I'm always sayin' to the boy here . 
'That's what I said when I put the new wheel into Brewster's Mill in Eighteen hundred Seventy two . 
I reckoned I was millwright enough for the job 'thout bringin' a man from Lunnon . 
An' besides , dividin' work eats up profits , no bounds . 
Hal laughed his beautiful deep laugh , and Mr Springett joined in till Dan laughed too . 
'You handle your tools , I can see , said Mr Springett . 
'I reckon , if you're any way like me , you've found yourself hindered by those Guilds , did you call 'em ? Unions , we say . 
'You may say so ! Hal pointed to a white scar on his cheekbone . 
'This is a remembrance from the Master watching Foreman of Masons on Magdalen Tower , because , please you , I dared to carve stone without their leave . 
They said a stone had slipped from the cornice by accident . 
There's no way to disprove 'em . 
An' stones ain't the only things that slip , Mr Springett grunted . 
Hal went on 'I've seen a scaffold plank keckle and shoot a too clever workman thirty foot on to the cold chancel floor below . 
And a rope can break 'Yes , natural as nature an' lime'll fly up in a man's eyes without any breath o' wind sometimes , said Mr Springett . 
'Them which don't wish other men to work no better nor quicker than they do , growled Mr Springett . 
'Don't pinch her so hard in the vice , Mus' Dan . 
Put a piece o' rag in the jaws , or you'll bruise her . 
More than that' he turned towards Hal 'if a man has his private spite laid up against you , the Unions give him his excuse for workin' it off . 
'Well I know it , 'said Hal . 
'They never let you go , them spiteful ones . 
I knowed a plasterer in Eighteen hundred Sixty one down to the wells . 
He was a Frenchy a bad enemy he was . 
He was an Italian , called Benedetto . 
I met him first at Oxford on Magdalen Tower when I was learning my trade or trades , I should say . 
A bad enemy he was , as you say , but he came to be my singular good friend , said Hal as he put down the mallet and settled himself comfortably . 
'What might his trade have been plastering' Mr Springett asked . 
He worked in stucco fresco we call it . 
Not but what he had a fine sweep of the hand in drawing . 
'I know that sort , said Mr Springett . 
'There's no keeping peace or making peace with such . 
An' they're mostly born an' bone idle . 
Even his fellow countrymen laughed at his jealousy . 
We two came to loggerheads early on Magdalen Tower . 
I was a youngster then . 
Maybe I spoke my mind about his work . 
'You shouldn't never do that . 
Mr Springett shook his head . 
'That sort lay it up against you . 
This Benedetto did most specially . 
Body o' me , the man lived to hate me ! But I always kept my eyes open on a plank or a scaffold . 
I was mighty glad to be shut of him when he quarrelled with his Guild foreman , and went off , nose in air , and paints under his arm . 
But' Hal leaned forward 'if you hate a man or a man hates you 'I know . 
You're everlastin' running acrost him , Mr Springett interrupted . 
He leaned out of the window , and shouted to a carter who was loading a cart with bricks . 
'Ain't you no more sense than to heap 'em up that way ? he said . 
'Take an' throw a hundred of 'em off . 
It's more than the team can compass . 
Throw 'em off , I tell you , and make another trip for what's left over . 
You was sayin' 'I was saying that before the end of the year I went to Bury to strengthen the lead work in the great Abbey east window there . 
'Now that's just one of the things I've never done . 
But I mind there was a cheap excursion to Chichester in Eighteen hundred Seventy nine , an' I went an' watched 'em leadin' a won'erful fine window in Chichester Cathedral . 
I stayed watchin' till 'twas time for us to go back . 
Dunno as I had two drinks p'raps , all that day . 
'At Bury , then , sure enough , I met my enemy Benedetto . 
He had painted a picture in plaster on the south wall of the Refectory a noble place for a noble thing a picture of Jonah . 
'Ah ! Jonah an' his whale . 
I've never been as far as Bury . 
You've worked about a lot , said Mr Springett , with his eyes on the carter below . 
This was a picture of Jonah and the pompion that withered . 
But all that Benedetto had shown was a peevish grey beard huggled up in angle edged drapery beneath a pompion on a wooden trellis . 
This last , being a dead thing , he'd drawn it as 'twere to the life . 
'He'd ha' done no better with that . 
He draws the damp cloth off the picture , an' shows it to me . 
I was a craftsman too , d'ye see ? Tis good , I said , but it goes no deeper than the plaster . 
What ? he said in a whisper . 
Be thy own judge , Benedetto , I answered . 
Does it go deeper than the plaster ? 'He reeled against a piece of dry wall . 
No , he says , and I know it . 
I could not hate thee more than I have done these five years , but if I live , I will try , Hal . 
I pitied him , but I had spoken truth . 
His picture went no deeper than the plaster . 
'Ah ! said Mr Springett , who had turned quite red . 
'You was talkin' so fast I didn't understand what you was drivin' at . 
I've seen men good workmen they was try to do more than they could do , and and they couldn't compass it . 
They knowed it , and it nigh broke their hearts like . 
'God forgive me I was young ! He was workman enough himself to know where he failed . 
But it all came evens in the long run . 
By the same token , did ye ever hear o' one Torrigiano Torrisany we called him ? 'I can't say I ever did . 
More than that he could get his best work out of the worst men . 
I had a foreman bricklayer like him once , said Mr Springett . 
'He used to prod 'em in the back like with a pointing trowel , and they did wonders . 
I've seen our Torrisany lay a 'prentice down with one buffet and raise him with another to make a mason of him . 
I worked under him at building a chapel in London a chapel and a tomb for the King . 
'I never knew kings went to chapel much , said Mr Springett . 
'But I always hold with a man don't care who he be seein' about his own grave before he dies . 
'Tidn't the sort of thing to leave to your family after the will's read . 
I reckon 'twas a fine vault ? 'None finer in England . 
This Torrigiano had the contract for it , as you'd say . 
He called us English all pigs . 
We suffered it because he was a master in his craft . 
If he misliked any work that a man had done , with his own great hands he'd rive it out , and tear it down before us all . 
Ah , you pig you English pig ! he'd scream in the dumb wretch's face . 
You answer me ? You look at me ? You think at me ? Come out with me into the cloisters . 
I will teach you carving myself . 
I will gild you all over ! But when his passion had blown out , he'd slip his arm round the man's neck , and impart knowledge worth gold . 
Done your heart good , it would ! 'I believe you , said Mr Springett . 
'In Eighteen hundred Fifty four , I mind , the railway was bein' made into Hastin's . 
There was two thousand navvies on it all young all strong an' I was one of 'em . 
Oh , dearie me ! Excuse me , sir , but was your enemy workin' with you ? 'Benedetto ? Be sure he was . 
He followed me like a lover . 
He painted pictures on the chapel ceiling slung from a chair . 
Torrigiano made us promise not to fight till the work should be finished . 
We were both master craftsmen , do ye see , and he needed us . 
None the less , I never went aloft to carve 'thout testing all my ropes and knots each morning . 
We were never far from each other . 
Benedetto 'ud sharpen his knife on his sole while he waited for his plaster to dry wheet , wheet , wheet . 
I'd hear it where I hung chipping round a pillar head , and we'd nod to each other friendly like . 
Oh , he was a craftsman , was Benedetto , but his hate spoiled his eye and his hand . 
I mind the night I had finished the models for the bronze saints round the tomb Torrigiano embraced me before all the chapel , and bade me to supper . 
I met Benedetto when I came out . 
He was slavering in the porch Like a mad dog . 
'Workin' himself up to it ? said Mr Springett . 
'Did he have it in at ye that night ? 'No , no . 
That time he kept his oath to Torrigiano . 
Eh , well ! Now I come to my own follies . 
'I was pretty middlin' young once on a time , said Mr Springett . 
'Then ye know that a man can't drink and dice and dress fine , and keep company above his station , but his work suffers for it , Mus' Springett . 
'I never held much with dressin' up , but you're right ! The worst mistakes I ever made they was made of a Monday morning , Mr Springett answered . 
'We've all been one sort of fool or t'other . 
Mus' Dan , Mus' Dan , take the smallest gouge , or you'll be spluttin' her stem works clean out . 
Can't ye see the grain of the wood don't favour a chisel ? 'I'll spare you some of my follies . 
'Was she a man of war ? 'asked Dan . 
'She was a warship , and a woman called Catherine of Castile desired the King to give her the ship for a pleasure ship of her own . 
I did not know at the time , but she'd been at Bob to get this scroll work done and fitted that the King might see it . 
It was twenty three foot long , and maybe nine foot deep painted and gilt . 
It must ha' justabout looked fine , said Mr Springett . 
'That's the curiosity of it . 
In my conceit I must needs show it to Torrigiano , in the chapel . 
He straddles his legs , hunches his knife behind him , and whistles like a storm cock through a sleet shower . 
We were never far apart , I've told you . 
That is pig's work , says our Master . 
You make any more such things , even after your fine Court suppers , and you shall be sent away . 
'Benedetto licks his lips like a cat . 
It is so bad then , Master ? he says . 
What a pity ! Yes , says Torrigiano . 
Scarcely you could do things so bad . 
I will condescend to show . 
'He talks to me then and there . 
but good , memorable counsel , bitten in slowly . 
Then he sets me to draft out a pair of iron gates , to take , as he said , the taste of my naughty dolphins out of my mouth . 
Iron's sweet stuff if you don't torture her , and hammered work is all pure , truthful line , with a reason and a support for every curve and bar of it . 
A week at that settled my stomach handsomely , and the Master let me put the work through the smithy , where I sweated out more of my foolish pride . 
'Good stuff is good iron , said Mr Springett . 
'I done a pair of lodge gates once in Eighteen hundred Sixty three . 
'Oh , I forgot to say that Bob Brygandyne whipped away my draft of the ship's scroll work , and would not give it back to me to re draw . 
He said 'twould do well enough . 
Howsoever , my lawful work kept me too busied to remember him . 
He had been hollowing out the schooner's after deck , the little gouge had slipped and gashed the ball of his left thumb , an ugly , triangular tear . 
'That came of not steadying your wrist , said Hal calmly . 
'Don't bleed over the wood . 
Do your work with your heart's blood , but no need to let it show . 
He rose and peered into a corner of the loft . 
Mr Springett had risen too , and swept down a ball of cobwebs from a rafter . 
'Clap that on , was all he said , 'and put your handkerchief atop . 
'Twill cake over in a minute . 
It don't hurt now , do it ? 'No , said Dan indignantly . 
'You know it has happened lots of times . 
I'll tie it up myself . 
'And it'll happen hundreds of times more , said Hal with a friendly nod as he sat down again . 
But he did not go on till Dan's hand was tied up properly . 
, when Bob Brygandyne bustles in and Hal , you're sent for , he squeals . 
I was at Torrigiano's feet on a pile of put locks , as I might be here , toasting a herring on my knife's point . 
'Twas the one English thing our Master liked salt herring . 
I'm busy , about my art , I calls . 
What's Art compared to your scroll work for the SOVEREIGN ? Come . 
Be sure your sins will find you out , says Torrigiano . 
Go with him and see . 
As I followed Bob out I was aware of Benedetto , like a black spot when the eyes are tired , sliddering up behind me . 
Presently comes in a dark , long nosed man in a fur cap . 
Master Harry Dawe ? said he . 
The same , I says . 
Where a plague has Bob Brygandyne gone ? 'His thin eyebrows surged up in a piece and come down again in a stiff bar . 
He went to the King , he says . 
Where's your pleasure with me ? I says , shivering , for it was mortal cold . 
'He lays his hand flat on my draft . 
I forget it now , but it worked out to thirty pounds carved , gilt , and fitted in place . 
Thirty pounds ! he said , as though I had pulled a tooth of him . 
You talk as though thirty pounds was to be had for the asking . 
None the less , he says , your draft's a fine piece of work . 
'I'd been looking at it ever since I came in , and 'twas viler even than I judged it at first . 
My eye and hand had been purified the past months , d'ye see , by my iron work . 
I could do it better now , I said . 
The more I studied my squabby Neptunes the less I liked 'em and Arion was a pure flaming shame atop of the unbalanced dolphins . 
I doubt it will be fresh expense to draft it again , he says . 
Bob never paid me for the first draft . 
I lay he'll never pay me for the second . 
'Twill cost the King nothing if I re draw it , I says . 
There's a woman wishes it to be done quickly , he says . 
We'll stick to your first drawing , Master Dawe . 
But thirty pounds is thirty pounds . 
You must make it less . 
'And all the while the faults in my draft fair leaped out and hit me between the eyes . 
At any cost , I thinks to myself , I must get it back and re draft it . 
He grunts at me impatiently , and a splendid thought comes to me , which shall save me . 
By the same token , It was quite honest . 
'They ain't always , says Mr Springett . 
'How did you get out of it ? 'By the truth . 
I says to Master Fur Cap , as I might to you here , I says , I'll tell you something , since you seem a knowledgeable man . 
She must sail the seas , Master Dawe . 
She'll be hired to merchants for the trade . 
She'll be out in all shapes o' weathers . 
If she's meant for a pleasure ship give me my draft again , and I'll porture you a pretty , light piece of scroll work , good cheap . 
If she's meant for the open sea , pitch the draft into the fire . 
She can never carry that weight on her bows . 
'He looks at me squintlings and plucks his under lip . 
Is this your honest , unswayed opinion ? he says . 
Body o' me ! Ask about ! I says . 
Any seaman could tell you 'tis true . 
I'm advising you against my own profit , but why I do so is my own concern . 
Not altogether , he says . 
You've saved me thirty pounds , Master Dawe , and you've given me good arguments to use against a willful woman that wants my fine new ship for her own toy . 
We'll not have any scroll work . 
His face shined with pure joy . 
Then see that the thirty pounds you've saved on it are honestly paid the King , I says , and keep clear o' women folk . 
I gathered up my draft and crumpled it under my arm . 
If that's all you need of me I'll be gone , I says . 
'He turns him round and fumbles in a corner . 
Too pressed to be made a knight , Sir Harry ? he says , and comes at me smiling , with three quarters of a rusty sword . 
'I pledge you my Mark I never guessed it was the King till that moment . 
I kneeled , and he tapped me on the shoulder . 
That thought shrivelled me with insides while I was folding away my draft . 
On the heels of it maybe you'll see why I began to grin to myself . 
He was stark crazed for the time . 
I'll not cut ye short . 
Tell me now he wrenched at my head why the King chose to honour you , you you you lickspittle Englishman ? I am full of patience now . 
I have waited so long . 
, and a whole parcel of words and looks treasured up against me through years . 
Ease off your arm a little , I said . 
I cannot die by choking , for I am just dubbed knight , Benedetto . 
Tell me , and I'll confess ye , Sir Harry Dawe , Knight . 
There's a long night before ye . 
'So I told him his chin on my crown told him all told it as well and with as many words as I have ever told a tale at a supper with Torrigiano . 
I knew Benedetto would understand , for , mad or sad , he was a craftsman . 
I believed it to be the last tale I'd ever tell top of mortal earth , and I would not put out bad work before I left the Lodge . 
All art's one art , as I said . 
I bore Benedetto no malice . 
I told him what befell , and what I thought of it . 
Body o' me , 'twas a fine , noble tale , and , as I thought , my last work on earth . 
That is how I was honoured by the King , I said . 
They'll hang ye for killing me , Benedetto . 
And , since you've killed in the King's Palace , they'll draw and quarter you but you're too mad to care . 
Grant me , though , ye never heard a better tale . 
'He said nothing , but I felt him shake . 
No need to put my foot on his knife . 
The man was speechless with laughter honest craftsman's mirth . 
The first time I'd ever seen him laugh . 
You know the mirth that cuts off the very breath , while ye stamp and snatch at the short ribs ? That was Benedetto's case . 
'Benedetto says to 'em , solemn as an owl You have saved me thirty pounds , Mus' Dawe , and off he pealed . 
His very face had changed too . 
Hal , he cries , I forgive thee . 
Forgive me too , Hal . 
Oh , let us tell the Master . 
'So we reeled back to the chapel , arms round each other's necks , and when we could speak he thought we'd been fighting we told the Master . 
Yes , we told Torrigiano , and he laughed till he rolled on the new cold pavement . 
Then he knocked our heads together . 
Ah , you English ! he cried . 
You are more than pigs . 
Now you are well punished for your dirty fishes . 
Put the draft in the fire , and never do so any more . 
You are a fool , Hal , and you are a fool , Benedetto , but I need your works to please this beautiful English King . 
And I meant to kill Hal , says Benedetto . 
Master , I meant to kill him because the English King had made him a knight . 
Ah ! says the Master , shaking his finger . 
Benedetto , if you had killed my Hal , I should have killed you in the cloister . 
Then he turned dark red then he rocked to and fro then he coughed and wheezed till the tears ran down his face . 
Dan knew by this that he was laughing , but it surprised Hal at first . 
'Excuse me , sir , said Mr Springett , 'but I was thinkin' of some stables I built for a gentleman in Eighteen hundred Seventy four . 
They was stables in blue brick very particular work . 
Dunno as they weren't the best job which ever I'd done . 
A middlin' big job which I'd have had the contract of , for she spoke to me in the library about it . 
But I told her there was a line o' springs just where she wanted to dig her ditch , an' she'd flood the park if she went on . 
'Were there any springs at all ? said Hal . 
But when I sent in my last bill for the stables , the gentleman he paid it 'thout even lookin' at it , and I hadn't forgotten nothin' , I do assure you . 
I didn't say nothin' , o' course . 
I knowed he didn't want any haws haws digged acrost his park no more'n I did , but I never said nothin' . 
No more he didn't say nothin' about my blue brick stables , which was really the best an' honestest piece o' work I'd done in quite a while . 
He give me ten pounds for savin' him a hem of a deal o' trouble at home . 
I reckon things are pretty much alike , all times , in all places . 
Hal and he laughed together . 
Dan couldn't quite understand what they thought so funny , and went on with his work for some time without speaking . 
When he looked up , Mr Springett , alone , was wiping his eyes with his green and yellow pocket handkerchief . 
'Bless me , Mus' Dan , I've been asleep , he said . 
'An' I've dreamed a dream which has made me laugh laugh as I ain't laughed in a long day . 
I can't remember what 'twas all about , but they do say that when old men take to laughin' in their sleep , they're middlin' ripe for the next world . 
Have you been workin' honest , Mus' Dan ? 'Ra ather , said Dan , unclamping the schooner from the vice . 
'And look how I've cut myself with the small gouge . 
You want a lump o' cobwebs to that , said Mr Springett . 
'Oh , I see you've put it on already . 
That's right , Mus' Dan . 
King Henry VII and the Shipwrights Harry our King in England from London town is gone , And comen to Hamull on the Hoke in the countie of Suthampton . 
For there lay the MARY OF THE TOWER , his ship of war so strong , And he would discover , certaynely , if his shipwrights did him wrong . 
, and meanly did he show , In an old jerkin and patched hose that no man might him mark With his frieze hood and cloak about , he looked like any clerk . 
They heaved the main mast overboard , that was of a trusty tree , And they wrote down it was spent and lost by force of weather at sea . 
But they sawen it into planks and strakes as far as it might go , To maken beds for their own wives and little children also . 
'I have taken plank and rope and nail , without the King his leave , After the custom of Portesmouth , but I will not suffer a thief . 
Nay , never lift up thy hand at me ! There's no clean hands in the trade . 
Steal in measure , quo' Brygandyne . 
'There's measure in all things made ! 'Gramercy , yeoman ! said our King . 
And he pulled a whistle out of his neck and whistled whistles three . 
Then came my Lord of Arundel pricking across the down , And behind him the Mayor and Burgesses of merry Suthampton town . 
They drew the naughty shipwrights up , with the kettles in their hands , And bound them round the forecastle to wait the King's commands . 
But 'Since ye have made your beds , said the King , 'ye needs must lie thereon . 
'Nay , never lift up thy hands to me there's no clean hands in the trade . 
But steal in measure , 'said Harry our King . 
Weather and rain have undone it again , And now you would never know There was once a road through the woods Before they planted the trees . 
It is underneath the coppice and heath , And the thin anemones . 
Only the keeper sees That , where the ring dove broods , And the badgers roll at ease , There was once a road through the woods . 
After three weeks Una could milk Red Cow or Kitty Shorthorn quite dry , without her wrists aching , and then she allowed Dan to look . 
But milking did not amuse him , and it was pleasanter for Una to be alone in the quiet pastures with quiet spoken Mrs Vincey . 
Once , in the middle of a milking , Kitty Shorthorn boxed Una's ear with her tail . 
'You old pig ! said Una , nearly crying , for a cow's tail can hurt . 
'Why didn't you tie it down , child ? said a voice behind her . 
She wore a yellow velvet cap and tan gauntlets , and carried a real hunting crop . 
Her cheeks were pale except for two pretty pink patches in the middle , and she talked with little gasps at the end of her sentences , as though she had been running . 
'You don't milk so badly , child , she said , and when she smiled her teeth showed small and even and pearly . 
'Can you milk ? Una asked , and then flushed , for she heard Puck's chuckle . 
He stepped out of the fern and sat down , holding Kitty Short horn's tail . 
'There isn't much , he said , 'that Miss Philadelphia doesn't know about milk or , for that matter , butter and eggs . 
'I'm sorry I can't shake hands . 
Mine are all milky but Mrs Vincey is going to teach me butter making this summer . 
'Ah ! I'm going to London this summer , the girl said , 'to my aunt in Bloomsbury . 
She coughed as she began to hum , Oh , what a town ! What a wonderful metropolis ! 'You've got a cold , said Una . 
But it's vastly better than it was last winter . 
It will disappear in London air . 
D'you like doctors , child ? 'I don't know any , Una replied . 
'But I'm sure I shouldn't . 
'Think yourself lucky , child . 
I beg your pardon , the girl laughed , for Una frowned . 
'I'm not a child , and my name's Una , 'she said . 
But everybody except Rene calls me Phil . 
I'm Squire Bucksteed's daughter over at Marklake yonder . 
She jerked her little round chin towards the south behind Dallington . 
'Sure ly you know Marklake ? 'We went a picnic to Marklake Green once , said Una . 
I like all those funny little roads that don't lead anywhere . 
'They lead over our land , said Philadelphia stiffly , 'and the coach road is only four miles away . 
One can go anywhere from the Green . 
I went to the Assize Ball at Lewes last year . 
She spun round and took a few dancing steps , but stopped with her hand to her side . 
'It gives me a stitch , she explained . 
'Twill go away in London air . 
That's the latest French step , child . 
D'you hate the French , chi Una ? 'Well , I hate French , of course , but I don't mind Ma'm'selle . 
Is Rene your French governess ? Philadelphia laughed till she caught her breath again . 
'Oh no ! Rene's a French prisoner on parole . 
That means he's promised not to escape till he has been properly exchanged for an Englishman . 
He's only a doctor , so I hope they won't think him worth exchanging . 
My uncle captured him last year in the FERDINAND privateer , off Belle Isle , and he cured my uncle of a r r raging toothache . 
Of course , after that we couldn't let him lie among the common French prisoners at Rye , and so he stays with us . 
He's of very old family a Breton , which is nearly next door to being a true Briton , my father says and he wears his hair clubbed not powdered . 
'He's going to be a great French physician when the war is over . 
He makes me bobbins for my lace pillow now he's very clever with his hands but he'd doctor our people on the Green if they would let him . 
Only our Doctor Doctor Break says he's an emp or imp something worse than imposter . 
But my Nurse says 'Nurse ! You're ever so old . 
What have you got a nurse for ? Una finished milking , and turned round on her stool as Kitty Shorthorn grazed off . 
'Because I can't get rid of her . 
Old Cissie nursed my mother , and she says she'll nurse me till she dies . 
The idea ! She never lets me alone . 
She has grown infirm in her understanding , you know . 
Mad quite mad , poor Cissie ! 'Really mad ? said Una . 
'Or just silly ? 'Crazy , I should say from the things she does . 
Her devotion to me is terribly embarrassing . 
You know I have all the keys of the Hall except the brewery and the tenants' kitchen . 
I give out all stores and the linen and plate . 
'How jolly ! I love store rooms and giving out things . 
Ah , it's a great responsibility , you'll find , when you come to my age . 
Last year Dad said I was fatiguing myself with my duties , and he actually wanted me to give up the keys to old Amoore , our housekeeper . 
I said , No , sir . 
Every one's afraid of Dad , except me . 
It cracked like a pistol shot across the still pasture . 
Kitty Shorthorn threw up her head and trotted away . 
'I beg your pardon , Philadelphia said 'but it makes me furious . 
Please tell me about store rooms and giving out things . 
Ah , it's a great responsibility particularly with that old cat Amoore looking at the lists over your shoulder . 
And such a shocking thing happened last summer ! Poor crazy Cissie , my Nurse that I was telling you of , she took three solid silver tablespoons . 
'Took ! But isn't that stealing ? Una cried . 
'Hsh ! said Philadelphia , looking round at Puck . 
'All I say is she took them without my leave . 
I made it right afterwards . 
So , as Dad says and he's a magistrate , it wasn't a legal offence it was only compounding a felony . 
'It sounds awful , said Una . 
My dear , I was furious ! I had had the keys for ten months , and I'd never lost anything before . 
I said nothing at first , because a big house offers so many chances of things being mislaid , and coming to hand later . 
Fetching up in the lee scuppers , my uncle calls it . 
'Hanged , do you mean ? 'Una said . 
'They ought to be but Dad says no jury will hang a man nowadays for a forty shilling theft . 
They transport 'em into penal servitude at the uttermost ends of the earth beyond the seas , for the term of their natural life . 
I told Cissie that , and I saw her tremble in my mirror . 
Then she cried , and caught hold of my knees , and I couldn't for my life understand what it was all about , she cried so . 
Can you guess , my dear , what that poor crazy thing had done ? It was midnight before I pieced it together . 
I couldn't help laughing but it was a terrible night ! I had to put Cissie into my own bed , and stroke her hand till she cried herself to sleep . 
'How awful ! What did you do , Phil ? 'Do ? I rode off at five in the morning to talk to Master Jerry , with a new lash on my whip . 
Oh , I was furious ! Witchmaster or no Witchmaster , I meant to Ah ! what's a Witchmaster ? 'A master of witches , of course . 
I don't believe there are witches but people say every village has a few , and Jerry was the master of all ours at Marklake . 
He cures people by herbs and charms . 
He can cure them after Doctor Break has given them up , and that's why Doctor Break hates him so . 
He used to make me toy carts , and charm off my warts when I was a child . 
Philadelphia spread out her hands with the delicate shiny little nails . 
'It isn't counted lucky to cross him . 
He has his ways of getting even with you , they say . 
But I wasn't afraid of Jerry ! I saw him working in his garden , and I leaned out of my saddle and double thonged him between the shoulders , over the hedge . 
shied across the road , and I spilled out into the hedge top . 
Most undignified ! Jerry pulled me through to his side and brushed the leaves off me . 
I was horribly pricked , but I didn't care . 
Now , Jerry , I said , I'm going to take the hide off you first , and send you to Lewes afterwards . 
Oh ! he said , and he sat down among his bee hives . 
Then I reckon you've come about old Cissie's business , my dear . 
I reckon I justabout have , I said . 
Stand away from these hives . 
I can't get at you there . 
That's why I be where I be , he said . 
If you'll excuse me , Miss Phil , I don't hold with bein' flogged before breakfast , at my time o' life . 
He's a huge big man , but he looked so comical squatting among the hives that I know I oughtn't to I laughed , and he laughed . 
I always laugh at the wrong time . 
But I soon recovered my dignity , and I said , Then give me back what you made poor Cissie steal ! Your pore Cissie , he said . 
She's a hatful o' trouble . 
But you shall have 'em , Miss Phil . 
They're all ready put by for you . 
And , would you believe it , the old sinner pulled my three silver spoons out of his dirty pocket , and polished them on his cuff . 
Here they be , he says , and he gave them to me , just as cool as though I'd come to have my warts charmed . 
That's the worst of people having known you when you were young . 
But I preserved my composure . 
Jerry , I said , what in the world are we to do ? If you'd been caught with these things on you , you'd have been hanged . 
I know it , he said . 
But you made my Cissie steal them , I said . 
That I didn't , he said . 
I knew that , Jerry , and to make me flesh up ! I said . 
I'm much obliged to you , but I'm not one of your pigs ! Ah ! I reckon she've been talking to you , then , he said . 
Yes , she give me no peace , and bein' tarrified for I don't hold with old women I laid a task on her which I thought 'ud silence her . 
I never reckoned the old scrattle 'ud risk her neckbone at Lewes Assizes for your sake , Miss Phil . 
She up an' stole , I tell ye , as cheerful as a tinker . 
You might ha' knocked me down with any one of them liddle spoons when she brung 'em in her apron . 
Do you mean to say , then , that you did it to try my poor Cissie ? I screamed at him . 
What else for , dearie ? he said . 
I don't stand in need of hedge stealings . 
Then you're a wicked , wicked old man , I said , and I was so angry that I couldn't help crying , and of course that made me cough . 
'Jerry was in a fearful taking . 
He said he'd even tell old Cissie he was sorry . 
That's a great comedown for a Witchmaster , you know . 
Yes , that's only fair dealings , he said . 
There's virtue for your cough in those names spoke that way . 
And I'll give you something you can see , moreover . 
Here's a stick of maple , which is the warmest tree in the wood . 
'That's true , Una interrupted . 
'You can feel it almost as warm as yourself when you touch it . 
It's cut one inch long for your every year , Jerry said . 
You set it in your window so that it holds up the sash , and thus you keep it , rain or shine , or wet or fine , day and night . 
I've said words over it which will have virtue on your complaints . 
I haven't any complaints , Jerry , I said . 
It's only to please Cissie . 
I know that as well as you do , dearie , he said . 
And and that was all that came of my going to give him a flogging . 
I wonder whether he made poor Troubadour shy when I lashed at him ? Jerry has his ways of getting even with people . 
'I wonder , said Una . 
'Well , did you try the charm ? Did it work ? 'What nonsense ! I told Rene about it , of course , because he's a doctor . 
He's going to be a most famous doctor . 
That's why our doctor hates him . 
Rene said , Oho ! Your Master Gamm , he is worth knowing , and he put up his eyebrows like this . 
He made joke of it all . 
He used to ask me whether I had said my Apostles properly , and how I took my deep breaths . 
Jerry could talk smugglers' French , of course , and I had taught Rene plenty of English , if only he wasn't so shy . 
They called each other Monsieur Gamm and Mosheur Lanark , just like gentlemen . 
I suppose it amused poor Rene . 
He hasn't much to do , except to fiddle about in the carpenter's shop . 
The Hall is so big and empty when Dad's away , and I will not sit with old Amoore she talks so horridly about every one specially about Rene . 
'I was rude to Rene , I'm afraid but I was properly served out for it . 
You see , Dad went down to Hastings to pay his respects to the General who commanded the brigade there , and to bring him to the Hall afterwards . 
So I sent down to the sea for early mackerel , and had such a morning in the kitchen and the store rooms . 
He had gone over to Jerry , of course , as he always used , unless I requested his presence beforehand . 
I can't send for Rene every time I want him . 
Truthfully , I only went to tell Rene about the mackerel , but I saw him and Jerry sitting on the seat playing with wooden toy trumpets . 
So I slipped into the hollow , and choked down my cough , and listened . 
Rene had never shown me any of these trumpets . 
'Trumpets ? Aren't you too old for trumpets ? said Una . 
'They weren't real trumpets , because Jerry opened his short collar , and Rene put one end of his trumpet against Jerry's chest , and put his ear to the other . 
Then Jerry put his trumpet against Rene's chest , and listened while Rene breathed and coughed . 
I was afraid I would cough too . 
This hollywood one is the best , said Jerry . 
It sounds like breakers on a reef a long way off . 
Comprenny ? Perfectly , said Rene . 
I drive on the breakers . 
But before I strike , I shall save hundreds , thousands , millions perhaps , by my little trumpets . 
Now tell me what sounds the old Gaffer Macklin have made in his chest , and what the young Copper also . 
'Jerry talked for nearly a quarter of an hour about sick people in the village , while Rene asked questions . 
They'd kill you , Mosheur . 
It's all I can do to coax 'em to abide it , and I'm Jerry Gamm , said Jerry . 
He's very proud of his attainments . 
Then these poor people are alarmed No ? said Rene . 
They've had it in at me for some time back because o' my tryin' your trumpets on their sick and I reckon by the talk at the alehouse they won't stand much more . 
Tom Dunch an' some of his kidney was drinkin' themselves riot ripe when I passed along after noon . 
If I was you , I'd go home before they come . 
Jerry spoke quite quietly , and Rene shrugged his shoulders . 
I am prisoner on parole , Monsieur Gamm , he said . 
'Now that was unkind of Rene . 
He's often told me that he looked on England as his home . 
I suppose it's French politeness . 
Then we'll talk o' something that matters , said Jerry . 
He meant for the time being , but I never could teach him some phrases . 
I thought so too , said Jerry . 
But how about time to come ? Rene shook his head , and then he blew his nose . 
You don't know how odd a man looks blowing his nose when you are sitting directly above him . 
I've thought that too , said Jerry . 
He rumbled so deep I could scarcely catch . 
It don't make much odds to me , because I'm old . 
But you're young , Mosheur you're young , and he put his hand on Rene's knee , and Rene covered it with his hand . 
I didn't know they were such friends . 
Thank you , mon ami , said Rene . 
Let us return to our trumpet making . 
'You ought to have seen Rene bow he does it beautifully . 
A word with you , Laennec , said Doctor Break . 
Jerry has been practising some devilry or other on these poor wretches , and they've asked me to be arbiter . 
Whatever that means , I reckon it's safer than asking you to be doctor , said Jerry , and Tom Dunch , one of our carters , laughed . 
That ain't right feeling of you , Tom , Jerry said , seeing how clever Doctor Break put away your thorn in the flesh last winter . 
Tom's wife had died at Christmas , though Doctor Break bled her twice a week . 
Doctor Break danced with rage . 
This is all beside the mark , he said . 
These good people are willing to testify that you've been impudently prying into God's secrets by means of some papistical contrivance which this person he pointed to poor Rene has furnished you with . 
Why , here are the things themselves ! Rene was holding a trumpet in his hand . 
'Then all the men talked at once . 
You never heard such a noise . 
I took advantage of it to cough . 
'Rene and Jerry were standing with their backs to the pigsty . 
Jerry fumbled in his big flap pockets and fished up a pair of pistols . 
You ought to have seen the men give back when he cocked his . 
He passed one to Rene . 
Wait ! Wait ! said Rene . 
I will explain to the doctor if he permits . 
He waved a trumpet at him , and the men at the gate shouted , Don't touch it , Doctor ! Don't lay a hand to the thing . 
Come , come ! said Rene . 
You are not so big fool as you pretend . 
Now listen ! Now listen ! said Rene . 
This will be moneys in your pockets , my dear confrere . 
'Rene dropped his absurd trumpet and made one of his best bows . 
I knew he was angry from the way he rolled his r's . 
Ver r ry good , said he . 
For that I shall have much pleasure to kill you now and here . 
Monsieur Gamm , another bow to Jerry you will please lend him your pistol , or he shall have mine . 
That's fair enough , said Jerry . 
Tom Dunch , you owe it to the Doctor to be his second . 
No mixin' in gentry's quarrels for me . 
And he shook his head and went out , and the others followed him . 
Hold on , said Jerry . 
You've forgot what you set out to do up at the alehouse just now . 
What's the matter with you ? Wouldn't you like to be with your old woman tonight , Tom ? 'But they didn't even look back , much less come . 
They ran to the village alehouse like hares . 
No matter for these canaille , said Rene , buttoning up his coat so as not to show any linen . 
All gentlemen do that before a duel , Dad says and he's been out five times . 
You shall be his second , Monsieur Gamm . 
'Doctor Break took it as if it was red hot , but he said that if Rene resigned his pretensions in certain quarters he would pass over the matter . 
Rene bowed deeper than ever . 
'I must have leaned forward too much , and the voice gave me such a start that I slipped . 
Imagine the situation ! 'Oh , I can ! Una laughed till she nearly fell off the stool . 
'Dad said , Phil a del phia ! and Sir Arthur Wesley said , Good Ged and Jerry put his foot on the pistol Rene had dropped . 
He never even looked at me . 
He began to untwist Doctor Break's neckcloth as fast as he'd twisted it , and asked him if he felt better . 
What's happened ? What's happened ? said Dad . 
A fit ! said Rene . 
I fear my confrere has had a fit . 
Shall I bleed you a little , my dear Doctor ? Doctor Break was very good too . 
He said , I am vastly obliged , Monsieur Laennec , but I am restored now . 
And as he went out of the gate he told Dad it was a syncope I think . 
Then Sir Arthur said , Quite right , Bucksteed . 
Not another word ! They are both gentlemen . 
And he took off his cocked hat to Doctor Break and Rene . 
'But poor Dad wouldn't let well alone . 
He kept saying , Philadelphia , what does all this mean ? Well , sir , I said , I've only just come down . 
As far as I could see , it looked as though Doctor Break had had a sudden seizure . 
That was quite true if you'd seen Rene seize him . 
Not much change there , Bucksteed , he said . 
She's a lady a thorough lady . 
Heaven knows she doesn't look like one , said poor Dad . 
'So I went home , my dear don't laugh so ! right under Sir Arthur's nose a most enormous nose feeling as though I were twelve years old , going to be whipped . 
Oh , I beg your pardon , child ! 'It's all right , said Una . 
'I'm getting on for thirteen . 
I've never been whipped , but I know how you felt . 
I had poor mother's lace tucker and her coronet comb . 
'Oh , you lucky ! Una murmured . 
'And gloves ? 'French kid , my dear' Philadelphia patted her shoulder 'and morone satin shoes and a morone and gold crape fan . 
I wore my hair banded on my forehead with a little curl over the left ear . 
Sir Arthur highly approved of the dinner , my dear the mackerel did come in time . 
We had all the Marklake silver out , and he toasted my health , and he asked me where my little bird's nesting sister was . 
'Oh , how chee clever of you . 
What did he say ? Una cried . 
'He said , Not much change there , Bucksteed . 
Ged , I deserved it , and he toasted me again . 
Dad said it was a terrible fight , but Sir Arthur described it as though it had been a whist party I suppose because a lady was present . 
'Of course you were the lady . 
I wish I'd seen you , 'said Una . 
'I wish you had , child . 
I had such a triumph after dinner . 
Rene and Doctor Break came in . 
You never saw two men so frightened in your life , and when I said , What was 'the subject of your remarks , Rene ? neither of them knew where to look . 
Oh , I quizzed them unmercifully . 
They'd seen me jump off the pigsty roof , remember . 
'But what was the subject of their remarks ? said Una . 
'Oh , Doctor Break said it was a professional matter , so the laugh was turned on me . 
I was horribly afraid it might have been something unladylike and indelicate . 
But that wasn't my triumph . 
Dad asked me to play on the harp . 
Between just you and me , child , I had been practising a new song from London I don't always live in trees for weeks and I gave it them for a surprise . 
'What was it ? 'said Una . 
I have given my heart to a flower . 
Not very difficult fingering , but r r ravishing sentiment . 
Philadelphia coughed and cleared her throat . 
'I've a deep voice for my age and size , she explained . 
'And did they like it ? 'Like it ? They were overwhelmed accablEs , as Rene says . 
My dear , if I hadn't seen it , I shouldn't have believed that I could have drawn tears , genuine tears , to the eyes of four grown men . 
But I did ! Rene simply couldn't endure it ! He's all French sensibility . 
'And what did Doctor Break do ? 'He got up and pretended to look out of the window , but I saw his little fat shoulders jerk as if he had the hiccoughs . 
I never suspected him of sensibility . 
'Oh , I wish I'd seen ! I wish I'd been you , 'said Una , clasping her hands . 
Puck rustled and rose from the fern , just as a big blundering cock chafer flew smack against Una's cheek . 
When she had finished rubbing the place , Mrs Vincey called to her that Pansy had been fractious , or she would have come long before to help her strain and pour off . 
'It didn't matter , said Una 'I just waited . 
Is that old Pansy barging about the lower pasture now ? 'No , said Mrs Vincey , listening . 
'It sounds more like a horse being galloped middlin' quick through the woods but there's no road there . 
I reckon it's one of Gleason's colts loose . 
Shall I see you up to the house , Miss Una ? 'Gracious , no ! thank you . 
What's going to hurt me ? said Una , and she put her stool away behind the oak , and strolled home through the gaps that old Hobden kept open for her . 
Brookland Road I was very well pleased with what I knowed , I reckoned myself no fool Till I met with a maid on the Brookland Road That turned me back to school . 
She only smiled and she never spoke , She smiled and went away But when she'd gone my heart was broke , And my wits was clean astray . 
THE KNIFE AND THE NAKED CHALK The Run of the Downs The Weald is good , the Downs are best I'll give you the run of 'em , East to West . 
Beachy Head and Winddoor Hill , They were once and they are still . 
Firle , Mount Caburn and Mount Harry Go back as far as sums'll carry . 
Ditchling Beacon and Chanctonbury Ring , They have looked on many a thing And what those two have missed between 'em I reckon Truleigh Hill has seen 'em . 
Highden , Bignor and Duncton Down Knew Old England before the Crown . 
Linch Down , Treyford and Sunwood Knew Old England before the Flood . 
And when you end on the Hampshire side Butser's old as Time and Tide . 
They made friends with an old shepherd , called Mr Dudeney , who had known their Father when their Father was little . 
, and if Mr Dudeney happened to be far in the Downs , Mrs Dudeney would tell the dog to take them to him , and he did . 
The sun was hot , the dry grass was very slippery , and the distances were very distant . 
'It's Just like the sea , said Una , when Old Jim halted in the shade of a lonely flint barn on a bare rise . 
'You see where you're going , and you go there , and there's nothing between . 
Dan slipped off his shoes . 
'When we get home I shall sit in the woods all day , he said . 
'Whuff ! said Old Jim , to show he was ready , and struck across a long rolling stretch of turf . 
Presently he asked for his beefbone . 
'Not yet , said Dan . 
'Where's Mr Dudeney ? Where's Master ? Old Jim looked as if he thought they were mad , and asked again . 
'Don't you give it him , Una cried . 
'I'm not going to be left howling in a desert . 
'Show , boy ! Show ! said Dan , for the Downs seemed as bare as the palm of your hand . 
Old Jim sighed , and trotted forward . 
Soon they spied the blob of Mr Dudeney's hat against the sky a long way off . 
'Right ! All right ! said Dan . 
Old Jim wheeled round , took his bone carefully between his blunted teeth , and returned to the shadow of the old barn , looking just like a wolf . 
Two kestrels hung bivvering and squealing above them . 
A gull flapped lazily along the white edge of the cliffs . 
The curves of the Downs shook a little in the heat , and so did Mr Dudeney's distant head . 
They walked toward it very slowly and found themselves staring into a horseshoe shaped hollow a hundred feet deep , whose steep sides were laced with tangled sheep tracks . 
The flock grazed on the flat at the bottom , under charge of Young Jim . 
Mr Dudeney sat comfortably knitting on the edge of the slope , his crook between his knees . 
They told him what Old Jim had done . 
'Ah , he thought you could see my head as soon as he did . 
The closeter you be to the turf the more you see things . 
You look warm like , 'said Mr Dudeney . 
'We be , said Una , flopping down . 
'Set beside o' me here . 
The shadow'll begin to stretch out in a little while , and a heat shake o' wind will come up with it that'll overlay your eyes like so much wool . 
'We don't want to sleep , said Una indignantly but she settled herself as she spoke , in the first strip of early afternoon shade . 
You come to talk with me same as your father used . 
He didn't need no dog to guide him to Norton Pit . 
'Well , he belonged here , said Dan , and laid himself down at length on the turf . 
And what beats me is why he went off to live among them messy trees in the Weald , when he might ha' stayed here and looked all about him . 
There's no profit to trees . 
They draw the lightning , and sheep shelter under 'em , and so , like as not , you'll lose a half score ewes struck dead in one storm . 
Tck ! Your father knew that . 
Una rose on her elbow . 
'And what about firewood ? I don't like coal . 
'Eh ? You lie a piece more uphill and you'll lie more natural , said Mr Dudeney , with his provoking deaf smile . 
'Now press your face down and smell to the turf . 
That's Southdown thyme which makes our Southdown mutton beyond compare , and , my mother told me , 'twill cure anything except broken necks , or hearts . 
They sniffed , and somehow forgot to lift their cheeks from the soft thymy cushions . 
'You don't get nothing like that in the Weald . 
Watercress , maybe ? said Mr Dudeney . 
'But we've water brooks full of it where you paddle in hot weather , Una replied , watching a yellow and violet banded snail shell close to her eye . 
Then you must shift your sheep let alone foot rot afterward . 
I put more dependence on a dew pond any day . 
'How's a dew pond made ? said Dan , and tilted his hat over his eyes . 
The air trembled a little as though it could not make up its mind whether to slide into the Pit or move across the open . 
But it seemed easiest to go downhill , and the children felt one soft puff after another slip and sidle down the slope in fragrant breaths that baffed on their eyelids . 
Mr Dudeney stopped explaining , and went on with his knitting . 
They were roused by voices . 
The wind had dropped , and in that funnel of ground every least noise and movement reached them like whispers up a water Pipe . 
'That is clever , said Puck , leaning over . 
'How truly you shape it ! 'Yes , but what does The Beast care for a brittle flint tip ? Bah ! The man flicked something contemptuously over his shoulder . 
It fell between Dan and Una a beautiful dark blue flint arrow head still hot from the maker's hand . 
The man reached for another stone , and worked away like a thrush with a snail shell . 
'Flint work is fool's work , he said at last . 
'One does it because one always did it but when it comes to dealing with The Beast no good ! He shook his shaggy head . 
'The Beast was dealt with long ago . 
He has gone , said Puck . 
'He'll be back at lambing time . 
He chipped very carefully , and the flints squeaked . 
Children can lie out on the Chalk now all day through and go home safe . 
'Can they ? Well , call The Beast by his True Name , and I'll believe it , the man replied . 
'You see ? You hear ? said Puck . 
Feet in the Night has run off . 
There are no more wolves . 
'Wonderful ! The man wiped his forehead as though he were hot . 
'Who drove him away ? You ? 'Many men through many years , each working in his own country . 
Were you one of them ? Puck answered . 
The man slid his sheepskin cloak to his waist , and without a word pointed to his side , which was all seamed and blotched with scars . 
His arms , too , were dimpled from shoulder to elbow with horrible white dimples . 
'I see , said Puck . 
'It is The Beast's mark . 
What did you use against him ? 'Hand , hammer , and spear , as our fathers did before us . 
'So ? Then how' Puck twitched aside the man's dark brown cloak 'how did a Flint worker come by that ? Show , man , show ! He held out his little hand . 
'Good ! said he , in a surprised tone . 
The Children of the Night made it , the man answered . 
'So I see by the iron . 
What might it have cost you ? 'This ! The man raised his hand to his cheek . 
Puck whistled like a Weald starling . 
'By the Great Rings of the Chalk ! he cried . 
'Was that your price ? Turn sunward that I may see better , and shut your eye . 
He slipped his hand beneath the man's chin and swung him till he faced the children up the slope . 
They saw that his right eye was gone , and the eyelid lay shrunk . 
Quickly Puck turned him round again , and the two sat down . 
'It was for the sheep . 
The sheep are the people , said the man , in an ashamed voice . 
'What else could I have done ? You know , Old One . 
Puck sighed a little fluttering sigh . 
The man bowed his head , drove the knife into the turf , and while it still quivered said 'This is witness between us that I speak the thing that has been . 
Before my Knife and the Naked Chalk I speak . 
Touch ! Puck laid a hand on the hilt . 
The children wriggled a little nearer . 
'I am of the People of the Worked Flint . 
I am the one son of the Priestess who sells the Winds to the Men of the Sea . 
I am the Buyer of the Knife the Keeper of the People , the man began , in a sort of singing shout . 
'These are my names in this country of the Naked Chalk , between the Trees and the Sea . 
'Yours was a great country . 
Your names are great too , said Puck . 
'One cannot feed some things on names and songs . 
The man hit himself on the chest . 
'It is better always better to count one's children safe round the fire , their Mother among them . 
'I think this will be a very old tale . 
'I warm myself and eat at any fire that I choose , but there is no one to light me a fire or cook my meat . 
I sold all that when I bought the Magic Knife for my people . 
it was not right that The Beast should master man . 
What else could I have done ? 'I hear . 
I listen , said Puck . 
'When I was old enough to take my place in the Sheepguard , The Beast gnawed all our country like a bone between his teeth . 
No not always did he do so ! This was his cunning ! He would go away for a while to let us forget him . 
A year two years perhaps we neither smelt , nor heard , nor saw him . 
He learned to run in under the stroke of the hammer . 
I think he knew when there was a flaw in the flint . 
Often it does not show till you bring it down on his snout . 
You are alone but so close to the home ponds that you stop to tighten the sinews with hands , teeth , and a piece of driftwood . 
You bend over and pull so ! That is the minute for which he has followed you since the stars went out . 
Aarh ! he Wurr aarh ! he says . 
'Then he is on your right shoulder feeling for the vein in your neck , and perhaps your sheep run on without you . 
Did you desire so much ? said Puck . 
'I desired to master The Beast . 
It is not right that The Beast should master man . 
But my people were afraid . 
Even , my Mother , the Priestess , was afraid when I told her what I desired . 
We were accustomed to be afraid of The Beast . 
When I was made a man , and a maiden she was a Priestess waited for me at the Dew ponds , The Beast flitted from off the Chalk . 
Perhaps it was a sickness perhaps he had gone to his Gods to learn how to do us new harm . 
But he went , and we breathed more freely . 
The women sang again the children were not so much guarded our flocks grazed far out . 
I took mine yonder' he pointed inland to the hazy line of the Weald 'where the new grass was best . 
I followed till we were close to the Trees' he lowered his voice 'close there where the Children of the Night live . 
'Ah , now I remember a thing , said Puck . 
'Tell me , why did your people fear the Trees so extremely ? 'Because the Gods hate the Trees and strike them with lightning . 
We can see them burning for days all along the Chalk's edge . 
Besides , all the Chalk knows that the Children of the Night , though they worship our Gods , are magicians . 
When a man goes into their country , they change his spirit they put words into his mouth they make him like talking water . 
But a voice in my heart told me to go toward the north . 
While I watched my sheep there I saw three Beasts chasing a man , who ran toward the Trees . 
By this I knew he was a Child of the Night . 
We Flint workers fear the Trees more than we fear The Beast . 
He carried a knife like this one . 
A Beast leaped at him . 
He stretched out his knife . 
The other Beasts ran away howling , which they would never have done from a Flint worker . 
The man went in among the Trees . 
I looked for the dead Beast . 
He had been killed in a new way by a single deep , clean cut , without bruise or tear , which had split his bad heart . 
Wonderful ! So I saw that the man's knife was magic , and I thought how to get it , thought strongly how to get it . 
Sit in my place , and eat sorrow . 
I sat down in her place by the fire , where she talks to the ghosts in winter , and two voices spoke in my heart . 
One voice said , Ask the Children of the Night for the Magic Knife . 
It is not fit that The Beast should master man . 
I listened to that voice . 
, one voice said , If you go among the Trees , the Children of the Night will change your spirit . 
The other voice said , Ask for the Knife . 
I listened to that voice . 
'I said to my Mother in the morning , I go away to find a thing for the people , but I do not know whether I shall return in my own shape . 
She answered , Whether you live or die , or are made different , I am your Mother . 
'The Old Ones themselves cannot change men's mothers even if they would . 
'Let us thank the Old Ones ! I spoke to my Maiden , the Priestess who waited for me at the Dew ponds . 
She promised fine things too . 
'I went away to that place where I had seen the magician with the knife . 
I lay out two days on the short grass before I ventured among the Trees . 
I felt my way before me with a stick . 
I was afraid of the terrible talking Trees . 
I was afraid of the ghosts in the branches of the soft ground underfoot of the red and black waters . 
I was afraid , above all , of the Change . 
It came ! They saw him wipe his forehead once again , and his strong back muscles quivered till he laid his hand on the knife hilt . 
I was made to sing songs and to mock the Trees , though I was afraid of them . 
At the same time I saw myself laughing , and I was very sad for this fine young man , who was myself . 
Ah ! The Children of the Night know magic . 
'I think that is done by the Spirits of the Mist . 
They change a man , if he sleeps among them , said Puck . 
'Had you slept in any mists ? 'Yes but I know it was the Children of the Night . 
After three days I saw a red light behind the Trees , and I heard a heavy noise . 
I saw the Children of the Night dig red stones from a hole , and lay them in fires . 
The stones melted like tallow , and the men beat the soft stuff with hammers . 
I wished to speak to these men , but the words were changed in my mouth , and all I could say was , Do not make that noise . 
By this I knew that I was bewitched , and I clung to the Trees , and prayed the Children of the Night to take off their spells . 
They asked me many questions which they would never allow me to answer . 
They changed my words between my teeth till I wept . 
Then they led me into a hut and covered the floor with hot stones and dashed water on the stones , and sang charms till the sweat poured off me like water . 
The magicians came to hear me women and men each wearing a Magic Knife . 
Their Priestess was their Ears and their Mouth . 
I asked for Magic Knives for my people . 
Their Priestess said , For whose sake have you come ? I answered , The sheep are the people . 
If The Beast kills our sheep , our people die . 
So I come for a Magic Knife to kill The Beast . 
'She said , We do not know if our God will let us trade with the people of the Naked Chalk . 
Wait till we have asked . 
, their Priestess said , The God needs a proof that your words are true . 
This proof is between you and the God . 
'I said , This is a hard proof . 
Is there no other road ? 'She said , Yes . 
You can go back to your people with your two eyes in your head if you choose . 
But then you will not get any Magic Knives for your people . 
'I said , It would be easier if I knew that I were to be killed . 
'She said , Perhaps the God knew this too . 
See ! I have made my knife hot . 
'I said , Be quick , then ! With her knife heated in the flame she put out my right eye . 
I am the son of a Priestess . 
It was not work for any common man . 
'True ! Most true , said Puck . 
'No common man's work that . 
And , afterwards ? 'Afterwards I did not see out of that eye any more . 
I found also that a one eye does not tell you truly where things are . 
Try it ! At this Dan put his hand over one eye , and reached for the flint arrow head on the grass . 
He missed it by inches . 
'It's true , he whispered to Una . 
'You can't judge distances a bit with only one eye . 
Puck was evidently making the same experiment , for the man laughed at him . 
'I know it is so , said he . 
'Even now I am not always sure of my blow . 
I stayed with the Children of the Night till my eye healed . 
They said I was the son of Tyr , the God who put his right hand in a Beast's mouth . 
They showed me how they melted their red stone and made the Magic Knives of it . 
They told me the charms they sang over the fires and at the beatings . 
I can sing many charms . 
Then he began to laugh like a boy . 
'I was thinking of my journey home , he said , 'and of the surprised Beast . 
He had come back to the Chalk . 
I saw him I smelt his lairs as soon as ever I left the Trees . 
He did not know I had the Magic Knife I hid it under my cloak the Knife that the Priestess gave me . 
Ho ! Ho ! That happy day was too short ! See ! A Beast would wind me . 
Wow ! he would say . 
Often he had no time to howl . 
I did not trouble to flay any beasts I killed . 
Sometimes I missed my blow . 
Then I took my little flint hammer and beat out his brains as he cowered . 
He knew the Knife ! But The Beast is very cunning . 
Before evening all The Beasts had smelt the blood on my knife , and were running from me like hares . 
They knew ! Then I walked as a man should the Master of The Beast ! 'So came I back to my Mother's house . 
There was a lamb to be killed . 
I cut it in two halves with my knife , and I told her all my tale . 
She said , This is the work of a God . 
I kissed her and laughed . 
I went to my Maiden who waited for me at the Dew ponds . 
There was a lamb to be killed . 
I cut it in two halves with my knife , and told her all my tale . 
She said , It is the work of a God . 
I laughed , but she pushed me away , and being on my blind side , ran off before I could kiss her . 
I went to the Men of the Sheepguard at watering time . 
There was a sheep to be killed for their meat . 
I cut it in two halves with my knife , and told them all my tale . 
They said , It is the work of a God . 
I said , We talk too much about Gods . 
Let us eat and be happy , and tomorrow I will take you to the Children of the Night , and each man will find a Magic Knife . 
'I was glad to smell our sheep again to see the broad sky from edge to edge , and to hear the sea . 
I slept beneath the stars in my cloak . 
The men talked among themselves . 
'I led them , the next day , to the Trees , taking with me meat , wool , and curdled milk , as I had promised . 
We found the Magic Knives laid out on the grass , as the Children of the Night had promised . 
They watched us from among the Trees . 
Their Priestess called to me and said , How is it with your people ? I said Their hearts are changed . 
I cannot see their hearts as I used to . 
She said , That is because you have only one eye . 
Come to me and I will be both your eyes . 
But I said , I must show my people how to use their knives against The Beast , as you showed me how to use my knife . 
I said this because the Magic Knife does not balance like the flint . 
She said , What you have done , you have done for the sake of a woman , and not for the sake of your people . 
And I am not angry with you . 
I am only very sorrowful for you . 
Wait a little , and you will see out of your one eye why I am sorry . 
'I went back with my people , each one carrying his Knife , and making it sing in the air tssee sssse . 
He knew ! Everywhere he ran away from us . 
As we walked over the grass my Mother's brother the Chief on the Men's Side he took off his Chief's necklace of yellow sea stones . 
'How ? Eh ? Oh , I remember ! Amber , said Puck . 
'And would have put them on my neck . 
I said , No , I am content . 
Then they began to sing a song in the Old Tongue The Song of Tyr . 
I sang with them , but my Mother's brother said , This is your song , O Buyer of the Knife . 
Let us sing it , Tyr . 
'By the Fire in the Belly of the Flint was that so ? Puck rapped out . 
'By my Knife and the Naked Chalk , so it was ! They made way for my shadow as though it had been a Priestess walking to the Barrows of the Dead . 
I said to myself , My Mother and my Maiden will know I am not Tyr . 
But still I was afraid , with the fear of a man who falls into a steep flint pit while he runs , and feels that it will be hard to climb out . 
'When we came to the Dew ponds all our people were there . 
The men showed their knives and told their tale . 
The sheep guards also had seen The Beast flying from us . 
I looked for my Maiden among the Priestesses . 
She looked at me , but she did not smile . 
She made the sign to me that our Priestesses must make when they sacrifice to the Old Dead in the Barrows . 
Well I remember those Midsummer Mornings ! said Puck . 
'Then I went away angrily to my Mother's house . 
She would have knelt before me . 
Then I was more angry , but she said , Only a God would have spoken to me thus , a Priestess . 
A man would have feared the punishment of the Gods . 
I looked at her and I laughed . 
I could not stop my unhappy laughing . 
They called me from the door by the name of Tyr himself . 
A young man with whom I had watched my first flocks , and chipped my first arrow , and fought my first Beast , called me by that name in the Old Tongue . 
He asked my leave to take my Maiden . 
His eyes were lowered , his hands were on his forehead . 
He was full of the fear of a God , but of me , a man , he had no fear when he asked . 
I did not kill him . 
I said , Call the maiden . 
She came also without fear this very one that had waited for me , that had talked with me , by our Dew ponds . 
Being a Priestess , she lifted her eyes to me . 
As I look on a hill or a cloud , so she looked at me . 
She spoke in the Old Tongue which Priestesses use when they make prayers to the Old Dead in the Barrows . 
She asked leave that she might light the fire in my companion's house and that I should bless their children . 
I did not kill her . 
I heard my own voice , little and cold , say , Let it be as you desire , and they went away hand in hand . 
My heart grew little and cold a wind shouted in my ears my eye darkened . 
'Oh , poor poor God ! said Puck . 
'And your wise Mother ? 'She knew . 
As soon as I dropped she knew . 
When my spirit came back I heard her whisper in my ear , Whether you live or die , or are made different , I am your Mother . 
That was good better even than the water she gave me and the going away of the sickness . 
Though I was ashamed to have fallen down , yet I was very glad . 
Neither of us wished to lose the other . 
There is only the one Mother for the one son . 
I heaped the fire for her , and barred the doors , and sat at her feet as before I went away , and she combed my hair , and sang . 
I see no way out of it . 
The people are now your sheep till you die . 
You cannot drive them off . 
'I said , This is a heavier sheep than I can lift . 
She said , In time it will grow easy . 
In time perhaps you will not lay it down for any maiden anywhere . 
Be wise be very wise , my son , for nothing is left you except the words , and the songs , and the worship of a God . 
'Oh , poor God ! said Puck . 
'But those are not altogether bad things . 
'I know they are not but I would sell them all all all for one small child of my own , smearing himself with the ashes of our own house fire . 
He wrenched his knife from the turf , thrust it into his belt and stood up . 
'And yet , what else could I have done ? he said . 
'The sheep are the people . 
'It is a very old tale , Puck answered . 
'I have heard the like of it not only on the Naked Chalk , but also among the Trees under Oak , and Ash , and Thorn . 
The afternoon shadows filled all the quiet emptiness of Norton Pit . 
The children heard the sheep bells and Young jim's busy bark above them , and they scrambled up the slope to the level . 
'We let you have your sleep out , said Mr Dudeney , as the flock scattered before them . 
'It's making for tea time now . 
'Look what I've found , said Dan , and held up a little blue flint arrow head as fresh as though it had been chipped that very day . 
'Oh , said Mr Dudeney , 'the closeter you be to the turf the more you're apt to see things . 
Some says the fairies made 'em , but I says they was made by folks like ourselves only a goodish time back . 
'Then what's the good of 'em ? said Mr Dudeney . 
'Might as well set in the barn all day . 
that The Beast should master Man So he went to the Children of the Night . 
He begged a Magic Knife of their make for our sake . 
When he begged for the Knife they said 'The price of the Knife you would buy is an eye ! And that was the price he paid . 
We shall not be anxious for our sheep when we keep Tally at the shearing pond . 
There's little left indeed of the city you will read of , And all the folk I write about have died . 
Now few will understand if you mention Talleyrand , Or remember what his cunning and his skill did . 
And the cabmen at the wharf do not know Count Zinnendorf , Nor the Church in Philadelphia he builded . 
It is gone , gone , gone with lost Atlantis . 
Bob Bicknell's Southern Stages have been laid aside for ages , But the Limited will take you there instead . 
It is gone , gone , gone with Thebes the Golden . 
In Seventeen Ninety four 'twas a famous dancing floor But it's not in Philadelphia this morning . 
If you're off to Philadelphia in the morning , You must telegraph for rooms at some Hotel . 
You needn't try your luck at Epply's or the 'Buck , Though the Father of his Country liked them well . 
He is gone , gone , gone with Martin Luther . 
alive , But he's not in Philadelphia this morning . 
Still the pine woods scent the noon still the cat bird sings his tune Still Autumn sets the maple forest blazing . 
Still the grape vine through the dusk flings her soul compelling musk Still the fire flies in the corn make night amazing . 
They are there , there , there with Earth immortal . 
They had turned themselves out of doors while their trunks were being packed , and strolled over the Downs towards the dull evening sea . 
They walked to The Gap , where the cliff is only a few feet high . 
A windlass for hoisting shingle from the beach below stands at the edge of it . 
The Coastguard cottages are a little farther on , and an old ship's figurehead of a Turk in a turban stared at them over the wall . 
'This time tomorrow we shall be at home , thank goodness , said Una . 
'I hate the sea ! 'I believe it's all right in the middle , said Dan . 
'The edges are the sorrowful parts . 
Cordery , the coastguard , came out of the cottage , levelled his telescope at some fishing boats , shut it with a click and walked away . 
He grew smaller and smaller along the edge of the cliff , where neat piles of white chalk every few yards show the path even on the darkest night . 
'Where's Cordery going ? 'said Una . 
'Half way to Newhaven , 'said Dan . 
'Then he'll meet the Newhaven coastguard and turn back . 
He says if coastguards were done away with , smuggling would start up at once . 
A dark , thin faced man in very neat brown clothes and broad toed shoes came up , followed by Puck . 
'Three Dunkirk boats was standin' in ! the man went on . 
'You'll shock these nice young people . 
'Oh ! Shall I ? Mille pardons ! He shrugged his shoulders almost up to his ears spread his hands abroad , and jabbered in French . 
'No comprenny ? he said . 
'I'll give it you in Low German . 
And he went off in another language , changing his voice and manner so completely that they hardly knew him for the same person . 
His hair was tied 'in a short pigtail which danced wickedly when he turned his head . 
'Ha' done ! said Puck , laughing . 
'Be one thing or t'other , Pharaoh French or English or German no great odds which . 
'Oh , but it is , though , said Una quickly . 
'We haven't begun German yet , and and we're going back to our French next week . 
'Aren't you English ? said Dan . 
'We heard you singing just now . 
'Aha ! That was the Sussex side o' me . 
Dad he married a French girl out o' Boulogne , and French she stayed till her dyin' day . 
She was an Aurette , of course . 
We Lees mostly marry Aurettes . 
Haven't you ever come across the saying 'Aurettes and Lees , Like as two peas . 
What they can't smuggle , They'll run over seas' ? 'Then , are you a smuggler ? Una cried and , 'Have you smuggled much ? 'said Dan . 
'Twas all in the families , same as fiddling . 
The Aurettes used mostly to run the stuff across from Boulogne , and we Lees landed it here and ran it up to London Town , by the safest road . 
'Then where did you live ? said Una . 
'You mustn't ever live too close to your business in our trade . 
We kept our little fishing smack at Shoreham , but otherwise we Lees was all honest cottager folk at Warminghurst under Washington Bramber way on the old Penn estate . 
'Ah ! said Puck , squatted by the windlass . 
'I remember a piece about the Lees at Warminghurst , I do 'There was never a Lee to Warminghurst That wasn't a gipsy last and first . 
I reckon that's truth , Pharaoh . 
'Admettin' that's true , he said , 'my gipsy blood must be wore pretty thin , for I've made and kept a worldly fortune . 
'By smuggling ? Dan asked . 
'No , in the tobacco trade . 
'You don't mean to say you gave up smuggling just to go and be a tobacconist ! Dan looked so disappointed they all had to laugh . 
'I'm sorry but there's all sorts of tobacconists , Pharaoh replied . 
'How far out , now , would you call that smack with the patch on her foresail ? He pointed to the fishing boats . 
'A scant mile , said Puck after a quick look . 
It's seven fathom under her clean sand . 
That was where Uncle Aurette used to sink his brandy kegs from Boulogne , and we fished 'em up and rowed 'em into The Gap here for the ponies to run inland . 
Uncle Aurette tells us that they had cut off their King Louis' head , and , moreover , the Brest forts had fired on an English man o' war . 
The news wasn't a week old . 
That means war again , when we was only just getting used to the peace , says Dad . 
Why can't King George's men and King Louis' men do on their uniforms and fight it out over our heads ? Me too , I wish that , says Uncle Aurette . 
But they'll be pressing better men than themselves to fight for 'em . 
The press gangs are out already on our side . 
You look out for yours . 
It 'ud show 'em what honest work means . 
Well , I've warned ye , says Uncle Aurette . 
I'll be slipping off now before your Revenue cutter comes . 
Give my love to Sister and take care o' the kegs . 
'I remember him waving to us and young Stephen L'Estrange blowing out the lantern . 
So he and Uncle Lot took the dinghy and left me in the smack playing on my fiddle to guide 'em back . 
Two of 'em sounded mighty like Uncle Aurette's three pounders . 
He didn't go naked about the seas after dark . 
Then come more , which I reckoned was Captain Giddens in the Revenue cutter . 
He was open handed with his compliments , but he would lay his guns himself . 
I stopped fiddling to listen , and I heard a whole skyful o' French up in the fog and a high bow come down on top o' the smack . 
I hadn't time to call or think . 
I remember the smack heeling over , and me standing on the gunwale pushing against the ship's side as if I hoped to bear her off . 
Then the square of an open port , with a lantern in it , slid by in front of my nose . 
I kicked back on our gunwale as it went under and slipped through that port into the French ship me and my fiddle . 
'What an adventure ! 'Didn't anybody see you come in ? said Dan . 
'There wasn't any one there . 
I'd made use of an orlop deck port that's the next deck below the gun deck , which by rights should not have been open at all . 
The crew was standing by their guns up above . 
I rolled on to a pile of dunnage in the dark and I went to sleep . 
When I woke , men was talking all round me , telling each other their names and sorrows just like Dad told me pressed men used to talk in the last war . 
Pretty soon I made out they'd all been hove aboard together by the press gangs , and left to sort 'emselves . 
They had been up all night clearing for action on account of hearing guns in the fog . 
Uncle Aurette and Captain Giddens must have been passing the time o' day with each other off Newhaven , and the frigate had drifted past 'em . 
She never knew she'd run down our smack . 
What ! Here's one of 'em that isn't sick ! says a cook . 
Take his breakfast to Citizen Bompard . 
'I carried the tray to the cabin , but I didn't call this Bompard Citizen . 
Oh no ! Mon Capitaine was my little word , same as Uncle Aurette used to answer in King Louis' Navy . 
Bompard , he liked it . 
He took me on for cabin servant , and after that no one asked questions and thus I got good victuals and light work all the way across to America . 
I learned to know most of the men which had worked the French Revolution , through waiting at table and hearing talk about 'em . 
One of our forecas'le six pounders was called Danton and t'other Marat . 
I used to play the fiddle between 'em , sitting on the capstan . 
Monsieur Genet said he'd justabout make the United States fight for France . 
He was a rude common man . 
I always helped drink any healths that was proposed specially Citizen Danton's who'd cut off King Louis' head . 
An all Englishman might have been shocked but that's where my French blood saved me . 
The surgeon , Karaguen his name was , kept me down there to help him with his plasters I was too weak to wait on Bompard . 
What's this ? I said to the sick bay man Old Pierre Tiphaigne he was . 
'I just turned round and cried for longing to be amongst the laylocks . 
If that's your trouble , says old Pierre , you go straight ashore . 
They're all gone mad on these coasts French and American together . 
'Tisn't my notion o' war . 
Pierre was an old King Louis man . 
'My legs was pretty tottly , but I made shift to go on deck , which it was like a fair . 
The frigate was crowded with fine gentlemen and ladies pouring in and out . 
They sung and they waved French flags , while Captain Bompard and his officers yes , and some of the men speechified to all and sundry about war with England . 
They shouted , Down with England ! Down with Washington ! Hurrah for France and the Republic ! I couldn't make sense of it . 
I wanted to get out from that crunch of swords and petticoats and sit in a field . 
One of the gentlemen said to me , Is that a genuine cap o' Liberty you're wearing ? 'Twas Aunt Cecile's red one , and pretty near wore out . 
Oh yes ! I says , straight from France . 
I'll give you a shilling for it , he says , and with that money in my hand and my fiddle under my arm I squeezed past the entry port and went ashore . 
They all was the fashion in the city . 
I saw more tricolour flags in Philadelphia than ever I'd seen in Boulogne , and every one was shouting for war with England . 
A crowd o' folk was cheering after our French Ambassador that same Monsieur Genet which we'd left at Charleston . 
He was a horseback behaving as if the place belonged to him and commanding all and sundry to fight the British . 
But I'd heard that before . 
I got into a long straight street as wide as the Broyle , where gentlemen was racing horses . 
Nobody hindered 'em , and a man told me it was called Race Street o' purpose for that . 
The Indian stopped at a baker's shop Conrad Gerhard's it was and bought some sugary cakes . 
Hearing what the price was I was going to have some too , but the Indian asked me in English if I was hungry . 
Oh yes ! I says . 
I must have looked a sore scrattel . 
He opens a door on to a staircase and leads the way up . 
We walked into a dirty little room full of flutes and fiddles and a fat man fiddling by the window , in a smell of cheese and medicines fit to knock you down . 
I was knocked down too , for the fat man jumped up and hit me a smack in the face . 
I fell against an old spinet covered with pill boxes and the pills rolled about the floor . 
The Indian never moved an eyelid . 
Pick up the pills ! Pick up the pills ! the fat man screeches . 
'I started picking 'em up hundreds of 'em meaning to run out under the Indian's arm , but I came on giddy all over and I sat down . 
The fat man went back to his fiddling . 
Toby ! says the Indian after quite a while . 
I brought the boy to be fed , not hit . 
What ? says Toby , I thought it was Gert Schwankfelder . 
He put down his fiddle and took a good look at me . 
I have hit the wrong boy . 
It is not the new boy . 
Why are you not the new boy ? Why are you not Gert Schwankfelder ? I don't know , I said . 
The gentleman in the pink blanket brought me . 
'Says the Indian , He is hungry , Toby . 
Christians always feed the hungry . 
You should have said that first , said Toby . 
He pushed plates at me and the Indian put bread and pork on them , and a glass of Madeira wine . 
I told him I was off the French ship , which I had joined on account of my mother being French . 
That was true enough when you think of it , and besides I saw that the French was all the fashion in Philadelphia . 
Toby and the Indian whispered and I went on picking up the pills . 
You like pills eh ? says Toby . 
I've seen our ship's doctor roll too many of em . 
Ho ! he says , and he shoves two bottles at me . 
What's those ? Calomel , I says . 
One week have I tried to teach Gert Schwankfelder the difference between them , yet he cannot tell . 
You like to fiddle ? he says . 
He'd just seen my kit on the floor . 
Oh yes ! says I , Oho ! he says . 
What note is this ? drawing his bow across . 
'He meant it for A , so I told him it was . 
My brother , he says to the Indian . 
I think this is the hand of Providence ! I warned that Gert if he went to play upon the wharves any more he would hear from me . 
Now look at this boy and say what you think . 
'The Indian looked me over whole minutes there was a musical clock on the wall and dolls came out and hopped while the hour struck . 
He looked me over all the while they did it . 
Good , he says at last . 
Good , then , says Toby . 
Now I shall play my fiddle and you shall sing your hymn , brother . 
Boy , go down to the bakery and tell them you are young Gert Schwankfelder that was . 
The horses are in Davy jones's locker . 
If you ask any questions you shall hear from me . 
'I left 'em singing hymns and I went down to old Conrad Gerhard . 
He wasn't at all surprised when I told him I was young Gert Schwankfelder that was . 
Karaguen wanted a new lace to his coat , and he reckoned I hadn't long to live so he put me down as discharged sick . 
'I like Toby , said Una . 
'Who was he ? said Puck . 
'Apothecary Tobias Hirte , Pharaoh replied . 
'One Hundred and Eighteen , Second Street the famous Seneca Oil man , that lived half of every year among the Indians . 
But let me tell my tale my own way , same as his brown mare used to go to Lebanon . 
'Then why did he keep her in Davy Jones's locker ? Dan asked . 
He kept her under David Jones's hat shop in the Buck tavern yard , and his Indian friends kept their ponies there when they visited him . 
I looked after the horses when I wasn't rolling pills on top of the old spinet , while he played his fiddle and Red Jacket sang hymns . 
I had good victuals , light work , a suit o' clean clothes , a plenty music , and quiet , smiling German folk all around that let me sit in their gardens . 
My first Sunday , Toby took me to his church in Moravian Alley and that was in a garden too . 
The women wore long eared caps and handkerchiefs . 
I carried Toby's fiddle , and he played pretty much as he chose all against the organ and the singing . 
He was the only one they let do it , for they was a simple minded folk . 
They used to wash each other's feet up in the attic to keep 'emselves humble which Lord knows they didn't need . 
'How very queer ! said Una . 
'I've met many and seen much , he said 'but I haven't yet found any better or quieter or forbearinger people than the Brethren and Sistern of the Moravian Church in Philadelphia . 
Being a boy , it seemed to me it had lasted for ever , and was going on for ever . 
But I didn't know Toby then . 
As soon as the dancing clock struck midnight that Sunday I was lying under the spinet I heard Toby's fiddle . 
He'd just done his supper , which he always took late and heavy . 
Gert , says he , get the horses . 
Liberty and Independence for Ever ! The flowers appear upon the earth , and the time of the singing of birds is come . 
We are going to my country seat in Lebanon . 
'I rubbed my eyes , and fetched 'em out of the Buck stables . 
Red Jacket was there saddling his , and when I'd packed the saddle bags we three rode up Race Street to the Ferry by starlight . 
It's a kindly , softly country there , back of Philadelphia among the German towns , Lancaster way . 
Little houses and bursting big barns , fat cattle , fat women , and all as peaceful as Heaven might be if they farmed there . 
Toby sold medicines out of his saddlebags , and gave the French war news to folk along the roads . 
Him and his long hilted umberell was as well known as the stage coaches . 
There's nothing to hurt except snakes and they slip away quick enough if you thrash in the bushes . 
'I'd have liked that ! said Dan . 
'I'd no fault to find with those days . 
In the cool o' the morning the cat bird sings . 
He's something to listen to . 
And there's a smell of wild grape vine growing in damp hollows which you drop into , after long rides in the heat , which is beyond compare for sweetness . 
So's the puffs out of the pine woods of afternoons . 
Come sundown , the frogs strike up , and later on the fireflies dance in the corn . 
No odds I loved the going about . 
And so we jogged 'into dozy little Lebanon by the Blue Mountains , where Toby had a cottage and a garden of all fruits . 
He come north every year for this wonderful Seneca Oil the Seneca Indians made for him . 
They'd never sell to any one else , and he doctored 'em with von Swieten pills , which they valued more than their own oil . 
He could do what he chose with them , and , of course , he tried to make them Moravians . 
The Senecas are a seemly , quiet people , and they'd had trouble enough from white men American and English during the wars , to keep 'em in that walk . 
They lived on a Reservation by themselves away off by their lake . 
Toby took me up there , and they treated me as if I was their own blood brother . 
Red Jacket said the mark of my bare feet in the dust was just like an Indian's and my style of walking was similar . 
I know I took to their ways all over . 
'Maybe the gipsy drop in your blood helped you ? said Puck . 
'Sometimes I think it did , Pharaoh went on . 
'Anyhow , Red Jacket and Cornplanter , the other Seneca chief , they let me be adopted into the tribe . 
It's only a compliment , of course , but Toby was angry when I showed up with my face painted . 
They gave me a side name which means Two Tongues , because , d'ye see , I talked French and English . 
about the French and the English , and the Americans . 
They'd suffered from all of 'em during the wars , and they only wished to be left alone . 
But they thought a heap of the President of the United States . 
Cornplanter had had dealings with him in some French wars out West when General Washington was only a lad . 
His being President afterwards made no odds to 'em . 
They always called him Big Hand , for he was a large fisted man , and he was all of their notion of a white chief . 
If he didn't , he'd blow through his nostrils . 
Then Cornplanter 'ud stop and Red Jacket 'ud take on . 
Red Jacket was the better talker of the two . 
I've laid and listened to 'em for hours . 
Oh ! they knew General Washington well . 
Cornplanter used to meet him at Epply's the great dancing place in the city before District Marshal William Nichols bought it . 
They told me he was always glad to see 'em , and he'd hear 'em out to the end if they had anything on their minds . 
They had a good deal in those days . 
I came at it by degrees , after I was adopted into the tribe . 
Toby wanted peace so as he could go about the Reservation buying his oils . 
But most of the white men wished for war , and they was angry because the President wouldn't give the sign for it . 
The newspaper said men was burning Guy Fawkes images of General Washington and yelling after him in the streets of Philadelphia . 
You'd have been astonished what those two fine old chiefs knew of the ins and outs of such matters . 
The little I've learned of politics I picked up from Cornplanter and Red Jacket on the Reservation . 
Toby used to read the Aurora newspaper . 
He was what they call a Democrat , though our Church is against the Brethren concerning themselves with politics . 
'I hate politics , too , said Una , and Pharaoh laughed . 
'I might ha' guessed it , he said . 
'But here's something that isn't politics . 
One hot evening late in August , Toby was reading the newspaper on the stoop and Red Jacket was smoking under a peach tree and I was fiddling . 
Of a sudden Toby drops his Aurora . 
I am an oldish man , too fond of my own comforts , he says . 
I will go to the Church which is in Philadelphia . 
My brother , lend me a spare pony . 
I must be there tomorrow night . 
Good ! says Red Jacket , looking at the sun . 
My brother shall be there . 
I will ride with him and bring back the ponies . 
'I went to pack the saddle bags . 
Toby had cured me of asking questions . 
He stopped my fiddling if I did . 
Besides , Indians don't ask questions much and I wanted to be like 'em . 
'When the horses were ready I jumped up . 
Get off , says Toby . 
Stay and mind the cottage till I come back . 
The Lord has laid this on me , not on you . 
'He powders off down the Lancaster road , and I sat on the doorstep wondering after him . 
When I picked up the paper to wrap his fiddle strings in , I spelled out a piece about the yellow fever being in Philadelphia so dreadful every one was running away . 
I was scared , for I was fond of Toby . 
We never said much to each other , but we fiddled together , and music's as good as talking to them that understand . 
'Did Toby die of yellow fever ? 'Una asked . 
'Not him ! There's justice left in the world still . 
He went down to the City and bled 'em well again in heaps . 
Down at heart all Indians reckon digging a squaw's business , and neither him nor Cornplanter , when he relieved watch , was a hard task Master . 
We hired a nigger boy to do our work , and a lazy grinning runagate he was . 
When I found Toby didn't die the minute he reached town , why , boylike , I took him off my mind and went with my Indians again . 
Oh ! those days up north at Canasedago , running races and gambling with the Senecas , or bee hunting 'in the woods , or fishing in the lake . 
Pharaoh sighed and looked across the water . 
'But it's best , he went on suddenly , 'after the first frosts . 
I thought it was war against the British till I saw their faces weren't painted , and they only carried wrist whips . 
Then I hummed Yankee Doodle at 'em . 
They told me they was going to visit Big Hand and find out for sure whether he meant to join the French in fighting the English or make a peace treaty with England . 
They asked me to come along and hold the ponies . 
Besides , I wasn't exactly dressed for it . 
'D'you mean you were dressed like an Indian ? 'Dan demanded . 
Pharaoh looked a little abashed . 
You may laugh' he smoothed down his long skirted brown coat 'but I told you I took to their ways all over . 
I said nothing , though I was bursting to let out the war whoop like the young men had taught me . 
'No , and you don't let out one here , either , said Puck before Dan could ask . 
'Go on , Brother Square toes . 
Pharaoh's narrow dark eyes gleamed and danced . 
'We went on forty , fifty miles a day , for days on end we three braves . 
We had evening hymn singing every night after they'd blown their pipe smoke to the quarters of heaven . 
Where did we go ? I'll tell you , but don't blame me if you're no wiser . 
We took the old war trail from the end of the Lake along the East Susquehanna through the Nantego country , right down to Fort Shamokin on the Senachse river . 
We crossed the Juniata by Fort Granville , got into Shippensberg over the hills by the Ochwick trail , and then to Williams Ferry . 
I'd hate to be trailed by Indians in earnest . 
They caught him like a partridge on a stump . 
I fancy they'd come to see Genet a piece on his road , for his portmantle was with him . 
I hid in between two logs as near to the company as I be to that old windlass there . 
I didn't need anybody to show me Big Hand . 
He stood up , very still , his legs a little apart , listening to Genet , that French Ambassador , which never had more manners than a Bosham tinker . 
Genet was as good as ordering him to declare war on England at once . 
I had heard that clack before on the Embuscade . 
He said he'd stir up the whole United States to have war with England , whether Big Hand liked it or not . 
'Big Hand heard him out to the last end . 
I looked behind me , and my two chiefs had vanished like smoke . 
Says Big Hand , That is very forcibly put , Monsieur Genet Citizen citizen ! the fellow spits in . 
I , at least , am a Republican ! Citizen Genet , he says , you may be sure it will receive my fullest consideration . 
This seemed to take Citizen Genet back a piece . 
He rode off grumbling , and never gave his nigger a penny . 
No gentleman ! 'The others all assembled round Big Hand then , and , in their way , they said pretty much what Genet had said . 
The French was searching American ships on pretence they was helping England , but really for to steal the goods . 
His gentlemen put this very clear to Big Hand . 
They said that nine out of ten good Americans was crazy to fight the English then and there . 
They wouldn't say whether that was right or wrong they only wanted Big Hand to turn it over in his mind . 
He did for a while . 
I saw Red Jacket and Cornplanter watching him from the far side of the clearing , and how they had slipped round there was another mystery . 
Then Big Hand drew himself up , and he let his gentlemen have it . 
'Hit 'em ? Dan asked . 
'No , nor yet was it what you might call swearing . 
He he blasted 'em with his natural speech . 
He asked them half a dozen times over whether the United States had enough armed ships for any shape or sort of war with any one . 
He asked 'em , if they thought she had those ships , to give him those ships , and they looked on the ground , as if they expected to find 'em there . 
As I said , the strong way he laid it all before 'em blasted 'em , and when he'd done it was like a still in the woods after a storm . 
A little man but they all looked little pipes up like a young rook in a blowed down nest , Nevertheless , General , it seems you will be compelled to fight England . 
Quick Big Hand wheeled on him , And is there anything in my past which makes you think I am averse to fighting Great Britain ? 'Everybody laughed except him . 
Oh , General , you mistake us entirely ! they says . 
I trust so , he says . 
But I know my duty . 
We must have peace with England . 
At any price ? says the man with the rook's voice . 
At any price , says he , word by word . 
Our ships will be searched our citizens will be pressed , but Then what about the Declaration of Independence ? says one . 
Deal with facts , not fancies , says Big Hand . 
The United States are in no position to fight England . 
But think of public opinion , another one starts up . 
The feeling in Philadelphia alone is at fever heat . 
'He held up one of his big hands . 
Gentlemen , he says slow he spoke , but his voice carried far I have to think of our country . 
Let me assure you that the treaty with Great Britain will be made though every city in the Union burn me in effigy . 
At any price ? the actor like chap keeps on croaking . 
The treaty must be made on Great Britain's own terms . 
Then Red Jacket and Cornplanter rode down the clearing from the far end as though they had just chanced along . 
Back went Big Hand's shoulders , up went his head , and he stepped forward one single pace with a great deep Hough ! so pleased he was . 
That was a statelified meeting to behold three big men , and two of 'em looking like jewelled images among the spattle of gay coloured leaves . 
I saw my chiefs' war bonnets sinking together , down and down . 
'What did it mean ? said Dan . 
'Big Hand looked down on 'em . 
First he says quite softly , My brothers know it is not easy to be a chief . 
We will carry away that talk in our hearts to tell to our people . 
No , says Big Hand . 
Leave all that talk behind it was between white men only but take this message from me to your people 'There will be no war . 
You taught me to look behind trees when we were both young . 
And with that he cantered off . 
'Neither of my chiefs spoke till we were back on our ponies again and a half hour along the home trail . 
Then Cornplanter says to Red Jacket , We will have the Corn dance this year . 
There will be no war . 
And that was all there was to it . 
Pharaoh stood up as though he had finished . 
'Yes , said Puck , rising too . 
'And what came out of it in the long run ? 'Let me get at my story my own way , 'was the answer . 
'Look ! it's later than I thought . 
That Shoreham smack's thinking of her supper . 
The children looked across the darkening Channel . 
A smack had hoisted a lantern and slowly moved west where Brighton pier lights ran out in a twinkling line . 
When they turned round The Gap was empty behind them . 
'I expect they've packed our trunks by now , said Dan . 
'This time tomorrow we'll be home . 
How far is St Helena from a fight in Paris street ? I haven't time to answer now the men are falling fast . 
How far is St Helena from the field at Austerlitz ? You couldn't hear me if I told so loud the cannons roar . 
But not so far for people who are living by their wits . 
How far is St Helena from an Emperor of France ? I cannot see I cannot tell the crowns they dazzle so . 
The Kings sit down to dinner , and the Queens stand up to dance . 
How far is St Helena from the Capes of Trafalgar ? A longish way a longish way with ten year more to run . 
It's South across the water underneath a setting star . 
How far is St Helena from the Beresina ice ? An ill way a chill way the ice begins to crack . 
But not so far for gentlemen who never took advice . 
How far is St Helena from the field of Waterloo ? A near way a clear way the ship will take you soon . 
A pleasant place for gentlemen with little left to do . 
How far from St Helena to the Gate of Heaven's Grace ? That no one knows that no one knows and no one ever will . 
Soon they discovered that old Hobden had blocked their best hedge gaps with stakes and thorn bundles , and had trimmed up the hedges where the blackberries were setting . 
'it can't be time for the gipsies to come along , said Una . 
'Why , it was summer only the other day ! 'There's smoke in Low Shaw ! said Dan , sniffing . 
'Let's make sure ! They crossed the fields towards the thin line of blue smoke that leaned above the hollow of Low Shaw which lies beside the King's Hill road . 
It used to be an old quarry till somebody planted it , and you can look straight down into it from the edge of Banky Meadow . 
'I thought so , Dan whispered , as they came up to the fence at the edge of the larches . 
A gipsy van not the show man's sort , but the old black kind , with little windows high up and a baby gate across the door was getting ready to leave . 
A wise looking , thin dog snuffed at a patch of fur on the ground till the old woman put it carefully in the middle of the fire . 
The girl reached back inside the van and tossed her a paper parcel . 
This was laid on the fire too , and they smelt singed feathers . 
'Chicken feathers ! said Dan . 
'I wonder if they are old Hobden's . 
'Ah ! said the girl . 
'I'll teach you ! She beat the dog , who seemed to expect it . 
'Don't do that , Una called down . 
'How do you know what I'm beating him for ? she answered . 
'For not seeing us , said Dan . 
'He was standing right in the smoke , and the wind was wrong for his nose , anyhow . 
The girl stopped beating the dog , and the old woman fanned faster than ever . 
'You've fanned some of your feathers out of the fire , said Una . 
'There's a tail feather by that chestnut tot . 
'What of it ? said the old woman , as she grabbed it . 
'Oh , nothing ! said Dan . 
'Only I've heard say that tail feathers are as bad as the whole bird , sometimes . 
That was a saying of Hobden's about pheasants . 
Old Hobden always burned all feather and fur before he sat down to eat . 
'Come on , mother , the man whispered . 
The old woman climbed into the van , and the horses drew it out of the deep rutted shaw on to the hard road . 
The girl waved her hands and shouted something they could not catch . 
'That was gipsy for Thank you kindly , Brother and Sister , said Pharaoh Lee . 
He was standing behind them , his fiddle under his arm . 
'Gracious , you startled me ! said Una . 
'You startled old Priscilla Savile , Puck called from below them . 
'Come and sit by their fire . 
She ought to have put it out before they left . 
They dropped down the ferny side of the shaw . 
Una raked the ashes together , Dan found a dead wormy oak branch that burns without flame , and they watched the smoke while Pharaoh played a curious wavery air . 
'That's what the girl was humming to the baby , said Una . 
At last Puck asked him to go on with his adventures in Philadelphia and among the Seneca Indians . 
'I'm telling it , he said , staring straight in front of him as he played . 
'Can't you hear ? 'Maybe , but they can't . 
Tell it aloud , said Puck . 
Pharaoh shook himself , laid his fiddle beside him , and began 'I'd left Red Jacket and Cornplanter riding home with me after Big Hand had said that there wouldn't be any war . 
That's all there was to it . 
We believed Big Hand and we went home again we three braves . 
When we reached Lebanon we found Toby at the cottage with his waistcoat a foot too big for him so hard he had worked amongst the yellow fever people . 
No , I didn't neither . 
I'd thought that all along . 
That yellow fever must have been something dreadful . 
Even in December people had no more than begun to trinkle back to town . 
Whole houses stood empty and the niggers was robbing them out . 
But I can't call to mind that any of the Moravian Brethren had died . 
It seemed like they had just kept on with their own concerns , and the good Lord He'd just looked after 'em . 
That was the winter yes , winter of 'Ninety three the Brethren bought a stove for the church . 
They ended by casting the Lot for it , which is like pitch and toss . 
After my summer with the Senecas , church stoves didn't highly interest me , so I took to haunting round among the French emigres which Philadelphia was full of . 
My French and my fiddling helped me there , d'ye see . 
Pastor Meder and Brother Adam Goos didn't like my fiddling for hire , but Toby said it was lawful in me to earn my living by exercising my talents . 
He never let me be put upon . 
I showed him round the city , and we saw General Washington riding through a crowd of folk that shouted for war with England . 
They gave him quite rough music , but he looked 'twixt his horse's ears and made out not to notice . 
His stirrup brished Red Jacket's elbow , and Red Jacket whispered up , My brother knows it is not easy to be a chief . 
Big Hand shot just one look at him and nodded . 
Then there was a scuffle behind us over some one who wasn't hooting at Washington loud enough to please the people . 
We went away to be out of the fight . 
Indians won't risk being hit . 
'What do they do if they are ? Dan asked . 
That's why they have such proper manners . 
a lame Frenchman pushes a paper of buttons at us . 
He hadn't long landed in the United States , and please would we buy . 
He sure ly was a pitiful scrattel his coat half torn off , his face cut , but his hands steady so I knew it wasn't drink . 
He said his name was Peringuey , and he'd been knocked about in the crowd round the Stadt Independence Hall . 
One thing leading to another we took him up to Toby's rooms , same as Red Jacket had taken me the year before . 
He said he had been a clergyman before he had to leave France . 
He admired at Toby's fiddling , and he asked if Red Jacket , sitting by the spinet , was a simple Huron . 
Senecas aren't Hurons , they're Iroquois , of course , and Toby told him so . 
Well , then , in due time he arose and left in a style which made us feel he'd been favouring us , instead of us feeding him . 
I've never seen that so strong before in a man . 
Passing Drinker's Alley again we saw a naked window with a light in it , and there sat our button selling Monsieur Peringuey throwing dice all alone , right hand against left . 
'Says Red Jacket , keeping back in the dark , Look at his face ! 'I was looking . 
I protest to you I wasn't frightened like I was when Big Hand talked to his gentlemen . 
I I only looked , and I wondered that even those dead dumb dice 'ud dare to fall different from what that face wished . 
It it was a face ! He is bad , says Red Jacket . 
But he is a great chief . 
The French have sent away a great chief . 
I thought so when he told us his lies . 
'i had to go on to the party , so I asked him to call round for me afterwards and we'd have hymn singing at Toby's as usual . 
Tell Toby I am not Christian tonight . 
He had those fits sometimes . 
I wanted to know more about Monsieur Peringuey , and the emigre party was the very place to find out . 
It's neither here nor there , of course , but those French emigre parties they almost make you cry . 
It hurt me to take their money afterwards , indeed it did . 
And there I found out about Monsieur Peringuey . 
He was a proper rogue too ! None of 'em had a good word for him except the Marquise that kept the French boarding house on Fourth Street . 
I made out that his real name was the Count Talleyrand de Perigord a priest right enough , but sorely come down in the world . 
I'm telling you the talk in the washhouse . 
Some of 'em was laughing over it . 
Says the French Marquise , My friends , you laugh too soon . 
That man 'll be on the winning side before any of us . 
I did not know you were so fond of priests , Marquise , says the Vicomte . 
His lady did my washing , as I've told you . 
I have my reasons , says the Marquise . 
He sent my uncle and my two brothers to Heaven by the little door , that was one of the emigre names for the guillotine . 
He will be on the winning side if it costs him the blood of every friend he has in the world . 
Then what does he want here ? says one of 'em . 
We have all lost our game . 
My faith ! says the Marquise . 
He will find out , if any one can , whether this canaille of a Washington means to help us to fight England . 
hasn't done any better , but our Abbe will find out , and he will make his profit out of the news . 
Such a man does not fall . 
He begins unluckily , says the Vicomte . 
He was set upon today in the street for not hooting your Washington . 
One does what one can , he says . 
And you , Marquise ? I ? she waves her poor white hands all burned I am a cook a very bad one at your service , Abbe . 
We were just talking about you . 
They didn't treat him like they talked of him . 
They backed off and stood still . 
I have missed something , then , he says . 
But I spent this last hour playing only for buttons , Marquise against a noble savage , the veritable Huron himself . 
You had your usual luck , I hope ? she says . 
I cannot afford to lose even buttons in these days . 
Then I suppose the child of nature does not know that your dice are usually loaded , Father Tout a tous , she continues . 
I don't know whether she meant to accuse him of cheating . 
Not yet , Mademoiselle Cunegonde , he says , and goes on to make himself agreeable to the rest of the company . 
And that was how I found out our Monsieur Peringuey was Count Charles Maurice Talleyrand de Perigord . 
Pharaoh stopped , but the children said nothing . 
'You've heard of him ? said Pharaoh . 
'Was Red Jacket the Indian he played dice with ? Dan asked . 
Red Jacket told me the next time we met . 
I asked if the lame man had cheated . 
Red Jacket said no he had played quite fair and was a master player . 
I allow Red Jacket knew . 
I've seen him , on the Reservation , play himself out of everything he had and in again . 
Then I told Red Jacket all I'd heard at the party concerning Talleyrand . 
I was right , he says . 
I saw the man's war face when he thought he was alone . 
That's why I played him . 
I played him face to face . 
Do they say why he comes here ? They say he comes to find out if Big Hand makes war against the English , I said . 
He asked me that too . 
If he had been a small chief I should have lied . 
But he is a great chief . 
He knew I was a chief , so I told him the truth . 
I told him what Big Hand said to Cornplanter and me in the clearing 'There will be no war . 
I could not see what he thought . 
I could not see behind his face . 
But he is a great chief . 
Will he believe that Big Hand can keep his people back from war ? I said , thinking of the crowds that hooted Big Hand whenever he rode out . 
He is as bad as Big Hand is good , but he is not as strong as Big Hand , says Red Jacket . 
When he talks with Big Hand he will feel this in his heart . 
The French have sent away a great chief . 
Presently he will go back and make them afraid . 
'And was he something by himself ? asked Una . 
Pharaoh began to laugh , but stopped . 
'The way I look at it , 'he said , 'Talleyrand was one of just three men in this world who are quite by themselves . 
Big Hand I put first , because I've seen him . 
'I'm sorry we lost him out of Old England . 
Who d'you put second ? 'Talleyrand maybe because I've seen him too , said Pharaoh . 
'Who's third ? 'said Puck . 
'Boney even though I've seen him . 
'Every man has his own weights and measures , but that's queer reckoning . 
'You don't mean you've ever met Napoleon Bonaparte ? 'There , I knew you wouldn't have patience with the rest of my tale after hearing that ! But wait a minute . 
Talleyrand he come round to Hundred and Eighteen in a day or two to thank Toby for his kindness . 
I didn't mention the dice playing , but I could see that Red Jacket's doings had made Talleyrand highly curious about Indians though he would call him the Huron . 
Toby , as you may believe , was all holds full of knowledge concerning their manners and habits . 
He only needed a listener . 
The Brethren don't study Indians much till they join the Church , but Toby knew 'em wild . 
So evening after evening Talleyrand crossed his sound leg over his game one and Toby poured forth . 
Then he tried a trick . 
Red Jacket hadn't told , and Toby , of course , didn't know . 
Now , he says , my English and Red Jacket's French was so bad that I am not sure I got the rights of what the President really said to the unsophisticated Huron . 
Do me the favour of telling it again . 
I told him every word Red Jacket had told him and not one word more . 
I had my suspicions , having just come from an emigre party where the Marquise was hating and praising him as usual . 
Much obliged , he said . 
But I couldn't gather from Red Jacket exactly what the President said to Monsieur Genet , or to his American gentlemen after Monsieur Genet had ridden away . 
'I saw Talleyrand was guessing again , for Red Jacket hadn't told him a word about the white men's pow wow . 
'Why hadn't he ? Puck asked . 
'Because Red Jacket was a chief . 
He told Talleyrand what the President had said to him and Cornplanter but he didn't repeat the talk , between the white men , that Big Hand ordered him to leave behind . 
What did you do ? 'First I was going to make some sort of tale round it , but Talleyrand was a chief too . 
So I said , As soon as I get Red Jacket's permission to tell that part of the tale , I'll be delighted to refresh your memory , Abbe . 
What else could I have done ? Is that all ? he says , laughing . 
Let me refresh your memory . 
In a month from now I can give you a hundred dollars for your account of the conversation . 
Make it five hundred , Abbe , I says . 
Five , then , says he . 
That will suit me admirably , I says . 
Red Jacket will be in town again by then , and the moment he gives me leave I'll claim the money . 
'He had a hard fight to be civil , but he come out smiling . 
Monsieur , he says , I beg your pardon as sincerely as I envy the noble Huron your loyalty . 
Do me the honour to sit down while I explain . 
'There wasn't another chair , so I sat on the button box . 
'He was a clever man . 
He had got hold of the gossip that the President meant to make a peace treaty with England at any cost . 
He had found out from Genet , I reckon , who was with the President on the day the two chiefs met him . 
He'd heard that Genet had had a huff with the President and had ridden off leaving his business at loose ends . 
He put it to me that in helping him to those very words I'd be helping three great countries as well as mankind . 
The room was as bare as the palm of your hand , but I couldn't laugh at him . 
I'm sorry , I says , when he wiped his forehead . 
As soon as Red Jacket gives permission You don't believe me , then ? he cuts in . 
Not one little , little word , Abbe , I says except that you mean to be on the winning side . 
Remember , I've been fiddling to all your old friends for months . 
'Well , then his temper fled him and he called me names . 
Wait a minute , ci devant , I says at last . 
I am half English and half French , but I am not the half of a man . 
I will tell thee something the Indian told me . 
Has thee seen the President ? Oh yes ! he sneers . 
I had letters from the Lord Lansdowne to that estimable old man . 
Then , I says , thee will understand . 
The Red Skin said that when thee has met the President thee will feel in thy heart he is a stronger man than thee . 
Before I kill thee , go . 
'Why did he want to know so badly ? said Dan . 
just think of us poor shop keepers , for instance . 
'Did Red Jacket let you tell , when he came back ? Una asked . 
He said , When Cornplanter and I ask you what Big Hand said to the whites you can tell the Lame Chief . 
All that talk was left behind in the timber , as Big Hand ordered . 
Tell the Lame Chief there will be no war . 
He can go back to France with that word . 
'Talleyrand and me hadn't met for a long time except at emigre parties . 
When I give him the message he just shook his head . 
He was sorting buttons in the shop . 
'I cannot return to France with nothing better than the word of an unsophisticated savage , he says . 
Hasn't the President said anything to you ? I asked him . 
I'm sorry , I says . 
Maybe you'll do that without my help . 
'He looked at me hard . 
Either you have unusual observation for one so young , or you choose to be insolent , he says . 
It was intended for a compliment , I says . 
We're off in a few days for our summer trip , and I've come to make my good byes . 
I go on my travels too , he says . 
If ever we meet again you may be sure I will do my best to repay what I owe you . 
Without malice , Abbe , I hope , I says . 
None whatever , says he . 
I never could teach him the difference betwixt Hurons and Senecas . 
'Then Sister Haga came in for a paper of what we call pilly buttons , and that was the last I saw of Talleyrand in those parts . 
'But after that you met Napoleon , didn't you ? said Una . 
'Wait Just a little , dearie . 
'Twould have ruined our music together , indeed it would . 
And when we escaped that , old Mattes Roush , the leather breeches maker round the corner , took a notion I was cut out for skin dressing . 
I wished Toby to share the money . 
I hadn't done more than bring Talleyrand up to Hundred and Eighteen . 
But Toby said , No ! Liberty and Independence for ever . 
I have all my wants , my son . 
So I gave him a set of new fiddle strings , and the Brethren didn't advise us any more . 
Only Pastor Meder he preached about the deceitfulness of riches , and Brother Adam Goos said if there was war the English 'ud surely shoot down the Bank . 
That way , I doubled my money inside the twelvemonth . 
'You gipsy ! You proper gipsy ! Puck shouted . 
'Why not ? 'Twas fair buying and selling . 
Well , one thing leading to another , in a few years I had made the beginning of a worldly fortune and was in the tobacco trade . 
'Ah ! said Puck , suddenly . 
'Might I inquire if you'd ever sent any news to your people in England or in France ? 'O' course I had . 
I wrote regular every three months after I'd made money in the horse trade . 
We Lees don't like coming home empty handed . 
If it's only a turnip or an egg , it's something . 
'I see Aurettes and Lees Like as two peas . 
Go on , Brother Square toes , said Puck . 
Pharaoh laughed and went on . 
'Talleyrand he'd gone up in the world same as me . 
All our poor emigres said he was surely finished this time , but Red Jacket and me we didn't think it likely , not unless he was quite dead . 
Those two was fighting , and just as his gentlemen told Big Hand 'ud happen the United States was catching it from both . 
If an English man o' war met an American ship he'd press half the best men out of her , and swear they was British subjects . 
Luckily I could lay my hands on both articles . 
'Where was you bound for ? Puck asked . 
'Er any port I found handiest . 
I didn't tell Toby or the Brethren . 
They don't understand the ins and outs of the tobacco trade . 
Puck coughed a small cough as he shifted a piece of wood with his bare foot . 
'It's easy for you to sit and judge , Pharaoh cried . 
'But think o' what we had to put up with ! We spread our wings and run across the broad Atlantic like a hen through a horse fair . 
Even so , we was stopped by an English frigate , three days out . 
He sent a boat alongside and pressed seven able seamen . 
I remarked it was hard on honest traders , but the officer said they was fighting all creation and hadn't time to argue . 
The next English frigate we escaped with no more than a shot in our quarter . 
That's how we reached to the chops of the Channel . 
We warned him to keep away , but he fell aboard us , and up climbed his Jabbering red caps . 
We couldn't endure any more indeed we couldn't . 
We went at 'em with all we could lay hands on . 
They was fifty odd to our twenty three . 
Pretty soon I heard the cutlasses thrown down and some one bellowed for the sacri captain . 
Here I am ! I says . 
I don't suppose it makes any odds to you thieves , but this is the United States brig BERTHE AURETTE . 
My aunt ! the man says , laughing . 
Why is she named that ? Who's speaking ? I said . 
'Twas too dark to see , but I thought I knew the voice . 
Enseigne de Vaisseau Estephe L'Estrange , he sings out , and then I was sure . 
It's all in the family , I suppose , but you have done a fine day's work , Stephen . 
'He whips out the binnacle light and holds it to my face . 
He was young L'Estrange , my full cousin , that I hadn't seen since the night the smack sank off Telscombe Tye six years before . 
That's why she was named for Aunt Berthe , is it ? What's your share in her , Pharaoh ? Only half owner , but the cargo's mine . 
That's bad , he says . 
I'll do what I can , but you shouldn't have fought us . 
But two of our men are dead , d'ye see , and I'm afraid I'll have to take you to the Prize Court at Le Havre . 
Will they condemn my 'baccy ? I asks . 
But I was thinking more of the ship . 
She'd make a sweet little craft for the Navy if the Prize Court 'ud let me have her , he says . 
'Then I knew there was no hope . 
My cousin spoke his best for us at the Prize Court . 
They was kind enough not to make us prisoners only beggars and young L'Estrange was given the BERTHE AURETTE to re arm into the French Navy . 
I'll take you round to Boulogne , he says . 
Mother and the rest'll be glad to see you , and you can slip over to Newhaven with Uncle Aurette . 
Or you can ship with me , like most o' your men , and take a turn at King George's loose trade . 
There's plenty pickings , he says . 
'Crazy as I was , I couldn't help laughing . 
I've had my allowance of pickings and stealings , I says . 
Where are they taking my tobacco ? 'Twas being loaded on to a barge . 
Up the Seine to be sold in Paris , he says . 
Neither you nor I will ever touch a penny of that money . 
Get me leave to go with it , I says . 
I'll see if there's justice to be gotten out of our American Ambassador . 
There's not much justice in this world , he says , without a Navy . 
But he got me leave to go with the barge and he gave me some money . 
That tobacco was all I had , and I followed it like a hound follows a snatched bone . 
Going up the river I fiddled a little to keep my spirits up , as well as to make friends with the guard . 
They was only doing their duty . 
Outside o' that they were the reasonablest o' God's creatures . 
They never even laughed at me . 
So we come to Paris , by river , along in November , which the French had christened Brumaire . 
They'd given new names to all the months , and after such an outrageous silly piece o' business as that , they wasn't likely to trouble 'emselves with my rights and wrongs . 
Looking back on it I can't rightly blame 'em . 
The thieves ! The door keeper to the American Ambassador for I never saw even the Secretary he swore I spoke French a sight too well for an American citizen . 
'I come back to the barge one day late in this month Brumaire it was fair beazled out . 
Old Maingon , the caretaker , he'd lit a fire in a bucket and was grilling a herring . 
Courage , mon ami , he says . 
I can't eat , I says . 
I can't do any more . 
It's stronger than I am . 
Nothing's stronger than a man . 
Me , for example ! Less than two years ago I was blown up in the Orient in Aboukir Bay , but I descended again and hit the water like a fairy . 
Look at me now , he says . 
He wasn't much to look at , for he'd only one leg and one eye , but the cheerfullest soul that ever trod shoe leather . 
That's worse than a hundred and eleven hogshead of 'baccy , he goes on . 
You're young , too ! What wouldn't I give to be young in France at this hour ! There's nothing you couldn't do , he says . 
The ball's at your feet kick it ! he says . 
He kicks the old fire bucket with his peg leg . 
General Buonaparte , for example ! he goes on . 
That man's a babe compared to me , and see what he's done already . 
'I says something about Boney . 
If he hadn't been fighting England I shouldn't have lost my 'baccy should I ? Young fellow , says Maingon , you don't understand . 
A carriage passed over the bridge with two in it . 
That's the man himself , says Maingon . 
He'll give 'em something to cheer for soon . 
He stands at the salute . 
Who's t'other in black beside him ? I asks , fairly shaking all over . 
Ah ! he's the clever one . 
You'll hear of him before long . 
He's that scoundrel bishop , Talleyrand . 
That is a good omen ! he says to Boney sitting all hunched up and he looks straight at me . 
Abbe oh , Abbe ! I says . 
Don't you remember Toby and Hundred and Eighteen Second Street ? 'He said not a word . 
You go there , says a soldier , and shoves me into an empty room , where I catched my first breath since I'd left the barge . 
Presently I heard plates rattling next door there were only folding doors between and a cork drawn . 
I tell you , some one shouts with his mouth full , it was all that sulky ass Sieyes' fault . 
Only my speech to the Five Hundred saved the situation . 
Did it save your coat ? says Talleyrand . 
I hear they tore it when they threw you out . 
You may be in the road of victory , but you aren't there yet . 
'Then I guessed t'other man was Boney . 
He stamped about and swore at Talleyrand . 
You forget yourself , Consul , says Talleyrand , or rather you remember yourself Corsican . 
Pig ! says Boney , and worse . 
Emperor ! says Talleyrand , but , the way he spoke , it sounded worst of all . 
Some one must have backed against the folding doors , for they flew open and showed me in the middle of the room . 
Boney whipped out his pistol before I could stand up . 
General , says Talleyrand to him , this gentleman has a habit of catching us canaille en deshabille . 
'Boney laid it on the table , so I guessed which was master . 
Talleyrand takes my hand Charmed to see you again , Candide , he says . 
How is the adorable Dr Pangloss and the noble Huron ? They were doing very well when I left , I said . 
Do you sell buttons now ? he says , and fills me a glass of wine off the table . 
Not so good as some I have drunk . 
You mountebank ! Boney roars . 
Pheasant is not so good as pork , he says . 
You will find some at that table if you will do me the honour to sit down . 
Pass him a clean plate , General . 
And , as true as I'm here , Boney slid a plate along just like a sulky child . 
He was a lanky haired , yellow skinned little man , as nervous as a cat and as dangerous . 
Boney began by listening , but after a bit he dropped into his own thoughts and looked at the crowd sideways through the front room curtains . 
Talleyrand called to him when I'd done . 
Eh ? What we need now , says Boney , is peace for the next three or four years . 
Quite so , says Talleyrand . 
Meantime I want the Consul's order to the Prize Court at Le Havre to restore my friend here his ship . 
Ah , General ! says Talleyrand . 
You are a magician a magician without morals . 
But the brig is undoubtedly American , and we don't want to offend them more than we have . 
Need anybody talk about the affair ? he says . 
He didn't look at me , but I knew what was in his mind just cold murder because I worried him and he'd order it as easy as ordering his carriage . 
You can't stop 'em , I said . 
There's twenty two other men besides me . 
I felt a little more 'ud set me screaming like a wired hare . 
Undoubtedly American , Talleyrand goes on . 
A good idea ! Boney answers . 
One could say much in a message . 
It might be useful , says Talleyrand . 
Shall I have the message prepared ? He wrote something in a little pocket ledger . 
Yes for me to embellish this evening . 
The MONITEUR will publish it tonight . 
Sign , please , says Talleyrand , tearing the leaf out . 
But that's the order to return the brig , says Boney . 
Is that necessary ? Why should I lose a good ship ? Haven't I lost enough ships already ? 'Talleyrand didn't answer any of those questions . 
Then Boney sidled up to the table and jabs his pen into the ink . 
Then he shies at the paper again My signature alone is useless , he says . 
You must have the other two Consuls as well . 
Sieyes and Roger Ducos must sign . 
We must preserve the Laws . 
By the time my friend presents it , says Talleyrand , still looking out of window , only one signature will be necessary . 
It's a swindle , says he , but he signed and pushed the paper across . 
Give that to the President of the Prize Court at Le Havre , says Talleyrand , and he will give you back your ship . 
I will settle for the cargo myself . 
You have told me how much it cost . 
'I guessed that all along , said Puck . 
'There was never a Lee to Warminghurst That wasn't a smuggler last and first . 
'It's comical enough now , said Pharaoh . 
'But I didn't laugh then . 
Says Talleyrand after a minute , I am a bad accountant and I have several calculations on hand at present . 
Shall we say twice the cost of the cargo ? 'Say ? I couldn't say a word . 
I sat choking and nodding like a China image while he wrote an order to his secretary to pay me , I won't say how much , because you wouldn't believe it . 
Oh ! Bless you , Abbe ! God bless you ! I got it out at last . 
Yes , he says , I am a priest in spite of myself , but they call me Bishop now . 
Take this for my episcopal blessing , and he hands me the paper . 
He stole all that money from me , says Boney over my shoulder . 
A Bank of France is another of the things we must make . 
Are you mad ? he shouts at Talleyrand . 
Quite , says Talleyrand , getting up . 
The disease will never attack you . 
This gentleman found me in the street and fed me when I was hungry . 
I see and he has made a fine scene of it , and you have paid him , I suppose . 
Oh ! poor France ! says Talleyrand . 
Good bye , Candide , he says to me . 
And that was all there was to it . 
Pharaoh stood up and slid his fiddle into one of his big skirt pockets as though it were a dead hare . 
'Oh ! but we want to know lots and lots more , 'said Dan . 
'Yes , and Red Jacket , said Dan . 
'Won't you tell us any more ? they both pleaded . 
Puck kicked the oak branch on the fire , till it sent up a column of smoke that made them sneeze . 
When they had finished the Shaw was empty except for old Hobden stamping through the larches . 
'They gipsies have took two , 'he said . 
My black pullet and my liddle gingy speckled cockrel . 
'I thought so , said Dan , picking up one tail feather that the old woman had overlooked . 
'Which way did they go ? Which way did the runagates go ? said Hobden . 
, So swiftly we stand to the Nor'ard again And finding the tail of A homeward bound convoy , We slip past the Scillies like poor honest men . 
Even then we have dangers From meddlesome strangers , Who spy on our business and are not content To take a smooth answer , Except with a handspike . 
But the Saxons were keeping Christmas , And the night was stormy as well . 
Nobody came to service Though Eddi rang the bell . 
'Wicked weather for walking , Said Eddi of Manhood End . 
'But I must go on with the service For such as care to attend . 
The altar candles were lighted , An old marsh donkey came , Bold as a guest invited , And stared at the guttering flame . 
The storm beat on at the windows , The water splashed on the floor , And a wet yoke weary bullock Pushed in through the open door . 
'How do I know what is greatest , How do I know what is least ? That is My Father's business , Said Eddi , Wilfrid's priest . 
'But , three are gathered together Listen to me and attend . 
I bring good news , my brethren ! Said Eddi , of Manhood End . 
And he told the Ox of a manger And a stall in Bethlehem , And he spoke to the Ass of a Rider That rode to jerusalem . 
They steamed and dripped in the chancel , They listened and never stirred , While , just as though they were Bishops , Eddi preached them The Word . 
Till the gale blew off on the marshes And the windows showed the day , And the Ox and the Ass together Wheeled and clattered away . 
And when the Saxons mocked him , Said Eddi of Manhood End , 'I dare not shut His chapel On such as care to attend . 
Una pulled out the shaving and put in a peppermint . 
Young Sam Kidbrooke's voice came from the bell tower and made them jump . 
They laughed it was so exactly like Mr Kidbrooke . 
'It's all right , Una called up the stairs . 
'We found him , Sam . 
Does his mother know ? 'He's come off by himself . 
She'll be justabout crazy , Sam answered . 
'Then I'll run down street and tell her . 
'Thank you , Miss Una . 
Old Mr Kidbrooke on the floor beneath was planing a piece of wood , and Jimmy was eating the shavings as fast as they came away . 
He never looked at Jimmy Jimmy never stopped eating and the broad gilt bobbed pendulum of the church clock never stopped swinging across the white washed wall of the tower . 
Dan winked through the sawdust that fell on his upturned face . 
'Ring a bell , he called . 
, I mustn't do that , but I'll buzz one of 'em a bit for you , said Sam . 
He pounded on the sound bow of the biggest bell , and waked a hollow groaning boom that ran up and down the tower like creepy feelings down your back . 
just when it almost began to hurt , it died away in a hurry of beautiful sorrowful cries , like a wine glass rubbed with a wet finger . 
The pendulum clanked one loud clank to each silent swing . 
Dan heard Una return from Mrs Kidbrooke's , and ran down to fetch her . 
She was standing by the font staring at some one who kneeled at the Altar rail . 
'Is that the Lady who practises the organ ? she whispered . 
She's gone into the organ place . 
Besides , she wears black , Dan replied . 
The figure rose and came down the nave . 
It was a white haired man in a long white gown with a sort of scarf looped low on the neck , one end hanging over his shoulder . 
His loose long sleeves were embroidered with gold , and a deep strip of gold embroidery waved and sparkled round the hem of his gown . 
'Go and meet him , said Puck's voice behind the font . 
'Wilfrid who ? said Dan . 
'Wilfrid Saint of Sussex , and Archbishop of York . 
I shall wait till he asks me . 
Their feet squeaked on the old grave slabs in the centre aisle . 
The Archbishop raised one hand with a pink ring on it , and said something in Latin . 
He was very handsome , and his thin face looked almost as silvery as his thin circle of hair . 
'Are you alone ? he asked . 
'Puck's here , of course , said Una . 
'Do you know him ? 'I know him better now than I used to . 
He beckoned over Dan's shoulder , and spoke again in Latin . 
Puck pattered forward , holding himself as straight as an arrow . 
'Be welcome , said he . 
'Welcome to you also , O Prince of the church , Puck replied . 
The Archbishop bowed his head and passed on , till he glimmered like a white moth in the shadow by the font . 
'He does look awfully princely , said Una . 
'Isn't he coming back ? 'Oh yes . 
He's only looking over the church . 
He's very fond of churches , said Puck . 
'What's that ? The Lady who practices the organ was speaking to the blower boy behind the organ screen . 
'We can't very well talk here , Puck whispered . 
'Let's go to Panama Corner . 
He led them to the end of the south aisle , where there is a slab of iron which says in queer , long tailed letters ORATE P. ANNEMA JHONE COLINE . 
The children always called it Panama Corner . 
The Archbishop moved slowly about the little church , peering at the old memorial tablets and the new glass windows . 
The Lady who practises the organ began to pull out stops and rustle hymn books behind the screen . 
'I hope she'll do all the soft lacey tunes like treacle on porridge , said Una . 
'I like the trumpety ones best , said Dan . 
'Oh , look at Wilfrid ! He's trying to shut the Altar gates ! 'Tell him he mustn't , said Puck , quite seriously . 
He can't , anyhow , Dan muttered , and tiptoed out of Panama Corner while the Archbishop patted and patted at the carved gates that always sprang open again beneath his hand . 
'That's no use , sir , Dan whispered . 
'Old Mr Kidbrooke says Altar gates are just the one pair of gates which no man can shut . 
He made 'em so himself . 
The Archbishop's blue eyes twinkled . 
Dan saw that he knew all about it . 
'I beg your pardon , Dan stammered very angry with Puck . 
'Yes , I know ! He made them so Himself . 
The Archbishop smiled , and crossed to Panama Corner , where Una dragged up a certain padded arm chair for him to sit on . 
'What does that music say ? 'he asked . 
Una dropped into the chant without thinking O all ye works of the Lord , bless ye the Lord praise him and magnify him for ever . 
We call it the Noah's Ark , because it's all lists of things beasts and birds and whales , you know . 
'Whales ? said the Archbishop quickly . 
'Yes O ye whales , and all that move in the waters , Una hummed Bless ye the Lord . 
'A seal moves wonderfully in the waters . 
Do the seal come to my island still ? Puck shook his head . 
'All those little islands have been swept away . 
The tides ran fiercely down there . 
Do you know the land of the Sea calf , maiden ? 'No but we've seen seals at Brighton . 
'The Archbishop is thinking of a little farther down the coast . 
He means Seal's Eye Selsey down Chichester way where he converted the South Saxons , Puck explained . 
'Yes yess if the South Saxons did not convert me , said the Archbishop , smiling . 
'The first time I was wrecked was on that coast . 
'What did you do ? Dan asked . 
'One couldn't very well go back to France , so one tried to make them go back to the shore . 
All the South Saxons are born wreckers , like my own Northumbrian folk . 
I was bringing over a few things for my old church at York , and some of the natives laid hands on them , and and I'm afraid I lost my temper . 
'it is said Puck's voice was wickedly meek 'that there was a great fight . 
Eh , but I must ha' been a silly lad . 
Wilfrid spoke with a sudden thick burr in his voice . 
He coughed , and took up his silvery tones again . 
'There was no fight really . 
My men thumped a few of them , but the tide rose half an hour before its time , with a strong wind , and we backed off . 
What I wanted to say , though , was , that the seas about us were full of sleek seals watching the scuffle . 
My good Eddi my chaplain insisted that they were demons . 
Yes yess ! That was my first acquaintance with the South Saxons and their seals . 
'But not the only time you were wrecked , was it ? said Dan . 
'Alas , no ! On sea and land my life seems to have been one long shipwreck . 
He looked at the Jhone Coline slab as old Hobden sometimes looks into the fire . 
'Ah , well ! 'But did you ever have any more adventures among the seals ? said Una , after a little . 
'Oh , the seals ! I beg your pardon . 
They are the important things . 
Yes yess ! I went back to the South Saxons after twelve fifteen years . 
No , I did not come by water , but overland from my own Northumbria , to see what I could do . 
It's little one can do with that class of native except make them stop killing each other and themselves 'Why did they kill themselves ? Una asked , her chin in her hand . 
they would jump into the sea . 
They called it going to Wotan . 
It wasn't want of food always by any means . 
One had to run quick , but one can't allow people to lay hands on themselves because they happen to feel grey . 
Yes yess Extraordinary people , the South Saxons . 
What does that say now ? The organ had changed tune again . 
'Only a hymn for next Sunday , said Una . 
Go on , please , about running over the mud . 
I should like to have seen you . 
'I dare say you would , and I really could run in those days . 
My good Eddi disliked seals but he swallowed his objections and ran like a hare . 
'For the same reason that I did . 
We thought it was one of our people going to drown himself . 
As a matter of fact , Eddi and I were nearly drowned in the pools before we overtook him . 
To cut a long story short , we found ourselves very muddy , very breathless , being quietly made fun of in good Latin by a very well spoken person . 
No he'd no idea of going to Wotan . 
He was fishing on his own beaches , and he showed us the beacons and turf heaps that divided his land from the church property . 
We found we had scores of acquaintances in common . 
It seemed he was a small chief under King Ethelwalch , and I fancy the King was somewhat afraid of him . 
The South Saxons mistrust a man who talks too well . 
Ah ! Now , I've left out the very point of my story . 
He kept a great grey muzzled old dog seal that he had brought up from a pup . 
He called it Padda after one of my clergy . 
It was rather like fat , honest old Padda . 
The creature followed him everywhere , and nearly knocked down my good Eddi when we first met him . 
It used to sniff at his thin legs and cough at him . 
, till one day Eddi came to me with a circumstantial account of some witchcraft that Meon worked . 
He would tell the seal to go down to the beach the last thing at night , and bring him word of the weather . 
When it came back , Meon might say to his slaves , Padda thinks we shall have wind tomorrow . 
Haul up the boats ! I spoke to Meon casually about the story , and he laughed . 
'He told me he could judge by the look of the creature's coat and the way it sniffed what weather was brewing . 
One need not put down everything one does not understand to the work of bad spirits or good ones , for that matter . 
He nodded towards Puck , who nodded gaily in return . 
'I say so , he went on , 'because to a certain extent I have been made a victim of that habit of mind . 
Some while after I was settled at Selsey , King Ethelwalch and Queen Ebba ordered their people to be baptized . 
No rain had fallen for two or three years , but as soon as we had finished baptizing , it fell heavily , and they all said it was a miracle . 
'And was it ? Dan asked . 
He was perfectly open about it . 
He looked on the King's action as a heathen attempt to curry favour with the Christians' God through me the Archbishop , and he would have none of it . 
Even if I don't , he said , why should I insult the memory of my fathers' Gods ? I have sent you a hundred and three of my rascals to christen . 
Isn't that enough ? By no means , I answered . 
He wants us ! What do you think of that , Padda ? He pulled the seal's whiskers till it threw back its head and roared , and he pretended to interpret . 
No ! Padda says he won't be baptized yet awhile . 
He says you'll stay to dinner and come fishing with me tomorrow , because you're over worked and need a rest . 
I wish you'd keep yon brute in its proper place , I said , and Eddi , my chaplain , agreed . 
I do , said Meon . 
I keep him just next my heart . 
He can't tell a lie , and he doesn't know how to love any one except me . 
'Then Meon began to tease Eddi Padda says , if Eddi saw his Archbishop dying on a mud bank Eddi would tuck up his gown and run . 
Padda knows Eddi can run too ! Padda came into Wittering Church last Sunday all wet to hear the music , and Eddi ran out . 
'My good Eddi rubbed his hands and his shins together , and flushed . 
Padda is a child of the Devil , who is the father of lies ! he cried , and begged my pardon for having spoken . 
You are just about stupid enough for a musician , said Meon . 
Sing a hymn to him , and see if he can stand it . 
You'll find my small harp beside the fireplace . 
'Eddi , who is really an excellent musician , played and sang for quite half an hour . 
Padda shuffled off his ox hide , hunched himself on his flippers before him , and listened with his head thrown back . 
Yes yess ! A rather funny sight ! Meon tried not to laugh , and asked Eddi if he were satisfied . 
'It takes some time to get an idea out of my good Eddi's head . 
Do you want to sprinkle him with holy water , and see if he flies up the chimney ? Why not baptize him ? said Meon . 
I thought it was bad taste myself . 
That's not fair , said Meon . 
You call him a demon and a familiar spirit because he loves his master and likes music , and when I offer you a chance to prove it you won't take it . 
Look here ! I'll make a bargain . 
I'll be baptized if you'll baptize Padda too . 
He's more of a man than most of my slaves . 
One doesn't bargain or joke about these matters , I said . 
He was going altogether too far . 
Quite right , said Meon I shouldn't like any one to joke about Padda . 
Padda , go down to the beach and bring us tomorrow's weather ! 'My good Eddi must have been a little over tired with his day's work . 
I am a servant of the church , he cried . 
My business is to save souls , not to enter into fellowships and understandings with accursed beasts . 
Have it your own narrow way , said Meon . 
Padda , you needn't go . 
The old fellow flounced back to his ox hide at once . 
Man could learn obedience at least from that creature , said Eddi , a little ashamed of himself . 
Don't begin to apologise Just when I am beginning to like you , said Meon . 
We'll leave Padda behind tomorrow out of respect to your feelings . 
Now let's go to supper . 
We must be up early tomorrow for the whiting . 
'The next was a beautiful crisp autumn morning a weather breeder , if I had taken the trouble to think but it's refreshing to escape from kings and converts for half a day . 
We three went by ourselves in Meon's smallest boat , and we got on the whiting near an old wreck , a mile or so off shore . 
Meon knew the marks to a yard , and the fish were keen . 
Yes yess ! A perfect morning's fishing ! If a Bishop can't be a fisherman , who can ? He twiddled his ring again . 
'We stayed there a little too long , and while we were getting up our stone , down came the fog . 
After some discussion , we decided to row for the land . 
The ebb was just beginning to make round the point , and sent us all ways at once like a coracle . 
'Selsey Bill , said Puck under his breath . 
'The tides run something furious there . 
'I believe you , said the Archbishop . 
'Meon and I have spent a good many evenings arguing as to where exactly we drifted . 
We had just time to shuffle through the weed before the next wave . 
It's rather a pity we didn't let Padda go down to the beach last night , said Meon . 
He might have warned us this was coming . 
Better fall into the hands of God than the hands of demons , said Eddi , and his teeth chattered as he prayed . 
A nor' west breeze had just got up distinctly cool . 
Save what you can of the boat , said Meon we may need it , and we had to drench ourselves again , fishing out stray planks . 
'What for ? said Dan . 
We did not know when we should get off . 
Eddi had flint and steel , and we found dry fuel in the old gulls' nests and lit a fire . 
It smoked abominably , and we guarded it with boat planks up ended between the rocks . 
One gets used to that sort of thing if one travels . 
Unluckily I'm not so strong as I was . 
I fear I must have been a trouble to my friends . 
It was blowing a full gale before midnight . 
Eddi wrung out his cloak , and tried to wrap me in it , but I ordered him on his obedience to keep it . 
You are right in half your prophecy , said Eddi . 
I have tucked up my gown , at any rate . 
Now let us thank God for His mercies . 
If this gale lasts , we stand a very fair chance of dying of starvation . 
If it be God's will that we survive , God will provide , said Eddi . 
At least help me to sing to Him . 
The wind almost whipped the words out of his mouth , but he braced himself against a rock and sang psalms . 
There was rain water in the rock pools , and , as a churchman , I knew how to fast , but I admit we were hungry . 
Meon fed our fire chip by chip to eke it out , and they made me sit over it , the dear fellows , when I was too weak to object . 
Meon held me in his arms the second night , just like a child . 
My good Eddi was a little out of his senses , and imagined himself teaching a York choir to sing . 
Even so , he was beautifully patient with them . 
'I heard Meon whisper , If this keeps up we shall go to our Gods . 
I wonder what Wotan will say to me . 
He must know I don't believe in him . 
On the other hand , I can't do what Ethelwalch finds so easy curry favour with your God at the last minute , in the hope of being saved as you call it . 
But if it's only your Jutish pride that holds you back , lift me up , and I'll baptize you even now . 
Lie still , said Meon . 
I could judge better if I were in my own hall . 
It did not seem to me the time or the place for subtle arguments , so I answered , No , I certainly should not desert my God . 
I don't see even now what else I could have said . 
I'm giving Wotan his chance , he said . 
Our dear Eddi ambled up , still beating time to his imaginary choir . 
Call on your Gods , he cried , and see what gifts they will send you . 
They are gone on a journey , or they are hunting . 
I could not help smiling at Eddi's face . 
A miracle ! A miracle ! he cried , and kneeled down to clean the cod . 
You've been a long time finding us , my son , said Meon . 
Now fish fish for all our lives . 
'The old fellow flung himself quivering like a salmon backward into the boil of the currents round the rocks , and Meon said , We're safe . 
I'll send him to fetch help when this wind drops . 
'I never tasted anything so good as those rock codlings we took from Padda's mouth and half roasted over the fire . 
Between his plunges Padda would hunch up and purr over Meon with the tears running down his face . 
I never knew before that seals could weep for joy as I have wept . 
Surely , said Eddi , with his mouth full , God has made the seal the loveliest of His creatures in the water . 
There I sinned , poor Eddi answered . 
Call him here , and I will ask his pardon . 
God sent him out of the storm to humble me , a fool . 
I won't ask you to enter into fellowships and understandings with any accursed brute , said Meon , rather unkindly . 
Shall we say he was sent to our Bishop as the ravens were sent to your prophet Elijah ? Doubtless that is so , said Eddi . 
I will write it so if I live to get home . 
No no ! I said . 
Let us three poor men kneel and thank God for His mercies . 
'We kneeled , and old Padda shuffled up and thrust his head under Meon's elbows . 
I laid my hand upon it and blessed him . 
And now , my son , I said to Meon , shall I baptize thee ? Not yet , said he . 
Wait till we are well ashore and at home . 
No God in any Heaven shall say that I came to him or left him because I was wet and cold . 
I will send Padda to my people for a boat . 
Is that witchcraft , Eddi ? Why , no . 
Surely Padda will go and pull them to the beach by the skirts of their gowns as he pulled me in Wittering Church to ask me to sing . 
Only then I was afraid , and did not understand , said Eddi . 
Meon's people could not bring a boat across for some hours even so it was ticklish work among the rocks in that tideway . 
'When we were quite rested and re clothed , and his people had been summoned not an hour before Meon offered himself to be baptized . 
'Was Padda baptized too ? Una asked . 
'No , that was only Meon's joke . 
But he sat blinking on his ox hide in the middle of the hall . 
made a little cross in holy water on his wet muzzle , he kissed Eddi's hand . 
A week before Eddi wouldn't have touched him . 
That was a miracle , if you like ! But seriously , I was more glad than I can tell you to get Meon . 
A rare and splendid soul that never looked back never looked back ! The Arch bishop half closed his eyes . 
Our Bishop said it was not fair . 
You needn't shout like that , because you are all Christians now . 
My red war boat's crew will remember how near we all were to death when Padda fetched them over to the Bishop's islet . 
So I believe in the Christian God , and in Wilfrid His Bishop , and in the Church that Wilfrid rules . 
You have been baptized once by the King's orders . 
Go out quietly you'll find a couple of beefs on the beach . 
'It was a joyful day for me . 
I had learned a great deal on that rock where Padda found us . 
Yes yess ! One should deal kindly with all the creatures of God , and gently with their masters . 
He rose , and his gold embroidered sleeves rustled thickly . 
The organ cracked and took deep breaths . 
'Wait a minute , Dan whispered . 
'She's going to do the trumpety one . 
It takes all the wind you can pump . 
It's in Latin , sir . 
'There is no other tongue , the Archbishop answered . 
'It's not a real hymn , Una explained . 
'She does it as a treat after her exercises . 
She isn't a real organist , you know . 
She just comes down here sometimes , from the Albert Hall . 
'Oh , what a miracle of a voice ! said the Archbishop . 
It rang out suddenly from a dark arch of lonely noises every word spoken to the very end 'Dies Irae , dies illa , Solvet saeclum in favilla , Teste David cum Sibylla . 
The Archbishop caught his breath and moved forward . 
The music carried on by itself a while . 
'Now it's calling all the light out of the windows , Una whispered to Dan . 
'I think it's more like a horse neighing in battle , he whispered back . 
The voice continued 'Tuba mirum spargens sonum Per sepulchre regionum . 
Deeper and deeper the organ dived down , but far below its deepest note they heard Puck's voice joining in the last line 'Coget omnes ante thronum . 
As they looked in wonder , for it sounded like the dull jar of one of the very pillars shifting , the little fellow turned and went out through the south door . 
'Now's the sorrowful part , but it's very beautiful . 
Una found herself speaking to the empty chair in front of her . 
'What are you doing that for ? Dan said behind her . 
'You spoke so politely too . 
It's the part you like best , Dan grunted . 
The music had turned soft full of little sounds that chased each other on wings across the broad gentle flood of the main tune . 
But the voice was ten times lovelier than the music . 
'Recordare Jesu pie , Quod sum causa Tuae viae , Ne me perdas illi die ! There was no more . 
They moved out into the centre aisle . 
'That you ? the Lady called as she shut the lid . 
'I thought I heard you , and I played it on purpose . 
'Thank you awfully , said Dan . 
'We hoped you would , so we waited . 
Come on , Una , it's pretty nearly dinner time . 
we're going To find our master tonight . 
This work is none of our wishing We would stay at home if we might But our master is wrecked out fishing , We go to find him tonight . 
For we hold that in all disaster As the Gods Themselves have said A man must stand by his master Till one of the two is dead . 
That is our way of thinking , Now you can do as you will , While we try to save her from sinking , And hold her head to it still . 
Bale her and keep her moving , Or she'll break her back in the trough . 
The waters have risen , The springs are unbound The floods break their prison , And ravin around . 
No rampart withstands 'em , Their fury will last , Till the Sign that commands 'em Sinks low or swings past . 
Through abysses unproven , And gulfs beyond thought , Our portion is woven , Our burden is brought . 
Yet They that prepare it , Whose Nature we share , Make us who must bear it Well able to bear . 
Though terrors o'ertake us We'll not be afraid , No Power can unmake us Save that which has made . 
Nor yet beyond reason Nor hope shall we fall All things have their season , And Mercy crowns all . 
He saw her lamp come into the garden and disappear as she hid it under her cloak . 
coughed in the corner of the herb beds . 
They ran to meet him , and the man said something to them about rooms in their head . 
After a time they understood he was warning them not to catch colds . 
'You've a bit of a cold yourself , haven't you ? said Una , for he ended all his sentences with a consequential cough . 
'Child , the man answered , 'if it hath pleased Heaven to afflict me with an infirmity 'Nay , nay , Puck struck In , 'the maid spoke out of kindness . 
I know that half your cough is but a catch to trick the vulgar and that's a pity . 
There's honesty enough in you , Nick , without rasping and hawking . 
'Good people' the man shrugged his lean shoulders 'the vulgar crowd love not truth unadorned . 
Wherefore we philosophers must needs dress her to catch their eye or ahem ! their ear . 
'And what d'you think of that ? said Puck solemnly to Dan . 
'I don't know , he answered . 
'Ah well ! There have been worse men than Nick Culpeper to take lessons from . 
Now , where can we sit that's not indoors ? 'In the hay mow , next to old Middenboro , Dan suggested . 
'Eh ? Mr Culpeper was stooping over the pale hellebore blooms by the light of Una's lamp . 
'Does Master Middenboro need my poor services , then ? 'Save him , no ! said Puck . 
'He is but a horse next door to an ass , as you'll see presently . 
Come ! Their shadows jumped and slid on the fruit tree walls . 
They filed out of the garden by the snoring pig pound and the crooning hen house , to the shed where Middenboro the old lawn mower pony lives . 
His friendly eyes showed green in the light as they set their lamps down on the chickens' drinking trough outside , and pushed past to the hay mow . 
Mr Culpeper stooped at the door . 
'Mind where you lie , said Dan . 
'This hay's full of hedge brishings . 
'In ! in ! said Puck . 
'You've lain in fouler places than this , Nick . 
Ah ! Let us keep touch with the stars ! He kicked open the top of the half door , and pointed to the clear sky . 
'There be the planets you conjure with ! What does your wisdom make of that wandering and variable star behind those apple boughs ? The children smiled . 
A bicycle that they knew well was being walked down the steep lane . 
'Where ? Mr Culpeper leaned forward quickly . 
'That ? Some countryman's lantern . 
'Wrong , Nick , said Puck . 
''Tis a singular bright star in Virgo , declining towards the house of Aquarius the water carrier , who hath lately been afflicted by Gemini . 
Aren't I right , Una ? Mr Culpeper snorted contemptuously . 
It's the village nurse going down to the Mill about some fresh twins that came there last week . 
Nurse , Una called , as the light stopped on the flat , 'when can I see the Morris twins ? And how are they ? 'Next Sunday , perhaps . 
Doing beautifully , the Nurse called back , and with a ping ping ping of the bell brushed round the corner . 
'Her uncle's a vetinary surgeon near Banbury , Una explained , and if you ring her bell at night , it rings right beside her bed not downstairs at all . 
Then she 'umps up she always keeps a pair of dry boots in the fender , you know and goes anywhere she's wanted . 
We help her bicycle through gaps sometimes . 
Most of her babies do beautifully . 
She told us so herself . 
'I doubt not , then , that she reads in my books , said Mr Culpeper quietly . 
'Twins at the Mill ! he muttered half aloud . 
And again He sayeth , Return , ye children of men . 
'Are you a doctor or a rector ? Una asked , and Puck with a shout turned head over heels in the hay . 
But Mr Culpeper was quite serious . 
He told them that he was a physician astrologer a doctor who knew all about the stars as well as all about herbs for medicine . 
He said that the sun , the moon , and five Planets , called Jupiter , Mars , Mercury , Saturn , and Venus , governed everybody and everything in the world . 
If you knew their likes and dislikes , he said , you could make them cure your patient and hurt your enemy , and find out the secret causes of things . 
He talked of these five Planets as though they belonged to him , or as though he were playing long games against them . 
A rat ran between Middenboro's feet , and the old pony stamped . 
'Mid hates rats , said Dan , and passed him over a lock of hay . 
'Divine Astrology tells us , said Mr Culpeper . 
'The horse , being a martial beast that beareth man to battle , belongs naturally to the red planet Mars the Lord of War . 
I would show you him , but he's too near his setting . 
Rats and mice , doing their businesses by night , come under the dominion of our Lady the Moon . 
Which antipathy their creatures do inherit . 
They felt him shake with laughter , and Mr Culpeper sat up stiffly . 
He swept his hand across the sky . 
'Yet there are those , he went on sourly , 'who have years without knowledge . 
'No fool like an old fool . 
Mr Culpeper wrapped his cloak round him and sat still while the children stared at the Great Bear on the hilltop . 
'Give him time , Puck whispered behind his hand . 
'He turns like a timber tug all of a piece . 
'Ahem ! Mr Culpeper said suddenly . 
'I'll prove it to you . 
, the plague was very hot all around us . 
I saw it at close hands . 
He who says I am ignorant of the plague , for example , is altogether beside the bridge . 
'We grant it , said Puck solemnly . 
'But why talk of the plague this rare night ? 'To prove my argument . 
This Oxfordshire plague , good people , being generated among rivers and ditches , was of a werish , watery nature . 
Therefore it was curable by drenching the patient in cold water , and laying him in wet cloths or at least , so I cured some of them . 
It bears on what shall come after . 
'Mark also , Nick , said Puck , that we are not your College of Physicians , but only a lad and a lass and a poor lubberkin . 
He flung me off into a cowshed , much like this here , to die , as I supposed but one of their priests crept in by night and dressed my wound . 
He was a Sussex man like myself . 
'Who was that ? said Puck suddenly . 
'Zack Tutshom ? 'No , Jack Marget , said Mr Culpeper . 
'Jack Marget of New College ? The little merry man that stammered so ? Why a plague was stuttering Jack at Oxford then ? said Puck . 
'He had come out of Sussex in hope of being made a Bishop when the King should have conquered the rebels , as he styled us Parliament men . 
His College had lent the King some monies too , which they never got again , no more than simple Jack got his bishopric . 
When we met he had had a bitter bellyful of King's promises , and wished to return to his wife and babes . 
So Blagge , I say , thrust us both out , with many vile words , for a pair of pestilent , prating , pragmatical rascals . 
'Ha ! Called you pragmatical , Nick ? Puck started up . 
'High time Oliver came to purge the land ! How did you and honest Jack fare next ? 'We were in some sort constrained to each other's company . 
He had comforted me in my distress . 
I could not have done less and I remembered that I had a cousin at Great Wigsell , near by Jack's parish . 
Mr Culpeper tapped his thin chest . 
'I dressed a whitlow on his thumb . 
'Not to trouble you with impertinences , we fetched over against Jack Marget's parish in a storm of rain about the day's end . 
But I saw it was the plague , and not the beginnings of it neither . 
They had set out the plague stone , and the man's head lay on it . 
'What's a plague stone ? Dan whispered . 
Those that would sell come later what will a man not do for gain ? snatch the money forth , and leave in exchange such goods as their conscience reckons fair value . 
I saw a silver groat in the water , and the man's list of what he would buy was rain pulped in his wet hand . 
My wife ! Oh , my wife and babes ! says Jack of a sudden , and makes uphill I with him . 
'A woman peers out from behind a barn , crying out that the village is stricken with the plague , and that for our lives' sake we must avoid it . 
Must I avoid thee ? and she leaps at him and says the babes are safe . 
'When he had thanked God , even to tears , he tells me this was not the welcome he had intended , and presses me to flee the place while I was clean . 
Nay ! The Lord do so to me and more also if I desert thee now , I said . 
These affairs are , under God's leave , in some fashion my strength . 
Oh , sir , she says , are you a physician ? We have none . 
Then , good people , said I , I must e'en justify myself to you by my works . 
Look look ye , stammers Jack , I took you all this time for a crazy Roundhead preacher . 
He laughs , and she , and then I all three together in the rain are overtook by an unreasonable gust or clap of laughter , which none the less eased us . 
We call it in medicine the Hysterical Passion . 
So I went home with 'em . 
'Why did you not go on to your cousin at Great Wigsell , Nick ? Puck suggested . 
''tis barely seven mile up the road . 
'But the plague was here , Mr Culpeper answered , and pointed up the hill . 
'What else could I have done ? 'What were the parson's children called ? said Una . 
'Elizabeth , Alison , Stephen , and Charles a babe . 
I scarce saw them at first , for I separated to live with their father in a cart lodge . 
The mother we put forced into the house with her babes . 
'And now , good people , give me leave to be particular in this case . 
, is cleansing and purifying in the highest degree . 
Mark here , that all forges and smith shops belong to Mars , even as corn and meat and wine shops acknowledge Venus for their mistress . 
There was no plague in the smithy at Munday's Lane 'Munday's Lane ? You mean our village ? I thought so when you talked about the two Mills , cried Dan . 
'Where did we put the plague stone ? I'd like to have seen it . 
'Then look at it now , said Puck , and pointed to the chickens' drinking trough where they had set their bicycle lamps . 
'That ? said Dan and Una , and stared , and stared , and stared . 
Mr Culpeper made impatient noises in his throat and went on . 
'I am at these pains to be particular , good people , because I would have you follow , so far as you may , the operations of my mind . 
This plague of ours here , for all that it flourished along watercourses every soul at both Mills died of it , could not be so handled . 
Which brought me to a stand . 
Ahem ! 'And your sick people in the meantime ? 'Puck demanded . 
'We persuaded them on the north side of the street to lie out in Hitheram's field . 
Where the plague had taken one , or at most two , in a house , folk would not shift for fear of thieves in their absence . 
They cast away their lives to die among their goods . 
'Human nature , said Puck . 
'I've seen it time and again . 
But I confess , good people , I could not in any sort master the sickness , or come at a glimmer of its nature or governance . 
'At night ? Were you not horribly frightened ? said Puck . 
'I dared to hope that the God who hath made man so nobly curious to search out His mysteries might not destroy a devout seeker . 
Presently his mate or companion came out , laid him down beside there , and in like fashion died too . 
Later an hour or less to midnight a third rat did e'en the same always choosing the moonlight to die in . 
Yet these three rats had been stricken dead in very moonlight . 
I straddled the roof to see better . 
'Jack Marget came up street going to comfort our sick in Hitheram's field . 
A tile slipped under my foot . 
My meaning was naturally the planet Mars . 
Pray to Him then , says he . 
I forgot Him too this summer . 
'He meant God , whom he always bitterly accused himself of having forgotten up in Oxfordshire , among the King's men . 
He was at his strength's end more from melancholy than any just cause . 
I have seen this before among priests and overcheerful men . 
I drenched him then and there with a half cup of waters , which I do not say cure the plague , but are excellent against heaviness of the spirits . 
'What were they ? said Dan . 
'White brandy rectified , camphor , cardamoms , ginger , two sorts of pepper , and aniseed . 
'Waters you call 'em ! 'Jack coughed on it valiantly , and went downhill with me . 
I was for the Lower Mill in the valley , to note the aspect of the Heavens . 
My mind had already shadowed forth the reason , if not the remedy , for our troubles , but I would not impart it to the vulgar till I was satisfied . 
That practice may be perfect , judgment ought to be sound , and to make judgment sound is required an exquisite knowledge . 
Ahem ! I left Jack and his lantern among the sick in Hitheram's field . 
He still maintained the prayers of the so called Church , which were rightly forbidden by Cromwell . 
'You should have told your cousin at Wigsell , said Puck , 'and Jack would have been fined for it , and you'd have had half the money . 
How did you come so to fail in your duty , Nick ? Mr Culpeper laughed his only laugh that evening and the children jumped at the loud neigh of it . 
'We were not fearful of men's judgment in those days , he answered . 
'Now mark me closely , good people , for what follows will be to you , though not to me , remarkable . 
When I reached the empty Mill , old Saturn , low down in the House of the Fishes , threatened the Sun's rising place . 
I looked abroad upon the high Heavens , and I prayed the Maker of 'em for guidance . 
Now Mars sparkingly withdrew himself below the sky . 
, and broke all about in fire . 
, and calling myself all the asses' heads in the world ! 'Twas plain enough now ! 'What was plain ? said Una . 
'The true cause and cure of the plague . 
Mars , good fellow , had fought for us to the uttermost . 
I had known Mars lean half across Heaven to deal our Lady the Moon some shrewd blow from under his shield , but I had never before seen his strength displayed so effectual . 
'I don't understand a bit . 
Do you mean Mars killed the rats because he hated the Moon ? said Una . 
'That is as plain as the pikestaff with which Blagge's men pushed me forth , 'Mr Culpeper answered . 
But was it like , think you , that he'd come down and rat catch in general for lazy , ungrateful mankind ? That were working a willing horse to death . 
And thus , having shown you a taste of my power , good people , adieu . 
'Did Mars really say all that ? Una whispered . 
'Yes , and twice so much as that to any one who had ears to hear . 
Briefly , he enlightened me that the plague was spread by the creatures of the Moon . 
The Moon , our Lady of ill aspect , was the offender . 
My own poor wits showed me that I , Nick Culpeper , had the people in my charge , God's good providence aiding me , and no time to lose neither . 
'I posted up the hill , and broke into Hitheram's field amongst 'em all at prayers . 
Eureka , good people ! I cried , and cast down a dead mill rat which I'd found . 
Here's your true enemy , revealed at last by the stars . 
Nay , but I'm praying , says Jack . 
His face was as white as washed silver . 
There's a time for everything under the sun , says I. If you would stay the plague , take and kill your rats . 
Oh , mad , stark mad ! says he , and wrings his hands . 
'A fellow lay in the ditch beside him , who bellows that he'd as soon die mad hunting rats as be preached to death on a cold fallow . 
They laughed round him at this , but Jack Marget falls on his knees , and very presumptuously petitions that he may be appointed to die to save the rest of his people . 
This was enough to thrust 'em back into their melancholy . 
You are an unfaithful shepherd , jack , I says . 
and kill a rat if you die before sunrise . 
Truly there is a time for everything and the physician must work with it ahem ! or miss his cure . 
To be brief with you , I persuaded 'em , sick or sound , to have at the whole generation of rats throughout the village . 
And there's a reason for all things too , though the wise physician need not blab 'em all . 
Imprimis , or firstly , the mere sport of it , which lasted ten days , drew 'em most markedly out of their melancholy . 
I'd defy sorrowful job himself to lament or scratch while he's routing rats from a rick . 
Thirdly , when we came to burn the bodies of the rats , I sprinkled sulphur on the faggots , whereby the onlookers were as handsomely suffumigated . 
This I could not have compassed if I had made it a mere physician's business they'd have thought it some conjuration . 
burned the corn handler's shop to the ground . 
Will Noakes the saddler dropped his lantern on a truss of straw while he was rat hunting there . 
'Had ye given Will any of that gentle cordial of yours , Nick , by any chance ? said Puck . 
'A glass or two glasses not more . 
, and rammed it with iron crowbars into the rat runs and buries , and beneath all the house floors . 
The Creatures of the Moon hate all that Mars hath used for his own clean ends . 
For example rats bite not iron . 
'And how did poor stuttering Jack endure it ? said Puck . 
'He sweated out his melancholy through his skin , and catched a loose cough , which I cured with electuaries , according to art . 
from the morning of the day that Mars enlightened me by the Lower Mill . 
He coughed almost trumpeted triumphantly . 
'It is proved , he jerked out . 
'For my own part I hold that a simple soul 'Mine ? Simple , forsooth ? said Mr Culpeper . 
'A very simple soul , a high courage tempered with sound and stubborn conceit , is stronger than all the stars in their courses . 
So I confess truly that you saved the village , Nick . 
'I stubborn ? I stiff necked ? I ascribed all my poor success , under God's good providence , to Divine Astrology . 
Not to me the glory ! You talk as that dear weeping ass Jack Marget preached before I went back to my work in Red Lion House , Spitalfields . 
'Oh ! Stammering Jack preached , did he ? They say he loses his stammer in the pulpit . 
'And his wits with it . 
He delivered a most idolatrous discourse when the plague was stayed . 
He took for his text The wise man that delivered the city . 
I could have given him a better , such as There is a time for 'But what made you go to church to hear him ? Puck interrupted . 
'Wail Attersole was your lawfully appointed preacher , and a dull dog he was ! Mr Culpeper wriggled uneasily . 
'The vulgar , said he , 'the old crones and ahem ! the children , Alison and the others , they dragged me to the House of Rimmon by the hand . 
'You should have told the magistrates , Nick , and had Jack fined . 
Again , why did you neglect your plain duty ? 'Because because I was kneeling , and praying , and weeping with the rest of 'em at the Altar rails . 
In medicine this is called the Hysterical Passion . 
It may be it may be . 
'That's as may be , said Puck . 
They heard him turn the hay . 
'Why , your hay is half hedge brishings , he said . 
'You don't expect a horse to thrive on oak and ash and thorn leaves , do you ? Ping ping ping went the bicycle bell round the corner . 
Nurse was coming back from the mill . 
'Is it all right ? Una called . 
'All quite right , Nurse called back . 
'They're to be christened next Sunday . 
'What ? What ? They both leaned forward across the half door . 
it could not have been properly fastened , for it opened , and tilted them out with hay and leaves sticking all over them . 
'Come on ! We must get those two twins' names , said Una , and they charged uphill shouting over the hedge , till Nurse slowed up and told them . 
When they returned , old Middenboro had got out of his stall , and they spent a lively ten minutes chasing him in again by starlight . 
Vervain , Dittany , Call me to you Cowslip , Melilot , Rose of the Sun . 
Anything green that grew out of the mould Was an excellent herb to our fathers of old . 
Wonderful tales had our fathers of old Wonderful tales of the herbs and the stars The Sun was Lord of the Marigold , Basil and Rocket belonged to Mars . 
Who but Venus should govern the Rose ? Who but Jupiter own the Oak ? Simply and gravely the facts are told In the wonderful books of our fathers of old . 
Wonderful little , when all is said , Wonderful little our fathers knew . 
Bleed and blister as much as you will , Blister and bleed him as oft as you please . 
Whence enormous and manifold Errors were made by our fathers of old . 
Not too learned , but nobly bold , Into the fight went our fathers of old . 
And it's worth while seeking him half your days If you find him before the other . 
Nine hundred and ninety nine depend on what the world sees in you , But the Thousandth Man will stand your friend With the whole round world agin you . 
'Tis neither promise nor prayer nor show Will settle the finding for 'ee . 
Nine hundred and ninety nine of 'em go By your looks or your acts or your glory . 
But if he finds you and you find him , The rest of the world don't matter For the Thousandth Man will sink or swim With you in any water . 
You can use his purse with no more shame Than he uses yours for his spendings And laugh and mention it just the same As though there had been no lendings . 
He stopped by the wood lump at the back gate to take off the brakes . 
'HI ! Una shouted from the top of the wood lump , where they had been watching the lane . 
'What are you doing ? Why weren't we told ? 'They've just sent for me , Cattiwow answered . 
'There's a middlin' big log stacked in the dirt at Rabbit Shaw , and' he flicked his whip back along the line 'so they've sent for us all . 
Dan and Una threw themselves off the wood lump almost under black Sailor's nose . 
Cattiwow never let them ride the big beam that makes the body of the timber tug , but they hung on behind while their teeth thuttered . 
The Wood road beyond the brook climbs at once into the woods , and you see all the horses' backs rising , one above another , like moving stairs . 
Cattiwow strode ahead in his sackcloth woodman's petticoat , belted at the waist with a leather strap and when he turned and grinned , his red lips showed under his sackcloth coloured beard . 
His cap was sackcloth too , with a flap behind , to keep twigs and bark out of his neck . 
At the top of Rabbit Shaw half a dozen men and a team of horses stood round a forty foot oak log in a muddy hollow . 
The ground about was poached and stoached with sliding hoofmarks , and a wave of dirt was driven up in front of the butt . 
'What did you want to bury her for this way ? said Cattiwow . 
He took his broad axe and went up the log tapping it . 
'She's sticked fast , said 'Bunny' Lewknor , who managed the other team . 
Cattiwow unfastened the five wise horses from the tug . 
They cocked their ears forward , looked , and shook themselves . 
'I believe Sailor knows , Dan whispered to Una . 
'He do , said a man behind them . 
'Don't he justabout know ? he said shyly , and shifted from one foot to the other . 
What Cattiwow can't get out of the woods must have roots growing to her . 
Dan had heard old Hobden say this a few days before . 
At that minute Puck pranced up , picking his way through the pools of black water in the ling . 
'Look out ! cried Una , jumping forward . 
'He'll see you , Puck ! 'Me and Mus' Robin are pretty middlin' well acquainted , the man answered with a smile that made them forget all about walruses . 
'This is Simon Cheyneys , Puck began , and cleared his throat . 
'Shipbuilder of Rye Port burgess of the said town , and the only 'Oh , look ! Look ye ! That's a knowing one , said the man . 
Cattiwow had fastened his team to the thin end of the log , and was moving them about with his whip till they stood at right angles to it , heading downhill . 
The horses took the strain , beginning with Sailor next the log , like a tug of war team , and dropped almost to their knees . 
The log shifted a nail's breadth in the clinging dirt , with the noise of a giant's kiss . 
'You're getting her ! Simon Cheyneys slapped his knee . 
'Hing on ! Hing on , lads , or she'll master ye ! Ah ! Sailor's left hind hoof had slipped on a heather tuft . 
One of the men whipped off his sack apron and spread it down . 
They saw Sailor feel for it , and recover . 
Still the log hung , and the team grunted in despair . 
'Hai ! shouted Cattiwow , and brought his dreadful whip twice across Sailor's loins with the crack of a shot gun . 
The horse almost screamed as he pulled that extra last ounce which he did not know was in him . 
The thin end of the log left the dirt and rasped on dry gravel . 
The butt ground round like a buffalo in his wallow . 
Quick as an axe cut , Lewknor snapped on his five horses , and sliding , trampling , jingling , and snorting , they had the whole thing out on the heather . 
'Dat's the very first time I've knowed you lay into Sailor to hurt him , said Lewknor . 
'It is , said Cattiwow , and passed his hand over the two wheals . 
'But I'd ha' laid my own brother open at that pinch . 
Now we'll twitch her down the hill a piece she lies just about right and get her home by the low road . 
My team'll do it , Bunny you bring the tug along . 
Mind out ! He spoke to the horses , who tightened the chains . 
The great log half rolled over , and slowly drew itself out of sight downhill , followed by the wood gang and the timber tug . 
'Ye heard him ? Simon Cheyneys asked . 
'He cherished his horse , but he'd ha' laid him open in that pinch . 
'Not for his own advantage , said Puck quickly . 
''Twas only to shift the log . 
'I reckon every man born of woman has his log to shift in the world if so be you're hintin' at any o' Frankie's doings . 
He never hit beyond reason or without reason , said Simon . 
'I never said a word against Frankie , Puck retorted , with a wink at the children . 
'Yes , and the first which set out to poison him Frankie on the high seas Simon's angry face changed to a sheepish grin . 
He waggled his immense hands , but Puck stood off and laughed mercilessly . 
'But let me tell you , Mus' Robin , 'he pleaded . 
Look , Dan ! Look , Una ! Puck's straight brown finger levelled like an arrow . 
'There's the only man that ever tried to poison Sir Francis Drake ! 'Oh , Mus' Robin ! 'Tidn't fair . 
You've the 'vantage of us all in your upbringin's by hundreds o' years . 
Stands to nature you know all the tales against every one . 
He turned his soft eyes so helplessly on Una that she cried , 'Stop ragging him , Puck ! You know he didn't really . 
But why are you so sure , little maid ? 'Because because he doesn't look like it , said Una stoutly . 
'I thank you , said Simon to Una . 
'I I was always trustable like with children if you let me alone , you double handful o' mischief . 
He pretended to heave up his axe on Puck and then his shyness overtook him afresh . 
'Where did you know Sir Francis Drake ? said Dan , not liking being called a child . 
'At Rye Port , to be sure , said Simon , and seeing Dan's bewilderment , repeated it . 
'Yes , but look here , 'said Dan . 
Drake he was a Devon man . 
And ruled the Devon seas , Una went on . 
'That's what I was thinking if you don't mind . 
Simon Cheyneys seemed to mind very much indeed , for he swelled in silence while Puck laughed . 
'Hutt ! he burst out at last , 'I've heard that talk too . 
If you listen to them West Country folk , you'll listen to a pack o' lies . 
Brought up at sea , you might say , before he could walk on land nigh Chatham in Kent . 
And ain't Kent back door to Sussex ? And don't that make Frankie Sussex ? O' course it do . 
Devon man ! Bah ! Those West Country boats they're always fishin' in other folks' water . 
'I beg your pardon , said Dan . 
'No call to be sorry . 
I met Frankie at Rye Port when my Uncle , that was the shipbuilder there , pushed me off his wharf edge on to Frankie's ship . 
Frankie had put in from Chatham with his rudder splutted , and a man's arm Moon's that 'ud be broken at the tiller . 
Take this boy aboard an' drown him , says my Uncle , and I'll mend your rudder piece for love . 
'What did your Uncle want you drowned for ? 'said Una . 
'That was only his fashion of say so , same as Mus' Robin . 
I'd a foolishness in my head that ships could be builded out of iron . 
'What was the fetchin' trade ? Dan interrupted . 
'Fetchin' poor Flemishers and Dutchmen out o' the Low Countries into England . 
His master wouldn't never touch it while he lived , but he left his ship to Frankie when he died , and Frankie turned her into this fetchin' trade . 
'I had nigh a year at it , an' we must have fetched off oh , a hundred pore folk , I reckon . 
Outrageous bold , too , Frankie growed to be . 
Once we was as near as nothin' nipped by a tall ship off Tergoes Sands in a snowstorm . 
She had the wind of us , and spooned straight before it , shootin' all bow guns . 
Frankie fled inshore smack for the beach , till he was atop of the first breakers . 
When we could see , the Spanisher was laid flat along in the breakers with the snows whitening on his wet belly . 
He thought he could go where Frankie went . 
'What happened to the crew ? said Una . 
'We didn't stop , Simon answered . 
'There was a very liddle new baby in our hold , and the mother she wanted to get to some dry bed middlin' quick . 
We runned into Dover , and said nothing . 
'Was Sir Francis Drake very much pleased ? 'Heart alive , maid , he'd no head to his name in those days . 
He was just a outrageous , valiant , crop haired , tutt mouthed boy , roarin' up an' down the narrer seas , with his beard not yet quilted out . 
'Then why did you try to poison him ? Una asked wickedly , and Simon hung his head like a shy child . 
'Oh , that was when he set me to make a pudden , for because our cook was hurted . 
I done my uttermost , but she all fetched adrift like in the bag , an' the more I biled the bits of her , the less she favoured any fashion o' pudden . 
Nex' time you bring me anything , says Frankie , you bring me cannon shot an' I'll know what I'm getting . 
But as for poisonin' He stopped , the children laughed so . 
'Of course you didn't , said Una . 
'Oh , Simon , we do like you ! 'I was always likeable with children . 
His smile crinkled up through the hair round his eyes . 
'Simple Simon they used to call me through our yard gates . 
'Did Sir Francis mock you ? Dan asked . 
Laugh he did he was always laughing but not so as to hurt a feather . 
I loved 'en before England knew 'en , or Queen Bess she broke his heart . 
'But he hadn't really done anything when you knew him , had he ? Una insisted . 
'Armadas and those things , I mean . 
Simon pointed to the scars and scrapes left by Cattiwow's great log . 
'You tell me that that good ship's timber never done nothing against winds and weathers since her up springing , and I'll confess ye that young Frankie never done nothing neither . 
An' what was his tools ? A coaster boat a liddle box o' walty plankin' an' some few fathom feeble rope held together an' made able by him sole . 
He drawed our spirits up In our bodies same as a chimney towel draws a fire . 
'Twas in him , and it comed out all times and shapes . 
'I wonder did he ever 'magine what he was going to be ? Tell himself stories about it ? said Dan with a flush . 
We mostly do even when we're grown . 
But bein' Frankie , he took good care to find out beforehand what his fortune might be . 
Had I rightly ought to tell 'em this piece ? Simon turned to Puck , who nodded . 
'My Mother , she was just a fair woman , but my Aunt , her sister , she had gifts by inheritance laid up in her , Simon began . 
'Oh , that'll never do , cried Puck , for the children stared blankly . 
'Do you remember what Robin promised to the Widow Whitgift so long as her blood and get lasted ? See 'Dymchurch Flit' in PUCK OF POOK'S HILL . 
There was always to be one of them that could see farther through a millstone than most , Dan answered promptly . 
'Well , Simon's Aunt's mother , said Puck slowly , 'married the Widow's blind son on the Marsh , and Simon's Aunt was the one chosen to see farthest through millstones . 
Do you understand ? 'That was what I was gettin' at , said Simon , 'but you're so desperate quick . 
My Aunt she knew what was comin' to people . 
Oh , you'll be twice wed , and die childless , she says , and pushes his hand away . 
That's the woman's part , he says . 
What'll come to me to me ? an' he thrusts it back under her nose . 
Gold gold , past belief or counting , she says . 
Let go o' me , lad . 
Sink the gold ! he says . 
What'll I do , mother ? He coaxed her like no woman could well withstand . 
I've seen him with 'em even when they were sea sick . 
If you will have it , she says at last , you shall have it . 
You'll do a many things , and eating and drinking with a dead man beyond the world's end will be the least of them . 
So ships are taken through the Canal , and the road round Cape Horn which Sir Francis opened is very little used . 
And if I'm not ? he says . 
Why , then , she says , Sim's iron ships will be sailing on dry land . 
Now ha' done with this foolishness . 
My Sorrow ! says my Aunt d'ye see that ? The great world lying in his hand , liddle and round like a apple . 
Why , 'tis one you gived him , I says . 
To be sure , she says . 
'Tis just a apple , and she went ashore with her hand to her head . 
It always hurted her to show her gifts . 
Him and me puzzled over that talk plenty . 
It sticked in his mind quite extravagant . 
Mus' Stenning he runs for Shoreham , but Frankie held on a piece , knowin' that Mus Stenning was jealous of our good trade . 
Over by Dunkirk a great gor bellied Spanisher , with the Cross on his sails , came rampin' at us . 
We left him all they bare seas to conquest in . 
Looks like this road was going to be shut pretty soon , says Frankie , humourin' her at the tiller . 
I'll have to open that other one your Aunt foretold of . 
The Spanisher's crowdin' down on us middlin' quick , I says . 
No odds , says Frankie , he'll have the inshore tide against him . 
Did your Aunt say I was to be quiet in my grave for ever ? Till my iron ships sailed dry land , I says . 
That's foolishness , he says . 
Who cares where Frankie Drake makes a hole in the water now or twenty years from now ? 'The Spanisher kept muckin' on more and more canvas . 
He's feelin' the tide , was all he says . 
If he was among Tergoes Sands with this wind , we'd be picking his bones proper . 
I'd give my heart to have all their tall ships there some night before a north gale , and me to windward . 
There'd be gold in My hands then . 
Do you ever feel minded to jump overside and be done with everything ? he asks after a while . 
No. What water comes aboard is too wet as 'tis , I says . 
I told you , says he , never looking back . 
He'll give us the Pope's Blessing as he swings . 
Come down off that rail . 
There's no knowin' where stray shots may hit . 
So I came down off the rail , and leaned against it , and the Spanisher he ruffled round in the wind , and his port lids opened all red inside . 
Now what'll happen to my road if they don't let me lie quiet in my grave ? he says . 
Does your Aunt mean there's two roads to be found and kept open or what does she mean ? I don't like that talk about t'other road . 
D'you believe in your iron ships , Sim ? 'He knowed I did , so I only nodded , and he nodded back again . 
Anybody but me 'ud call you a fool , Sim , he says . 
Here comes the Pope's Blessing ! 'The Spanisher gave us his broadside as he went about . 
They all fell short except one that smack smooth hit the rail behind my back , an' I felt most won'erful cold . 
Be you hit anywhere to signify ? he says . 
O Lord , Mus' Drake , I says , my legs won't move , and that was the last I spoke for months . 
'Why ? What had happened ? cried Dan and Una together . 
'The rail had jarred me in here like . 
Simon reached behind him clumsily . 
'From my shoulders down I didn't act no shape . 
Frankie carried me piggyback to my Aunt's house , and I lay bed rid and tongue tied while she rubbed me day and night , month in and month out . 
She had faith in rubbing with the hands . 
P'raps she put some of her gifts into it , too . 
Last of all , something loosed itself in my pore back , and lo ! I was whole restored again , but kitten feeble . 
Where's Frankie ? I says , thinking I'd been a longish while abed . 
Down wind amongst the Dons months ago , says my Aunt . 
When can I go after 'en ? I says . 
Your duty's to your town and trade now , says she . 
Your Uncle he died last Michaelmas and he've left you and me the yard . 
So no more iron ships , mind ye . 
I lay on ye to do so . 
'That's why I've never teched iron since that day not to build a toy ship of . 
I've never even drawed a draft of one for my pleasure of evenings . 
Simon smiled down on them all . 
'Whitgift blood is terrible resolute on the she side , 'said Puck . 
'Didn't You ever see Sir Francis Drake again ? 'Dan asked . 
'With one thing and another , and my being made a burgess of Rye , I never clapped eyes on him for the next twenty years . 
Oh , I had the news of his mighty doings the world over . 
They was the very same bold , cunning shifts and passes he'd worked with beforetimes off they Dutch sands , but , naturally , folk took more note of them . 
When Queen Bess made him knight , he sent my Aunt a dried orange stuffed with spiceries to smell to . 
She cried outrageous on it . 
She blamed herself for her foretellings , having set him on his won'erful road but I reckon he'd ha' gone that way all withstanding . 
Curious how close she foretelled it ! The world in his hand like an apple , an' he burying his best friend , Mus' Doughty 'Never mind for Mus' Doughty , Puck interrupted . 
'Tell us where you met Sir Francis next . 
'Oh , ha ! That was the year I was made a burgess of Rye the same year which King Philip sent his ships to take England without Frankie's leave . 
'The Armada ! said Dan contentedly . 
'I was hoping that would come . 
'I knowed Frankie would never let 'em smell London smoke , but plenty good men in Rye was two three minded about the upshot . 
'Twas the noise of the gun fire tarrified us . 
The wind favoured it our way from off behind the Isle of Wight . 
It made a mutter like , which growed and growed , and by the end of a week women was shruckin' in the streets . 
Then they come slidderin' past Fairlight in a great smoky pat vambrished with red gun fire , and our ships flyin' forth and duckin' in again . 
The smoke pat sliddered over to the French shore , so I knowed Frankie was edgin' the Spanishers toward they Dutch sands where he was master . 
I says to my Aunt , The smoke's thinnin' out . 
I lay Frankie's just about scrapin' his hold for a few last rounds shot . 
'Tis time for me to go . 
Never in them clothes , she says . 
Do on the doublet I bought you to be made burgess in , and don't you shame this day . 
'So I mucked it on , and my chain , and my stiffed Dutch breeches and all . 
I be comin' , too , she says from her chamber , and forth she come pavisandin' like a peacock stuff , ruff , stomacher and all . 
She was a notable woman . 
'But how did you go ? You haven't told us , said Una . 
'In my own ship but half share was my Aunt's . 
In the ANTONY OF RYE , to be sure and not empty handed . 
I'd been loadin' her for three days with the pick of our yard . 
What else could I ha' done ? I knowed what he'd need most after a week's such work . 
I'm a shipbuilder , little maid . 
'We'd a fair slant o' wind off Dungeness , and we crept on till it fell light airs and puffed out . 
The Spanishers was all in a huddle over by Calais , and our ships was strawed about mending 'emselves like dogs lickin' bites . 
Now and then a Spanisher would fire from a low port , and the ball 'ud troll across the flat swells , but both sides was finished fightin' for that tide . 
'The first ship we foreslowed on , her breastworks was crushed in , an' men was shorin' 'em up . 
The next was a black pinnace , his pumps clackin' middling quick , and he said nothing . 
But the third , mending shot holes , he spoke out plenty . 
I asked him where Mus' Drake might be , and a shiny suited man on the poop looked down into us , and saw what we carried . 
Lay alongside you ! he says . 
'Tis for Mus' Drake , I says , keeping away lest his size should lee the wind out of my sails . 
Hi ! Ho ! Hither ! We're Lord High Admiral of England ! Come alongside , or we'll hang ye , he says . 
''Twas none of my affairs who he was if he wasn't Frankie , and while he talked so hot I slipped behind a green painted ship with her top sides splintered . 
We was all in the middest of 'em then . 
Hi ! Hoi ! the green ship says . 
Come alongside , honest man , and I'll buy your load . 
I'm Fenner that fought the seven Portugals clean out of shot or bullets . 
Ay , but I don't , I says , and I slacked nothing . 
Seein' I was for goin' on , he hails a Bridport hoy beyond us and shouts , George ! Oh , George ! Wing that duck . 
He's fat ! An' true as we're all here , that squatty Bridport boat rounds to acrost our bows , intendin' to stop us by means o' shooting . 
'my Aunt looks over our rail . 
George , she says , you finish with your enemies afore you begin on your friends . 
'Him that was laying the liddle swivel gun at us sweeps off his hat an' calls her Queen Bess , and asks if she was selling liquor to pore dry sailors . 
My Aunt answered him quite a piece . 
She was a notable woman . 
We hooked on to a lower port and hung . 
Oh , Mus' Drake ! Mus' Drake ! I calls up . 
'He stood on the great anchor cathead , his shirt open to the middle , and his face shining like the sun . 
Why , Sim ! he says . 
just like that after twenty year ! Sim , he says , what brings you ? Pudden , I says , not knowing whether to laugh or cry . 
You told me to bring cannon shot next time , an' I've brought 'em . 
He ripped out a fathom and a half o' brimstone Spanish , and he swung down on our rail , and he kissed me before all his fine young captains . 
His men was swarming out of the lower ports ready to unload us . 
When he saw how I'd considered all his likely wants , he kissed me again . 
Here's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother ! he says . 
Mistress , he says to my Aunt , all you foretold on me was true . 
I've opened that road from the East to the West , and I've buried my heart beside it . 
I know , she says . 
That's why I be come . 
But ye never foretold this he points to both they great fleets . 
This don't seem to me to make much odds compared to what happens to a man , she says . 
Do it ? Certain sure a man forgets to remember when he's proper mucked up with work . 
Sim , he says to me , we must shift every living Spanisher round Dunkirk corner on to our Dutch sands before morning . 
The wind'll come out of the North after this calm same as it used and then they're our meat . 
Amen , says I. I've brought you what I could scutchel up of odds and ends . 
Be you hit anywhere to signify ? Oh , our folk'll attend to all that when we've time , he says . 
He turns to talk to my Aunt , while his men flew the stuff out of our hold . 
I think I saw old Moon amongst 'em , but he was too busy to more than nod like . 
Yet the Spanishers was going to prayers with their bells and candles before we'd cleaned out the ANTONY . 
Twenty two ton o' useful stuff I'd fetched him . 
Now , Sim , says my Aunt , no more devouring of Mus' Drake's time . 
He's sending us home in the Bridport hoy . 
I want to speak to them young springalds again . 
But here's our ship all ready and swept , I says . 
Swep' an' garnished , says Frankie . 
I'm going to fill her with devils in the likeness o' pitch and sulphur . 
We must shift the Dons round Dunkirk comer , and if shot can't do it , we'll send down fireships . 
I've given him my share of the ANTONY , says my Aunt . 
What do you reckon to do about yours ? She offered it , said Frankie , laughing . 
She wouldn't have if I'd overheard her , I says because I'd have offered my share first . 
'But Frankie was gentle born , d'ye see , and that sort they never overlook any folks' dues . 
Heart alive , little maid ! I never meaned to make you look sorrowful ! Bunny Lewknor in his sackcloth petticoats burst through the birch scrub wiping his forehead . 
'We've got the stick to rights now ! She've been a whole hatful o' trouble . 
'Cattiwow , what are you going to do with it ? 'said Dan , as they straddled the thin part . 
'She's going down to Rye to make a keel for a Lowestoft fishin' boat , I've heard . 
Hold tight ! Cattiwow cracked his whip , and the great log dipped and tilted , and leaned and dipped again , exactly like a stately ship upon the high seas . 
'Now where did Frankie learn his trade ? For he ran me down with a three reef mains'le . 
Atlantic answered 'Not from me ! You'd better ask the cold North Sea , For he ran me down under all plain canvas . 
The North Sea answered 'He's my man , For he came to me when he began Frankie Drake in an open coaster . 
'I caught him young and I used him sore , So you never shall startle Frankie more , Without capsizing Earth and her waters . 
'I did not favour him at all , I made him pull and I made him haul And stand his trick with the common sailors . 
'I froze him stiff and I fogged him blind , And kicked him home with his road to find By what he could see of a three day snow storm . 
'I learned him his trade o' winter nights , 'Twixt Mardyk Fort and Dunkirk lights On a five knot tide with the forts a firing . 
'Before his beard began to shoot , I showed him the length of the Spaniard's foot And I reckon he clapped the boot on it later . 
I'll give you Bruges and Niewport too , And the ten tall churches that stand between 'em . 
Night and the liquor was in their heads They laughed and talked no bounds , Till they waked the keepers on their beds , And the keepers loosed the hounds . 
They had killed a hart , they had killed a hind , Ready to carry away , When they heard a whimper down the wind And they heard a bloodhound bay . 
They took and ran across the fern , Their crossbows in their hand , Till they met a man with a green lantern That called and bade 'em stand . 
'Oh , what's the roaring in our ears That strikes us well nigh dumb ? 'Oh , that is just how things appears According as they come . 
'What are the stars before our eyes That strike us well nigh blind ? 'Oh , that is just how things arise According as you find . 
'And why's our bed so hard to the bones Excepting where it's cold ? 'Oh , that's because it is precious stones Excepting where 'tis gold . 
'Think it over as you stand For I tell you without fail , If you haven't got into Fairyland You're not in Lewes Gaol . 
All night long they thought of it , And , come the dawn , they saw They'd tumbled into a great old pit , At the bottom of Minepit Shaw . 
And the keepers' hound had followed 'em close And broke her neck in the fall So they picked up their knives and their cross bows And buried the dog . 
But whether the man was a poacher too Or a Pharisee so bold I reckon there's more things told than are true , And more things true than are told . 
The Tree of Justice It was a warm , dark winter day with the Sou' West wind singing through Dallington Forest , and the woods below the Beacon . 
The children set out after dinner to find old Hobden , who had a three months' job in the Rough at the back of Pound's Wood . 
He had promised to get them a dormouse in its nest . 
The bright leaf Still clung to the beech coppice the long chestnut leaves lay orange on the ground , and the rides were speckled with scarlet lipped sprouting acorns . 
The poor little fluffy bodies dangled from the branches some perfectly good , but most of them dried to twisted strips . 
'Three more owls , said Dan , counting . 
'Two stoats , four jays , and a kestrel . 
That's ten since last week . 
'In my time this sort of tree bore heavier fruit . 
Sir Richard Dalyngridge reined up his grey horse , Swallow , in the ride behind them . 
This is the Norman knight they met the year before in PUCK OF POOK'S HILL . 
See 'Young Men at the Manor , 'The Knights of the Joyous Venture , and 'Old Men at Pevensey , in that book . 
'What play do you make ? 'he asked . 
We're looking for old Hobden , 'Dan replied . 
'He promised to get us a sleeper . 
'Sleeper ? A DORMEUSE , do you say ? 'Yes , a dormouse , Sir . 
I passed a woodman on the low grounds . 
The old man was as busy as a beaver . 
Something laughed beneath a thorn , and Puck stole out , his finger on his lip . 
'Along between the spindle trees . 
Ridley has been there this half hour . 
The children followed his point , and saw Ridley the keeper in an old dry ditch , watching Hobden as a cat watches a mouse . 
'Hobden always 'tends to his wires before breakfast . 
He puts his rabbits into the faggots he's allowed to take home . 
He'll tell us about 'em tomorrow . 
'What did you do to them ? said Dan , as they repassed Ridley's terrible tree . 
'That ! Sir Richard jerked his head toward the dangling owls . 
'Not he ! said Puck . 
'There was never enough brute Norman in you to hang a man for taking a buck . 
'I I cannot abide to hear their widows screech . 
He walked as though all the woods belonged to him . 
'I have often told my friends , he went on , 'that Red William the King was not the only Norman found dead in a forest while he hunted . 
'D'you mean William Rufus ? 'said Dan . 
'Yes , said Puck , kicking a clump of red toad stools off a dead log . 
'For example , there was a knight new from Normandy , Sir Richard went on , 'to whom Henry our King granted a manor in Kent near by . 
He chose to hang his forester's son the day before a deer hunt that he gave to pleasure the King . 
'Now when would that be ? said Puck , and scratched an ear thoughtfully . 
'The summer of the year King Henry broke his brother Robert of Normandy at Tenchebrai fight . 
Our ships were even then at Pevensey loading for the war . 
'What happened to the knight ? 'Dan asked . 
'They found him pinned to an ash , three arrows through his leather coat . 
I should have worn mail that day . 
'And did you see him all bloody ? 'Dan continued . 
'Nay , I was with De Aquila at Pevensey , counting horseshoes , and arrow sheaves , and ale barrels into the holds of the ships . 
'Why did the King want to hunt so particularly ? Una demanded . 
'If he had gone straight to France after the Kentish knight was killed , men would have said he feared being slain like the knight . 
Look ! The ride twisted , and came out on the top of Pound's Hill Wood . 
Sir Richard pointed to the swells of beautiful , dappled Dallington , that showed like a woodcock's breast up the valley . 
'Ye know the forest ? said he . 
'You ought to see the bluebells there in Spring ! said Una . 
'I have seen , said Sir Richard , gazing , and stretched out his hand . 
'Hugh's work and mine was first to move the deer gently from all parts into Dallington yonder , and there to hold them till the King came . 
Next , we must choose some three hundred beaters to drive the deer to the stands within bowshot of the King . 
Here was our trouble ! In the mellay of a deer drive a Saxon peasant and a Norman King may come over close to each other . 
The conquered do not love their conquerors all at once . 
So we needed sure men , for whom their village or kindred would answer in life , cattle , and land if any harm come to the King . 
Ye see ? 'If one of the beaters shot the King , said Puck , 'Sir Richard wanted to be able to punish that man's village . 
Then the village would take care to send a good man . 
'So ! So it was . 
, that our folk were half mad with fear before we began . 
It is easier to dig out a badger gone to earth than a Saxon gone dumb sullen . 
And atop of their misery the old rumour waked that Harold the Saxon was alive and would bring them deliverance from us Normans . 
This has happened every autumn since Santlache fight . 
'But King Harold was killed at Hastings , 'said Una . 
'So it was said , and so it was believed by us Normans , but our Saxons always believed he would come again . 
That rumour did not make our work any more easy . 
Sir Richard strode on down the far slope of the wood , where the trees thin out . 
It was fascinating to watch how he managed his long spurs among the lumps of blackened ling . 
'But we did it ! he said . 
'After all , a woman is as good as a man to beat the woods , and the mere word that deer are afoot makes cripples and crones young again . 
De Aquila laughed when Hugh told him over the list of beaters . 
Half were women and many of the rest were clerks Saxon and Norman priests . 
Hugh and I it was no work for hot heads or heavy hands lay with our beaters on the skirts of Dallington to watch both them and the deer . 
When De Aquila's great horn blew we went forward , a line half a league long . 
'Ah ! How ! Ah ! How ! How ah ! Sa how ah ! Puck bellowed without warning , and Swallow bounded forward , ears cocked , and nostrils cracking . 
'Hal lal lal lal la hai ie ! Sir Richard answered in a high clear shout . 
The two voices joined in swooping circles of sound , and a heron rose out of a red osier bed below them , circling as though he kept time to the outcry . 
Swallow quivered and swished his glorious tail . 
They stopped together on the same note . 
A hoarse shout answered them across the bare woods . 
'That's old Hobden , 'said Una . 
It is in his blood , said Puck . 
'Did your beaters cry so , Sir Richard ? 'My faith , they forgot all else . 
They forgot where the King and his people waited to shoot . 
They followed the deer to the very edge of the open till the first flight of wild arrows from the stands flew fair over them . 
So that was smoothed over , and we gave our beaters ale to wash down their anger . 
So , before the next beat , Hugh and I assembled and called the beaters over by name , to steady them . 
The greater part we knew , but among the Netherfield men I saw an old , old man , in the dress of a pilgrim . 
'The Clerk of Netherfield said he was well known by repute for twenty years as a witless man that journeyed without rest to all the shrines of England . 
The old man sits , Saxon fashion , head between fists . 
We Normans rest the chin on the left palm . 
Who answers for him ? said I. If he fails in his duty , who will pay his fine ? Who will pay my fine ? the pilgrim said . 
I am , as I suppose , Rahere's man . 
'He pulled a writing from his scrip , and Hugh , coming up , read it . 
'It set out that the pilgrim was Rahere's man , and that Rahere was the King's jester . 
There was Latin writ at the back . 
What a plague conjuration's here ? said Hugh , turning it over . 
Pum quum sum oc occ . 
They say Rahere is more of a priest than a fool and more of a wizard than either . 
Here's Rahere's name writ , and there's Rahere's red cockscomb mark drawn below for such as cannot read . 
He looked slyly at me . 
Then read it , said I , and show thy learning . 
He was a vain little man , and he gave it us after much mouthing . 
There can be but one King . 
It serves , said Hugh . 
But the day will be long and hot . 
No , I will keep with thee , my kinsman , he answered like a child . 
He was indeed childish through great age . 
came thundering up a woodway . 
, those young Norman fools who shot at you this morn are saying that your beaters cried treason against the King . 
It has come to Harry's long ears , and he bids you give account of it . 
Then Rahere must answer to the King for his man , said I. Keep him by you till I send , and I hastened down . 
'The King was with De Aquila in the Grand Stand above Welansford down in the valley yonder . 
His Court knights and dames lay glittering on the edge of the glade . 
I made my homage , and Henry took it coldly . 
How came your beaters to shout threats against me ? said he . 
The tale has grown , I answered . 
One old witless man cried out , ''Ware Red William's arrow , when the young knights shot at our line . 
We had two beaters hit . 
I will do justice on that man , he answered . 
Who is his master ? He's Rahere's man , said I. Rahere's ? said Henry . 
Has my fool a fool ? 'I heard the bells jingle at the back of the stand , and a red leg waved over it then a black one . 
So , very slowly , Rahere the King's jester straddled the edge of the planks , and looked down on us , rubbing his chin . 
Loose knit , with cropped hair , and a sad priest's face , under his cockscomb cap , that he could twist like a strip of wet leather . 
His eyes were hollow set . 
Nay , nay , Brother , said he . 
If I suffer you to keep your fool , you must e'en suffer me to keep mine . 
'This he delivered slowly into the King's angry face ! My faith , a King's jester must be bolder than lions ! Now we will judge the matter , said Rahere . 
Let these two brave knights go hang my fool because he warned King Henry against running after Saxon deer through woods full of Saxons . 
Therefore , hang the fool's fool , knights ! 'Mark the fool's cunning ! Rahere had himself given us order to hang the man . 
No King dare confirm a fool's command to such a great baron as De Aquila and the helpless King knew it . 
What ? No hanging ? said Rahere , after a silence . 
A' God's Gracious Name , kill something , then ! Go forward with the hunt ! 'He splits his face ear to ear in a yawn like a fish pond . 
Henry , says he , the next time I sleep , do not pester me with thy fooleries . 
Then he throws himself out of sight behind the back of the stand . 
'I have seen courage with mirth in De Aquila and Hugh , but stark mad courage of Rahere's sort I had never even guessed at . 
'What did the King say ? cried Dan . 
So , like a storm , this strange thing passed ! 'He wiped his eyes , and signed to De Aquila to let the drive come on . 
Most vilely his knights and barons shot ! De Aquila kept me beside him , and I saw no more of Hugh till evening . 
We two had a little hut of boughs by the camp , where I went to wash me before the great supper , and in the dusk I heard Hugh on the couch . 
Wearied , Hugh ? said I. A little , he says . 
I have driven Saxon deer all day for a Norman King , and there is enough of Earl Godwin's blood left in me to sicken at the work . 
Wait awhile with the torch . 
'I waited then , and I thought I heard him sob . 
'Poor Hugh ! Was he so tired ? said Una . 
'Hobden says beating is hard work sometimes . 
'I think this tale is getting like the woods , said Dan , 'darker and twistier every minute . 
Sir Richard had walked as he talked , and though the children thought they knew the woods well enough , they felt a little lost . 
'A dark tale enough , says Sir Richard , 'but the end was not all black . 
When we had washed , we went to wait on the King at meat in the great pavilion . 
just before the trumpets blew for the Entry all the guests upstanding long Rahere comes posturing up to Hugh , and strikes him with his bauble bladder . 
Here's a heavy heart for a joyous meal ! he says . 
But each man must have his black hour or where would be the merit of laughing ? Take a fool's advice , and sit it out with my man . 
I'll make a jest to excuse you to the King if he remember to ask for you . 
That's more than I would do for Archbishop Anselm . 
'Hugh looked at him heavy eyed . 
The King's jester ? Oh , Saints , what punishment for my King ! and smites his hands together . 
Go go fight it out in the dark , says Rahere , and thy Saxon Saints reward thee for thy pity to my fool . 
He pushed him from the pavilion , and Hugh lurched away like one drunk . 
'But why ? said Una . 
'Ah , why indeed ? Live you long enough , maiden , and you shall know the meaning of many whys . 
'I wondered too , but it was my duty to wait on the King at the High Table in all that glitter and stir . 
Many great men sat at the High Table chosen by the King for their wits , not for their birth . 
I have forgotten their names , and their faces I only saw that one night . 
'At the King's outgoing De Aquila bade me follow him , with his great bishops and two great barons , to the little pavilion . 
We had devised jugglers and dances for the Court's sport but Henry loved to talk gravely to grave men , and De Aquila had told him of my travels to the world's end . 
'Rahere lay behind the King's chair . 
The questions he darted forth at me were as shrewd as the flames . 
I was telling of our fight with the apes , as ye called them , at the world's end . 
See 'The Knights of the Joyous Venture' in PUCK OF POOK'S HILL . 
But where is the Saxon knight that went with you ? said Henry . 
He must confirm these miracles . 
He is busy , said Rahere , confirming a new miracle . 
Enough miracles for today , said the King . 
Rahere , you have saved your long neck . 
Pest on it , said Rahere . 
Who would be a King's jester ? I'll bring him , Brother , if you'll see that none of your home brewed bishops taste my wine while I am away . 
So he jingled forth between the men at arms at the door . 
'Henry had made many bishops in England without the Pope's leave . 
I know not the rights of the matter , but only Rahere dared jest about it . 
We waited on the King's next word . 
I think Rahere is jealous of you , said he , smiling , to Nigel of Ely . 
He was one bishop and William of Exeter , the other Wal wist the Saxons called him laughed long . 
Rahere is a priest at heart . 
Shall I make him a bishop , De Aquila ? says the King . 
There might be worse , said our Lord of Pevensey . 
Rahere would never do what Anselm has done . 
'This Anselm , Archbishop of Canterbury , had gone off raging to the Pope at Rome , because Henry would make bishops without his leave either . 
I knew not the rights of it , but De Aquila did , and the King laughed . 
He should have been a monk , not a bishop , said the King . 
I'll never quarrel with Anselm or his Pope till they quarrel with my England . 
If we can keep the King's peace till my son comes to rule , no man will lightly quarrel with our England . 
Amen , said De Aquila . 
But the King's peace ends when the King dies . 
The King's peace dies with the King . 
The custom then is that all laws are outlaw , and men do what they will till the new King is chosen . 
I will amend that , said the King hotly . 
Truth , said William of Exeter but that he would have said to any word of the King . 
'The two great barons behind said nothing . 
This teaching was clean against their stomachs , for when the King's peace ends , the great barons go to war and increase their lands . 
Here is your knight , Brother , said he , and for the better disport of the company , here is my fool . 
'We looked at the King , but he smiled . 
Rahere promised he would show me some sport after supper to cover his morning's offence , said he to De Aquila . 
So this is thy man , Rahere ? Even so , said Rahere . 
It is most cruel true , he whispered to me . 
The old man proved it to me at the beat after you left , and again in our hut even now . 
It is Harold , my King ! 'De Aquila crept forward . 
He walked about the man and swallowed . 
Bones of the Saints ! said he , staring . 
Many a stray shot goes too well home , said Rahere . 
The old man flinched as at an arrow . 
Why do you hurt me still ? he said in Saxon . 
It was on some bones of some Saints that I promised I would give my England to the Great Duke . 
He turns on us all crying , shrilly Thanes , he had caught me at Rouen a lifetime ago . 
If I had not promised , I should have lain there all my life . 
What else could I have done ? I have lain in a strait prison all my life none the less . 
There is no need to throw stones at me . 
He guarded his face with his arms , and shivered . 
Now his madness will strike him down , said Rahere . 
Cast out the evil spirit , one of you new bishops . 
'Said William of Exeter Harold was slain at Santlache fight . 
All the world knows it . 
I think this man must have forgotten , said Rahere . 
Thou wast well slain at Hastings forty years gone , less three months and nine days . 
'The man uncovered his face . 
I thought they would stone me , he said . 
I did not know I spoke before a King . 
He came to his full towering height no mean man , but frail beyond belief . 
'The King turned to the tables , and held him out his own cup of wine . 
The old man drank , and beckoned behind him , and , before all the Normans , my Hugh bore away the empty cup , Saxon fashion , upon the knee . 
It is Harold ! said De Aquila . 
His own stiff necked blood kneels to serve him . 
Be it so , said Henry . 
Sit , then , thou that hast been Harold of England . 
'The madman sat , and hard , dark Henry looked at him between half shut eyes . 
We others stared like oxen , all but De Aquila , who watched Rahere as I have seen him watch a far sail on the sea . 
'The wine and the warmth cast the old man into a dream . 
His white head bowed his hands hung . 
His eye indeed was opened , but the mind was shut . 
When he stretched his feet , they were scurfed and road cut like a slave's . 
Ah , Rahere , cried Hugh , why hast thou shown him thus ? Better have let him die than shame him and me ! Shame thee ? said the King . 
Would any baron of mine kneel to me if I were witless , discrowned , and alone , and Harold had my throne ? No , said Rahere . 
I am the sole fool that might do it , Brother , unless he pointed at De Aquila , whom he had only met that day yonder tough Norman crab kept me company . 
But , Sir Hugh , I did not mean to shame him . 
He hath been somewhat punished through , maybe , little fault of his own . 
, Yet he lied to my Father , the Conqueror , said the King , and the old man flinched in his sleep . 
Maybe , said Rahere , but thy Brother Robert , whose throat we purpose soon to slit with our own hands Hutt ! said the King , laughing . 
I'll keep Robert at my table for a life's guest when I catch him . 
It is all his cursed barons . 
None the less , said Rahere , Robert may say that thou hast not always spoken the stark truth to him about England . 
I should not hang too many men on that bough , Brother . 
And it is certain , said Hugh , that he pointed to the old man Harold was forced to make his promise to the Great Duke . 
Very strongly , forced , said De Aquila . 
He had never any pride in the Duke William's dealings with Harold before Hastings . 
Yet , as he said , one cannot build a house all of straight sticks . 
No matter how he was forced , said Henry , England was promised to my Father William by Edward the Confessor . 
Is it not so ? William of Exeter nodded . 
Harold confirmed that promise to my Father on the bones of the Saints . 
Afterwards he broke his oath and would have taken England by the strong hand . 
Oh ! La ! La ! Rahere rolled up his eyes like a girl . 
But De Aquila saved us quickly . 
Promise kept or promise broken , he said , Harold came near enough to breaking us Normans at Santlache . 
Was it so close a fight , then ? said Henry . 
A hair would have turned it either way , De Aquila answered . 
His house carles stood like rocks against rain . 
Where wast thou , Hugh , in it ? Among Godwin's folk beneath the Golden Dragon till your front gave back , and we broke our ranks to follow , said Hugh . 
But I bade you stand ! I bade you stand ! I knew it was all a deceit ! Harold had waked , and leaned forward as one crying from the grave . 
Ah , now we see how the traitor himself was betrayed ! said William of Exeter , and looked for a smile from the King . 
I made thee Bishop to preach at my bidding , said Henry and turning to Harold , Tell us here how thy people fought us ? said he . 
Their sons serve me now against my Brother Robert ! 'The old man shook his head cunningly . 
Na Na Na ! he cried . 
Every time I tell my tale men stone me . 
But , Thanes , I will tell you a greater thing . 
Listen ! He told us how many paces it was from some Saxon Saint's shrine to another shrine , and how many more back to the Abbey of the Battle . 
I have trodden it too often to be out even ten paces . 
Harold of Norway knows that , and so does Tostig my brother . 
They lie at ease at Stamford Bridge , and from Stamford Bridge to the Battle Abbey it is he muttered over many numbers and forgot us . 
Ay , said De Aquila , all in a muse . 
That man broke Harold of Norway at Stamford Bridge , and came near to breaking us at Santlache all within one month . 
But how did he come alive from Santlache fight ? asked the King . 
Ask him ! Hast thou heard it , Rahere ? Never . 
He says he has been stoned too often for telling the tale . 
But he can count you off Saxon and Norman shrines till daylight , said Rahere and the old man nodded proudly . 
My faith ! said Henry after a while . 
I think even my Father the Great Duke would pity if he could see him . 
How if he does see ? said Rahere . 
'Hugh covered his face with his sound hand . 
Ah , why hast thou shamed him ? he cried again to Rahere . 
No no , says the old man , reaching to pluck at Rahere's cape . 
None stone me now , and he played with the bells on the scollops of it . 
How if he had been brought to me when you found him ? said the King to Rahere . 
You would have held him prisoner again as the Great Duke did , Rahere answered . 
True , said our King . 
He is nothing except his name . 
Yet that name might have been used by stronger men to trouble my England . 
I must have made him my life's guest as I shall make Robert . 
I knew it , said Rahere . 
But while this man wandered mad by the wayside , none cared what he called himself . 
I learned to cease talking before the stones flew , says the old man , and Hugh groaned . 
Ye have heard ! said Rahere . 
Witless , landless , nameless , and , but for my protection , masterless , he can still make shift to bide his doom under the open sky . 
Then wherefore didst thou bring him here for a mock and a shame ? cried Hugh , beside himself with woe . 
A right mock and a just shame ! said William of Exeter . 
Not to me , said Nigel of Ely . 
I see and I tremble , but I neither mock nor judge . 
Rahere falls into the pure fool again . 
I'll pray for thee when I turn monk . 
Thou hast given thy blessing on a war between two most Christian brothers . 
He meant the war forward 'twixt Henry and Robert of Normandy . 
De Aquila , does thou mock him ? Rahere jingled from one to another , and the old man smiled . 
By the Bones of the Saints , not I , said our Lord of Pevensey . 
I know how dooms near he broke us at Santlache . 
Sir Hugh , you are excused the question . 
Na Na ! they said , and waved him back foolishly enough . 
'He hies him across to staring , nodding Harold , and speaks from behind his chair . 
No man mocks thee , Who here judges this man ? Henry of England Nigel De Aquila ! On your souls , swift with the answer ! he cried . 
We were all the King not least over borne by that terrible scarlet and black wizard jester . 
Well for your souls , he said , wiping his brow . 
Next , shrill like a woman Oh , come to me ! and Hugh ran forward to hold Harold , that had slidden down in the chair . 
Hearken , said Rahere , his arm round Harold's neck . 
The King his bishops the knights all the world's crazy chessboard neither mock nor judge thee . 
Take that comfort with thee , Harold of England ! 'Hugh heaved the old man up and he smiled . 
Good comfort , said Harold . 
Tell me again ! I have been somewhat punished . 
'Rahere hallooed it once more into his ear as the head rolled . 
We heard him sigh , and Nigel of Ely stood forth , praying aloud . 
'Dead ? said Una , turning up a white face in the dusk . 
'That was his good fortune . 
To die in the King's presence , and on the breast of the most gentlest , truest knight of his own house . 
Some of us envied him , said Sir Richard , and fell back to take Swallow's bridle . 
'Turn left here , Puck called ahead of them from under an oak . 
They ducked down a narrow path through close ash plantation . 
The children hurried forward , but cutting a corner charged full abreast into the thorn faggot that old Hobden was carrying home on his back . 
'My ! My ! said he . 
'Have you scratted your face , Miss Una ? 'Sorry ! It's all right , said Una , rubbing her nose . 
'How many rabbits did you get today ? 'That's tellin' ! the old man grinned as he re hoisted his faggot . 
'I reckon Mus' Ridley he've got rheumatism along o' lyin' in the dik to see I didn't snap up any . 
Think o' that now ! They laughed a good deal while he told them the tale . 
'An' just as he crawled away I heard some one hollerin' to the hounds in our woods , said he . 
'Didn't you hear ? You must ha' been asleep sure ly . 
'Oh , what about the sleeper you promised to show us ? Dan cried . 
''Ere he be house an' all ! Hobden dived into the prickly heart of the faggot and took out a dormouse's wonderfully woven nest of grass and leaves . 
Don't breathe on him , said Una . 
'It'll make him warm and he'll wake up and die straight off . 
Won't he , Hobby ? 'Dat's a heap better by my reckonin' than wakin' up and findin' himself in a cage for life . 
No ! We'll lay him into the bottom o' this hedge . 
Dat's jus' right ! No more trouble for him till come Spring . 
An' now we'll go home . 
