SARA CREWE OR WHAT HAPPENED AT MISS MINCHIN'S BY FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT In the first place , Miss Minchin lived in London . 
On Miss Minchin's door there was a brass plate . 
When she was eight years old , she had been brought to Miss Minchin as a pupil , and left with her . 
Her papa had brought her all the way from India . 
Her mamma had died when she was a baby , and her papa had kept her with him as long as he could . 
The consequence was that Sara had a most extraordinary wardrobe . 
She cried so much , indeed , that she made herself ill . 
She will be a favorite pupil quite a favorite pupil , I see . 
For the first year she was a favorite pupil at least she was indulged a great deal more than was good for her . 
And every time a letter came , she hoped it would say he was coming , and they were to live together again . 
But about the middle of the third year a letter came bringing very different news . 
Because he was not a business man himself , her papa had given his affairs into the hands of a friend he trusted . 
The friend had deceived and robbed him . 
She was not a pretty child . 
She was thin , and had a weird , interesting little face , short black hair , and very large , green gray eyes fringed all around with heavy black lashes . 
I am the ugliest child in the school , she had said once , after staring at herself in the glass for some minutes . 
But there had been a clever , good natured little French teacher who had said to the music master Zat leetle Crewe . 
Vat a child ! A so ogly beauty ! Ze so large eyes ! ze so little spirituelle face . 
Waid till she grow up . 
Put your doll down ! said Miss Minchin . 
No , said the child , I won't put her down I want her with me . 
She is all I have . 
She has stayed with me all the time since my papa died . 
She had never been an obedient child . 
She had had her own way ever since she was born , and there was about her an air of silent determination under which Miss Minchin had always felt secretly uncomfortable . 
And that lady felt even now that perhaps it would be as well not to insist on her point . 
So she looked at her as severely as possible . 
You will have no time for dolls in future , she said you will have to work and improve yourself , and make yourself useful . 
Sara kept the big odd eyes fixed on her teacher and said nothing . 
Everything will be very different now , Miss Minchin went on . 
I sent for you to talk to you and make you understand . 
You have no home and no one to take care of you . 
The little pale olive face twitched nervously , but the green gray eyes did not move from Miss Minchin's , and still Sara said nothing . 
What are you staring at ? demanded Miss Minchin sharply . 
The truth was , Miss Minchin was in her worst mood . 
Now listen to me , she went on , and remember what I say . 
If you work hard and prepare to make yourself useful in a few years , I shall let you stay here . 
You are only a child , but you are a sharp child , and you pick up things almost without being taught . 
You speak French very well , and in a year or so you can begin to help with the younger pupils . 
By the time you are fifteen you ought to be able to do that much at least . 
I can speak French better than you , now , said Sara I always spoke it with my papa in India . 
Which was not at all polite , but was painfully true because Miss Minchin could not speak French at all , and , indeed , was not in the least a clever person . 
Don't be impudent , or you will be punished , she said . 
You will have to improve your manners if you expect to earn your bread . 
You are not a parlor boarder now . 
Remember that if you don't please me , and I send you away , you have no home but the street . 
Stay , commanded Miss Minchin , don't you intend to thank me ? Sara turned toward her . 
The nervous twitch was to be seen again in her face , and she seemed to be trying to control it . 
What for ? she said . 
For my kindness to you , replied Miss Minchin . 
For my kindness in giving you a home . 
Sara went two or three steps nearer to her . 
Her thin little chest was heaving up and down , and she spoke in a strange , unchildish voice . 
You are not kind , she said . 
And she turned again and went out of the room , leaving Miss Minchin staring after her strange , small figure in stony anger . 
The child walked up the staircase , holding tightly to her doll she meant to go to her bedroom , but at the door she was met by Miss Amelia . 
You are not to go in there , she said . 
That is not your room now . 
Where is my room ? asked Sara . 
You are to sleep in the attic next to the cook . 
She mounted two flights more , and reached the door of the attic room , opened it and went in , shutting it behind her . 
She stood against it and looked about her . 
Under the skylight in the roof , which showed nothing but an oblong piece of dull gray sky , there was a battered old red footstool . 
Sara went to it and sat down . 
She was a queer child , as I have said before , and quite unlike other children . 
She did not cry now . 
From that day her life changed entirely . 
Sometimes she used to feel as if it must be another life altogether , the life of some other child . 
Nobody took any notice of her except when they ordered her about . 
She was often kept busy all day and then sent into the deserted school room with a pile of books to learn her lessons or practise at night . 
She always looks as if she was finding you out , said one girl , who was sly and given to making mischief . 
I am , said Sara promptly , when she heard of it . 
That's what I look at them for . 
I like to know about people . 
I think them over afterward . 
She never made any mischief herself or interfered with any one . 
She talked very little , did as she was told , and thought a great deal . 
Sara thought Emily understood her feelings , though she was only wax and had a habit of staring herself . 
Sara used to talk to her at night . 
You are the only friend I have in the world , she would say to her . 
Why don't you say something ? Why don't you speak ? Sometimes I am sure you could , if you would try . 
It ought to make you try , to know you are the only thing I have . 
If I were you , I should try . 
Why don't you try ? It really was a very strange feeling she had about Emily . 
It arose from her being so desolate . 
She did not like to own to herself that her only friend , her only companion , could feel and hear nothing . 
She wanted to believe , or to pretend to believe , that Emily understood and sympathized with her , that she heard her even though she did not speak in answer . 
There were rat holes in the garret , and Sara detested rats , and was always glad Emily was with her when she heard their hateful squeak and rush and scratching . 
One of her pretends was that Emily was a kind of good witch and could protect her . 
Poor little Sara ! everything was pretend with her . 
She had a strong imagination there was almost more imagination than there was Sara , and her whole forlorn , uncared for child life was made up of imaginings . 
She imagined and pretended things until she almost believed them , and she would scarcely have been surprised at any remarkable thing that could have happened . 
So she insisted to herself that Emily understood all about her troubles and was really her friend . 
As to answering , she used to say , I don't answer very often . 
I never answer when I can help it . 
When people are insulting you , there is nothing so good for them as not to say a word just to look at them and think . 
Miss Minchin turns pale with rage when I do it . 
Miss Amelia looks frightened , so do the girls . 
There's nothing so strong as rage , except what makes you hold it in that's stronger . 
It's a good thing not to answer your enemies . 
Perhaps Emily is more like me than I am like myself . 
Perhaps she would rather not answer her friends , even . 
She keeps it all in her heart . 
But though she tried to satisfy herself with these arguments , Sara did not find it easy . 
I shall die presently ! she said at first . 
I can't bear this ! said the poor child , trembling . 
I know I shall die . 
I'm cold , I'm wet , I'm starving to death . 
I've walked a thousand miles to day , and they have done nothing but scold me from morning until night . 
And because I could not find that last thing they sent me for , they would not give me any supper . 
Some men laughed at me because my old shoes made me slip down in the mud . 
I'm covered with mud now . 
And they laughed ! Do you hear ! She looked at the staring glass eyes and complacent wax face , and suddenly a sort of heartbroken rage seized her . 
She lifted her little savage hand and knocked Emily off the chair , bursting into a passion of sobbing . 
You are nothing but a doll ! she cried . 
Nothing but a doll doll doll ! You care for nothing . 
You are stuffed with sawdust . 
You never had a heart . 
Nothing could ever make you feel . 
Sara hid her face on her arms and sobbed . 
Some rats in the wall began to fight and bite each other , and squeak and scramble . 
But , as I have already intimated , Sara was not in the habit of crying . 
Sara bent and picked her up . 
You can't help being a doll , she said , with a resigned sigh , any more than those girls downstairs can help not having any sense . 
We are not all alike . 
Perhaps you do your sawdust best . 
They had books they never read she had no books at all . 
If she had always had something to read , she would not have been so lonely . 
She liked romances and history and poetry she would read anything . 
There was also a fat , dull pupil , whose name was Ermengarde St . 
John , who was one of her resources . 
Sara had once actually found her crying over a big package of them . 
What is the matter with you ? she asked her , perhaps rather disdainfully . 
And it is just possible she would not have spoken to her , if she had not seen the books . 
The sight of books always gave Sara a hungry feeling , and she could not help drawing near to them if only to read their titles . 
What is the matter with you ? she asked . 
My papa has sent me some more books , answered Ermengarde woefully , and he expects me to read them . 
Don't you like reading ? said Sara . 
I hate it ! replied Miss Ermengarde St . 
Ermengarde wiped her eyes to look at such a prodigy . 
Oh , gracious ! she exclaimed . 
Sara returned the look with interest . 
A sudden plan formed itself in her sharp mind . 
Look here ! she said . 
If you'll lend me those books , I'll read them and tell you everything that's in them afterward , and I'll tell it to you so that you will remember it . 
The A B C children always remember what I tell them . 
Oh , goodness ! said Ermengarde . 
Do you think you could ? I know I could , answered Sara . 
I like to read , and I always remember . 
I'll take care of the books , too they will look just as new as they do now , when I give them back to you . 
Ermengarde put her handkerchief in her pocket . 
If you'll do that , she said , and if you'll make me remember , I'll give you I'll give you some money . 
I don't want your money , said Sara . 
I want your books I want them . 
And her eyes grew big and queer , and her chest heaved once . 
Take them , then , said Ermengarde I wish I wanted them , but I am not clever , and my father is , and he thinks I ought to be . 
Sara picked up the books and marched off with them . 
But when she was at the door , she stopped and turned around . 
What are you going to tell your father ? she asked . 
Oh , said Ermengarde , he needn't know he'll think I've read them . 
Sara looked down at the books her heart really began to beat fast . 
I won't do it , she said rather slowly , if you are going to tell him lies about it I don't like lies . 
Why can't you tell him I read them and then told you about them ? But he wants me to read them , said Ermengarde . 
He would like it better if I read them myself , replied Ermengarde . 
He will like it , I dare say , if you learn anything in any way , said Sara . 
I should , if I were your father . 
And though this was not a flattering way of stating the case , Ermengarde was obliged to admit it was true , and , after a little more argument , gave in . 
She had a gift for making things interesting . 
Her imagination helped her to make everything rather like a story , and she managed this matter so well that Miss St . 
John gained more information from her books than she would have gained if she had read them three times over by her poor stupid little self . 
It sounds nicer than it seems in the book , she would say . 
I never cared about Mary , Queen of Scots , before , and I always hated the French Revolution , but you make it seem like a story . 
It is a story , Sara would answer . 
Everything is a story everything in this world . 
You are a story I am a story Miss Minchin is a story . 
You can make a story out of anything . 
I can't , said Ermengarde . 
Sara stared at her a minute reflectively . 
No , she said at last . 
You are a little like Emily . 
Who is Emily ? Sara recollected herself . 
She knew she was sometimes rather impolite in the candor of her remarks , and she did not want to be impolite to a girl who was not unkind only stupid . 
Notwithstanding all her sharp little ways she had the sense to wish to be just to everybody . 
In the hours she spent alone , she used to argue out a great many curious questions with herself . 
One thing she had decided upon was , that a person who was clever ought to be clever enough not to be unjust or deliberately unkind to any one . 
So she would be as polite as she could to people who in the least deserved politeness . 
Emily is a person I know , she replied . 
Do you like her ? asked Ermengarde . 
Yes , I do , said Sara . 
Ermengarde examined her queer little face and figure again . 
And yet Ermengarde was beginning slowly to admire her . 
Do you like me ? said Ermengarde , finally , at the end of her scrutiny . 
It's not your fault that She pulled herself up quickly . 
She had been going to say , that you are stupid . 
That what ? asked Ermengarde . 
That you can't learn things quickly . 
If you can't , you can't . 
If I can , why , I can that's all . 
She paused a minute , looking at the plump face before her , and then , rather slowly , one of her wise , old fashioned thoughts came to her . 
Perhaps , she said , to be able to learn things quickly isn't everything . 
To be kind is worth a good deal to other people . 
Lots of clever people have done harm and been wicked . 
Look at Robespierre She stopped again and examined her companion's countenance . 
Do you remember about him ? she demanded . 
Well , I don't remember all of it , admitted Ermengarde . 
Well , said Sara , with courage and determination , I'll tell it to you over again . 
And she plunged once more into the gory records of the French Revolution , and told such stories of it , and made such vivid pictures of its horrors , that Miss St . 
John was afraid to go to bed afterward , and hid her head under the blankets when she did go , and shivered until she fell asleep . 
But afterward she preserved lively recollections of the character of Robespierre , and did not even forget Marie Antoinette and the Princess de Lamballe . 
Yes , it was true to this imaginative child everything was a story and the more books she read , the more imaginative she became . 
One of her chief entertainments was to sit in her garret , or walk about it , and suppose things . 
What large , downy pillows ! she would whisper . 
I only spare you because I am a princess , and you are a poor , stupid , old , vulgar thing , and don't know any better . 
It really kept her from being made rude and malicious by the rudeness and malice of those about her . 
A princess must be polite , she said to herself . 
I am a princess in rags and tatters , she would think , but I am a princess , inside . 
I like her best then . 
Those howling mobs of people did not frighten her . 
She was stronger than they were even when they cut her head off . 
Once when such thoughts were passing through her mind the look in her eyes so enraged Miss Minchin that she flew at Sara and boxed her ears . 
Sara awakened from her dream , started a little , and then broke into a laugh . 
What are you laughing at , you bold , impudent child ! exclaimed Miss Minchin . 
It took Sara a few seconds to remember she was a princess . 
Her cheeks were red and smarting from the blows she had received . 
I was thinking , she said . 
Beg my pardon immediately , said Miss Minchin . 
I will beg your pardon for laughing , if it was rude , said Sara but I won't beg your pardon for thinking . 
What were you thinking ? demanded Miss Minchin . 
How dare you think ? What were you thinking ? This occurred in the school room , and all the girls looked up from their books to listen . 
It always interested them when Miss Minchin flew at Sara , because Sara always said something queer , and never seemed in the least frightened . 
She was not in the least frightened now , though her boxed ears were scarlet , and her eyes were as bright as stars . 
I was thinking , she answered gravely and quite politely , that you did not know what you were doing . 
That I did not know what I was doing ! Miss Minchin fairly gasped . 
Yes , said Sara , and I was thinking what would happen , if I were a princess and you boxed my ears what I should do to you . 
And I was thinking that if I were one , you would never dare to do it , whatever I said or did . 
It almost seemed for the moment to her narrow , unimaginative mind that there must be some real power behind this candid daring . 
What ! she exclaimed , found out what ? That I really was a princess , said Sara , and could do anything anything I liked . 
Go to your room , cried Miss Minchin breathlessly , this instant . 
Attend to your lessons , young ladies . 
Sara made a little bow . 
Excuse me for laughing , if it was impolite , she said , and walked out of the room , leaving Miss Minchin in a rage and the girls whispering over their books . 
I shouldn't be at all surprised if she did turn out to be something , said one of them . 
Suppose she should ! That very afternoon Sara had an opportunity of proving to herself whether she was really a princess or not . 
It was a dreadful afternoon . 
For several days it had rained continuously , the streets were chilly and sloppy there was mud everywhere sticky London mud and over everything a pall of fog and drizzle . 
The absurd old feathers on her forlorn hat were more draggled and absurd than ever , and her down trodden shoes were so wet they could not hold any more water . 
Added to this , she had been deprived of her dinner , because Miss Minchin wished to punish her . 
But she did not know that . 
Suppose I had dry clothes on , she thought . 
Suppose I had good shoes and a long , thick coat and merino stockings and a whole umbrella . 
And suppose suppose , just when I was near a baker's where they sold hot buns , I should find sixpence which belonged to nobody . 
Suppose , if I did , I should go into the shop and buy six of the hottest buns , and should eat them all without stopping . 
Some very odd things happen in this world sometimes . 
It certainly was an odd thing which happened to Sara . 
She had to cross the street just as she was saying this to herself the mud was dreadful she almost had to wade . 
A piece of silver a tiny piece trodden upon by many feet , but still with spirit enough to shine a little . 
Not quite a sixpence , but the next thing to it a four penny piece ! In one second it was in her cold , little red and blue hand . 
It is true ! And then , if you will believe me , she looked straight before her at the shop directly facing her . 
It almost made Sara feel faint for a few seconds the shock and the sight of the buns and the delightful odors of warm bread floating up through the baker's cellar window . 
She knew that she need not hesitate to use the little piece of money . 
But I'll go and ask the baker's woman if she has lost a piece of money , she said to herself , rather faintly . 
So she crossed the pavement and put her wet foot on the step of the shop and as she did so she saw something which made her stop . 
Above the rags appeared a shock head of tangled hair and a dirty face , with big , hollow , hungry eyes . 
Sara knew they were hungry eyes the moment she saw them , and she felt a sudden sympathy . 
This , she said to herself , with a little sigh , is one of the Populace and she is hungrier than I am . 
The child this one of the Populace stared up at Sara , and shuffled herself aside a little , so as to give her more room . 
She was used to being made to give room to everybody . 
She knew that if a policeman chanced to see her , he would tell her to move on . 
Sara clutched her little four penny piece , and hesitated a few seconds . 
Then she spoke to her . 
Are you hungry ? she asked . 
The child shuffled herself and her rags a little more . 
Ain't I jist ! she said , in a hoarse voice . 
Jist ain't I ! Haven't you had any dinner ? said Sara . 
No dinner , more hoarsely still and with more shuffling , nor yet no bre'fast nor yet no supper nor nothin' . 
Since when ? asked Sara . 
Never got nothin' to day nowhere . 
Just to look at her made Sara more hungry and faint . 
But those queer little thoughts were at work in her brain , and she was talking to herself though she was sick at heart . 
Buns are a penny each . 
If it had been sixpence ! I could have eaten six . 
It won't be enough for either of us but it will be better than nothing . 
Wait a minute , she said to the beggar child . 
She went into the shop . 
It was warm and smelled delightfully . 
The woman was just going to put more hot buns in the window . 
If you please , said Sara , have you lost fourpence a silver fourpence ? And she held the forlorn little piece of money out to her . 
The woman looked at it and at her at her intense little face and draggled , once fine clothes . 
Bless us no , she answered . 
Did you find it ? In the gutter , said Sara . 
Keep it , then , said the woman . 
It may have been there a week , and goodness knows who lost it . 
You could never find out . 
I know that , said Sara , but I thought I'd ask you . 
Not many would , said the woman , looking puzzled and interested and good natured all at once . 
Do you want to buy something ? she added , as she saw Sara glance toward the buns . 
Four buns , if you please , said Sara those at a penny each . 
The woman went to the window and put some in a paper bag . 
Sara noticed that she put in six . 
I said four , if you please , she explained . 
I have only the fourpence . 
I'll throw in two for make weight , said the woman , with her good natured look . 
I dare say you can eat them some time . 
Aren't you hungry ? A mist rose before Sara's eyes . 
But just at that moment two or three customers came in at once and each one seemed in a hurry , so she could only thank the woman again and go out . 
The child was still huddled up on the corner of the steps . 
She looked frightful in her wet and dirty rags . 
She was muttering to herself . 
Sara opened the paper bag and took out one of the hot buns , which had already warmed her cold hands a little . 
See , she said , putting the bun on the ragged lap , that is nice and hot . 
Eat it , and you will not be so hungry . 
The child started and stared up at her then she snatched up the bun and began to cram it into her mouth with great wolfish bites . 
Oh , my ! Oh , my ! Sara heard her say hoarsely , in wild delight . 
Oh , my ! Sara took out three more buns and put them down . 
She is hungrier than I am , she said to herself . 
But her hand trembled when she put down the fourth bun . 
I'm not starving , she said and she put down the fifth . 
The little starving London savage was still snatching and devouring when she turned away . 
She was too ravenous to give any thanks , even if she had been taught politeness which she had not . 
She was only a poor little wild animal . 
Good bye , said Sara . 
When she reached the other side of the street she looked back . 
The child had a bun in both hands , and had stopped in the middle of a bite to watch her . 
At that moment the baker woman glanced out of her shop window . 
Well , I never ! she exclaimed . 
If that young'un hasn't given her buns to a beggar child ! It wasn't because she didn't want them , either well , well , she looked hungry enough . 
I'd give something to know what she did it for . 
She stood behind her window for a few moments and pondered . 
Then her curiosity got the better of her . 
She went to the door and spoke to the beggar child . 
Who gave you those buns ? she asked her . 
The child nodded her head toward Sara's vanishing figure . 
What did she say ? inquired the woman . 
Axed me if I was 'ungry , replied the hoarse voice . 
What did you say ? Said I was jist ! And then she came in and got buns and came out and gave them to you , did she ? The child nodded . 
The woman thought it over . 
Left just one for herself , she said , in a low voice . 
And she could have eaten the whole six I saw it in her eyes . 
She looked after the little , draggled , far away figure , and felt more disturbed in her usually comfortable mind than she had felt for many a day . 
I wish she hadn't gone so quick , she said . 
I'm blest if she shouldn't have had a dozen . 
Then she turned to the child . 
Are you hungry , yet ? she asked . 
I'm allus 'ungry , was the answer but 'tain't so bad as it was . 
Come in here , said the woman , and she held open the shop door . 
The child got up and shuffled in . 
To be invited into a warm place full of bread seemed an incredible thing . 
She did not know what was going to happen she did not care , even . 
Get yourself warm , said the woman , pointing to a fire in a tiny back room . 
And , look here , when you're hard up for a bite of bread , you can come here and ask for it . 
I'm blest if I won't give it to you for that young un's sake . 
Sara found some comfort in her remaining bun . 
It was hot and it was a great deal better than nothing . 
She broke off small pieces and ate them slowly to make it last longer . 
Suppose it was a magic bun , she said , and a bite was as much as a whole dinner . 
I should be over eating myself if I went on like this . 
It always interested Sara to catch glimpses of the rooms before the shutters were closed . 
She liked to imagine things about people who sat before the fires in the houses , or who bent over books at the tables . 
There was , for instance , the Large Family opposite . 
She called these people the Large Family not because they were large , for indeed most of them were little , but because there were so many of them . 
Sara was quite attached to them , and had given them all names out of books . 
She called them the Montmorencys , when she did not call them the Large Family . 
The most interesting person of all lived next door to Miss Minchin herself . 
Sara called him the Indian Gentleman . 
He had a native servant who looked even colder than himself , and he had a monkey who looked colder than the native servant . 
Sara had seen the monkey sitting on a table , in the sun , in the parlor window , and he always wore such a mournful expression that she sympathized with him deeply . 
I dare say , she used sometimes to remark to herself , he is thinking all the time of cocoanut trees and of swinging by his tail under a tropical sun . 
Perhaps he saved his master's life in the Sepoy rebellion , she thought . 
They look as if they might have had all sorts of adventures . 
I wish I could speak to the Lascar . 
I remember a little Hindustani . 
And one day she actually did speak to him , and his start at the sound of his own language expressed a great deal of surprise and delight . 
He was waiting for his master to come out to the carriage , and Sara , who was going on an errand as usual , stopped and spoke a few words . 
She had a special gift for languages and had remembered enough Hindustani to make herself understood by him . 
When his master came out , the Lascar spoke to him quickly , and the Indian Gentleman turned and looked at her curiously . 
And afterward the Lascar always greeted her with salaams of the most profound description . 
And occasionally they exchanged a few words . 
He must be as lonely as I am , thought Sara . 
Being rich does not seem to make him happy . 
That evening , as she passed the windows , the Lascar was closing the shutters , and she caught a glimpse of the room inside . 
There was a bright fire glowing in the grate , and the Indian Gentleman was sitting before it , in a luxurious chair . 
The room was richly furnished , and looked delightfully comfortable , but the Indian Gentleman sat with his head resting on his hand , and looked as lonely and unhappy as ever . 
Poor man ! said Sara I wonder what you are supposing' ? When she went into the house she met Miss Minchin in the hall . 
Where have you wasted your time ? said Miss Minchin . 
You have been out for hours ! It was so wet and muddy , Sara answered . 
It was hard to walk , because my shoes were so bad and slipped about so . 
Make no excuses , said Miss Minchin , and tell no falsehoods . 
Sara went downstairs to the kitchen . 
Why didn't you stay all night ? said the cook . 
Here are the things , said Sara , and laid her purchases on the table . 
The cook looked over them , grumbling . 
She was in a very bad temper indeed . 
May I have something to eat ? Sara asked rather faintly . 
Tea's over and done with , was the answer . 
Did you expect me to keep it hot for you ? Sara was silent a second . 
I had no dinner , she said , and her voice was quite low . 
She made it low , because she was afraid it would tremble . 
There's some bread in the pantry , said the cook . 
That's all you'll get at this time of day . 
Sara went and found the bread . 
It was old and hard and dry . 
The cook was in too bad a humor to give her anything to eat with it . 
She had just been scolded by Miss Minchin , and it was always safe and easy to vent her own spite on Sara . 
Really it was hard for the child to climb the three long flights of stairs leading to her garret . 
She often found them long and steep when she was tired , but to night it seemed as if she would never reach the top . 
Several times a lump rose in her throat and she was obliged to stop to rest . 
I can't pretend anything more to night , she said wearily to herself . 
I'll eat my bread and drink some water and then go to sleep , and perhaps a dream will come and pretend for me . 
I wonder what dreams are . 
If my papa had lived , she said , they would not have treated me like this . 
If my papa had lived , he would have taken care of me . 
Then she turned the handle and opened the garret door . 
Can you imagine it can you believe it ? I find it hard to believe it myself . 
Oh ! she exclaimed breathlessly . 
The little , cold , miserable room seemed changed into Fairyland . 
It was actually warm and glowing . 
It is bewitched ! said Sara . 
She stood with her back against the door and looked and looked . 
But soon she began to feel warm , and then she moved forward . 
A fire that I only thought I saw surely wouldn't feel warm , she said . 
She went to it and knelt before it . 
She touched the chair , the table she lifted the cover of one of the dishes . 
There was something hot and savory in it something delicious . 
The tea pot had tea in it , ready for the boiling water from the little kettle one plate had toast on it , another , muffins . 
It is real , said Sara . 
The fire is real enough to warm me I can sit in the chair the things are real enough to eat . 
It was like a fairy story come true it was heavenly . 
She went to the bed and touched the blankets and the wrap . 
She opened one book , and on the title page was written in a strange hand , The little girl in the attic . 
Suddenly was it a strange thing for her to do ? Sara put her face down on the queer , foreign looking quilted robe and burst into tears . 
I don't know who it is , she said , but somebody cares about me a little somebody is my friend . 
Somehow that thought warmed her more than the fire . 
She really cried more at this strange thought of having a friend even though an unknown one than she had cried over many of her worst troubles . 
But these tears seemed different from the others , for when she had wiped them away they did not seem to leave her eyes and her heart hot and smarting . 
And then imagine , if you can , what the rest of the evening was like . 
She had lived such a life of imagining , and had found her pleasure so long in improbabilities , that she was quite equal to accepting any wonderful thing that happened . 
As to finding out who had done all this , she knew that it was out of the question . 
She did not know a human soul by whom it could seem in the least degree probable that it could have been done . 
There is nobody , she said to herself , nobody . 
She discussed the matter with Emily , it is true , but more because it was delightful to talk about it than with a view to making any discoveries . 
But we have a friend , Emily , she said we have a friend . 
Sara could not even imagine a being charming enough to fill her grand ideal of her mysterious benefactor . 
And when she fell asleep , beneath the soft white blanket , she dreamed all night of this magnificent personage , and talked to him in Hindustani , and made salaams to him . 
Upon one thing she was determined . 
So , when she went down the next morning , she shut her door very tight and did her best to look as if nothing unusual had occurred . 
The fire and the supper were again there , and beside them a number of other things which so altered the look of the garret that Sara quite lost her breath . 
A piece of bright , strange , heavy cloth covered the battered mantel , and on it some ornaments had been placed . 
All the bare , ugly things which could be covered with draperies had been concealed and made to look quite pretty . 
Some odd materials in rich colors had been fastened against the walls with sharp , fine tacks so sharp that they could be pressed into the wood without hammering . 
Some brilliant fans were pinned up , and there were several large cushions . 
A long , old wooden box was covered with a rug , and some cushions lay on it , so that it wore quite the air of a sofa . 
Sara simply sat down , and looked , and looked again . 
It is exactly like something fairy come true , she said there isn't the least difference . 
I feel as if I might wish for anything diamonds and bags of gold and they would appear ! That couldn't be any stranger than this . 
Almost every day something new was done to the garret . 
And the magician had taken care that the child should not be hungry , and that she should have as many books as she could read . 
Downstairs Miss Minchin was as cruel and insulting as ever , Miss Amelia was as peevish , and the servants were as vulgar . 
Sara was sent on errands , and scolded , and driven hither and thither , but somehow it seemed as if she could bear it all . 
The delightful sense of romance and mystery lifted her above the cook's temper and malice . 
The comfort she enjoyed and could always look forward to was making her stronger . 
If she came home from her errands wet and tired , she knew she would soon be warm , after she had climbed the stairs . 
In a few weeks she began to look less thin . 
A little color came into her cheeks , and her eyes did not seem much too big for her face . 
It was just when this was beginning to be so apparent that Miss Minchin sometimes stared at her questioningly , that another wonderful thing happened . 
A man came to the door and left several parcels . 
to the little girl in the attic . 
Sara herself was sent to open the door , and she took them in . 
She laid the two largest parcels down on the hall table and was looking at the address , when Miss Minchin came down the stairs . 
Take the things upstairs to the young lady to whom they belong , she said . 
Don't stand there staring at them . 
They belong to me , answered Sara , quietly . 
To you ! exclaimed Miss Minchin . 
What do you mean ? I don't know where they came from , said Sara , but they're addressed to me . 
Miss Minchin came to her side and looked at them with an excited expression . 
What is in them ? she demanded . 
I don't know , said Sara . 
Open them ! she demanded , still more excitedly . 
Sara did as she was told . 
They contained pretty and comfortable clothing , clothing of different kinds shoes and stockings and gloves , a warm coat , and even an umbrella . 
On the pocket of the coat was pinned a paper on which was written , To be worn every day will be replaced by others when necessary . 
Miss Minchin was quite agitated . 
This was an incident which suggested strange things to her sordid mind . 
She felt queer indeed and uncertain , and she gave a side glance at Sara . 
Well , she said , in a voice such as she had never used since the day the child lost her father well , some one is very kind to you . 
She scarcely seemed to be the same Sara . 
She was neatly dressed in a pretty gown of warm browns and reds , and even her stockings and slippers were nice and dainty . 
Perhaps some one has left her a fortune , one of the girls whispered . 
I always thought something would happen to her , she is so queer . 
That night when Sara went to her room she carried out a plan she had been devising for some time . 
She wrote a note to her unknown friend . 
It seems as if I ought to say them . 
Thank you thank you thank you ! THE LITTLE GIRL IN THE ATTIC . 
A few nights later a very odd thing happened . 
She found something in the room which she certainly would never have expected . 
Why , it's the monkey ! she cried . 
He had probably climbed to the garret on a tour of investigation , and getting out upon the roof , and being attracted by the light in Sara's attic , had crept in . 
Oh , you queer , poor , ugly , foreign little thing ! said Sara , caressing him . 
I can't help liking you . 
But I do like you you have such a forlorn little look in your face . 
Perhaps you are sorry you are so ugly , and it's always on your mind . 
He examined Sara quite seriously , and anxiously , too . 
Upon the whole , he seemed pleased with Sara . 
But I must take you back , she said to him , though I'm sorry to have to do it . 
Oh , the company you would be to a person ! She lifted him from her shoulder , set him on her knee , and gave him a bit of cake . 
He sat and nibbled it , and then put his head on one side , looked at her , wrinkled his forehead , and then nibbled again , in the most companionable manner . 
But you must go home , said Sara at last and she took him in her arms to carry him downstairs . 
Evidently he did not want to leave the room , for as they reached the door he clung to her neck and gave a little scream of anger . 
You mustn't be an ungrateful monkey , said Sara . 
You ought to be fondest of your own family . 
I am sure the Lascar is good to you . 
Nobody saw her on her way out , and very soon she was standing on the Indian Gentleman's front steps , and the Lascar had opened the door for her . 
I found your monkey in my room , she said in Hindustani . 
I think he got in through the window . 
The instant he heard it the Lascar disappeared , and left Sara still holding the monkey . 
It was not many moments , however , before he came back bringing a message . 
His master had told him to bring Missy into the library . 
The Sahib was very ill , but he wished to see Missy . 
So she followed the Lascar . 
When she entered the room the Indian Gentleman was lying on an easy chair , propped up with pillows . 
His yellow face was thin , and his eyes were hollow . 
He gave Sara a rather curious look it was as if she wakened in him some anxious interest . 
You live next door ? he said . 
I live at Miss Minchin's . 
She keeps a boarding school ? Yes , said Sara . 
And you are one of her pupils ? Sara hesitated a moment . 
I don't know exactly what I am , she replied . 
Why not ? asked the Indian Gentleman . 
The monkey gave a tiny squeak , and Sara stroked him . 
At first , she said , I was a pupil and a parlor boarder but now What do you mean by at first' ? asked the Indian Gentleman . 
When I was first taken there by my papa . 
Well , what has happened since then ? said the invalid , staring at her and knitting his brows with a puzzled expression . 
My papa died , said Sara . 
That is about it , isn't it ? The color deepened on Sara's cheeks . 
There was no one to take care of me , and no money , she said . 
What did your father mean by losing his money ? said the gentleman , fretfully . 
The red in Sara's cheeks grew deeper , and she fixed her odd eyes on the yellow face . 
He did not lose it himself , she said . 
He had a friend he was fond of , and it was his friend , who took his money . 
He trusted his friend too much . 
She saw the invalid start the strangest start as if he had been suddenly frightened . 
Then he spoke nervously and excitedly That's an old story , he said . 
It happens every day but sometimes those who are blamed those who do the wrong don't intend it , and are not so bad . 
It may happen through a mistake a miscalculation they may not be so bad . 
No , said Sara , but the suffering is just as bad for the others . 
The Indian Gentleman pushed aside some of the gorgeous wraps that covered him . 
Come a little nearer , and let me look at you , he said . 
His voice sounded very strange it had a more nervous and excited tone than before . 
Sara had an odd fancy that he was half afraid to look at her . 
She came and stood nearer , the monkey clinging to her and watching his master anxiously over his shoulder . 
The Indian Gentleman's hollow , restless eyes fixed themselves on her . 
Yes , he said at last . 
Yes I can see it . 
Tell me your father's name . 
His name was Ralph Crewe , said Sara . 
Perhaps , a sudden thought flashing upon her , perhaps you may have heard of him ? He died in India . 
The Indian Gentleman sank back upon his pillows . 
He looked very weak , and seemed out of breath . 
Yes , he said , I knew him . 
If he had only lived he would have known . 
It turned out well after all . 
He was a fine young fellow . 
I was fond of him . 
I will make it right . 
Sara thought he was going to die . 
But there was no need to call the Lascar . 
He must have been waiting at the door . 
He was in the room and by his master's side in an instant . 
He seemed to know what to do . 
He lifted the drooping head , and gave the invalid something in a small glass . 
The Indian Gentleman lay panting for a few minutes , and then he spoke in an exhausted but eager voice , addressing the Lascar in Hindustani Go for Carmichael , he said . 
Tell him to come here at once . 
, Sara went home , and was allowed to take the monkey with her . 
She certainly did not sleep very much that night , though the monkey behaved beautifully , and did not disturb her in the least . 
What child ? Sara kept asking herself . 
First , Mr. Carmichael came and had an interview with Miss Minchin . 
But Mr. Carrisford had been very unhappy . 
When he had taken the house next to Miss Minchin's he had been so ill and wretched that he had for the time given up the search . 
His troubles and the Indian climate had brought him almost to death's door indeed , he had not expected to live more than a few months . 
But the Lascar had found out something of Sara's unhappy little life , and about the garret . 
And at last , when Sara brought home the truant monkey , he had felt a wish to see her , and then her likeness to her father had done the rest . 
The excitement of last night has made him very weak , but we really think he will get well , now that such a load is taken from his mind . 
And when he is stronger , I am sure he will be as kind to you as your own papa would have been . 
He has a very good heart , and he is fond of children and he has no family at all . 
But we must make you happy and rosy , and you must learn to play and run about , as my little girls do As your little girls do ? said Sara . 
I wonder if I could . 
I used to watch them and wonder what it was like . 
All the older ones knew something of her wonderful story . 
They were so sorry for her , and so delighted and curious about her , all at once . 
I shall certainly wake up presently , Sara kept saying to herself . 
This one must be a dream . 
The other one turned out to be real but this couldn't be . 
I couldn't bear to see it in one of my own children . 
What the poor little love must have had to bear in that dreadful woman's house ! But , surely , she will forget it in time . 
Mr. Carrisford did not die , but recovered , and Sara went to live with him and no real princess could have been better taken care of than she was . 
It seemed that the Indian Gentleman could not do enough to make her happy , and to repay her for the past and the Lascar was her devoted slave . 
He had told her to call him Uncle Tom . 
There doesn't seem to be anything left to suppose , she added . 
Scarcely a day passed in which he did not do something new for her . 
Stooping to read the inscription upon the collar , Sara was delighted to read the words I am Boris I serve the Princess Sara . 
Sara was as fond of the Large Family as they were of her . 
She soon felt as if she were a member of it , and the companionship of the healthy , happy children was very good for her . 
She had even tried to retrieve it by suggesting that Sara's education should be continued under her care , and had gone to the length of making an appeal to the child herself . 
I have always been very fond of you , she said . 
Then Sara fixed her eyes upon her and gave her one of her odd looks . 
Have you ? she answered . 
Yes , said Miss Minchin . 
Amelia and I have always said you were the cleverest child we had with us , and I am sure we could make you happy as a parlor boarder . 
You know why I would not stay with you , she said . 
And it seems probable that Miss Minchin did , for after that simple answer she had not the boldness to pursue the subject . 
She merely sent in a bill for the expense of Sara's education and support , and she made it quite large enough . 
And because Mr. Carrisford thought Sara would wish it paid , it was paid . 
What are you supposing , Sara ? he asked . 
Sara looked up with a bright color on her cheeks . 
I was supposing , she said I was remembering that hungry day , and a child I saw . 
But there were a great many hungry days , said the Indian Gentleman , with a rather sad tone in his voice . 
Which hungry day was it ? I forgot you didn't know , said Sara . 
It was the day I found the things in my garret . 
And I was supposing' a kind of plan , said Sara , when she had finished I was thinking I would like to do something . 
What is it ? said her guardian in a low tone . 
You may do anything you like to do , Princess . 
Thank you , said Sara you see I know what it is to be hungry , and it is very hard when one can't even pretend it away . 
Yes , yes , my dear , said the Indian Gentleman . 
Yes , it must be . 
Come and sit on this footstool near my knee , and only remember you are a princess . 
Yes , said Sara , and I can give buns and bread to the Populace . 
drew her small , dark head down upon his knee and stroked her hair . 
When Sara entered the shop the woman turned and looked at her and , leaving the buns , came and stood behind the counter . 
For a moment she looked at Sara very hard indeed , and then her good natured face lighted up . 
I'm that sure I remember you , miss , she said . 
And yet Yes , said Sara , once you gave me six buns for fourpence , and And you gave five of 'em to a beggar child , said the woman . 
I couldn't make it out at first . 
I beg pardon , sir , but there's not many young people that notices a hungry face in that way , and I've thought of it many a time . 
Excuse the liberty , miss , but you look rosier and better than you did that day . 
I am better , thank you , said Sara , and and I am happier , and I have come to ask you to do something for me . 
Why , bless me ! she said , when she had heard it all . 
Yes , miss , it'll be a pleasure to me to do it . 
An' how wet an' cold you was , an' how you looked , an' yet you give away your hot buns as if you was a princess . 
The Indian Gentleman smiled involuntarily , and Sara smiled a little too . 
She looked so hungry , she said . 
She was hungrier than I was . 
She was starving , said the woman . 
Many's the time she's told me of it since how she sat there in the wet , and felt as if a wolf was a tearing at her poor young insides . 
Oh , have you seen her since then ? exclaimed Sara . 
Do you know where she is ? I know ! said the woman . 
She stepped to the door of the little back parlor and spoke and the next minute a girl came out and followed her behind the counter . 
And actually it was the beggar child , clean and neatly clothed , and looking as if she had not been hungry for a long time . 
She looked shy , but she had a nice face , now that she was no longer a savage and the wild look had gone from her eyes . 
And she knew Sara in an instant , and stood and looked at her as if she could never look enough . 
Her name's Anne she has no other . 
The two children stood and looked at each other a few moments . 
In Sara's eyes a new thought was growing . 
I'm glad you have such a good home , she said . 
Perhaps Mrs. Brown will let you give the buns and bread to the children perhaps you would like to do it because you know what it is to be hungry , too . 
Yes , miss , said the girl . 
