It only just p'isoned him for more . 
That was all the effect it had . 
For a while he WAS satisfied . 
Everybody made much of him , and he tilted up his nose and stepped around the town as though he owned it . 
Some called him Tom Sawyer the Traveler , and that just swelled him up fit to bust . 
The boys envied me and Jim a good deal , but land ! they just knuckled to the dirt before TOM . 
And now comes along a boy not quite fifteen , and sets everybody admiring and gawking over HIS travels , and it just give the poor old man the high strikes . 
The postage wasn't paid on it , and that was another thing to worry about . 
Well , at last he couldn't stand it any longer . 
He saw lots of land and lots of vil lages and four cities . 
He was gone 'most eight weeks , and there never was such a proud man in the village as he when he got back . 
You never see anything like it . 
Well , there wasn't any way now to settle which was the greatest traveler some said it was Nat , some said it was Tom . 
Everybody allowed that Nat had seen the most longitude , but they had to give in that what ever Tom was short in longitude he had made up in latitude and climate . 
It was about a stand off so both of them had to whoop up their dangerous adventures , and try to get ahead THAT way . 
He could make anybody's flesh crawl , and he'd turn pale and hold his breath when he told it , and sometimes women and girls got so faint they couldn't stick it out . 
Nat 'most dropped , it made him so sick . 
His horse was put up , and he didn't know what to do . 
But just then along comes a darky driving an old ramshackly hack , and he see his chance . 
He was horrible scared , but he laid into his work for all he was worth , and hung tight to the arm loops and made his legs fairly fly . 
It WAS a powerful good adventure , and Tom Sawyer had to work his bullet wound mighty lively to hold his own against it . 
Now that is the way boys is always thinking , but he was the first one I ever heard come out and say it . 
So then he set to work to get up a plan to make him celebrated and pretty soon he struck it , and offered to take me and Jim in . 
Tom Sawyer was always free and generous that way . 
That warn't ever Tom Sawyer's way , I can say that for him . 
But I notice they always git come up with all you got to do is to wait . 
Well , we went out in the woods on the hill , and Tom told us what it was . 
What's a crusade ? I says . 
And I don't care to , nuther . 
I've lived till now and done without it , and had my health , too . 
But as soon as you tell me , I'll know , and that's soon enough . 
I don't see any use in finding out things and clogging up my head with them when I mayn't ever have any occasion to use 'em . 
There was Lance Williams , he learned how to talk Choctaw here till one come and dug his grave for him . 
Now , then , what's a crusade ? But I can tell you one thing before you begin if it's a patent right , there's no money in it . 
Bill Thompson he Patent right ! says he . 
I never see such an idiot . 
Why , a crusade is a kind of war . 
I thought he must be losing his mind . 
But no , he was in real earnest , and went right on , perfectly ca'm . 
A crusade is a war to recover the Holy Land from the paynim . 
Which Holy Land ? Why , the Holy Land there ain't but one . 
What do we want of it ? Why , can't you understand ? It's in the hands of the paynim , and it's our duty to take it away from them . 
How did we come to let them git hold of it ? We didn't come to let them git hold of it . 
Why , Tom , then it must belong to them , don't it ? Why of course it does . 
Who said it didn't ? I studied over it , but couldn't seem to git at the right of it , no way . 
I says It's too many for me , Tom Sawyer . 
It ain't a farm , it's entirely different . 
You see , it's like this . 
It's a shame , and we ought not to stand it a minute . 
We ought to march against them and take it away from them . 
Religious to go and take the land away from people that owns it ? Certainly it's always been considered so . 
Jim he shook his head , and says Mars Tom , I reckon dey's a mistake about it somers dey mos' sholy is . 
I's religious myself , en I knows plenty religious people , but I hain't run across none dat acts like dat . 
Same time , I feel as sorry for dem paynims as Mars Tom . 
De hard part gwine to be to kill folks dat a body hain't been 'quainted wid and dat hain't done him no harm . 
Dat's it , you see . 
Don't you reckon dey is ? Why , DEY'D give it , I know dey would , en den Then what ? Well , Mars Tom , my idea is like dis . 
Jim didn't mean no harm , and I didn't mean no harm . 
But he said we didn't know enough to take the chance when we had it , and he wouldn't ever offer it again . 
When he once got set , you couldn't budge him . 
But I didn't care much . 
I am peaceable , and don't get up rows with people that ain't doing nothing to me . 
I allowed if the paynim was satisfied I was , and we would let it stand at that . 
Now Tom he got all that notion out of Walter Scott's book , which he was always reading . 
And it WAS a wild notion , because in my opinion he never could've raised the men , and if he did , as like as not he would've got licked . 
THE BALLOON ASCENSION WELL , Tom got up one thing after another , but they all had tender spots about 'em somewheres , and he had to shove 'em aside . 
So at last he was about in despair . 
He wasn't going to have Nat Parsons coming back brag ging about seeing the balloon , and him having to listen to it and keep quiet . 
So he wanted me and Jim to go too , and we went . 
It was a noble big balloon , and had wings and fans and all sorts of things , and wasn't like any balloon you see in pictures . 
But , good land ! what did he want to sass back for ? You see , it couldn't do him no good , and it was just nuts for them . 
They HAD him , you know . 
But that was his way . 
I reckon he couldn't help it he was made so , I judge . 
He was a good enough sort of cretur , and hadn't no harm in him , and was just a genius , as the papers said , which wasn't his fault . 
We can't all be sound we've got to be the way we're made . 
If they was humbler , and listened and tried to learn , it would be better for them . 
We went aboard , and there was twenty people there , snoop ing around and examining , and old Nat Parsons was there , too . 
The professor kept fussing around getting ready , and the people went ashore , drifting out one at a time , and old Nat he was the last . 
Of course it wouldn't do to let him go out behind US . 
We mustn't budge till he was gone , so we could be last ourselves . 
But he was gone now , so it was time for us to follow . 
I heard a big shout , and turned around the city was dropping from under us like a shot ! It made me sick all through , I was so scared . 
Jim turned gray and couldn't say a word , and Tom didn't say nothing , but looked excited . 
The city went on dropping down , and down , and down but we didn't seem to be doing nothing but just hang in the air and stand still . 
By and by the earth was a ball just a round ball , of a dull color , with shiny stripes wriggling and winding around over it , which was rivers . 
But I had to give in now that the widder was right . 
He says something like this Idiots ! They said it wouldn't go and they wanted to examine it , and spy around and get the secret of it out of me . 
Nobody knows the secret but me . 
To Europe ! Why , there's power aboard to last five years , and feed for three months . 
They are fools ! What do they know about it ? Yes , and they said my air ship was flimsy . 
Couldn't steer ! Come here , boy we'll see . 
You press these buttons as I tell you . 
He made Tom steer the ship all about and every which way , and learnt him the whole thing in nearly no time and Tom said it was perfectly easy . 
Tom got so he could steer straight for a tree till he got nearly to it , and then dart up and skin right along over the top of it . 
Yes , and he showed Tom how to land her and he done it first rate , too , and set her down in the prairies as soft as wool . 
But the minute we started to skip out the professor says , No , you don't ! and shot her up in the air again . 
He scoffed at that , and at their saying she warn't simple and would be always getting out of order . 
Get out of order ! That graveled him he said that she couldn't any more get out of order than the solar sister . 
He got worse and worse , and I never see a person take on so . 
It give me the cold shivers to see him , and so it did Jim . 
By and by he got to yelling and screaming , and then he swore the world shouldn't ever have his secret at all now , it had treated him so mean . 
The night dragged along slow and lonesome . 
Better slip back there and tie him , and land the ship , he says . 
I says No , sir ! Don' you budge , Tom Sawyer . 
And Jim well , Jim was kind o' gasping , he was so scared . 
He says Oh , Mars Tom , DON'T ! Ef you teches him , we's gone we's gone sho' ! I ain't gwine anear him , not for nothin' in dis worl' . 
Mars Tom , he's plumb crazy . 
Tom whispers and says That's WHY we've got to do something . 
But it's no good politics , sailing around like this with a person that's out of his head , and says he's going round the world and then drown us all . 
We've GOT to do something , I tell you , and do it before he wakes up , too , or we mayn't ever get another chance . 
Come ! But it made us turn cold and creepy just to think of it , and we said we wouldn't budge . 
So Tom was for slipping back there by himself to see if he couldn't get at the steering gear and land the ship . 
After he got to the middle of the boat he crept slower than ever , and it did seem like years to me . 
But at last we see him get to the professor's head , and sort of raise up soft and look a good spell in his face and listen . 
Then we see him begin to inch along again toward the professor's feet where the steering buttons was . 
Then a cloud slid over the moon , and I 'most cried , I was so glad . 
She buried herself deeper and deeper into the cloud , and it got so dark we couldn't see Tom . 
Then it began to sprinkle rain , and we could hear the professor fussing at his ropes and things and abusing the weather . 
Well , I got my wish . 
Next , the sun come a blazing up gay and splendid , and then we began to feel rusty and stretchy , and first we knowed we was all asleep . 
TOM EXPLAINS WE went to sleep about four o'clock , and woke up about eight . 
The professor was setting back there at his end , looking glum . 
He pitched us some breakfast , but he told us not to come abaft the midship compass . 
That was about the middle of the boat . 
Well , when you are sharp set , and you eat and satisfy yourself , everything looks pretty different from what it done before . 
It makes a body feel pretty near com fortable , even when he is up in a balloon with a genius . 
We got to talking together . 
There was one thing that kept bothering me , and by and by I says Tom , didn't we start east ? Yes . 
How fast have we been going ? Well , you heard what the professor said when he was raging round . 
Well , then , it's just as I reckoned . 
Why ? Because if we was going so fast we ought to be past Illinois , oughtn't we ? Certainly . 
What's the reason we ain't ? I know by the color . 
We're right over Illinois yet . 
And you can see for yourself that Indiana ain't in sight . 
I wonder what's the matter with you , Huck . 
You know by the COLOR ? Yes , of course I do . 
What's the color got to do with it ? It's got everything to do with it . 
Illinois is green , Indiana is pink . 
You show me any pink down here , if you can . 
No , sir it's green . 
Indiana PINK ? Why , what a lie ! It ain't no lie I've seen it on the map , and it's pink . 
You never see a person so aggravated and disgusted . 
He says Well , if I was such a numbskull as you , Huck Finn , I would jump over . 
Well , then , how's it going to do that if it tells lies ? That's what I want to know . 
Shucks , you muggins ! It don't tell lies . 
It don't , don't it ? No , it don't . 
All right , then if it don't , there ain't no two States the same color . 
You git around THAT if you can , Tom Sawyer . 
He see I had him , and Jim see it too and I tell you , I felt pretty good , for Tom Sawyer was always a hard person to git ahead of . 
Jim slapped his leg and says I tell YOU ! dat's smart , dat's right down smart . 
Why , it was just as much a surprise to me as it was to any of them . 
You can see the difference easy if you think it over . 
You see , an accident , that way , ain't fairly as big a thing as a thing that's done a purpose . 
Anybody could find that di'mond in that corn pone but mind you , it's got to be somebody that's got THAT KIND OF A CORN PONE . 
That's where that feller's credit comes in , you see and that's where mine comes in . 
I don't claim no great things I don't reckon I could 'a' done it again but I done it that time that's all I claim . 
And I hadn't no more idea I could do such a thing , and warn't any more thinking about it or trying to , than you be this minute . 
Why , I was just as ca'm , a body couldn't be any ca'mer , and yet , all of a sudden , out it come . 
I've often thought of that time , and I can remember just the way everything looked , same as if it was only last week . 
And we left the bird and the train both behind , 'WAY behind , and done it easy , too . 
Well , then , do you want him to go and paint BOTH of them brown ? Certainly you don't . 
He paints one of them blue , and then you can't make no mistake . 
It's just the same with the maps . 
That's why they make every State a different color it ain't to deceive you , it's to keep you from deceiving yourself . 
But I couldn't see no argument about that , and neither could Jim . 
I's gwine to tell you , den you kin see for you'self . 
En I ast him what he's paintin' her for , en he say when he git her painted , de picture's wuth a hundred dollars . 
Mars Tom , he could a got de cow fer fifteen , en I tole him so . 
Well , sah , if you'll b'lieve me , he jes' shuck his head , dat painter did , en went on a dobbin' . 
Bless you , Mars Tom , DEY don't know nothin' . 
I notice a person 'most always does that's got laid out in an argument . 
He told us to shut up , and maybe we'd feel better . 
So he put up his turnip . 
Then he see another clock , and took a look , and it was an hour fast too . 
That's a mighty curious thing , he says . 
Then he took the glass and hunted up another clock , and sure enough it was an hour fast too . 
Tom Sawyer , you don't mean it ! Yes , I do , and it's dead sure . 
We've covered about fifteen degrees of longitude since we left St . 
Louis yesterday afternoon , and them clocks are right . 
We've come close on to eight hundred miles . 
I didn't believe it , but it made the cold streaks trickle down my back just the same . 
In my experi ence I knowed it wouldn't take much short of two weeks to do it down the Mississippi on a raft . 
Jim was working his mind and studying . 
Pretty soon he says Mars Tom , did you say dem clocks uz right ? Yes , they're right . 
Ain't yo' watch right , too ? She's right for St . 
Louis , but she's an hour wrong for here . 
Mars Tom , is you tryin' to let on dat de time ain't de SAME everywheres ? No , it ain't the same everywheres , by a long shot . 
Yassir , it'd break yo' Aunt Polly's heart to hear you . 
He looked Jim over wonder ing , and didn't say nothing , and Jim went on Mars Tom , who put de people out yonder in St . 
Louis ? De Lord done it . 
Who put de people here whar we is ? De Lord done it . 
Ain' dey bofe his children ? 'Cose dey is . 
WELL , den ! is he gwine to SCRIMINATE 'twixt 'em ? Scriminate ! I never heard such ignorance . 
There ain't no discriminating about it . 
When he makes you and some more of his children black , and makes the rest of us white , what do you call that ? Jim see the p'int . 
Tom says He does discriminate , you see , when he wants to but this case HERE ain't no discrimination of his , it's man's . 
The Lord made the day , and he made the night but he didn't invent the hours , and he didn't distribute them around . 
Mars Tom , is dat so ? Man done it ? Certainly . 
Who tole him he could ? Nobody . 
Jim studied a minute , and says Well , dat do beat me . 
I wouldn't 'a' tuck no sich resk . 
But some people ain't scared o' nothin' . 
Dey bangs right ahead DEY don't care what happens . 
So den dey's allays an hour's diff'unce everywhah , Mars Tom ? An hour ? No ! It's four minutes difference for every degree of longitude , you know . 
Fifteen of 'em's an hour , thirty of 'em's two hours , and so on . 
When it's one clock Tuesday morning in England , it's eight o'clock the night before in New York . 
Jim moved a little way along the locker , and you could see he was insulted . 
Yes , en even den you couldn't , I don't believe . 
Jim shivered again , and says Den dat Monday could be de las' day , en dey wouldn't be no las' day in England , en de dead wouldn't be called . 
We mustn't go over dah , Mars Tom . 
Please git him to turn back I wants to be whah All of a sudden we see something , and all jumped up , and forgot everything and begun to gaze . 
Then we all stood petrified but happy , for none of us had ever seen an ocean , or ever expected to . 
Tom kept muttering Atlantic Ocean Atlantic . 
STORM AND it got lonesomer and lonesomer . 
There was the big sky up there , empty and awful deep and the ocean down there without a thing on it but just the waves . 
We was racing along like a prairie fire , but it never made any difference , we couldn't seem to git past that center no way . 
I couldn't see that we ever gained an inch on that ring . 
It made a body feel creepy , it was so curious and unaccountable . 
Then he ciphered a little and looked in a book , and then he begun to carry on again . 
We said we would be humbly thankful . 
Then he says You want to leave me . 
Don't try to deny it . 
We didn't know what to say , so we held in and didn't say nothing at all . 
He went aft and set down , but he couldn't seem to git that thing out of his mind . 
Every now and then he would rip out something about it , and try to make us answer him , but we dasn't . 
It got lonesomer and lonesomer right along , and it did seem to me I couldn't stand it . 
It was still worse when night begun to come on . 
By and by Tom pinched me and whispers Look ! I took a glance aft , and see the professor taking a whet out of a bottle . 
I didn't like the looks of that . 
By and by he took another drink , and pretty soon he begun to sing . 
It was dark now , and getting black and stormy . 
He went on singing , wilder and wilder , and the thunder begun to mutter , and the wind to wheeze and moan among the ropes , and altogether it was awful . 
It got so black we couldn't see him any more , and wished we couldn't hear him , but we could . 
Then he got still but he warn't still ten minutes till we got suspicious , and wished he would start up his noise again , so we could tell where he was . 
By and by there was a flash of lightning , and we see him start to get up , but he staggered and fell down . 
We heard him scream out in the dark They don't want to go to England . 
All right , I'll change the course . 
They want to leave me . 
Well , they shall and NOW ! I 'most died when he said that . 
Then he was still again still so long I couldn't bear it , and it did seem to me the lightning wouldn't EVER come again . 
But at last there was a blessed flash , and there he was , on his hands and knees crawling , and not four feet from us . 
There was another long , horrible wait then there was a flash , and I see Tom's head sink down outside the boat and disappear . 
He was on the rope ladder that dangled down in the air from the gunnel . 
When it come I see Jim on his knees , with his arms on the locker and his face buried in them , and he was crying . 
Before I could look over the edge it was all dark again , and I was glad , because I didn't want to see . 
I shouts No , he's down in the ocean ! Come up ! Can we help you ? Of course , all this in the dark . 
Huck , who is you hollerin' at ? I'm hollerin' at Tom . 
He thought it was Tom's ghost , you see . 
Says I What did you wait for , Tom ? Why didn't you come up at first ? I dasn't , Huck . 
I knowed somebody plunged down past me , but I didn't know who it was in the dark . 
It could 'a' been you , it could 'a' been Jim . 
That was the way with Tom Sawyer always sound . 
He warn't coming up till he knowed where the pro fessor was . 
There was plenty of clothes and blankets and everything at the other end , but we thought we'd ruther take the rain than go meddling back there . 
CHAPTER V. LAND WE tried to make some plans , but we couldn't come to no agreement . 
The sea was sparkling like di'monds , and it was nice weather , and pretty soon our things was all dry again . 
We went aft to find some breakfast , and the first thing we noticed was that there was a dim light burning in a compass back there under a hood . 
He says You know what that means , easy enough . 
Well , I says , what's she been doing since er since we had the accident ? Wandering , he says , kinder troubled wander ing , without any doubt . 
She's in a wind now that's blowing her south of east . 
We don't know how long that's been going on , either . 
So then he p'inted her east , and said he would hold her there till we rousted out the breakfast . 
The pro fessor had laid in everything a body could want he couldn't 'a' been better fixed . 
There was money , too . 
Yes , the professor was well enough fixed . 
I says Tom Sawyer , this ain't no welkin , it's a balloon . 
Well , now , who SAID it was a welkin , smarty ? You've wrote it on the letter , anyway . 
What of it ? That don't mean that the balloon's the welkin . 
Oh , I thought it did . 
Well , then , what is a welkin ? I see in a minute he was stuck . 
He raked and scraped around in his mind , but he couldn't find noth ing , so he had to say I don't know , and nobody don't know . 
It's just a word , and it's a mighty good word , too . 
There ain't many that lays over it . 
I don't believe there's ANY that does . 
But what does it MEAN ? that's the p'int . 
I don't know what it means , I tell you . 
It's a word that people uses for for well , it's orna mental . 
They don't put ruffles on a shirt to keep a person warm , do they ? Course they don't . 
But they put them ON , don't they ? Yes . 
All right , then that letter I wrote is a shirt , and the welkin's the ruffle on it . 
I judged that that would gravel Jim , and it did . 
Now , Mars Tom , it ain't no use to talk like dat en , moreover , it's sinful . 
You knows a letter ain't no shirt , en dey ain't no ruffles on it , nuther . 
Dey ain't no place to put 'em on you can't put em on , and dey wouldn't stay ef you did . 
Oh DO shut up , and wait till something's started that you know something about . 
I only Why , Mars Tom , you said yo'self dat a letter Do you want to drive me crazy ? Keep still . 
I only used it as a metaphor . 
That word kinder bricked us up for a minute . 
He see THAT didn't git home , so he tried again . 
When I say birds of a feather flocks together , it's a metaphorical way of saying But dey DON'T , Mars Tom . 
No , sir , 'deed dey don't . 
Now don't bother me any more . 
Jim was satisfied to stop . 
He was dreadful pleased with himself for catching Tom out . 
The minute Tom begun to talk about birds I judged he was a goner , because Jim knowed more about birds than both of us put together . 
You see , he had killed hundreds and hundreds of them , and that's the way to find out about birds . 
But I was aggravated about that welkin . 
I got the subject up again , and then Tom explained , the best he could . 
He said when a person made a big speech the newspapers said the shouts of the people made the welkin ring . 
He said they always said that , but none of them ever told what it was , so he allowed it just meant outdoors and up high . 
Well , that seemed sensible enough , so I was satisfied , and said so . 
That pleased Tom and put him in a good humor again , and he says Well , it's all right , then and we'll let bygones be bygones . 
I don't know for certain what a welkin is , but when we land in London we'll make it ring , anyway , and don't you forget it . 
But we couldn't see nothing but ocean . 
The afternoon wasted out and the sun shut down , and still there warn't no land any wheres . 
We didn't know how long we'd been over it . 
There warn't no trees , nor hills , nor rocks , nor towns , and Tom and Jim had took it for the sea . 
He said it warn't his notion of England he thought England looked like America , and always had that idea . 
So he said we better have breakfast , and then drop down and inquire the quickest way to London . 
We cut the breakfast pretty short , we was so impatient . 
As we slanted along down , the weather began to moderate , and pretty soon we shed our furs . 
But it kept ON moder ating , and in a precious little while it was 'most too moderate . 
Next , we see somebody coming , and started to meet him but we heard Jim shout , and looked around and he was fairly dancing , and making signs , and yelling . 
We couldn't make out what he said , but we was scared anyway , and begun to heel it back to the balloon . 
He's bu'sted outen de menagerie , en dey ain't nobody to stop him ! It made Tom fly , but it took the stiffening all out of my legs . 
I could only just gasp along the way you do in a dream when there's a ghost gaining on you . 
Tom got to the ladder and shinned up it a piece and waited for me and as soon as I got a foothold on it he shouted to Jim to soar away . 
But Jim had clean lost his head , and said he had forgot how . 
It is most seldom that a person feels so mixed like that and it is not to be recommended , either . 
Tom asked me what he'd better do , but I didn't know . 
He asked me if I could hold on whilst he sailed away to a safe place and left the lion behind . 
I said I could if he didn't go no higher than he was now but if he went higher I would lose my head and fall , sure . 
So he said , Take a good grip , and he started . 
Don't go so fast , I shouted . 
It makes my head swim . 
He had started like a lightning express . 
But pretty soon there was plenty of sound , for the lion was catching up . 
We see this plan was a mistake . 
We couldn't ever git away from them at this gait , and I couldn't hold on forever . 
So Tom took a think , and struck another idea . 
That was , to kill a lion with the pepper box revolver , and then sail away while the others stopped to fight over the carcass . 
But a body couldn't get back his strength in no such oven as that , so Tom give the command to soar , and Jim started her aloft . 
We had to go up a mile before we struck comfort able weather where it was breezy and pleasant and just right , and pretty soon I was all straight again . 
Tom had been setting quiet and thinking but now he jumps up and says I bet you a thousand to one I know where we are . 
We're in the Great Sahara , as sure as guns ! He was so excited he couldn't hold still but I wasn't . 
I says Well , then , where's the Great Sahara ? In Eng land or in Scotland ? 'Tain't in either it's in Africa . 
I couldn't , you know it seemed too awful far away for us to have traveled . 
But Tom was full of his discovery , as he called it , and said the lions and the sand meant the Great Desert , sure . 
You al ways read about them in sea voyages . 
One of them is keeping Grinnage time , and the other is keeping St . 
Louis time , like my watch . 
Louis it was four in the afternoon by my watch and this clock , and it was ten at night by this Grinnage clock . 
Well , at this time of the year the sun sets at about seven o'clock . 
You see , the sun rose and set by my watch in St . 
You see , that meant that we was closing up on the longitude of Ireland , and would strike it before long if we was p'inted right which we wasn't . 
No , sir , we've been a wandering wandering 'way down south of east , and it's my opinion we are in Africa . 
You see how the shoulder of Africa sticks out to the west . 
Think how fast we've traveled if we had gone straight east we would be long past England by this time . 
Yes , sir , I think we're in Africa and it's just bully . 
Jim was gazing down with the glass . 
He shook his head and says Mars Tom , I reckon dey's a mistake som'er's . 
hain't seen no niggers yit . 
That's nothing they don't live in the desert . 
What is that , 'way off yonder ? Gimme a glass . 
He took a long look , and said it was like a black string stretched across the sand , but he couldn't guess what it was . 
Of course they're on the map , but that's nothing there ain't any on the GROUND . 
Tom , do you know that to be so ? Certainly I do . 
Well , then , that map's a liar again . 
I never see such a liar as that map . 
Spiders in a desert , you shad ? Spiders walking in a procession ? You don't ever reflect , Huck Finn , and I reckon you really haven't got anything to reflect WITH . 
But they're camels , just the same . 
It's a caravan , that's what it is , and it's a mile long . 
Well , then , let's go down and look at it . 
I don't believe in it , and ain't going to till I see it and know it . 
All right , he says , and give the command Lower away . 
And the weatherJ well , it was just roasting . 
And how slow they did creep along ! We swooped down now , all of a sudden , and stopped about a hundred yards over their heads . 
We see that we was making trouble , so we went up again about a mile , to the cool weather , and watched them from there . 
There must 'a' been six hundred men in that battle , and it was terrible to see . 
At last the robbers see they couldn't win , so their chief sounded a signal , and all that was left of them broke away and went scampering across the plain . 
The man went staggering off to overtake his horse , and didn't know what had hit him , for we was three or four hundred yards up in the air by this time . 
We judged the woman would go and get the child now but she didn't . 
We thought we'd chance it , and we did . 
And there she stood , as long as we was in sight a sailing away in the sky . 
TOM RESPECTS THE FLEA NOON ! says Tom , and so it was . 
His shadder was just a blot around his feet . 
We looked , and the Grinnage clock was so close to twelve the difference didn't amount to nothing . 
No , I reckon dat won't do , nuther , he ain't big enough for a' animal . 
He mus' be a bug . 
Yassir , dat's what he is , he's a bug . 
I bet he ain't , but let it go . 
What's your second place ? Well , in de second place , birds is creturs dat goes a long ways , but a flea don't . 
He don't , don't he ? Come , now , what IS a long distance , if you know ? Why , it's miles , and lots of 'em anybody knows dat . 
Can't a man walk miles ? Yassir , he kin . 
As many as a railroad ? Yassir , if you give him time . 
Can't a flea ? Well I s'pose so ef you gives him heaps of time . 
Well , suppose a man could go fifteen hundred times his own length in a second say , a mile and a half . 
It's ninety miles a minute it's considerable more than five thousand miles an hour . 
Where's your man NOW ? yes , and your bird , and your railroad , and your balloon ? Laws , they don't amount to shucks 'longside of a flea . 
A flea is just a comet b'iled down small . 
Well , den , honey , a body's got to respec' a flea . 
I ain't had no respec' for um befo' , sca'sely , but dey ain't no gittin' roun' it , dey do deserve it , dat's certain . 
Well , I bet they do . 
They've got ever so much more sense , and brains , and brightness , in proportion to their size , than any other cretur in the world . 
A person can learn them 'most anything and they learn it quicker than any other cretur , too . 
They've been learnt to do all sorts of hard and troublesome things . 
My lan' , Mars Tom , I never knowed dey was so much TO de beas' . 
No , sir , I never had no idea of it , and dat's de fac' . 
There's more to him , by a long sight , than there is to any other cretur , man or beast , in proportion to size . 
He's the interestingest of them all . 
People have so much to say about an ant's strength , and an ele phant's , and a locomotive's . 
Shucks , they don't begin with a flea . 
He can lift two or three hundred times his own weight . 
And none of them can come anywhere near it . 
People think all humans are alike to a flea . 
There's folks that he won't go near , hungry or not hungry , and I'm one of them . 
I've never had one of them on me in my life . 
Mars Tom ! It's so I ain't joking . 
Well , sah , I hain't ever heard de likes o' dat befo' . 
Jim couldn't believe it , and I couldn't so we had to drop down to the sand and git a supply and see . 
They went for me and Jim by the thou sand , but not a one of them lit on Tom . 
There warn't no explaining it , but there it was and there warn't no getting around it . 
He said it had always been just so , and he'd just as soon be where there was a million of them as not they'd never touch him nor bother him . 
It didn't seem like we was the same lot that was in such a state to find land and git ashore , but it was . 
But we had got over that clean over it . 
We was used to the balloon now and not afraid any more , and didn't want to be anywheres else . 
Why , it seemed just like home it 'most seemed as if I had been born and raised in it , and Jim and Tom said the same . 
Land , I warn't in no hurry to git out and buck at civilization again . 
Well , up in a balloon there ain't any of that , and it's the darlingest place there is . 
We had supper , and that night was one of the prettiest nights I ever see . 
That's the kind of moon light to have . 
Mainly we laid on our backs and talked we didn't want to go to sleep . 
Tom said we was right in the midst of the Arabian Nights now . 
Had he lost an upper front tooth ? Yes . 
Was his off hind leg lame ? Yes . 
Where did you see him ? I hain't seen him at all , the man says . 
I knowed a camel had been along , because I seen his track . 
I knowed he was lame in his off hind leg because he had favored that foot and trod light on it , and his track showed it . 
I knowed he was blind on his left side because he only nibbled the grass on the right side of the trail . 
I knowed he had lost an upper front tooth because where he bit into the sod his teeth print showed it . 
The millet seed sifted out on one side the ants told me that the honey leaked out on the other the flies told me that . 
I know all about your camel , but I hain't seen him . 
Jim says Go on , Mars Tom , hit's a mighty good tale , and powerful interestin' . 
That's all , Tom says . 
ALL ? says Jim , astonished . 
What 'come o' de camel ? I don't know . 
Mars Tom , don't de tale say ? No. Jim puzzled a minute , then he says Well ! Ef dat ain't de beatenes' tale ever I struck . 
Jist gits to de place whah de intrust is gittin' red hot , en down she breaks . 
Why , Mars Tom , dey ain't no SENSE in a tale dat acts like dat . 
Hain't you got no IDEA whether de man got de camel back er not ? No , I haven't . 
Let alone a camel , if a cyclone had gone by , YOU duffers wouldn't 'a' noticed the track . 
We'd spotted the soft place in that tale sharp enough , he couldn't git away from that little fact . 
It graveled him like the nation , too , I reckon , much as he tried not to let on . 
We shut off the power , and backed up and stood over them , and then we see that they was all dead . 
It give us the cold shivers . 
And it made us hush down , too , and talk low , like people at a funeral . 
We dropped down slow and stopped , and me and Tom clumb down and went among them . 
There was men , and women , and children . 
They was dried by the sun and dark and shriveled and leathery , like the pictures of mummies you see in books . 
And yet they looked just as human , you wouldn't 'a' believed it just like they was asleep . 
Some of the people and animals was partly covered with sand , but most of them not , for the sand was thin there , and the bed was gravel and hard . 
Most of the clothes had rotted away and when you took hold of a rag , it tore with a touch , like spider web . 
Tom reckoned they had been laying there for years . 
Some of the men had rusty guns by them , some had swords on and had shawl belts with long , silver mounted pistols stuck in them . 
All the camels had their loads on yet , but the packs had busted or rotted and spilt the freight out on the ground . 
We didn't reckon the swords was any good to the dead people any more , so we took one apiece , and some pistols . 
We wondered , and reasoned , and tried to guess how they come to be there , and how it all hap pened to them , but we couldn't make it out . 
So at last we give it up , and judged we wouldn't think about it no more , because it made us low spirited . 
So we went on but I wished we had took all they had , so there wouldn't 'a' been no temptation at all left . 
We had had two hours of that blazing weather down there , and was dreadful thirsty when we got aboard again . 
We went straight for the water , but it was spoiled and bitter , besides being pretty near hot enough to scald your mouth . 
Why , in a little while we wanted to hold our mouths open and pant like a dog . 
Tom said to keep a sharp lookout , all around , every wheres , because we'd got to find an oasis or there warn't no telling what would happen . 
We kept the glasses gliding around all the time , till our arms got so tired we couldn't hold them any more . 
Two hours three hours just gazing and gazing , and nothing but sand , sand , SAND , and you could see the quivering heat shimmer playing over it . 
At last I couldn't stand it to look around on them baking plains I laid down on the locker , and give it up . 
I never see anything look so good . 
I didn't see nothing to be glad about . 
Tom says What's BECOME of it ? Why , you see yourself it's gone . 
What is it ? It ain't anything but imagination . 
There ain't anything TO it . 
I don't think nothing about it , I DID see it . 
I tell you you DIDN'T see it either because it warn't there to see . 
You ain't only reskin' yo' own self , but you's reskin' us same way like Anna Nias en Siffra . 
De lake WUZ dah I seen it jis' as plain as I sees you en Huck dis minute . 
I says Why , he seen it himself ! He was the very one that seen it first . 
NOW , then ! Yes , Mars Tom , hit's so you can't deny it . 
We all seen it , en dat PROVE it was dah . 
Proves it ! How does it prove it ? Same way it does in de courts en everywheres , Mars Tom . 
Dey ain't no gittin' aroun' dat , en you knows it , Mars Tom . 
I don't know nothing of the kind . 
There used to be forty thousand million people that seen the sun move from one side of the sky to the other every day . 
Did that prove that the sun DONE it ? Course it did . 
En besides , dey warn't no 'casion to prove it . 
A body 'at's got any sense ain't gwine to doubt it . 
Dah she is now a sailin' thoo de sky , like she allays done . 
It warn't fair play , and I let him know it . 
I says Throwin' mud ain't arguin' , Tom Sawyer . 
Oh , my goodness , oh , my goodness gracious , dah's de lake agi'n ! yelled Jim , just then . 
I says I reckon you're satisfied now , Tom Sawyer . 
But he says , perfectly ca'm Yes , satisfied there ain't no lake there . 
Jim says DON'T talk so , Mars Tom it sk'yers me to hear you . 
It's so hot , en you's so thirsty , dat you ain't in yo' right mine , Mars Tom . 
Oh , but don't she look good ! 'clah I doan' know how I's gwine to wait tell we gits dah , I's SO thirsty . 
Well , you'll have to wait and it won't do you no good , either , because there ain't no lake there , I tell you . 
I says Jim , don't you take your eye off of it , and I won't , either . 
'Deed I won't en bless you , honey , I couldn't ef I wanted to . 
Dey's BEEN a lake , en suthin's happened , en de lake's dead , en we's seen its ghos' we's seen it twiste , en dat's proof . 
Ghost , you gander ! It ain't anything but air and heat and thirstiness pasted together by a person's imagination . 
If I gimme the glass ! He grabbed it and begun to gaze off to the right . 
It's a flock of birds , he says . 
It's getting toward sundown , and they're making a bee line across our track for somewheres . 
They mean business maybe they're going for food or water , or both . 
Let her go to starboard ! Port your hellum ! Hard down ! There ease up steady , as you go . 
We shut down some of the power , so as not to out speed them , and took out after them . 
Jim got the first glimpse , and slumped down on the locker sick . 
I wisht I'd never come in dis balloon , dat I does . 
Both of us begged Tom to turn off and go some other way , but he wouldn't , and said we was ignorant superstitious blatherskites . 
Yes , and he'll git come up with , one of these days , I says to myself , insulting ghosts that way . 
So we was all quiet and still , Jim and me being scared , and Tom busy . 
By and by Tom fetched the balloon to a standstill , and says NOW get up and look , you sapheads . 
Jim DID cry , and rip and dance and carry on , he was so thankful and out of his mind for joy . 
It warn't so very hot , because it was close on to evening , and we hadn't any clothes on , anyway . 
And when they got done , some was dead . 
As for the clothes , they warn't any , any more . 
TOM DISCOURSES ON THE DESERT STILL , we thought we would drop down there a minute , but on another errand . 
Most of the pro fessor's cargo of food was put up in cans , in the new way that somebody had just invented the rest was fresh . 
When you fetch Missouri beefsteak to the Great Sahara , you want to be particular and stay up in the coolish weather . 
So we reckoned we would drop down into the lion market and see how we could make out there . 
We had to keep the congregation off with the revolver , or they would 'a' took a hand in the proceed ings and helped . 
We carved off a supply from both , and saved the skins , and hove the rest overboard . 
Then we baited some of the professor's hooks with the fresh meat and went a fishing . 
We stood over the lake just a con venient distance above the water , and catched a lot of the nicest fish you ever see . 
It was a most amazing good supper we had lion steak , tiger steak , fried fish , and hot corn pone . 
I don't want nothing better than that . 
We had some fruit to finish off with . 
We got it out of the top of a monstrous tall tree . 
It was a very slim tree that hadn't a branch on it from the bottom plumb to the top , and there it bursted out like a feather duster . 
It was a pa'm tree , of course anybody knows a pa'm tree the minute he see it , by the pictures . 
We went for cocoanuts in this one , but there warn't none . 
Of course they mightn't be , and they might be poison so we had to wait a spell , and watch and see if the birds et them . 
They done it so we done it , too , and they was most amaz ing good . 
By this time monstrous big birds begun to come and settle on the dead animals . 
They was plucky creturs they would tackle one end of a lion that was being gnawed at the other end by another lion . 
If the lion drove the bird away , it didn't do no good he was back again the minute the lion was busy . 
Tom said the birds didn't find out the meat was there by the smell they had to find it out by seeing it . 
It was strange and unnatural to see lion eat lion , and we thought maybe they warn't kin . 
But Jim said that didn't make no difference . 
He said a hog was fond of her own children , and so was a spider , and he reckoned maybe a lion was pretty near as unprincipled though maybe not quite . 
But RECKONING don't settle nothing . 
You can reckon till the cows come home , but that don't fetch you to no decision . 
So we give it up and let it drop . 
Generly it was very still in the Desert nights , but this time there was music . 
They made a picture in the moonlight that was more different than any picture I ever see . 
We was going to leave the next day , but couldn't , it was too lovely . 
Jim was thinking to himself , and at last he says Mars Tom , we's mos' to de end er de Desert now , I speck . 
Why ? Well , hit stan' to reason we is . 
You knows how long we's been a skimmin' over it . 
Mus' be mos' out o' san' . 
Hit's a wonder to me dat it's hilt out as long as it has . 
Shucks , there's plenty sand , you needn't worry . 
Oh , I ain't a worryin' , Mars Tom , only wonderin' , dat's all . 
Oh , go 'long ! we ain't much more than fairly STARTED across this Desert yet . 
The United States is a pretty big country , ain't it ? Ain't it , Huck ? Yes , I says , there ain't no bigger one , I don't reckon . 
There'd be a little corner sticking out , up at Maine and away up north west , and Florida sticking out like a turtle's tail , and that's all . 
I say Good land ! have you got the documents for that , Tom Sawyer ? Yes , and they're right here , and I've been study ing them . 
You can look for yourself . 
From New York to the Pacific is , miles . 
From one end of the Great Desert to the other is , . 
The United States contains , , square miles , the Desert contains , , . 
Well , I says , it clean beats me . 
Why , Tom , it shows that the Lord took as much pains makin' this Desert as makin' the United States and all them other countries . 
Jim says Huck , dat don' stan' to reason . 
I reckon dis Desert wa'n't made at all . 
Now you take en look at it like dis you look at it , and see ef I's right . 
What's a desert good for ? 'Taint good for nuthin' . 
Dey ain't no way to make it pay . 
Hain't dat so , Huck ? Yes , I reckon . 
Hain't it so , Mars Tom ? I guess so . 
Ef a thing ain't no good , it's made in vain , ain't it ? Yes . 
NOW , den ! Do de Lord make anything in vain ? You answer me dat . 
Well no , He don't . 
Den how come He make a desert ? Well , go on . 
How DID He come to make it ? Mars Tom , I b'lieve it uz jes like when you's buildin' a house dey's allays a lot o' truck en rubbish lef' over . 
What does you do wid it ? Doan' you take en k'yart it off en dump it into a ole vacant back lot ? 'Course . 
Now , den , it's my opinion hit was jes like dat dat de Great Sahara warn't made at all , she jes HAPPEN' . 
I said it was a real good argument , and I believed it was the best one Jim ever made . 
And he says There's another trouble about theories there's always a hole in them somewheres , sure , if you look close enough . 
It's just so with this one of Jim's . 
Look what billions and billions of stars there is . 
What's de Milky Way ? Answer me dat ! In my opinion it was just a sockdologer . 
It's only an opinion , it's only MY opinion and others may think different but I said it then and I stand to it now it was a sockdologer . 
And moreover , besides , it landed Tom Sawyer . 
He couldn't say a word . 
He had that stunned look of a person that's been shot in the back with a kag of nails . 
All he said was , as for people like me and Jim , he'd just as soon have intellectual intercourse with a catfish . 
But anybody can say that and I notice they always do , when somebody has fetched them a lifter . 
Tom Sawyer was tired of that end of the subject . 
And so , hunt ing among the figgers , Tom found , by and by , that it was just the same size as the Empire of China . 
Then he showed us the spread the Empire of China made on the map , and the room she took up in the world . 
Well , it was wonderful to think of , and I says Why , I've heard talk about this Desert plenty of times , but I never knowed before how important she was . 
Then Tom says Important ! Sahara important ! That's just the way with some people . 
If a thing's big , it's important . 
That's all the sense they've got . 
All they can see is SIZE . 
Why , look at England . 
It spreads all around and everywhere , and yet ain't no more im portant in this world than Rhode Island is , and hasn't got half as much in it that's worth saving . 
Away off now we see a little hill , a standing up just on the edge of the world . 
Tom broke off his talk , and reached for a glass very much excited , and took a look , and says That's it it's the one I've been looking for , sure . 
If I'm right , it's the one the dervish took the man into and showed him all the treasures . 
So we begun to gaze , and he begun to tell about it out of the Arabian Nights . 
CHAPTER X. THE TREASURE HILL TOM said it happened like this . 
But the camel driver he asked to be excused . 
The dervish said Don't you own these camels ? Yes , they're mine . 
Are you in debt ? Who me ? No. Well , a man that owns a hundred camels and ain't in debt is rich and not only rich , but very rich . 
Ain't it so ? The camel driver owned up that it was so . 
Then the dervish says God has made you rich , and He has made me poor . 
He has His reasons , and they are wise , blessed be His name . 
So the dervish starts along again , and says All right , if you want to take the risk but I reckon you've made a mistake this time , and missed a chance . 
Well , then , says the dervish , all right . 
If we load the hundred camels , can I have half of them ? The driver was so glad he couldn't hardly hold in , and says Now you're shouting . 
But pretty soon the camel driver come a running and overtook the dervish and says You ain't in society , you know , and you don't really need all you've got . 
Won't you be good , and let me have ten of your camels ? Well , the dervish says , I don't know but what you say is reasonable enough . 
So he done it , and they separated and the dervish started off again with his forty . 
But that warn't the end yet . 
That ornery hound kept coming and coming till he had begged back all the camels and had the whole hundred . 
So they shook hands good bye , and separated and started off again . 
But do you know , it warn't ten minutes till the camel driver was unsatisfied again he was the low downest reptyle in seven counties and he come a running again . 
And this time the thing he wanted was to get the dervish to rub some of the salve on his other eye . 
Why ? said the dervish . 
Oh , you know , says the driver . 
Know what ? Well , you can't fool me , says the driver . 
You're trying to keep back something from me , you know it mighty well . 
You know , I reckon , that if I had the salve on the other eye I could see a lot more things that's valuable . 
Come please put it on . 
The dervish says I wasn't keeping anything back from you . 
I don't mind telling you what would happen if I put it on . 
You'd be stone blind the rest of your days . 
But do you know that beat wouldn't believe him . 
No , he begged and begged , and whined and cried , till at last the dervish opened his box and told him to put it on , if he wanted to . 
So the man done it , and sure enough he was as blind as a bat in a minute . 
Then the dervish laughed at him and mocked at him and made fun of him and says Good bye a man that's blind hain't got no use for jewelry . 
And he cleared out with the hundred camels , and left that man to wander around poor and miserable and friendless the rest of his days in the Desert . 
Jim said he'd bet it was a lesson to him . 
Yes , Tom says , and like a considerable many lessons a body gets . 
They ain't no account , because the thing don't ever happen the same way again and can't . 
The time Hen Scovil fell down the chimbly and crippled his back for life , everybody said it would be a lesson to him . 
What kind of a lesson ? How was he going to use it ? He couldn't climb chimblies no more , and he hadn't no more backs to break . 
All de same , Mars Tom , dey IS sich a thing as learnin' by expe'ence . 
De Good Book say de burnt chile shun de fire . 
Well , I ain't denying that a thing's a lesson if it's a thing that can happen twice just the same way . 
And that is the curiosest thing in the world , seems to me . 
But you rake a match to light the candle , and that little bit of a noise will fetch him . 
I wish I knowed what was the reason of that , but there don't seem to be no way to find out . 
No , sir , I've thought it all over , and so has Tom , and there ain't no way to find out why a snorer can't hear himself snore . 
Jim said he hadn't been asleep he just shut his eyes so he could listen better . 
Tom said nobody warn't accusing him . 
That made him look like he wished he hadn't said anything . 
But Tom says I ain't so sure . 
You call that dervish so dreadful liberal and good and unselfish , but I don't quite see it . 
He didn't hunt up another poor dervish , did he ? No , he didn't . 
He wanted to get away with all the treasure he could . 
Why , Mars Tom , he was willin' to divide , fair and square he only struck for fifty camels . 
Because he knowed how he was going to get all of them by and by . 
Mars Tom , he TOLE de man de truck would make him bline . 
Yes , because he knowed the man's character . 
It was just the kind of a man he was hunting for a man that never believes in anybody's word or any body's honorableness , because he ain't got none of his own . 
I reckon there's lots of people like that dervish . 
They swindle , right and left , but they always make the other person SEEM to swindle himself . 
They keep inside of the letter of the law all the time , and there ain't no way to git hold of them . 
THEY don't put the salve on oh , no , that would be sin but they know how to fool YOU into putting it on , then it's you that blinds yourself . 
Mars Tom , does you reckon dey's any o' dat kind o' salve in de worl' now ? Yes , Uncle Abner says there is . 
Here's the treasure hill now . 
Still , it was plenty interesting enough , just to see the mere hill itself where such a wonderful thing happened . 
Jim said he wou'dn't 'a' missed it for three dollars , and I felt the same way . 
We talked and talked it over together , but couldn't make out how he done it . 
He had the best head on him I ever see and all he lacked was age , to make a name for himself equal to Captain Kidd or George Washington . 
You could see them as plain as if they was painted on the moon with ink . 
We cooled down our speed and tagged along after it , just to have company , though it warn't going our way . 
We never went very near it , because we knowed better now than to act like that and scare people's camels and break up their cara vans . 
It was the gayest outfit you ever see , for rich clothes and nobby style . 
The caravan camped , during the middle part of the day , and then started again about the middle of the afternoon . 
Before long the sun begun to look very curious . 
In five minutes the boat was level full , and we was setting on the lockers buried up to the chin in sand , and only our heads out and could hardly breathe . 
Then the storm thinned , and we see that monstrous wall go a sailing off across the desert , awful to look at , I tell you . 
We dug ourselves out and looked down , and where the caravan was before there wasn't any thing but just the sand ocean now , and all still and quiet . 
Tom said NOW we know what it was that happened to the people we got the swords and pistols from . 
Yes , sir , that was just it . 
It was as plain as day now . 
We was huvvering around them a whole night and 'most a whole day , and had got to feeling real friendly with them , and acquainted . 
I have found out that there ain't no surer way to find out whether you like people or hate them than to travel with them . 
We kind of liked them from the start , and traveling with them put on the finisher . 
Of course , it wasn't their own names , but names we give them . 
And you know the more you join in with people in their joys and their sorrows , the more nearer and dearer they come to be to you . 
When they camped , we camped right over them , ten or twelve hundred feet up in the air . 
When they et a meal , we et ourn , and it made it ever so much home liker to have their company . 
But it is sorrow and trouble that brings you the nearest , and it was a funeral that done it with us . 
It was next morning , just in the still dawn . 
Yes , parting with this caravan was much more bitterer than it was to part with them others , which was comparative strangers , and been dead so long , anyway . 
And it's terrible good ballast , too I never see the balloon so steady before . 
Tom allowed we had twenty tons of it , and wondered what we better do with it it was good sand , and it didn't seem good sense to throw it away . 
Jim says Mars Tom , can't we tote it back home en sell it ? How long'll it take ? Depends on the way we go . 
By jings , Mars Tom , le's shove for home right on de spot ! Hit's more'n a dollar en a half apiece , hain't it ? Yes . 
Well , ef dat ain't makin' money de easiest ever I struck ! She jes' rained in never cos' us a lick o' work . 
Le's mosey right along , Mars Tom . 
But Tom was thinking and ciphering away so busy and excited he never heard him . 
Pretty soon he says Five dollars sho ! Look here , this sand's worth worth why , it's worth no end of money . 
All we got to do is to put it up in vials and float around all over the United States and peddle them out at ten cents apiece . 
We've got all of ten thousand dollars' worth of sand in this boat . 
My goodness , I says , we'll be as rich as Creo sote , won't we , Tom ? Yes Creesus , you mean . 
Why , that dervish was hunting in that little hill for the treasures of the earth , and didn't know he was walking over the real ones for a thousand miles . 
He was blinder than he made the driver . 
Mars Tom , how much is we gwyne to be worth ? Well , I don't know yet . 
It's got to be ciphered , and it ain't the easiest job to do , either , because it's over four million square miles of sand at ten cents a vial . 
Jim was awful excited , but this faded it out consider able , and he shook his head and says Mars Tom , we can't 'ford all dem vials a king couldn't . 
We better not try to take de whole Desert , Mars Tom , de vials gwyne to bust us , sho' . 
Tom's excitement died out , too , now , and I reck oned it was on account of the vials , but it wasn't . 
He set there thinking , and got bluer and bluer , and at last he says Boys , it won't work we got to give it up . 
Why , Tom ? On account of the duties . 
I couldn't make nothing out of that , neither could Jim . 
I says What IS our duty , Tom ? Because if we can't git around it , why can't we just DO it ? People often has to . 
But he says Oh , it ain't that kind of duty . 
The kind I mean is a tax . 
They call it confiscating , but that don't deceive nobody , it's just hogging , and that's all it is . 
I never said nothing , and he went on Well , we're shut off the other way , too . 
Why ? Well , they can't raise Sahara sand in America , of course , and when they can't raise a thing there , the duty is fourteen hundred thousand per cent . 
on it if you try to fetch it in from where they do raise it . 
There ain't no sense in that , Tom Sawyer . 
All right , consider me crying about it , and sorry . 
Jim says Mars Tom , do dey jam dat duty onto everything we can't raise in America , en don't make no 'stinction 'twix' anything ? Yes , that's what they do . 
Mars Tom , ain't de blessin' o' de Lord de mos' valuable thing dey is ? Yes , it is . 
Don't de preacher stan' up in de pulpit en call it down on de people ? Yes . 
Whah do it come from ? From heaven . 
Yassir ! you's jes' right , 'deed you is , honey it come from heaven , en dat's a foreign country . 
NOW , den ! do dey put a tax on dat blessin' ? No , they don't . 
Course dey don't en so it stan' to reason dat you's mistaken , Mars Tom . 
Tom Sawyer was stumped he see Jim had got him where he couldn't budge . 
So he stuck to it that they'd left it out unintentional and would be certain to do their best to fix it before they got caught and laughed at . 
But I didn't feel no more interest in such things , as long as we couldn't git our sand through , and it made me low spirited , and Jim the same . 
The others was feeling the same way about it that I was . 
I knowed it , because they cheered up so , the minute I says le's throw this truck overboard . 
Well , it was going to be work , you know , and pretty solid work , too so Tom he divided it up according to fairness and strength . 
He said me and him would clear out a fifth apiece of the sand , and Jim three fifths . 
Jim he didn't quite like that arrangement . 
So Jim reckoned it wouldn't be no more than fair if me and Tom done a TENTH apiece . 
Then he turned around again and said it was a good enough arrangement , and we was satisfied if Jim was . 
Then we laid into it . 
It was mighty hot work , and tough so hot we had to move up into cooler weather or we couldn't 'a' stood it . 
At last when we got done we was 'most dead , but not with work but with laughing . 
He was always the gratefulest nigger I ever see , for any little thing you done for him . 
He was only nigger outside inside he was as white as you be . 
Then we struck the east end of the Desert at last , sailing on a northeast course . 
Away off on the edge of the sand , in a soft pinky light , we see three little sharp roofs like tents , and Tom says It's the pyramids of Egypt . 
It made my heart fairly jump . 
It's just so with George Washington , and the same with them pyramids . 
And moreover , besides , the thing they always said about them seemed to me to be stretchers . 
Thirteen acres , you see , for just one building it's a farm . 
If it hadn't been in Sunday school , I would 'a' judged it was a lie and outside I was certain of it . 
It made my heart jump again , for the Nile was another thing that wasn't real to me . 
It was just so with me , and the same with Jim . 
He was a Presbyterian , and had a most deep respect for Moses which was a Presbyterian , too , he said . 
Ole Jim ain't worthy to see dis day ! And then he just broke down and cried , he was so thankful . 
We went along a steady gait , but not very fast , and the fog got solider and solider , so solid that Jim looked dim and ragged and smoky through it . 
It was awful still , and we talked low and was anxious . 
Jim was on his knees with his hands clasped , gazing up at the thing in a begging way , and working his lips , but not getting anything out . 
It was stone , reddish stone , and its nose and ears battered , and that give it an abused look , and you felt sorrier for it for that . 
We stood off a piece , and sailed around it and over it , and it was just grand . 
It took a power of sand to bury that cretur most as much as it would to bury a steamboat , I reckon . 
That's the way perspective brings out the correct proportions , Tom said he said Julus Cesar's niggers didn't know how big he was , they was too close to him . 
That was the right place to stop , and we done it . 
and nobody can't find out what they are to this day . 
He done it , and says They're bugs . 
No hold on they why , I be lieve they're men . 
Yes , it's men men and horses both . 
We clapped on the power , and went for them a biling . 
We soared up and found him laying on top of the head panting and most tuckered out , partly from howling for help and partly from scare . 
He had been standing a siege a long time a week , HE said , but it warn't so , it only just seemed so to him because they was crowding him so . 
Tom was very indignant , and asked him why he didn't show the flag and command them to GIT , in the name of the United States . 
Jim said he done it , but they never paid no attention . 
Jim says What's an indemnity , Mars Tom ? It's cash , that's what it is . 
Who gits it , Mars Tom ? Why , WE do . 
En who gits de apology ? The United States . 
Or , we can take whichever we please . 
We can take the apology , if we want to , and let the gov'ment take the money . 
Well , den , we'll take de money , Mars Tom , blame de 'pology . 
It was a new business to me , and I asked Tom if countries always apologized when they had done wrong , and he says Yes the little ones does . 
The two other pyramids warn't far away , and the people moving about on the sand between looked like bugs crawling , we was so high above them . 
He said he couldn't scarcely believe he was standing on the very identical spot the prince flew from on the Bronze Horse . 
It was in the Arabian Night times , he said . 
I was embar rassed , Jim he was embarrassed , and neither of us couldn't say a word . 
Well , Tom he glowered at me a minute , and says Come , out with it . 
What do you think ? I says Tom Sawyer , YOU don't believe that , yourself . 
What's the reason I don't ? What's to hender me ? There's one thing to hender you it couldn't happen , that's all . 
What's the reason it couldn't happen ? You tell me the reason it COULD happen . 
This balloon is a good enough reason it could happen , I should reckon . 
WHY is it ? WHY is it ? I never saw such an idiot . 
Ain't this balloon and the bronze horse the same thing under different names ? No , they're not . 
One is a balloon and the other's a horse . 
Next you'll be saying a house and a cow is the same thing . 
By Jackson , Huck's got him ag'in ! Dey ain't no wigglin' outer dat ! Shut your head , Jim you don't know what you're talking about . 
Look here , Huck , I'll make it plain to you , so you can understand . 
You see , it ain't the mere FORM that's got anything to do with their being similar or unsimilar , it's the PRINCI PLE involved and the principle is the same in both . 
Don't you see , now ? I turned it over in my mind , and says Tom , it ain't no use . 
Shucks , Huck , you don't get the idea at all . 
Now look here a minute it's perfectly plain . 
Don't we fly through the air ? Yes . 
Don't we fly high or fly low , just as we please ? Yes . 
Don't we steer whichever way we want to ? Yes . 
And don't we land when and where we please ? Yes . 
How do we move the balloon and steer it ? By touching the buttons . 
NOW I reckon the thing is clear to you at last . 
In the other case the moving and steering was done by turning a peg . 
We touch a button , the prince turned a peg . 
There ain't an atom of difference , you see . 
I knowed I could git it through your head if I stuck to it long enough . 
He felt so happy he begun to whistle . 
Go ahead , he says , and I see Jim chirk up to listen . 
As I understand it , the whole thing is in the buttons and the peg the rest ain't of no consequence . 
What is the power that's in a candle and in a match ? It's the fire . 
It's the same in both , then ? Yes , just the same in both . 
Suppose I set fire to a carpenter shop with a match , what will happen to that carpenter shop ? She'll burn up . 
And suppose I set fire to this pyramid with a candle will she burn up ? Of course she won't . 
Now the fire's the same , both times . 
WHY does the shop burn , and the pyramid don't ? Because the pyramid CAN'T burn . 
I never said nothing I was feel ing pretty well satisfied . 
It's better to be generous , that's what I think . 
But I didn't take no interest in the place , because there could be ghosts there , of course not fresh ones , but I don't like no kind . 
And the city was a curiosity . 
I forgot , but a feller helped me to remember . 
He was one that had a rod and run in front . 
There was churches , but they don't know enough to keep Sunday they keep Friday and break the Sab bath . 
You have to take off your shoes when you go in . 
What I wanted to see was a dervish , because I was interested in dervishes on accounts of the one that played the trick on the camel driver . 
So we found a lot in a kind of a church , and they called themselves Whirling Dervishes and they did whirl , too . 
I never see anything like it . 
They was all Moslems , Tom said , and when I asked him what a Moslem was , he said it was a person that wasn't a Presbyterian . 
So there is plenty of them in Missouri , though I didn't know it before . 
We didn't see half there was to see in Cairo , because Tom was in such a sweat to hunt out places that was celebrated in history . 
How he ever found that place was too many for me . 
Then at last the remarkablest thing happened I ever see . 
The house was gone gone hundreds of years ago every last rag of it gone but just one mud brick . 
I know he done it , because I see him do it . 
I was right by his very side at the time , and see him see the brick and see him reconnize it . 
I've ciphered over it a good deal , and it's my opinion that some of it is knowledge but the main bulk of it is instink . 
I think that settles it it's mostly instink , not knowledge . 
Instink tells him where the exact PLACE is for the brick to be in , and so he reconnizes it by the place it's in , not by the look of the brick . 
If it was knowledge , not instink , he would know the brick again by the look of it the next time he seen it which he didn't . 
So it shows that for all the brag you hear about knowledge being such a wonderful thing , instink is worth forty of it for real unerringness . 
We stopped , then , and had a good look at the place , and it done Jim good to see it . 
But we had an accident , now , and it fetched all the plans to a standstill . 
Tom he didn't know WHAT to do . 
He wouldn't take mine , I couldn't persuade him . 
So Tom was pretty glum for a little while , then he chirked up and said he'd got the idea and knowed what to do . 
He says I've got another corn cob pipe , and it's a prime one , too , and nearly new . 
It's laying on the rafter that's right over the kitchen stove at home in the village . 
Jim , you and the guide will go and get it , and me and Huck will camp here on Mount Sinai till you come back . 
But , Mars Tom , we couldn't ever find de village . 
I could find de pipe , 'case I knows de kitchen , but my lan' , we can't ever find de village , nur Sent Louis , nur none o' dem places . 
We don't know de way , Mars Tom . 
That was a fact , and it stumped Tom for a minute . 
Then he said Looky here , it can be done , sure and I'll tell you how . 
You set your compass and sail west as straight as a dart , till you find the United States . 
It ain't any trouble , because it's the first land you'll strike the other side of the Atlantic . 
Then you can follow the river north nearly , an hour and three quarters , till you see the Ohio come in then you want to look sharp , because you're getting near . 
Away up to your left you'll see another thread coming in that's the Missouri and is a little above St . 
You'll come down low then , so as you can examine the villages as you spin along . 
You'll pass about twenty five in the next fifteen minutes , and you'll recognize ours when you see it and if you don't , you can yell down and ask . 
Ef it's dat easy , Mars Tom , I reckon we kin do it yassir , I knows we kin . 
The guide was sure of it , too , and thought that he could learn to stand his watch in a little while . 
Jim can learn you the whole thing in a half an hour , Tom said . 
This balloon's as easy to manage as a canoe . 
Tom got out the chart and marked out the course and measured it , and says To go back west is the shortest way , you see . 
It's only about seven thousand miles . 
If you went east , and so on around , it's over twice as far . 
There's a hundred miles an hour in this old thing without any wind to help . 
There's two hundred mile gales to be found , any time you want to hunt for them . 
We'll hunt for them , sir . 
Sometimes you may have to go up a couple of miles , and it'll be p'ison cold , but most of the time you'll find your storm a good deal lower . 
If you can only strike a cyclone that's the ticket for you ! You'll see by the professor's books that they travel west in these latitudes and they travel low , too . 
Then he ciphered on the time , and says Seven thousand miles , three hundred miles an hour you can make the trip in a day twenty four hours . 
This is Thursday you'll be back here Sat urday afternoon . 
Come , now , hustle out some blankets and food and books and things for me and Huck , and you can start right along . 
There ain't no occasion to fool around I want a smoke , and the quicker you fetch that pipe the better . 
All hands jumped for the things , and in eight min utes our things was out and the balloon was ready for America . 
So we shook hands good bye , and Tom gave his last orders It's O minutes to P. M. now , Mount Sinai time . 
In hours you'll be home , and it'll be to mor row morning , village time . 
Then you jump for the balloon and shove for Mount Sinai three hundred miles an hour . 
You won't have lost more than an hour . 
You'll start back at or A. M. , village time , and be here in hours , arriving at or P. M. , Mount Sinai time . 
Tom he read the piece of paper to us . 
He had wrote on it THURSDAY AFTERNOON . 
This misplacing of the Ark is probably Huck's error , not Tom's . 
M. T. That'll make her eyes bulge out and the tears come , he says . 
Then he says Stand by ! One two three away you go ! And away she DID go ! Why , she seemed to whiz out of sight in a second . 
Then we found a most comfortable cave that looked out over the whole big plain , and there we camped to wait for the pipe . 
The balloon come hack all right , and brung the pipe but Aunt Polly had catched Jim when he was getting it , and anybody can guess what happened she sent for Tom . 
Dey's gwyne to be trouble , Mars Tom , 'deed dey is . 
So then we shoved for home , and not feeling very gay , neither . 
