Internet Wiretap Edition of TOM SAWYER , DETECTIVE by MARK TWAIN Electronic edition by dell wiretap . 
I take them from an old time Swedish criminal trial , change the actors , and transfer the scenes to America . 
I have added some details , but only a couple of them are important ones . 
It just makes a boy homesick to look ahead like that and see how far off summer is . 
Yes , and it sets him to sighing and saddening around , and there's something the matter with him , he don't know what . 
Don't you know what that is ? It's spring fever . 
That is what the name of it is . 
That is the idea you want to go and be a wanderer you want to go wandering far away to strange countries where everything is mysterious and wonderful and romantic . 
I 'most jumped out of my skin for joy . 
I reckoned Tom would fly at his aunt and hug her head off but if you believe me he set there like a rock , and never said a word . 
It made me fit to cry to see him act so foolish , with such a noble chance as this opening up . 
Why , we might lose it if he didn't speak up and show he was thankful and grateful . 
You lemme alone I reckon I know how to work her . 
Now I never would 'a' thought of that . 
Tom Sawyer was always right the levelest head I ever see , and always AT himself and ready for anything you might spring on him . 
By this time his aunt Polly was all straight again , and she let fly . 
Up in his room he hugged me , he was so out of his head for gladness because he was going traveling . 
And he says Before we get away she'll wish she hadn't let me go , but she won't know any way to get around it now . 
After what she's said , her pride won't let her take it back . 
Then we went down , being in a sweat to know what the letter said . 
She was setting there in a brown study , with it laying in her lap . 
We set down , and she says They're in considerable trouble down there , and they think you and Huck'll be a kind of diversion for them 'comfort , they say . 
Much of that they'll get out of you and Huck Finn , I reckon . 
He's a widower , thirty six years old , without any children , and is proud of his money and overbear ing , and everybody is a little afraid of him . 
Why , Benny's only half as old as he is , and just as sweet and lovely asQ well , you've seen her . 
What a name Jubiter ! Where'd he get it ? It's only just a nickname . 
I reckon they've forgot his real name long before this . 
He's twenty seven , now , and has had it ever since the first time he ever went in swimming . 
What's t'other twin like ? Just exactly like Jubiter so they say used to was , anyway , but he hain't been seen for seven years . 
He got to robbing when he was nineteen or twenty , and they jailed him but he broke jail and got away up North here , somers . 
They used to hear about him robbing and burglaring now and then , but that was years ago . 
At least that's what they say . 
They don't hear about him any more . 
What was his name ? Jake . 
There wasn't anything more said for a considerable while the old lady was thinking . 
At last she says The thing that is mostly worrying your aunt Sally is the tempers that that man Jubiter gets your uncle into . 
Tom was astonished , and so was I. Tom says Tempers ? Uncle Silas ? Land , you must be jok ing ! I didn't know he HAD any temper . 
Works him up into perfect rages , your aunt Sally says says he acts as if he would really hit the man , sometimes . 
Aunt Polly , it beats anything I ever heard of . 
Why , he's just as gentle as mush . 
Well , she's worried , anyway . 
Says your uncle Silas is like a changed man , on account of all this quarreling . 
And the neighbors talk about it , and lay all the blame on your uncle , of course , because he's a preacher and hain't got any business to quarrel . 
Louis not so very much short of a thousand miles at one pull . 
A pretty lonesome boat there warn't but few passengers , and all old folks , that set around , wide apart , dozing , and was very quiet . 
We was four days getting out of the upper river , because we got aground so much . 
But it warn't dull couldn't be for boys that was traveling , of course . 
From the very start me and Tom allowed that there was somebody sick in the stateroom next to ourn , be cause the meals was always toted in there by the wait ers . 
By and by we asked about it Tom did and the waiter said it was a man , but he didn't look sick . 
Well , but AIN'T he sick ? I don't know maybe he is , but 'pears to me he's just letting on . 
What makes you think that ? Because if he was sick he would pull his clothes off SOME time or other don't you reckon he would ? Well , this one don't . 
At least he don't ever pull off his boots , anyway . 
The mischief he don't ! Not even when he goes to bed ? No. It was always nuts for Tom Sawyer a mystery was . 
If you'd lay out a mystery and a pie before me and him , you wouldn't have to say take your choice it was a thing that would regulate itself . 
Because in my nature I have always run to pie , whilst in his nature he has always run to mystery . 
And it is the best way . 
Tom says to the waiter What's the man's name ? Phillips . 
Where'd he come aboard ? I think he got aboard at Elexandria , up on the Iowa line . 
What do you reckon he's a playing ? I hain't any notion I never thought of it . 
I says to myself , here's another one that runs to pie . 
By jimminy , it's int'resting ! I'd like to get a look at him . 
Say the next time you're going in there , don't you reckon you could spread the door and No , indeedy ! He's always behind it . 
He would block that game . 
Tom studied over it , and then he says Looky here . 
You lend me your apern and let me take him his breakfast in the morning . 
I'll give you a quarter . 
The boy was plenty willing enough , if the head steward wouldn't mind . 
Tom says that's all right , he reckoned he could fix it with the head steward and he done it . 
He fixed it so as we could both go in with aperns on and toting vittles . 
I wouldn't give a dern to know what's the matter of Phillips , I says to myself . 
Well , in the morning we put on the aperns and got a couple of trays of truck , and Tom he knocked on the door . 
The man opened it a crack , and then he let us in and shut it quick . 
So we got to talking together while he et his breakfast . 
And he says But I aint Jubiter Dunlap . 
I'd just as soon tell you who I am , though , if you'll swear to keep mum , for I ain't no Phillips , either . 
Tom says We'll keep mum , but there ain't any need to tell who you are if you ain't Jubiter Dunlap . 
Why ? Because if you ain't him you're t'other twin , Jake . 
You're the spit'n image of Jubiter . 
He never made any bones about his own case said he'd been a hard lot , was a hard lot yet , and reckoned he'd be a hard lot plumb to the end . 
He said of course it was a danger ous life , and He give a kind of gasp , and set his head like a person that's listening . 
Land ! he says , it's like old times to hear all this tittle tattle , and does me good . 
It's been seven years and more since I heard any . 
How do they talk about me these days ? Who ? The farmers and the family . 
Why , they don't talk about you at all at least only just a mention , once in a long time . 
The nation ! he says , surprised why is that ? Because they think you are dead long ago . 
No ! Are you speaking true ? honor bright , now . 
He jumped up , excited . 
There ain't anybody thinks you are alive . 
Then I'm saved , I'm saved , sure ! I'll go home . 
They'll hide me and save my life . 
Swear you'll keep mum swear you'll never , never tell on me . 
We'd a swore it if he'd been a dog and so we done it . 
Well , he couldn't love us enough for it or be grate ful enough , poor cuss it was all he could do to keep from hugging us . 
We talked along , and he got out a little hand bag and begun to open it , and told us to turn our backs . 
We done it , and when he told us to turn again he was perfectly different to what he was before . 
He had on blue goggles and the naturalest looking long brown whiskers and mustashes you ever see . 
His own mother wouldn't 'a' knowed him . 
He asked us if he looked like his brother Jubiter , now . 
No , Tom said there ain't anything left that's like him except the long hair . 
I've got to play deef and dumb when there's a neighbor around . 
If I'd a struck for home and forgot that little detail However , I wasn't striking for home . 
A DIAMOND ROBBERY FROM that time out , we was with him 'most all the time , and one or t'other of us slept in his upper berth . 
He said he had been so lonesome , and it was such a comfort to him to have company , and somebody to talk to in his troubles . 
It turned out just so . 
The way it come about was this He got to asking us , kind of indifferent like , about the passengers down on deck . 
We told him about them . 
But he warn't satis fied we warn't particular enough . 
He told us to de scribe them better . 
I sort of hoped I had got away , but I never believed it . 
Presently when Tom was describing another mangy , rough deck passenger , he give that shiver again and says That's him ! that's the other one . 
If it would only come a good black stormy night and I could get ashore . 
You see , they've got spies on me . 
If I was to slip ashore without anybody seeing me , they would know it inside of an hour . 
He says It was a confidence game . 
We played it on a julery shop in St . 
What we was after was a couple of noble big di'monds as big as hazel nuts , which every body was running to see . 
We was dressed up fine , and we played it on them in broad daylight . 
Was they really worth all that money , do you reckon ? Every cent of it . 
And you fellows got away with them ? As easy as nothing . 
I don't reckon the julery people know they've been robbed yet . 
But it wouldn't be good sense to stay around St . 
Louis , of course , so we considered where we'd go . 
One was for going one way , one another , so we throwed up , heads or tails , and the Upper Mississippi won . 
I don't know for certain , but I reckon maybe we had . 
What notion ? Tom says . 
What one take everything , after all of you had helped to get it ? Cert'nly . 
It disgusted Tom Sawyer , and he said it was the orneriest , low downest thing he ever heard of . 
But Jake Dunlap said it warn't unusual in the profession . 
Said when a person was in that line of business he'd got to look out for his own intrust , there warn't no body else going to do it for him . 
And then he went on . 
He says You see , the trouble was , you couldn't divide up two di'monds amongst three . 
If there'd been three But never mind about that , there warn't three . 
I loafed along the back streets studying and studying . 
I was glad , you bet . 
I says to myself , I'll see what he buys . 
So I kept shady , and watched . 
What WAS it he bought , Jake ? You'd never guess in the world . 
It was only just a screwdriver just a wee little bit of a screwdriver . 
Well , I declare ! What did he want with that ? That's what I thought . 
Then I went down to the wharf and hid my things aboard the up river boat that we had picked out , and then started back and had another streak of luck . 
I seen our other pal lay in HIS stock of old rusty second handers . 
We got the di'monds and went aboard the boat . 
But now we was up a stump , for we couldn't go to bed . 
We had to set up and watch one another . 
Bad anyway , seeing there was only two di'monds betwixt three men . 
At last Bud Dixon he dropped off . 
There warn't nobody stirring anywhere , and the boat was slipping along , swift and steady , through the big water in the smoky moonlight . 
We never said a word , but went straight up onto the hurricane deck and plumb back aft , and set down on the end of the sky light . 
Both of us knowed what that meant , without having to explain to one another . 
Bud Dixon would wake up and miss the swag , and would come straight for us , for he ain't afeard of anything or anybody , that man ain't . 
He would come , and we would heave him overboard , or get killed trying . 
It made me shiver , because I ain't as brave as some people , but if I showed the white feather well , I knowed better than do that . 
Well , the time strung along and along , and that fellow never come ! Why , it strung along till dawn begun to break , and still he never come . 
Smart ? Well , I reckon ! He had had them two papers all fixed and ready , and he had put one of them in place of t'other right under our noses . 
But the thing to do , straight off , was to make a plan and we done it . 
If we got the swag , we'd GOT to do for him , or he would hunt us down and do for us , sure . 
But I didn't have no real hope . 
You re member about that puzzlesome little screwdriver ? You bet I do , says Tom , all excited . 
See , it's bottomed with a steel plate , and the plate is fastened on with little screws . 
Now there wasn't a screw about that feller anywhere but in his boot heels so , if he needed a screwdriver , I reckoned I knowed why . 
Huck , ain't it bully ! says Tom . 
Hal Clayton dropped off pretty soon , but I didn't I wasn't ever so wide awake in my life . 
I was spying out from under the shade of my hat brim , searching the floor for leather . 
It took me a long time , and I begun to think maybe my guess was wrong , but at last I struck it . 
It laid over by the bulkhead , and was nearly the color of the carpet . 
It was a little round plug about as thick as the end of your little finger , and I says to myself there's a di'mond in the nest you've come from . 
Before long I spied out the plug's mate . 
He set there and took his own time to un screw his heelplates and cut out his plugs and stick in the di'monds and screw on his plates again . 
You bet your life it was ! says Tom , just full of admiration . 
We loaded him till he fell out of his chair and laid there snoring . 
We was ready for business now . 
I set my boots and Bud's side by side , where they'd be handy . 
Then we stripped him and searched his seams and his pockets and his socks and the inside of his boots , and everything , and searched his bundle . 
We found the screwdriver , and Hal says , 'What do you reckon he wanted with that ? I said I didn't know but when he wasn't looking I hooked it . 
At last Hal he looked beat and discour aged , and said we'd got to give it up . 
That was what I was waiting for . 
I says 'There's one place we hain't searched . 
'What place is that ? he says . 
'By gracious , I never thought of that ! NOW we're on the homestretch , to a dead moral certainty . 
He said that's the ticket , and with him looking straight at me I slid myself into Bud's boots instead of my own , and he never noticed . 
They was just a shade large for me , but that was considerable better than be ing too small . 
And not feeling so very bad , neither walking on di'monds don't have no such effect . 
When I had gone fifteen minutes I says to myself , there's more'n a mile behind me , and everything quiet . 
Another five minutes and I says there's considerable more land behind me now , and there's a man back there that's begun to wonder what's the trouble . 
Another five and I says to myself he's getting real uneasy he's walking the floor now . 
Another five , and I says to myself , there's two mile and a half behind me , and he's AWFUL uneasy be ginning to cuss , I reckon . 
He'll hunt for new tracks in the dust , and they'll as likely send him down the river as up . 
Just then I see a man coming down on a mule , and before I thought I jumped into the bush . 
It was stupid ! When he got abreast he stopped and waited a little for me to come out then he rode on again . 
But I didn't feel gay any more . 
I says to myself I've botched my chances by that I surely have , if he meets up with Hal Clayton . 
I went aboard and got this state room and put on these clothes and went up in the pilot house to watch , though I didn't reckon there was any need of it . 
I set there and played with my di'monds and waited and waited for the boat to start , but she didn't . 
You see , they was mending her machinery , but I didn't know anything about it , not being very much used to steamboats . 
I says to myself , if he finds out I'm aboard this boat , he's got me like a rat in a trap . 
But all the same I judged he was a fool . 
If I had been him I would a handed the di'monds to them pals and got them to go ashore and leave me alone . 
But he was made differ ent . 
He said it was a whole fortune and he couldn't bear the idea . 
Twice we stopped to fix the machinery and laid a good while , once in the night but it wasn't dark enough , and he was afeard to skip . 
But the third time we had to fix it there was a better chance . 
We laid up at a country woodyard about forty mile above Uncle Silas's place a little after one at night , and it was thickening up and going to storm . 
So Jake he laid for a chance to slide . 
We begun to take in wood . 
Pretty soon the rain come a drenching down , and the wind blowed hard . 
But it wasn't for long . 
Somebody told , I reckon for in about eight or ten minutes them two pals come tearing forrard as tight as they could jump and darted ashore and was gone . 
We waited plumb till dawn for them to come back , and kept hoping they would , but they never did . 
We was awful sorry and low spirited . 
Said he would wait for us in a little bunch of sycamores right back of Tom's uncle Silas's tobacker field on the river road , a lonesome place . 
So we was pretty sorrowful . 
Poor Jake is killed , sure , we says . 
We laid down , kind of weak and sick , and listened for more sounds , but didn't hear none for a good while but just our hearts . 
We was thinking of that awful thing laying yonder in the sycamores , and it seemed like being that close to a ghost , and it give me the cold shudders . 
All of a sud den Tom whispers Look ! what's that ? Don't ! I says . 
Don't take a person by sur prise that way . 
I'm 'most ready to die , anyway , with out you doing that . 
Look , I tell you . 
It's something coming out of the sycamores . 
Don't , Tom ! It's terrible tall ! Oh , lordy lordy ! let's Keep still it's a coming this way . 
He was so excited he could hardly get breath enough to whisper . 
So now we was both on our knees with our chins on a fence rail and gazing yes , and gasping too . 
We couldn't stir for a minute or two then it was gone We talked about it in low voices . 
Tom says They're mostly dim and smoky , or like they're made out of fog , but this one wasn't . 
No , I says I seen the goggles and the whiskers perfectly plain . 
Did you notice if its hair was the same , Huck ? No seems to me I did , then again it seems to me I didn't . 
I didn't either but it had its bag along , I noticed that . 
So did I. How can there be a ghost bag , Tom ? Sho ! I wouldn't be as ignorant as that if I was you , Huck Finn . 
Whatever a ghost has , turns to ghost stuff . 
They've got to have their things , like anybody else . 
You see , yourself , that its clothes was turned to ghost stuff . 
Well , then , what's to hender its bag from turning , too ? Of course it done it . 
I couldn't find no fault with it . 
Bill Withers and his brother Jack come along by , talking , and Jack says What do you reckon he was toting ? I dunno but it was pretty heavy . 
Yes , all he could lug . 
Nigger stealing corn from old Parson Silas , I judged . 
So did I. And so I allowed I wouldn't let on to see him . 
Then they both laughed , and went on out of hearing . 
It showed how unpopular old Uncle Silas had got to be now . 
They wouldn't 'a' let a nigger steal anybody else's corn and never done anything to him . 
We heard some more voices mumbling along towards us and getting louder , and sometimes a cackle of a laugh . 
It was Lem Beebe and Jim Lane . 
Jim Lane says Who ? Jubiter Dunlap ? Yes . 
Oh , I don't know . 
I seen him spad ing up some ground along about an hour ago , just be fore sundown him and the parson . 
Said he guessed he wouldn't go to night , but we could have his dog if we wanted him . 
Too tired , I reckon . 
Yes works so hard ! Oh , you bet ! They cackled at that , and went on by . 
Tom said we better jump out and tag along after them , because they was going our way and it wouldn't be comfortable to run across the ghost all by ourselves . 
So we done it , and got home all right . 
That night was the second of September a Satur day . 
I sha'n't ever forget it . 
You'll see why , pretty soon . 
By George ! What's the matter ? says I. Matter enough ! he says . 
It wouldn't be you , Tom Sawyer , if you was to let such a chance go by . 
I reckon it ain't going to suffer none for lack of paint , I says , when you start in to scollop the facts . 
I says I'd say it's a lie . 
You ain't in earnest , Tom Sawyer ? You'll soon see . 
Was the ghost barefooted ? No , it wasn't . 
What of it ? You wait I'll show you what . 
Did it have its boots on ? Yes . 
Swear it ? Yes , I swear it . 
So do I. Now do you know what that means ? No. What does it mean ? Means that them thieves DIDN'T GET THE DI'MONDS . 
Jimminy ! What makes you think that ? I don't only think it , I know it . 
I never see such a head as that boy had . 
Why , I had eyes and I could see things , but they never meant nothing to me . 
But Tom Sawyer was different . 
When Tom Sawyer seen a thing it just got up on its hind legs and TALKED to him told him everything it knowed . 
I never see such a head . 
Tom Sawyer , I says , I'll say it again as I've said it a many a time before I ain't fitten to black your boots . 
But that's all right that's neither here nor there . 
Go on I see plenty plain enough , now , that them thieves didn't get way with the di'monds . 
Why didn't they , do you reckon ? Because they got chased away by them other two men before they could pull the boots off of the corpse . 
That's so ! I see it now . 
But looky here , Tom , why ain't we to go and tell about it ? Oh , shucks , Huck Finn , can't you see ? Look at it . 
What's a going to happen ? There's going to be an inquest in the morning . 
Them two men will tell how they heard the yells and rushed there just in time to not save the stranger . 
And after they've buried him they'll auction off his things for to pay the expenses , and then's OUR chance . 
How , Tom ? Buy the boots for two dollars ! Well , it 'most took my breath . 
My land ! Why , Tom , WE'LL get the di'monds ! You bet . 
Some day there'll be a big reward offered for them a thousand dollars , sure . 
That's our money ! Now we'll trot in and see the folks . 
And mind you we don't know anything about any murder , or any di'monds , or any thieves don't you forget that . 
I had to sigh a little over the way he had got it fixed . 
I'd 'a' SOLD them di'monds yes , sir for twelve thousand dollars but I didn't say anything . 
It wouldn't done any good . 
I reckon you can explain it somehow . 
He was always just that strict and delicate . 
He never would tell a lie himself . 
It was good to be there again behind all that noble corn pone and spareribs , and everything that you could ever want in this world . 
He only said , Um , in a kind of a disappointed way , and didn't take no more intrust . 
I says Well , then , as I was a saying That'll do , you needn't go no furder . 
She was boring right into me with her eyes , and very indignant . 
You and Huck's been up to something you no business to I know it perfectly well I know you , BOTH of you . 
What mistake has he made ? Why , only the mistake of saying blackberries when of course he meant strawberries . 
Tom Sawyer , I lay if you aggravate me a little more , I'll Aunt Sally , without knowing it and of course without intending it you are in the wrong . 
She was so mad she couldn't get the words out fast enough , and she gushed them out in one everlasting freshet . 
That was what Tom Sawyer was after . 
He allowed to work her up and get her started and then leave her alone and let her burn herself out . 
Then she would be so aggravated with that subject that she wouldn't say another word about it , nor let anybody else . 
Well , it happened just so . 
So we was perfectly safe , then , and didn't have no more trouble about that delay . 
Tell him he ain't here . 
And when the nigger was gone he got up and walked the floor , backwards and forwards , mumbling and muttering to himself and plowing his hands through his hair . 
It was real pitiful to see him . 
Aunt Sally she whispered to us and told us not to take notice of him , it embarrassed him . 
She said she reckoned it didn't do him no harm , and may be it done him good . 
She said Benny was the only one that was much help to him these days . 
Said Benny appeared to know just when to try to soothe him and when to leave him alone . 
They had very petting ways together , and it was uncommon pretty to see . 
We could hear Benny stirring around in her room , which was next to ourn , and judged she was worried a good deal about her father and couldn't sleep . 
We found we couldn't , neither . 
So we set up a long time , and smoked and talked in a low voice , and felt pretty dull and down hearted . 
We talked the murder and the ghost over and over again , and got so creepy and crawly we couldn't get sleepy nohow and noway . 
So Tom says He's a walking in his sleep . 
I wish we was allowed to follow him and see where he's going to . 
There , he's turned down by the tobacker field . 
It's a dreadful pity he can't rest no better . 
Tom says Looky here , Huck , I'll tell you one thing that's mighty curious . 
Up to the time we went out last night the family hadn't heard about Jake Dunlap being mur dered . 
Land , they don't have such a big thing as that to tell twice in thirty year ! Huck , it's mighty strange I don't understand it . 
And he said if they did we must be horribly surprised and shocked . 
We was out and gone the minute the rain stopped . 
It was just broad day then . 
Tom said he believed if we went to the sycamores we would find that body laying there solitary and alone , and not a soul around . 
First we knowed , gabbling along that away , we was right at the sycamores . 
The cold chills trickled down my back and I wouldn't budge another step , for all Tom's persuading . 
But he couldn't hold in he'd GOT to see if the boots was safe on that body yet . 
There ain't a sign of it . 
The ground is trampled some , but if there was any blood it's all washed away by the storm , for it's all puddles and slush in there . 
At last I give in , and went and took a look myself and it was just as Tom said there wasn't a sign of a corpse . 
Dern it , I says , the di'monds is gone . 
Don't you reckon the thieves slunk back and lugged him off , Tom ? Looks like it . 
Now where'd they hide him , do you reckon ? I don't know , I says , disgusted , and what's more I don't care . 
They've got the boots , and that's all I cared about . 
He'll lay around these woods a long time before I hunt him up . 
We went back home to breakfast ever so bothered and put out and disappointed and swindled . 
I warn't ever so down on a corpse before . 
TALKING WITH THE GHOST IT warn't very cheerful at breakfast . 
If he hadn't lost his mind he wasn't muck short of it . 
That was what we allowed . 
It was a most lovely day now , and bright and sun . 
And then all of a sudden I catched my breath and grabbed Tom's arm , and all my livers and lungs and things fell down into my legs . 
There it is ! I says . 
We jumped back behind a bush shivering , and Tom says 'Sh ! don't make a noise . 
It was setting on a log right in the edge of a little prairie , thinking . 
I tried to get Tom to come away , but he wouldn't , and I dasn't budge by myself . 
He said we mightn't ever get another chance to see one , and he was going to look his fill at this one if he died for it . 
So I looked too , though it give me the fan tods to do it . 
Tom he HAD to talk , but he talked low . 
He says Poor Jakey , it's got all its things on , just as he said he would . 
NOW you see what we wasn't certain about its hair . 
It's not long now the way it was it's got it cropped close to its head , the way he said he would . 
Huck , I never see anything look any more naturaler than what It does . 
Nor I neither , I says I'd recognize it any wheres . 
So would I. It looks perfectly solid and genu wyne , just the way it done before it died . 
So we kept a gazing . 
Pretty soon Tom says Huck , there's something mighty curious about this one , don't you know ? IT oughtn't to be going around in the daytime . 
That's so , Tom I never heard the like of it before . 
No , sir , they don't ever come out only at night and then not till after twelve . 
There's something wrong about this one , now you mark my words . 
I don't believe it's got any right to be around in the daytime . 
But don't it look natural ! Jake was going to play deef and dumb here , so the neighbors wouldn't know his voice . 
Don't you worry , I ain't going to holler at it . 
Look , Huck , it's a scratching its head don't you see ? Well , what of it ? Why , this . 
What's the sense of it scratching its head ? There ain't anything there to itch its head is made out of fog or something like that , and can't itch . 
A fog can't itch any fool knows that . 
I ain't a bit satisfied about the way this one acts . 
I've a blame good notion it's a bogus one I have , as sure as I'm a sitting here . 
I sort of begin to think Huck , it's biting off a chaw of tobacker ! By George , THEY don't chaw they hain't got anything to chaw WITH . 
Huck ! I'm a listening . 
It ain't a ghost at all . 
It's Jake Dunlap his own self ! Oh your granny ! I says . 
Huck Finn , did we find any corpse in the syca mores ? No. Or any sign of one ? No. Mighty good reason . 
Hadn't ever been any corpse there . 
Why , Tom , you know we heard Yes , we didJ heard a howl or two . 
Does that prove anybody was killed ? Course it don't . 
And we seen four men run , then this one come walking out and we took it for a ghost . 
No more ghost than you are . 
It was Jake Dunlap his own self , and it's Jake Dunlap now . 
He's been and got his hair cropped , the way he said he would , and he's playing himself for a stranger , just the same as he said he would . 
Ghost ? Hum ! he's as sound as a nut . 
Then I see it all , and how we had took too much for granted . 
So he started but I kept a little behind , because I didn't know but it might be a ghost , after all . 
When Tom got to where he was , he says Me and Huck's mighty glad to see you again , and you needn't be afeared we'll tell . 
Just then we see some of Steve Nickerson's people coming that lived t'other side of the prairie , so Tom says You do it elegant I never see anybody do it better . 
You're right play it on us , too play it on us same as the others it'll keep you in practice and prevent you making blunders . 
We'll keep away from you and let on we don't know you , but any time we can be any help , you just let us know . 
But Tom said he warn't able to make anything out of deef and dumb signs , and the same with goo gooing . 
Then we watched them go and bullyrag Jake because we was pretty uneasy for him . 
Tom said it would take him days to get so he wouldn't forget he was a deef and dummy sometimes , and speak out be fore he thought . 
The boys and girls was all glad to see us again , and we had a real good time all through recess . 
That was Tom Sawyer's idea about it , and reckoned there warn't anybody could better it . 
FINDING OF JUBITER DUNLAP IN the next two or three days Dummy he got to be powerful popular . 
He went associating around with the neighbors , and they made much of him , and was proud to have such a rattling curiosity among them . 
He toted a piece of slate around , and a pencil and people wrote questions on it and he wrote answers but there warn't anybody could read his writing but Brace Dunlap . 
Brace said he couldn't read it very good , but he could manage to dig out the meaning most of the time . 
Everybody praised Brace Dunlap for being so good to that stranger . 
He let him have a little log cabin all to himself , and had his niggers take care of it , and fetch him all the vittles he wanted . 
Dummy was at our house some , because old Uncle Silas was so afflicted himself , these days , that anybody else that was afflicted was a comfort to him . 
Me and Tom didn't let on that we had knowed him before , and he didn't let on that he had knowed us before . 
The family talked their troubles out before him the same as if he wasn't there , but we reckoned it wasn't any harm for him to hear what they said . 
Generly he didn't seem to notice , but sometimes he did . 
Well , two or three days went along , and everybody got to getting uneasy about Jubiter Dunlap . 
Every body was asking everybody if they had any idea what had become of him . 
No , they hadn't , they said and they shook their heads and said there was something powerful strange about it . 
Another and another day went by then there was a report got around that praps he was murdered . 
You bet it made a big stir ! Every body's tongue was clacking away after that . 
Saturday two or three gangs turned out and hunted the woods to see if they could run across his remainders . 
Me and Tom helped , and it was noble good times and exciting . 
Tom he was so brimful of it he couldn't eat nor rest . 
He said if we could find that corpse we would be celebrated , and more talked about than if we got drownded . 
The others got tired and give it up but not Tom Sawyer that warn't his style . 
Saturday night he didn't sleep any , hardly , trying to think up a plan and towards daylight in the morning he struck it . 
Old Jeff Hooker had a bloodhound , and Tom was going to borrow him . 
I says The trail's too old , Tom and besides , it's rained , you know . 
It don't make any difference , Huck . 
If the body's hid in the woods anywhere around the hound will find it . 
If he's been murdered and buried , they wouldn't bury him deep , it ain't likely , and if the dog goes over the spot he'll scent him , sure . 
Huck , we're going to be celebrated , sure as you're born ! He was just a blazing and whenever he got afire he was most likely to get afire all over . 
That was the way this time . 
For all we know , there AIN'T any corpse and nobody hain't been mur dered . 
That cuss could 'a' gone off somers and not been killed at all . 
That graveled him , and he says Huck Finn , I never see such a person as you to want to spoil everything . 
As long as YOU can't see anything hopeful in a thing , you won't let anybody else . 
What good can it do you to throw cold water on that corpse and get up that selfish theory that there ain't been any murder ? None in the world . 
I don't see how you can act so . 
I wouldn't treat you like that , and you know it . 
Here we've got a noble good opportunity to make a ruputation , and Oh , go ahead , I says . 
I'm sorry , and I take it all back . 
Fix it any way you want it . 
HE ain't any consequence to me . 
Any way you druther have it , that is the way I druther have it . 
He There ain't any druthers ABOUT it , Huck Finn no body said anything about druthers . 
And as for He forgot he was talking , and went tramping along , studying . 
It won't only be an honor to us , but it'll be an honor to Uncle Silas because it was us that done it . 
It'll set him up again , you see if it don't . 
But Old Jeff Hooker he throwed cold water on the whole business when we got to his blacksmith shop and told him what we come for . 
You can take the dog , he says , but you ain't a going to find any corpse , because there ain't any corpse to find . 
Everybody's quit looking , and they're right . 
Soon as they come to think , they knowed there warn't no corpse . 
And I'll tell you for why . 
What does a person kill another person for , Tom Sawyer ? answer me that . 
Why , he er Answer up ! You ain't no fool . 
What does he kill him FOR ? Well , sometimes it's for revenge , and Wait . 
One thing at a time . 
Revenge , says you and right you are . 
Now who ever had anything agin that poor trifling no account ? Who do you reckon would want to kill HIM ? that rabbit ! Tom was stuck . 
The blacksmith says , by and by The revenge idea won't work , you see . 
Well , then , what's next ? Robbery ? B'gosh , that must 'a' been it , Tom ! Yes , sirree , I reckon we've struck it this time . 
But old Hooker never let up on him . 
Then he busted out , and had another of them forty rod laughs of hisn . 
It was a lovely dog . 
There ain't any dog that's got a lovelier disposition than a bloodhound , and this one knowed us and liked us . 
He said old Jeff Hooker would tell every body , and we'd never hear the last of it . 
So we loafed along home down the back lanes , feel ing pretty glum and not talking . 
It was a long square , the shape of a grave the rain had made it sink down and show the shape . 
The minute we come and stood there we looked at one another and never said a word . 
When the dog had dug down only a few inches he grabbed something and pulled it up , and it was an arm and a sleeve . 
Tom kind of gasped out , and says Come away , Huck it's found . 
We struck for the road and fetched the first men that come along . 
They got a spade at the crib and dug out the body , and you never see such an excitement . 
You couldn't make anything out of the face , but you didn't need to . 
Tom was all afire and 'most out of breath when we come tearing in where Uncle Silas and Aunt Sally and Benny was . 
We couldn't move hand or foot for as much as half a minute . 
But pretty soon he sort of come to himself again and says Uncle Silas , don't you say another word like that . 
It's dangerous , and there ain't a shadder of truth in it . 
Then he went on and told about it , and said it happened the day me and Tom come along about sundown . 
So he hoped he wasn't hurt bad . 
But Tom said No , you ain't going to be found out . 
ONE lick wouldn't kill him . 
Oh , yes , he says , I done it nobody else . 
He noticed that , and he saddened down again , and I never see a face so miserable and so pitiful to see . 
Tom had a sudden idea , and says But hold on ! somebody BURIED him . 
Now who He shut off sudden . 
And I knowed Benny seen him , too , because she was talking about it one day . 
So at last he promised . 
We was all of us more com fortable , then , and went to work to cheer up the old man . 
We told him all he'd got to do was to keep still , and it wouldn't be long till the whole thing would blow over and be forgot . 
It disappointed Tom and graveled him a good deal , but he had to put up with it . 
TOM SAWYER DISCOVERS THE MURDERERS WELL , that was a hard month on us all . 
It was the same up at the jail . 
He actu'ly begun to come out plain and square towards trial time and acknowledge that he TRIED to kill the man . 
Why , that was awful , you know . 
It made things seem fifty times as dreadful , and there warn't no more com fort for Aunt Sally and Benny . 
But he promised he wouldn't say a word about his murder when others was around , and we was glad of that . 
As for me , I reckoned a body might as well give it up , it all looked so blue and I was so downhearted but he wouldn't . 
He stuck to the business right along , and went on planning and thinking and ransacking his head . 
So at last the trial come on , towards the middle of October , and we was all in the court . 
The place was jammed , of course . 
Poor old Uncle Silas , he looked more like a dead person than a live one , his eyes was so hollow and he looked so thin and so mournful . 
Benny she set on one side of him and Aunt Sally on the other , and they had veils on , and was full of trouble . 
But Tom he set by our lawyer , and had his finger in every wheres , of course . 
The lawyer let him , and the judge let him . 
They swore in the jury , and then the lawyer for the prostitution got up and begun . 
He made a terrible speech against the old man , that made him moan and groan , and made Benny and Aunt Sally cry . 
The way HE told about the murder kind of knocked us all stupid it was so different from the old man's tale . 
And said Uncle Silas come later and lugged Jubiter down into the tobacker field , and two men seen him do it . 
And said Uncle Silas turned out , away in the night , and buried Jubiter , and a man seen him at it . 
Tom and our lawyer asked them some questions but it warn't no use , they stuck to what they said . 
Next , they called up Lem Beebe , and he took the stand . 
Well , it was awful . 
It kind of froze everybody's blood to hear it , and the house was 'most as still whilst he was telling it as if there warn't nobody in it . 
But now , how different . 
But the next time I looked at Tom I got the cold shivers . 
Why , he was in the brownest study you ever see miles and miles away . 
He warn't hearing a word Lem Beebe was saying and when he got through he was still in that brown study , just the same . 
Our lawyer joggled him , and then he looked up startled , and says , Take the witness if you want him . 
Lemme alone I want to think . 
Well , that beat me . 
And Benny and her mother oh , they looked sick , they was so troubled . 
They shoved their veils to one side and tried to get his eye , but it warn't any use , and I couldn't get his eye either . 
So the mud turtle he tackled the witness , but it didn't amount to nothing and he made a mess of it . 
Then they called up Jim Lane , and he told the very same story over again , exact . 
Tom never listened to this one at all , but set there thinking and thinking , miles and miles away . 
So the mud turtle went in alone again and come out just as flat as he done before . 
The lawyer for the prostitution looked very comfortable , but the judge looked disgusted . 
When was that ? Saturday night , September th . 
The judge he spoke up and says Mr. Sheriff , arrest these two witnesses on suspicions of being accessionary after the fact to the murder . 
I beg you to respect the Court . 
Then he called Bill Withers . 
Tom he went on thinking , and never took no notice so our lawyer took the witness and done the best he could , and it was plenty poor enough . 
Then Jack Withers he come on the stand and told the same tale , just like Bill done . 
Then Brace he went on , Saturday , September d , he didn't come home to supper . 
By and by I got a little uneasy , and one of my niggers went over to this prisoner's place , but come back and said he warn't there . 
So I got uneasier and uneasier , and couldn't rest . 
Pretty soon he got another start and says But it warn't no use so at last I went home and tried to get some sleep , but couldn't . 
And so I reckoned he was gone off somers to have a little peace , and would come back to us when his troubles was kind of healed . 
But late Saturday night , the th , Lem Beebe and Jim Lane come to my house and told me all told me the whole awful 'sassination , and my heart was broke . 
I will tell you what that thing was that come back into my memory . 
And by George , Tom Sawyer never looked at him once ! Never once just set there gazing with all his eyes at something else , I couldn't tell what . 
And the whole house the same . 
I never seen people look so helpless and tangled up , and I hain't ever seen eyes bug out and gaze without a blink the way theirn did . 
Them di'monds is worth twelve thousand dollars . 
But never mind about that till I get to it . 
I will tell you all about it how it happened who done it every DEtail . 
You could see everybody nestle now , and begin to listen for all they was worth . 
So he told Uncle Silas he would make him sorry . 
Look at them now how they set there , wishing they hadn't been so handy with their tongues anyway , they'll wish it before I get done . 
That same Saturday evening Bill and Jack Withers DID see one man lugging off another one . 
That much of what they said is true , and the rest is lies . 
First off they thought it was a nigger stealing Uncle Silas's corn you notice it makes them look silly , now , to find out somebody overheard them say that . 
A man out in the moonlight DID see a murdered person put under ground in the tobacker field but it wasn't Uncle Silas that done the burying . 
He was in his bed at that very time . 
That is just what I do only I make an O. And I could see people nodding to one another , same as they do when they mean THAT's so . 
Now , then , I'll go on . 
That same Saturday no , it was the night before there was a steamboat laying at Flagler's Landing , forty miles above here , and it was raining and storming like the nation . 
Well , he hadn't been gone more'n ten minutes be fore his pals found it out , and they jumped ashore and lit out after him . 
Prob'ly they burnt matches and found his tracks . 
But the minute the pals see that thief slide into the bunch of sycamores , they jumped out of the bushes and slid in after him . 
They fell on him and clubbed him to death . 
Yes , for all he screamed and howled so , they never had no mercy on him , but clubbed him to death . 
But only a minute or two then these two new men slipped back very quiet into the syca mores . 
THEN what did they do ? I will tell you what they done . 
They found where the thief had got his disguise out of his carpet sack to put on so one of them strips and puts on that disguise . 
Yes , it was Jubiter Dunlap . 
Not dead , you see . 
Then they pulled off the dead man's boots and put Jubiter Dunlap's old ragged shoes on the corpse and put the corpse's boots on Jubiter Dunlap . 
He stopped , and stood half a minute . 
So when it was all quiet , he says There ain't much left , only this . 
Jubiter broke for the woods to hide , and I reckon the game was for him to slide out , in the night , and leave the country . 
And there they set , now , and I told them they would be looking sick before I got done , and that is the way they're looking now . 
Well , me and Huck went on hunting for the corpse after the others quit , and we found it . 
And was proud , too but Uncle Silas he knocked us crazy by telling us HE killed the man . 
I done everything I could the whole month to think up some way to save Uncle Silas , but I couldn't strike a thing . 
So when we come into court to day I come empty , and couldn't see no chance anywheres . 
I knowed him by a thing which I seen him do and I remem bered it . 
I'd seen him do it when I was here a year ago . 
He stopped then , and studied a minute laying for an effect I knowed it perfectly well . 
Then he turned off like he was going to leave the platform , and says , kind of lazy and indifferent Well , I believe that is all . 
Oh , it wasn't anything much , he says . 
Didn't see any of them ! Why , you've told the whole history straight through , just the same as if you'd seen it with your eyes . 
Nothing of the kind ! Not two in a million could 'a' done it . 
You are a very remarkable boy . 
Then they let go and give Tom another smashing round , and he well , he wouldn't 'a' sold out for a silver mine . 
Then the judge says But are you certain you've got this curious history straight ? Perfectly , your honor . 
Here is Brace Dunlap let him deny his share of it if he wants to take the chance I'll engage to make him wish he hadn't said anything . 
Well , you see HE'S pretty quiet . 
And his brother's pretty quiet , and them four witnesses that lied so and got paid for it , they're pretty quiet . 
Tom he was just feeling like a rainbow . 
When they was done laughing he looks up at the judge and says Your honor , there's a thief in this house . 
A thief ? Yes , sir . 
And he's got them twelve thousand dollar di'monds on him . 
Sheriff , you will arrest him . 
Which one is it ? Tom says This late dead man here Jubiter Dunlap . 
Then there was another thundering let go of astonish ment and excitement but Jubiter , which was astonished enough before , was just fairly putrified with astonish ment this time . 
And he spoke up , about half crying , and says Now THAT'S a lie . 
Your honor , it ain't fair I'm plenty bad enough without that . 
The sheriff can search me and see . 
Tom says Your honor , it wasn't right to call him a thief , and I'll let up on that a little . 
He did steal the di'monds , but he didn't know it . 
Yes , your honor , he's got them on him now . 
The judge spoke up and says Search him , sheriff . 
Then Tom took an attitude and let on to be studying with all his might , and scratching his head . 
Then all of a sudden he glanced up chipper , and says Oh , now I've got it ! I'd forgot . 
Which was a lie , and I knowed it . 
Then he says Will somebody be good enough to lend me a little small screwdriver ? There was one in your brother's hand bag that you smouched , Jubiter . 
but I reckon you didn't fetch it with you . 
I didn't want it , and I give it away . 
That's because you didn't know what it was for . 
And when Tom held up the other di'mond he looked sorrier than ever . 
Well , it was a most exciting time , take it all around , and Tom got cords of glory . 
Then the sheriff he nabbed Brace Dunlap and his crowd , and by and by next month the judge had them up for trial and jailed the whole lot . 
And when the two thousand dollars come , Tom give half of it to me , and never told any body so , which didn't surprise me , because I knowed him . 
END OF TOM SAWYER , DETECTIVE . 
