Electronic Edition by dell wiretap . 
The odd superstitions touched upon were all preva lent among children and slaves in the West at the period of this story that is to say , thirty or forty years ago . 
T O M S A W Y E R CHAPTER I TOM ! No answer . 
What's gone with that boy , I wonder ? You TOM ! No answer . 
The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over them about the room then she put them up and looked out under them . 
She resurrected nothing but the cat . 
There ! I might 'a' thought of that closet . 
What you been doing in there ? Nothing . 
Nothing ! Look at your hands . 
And look at your mouth . 
What IS that truck ? I don't know , aunt . 
It's jam that's what it is . 
Forty times I've said if you didn't let that jam alone I'd skin you . 
The switch hovered in the air the peril was des perate My ! Look behind you , aunt ! The old lady whirled round , and snatched her skirts out of danger . 
The lad fled on the instant , scrambled up the high board fence , and disappeared over it . 
His aunt Polly stood surprised a moment , and then broke into a gentle laugh . 
Can't learn an old dog new tricks , as the saying is . 
I ain't doing my duty by that boy , and that's the Lord's truth , goodness knows . 
Spare the rod and spile the child , as the Good Book says . 
I'm a laying up sin and suffering for us both , I know . 
Every time I let him off , my conscience does hurt me so , and every time I hit him my old heart most breaks . 
Well a well , man that is born of woman is of few days and full of trouble , as the Scripture says , and I reckon it's so . 
He'll play hookey this evening , and Southwestern for afternoon I'll just be obleeged to make him work , to morrow , to punish him . 
Tom did play hookey , and he had a very good time . 
, for he was a quiet boy , and had no adventurous , trouble some ways . 
Said she Tom , it was middling warm in school , warn't it ? Yes'm . 
Powerful warm , warn't it ? Yes'm . 
Didn't you want to go in a swimming , Tom ? A bit of a scare shot through Tom a touch of uncomfortable suspicion . 
He searched Aunt Polly's face , but it told him nothing . 
So he said No'm well , not very much . 
The old lady reached out her hand and felt Tom's shirt , and said But you ain't too warm now , though . 
And it flattered her to reflect that she had discovered that the shirt was dry without anybody knowing that that was what she had in her mind . 
But in spite of her , Tom knew where the wind lay , now . 
So he forestalled what might be the next move Some of us pumped on our heads mine's damp yet . 
See ? Aunt Polly was vexed to think she had overlooked that bit of circumstantial evidence , and missed a trick . 
His shirt collar was securely sewed . 
Bother ! Well , go 'long with you . 
I'd made sure you'd played hookey and been a swimming . 
But I forgive ye , Tom . 
I reckon you're a kind of a singed cat , as the saying is better'n you look . 
She was half sorry her sagacity had miscarried , and half glad that Tom had stumbled into obedient con duct for once . 
But Sidney said Well , now , if I didn't think you sewed his collar with white thread , but it's black . 
Why , I did sew it with white ! Tom ! But Tom did not wait for the rest . 
As he went out at the door he said Siddy , I'll lick you for that . 
He said She'd never noticed if it hadn't been for Sid . 
Confound it ! sometimes she sews it with white , and sometimes she sews it with black . 
I wish to gee miny she'd stick to one or t'other I can't keep the run of 'em . 
But I bet you I'll lam Sid for that . 
I'll learn him ! He was not the Model Boy of the village . 
He knew the model boy very well though and loathed him . 
Within two minutes , or even less , he had forgotten all his troubles . 
This new interest was a valued novelty in whistling , which he had just acquired from a negro , and he was suffering to practise it un disturbed . 
Diligence and attention soon gave him the knack of it , and he strode down the street with his mouth full of harmony and his soul full of gratitude . 
The summer evenings were long . 
It was not dark , yet . 
Presently Tom checked his whistle . 
A stranger was before him a boy a shade larger than himself . 
A new comer of any age or either sex was an im pressive curiosity in the poor little shabby village of St . 
This boy was well dressed , too well dressed on a week day . 
This was simply as tounding . 
His cap was a dainty thing , his close buttoned blue cloth roundabout was new and natty , and so were his pantaloons . 
He had shoes on and it was only Friday . 
He even wore a necktie , a bright bit of ribbon . 
He had a citified air about him that ate into Tom's vitals . 
The more Tom stared at the splendid marvel , the higher he turned up his nose at his finery and the shabbier and shabbier his own outfit seemed to him to grow . 
If one moved , the other moved but only sidewise , in a circle they kept face to face and eye to eye all the time . 
Finally Tom said I can lick you ! I'd like to see you try it . 
Well , I can do it . 
No you can't , either . 
Can ! Can't ! An uncomfortable pause . 
Then Tom said What's your name ? 'Tisn't any of your business , maybe . 
Well I 'low I'll MAKE it my business . 
Well why don't you ? If you say much , I will . 
Oh , you think you're mighty smart , DON'T you ? I could lick you with one hand tied behind me , if I wanted to . 
Well why don't you DO it ? You SAY you can do it . 
Well I WILL , if you fool with me . 
Oh yes I've seen whole families in the same fix . 
Smarty ! You think you're SOME , now , DON'T you ? Oh , what a hat ! You can lump that hat if you don't like it . 
I dare you to knock it off and anybody that'll take a dare will suck eggs . 
You're a liar ! You're another . 
You're a fighting liar and dasn't take it up . 
Aw take a walk ! Say if you give me much more of your sass I'll take and bounce a rock off'n your head . 
Oh , of COURSE you will . 
Well why don't you DO it then ? What do you keep SAYING you will for ? Why don't you DO it ? It's because you're afraid . 
Another pause , and more eying and sidling around each other . 
Presently they were shoulder to shoulder . 
Tom said Get away from here ! Go away yourself ! I won't . 
So they stood , each with a foot placed at an angle as a brace , and both shoving with might and main , and glowering at each other with hate . 
But neither could get an advantage . 
After struggling till both were hot and flushed , each relaxed his strain with watchful caution , and Tom said You're a coward and a pup . 
I'll tell my big brother on you , and he can thrash you with his little finger , and I'll make him do it , too . 
What do I care for your big brother ? I've got a brother that's bigger than he is and what's more , he can throw him over that fence , too . 
YOUR saying so don't make it so . 
Tom drew a line in the dust with his big toe , and said I dare you to step over that , and I'll lick you till you can't stand up . 
Anybody that'll take a dare will steal sheep . 
The new boy stepped over promptly , and said Now you said you'd do it , now let's see you do it . 
Don't you crowd me now you better look out . 
Well , you SAID you'd do it why don't you do it ? By jingo ! for two cents I WILL do it . 
The new boy took two broad coppers out of his pocket and held them out with derision . 
Tom struck them to the ground . 
Presently the confusion took form , and through the fog of battle Tom appeared , seated astride the new boy , and pounding him with his fists . 
Holler 'nuff ! said he . 
The boy only struggled to free himself . 
He was crying mainly from rage . 
Holler 'nuff ! and the pounding went on . 
At last the stranger got out a smothered 'Nuff ! and Tom let him up and said Now that'll learn you . 
Better look out who you're fooling with next time . 
Tom chased the traitor home , and thus found out where he lived . 
He then held a position at the gate for some time , daring the enemy to come out side , but the enemy only made faces at him through the window and declined . 
At last the enemy's mother appeared , and called Tom a bad , vicious , vulgar child , and ordered him away . 
So he went away but he said he 'lowed to lay for that boy . 
CHAPTER II SATURDAY morning was come , and all the summer world was bright and fresh , and brimming with life . 
There was a song in every heart and if the heart was young the music issued at the lips . 
There was cheer in every face and a spring in every step . 
The locust trees were in bloom and the fragrance of the blossoms filled the air . 
Cardiff Hill , beyond the village and above it , was green with vegetation and it lay just far enough away to seem a Delectable Land , dreamy , reposeful , and inviting . 
Tom appeared on the sidewalk with a bucket of whitewash and a long handled brush . 
He surveyed the fence , and all gladness left him and a deep mel ancholy settled down upon his spirit . 
Thirty yards of board fence nine feet high . 
Life to him seemed hollow , and existence but a burden . 
Jim came skipping out at the gate with a tin pail , and singing Buffalo Gals . 
Bringing water from the town pump had always been hateful work in Tom's eyes , before , but now it did not strike him so . 
He remembered that there was company at the pump . 
White , mulatto , and negro boys and girls were always there waiting their turns , resting , trading playthings , quarrelling , fighting , skylarking . 
Tom said Say , Jim , I'll fetch the water if you'll whitewash some . 
Jim shook his head and said Can't , Mars Tom . 
Ole missis , she tole me I got to go an' git dis water an' not stop foolin' roun' wid anybody . 
She say she spec' Mars Tom gwine to ax me to whitewash , an' so she tole me go 'long an' 'tend to my own business she 'lowed SHE'D 'tend to de whitewashin' . 
Oh , never you mind what she said , Jim . 
That's the way she always talks . 
Gimme the bucket I won't be gone only a a minute . 
Oh , I dasn't , Mars Tom . 
Ole missis she'd take an' tar de head off'n me . 
SHE ! She never licks anybody whacks 'em over the head with her thimble and who cares for that , I'd like to know . 
She talks awful , but talk don't hurt anyways it don't if she don't cry . 
Jim , I'll give you a marvel . 
I'll give you a white alley ! Jim began to waver . 
White alley , Jim ! And it's a bully taw . 
My ! Dat's a mighty gay marvel , I tell you ! But Mars Tom I's powerful 'fraid ole missis And besides , if you will I'll show you my sore toe . 
Jim was only human this attraction was too much for him . 
He put down his pail , took the white alley , and bent over the toe with absorbing interest while the bandage was being unwound . 
But Tom's energy did not last . 
He began to think of the fun he had planned for this day , and his sorrows multiplied . 
So he returned his straitened means to his pocket , and gave up the idea of trying to buy the boys . 
At this dark and hopeless moment an inspiration burst upon him ! Nothing less than a great , magnificent inspiration . 
He took up his brush and went tranquilly to work . 
Ben Rogers hove in sight presently the very boy , of all boys , whose ridicule he had been dreading . 
Ben's gait was the hop skip and jump proof enough that his heart was light and his anticipations high . 
Ship up to back ! Ting a ling ling ! His arms straightened and stiffened down his sides . 
Let her go back on the labboard ! Ting a ling ling ! Chow ch chow chow ! The left hand began to describe circles . 
Tom went on whitewashing paid no attention to the steamboat . 
Ben stared a moment and then said Hi YI ! YOU'RE up a stump , ain't you ! No answer . 
Tom surveyed his last touch with the eye of an artist , then he gave his brush another gentle sweep and surveyed the result , as before . 
Ben ranged up alongside of him . 
Tom's mouth watered for the apple , but he stuck to his work . 
Ben said Hello , old chap , you got to work , hey ? Tom wheeled suddenly and said Why , it's you , Ben ! I warn't noticing . 
Say I'm going in a swimming , I am . 
All I know , is , it suits Tom Sawyer . 
Oh come , now , you don't mean to let on that you LIKE it ? The brush continued to move . 
Like it ? Well , I don't see why I oughtn't to like it . 
Does a boy get a chance to whitewash a fence every day ? That put the thing in a new light . 
Ben stopped nibbling his apple . 
Pres ently he said Say , Tom , let ME whitewash a little . 
Tom considered , was about to consent but he altered his mind No no I reckon it wouldn't hardly do , Ben . 
You see , Aunt Polly's awful particular about this fence right here on the street , you know but if it was the back fence I wouldn't mind and SHE wouldn't . 
No is that so ? Oh come , now lemme just try . 
Only just a little I'd let YOU , if you was me , Tom . 
Now don't you see how I'm fixed ? If you was to tackle this fence and anything was to happen to it Oh , shucks , I'll be just as careful . 
Say I'll give you the core of my apple . 
Well , here No , Ben , now don't . 
I'm afeard I'll give you ALL of it ! Tom gave up the brush with reluctance in his face , but alacrity in his heart . 
There was no lack of material boys happened along every little while they came to jeer , but remained to whitewash . 
And when the middle of the afternoon came , from being a poor poverty stricken boy in the morning , Tom was literally rolling in wealth . 
Tom said to himself that it was not such a hollow world , after all . 
And this would help him to understand why constructing artificial flowers or performing on a tread mill is work , while rolling ten pins or climbing Mont Blanc is only amusement . 
The boy mused awhile over the substantial change which had taken place in his worldly circumstances , and then wended toward headquarters to report . 
Her spectacles were propped up on her gray head for safety . 
She had thought that of course Tom had deserted long ago , and she wondered at seeing him place himself in her power again in this intrepid way . 
He said Mayn't I go and play now , aunt ? What , a'ready ? How much have you done ? It's all done , aunt . 
Tom , don't lie to me I can't bear it . 
I ain't , aunt it IS all done . 
Aunt Polly placed small trust in such evidence . 
She went out to see for herself and she would have been content to find twenty per cent . 
of Tom's state ment true . 
When she found the entire fence white washed , and not only whitewashed but elaborately coated and recoated , and even a streak added to the ground , her astonishment was almost unspeakable . 
She said Well , I never ! There's no getting round it , you can work when you're a mind to , Tom . 
And then she diluted the compliment by adding , But it's power ful seldom you're a mind to , I'm bound to say . 
Well , go 'long and play but mind you get back some time in a week , or I'll tan you . 
And while she closed with a happy Scriptural flourish , he hooked a doughnut . 
Then he skipped out , and saw Sid just starting up the outside stairway that led to the back rooms on the second floor . 
Clods were handy and the air was full of them in a twinkling . 
There was a gate , but as a general thing he was too crowded for time to make use of it . 
His soul was at peace , now that he had settled with Sid for calling attention to his black thread and getting him into trouble . 
Tom skirted the block , and came round into a muddy alley that led by the back of his aunt's cow stable . 
Tom's army won a great victory , after a long and hard fought battle . 
The fresh crowned hero fell without firing a shot . 
A certain Amy Lawrence vanished out of his heart and left not even a memory of herself behind . 
He had thought he loved her to distraction he had regarded his passion as adoration and behold it was only a poor little evanescent partiality . 
Tom came up to the fence and leaned on it , grieving , and hoping she would tarry yet awhile longer . 
She halted a moment on the steps and then moved toward the door . 
Tom heaved a great sigh as she put her foot on the threshold . 
But his face lit up , right away , for she tossed a pansy over the fence a moment before she disappeared . 
Finally he strode home reluctantly , with his poor head full of visions . 
All through supper his spirits were so high that his aunt wondered what had got into the child . 
He took a good scolding about clodding Sid , and did not seem to mind it in the least . 
He tried to steal sugar under his aunt's very nose , and got his knuckles rapped for it . 
He said Aunt , you don't whack Sid when he takes it . 
Well , Sid don't torment a body the way you do . 
You'd be always into that sugar if I warn't watching you . 
Presently she stepped into the kitchen , and Sid , happy in his immunity , reached for the sugar bowl a sort of glorying over Tom which was wellnigh un bearable . 
But Sid's fingers slipped and the bowl dropped and broke . 
In such ecstasies that he even controlled his tongue and was silent . 
He was so brimful of exultation that he could hardly hold him self when the old lady came back and stood above the wreck discharging lightnings of wrath from over her spectacles . 
But when she got her tongue again , she only said Umf ! Well , you didn't get a lick amiss , I reckon . 
You been into some other audacious mischief when I wasn't around , like enough . 
So she kept silence , and went about her affairs with a troubled heart . 
Tom sulked in a corner and exalted his woes . 
He knew that in her heart his aunt was on her knees to him , and he was morosely gratified by the consciousness of it . 
He would hang out no signals , he would take notice of none . 
He knew that a yearning glance fell upon him , now and then , through a film of tears , but he refused recognition of it . 
Ah , how would she feel then ? And he pictured himself brought home from the river , dead , with his curls all wet , and his sore heart at rest . 
He wandered far from the accustomed haunts of boys , and sought desolate places that were in har mony with his spirit . 
Then he thought of his flower . 
He got it out , rumpled and wilted , and it mightily increased his dismal felicity . 
At last he rose up sighing and departed in the darkness . 
Tom turned in without the added vexation of prayers , and Sid made mental note of the omission . 
CHAPTER IV THE sun rose upon a tranquil world , and beamed down upon the peaceful village like a benediction . 
Then Tom girded up his loins , so to speak , and went to work to get his verses . 
Sid had learned his lesson days before . 
Tom bent all his energies to the memorizing of five verses , and he chose part of the Sermon on the Mount , because he could find no verses that were shorter . 
Blessed are the poor in spirit , for theirs is the kingdom of heaven . 
You must go and learn it again . 
Don't you be discouraged , Tom , you'll manage it and if you do , I'll give you something ever so nice . 
There , now , that's a good boy . 
All right ! What is it , Mary , tell me what it is . 
Never you mind , Tom . 
You know if I say it's nice , it is nice . 
You bet you that's so , Mary . 
All right , I'll tackle it again . 
And he did tackle it again and under the double pressure of curiosity and prospective gain he did it with such spirit that he accomplished a shining success . 
Mary gave him a brand new Barlow knife worth twelve and a half cents and the convulsion of delight that swept his system shook him to his foundations . 
Tom contrived to scarify the cupboard with it , and was arranging to begin on the bureau , when he was called off to dress for Sunday school . 
But Mary removed the towel and said Now ain't you ashamed , Tom . 
You mustn't be so bad . 
Tom was a trifle disconcerted . 
The basin was refilled , and this time he stood over it a little while , gathering resolution took in a big breath and began . 
When he entered the kitchen presently , with both eyes shut and groping for the towel with his hands , an honorable testimony of suds and water was dripping from his face . 
He now looked exceedingly improved and uncomfortable . 
He was fully as uncomfortable as he looked for there was a restraint about whole clothes and cleanliness that galled him . 
He hoped that Mary would forget his shoes , but the hope was blighted she coated them thoroughly with tallow , as was the custom , and brought them out . 
He lost his temper and said he was always being made to do everything he didn't want to do . 
But Mary said , persuasively Please , Tom that's a good boy . 
So he got into the shoes snarling . 
Mary was soon ready , and the three children set out for Sunday school a place that Tom hated with his whole heart but Sid and Mary were fond of it . 
Sabbath school hours were from nine to half past ten and then church service . 
Two of the children always remained for the sermon voluntarily , and the other always remained too for stronger reasons . 
At the door Tom dropped back a step and accosted a Sunday dressed comrade Say , Billy , got a yaller ticket ? Yes . 
What'll you take for her ? What'll you give ? Piece of lickrish and a fish hook . 
They were satisfactory , and the property changed hands . 
Then Tom traded a couple of white alleys for three red tickets , and some small trifle or other for a couple of blue ones . 
He waylaid other boys as they came , and went on buying tickets of various colors ten or fifteen minutes longer . 
He entered the church , now , with a swarm of clean and noisy boys and girls , proceeded to his seat and started a quarrel with the first boy that came handy . 
Tom's whole class were of a pattern restless , noisy , and troublesome . 
When they came to recite their lessons , not one of them knew his verses perfectly , but had to be prompted all along . 
had always made this boy come out and spread himself . 
In due course the superintendent stood up in front of the pulpit , with a closed hymn book in his hand and his forefinger inserted between its leaves , and commanded attention . 
That is the way good little boys and girls should do . 
And so forth and so on . 
It is not necessary to set down the rest of the oration . 
It was of a pattern which does not vary , and so it is familiar to us all . 
But now every sound ceased suddenly , with the subsidence of Mr. Walters' voice , and the con clusion of the speech was received with a burst of silent gratitude . 
The lady was leading a child . 
Tom had been restless and full of chafings and repinings conscience smitten , too he could not meet Amy Lawrence's eye , he could not brook her loving gaze . 
But when he saw this small new comer his soul was all ablaze with bliss in a moment . 
The visitors were given the highest seat of honor , and as soon as Mr. Walters' speech was finished , he introduced them to the school . 
The awe which these reflections inspired was attested by the impressive silence and the ranks of staring eyes . 
This was the great Judge Thatcher , brother of their own lawyer . 
Jeff Thatcher immediately went forward , to be familiar with the great man and be envied by the school . 
It would have been music to his soul to hear the whisperings Look at him , Jim ! He's a going up there . 
The librarian showed off running hither and thither with his arms full of books and making a deal of the splutter and fuss that insect authority delights in . 
The young lady teachers showed off bending sweetly over pupils that were lately being boxed , lifting pretty warning fingers at bad little boys and patting good ones lovingly . 
The little girls showed off in various ways , and the little boys showed off with such diligence that the air was thick with paper wads and the murmur of scufflings . 
There was only one thing wanting to make Mr. Walters' ecstasy complete , and that was a chance to deliver a Bible prize and exhibit a prodigy . 
Several pupils had a few yellow tickets , but none had enough he had been around among the star pupils inquiring . 
He would have given worlds , now , to have that German lad back again with a sound mind . 
And now at this moment , when hope was dead , Tom Sawyer came forward with nine yellow tickets , nine red tickets , and ten blue ones , and demanded a Bible . 
This was a thunderbolt out of a clear sky . 
Walters was not expecting an application from this source for the next ten years . 
But there was no getting around it here were the certified checks , and they were good for their face . 
Tom was there fore elevated to a place with the Judge and the other elect , and the great news was announced from head quarters . 
These despised themselves , as being the dupes of a wily fraud , a guileful snake in the grass . 
Amy Lawrence was proud and glad , and she tried to make Tom see it in her face but he wouldn't look . 
He would have liked to fall down and worship him , if it were in the dark . 
The Judge put his hand on Tom's head and called him a fine little man , and asked him what his name was . 
The boy stammered , gasped , and got it out Tom . 
Oh , no , not Tom it is Thomas . 
I thought there was more to it , maybe . 
But you've another one I daresay , and you'll tell it to me , won't you ? Tell the gentleman your other name , Thomas , said Walters , and say sir . 
You mustn't forget your manners . 
That's it ! That's a good boy . 
Fine , manly little fellow . 
Two thousand verses is a great many very , very great many . 
And now you wouldn't mind telling me and this lady some of the things you've learned no , I know you wouldn't for we are proud of little boys that learn . 
Now , no doubt you know the names of all the twelve disciples . 
Won't you tell us the names of the first two that were appointed ? Tom was tugging at a button hole and looking sheepish . 
He blushed , now , and his eyes fell . 
Mr. Walters' heart sank within him . 
Now I know you'll tell me , said the lady . 
The names of the first two disciples were DAVID AND GOLIAH ! Let us draw the curtain of charity over the rest of the scene . 
CHAPTER V ABOUT half past ten the cracked bell of the small church began to ring , and pres ently the people began to gather for the morning sermon . 
The Sunday school children distributed themselves about the house and occupied pews with their par ents , so as to be under supervision . 
He always brought his mother to church , and was the pride of all the matrons . 
The boys all hated him , he was so good . 
And besides , he had been thrown up to them so much . 
His white handkerchief was hanging out of his pocket behind , as usual on Sundays accidentally . 
Tom had no handkerchief , and he looked upon boys who had as snobs . 
The choir always tittered and whispered all through service . 
There was once a church choir that was not ill bred , but I have for gotten where it was , now . 
It was a great many years ago , and I can scarcely remember anything about it , but I think it was in some foreign country . 
The minister gave out the hymn , and read it through with a relish , in a peculiar style which was much ad mired in that part of the country . 
After the hymn had been sung , the Rev . 
Often , the less there is to justify a traditional custom , the harder it is to get rid of it . 
And now the minister prayed . 
There was a rustling of dresses , and the standing congregation sat down . 
The boy whose history this book relates did not enjoy the prayer , he only en dured it if he even did that much . 
But with the closing sentence his hand began to curve and steal forward and the instant the Amen was out the fly was a prisoner of war . 
His aunt detected the act and made him let it go . 
Tom counted the pages of the sermon after church he always knew how many pages there had been , but he seldom knew anything else about the discourse . 
How ever , this time he was really interested for a little while . 
Now he lapsed into suffering again , as the dry argu ment was resumed . 
Presently he bethought him of a treasure he had and got it out . 
It was a large black beetle with formidable jaws a pinchbug , he called it . 
It was in a percussion cap box . 
The first thing the beetle did was to take him by the finger . 
A natural fillip followed , the beetle went floundering into the aisle and lit on its back , and the hurt finger went into the boy's mouth . 
The beetle lay there working its helpless legs , unable to turn over . 
Tom eyed it , and longed for it but it was safe out of his reach . 
Other people uninterested in the sermon found relief in the beetle , and they eyed it too . 
Presently a vagrant poodle dog came idling along , sad at heart , lazy with the summer softness and the quiet , weary of captivity , sigh ing for change . 
He spied the beetle the drooping tail lifted and wagged . 
His head nodded , and little by little his chin descended and touched the enemy , who seized it . 
There was a sharp yelp , a flirt of the poodle's head , and the beetle fell a couple of yards away , and lit on its back once more . 
The neighboring spectators shook with a gentle inward joy , several faces went behind fans and hand kerchiefs , and Tom was entirely happy . 
The dog looked foolish , and probably felt so but there was resentment in his heart , too , and a craving for revenge . 
By this time the whole church was red faced and suffocating with suppressed laughter , and the sermon had come to a dead standstill . 
It was a genuine relief to the whole congregation when the ordeal was over and the benediction pronounced . 
Tom Sawyer went home quite cheerful , thinking to himself that there was some satisfaction about divine service when there was a bit of variety in it . 
He had but one marring thought he was willing that the dog should play with his pinchbug , but he did not think it was upright in him to carry it off . 
CHAPTER VI MONDAY morning found Tom Sawyer miserable . 
Monday morning always found him so because it began another week's slow suffering in school . 
He gen erally began that day with wishing he had had no intervening holiday , it made the go ing into captivity and fetters again so much more odious . 
Presently it occurred to him that he wished he was sick then he could stay home from school . 
Here was a vague possibility . 
He can vassed his system . 
No ailment was found , and he investigated again . 
This time he thought he could detect colicky symptoms , and he began to encourage them with considerable hope . 
But they soon grew feeble , and presently died wholly away . 
One of his upper front teeth was loose . 
So he thought he would hold the tooth in reserve for the present , and seek further . 
So the boy eagerly drew his sore toe from under the sheet and held it up for in spection . 
But now he did not know the necessary symptoms . 
However , it seemed well worth while to chance it , so he fell to groaning with considerable spirit . 
But Sid slept on unconscious . 
Tom groaned louder , and fancied that he began to feel pain in the toe . 
Tom was panting with his exertions by this time . 
He took a rest and then swelled himself up and fetched a succession of admirable groans . 
He said , Sid , Sid ! and shook him . 
This course worked well , and Tom began to groan again . 
Sid yawned , stretched , then brought himself up on his elbow with a snort , and began to stare at Tom . 
Sid said Tom ! Say , Tom ! No response . 
Here , Tom ! TOM ! What is the matter , Tom ? And he shook him and looked in his face anxiously . 
Tom moaned out Oh , don't , Sid . 
Why , what's the matter , Tom ? I must call auntie . 
It'll be over by and by , maybe . 
But I must ! DON'T groan so , Tom , it's awful . 
How long you been this way ? Hours . 
Ouch ! Oh , don't stir so , Sid , you'll kill me . 
Tom , why didn't you wake me sooner ? Oh , Tom , DON'T ! It makes my flesh crawl to hear you . 
Tom , what is the matter ? I forgive you everything , Sid . 
Every thing you've ever done to me . 
When I'm gone Oh , Tom , you ain't dying , are you ? Don't , Tom oh , don't . 
Maybe I forgive everybody , Sid . 
Tell 'em so , Sid . 
Tom was suffering in reality , now , so handsomely was his imagination working , and so his groans had gathered quite a genuine tone . 
Sid flew down stairs and said Oh , Aunt Polly , come ! Tom's dying ! Dying ! Yes'm . 
Don't wait come quick ! Rubbage ! I don't believe it ! But she fled up stairs , nevertheless , with Sid and Mary at her heels . 
And her face grew white , too , and her lip trembled . 
This restored her and she said Tom , what a turn you did give me . 
Now you shut up that nonsense and climb out of this . 
The groans ceased and the pain vanished from the toe . 
The boy felt a little foolish , and he said Aunt Polly , it SEEMED mortified , and it hurt so I never minded my tooth at all . 
Your tooth , indeed ! What's the matter with your tooth ? One of them's loose , and it aches perfectly awful . 
There , there , now , don't begin that groaning again . 
Well your tooth IS loose , but you're not going to die about that . 
Mary , get me a silk thread , and a chunk of fire out of the kitchen . 
Tom said Oh , please , auntie , don't pull it out . 
It don't hurt any more . 
I wish I may never stir if it does . 
I don't want to stay home from school . 
By this time the dental instruments were ready . 
The old lady made one end of the silk thread fast to Tom's tooth with a loop and tied the other to the bedpost . 
Then she seized the chunk of fire and suddenly thrust it almost into the boy's face . 
The tooth hung dangling by the bedpost , now . 
But all trials bring their compensations . 
Shortly Tom came upon the juvenile pariah of the village , Huckleberry Finn , son of the town drunkard . 
Tom was like the rest of the respectable boys , in that he envied Huckleberry his gaudy outcast condition , and was un der strict orders not to play with him . 
So he played with him every time he got a chance . 
Huckleberry was always dressed in the cast off clothes of full grown men , and they were in perennial bloom and fluttering with rags . 
Huckleberry came and went , at his own free will . 
In a word , everything that goes to make life precious that boy had . 
So thought every harassed , hampered , respectable boy in St . 
Tom hailed the romantic outcast Hello , Huckleberry ! Hello yourself , and see how you like it . 
What's that you got ? Dead cat . 
Lemme see him , Huck . 
My , he's pretty stiff . 
Where'd you get him ? Bought him off'n a boy . 
What did you give ? I give a blue ticket and a bladder that I got at the slaughter house . 
Where'd you get the blue ticket ? Bought it off'n Ben Rogers two weeks ago for a hoop stick . 
Say what is dead cats good for , Huck ? Good for ? Cure warts with . 
No ! Is that so ? I know something that's better . 
What is it ? Why , spunk water . 
Spunk water ! I wouldn't give a dern for spunk water . 
You wouldn't , wouldn't you ? D'you ever try it ? No , I hain't . 
There now ! Well , what of it ? They'll all lie . 
Leastways all but the nigger . 
But I never see a nigger that WOULDN'T lie . 
Shucks ! Now you tell me how Bob Tanner done it , Huck . 
Why , he took and dipped his hand in a rotten stump where the rain water was . 
In the daytime ? Certainly . 
With his face to the stump ? Yes . 
Did he say anything ? I don't reckon he did . 
Aha ! Talk about trying to cure warts with spunk water such a blame fool way as that ! Why , that ain't a going to do any good . 
Because if you speak the charm's busted . 
Well , that sounds like a good way but that ain't the way Bob Tanner done . 
I've took off thousands of warts off of my hands that way , Huck . 
I play with frogs so much that I've always got considerable many warts . 
Some times I take 'em off with a bean . 
Yes , that's it , Huck that's it though when you're burying it if you say 'Down bean off wart come no more to bother me ! it's better . 
That's the way Joe Harper does , and he's been nearly to Coonville and most everywheres . 
D'you ever try it , Huck ? No , but old Mother Hopkins told me . 
Well , I reckon it's so , then . 
Becuz they say she's a witch . 
Say ! Why , Tom , I KNOW she is . 
Pap says so his own self . 
He come along one day , and he see she was a witching him , so he took up a rock , and if she hadn't dodged , he'd a got her . 
Well , that very night he rolled off'n a shed wher' he was a layin drunk , and broke his arm . 
How did he know she was a witching him ? Lord , pap can tell , easy . 
Pap says when they keep looking at you right stiddy , they're a witching you . 
Becuz when they mumble they're saying the Lord's Prayer backards . 
Say , Hucky , when you going to try the cat ? To night . 
I reckon they'll come after old Hoss Williams to night . 
But they buried him Saturday . 
Didn't they get him Saturday night ? Why , how you talk ! How could their charms work till midnight ? and THEN it's Sunday . 
Dev ils don't slosh around much of a Sunday , I don't reckon . 
I never thought of that . 
Lemme go with you ? Of course if you ain't afeard . 
Will you meow ? Yes and you meow back , if you get a chance . 
I couldn't meow that night , becuz auntie was watching me , but I'll meow this time . 
Say what's that ? Nothing but a tick . 
Where'd you get him ? Out in the woods . 
What'll you take for him ? I don't know . 
I don't want to sell him . 
It's a mighty small tick , anyway . 
Oh , anybody can run a tick down that don't belong to them . 
It's a good enough tick for me . 
Sho , there's ticks a plenty . 
I could have a thou sand of 'em if I wanted to . 
Well , why don't you ? Becuz you know mighty well you can't . 
This is a pretty early tick , I reckon . 
It's the first one I've seen this year . 
Say , Huck I'll give you my tooth for him . 
Tom got out a bit of paper and carefully unrolled it . 
The tempta tion was very strong . 
At last he said Is it genuwyne ? Tom lifted his lip and showed the vacancy . 
Well , all right , said Huckleberry , it's a trade . 
Tom enclosed the tick in the percussion cap box that had lately been the pinchbug's prison , and the boys separated , each feeling wealthier than before . 
When Tom reached the little isolated frame school house , he strode in briskly , with the manner of one who had come with all honest speed . 
He hung his hat on a peg and flung himself into his seat with busi ness like alacrity . 
The master , throned on high in his great splint bottom arm chair , was dozing , lulled by the drowsy hum of study . 
Thomas Sawyer ! Tom knew that when his name was pronounced in full , it meant trouble . 
Sir ! Come up here . 
He instantly said I STOPPED TO TALK WITH HUCKLEBERRY FINN ! The master's pulse stood still , and he stared help lessly . 
The buzz of study ceased . 
The pupils won dered if this foolhardy boy had lost his mind . 
The master said You you did what ? Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn . 
There was no mistaking the words . 
Thomas Sawyer , this is the most astounding con fession I have ever listened to . 
No mere ferule will answer for this offence . 
The master's arm performed until it was tired and the stock of switches notably diminished . 
Then the order followed Now , sir , go and sit with the girls ! And let this be a warning to you . 
He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl hitched herself away from him with a toss of her head . 
Nudges and winks and whispers traversed the room , but Tom sat still , with his arms upon the long , low desk before him , and seemed to study his book . 
By and by attention ceased from him , and the ac customed school murmur rose upon the dull air once more . 
Presently the boy began to steal furtive glances at the girl . 
She observed it , made a mouth at him and gave him the back of her head for the space of a minute . 
When she cautiously faced around again , a peach lay before her . 
Tom gently put it back . 
She thrust it away again , but with less animosity . 
Tom patiently returned it to its place . 
Then she let it remain . 
Tom scrawled on his slate , Please take it I got more . 
The girl glanced at the words , but made no sign . 
Now the boy began to draw something on the slate , hiding his work with his left hand . 
For a time the girl refused to notice but her human curiosity presently began to manifest itself by hardly perceptible signs . 
The boy worked on , ap parently unconscious . 
The girl made a sort of non committal attempt to see , but the boy did not betray that he was aware of it . 
At last she gave in and hesi tatingly whispered Let me see it . 
Tom partly uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with two gable ends to it and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from the chimney . 
Then the girl's interest began to fasten itself upon the work and she forgot everything else . 
When it was finished , she gazed a moment , then whispered It's nice make a man . 
The artist erected a man in the front yard , that resembled a derrick . 
He could have stepped over the house but the girl was not hypercritical she was satisfied with the monster , and whispered It's a beautiful man now make me coming along . 
Tom drew an hour glass with a full moon and straw limbs to it and armed the spreading fingers with a portentous fan . 
The girl said It's ever so nice I wish I could draw . 
It's easy , whispered Tom , I'll learn you . 
Oh , will you ? When ? At noon . 
Do you go home to dinner ? I'll stay if you will . 
What's your name ? Becky Thatcher . 
What's yours ? Oh , I know . 
That's the name they lick me by . 
I'm Tom when I'm good . 
You call me Tom , will you ? Yes . 
Now Tom began to scrawl something on the slate , hiding the words from the girl . 
But she was not backward this time . 
Tom said Oh , it ain't anything . 
You don't want to see . 
Yes I do , indeed I do . 
No I won't deed and deed and double deed won't . 
You won't tell anybody at all ? Ever , as long as you live ? No , I won't ever tell ANYbody . 
Oh , YOU don't want to see ! Now that you treat me so , I WILL see . 
Oh , you bad thing ! And she hit his hand a smart rap , but reddened and looked pleased , never theless . 
Just at this juncture the boy felt a slow , fateful grip closing on his ear , and a steady lifting impulse . 
In that vise he was borne across the house and de posited in his own seat , under a peppering fire of giggles from the whole school . 
Then the master stood over him during a few awful moments , and finally moved away to his throne without saying a word . 
But although Tom's ear tingled , his heart was jubilant . 
As the school quieted down Tom made an honest effort to study , but the turmoil within him was too great . 
CHAPTER VII THE harder Tom tried to fasten his mind on his book , the more his ideas wandered . 
So at last , with a sigh and a yawn , he gave it up . 
It seemed to him that the noon recess would never come . 
The air was utterly dead . 
There was not a breath stirring . 
It was the sleepiest of sleepy days . 
The drowsing murmur of the five and twenty studying scholars soothed the soul like the spell that is in the murmur of bees . 
Tom's heart ached to be free , or else to have something of interest to do to pass the dreary time . 
His hand wandered into his pocket and his face lit up with a glow of gratitude that was prayer , though he did not know it . 
Then furtively the percussion cap box came out . 
He released the tick and put him on the long flat desk . 
Tom's bosom friend sat next him , suffering just as Tom had been , and now he was deeply and grate fully interested in this entertainment in an instant . 
This bosom friend was Joe Harper . 
The two boys were sworn friends all the week , and embattled enemies on Saturdays . 
Joe took a pin out of his lapel and began to assist in exercising the prisoner . 
The sport grew in interest momently . 
Soon Tom said that they were interfering with each other , and neither getting the fullest benefit of the tick . 
So he put Joe's slate on the desk and drew a line down the middle of it from top to bottom . 
All right , go ahead start him up . 
The tick escaped from Tom , presently , and crossed the equator . 
Joe harassed him awhile , and then he got away and crossed back again . 
This change of base occurred often . 
At last luck seemed to settle and abide with Joe . 
At last Tom could stand it no longer . 
The temptation was too strong . 
So he reached out and lent a hand with his pin . 
Joe was angry in a moment . 
Said he Tom , you let him alone . 
I only just want to stir him up a little , Joe . 
No , sir , it ain't fair you just let him alone . 
Blame it , I ain't going to stir him much . 
Let him alone , I tell you . 
I won't ! You shall he's on my side of the line . 
Look here , Joe Harper , whose is that tick ? I don't care whose tick he is he's on my side of the line , and you sha'n't touch him . 
Well , I'll just bet I will , though . 
The boys had been too absorbed to notice the hush that had stolen upon the school awhile before when the master came tiptoeing down the room and stood over them . 
He had contemplated a good part of the performance before he contributed his bit of variety to it . 
I'll go the other way and come it over 'em the same way . 
So the one went off with one group of scholars , and the other with another . 
In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane , and when they reached the school they had it all to themselves . 
Then they sat together , with a slate before them , and Tom gave Becky the pencil and held her hand in his , guiding it , and so created another surprising house . 
When the interest in art began to wane , the two fell to talking . 
Tom was swimming in bliss . 
He said Do you love rats ? No ! I hate them ! Well , I do , too LIVE ones . 
But I mean dead ones , to swing round your head with a string . 
No , I don't care for rats much , anyway . 
What I like is chewing gum . 
Oh , I should say so ! I wish I had some now . 
Do you ? I've got some . 
I'll let you chew it awhile , but you must give it back to me . 
That was agreeable , so they chewed it turn about , and dangled their legs against the bench in excess of contentment . 
Was you ever at a circus ? said Tom . 
Yes , and my pa's going to take me again some time , if I'm good . 
I been to the circus three or four times lots of times . 
Church ain't shucks to a circus . 
There's things going on at a circus all the time . 
I'm going to be a clown in a circus when I grow up . 
Oh , are you ! That will be nice . 
They're so lovely , all spotted up . 
And they get slathers of money most a dollar a day , Ben Rogers says . 
Say , Becky , was you ever engaged ? What's that ? Why , engaged to be married . 
No. Would you like to ? I reckon so . 
What is it like ? Like ? Why it ain't like anything . 
You only just tell a boy you won't ever have anybody but him , ever ever ever , and then you kiss and that's all . 
Any body can do it . 
Kiss ? What do you kiss for ? Why , that , you know , is to well , they always do that . 
Everybody ? Why , yes , everybody that's in love with each other . 
Do you remember what I wrote on the slate ? Ye yes . 
What was it ? I sha'n't tell you . 
Shall I tell YOU ? Ye yes but some other time . 
No , not now to morrow . 
Oh , no , NOW . 
Please , Becky I'll whisper it , I'll whisper it ever so easy . 
Becky hesitating , Tom took silence for consent , and passed his arm about her waist and whispered the tale ever so softly , with his mouth close to her ear . 
And then he added Now you whisper it to me just the same . 
She resisted , for a while , and then said You turn your face away so you can't see , and then I will . 
But you mustn't ever tell anybody WILL you , Tom ? Now you won't , WILL you ? No , indeed , indeed I won't . 
He turned his face away . 
Tom clasped her about her neck and pleaded Now , Becky , it's all done all over but the kiss . 
Don't you be afraid of that it ain't anything at all . 
And he tugged at her apron and the hands . 
By and by she gave up , and let her hands drop her face , all glowing with the struggle , came up and submitted . 
Tom kissed the red lips and said Now it's all done , Becky . 
And always after this , you know , you ain't ever to love anybody but me , and you ain't ever to marry anybody but me , ever never and forever . 
Will you ? No , I'll never love anybody but you , Tom , and I'll never marry anybody but you and you ain't to ever marry anybody but me , either . 
I never heard of it before . 
Oh , it's ever so gay ! Why , me and Amy Lawrence The big eyes told Tom his blunder and he stopped , confused . 
Oh , Tom ! Then I ain't the first you've ever been engaged to ! The child began to cry . 
Tom said Oh , don't cry , Becky , I don't care for her any more . 
Yes , you do , Tom you know you do . 
Tom tried to put his arm about her neck , but she pushed him away and turned her face to the wall , and went on crying . 
Tom tried again , with sooth ing words in his mouth , and was repulsed again . 
Then his pride was up , and he strode away and went outside . 
He stood about , restless and uneasy , for a while , glancing at the door , every now and then , hoping she would repent and come to find him . 
Then he began to feel badly and fear that he was in the wrong . 
It was a hard struggle with him to make new advances , now , but he nerved himself to it and entered . 
She was still standing back there in the corner , sobbing , with her face to the wall . 
He went to her and stood a moment , not knowing exactly how to proceed . 
Then he said hesitatingly Becky , I I don't care for anybody but you . 
Becky , won't you say some thing ? More sobs . 
Then Tom marched out of the house and over the hills and far away , to return to school no more that day . 
Presently Becky began to suspect . 
She ran to the door he was not in sight she flew around to the play yard he was not there . 
Then she called Tom ! Come back , Tom ! She listened intently , but there was no answer . 
She had no companions but silence and loneliness . 
CHAPTER VIII TOM dodged hither and thither through lanes until he was well out of the track of returning scholars , and then fell into a moody jog . 
He crossed a small branch two or three times , because of a prevailing juvenile superstition that to cross water baffled pursuit . 
He entered a dense wood , picked his pathless way to the centre of it , and sat down on a mossy spot under a spreading oak . 
The boy's soul was steeped in melancholy his feelings were in happy accord with his surroundings . 
He sat long with his elbows on his knees and his chin in his hands , meditating . 
If he only had a clean Sunday school record he could be willing to go , and be done with it all . 
Now as to this girl . 
What had he done ? Nothing . 
He had meant the best in the world , and been treated like a dog like a very dog . 
She would be sorry some day maybe when it was too late . 
Ah , if he could only die TEMPORARILY ! But the elastic heart of youth cannot be compressed into one constrained shape long at a time . 
Tom presently began to drift insensibly back into the con cerns of this life again . 
For frivolity and jokes and spotted tights were an offense , when they intruded themselves upon a spirit that was exalted into the vague august realm of the romantic . 
No , he would be a soldier , and return after long years , all war worn and illustrious . 
But no , there was something gaudier even than this . 
He would be a pirate ! That was it ! NOW his future lay plain before him , and glowing with unimaginable splendor . 
He would run away from home and enter upon it . 
He would start the very next morning . 
Therefore he must now begin to get ready . 
He would collect his resources together . 
He went to a rotten log near at hand and began to dig under one end of it with his Barlow knife . 
He soon struck wood that sounded hollow . 
He took it up and disclosed a shapely little treasure house whose bottom and sides were of shingles . 
In it lay a marble . 
The truth was , that a superstition of his had failed , here , which he and all his comrades had always looked upon as infallible . 
But now , this thing had actually and unquestionably failed . 
Tom's whole structure of faith was shaken to its foundations . 
He had many a time heard of this thing succeeding but never of its failing before . 
It did not occur to him that he had tried it several times before , himself , but could never find the hiding places afterward . 
He puzzled over the matter some time , and finally decided that some witch had interfered and broken the charm . 
He thought he would satisfy himself on that point so he searched around till he found a small sandy spot with a little funnel shaped depression in it . 
He dasn't tell ! So it WAS a witch that done it . 
He well knew the futility of trying to contend against witches , so he gave up discouraged . 
But it occurred to him that he might as well have the marble he had just thrown away , and therefore he went and made a patient search for it . 
But he could not find it . 
But it must have fallen short or gone too far so he tried twice more . 
The last repetition was successful . 
The two marbles lay within a foot of each other . 
Just here the blast of a toy tin trumpet came faintly down the green aisles of the forest . 
He presently halted under a great elm , blew an answer ing blast , and then began to tiptoe and look warily out , this way and that . 
He said cautiously to an imag inary company Hold , my merry men ! Keep hid till I blow . 
Now appeared Joe Harper , as airily clad and elab orately armed as Tom . 
Tom called Hold ! Who comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass ? Guy of Guisborne wants no man's pass . 
Who art thou that that Dares to hold such language , said Tom , prompt ing for they talked by the book , from memory . 
Who art thou that dares to hold such language ? I , indeed ! I am Robin Hood , as thy caitiff carcase soon shall know . 
Then art thou indeed that famous outlaw ? Right gladly will I dispute with thee the passes of the merry wood . 
Presently Tom said Now , if you've got the hang , go it lively ! So they went it lively , panting and perspiring with the work . 
By and by Tom shouted Fall ! fall ! Why don't you fall ? I sha'n't ! Why don't you fall yourself ? You're getting the worst of it . 
Why , that ain't anything . 
I can't fall that ain't the way it is in the book . 
The book says , 'Then with one back handed stroke he slew poor Guy of Guis borne . 
You're to turn around and let me hit you in the back . 
There was no getting around the authorities , so Joe turned , received the whack and fell . 
Now , said Joe , getting up , you got to let me kill YOU . 
Why , I can't do that , it ain't in the book . 
Well , it's blamed mean that's all . 
This was satisfactory , and so these adventures were carried out . 
Then Tom became Robin Hood again , and was allowed by the treacherous nun to bleed his strength away through his neglected wound . 
Then he shot the arrow and fell back and would have died , but he lit on a nettle and sprang up too gaily for a corpse . 
They said they would rather be outlaws a year in Sherwood Forest than President of the United States forever . 
CHAPTER IX AT half past nine , that night , Tom and Sid were sent to bed , as usual . 
They said their prayers , and Sid was soon asleep . 
Tom lay awake and waited , in restless impatience . 
When it seemed to him that it must be nearly daylight , he heard the clock strike ten ! This was despair . 
He would have tossed and fidgeted , as his nerves demanded , but he was afraid he might wake Sid . 
So he lay still , and stared up into the dark . 
By and by , out of the stillness , little , scarcely preceptible noises began to emphasize them selves . 
The ticking of the clock began to bring it self into notice . 
Old beams began to crack mysteri ously . 
A measured , muffled snore issued from Aunt Polly's chamber . 
And now the tiresome chirping of a cricket that no human ingenuity could locate , began . 
Next the ghastly ticking of a death watch in the wall at the bed's head made Tom shudder it meant that somebody's days were numbered . 
Then the howl of a far off dog rose on the night air , and was answered by a fainter howl from a remoter distance . 
Tom was in an agony . 
At last he was satisfied that time had ceased and eternity begun he began to doze , in spite of himself the clock chimed eleven , but he did not hear it . 
And then there came , mingling with his half formed dreams , a most mel ancholy caterwauling . 
The raising of a neighboring window disturbed him . 
He meow'd with caution once or twice , as he went then jumped to the roof of the woodshed and thence to the ground . 
Huckleberry Finn was there , with his dead cat . 
The boys moved off and disap peared in the gloom . 
At the end of half an hour they were wading through the tall grass of the graveyard . 
It was a graveyard of the old fashioned Western kind . 
It was on a hill , about a mile and a half from the village . 
It had a crazy board fence around it , which leaned inward in places , and outward the rest of the time , but stood upright nowhere . 
Grass and weeds grew rank over the whole cemetery . 
A faint wind moaned through the trees , and Tom feared it might be the spirits of the dead , complain ing at being disturbed . 
The boys talked little , and only under their breath , for the time and the place and the pervading solemnity and silence oppressed their spirits . 
They found the sharp new heap they were seeking , and ensconced themselves within the protection of three great elms that grew in a bunch within a few feet of the grave . 
Then they waited in silence for what seemed a long time . 
The hooting of a distant owl was all the sound that troubled the dead stillness . 
He must force some talk . 
So he said in a whisper Hucky , do you believe the dead people like it for us to be here ? Huckleberry whispered I wisht I knowed . 
It's awful solemn like , AIN'T it ? I bet it is . 
There was a considerable pause , while the boys canvassed this matter inwardly . 
Then Tom whis pered Say , Hucky do you reckon Hoss Williams hears us talking ? O' course he does . 
Tom , after a pause I wish I'd said Mister Williams . 
But I never meant any harm . 
A body can't be too partic'lar how they talk 'bout these yer dead people , Tom . 
This was a damper , and conversation died again . 
Presently Tom seized his comrade's arm and said Sh ! What is it , Tom ? And the two clung together with beating hearts . 
Sh ! There 'tis again ! Didn't you hear it ? I There ! Now you hear it . 
Lord , Tom , they're coming ! They're coming , sure . 
What'll we do ? I dono . 
Think they'll see us ? Oh , Tom , they can see in the dark , same as cats . 
I wisht I hadn't come . 
Oh , don't be afeard . 
I don't believe they'll bother us . 
We ain't doing any harm . 
If we keep perfectly still , maybe they won't notice us at all . 
I'll try to , Tom , but , Lord , I'm all of a shiver . 
Listen ! The boys bent their heads together and scarcely breathed . 
A muffled sound of voices floated up from the far end of the graveyard . 
Look ! See there ! whispered Tom . 
What is it ? It's devil fire . 
Oh , Tom , this is awful . 
Some vague figures approached through the gloom , swinging an old fashioned tin lantern that freckled the ground with innumerable little spangles of light . 
Presently Huckleberry whispered with a shudder It's the devils sure enough . 
Three of 'em ! Lordy , Tom , we're goners ! Can you pray ? I'll try , but don't you be afeard . 
They ain't going to hurt us . 
'Now I lay me down to sleep , I Sh ! What is it , Huck ? They're HUMANS ! One of 'em is , anyway . 
One of 'em's old Muff Potter's voice . 
No 'tain't so , is it ? I bet I know it . 
Don't you stir nor budge . 
He ain't sharp enough to notice us . 
Drunk , the same as usual , likely blamed old rip ! All right , I'll keep still . 
Red hot ! They're p'inted right , this time . 
Say , Huck , I know another o' them voices it's Injun Joe . 
That's so that murderin' half breed ! I'd druther they was devils a dern sight . 
Here it is , said the third voice and the owner of it held the lantern up and revealed the face of young Doctor Robinson . 
Potter and Injun Joe were carrying a handbarrow with a rope and a couple of shovels on it . 
They cast down their load and began to open the grave . 
The doctor put the lantern at the head of the grave and came and sat down with his back against one of the elm trees . 
He was so close the boys could have touched him . 
Hurry , men ! he said , in a low voice the moon might come out at any moment . 
They growled a response and went on digging . 
For some time there was no noise but the grating sound of the spades discharging their freight of mould and gravel . 
Finally a spade struck upon the coffin with a dull woody accent , and within another minute or two the men had hoisted it out on the ground . 
They pried off the lid with their shovels , got out the body and dumped it rudely on the ground . 
The moon drifted from behind the clouds and exposed the pallid face . 
The barrow was got ready and the corpse placed on it , covered with a blanket , and bound to its place with the rope . 
That's the talk ! said Injun Joe . 
Look here , what does this mean ? said the doctor . 
You required your pay in advance , and I've paid you . 
Yes , and you done more than that , said Injun Joe , approaching the doctor , who was now standing . 
Did you think I'd forget ? The Injun blood ain't in me for nothing . 
And now I've GOT you , and you got to SETTLE , you know ! He was threatening the doctor , with his fist in his face , by this time . 
The doctor struck out suddenly and stretched the ruffian on the ground . 
Presently , when the moon emerged again , Injun Joe was standing over the two forms , contemplating them . 
The doctor murmured inarticulately , gave a long gasp or two and was still . 
The half breed mut tered THAT score is settled damn you . 
Then he robbed the body . 
After which he put the fatal knife in Potter's open right hand , and sat down on the dismantled coffin . 
Three four five minutes passed , and then Potter began to stir and moan . 
His hand closed upon the knife he raised it , glanced at it , and let it fall , with a shudder . 
Then he sat up , pushing the body from him , and gazed at it , and then around him , confusedly . 
Lord , how is this , Joe ? he said . 
It's a dirty business , said Joe , without moving . 
What did you do it for ? I ! I never done it ! Look here ! That kind of talk won't wash . 
Potter trembled and grew white . 
I thought I'd got sober . 
I'd no business to drink to night . 
But it's in my head yet worse'n when we started here . 
I'm all in a muddle can't recollect any thing of it , hardly . 
Tell me , Joe HONEST , now , old feller did I do it ? Joe , I never meant to 'pon my soul and honor , I never meant to , Joe . 
Tell me how it was , Joe . 
Oh , it's awful and him so young and promising . 
Oh , I didn't know what I was a doing . 
I wish I may die this minute if I did . 
It was all on account of the whiskey and the excitement , I reckon . 
I never used a weepon in my life before , Joe . 
I've fought , but never with weepons . 
Joe , don't tell ! Say you won't tell , Joe that's a good feller . 
I always liked you , Joe , and stood up for you , too . 
Don't you remember ? You WON'T tell , WILL you , Joe ? And the poor creature dropped on his knees before the stolid murderer , and clasped his appealing hands . 
No , you've always been fair and square with me , Muff Potter , and I won't go back on you . 
There , now , that's as fair as a man can say . 
Oh , Joe , you're an angel . 
I'll bless you for this the longest day I live . 
And Potter began to cry . 
Come , now , that's enough of that . 
This ain't any time for blubbering . 
You be off yonder way and I'll go this . 
Move , now , and don't leave any tracks be hind you . 
Potter started on a trot that quickly increased to a run . 
The half breed stood looking after him . 
The still ness was complete again , too . 
CHAPTER X THE two boys flew on and on , toward the village , speechless with horror . 
They glanced backward over their shoulders from time to time , apprehensively , as if they feared they might be followed . 
If we can only get to the old tannery before we break down ! whispered Tom , in short catches be tween breaths . 
I can't stand it much longer . 
Huckleberry's hard pantings were his only reply , and the boys fixed their eyes on the goal of their hopes and bent to their work to win it . 
They gained steadily on it , and at last , breast to breast , they burst through the open door and fell grateful and exhausted in the sheltering shadows beyond . 
By and by their pulses slowed down , and Tom whispered Huckleberry , what do you reckon'll come of this ? If Doctor Robinson dies , I reckon hanging'll come of it . 
Do you though ? Why , I KNOW it , Tom . 
That's just what I was thinking to myself , Huck . 
If anybody tells , let Muff Potter do it , if he's fool enough . 
Tom said nothing went on thinking . 
Presently he whispered Huck , Muff Potter don't know it . 
How can he tell ? What's the reason he don't know it ? Because he'd just got that whack when Injun Joe done it . 
He had liquor in him I could see that and besides , he always has . 
Well , when pap's full , you might take and belt him over the head with a church and you couldn't phase him . 
He says so , his own self . 
So it's the same with Muff Potter , of course . 
But if a man was dead sober , I reckon maybe that whack might fetch him I dono . 
After another reflective silence , Tom said Hucky , you sure you can keep mum ? Tom , we GOT to keep mum . 
That Injun devil wouldn't make any more of drownd ing us than a couple of cats , if we was to squeak 'bout this and they didn't hang him . 
Now , look a here , Tom , less take and swear to one another that's what we got to do swear to keep mum . 
Would you just hold hands and swear that we Oh no , that wouldn't do for this . 
Tom's whole being applauded this idea . 
It was deep , and dark , and awful the hour , the circum stances , the surroundings , were in keeping with it . 
Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer swears they will keep mum about This and They wish They may Drop down dead in Their Tracks if They ever Tell and Rot . 
Huckleberry was filled with admiration of Tom's facility in writing , and the sublimity of his language . 
He at once took a pin from his lapel and was going to prick his flesh , but Tom said Hold on ! Don't do that . 
It might have verdigrease on it . 
What's verdigrease ? It's p'ison . 
You just swaller some of it once you'll see . 
So Tom unwound the thread from one of his needles , and each boy pricked the ball of his thumb and squeezed out a drop of blood . 
In time , after many squeezes , Tom managed to sign his initials , using the ball of his little finger for a pen . 
Then he showed Huckleberry how to make an H and an F , and the oath was com plete . 
They buried the shingle close to the wall , with some dismal ceremonies and incantations , and the fetters that bound their tongues were considered to be locked and the key thrown away . 
A figure crept stealthily through a break in the other end of the ruined building , now , but they did not notice it . 
Tom , whispered Huckleberry , does this keep us from EVER telling ALWAYS ? Of course it does . 
It don't make any difference WHAT happens , we got to keep mum . 
We'd drop down dead don't YOU know that ? Yes , I reckon that's so . 
They continued to whisper for some little time . 
Presently a dog set up a long , lugubrious howl just outside within ten feet of them . 
The boys clasped each other suddenly , in an agony of fright . 
Which of us does he mean ? gasped Huckle berry . 
I dono peep through the crack . 
Quick ! No , YOU , Tom ! I can't I can't DO it , Huck ! Please , Tom . 
There 'tis again ! Oh , lordy , I'm thankful ! whispered Tom . 
If Mr. Harbison owned a slave named Bull , Tom would have spoken of him as Harbison's Bull , but a son or a dog of that name was Bull Harbison . 
Oh , that's good I tell you , Tom , I was most scared to death I'd a bet anything it was a STRAY dog . 
The boys' hearts sank once more . 
Oh , my ! that ain't no Bull Harbison ! whispered Huckleberry . 
DO , Tom ! Tom , quaking with fear , yielded , and put his eye to the crack . 
Oh , Tom , I reckon we're goners . 
I reckon there ain't no mistake 'bout where I'LL go to . 
Dad fetch it ! This comes of playing hookey and doing everything a feller's told NOT to do . 
I might a been good , like Sid , if I'd a tried but no , I wouldn't , of course . 
But if ever I get off this time , I lay I'll just WALLER in Sunday schools ! And Tom began to snuffle a little . 
YOU bad ! and Huckleberry began to snuffle too . 
Consound it , Tom Sawyer , you're just old pie , 'long side o' what I am . 
Oh , LORDY , lordy , lordy , I wisht I only had half your chance . 
Tom choked off and whispered Look , Hucky , look ! He's got his BACK to us ! Hucky looked , with joy in his heart . 
Well , he has , by jingoes ! Did he before ? Yes , he did . 
But I , like a fool , never thought . 
Oh , this is bully , you know . 
NOW who can he mean ? The howling stopped . 
Tom pricked up his ears . 
Sh ! What's that ? he whispered . 
Sounds like like hogs grunting . 
No it's some body snoring , Tom . 
That IS it ! Where 'bouts is it , Huck ? I bleeve it's down at 'tother end . 
Pap used to sleep there , sometimes , 'long with the hogs , but laws bless you , he just lifts things when HE snores . 
Besides , I reckon he ain't ever com ing back to this town any more . 
The spirit of adventure rose in the boys' souls once more . 
Hucky , do you das't to go if I lead ? I don't like to , much . 
Tom , s'pose it's Injun Joe ! Tom quailed . 
But presently the temptation rose up strong again and the boys agreed to try , with the understanding that they would take to their heels if the snoring stopped . 
So they went tiptoeing stealth ily down , the one behind the other . 
When they had got to within five steps of the snorer , Tom stepped on a stick , and it broke with a sharp snap . 
The man moaned , writhed a little , and his face came into the moonlight . 
The boys' hearts had stood still , and their hopes too , when the man moved , but their fears passed away now . 
They tip toed out , through the broken weather boarding , and stopped at a little distance to exchange a parting word . 
Oh , geeminy , it's HIM ! exclaimed both boys , in a breath . 
Well , I know that . 
Didn't Gracie Miller fall in the kitchen fire and burn herself terrible the very next Saturday ? Yes , but she ain't DEAD . 
And what's more , she's getting better , too . 
All right , you wait and see . 
She's a goner , just as dead sure as Muff Potter's a goner . 
That's what the niggers say , and they know all about these kind of things , Huck . 
Then they separated , cogitating . 
When Tom crept in at his bedroom window the night was almost spent . 
He undressed with excessive caution , and fell asleep congratulating himself that nobody knew of his esca pade . 
He was not aware that the gently snoring Sid was awake , and had been so for an hour . 
When Tom awoke , Sid was dressed and gone . 
There was a late look in the light , a late sense in the atmosphere . 
Why had he not been called persecuted till he was up , as usual ? The thought filled him with bodings . 
Within five minutes he was dressed and down stairs , feeling sore and drowsy . 
The family were still at table , but they had finished breakfast . 
There was no voice of rebuke but there were averted eyes there was a silence and an air of solemnity that struck a chill to the culprit's heart . 
After breakfast his aunt took him aside , and Tom almost brightened in the hope that he was going to be flogged but it was not so . 
This was worse than a thousand whippings , and Tom's heart was sorer now than his body . 
He left the presence too miserable to even feel re vengeful toward Sid and so the latter's prompt retreat through the back gate was unnecessary . 
His elbow was pressing against some hard substance . 
After a long time he slowly and sadly changed his position , and took up this object with a sigh . 
It was in a paper . 
A long , lingering , colossal sigh followed , and his heart broke . 
It was his brass andiron knob ! This final feather broke the camel's back . 
CHAPTER XI CLOSE upon the hour of noon the whole village was suddenly electrified with the ghastly news . 
Of course the schoolmaster gave holi day for that afternoon the town would have thought strangely of him if he had not . 
A gory knife had been found close to the murdered man , and it had been recognized by somebody as be longing to Muff Potter so the story ran . 
, but that he could not be found . 
Horsemen had departed down all the roads in every direction , and the Sheriff was confident that he would be captured before night . 
All the town was drifting toward the graveyard . 
Arrived at the dreadful place , he wormed his small body through the crowd and saw the dismal spectacle . 
It seemed to him an age since he was there before . 
He turned , and his eyes met Huckle berry's . 
Then both looked elsewhere at once , and wondered if anybody had noticed anything in their mutual glance . 
But everybody was talking , and intent upon the grisly spectacle before them . 
Now Tom shivered from head to heel for his eye fell upon the stolid face of Injun Joe . 
At this moment the crowd began to sway and struggle , and voices shouted , It's him ! it's him ! he's coming himself ! Who ? Who ? from twenty voices . 
Infernal impudence ! said a bystander wanted to come and take a quiet look at his work , I reckon didn't expect any company . 
The crowd fell apart , now , and the Sheriff came through , ostentatiously leading Potter by the arm . 
The poor fellow's face was haggard , and his eyes showed the fear that was upon him . 
When he stood before the murdered man , he shook as with a palsy , and he put his face in his hands and burst into tears . 
I didn't do it , friends , he sobbed 'pon my word and honor I never done it . 
Who's accused you ? shouted a voice . 
This shot seemed to carry home . 
Potter lifted his face and looked around him with a pathetic hope lessness in his eyes . 
He saw Injun Joe , and exclaimed Oh , Injun Joe , you promised me you'd never Is that your knife ? and it was thrust before him by the Sheriff . 
Potter would have fallen if they had not caught him and eased him to the ground . 
Why didn't you leave ? What did you want to come here for ? somebody said . 
I couldn't help it I couldn't help it , Potter moaned . 
I wanted to run away , but I couldn't seem to come anywhere but here . 
And he fell to sobbing again . 
He was now become , to them , the most balefully interesting object they had ever looked upon , and they could not take their fas cinated eyes from his face . 
They inwardly resolved to watch him nights , when opportunity should offer , in the hope of getting a glimpse of his dread master . 
Tom blanched and dropped his eyes . 
It's a bad sign , said Aunt Polly , gravely . 
What you got on your mind , Tom ? Nothing . 
Nothing 't I know of . 
But the boy's hand shook so that he spilled his coffee . 
And you do talk such stuff , Sid said . 
Last night you said , 'It's blood , it's blood , that's what it is ! You said that over and over . 
And you said , 'Don't torment me so I'll tell ! Tell WHAT ? What is it you'll tell ? Everything was swimming before Tom . 
There is no telling what might have happened , now , but luckily the concern passed out of Aunt Polly's face and she came to Tom's relief without knowing it . 
She said Sho ! It's that dreadful murder . 
I dream about it most every night myself . 
Sometimes I dream it's me that done it . 
Mary said she had been affected much the same way . 
Tom got out of the presence as quick as he plausibly could , and after that he complained of toothache for a week , and tied up his jaws every night . 
Tom's distress of mind wore off gradually and the toothache grew irksome and was discarded . 
If Sid really managed to make anything out of Tom's disjointed mutterings , he kept it to him self . 
It seemed to Tom that his schoolmates never would get done holding inquests on dead cats , and thus keeping his trouble present to his mind . 
Sid marvelled , but said nothing . 
How ever , even inquests went out of vogue at last , and ceased to torture Tom's conscience . 
The jail was a trifling little brick den that stood in a marsh at the edge of the village , and no guards were afforded for it indeed , it was seldom occupied . 
These offerings greatly helped to ease Tom's conscience . 
CHAPTER XII ONE of the reasons why Tom's mind had drifted away from its secret troubles was , that it had found a new and weighty matter to interest itself about . 
Becky Thatcher had stopped coming to school . 
Tom had struggled with his pride a few days , and tried to whistle her down the wind , but failed . 
He began to find himself hanging around her father's house , nights , and feeling very miserable . 
What if she should die ! There was dis traction in the thought . 
He no longer took an interest in war , nor even in piracy . 
The charm of life was gone there was nothing but dreariness left . 
He put his hoop away , and his bat there was no joy in them any more . 
She began to try all manner of remedies on him . 
She was one of those people who are infatuated with patent medicines and all new fangled methods of producing health or mending it . 
She was an inveterate experimenter in these things . 
She was a subscriber for all the Health periodicals and phrenological frauds and the solemn ignorance they were inflated with was breath to her nostrils . 
She was as simple hearted and honest as the day was long , and so she was an easy victim . 
She gathered together her quack periodicals and her quack medicines , and thus armed with death , went about on her pale horse , metaphorically speaking , with hell following after . 
But she never suspected that she was not an angel of healing and the balm of Gilead in disguise , to the suffering neighbors . 
The water treatment was new , now , and Tom's low condition was a windfall to her . 
Yet notwithstanding all this , the boy grew more and more melancholy and pale and dejected . 
She added hot baths , sitz baths , shower baths , and plunges . 
The boy remained as dismal as a hearse . 
She began to assist the water with a slim oatmeal diet and blister plasters . 
She calculated his capacity as she would a jug's , and filled him up every day with quack cure alls . 
Tom had become indifferent to persecution by this time . 
This phase filled the old lady's heart with consternation . 
This indifference must be broken up at any cost . 
Now she heard of Pain killer for the first time . 
She ordered a lot at once . 
She tasted it and was filled with gratitude . 
It was simply fire in a liquid form . 
She dropped the water treatment and everything else , and pinned her faith to Pain killer . 
She gave Tom a teaspoonful and watched with the deepest anxiety for the result . 
Her troubles were in stantly at rest , her soul at peace again for the in difference was broken up . 
The boy could not have shown a wilder , heartier interest , if she had built a fire under him . 
So he thought over various plans for relief , and finally hit pon that of professing to be fond of Pain killer . 
He asked for it so often that he became a nuisance , and his aunt ended by telling him to help himself and quit bothering her . 
If it had been Sid , she would have had no misgivings to alloy her delight but since it was Tom , she watched the bottle clandestinely . 
She found that the medicine did really diminish , but it did not occur to her that the boy was mending the health of a crack in the sitting room floor with it . 
One day Tom was in the act of dosing the crack when his aunt's yellow cat came along , purring , ey ing the teaspoon avariciously , and begging for a taste . 
Tom said Don't ask for it unless you want it , Peter . 
But Peter signified that he did want it . 
So Tom pried his mouth open and poured down the Pain killer . 
Next he rose on his hind feet and pranced around , in a frenzy of enjoyment , with his head over his shoulder and his voice pro claiming his unappeasable happiness . 
Then he went tearing around the house again spreading chaos and destruction in his path . 
The old lady stood petrified with astonishment , peering over her glasses Tom lay on the floor expiring with laughter . 
Tom , what on earth ails that cat ? I don't know , aunt , gasped the boy . 
Why , I never see anything like it . 
What did make him act so ? Deed I don't know , Aunt Polly cats always act so when they're having a good time . 
They do , do they ? There was something in the tone that made Tom apprehensive . 
That is , I believe they do . 
The old lady was bending down , Tom watching , with interest emphasized by anxiety . 
Too late he divined her drift . 
The handle of the telltale tea spoon was visible under the bed valance . 
Aunt Polly took it , held it up . 
Tom winced , and dropped his eyes . 
Aunt Polly raised him by the usual handle his ear and cracked his head soundly with her thimble . 
Now , sir , what did you want to treat that poor dumb beast so , for ? I done it out of pity for him because he hadn't any aunt . 
Hadn't any aunt ! you numskull . 
What has that got to do with it ? Heaps . 
This was putting the thing in a new light what was cruelty to a cat MIGHT be cruelty to a boy , too . 
She began to soften she felt sorry . 
Her eyes watered a little , and she put her hand on Tom's head and said gently I was meaning for the best , Tom . 
And , Tom , it DID do you good . 
Tom looked up in her face with just a perceptible twinkle peeping through his gravity . 
I know you was meaning for the best , aunty , and so was I with Peter . 
It done HIM good , too . 
I never see him get around so since Oh , go 'long with you , Tom , before you aggravate me again . 
And you try and see if you can't be a good boy , for once , and you needn't take any more medicine . 
Tom reached school ahead of time . 
It was noticed that this strange thing had been occurring every day latterly . 
And now , as usual of late , he hung about the gate of the schoolyard instead of playing with his comrades . 
He was sick , he said , and he looked it . 
He tried to seem to be looking everywhere but whither he really was looking down the road . 
Presently Jeff Thatcher hove in sight , and Tom's face lighted he gazed a moment , and then turned sorrowfully away . 
When Jeff arrived , Tom accosted him and led up warily to opportunities for remark about Becky , but the giddy lad never could see the bait . 
Tom watched and watched , hoping whenever a frisking frock came in sight , and hating the owner of it as soon as he saw she was not the right one . 
At last frocks ceased to appear , and he dropped hopelessly into the dumps he entered the empty schoolhouse and sat down to suffer . 
Then one more frock passed in at the gate , and Tom's heart gave a great bound . 
But she seemed to be un conscious of it all she never looked . 
He gathered himself up and sneaked off , crushed and crestfallen . 
CHAPTER XIII TOM'S mind was made up now . 
He was gloomy and desperate . 
By this time he was far down Meadow Lane , and the bell for school to take up tinkled faintly upon his ear . 
Then the sobs came thick and fast . 
Just at this point he met his soul's sworn comrade , Joe Harper hard eyed , and with evidently a great and dismal purpose in his heart . 
Plainly here were two souls with but a single thought . 
But it transpired that this was a request which Joe had just been going to make of Tom , and had come to hunt him up for that purpose . 
As the two boys walked sorrowing along , they made a new compact to stand by each other and be brothers and never separate till death relieved them of their troubles . 
Then they began to lay their plans . 
It was not inhabited it lay far over toward the further shore , abreast a dense and almost wholly unpeopled forest . 
So Jackson's Island was chosen . 
Who were to be the subjects of their piracies was a matter that did not occur to them . 
Then they hunted up Huckleberry Finn , and he joined them promptly , for all careers were one to him he was indifferent . 
They presently separated to meet at a lonely spot on the river bank two miles above the village at the favorite hour which was midnight . 
There was a small log raft there which they meant to capture . 
Each would bring hooks and lines , and such provision as he could steal in the most dark and mysterious way as became outlaws . 
And before the afternoon was done , they had all managed to enjoy the sweet glory of spreading the fact that pretty soon the town would hear some thing . 
All who got this vague hint were cautioned to be mum and wait . 
About midnight Tom arrived with a boiled ham and a few trifles , and stopped in a dense undergrowth on a small bluff overlooking the meeting place . 
It was starlight , and very still . 
The mighty river lay like an ocean at rest . 
Tom listened a moment , but no sound disturbed the quiet . 
Then he gave a low , distinct whistle . 
It was answered from under the bluff . 
Tom whistled twice more these signals were answered in the same way . 
Then a guarded voice said Who goes there ? Tom Sawyer , the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main . 
Huck Finn the Red Handed , and Joe Harper the Terror of the Seas . 
Tom had furnished these titles , from his favorite literature . 
There was an easy , com fortable path along the shore under the bluff , but it lacked the advantages of difficulty and danger so val ued by a pirate . 
The Terror of the Seas had brought a side of bacon , and had about worn himself out with getting it there . 
Finn the Red Handed had stolen a skillet and a quan tity of half cured leaf tobacco , and had also brought a few corn cobs to make pipes with . 
But none of the pirates smoked or chewed but himself . 
The Black Avenger of the Spanish Main said it would never do to start without some fire . 
That was a wise thought matches were hardly known there in that day . 
They saw a fire smouldering upon a great raft a hundred yards above , and they went stealthily thither and helped themselves to a chunk . 
They shoved off , presently , Tom in command , Huck at the after oar and Joe at the forward . 
What sail's she carrying ? Courses , tops'ls , and flying jib , sir . 
The river was not high , so there was not more than a two or three mile current . 
Hardly a word was said during the next three quarters of an hour . 
Now the raft was passing before the distant town . 
Two or three glimmering lights showed where it lay , peacefully sleeping , beyond the vague vast sweep of star gemmed water , unconscious of the tremendous event that was happening . 
It was but a small strain on his imagination to remove Jackson's Island beyond eye shot of the village , and so he looked his last with a broken and satisfied heart . 
The other pirates were looking their last , too and they all looked so long that they came near letting the current drift them out of the range of the island . 
But they discovered the danger in time , and made shift to avert it . 
The climbing fire lit up their faces and threw its ruddy glare upon the pillared tree trunks of their forest temple , and upon the varnished foliage and festooning vines . 
When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone , and the last allowance of corn pone devoured , the boys stretched themselves out on the grass , filled with contentment . 
They could have found a cooler place , but they would not deny themselves such a romantic feature as the roasting camp fire . 
AIN'T it gay ? said Joe . 
It's NUTS ! said Tom . 
I don't want nothing better'n this . 
I don't ever get enough to eat , gen'ally and here they can't come and pick at a feller and bullyrag him so . 
It's just the life for me , said Tom . 
You don't have to get up , mornings , and you don't have to go to school , and wash , and all that blame foolishness . 
Oh yes , that's so , said Joe , but I hadn't thought much about it , you know . 
I'd a good deal rather be a pirate , now that I've tried it . 
You see , said Tom , people don't go much on hermits , nowadays , like they used to in old times , but a pirate's always respected . 
But they've GOT to do it . 
You'd have to do that if you was a hermit . 
Dern'd if I would , said Huck . 
Well , what would you do ? I dono . 
But I wouldn't do that . 
Why , Huck , you'd HAVE to . 
How'd you get around it ? Why , I just wouldn't stand it . 
Run away ! Well , you WOULD be a nice old slouch of a hermit . 
The Red Handed made no response , being better employed . 
The other pirates envied him this majestic vice , and secretly resolved to acquire it shortly . 
And they carry the women to the island , said Joe they don't kill the women . 
No , assented Tom , they don't kill the women they're too noble . 
And the women's always beautiful , too . 
And don't they wear the bulliest clothes ! Oh no ! All gold and silver and di'monds , said Joe , with enthusiasm . 
Huck scanned his own clothing forlornly . 
I reckon I ain't dressed fitten for a pirate , said he , with a regretful pathos in his voice but I ain't got none but these . 
But the other boys told him the fine clothes would come fast enough , after they should have begun their adventures . 
They made him understand that his poor rags would do to begin with , though it was customary for wealthy pirates to start with a proper wardrobe . 
Gradually their talk died out and drowsiness began to steal upon the eyelids of the little waifs . 
The pipe dropped from the fingers of the Red Handed , and he slept the sleep of the conscience free and the weary . 
The Terror of the Seas and the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main had more difficulty in getting to sleep . 
Then at once they reached and hovered upon the imminent verge of sleep but an intruder came , now , that would not down . 
They began to feel a vague fear that they had been doing wrong to run away and next they thought of the stolen meat , and then the real torture came . 
So they inwardly resolved that so long as they remained in the business , their piracies should not again be sullied with the crime of stealing . 
Then conscience granted a truce , and these curiously inconsistent pirates fell peacefully to sleep . 
CHAPTER XIV WHEN Tom awoke in the morning , he wondered where he was . 
He sat up and rubbed his eyes and looked around . 
It was the cool gray dawn , and there was a delicious sense of repose and peace in the deep pervading calm and silence of the woods . 
Not a leaf stirred not a sound obtruded upon great Nature's meditation . 
Bead ed dewdrops stood upon the leaves and grasses . 
A white layer of ashes covered the fire , and a thin blue breath of smoke rose straight into the air . 
Joe and Huck still slept . 
Now , far away in the woods a bird called another answered presently the hammering of a woodpecker was heard . 
Gradually the cool dim gray of the morn ing whitened , and as gradually sounds multiplied and life manifested itself . 
The marvel of Nature shaking off sleep and going to work unfolded itself to the musing boy . 
A tumblebug came next , heaving sturdily at its ball , and Tom touched the creature , to see it shut its legs against its body and pretend to be dead . 
The birds were fairly rioting by this time . 
All Nature was wide awake and stirring , now long lances of sunlight pierced down through the dense foliage far and near , and a few butterflies came fluttering upon the scene . 
They felt no longing for the little village sleeping in the distance beyond the majestic waste of water . 
They came back to camp wonderfully refreshed , glad hearted , and ravenous and they soon had the camp fire blazing up again . 
Joe had not had time to get impatient before they were back again with some handsome bass , a couple of sun perch and a small catfish provisions enough for quite a family . 
They fried the fish with the bacon , and were astonished for no fish had ever seemed so delicious before . 
They lay around in the shade , after breakfast , while Huck had a smoke , and then went off through the woods on an exploring expedition . 
Now and then they came upon snug nooks carpeted with grass and jeweled with flowers . 
They found plenty of things to be delighted with , but nothing to be astonished at . 
They took a swim about every hour , so it was close upon the middle of the afternoon when they got back to camp . 
They were too hungry to stop to fish , but they fared sumptuously upon cold ham , and then threw themselves down in the shade to talk . 
But the talk soon began to drag , and then died . 
The stillness , the solemnity that brooded in the woods , and the sense of loneliness , began to tell upon the spirits of the boys . 
A sort of unde fined longing crept upon them . 
This took dim shape , presently it was budding homesickness . 
Even Finn the Red Handed was dreaming of his doorsteps and empty hogsheads . 
But they were all ashamed of their weakness , and none was brave enough to speak his thought . 
But now this mysterious sound be came more pronounced , and forced a recognition . 
The boys started , glanced at each other , and then each as sumed a listening attitude . 
There was a long silence , profound and unbroken then a deep , sullen boom came floating down out of the distance . 
What is it ! exclaimed Joe , under his breath . 
I wonder , said Tom in a whisper . 
'Tain't thunder , said Huckleberry , in an awed tone , becuz thunder Hark ! said Tom . 
They waited a time that seemed an age , and then the same muffled boom troubled the solemn hush . 
They sprang to their feet and hurried to the shore toward the town . 
They parted the bushes on the bank and peered out over the water . 
The little steam ferry boat was about a mile below the village , drifting with the current . 
Her broad deck seemed crowded with people . 
There were a great many skiffs rowing about or floating with the stream in the neighborhood of the ferryboat , but the boys could not determine what the men in them were doing . 
Yes , and they take loaves of bread and put quicksilver in 'em and set 'em afloat , and wherever there's anybody that's drownded , they'll float right there and stop . 
Yes , I've heard about that , said Joe . 
I wonder what makes the bread do that . 
Oh , it ain't the bread , so much , said Tom I reckon it's mostly what they SAY over it before they start it out . 
But they don't say anything over it , said Huck . 
I've seen 'em and they don't . 
Well , that's funny , said Tom . 
But maybe they say it to themselves . 
Any body might know that . 
By jings , I wish I was over there , now , said Joe . 
I do too said Huck I'd give heaps to know who it is . 
The boys still listened and watched . 
Presently a revealing thought flashed through Tom's mind , and he exclaimed Boys , I know who's drownded it's us ! They felt like heroes in an instant . 
It was worth while to be a pirate , after all . 
As twilight drew on , the ferryboat went back to her accustomed business and the skiffs disappeared . 
The pirates returned to camp . 
They were jubilant with vanity over their new grandeur and the illustrious trouble they were making . 
But when the shadows of night closed them in , they gradually ceased to talk , and sat gazing into the fire , with their minds evidently wandering elsewhere . 
The excitement was gone , now , and Tom and Joe could not keep back thoughts of certain persons at home who were not enjoying this fine frolic as much as they were . 
Misgivings came they grew troubled and unhappy a sigh or two escaped , unawares . 
Mutiny was effectually laid to rest for the moment . 
As the night deepened , Huck began to nod , and presently to snore . 
Tom lay upon his elbow motionless , for some time , watching the two intently . 
At last he got up cautiously , on his knees , and went searching among the grass and the flickering reflections flung by the camp fire . 
He picked up and inspected several large semi cylinders of the thin white bark of a sycamore , and finally chose two which seemed to suit him . 
Then he tiptoed his way cautiously among the trees till he felt that he was out of hearing , and straightway broke into a keen run in the direction of the sandbar . 
CHAPTER XV A FEW minutes later Tom was in the shoal water of the bar , wading toward the Illinois shore . 
Before the depth reached his middle he was half way over the cur rent would permit no more wading , now , so he struck out confidently to swim the remaining hundred yards . 
He swam quartering up stream , but still was swept downward rather faster than he had expected . 
However , he reached the shore finally , and drifted along till he found a low place and drew himself out . 
He put his hand on his jacket pocket , found his piece of bark safe , and then struck through the woods , following the shore , with streaming garments . 
Shortly before ten o'clock he came out into an open place opposite the village , and saw the ferryboat lying in the shadow of the trees and the high bank . 
Every thing was quiet under the blinking stars . 
He laid himself down under the thwarts and waited , panting . 
Presently the cracked bell tapped and a voice gave the order to cast off . 
A minute or two later the skiff's head was standing high up , against the boat's swell , and the voyage was begun . 
Tom felt happy in his success , for he knew it was the boat's last trip for the night . 
He flew along unfrequented alleys , and shortly found himself at his aunt's back fence . 
He climbed over , approached the ell , and looked in at the sitting room window , for a light was burning there . 
There sat Aunt Polly , Sid , Mary , and Joe Harper's mother , grouped together , talking . 
They were by the bed , and the bed was between them and the door . 
What makes the candle blow so ? said Aunt Polly . 
Why , that door's open , I believe . 
Why , of course it is . 
No end of strange things now . 
Go 'long and shut it , Sid . 
Tom disappeared under the bed just in time . 
He lay and breathed himself for a time , and then crept to where he could almost touch his aunt's foot . 
But as I was saying , said Aunt Polly , he warn't BAD , so to say only mischEEvous . 
Only just giddy , and harum scarum , you know . 
He warn't any more responsible than a colt . 
HE never meant any harm , and he was the best hearted boy that ever was and she began to cry . 
Little did I know then , how soon Oh , if it was to do over again I'd hug him and bless him for it . 
Yes , yes , yes , I know just how you feel , Mrs. Harper , I know just exactly how you feel . 
No longer ago than yesterday noon , my Tom took and filled the cat full of Pain killer , and I did think the cretur would tear the house down . 
And God forgive me , I cracked Tom's head with my thimble , poor boy , poor dead boy . 
But he's out of all his troubles now . 
And the last words I ever heard him say was to reproach But this memory was too much for the old lady , and she broke entirely down . 
Tom was snuffling , now , himself and more in pity of himself than anybody else . 
He could hear Mary crying , and putting in a kindly word for him from time to time . 
He began to have a nobler opinion of himself than ever before . 
If the bodies continued missing until Sunday , all hope would be given over , and the funerals would be preached on that morning . 
Mrs. Harper gave a sobbing good night and turned to go . 
Then with a mutual impulse the two bereaved women flung themselves into each other's arms and had a good , consoling cry , and then parted . 
Aunt Polly was tender far beyond her wont , in her good night to Sid and Mary . 
Sid snuffled a bit and Mary went off crying with all her heart . 
He had to keep still long after she went to bed , for she kept making broken hearted ejaculations from time to time , tossing unrestfully , and turning over . 
But at last she was still , only moaning a little in her sleep . 
Now the boy stole out , rose gradually by the bedside , shaded the candle light with his hand , and stood re garding her . 
His heart was full of pity for her . 
He took out his sycamore scroll and placed it by the candle . 
But something occurred to him , and he lingered con sidering . 
His face lighted with a happy solution of his thought he put the bark hastily in his pocket . 
Then he bent over and kissed the faded lips , and straightway made his stealthy exit , latching the door behind him . 
He untied the skiff at the stern , slipped into it , and was soon rowing cautiously up stream . 
When he had pulled a mile above the village , he started quartering across and bent himself stoutly to his work . 
He hit the landing on the other side neatly , for this was a familiar bit of work to him . 
So he stepped ashore and entered the woods . 
He sat down and took a long rest , torturing him self meanwhile to keep awake , and then started warily down the home stretch . 
The night was far spent . 
It was broad daylight before he found himself fairly abreast the island bar . 
He rested again until the sun was well up and gilding the great river with its splendor , and then he plunged into the stream . 
A little later he paused , dripping , upon the threshold of the camp , and heard Joe say No , Tom's true blue , Huck , and he'll come back . 
He knows that would be a disgrace to a pirate , and Tom's too proud for that sort of thing . 
He's up to something or other . 
Now I wonder what ? Well , the things is ours , anyway , ain't they ? Pretty near , but not yet , Huck . 
The writing says they are if he ain't back here to breakfast . 
Which he is ! exclaimed Tom , with fine dramatic effect , stepping grandly into camp . 
A sumptuous breakfast of bacon and fish was shortly provided , and as the boys set to work upon it , Tom recounted his adventures . 
They were a vain and boastful company of heroes when the tale was done . 
Then Tom hid himself away in a shady nook to sleep till noon , and the other pirates got ready to fish and explore . 
CHAPTER XVI AFTER dinner all the gang turned out to hunt for turtle eggs on the bar . 
They went about poking sticks into the sand , and when they found a soft place they went down on their knees and dug with their hands . 
Sometimes they would take fifty or sixty eggs out of one hole . 
They were perfectly round white things a trifle smaller than an English walnut . 
They had a famous fried egg feast that night , and another on Friday morning . 
Next they got their marbles and played knucks and ring taw and keeps till that amusement grew stale . 
He did not vent ure again until he had found it , and by that time the other boys were tired and ready to rest . 
They gradually wandered apart , dropped into the dumps , and fell to gazing longingly across the wide river to where the village lay drowsing in the sun . 
Tom found himself writing BECKY in the sand with his big toe he scratched it out , and was angry with himself for his weakness . 
But he wrote it again , nevertheless he could not help it . 
He erased it once more and then took himself out of temptation by driving the other boys together and joining them . 
But Joe's spirits had gone down almost beyond resurrection . 
He was so homesick that he could hardly endure the misery of it . 
The tears lay very near the surface . 
Huck was melancholy , too . 
Tom was down hearted , but tried hard not to show it . 
He had a secret which he was not ready to tell , yet , but if this mutinous depression was not broken up soon , he would have to bring it out . 
He said , with a great show of cheerfulness I bet there's been pirates on this island before , boys . 
They've hid treasures here somewhere . 
How'd you feel to light on a rotten chest full of gold and silver hey ? But it roused only faint enthusiasm , which faded out , with no reply . 
Tom tried one or two other seductions but they failed , too . 
Joe sat poking up the sand with a stick and looking very gloomy . 
Finally he said Oh , boys , let's give it up . 
I want to go home . 
Oh no , Joe , you'll feel better by and by , said Tom . 
Just think of the fishing that's here . 
I don't care for fishing . 
I want to go home . 
But , Joe , there ain't such another swimming place anywhere . 
I don't seem to care for it , somehow , when there ain't anybody to say I sha'n't go in . 
I mean to go home . 
Oh , shucks ! Baby ! You want to see your mother , I reckon . 
Yes , I DO want to see my mother and you would , too , if you had one . 
I ain't any more baby than you are . 
And Joe snuffled a little . 
Well , we'll let the cry baby go home to his mother , won't we , Huck ? Poor thing does it want to see its mother ? And so it shall . 
You like it here , don't you , Huck ? We'll stay , won't we ? Huck said , Y e s without any heart in it . 
I'll never speak to you again as long as I live , said Joe , rising . 
There now ! And he moved moodily away and began to dress himself . 
Who cares ! said Tom . 
Go 'long home and get laughed at . 
Oh , you're a nice pirate . 
Huck and me ain't cry babies . 
We'll stay , won't we , Huck ? Let him go if he wants to . 
I reckon we can get along without him , per'aps . 
But Tom was uneasy , nevertheless , and was alarmed to see Joe go sullenly on with his dressing . 
And then it was discomforting to see Huck eying Joe's prepara tions so wistfully , and keeping up such an ominous silence . 
Presently , without a parting word , Joe began to wade off toward the Illinois shore . 
Tom's heart began to sink . 
Huck could not bear the look , and dropped his eyes . 
Then he said I want to go , too , Tom . 
It was getting so lone some anyway , and now it'll be worse . 
Let's us go , too , Tom . 
I won't ! You can all go , if you want to . 
Tom , I better go . 
Well , go 'long who's hendering you . 
Huck began to pick up his scattered clothes . 
He said Tom , I wisht you'd come , too . 
Now you think it over . 
We'll wait for you when we get to shore . 
Well , you'll wait a blame long time , that's all . 
Huck started sorrowfully away , and Tom stood looking after him , with a strong desire tugging at his heart to yield his pride and go along too . 
He hoped the boys would stop , but they still waded slowly on . 
It suddenly dawned on Tom that it was become very lonely and still . 
The lads came gayly back and went at their sports again with a will , chattering all the time about Tom's stupendous plan and admiring the genius of it . 
After a dainty egg and fish dinner , Tom said he wanted to learn to smoke , now . 
Joe caught at the idea and said he would like to try , too . 
So Huck made pipes and filled them . 
These novices had never smoked anything before but cigars made of grape vine , and they bit the tongue , and were not considered manly anyway . 
Now they stretched themselves out on their elbows and began to puff , charily , and with slender confi dence . 
So would I , said Joe . 
Why , many a time I've looked at people smoking , and thought well I wish I could do that but I never thought I could , said Tom . 
That's just the way with me , hain't it , Huck ? You've heard me talk just that way haven't you , Huck ? I'll leave it to Huck if I haven't . 
Yes heaps of times , said Huck . 
Well , I have too , said Tom oh , hundreds of times . 
Once down by the slaughter house . 
Don't you remember , Huck ? Bob Tanner was there , and Johnny Miller , and Jeff Thatcher , when I said it . 
Don't you remember , Huck , 'bout me saying that ? Yes , that's so , said Huck . 
That was the day after I lost a white alley . 
No , 'twas the day before . 
There I told you so , said Tom . 
I bleeve I could smoke this pipe all day , said Joe . 
Neither do I , said Tom . 
I could smoke it all day . 
But I bet you Jeff Thatcher couldn't . 
Jeff Thatcher ! Why , he'd keel over just with two draws . 
Just let him try it once . 
HE'D see ! I bet he would . 
And Johnny Miller I wish could see Johnny Miller tackle it once . 
Oh , don't I ! said Joe . 
Why , I bet you Johnny Miller couldn't any more do this than nothing . 
Just one little snifter would fetch HIM . 
'Deed it would , Joe . 
Say I wish the boys could see us now . 
And I'll say , 'Oh , that's all right , if it's STRONG enough . 
But presently it began to flag a trifle , and grow disjointed . 
The silences widened the expectoration marvellously increased . 
Both boys were looking very pale and miserable , now . 
Joe's pipe dropped from his nerveless fingers . 
Both fountains were going furiously and both pumps bailing with might and main . 
Joe said feebly I've lost my knife . 
I reckon I better go and find it . 
Tom said , with quivering lips and halting utterance I'll help you . 
You go over that way and I'll hunt around by the spring . 
No , you needn't come , Huck we can find it . 
So Huck sat down again , and waited an hour . 
Then he found it lonesome , and went to find his comrades . 
They were wide apart in the woods , both very pale , both fast asleep . 
But something informed him that if they had had any trouble they had got rid of it . 
They were not talkative at supper that night . 
About midnight Joe awoke , and called the boys . 
There was a brooding oppressiveness in the air that seemed to bode something . 
The boys huddled them selves together and sought the friendly companionship of the fire , though the dull dead heat of the breathless atmosphere was stifling . 
They sat still , intent and waiting . 
Beyond the light of the fire everything was swallowed up in the blackness of darkness . 
Presently there came a quiver ing glow that vaguely revealed the foliage for a moment and then vanished . 
By and by another came , a little stronger . 
Now a weird flash turned night into day and showed every little grass blade , separate and distinct , that grew about their feet . 
And it showed three white , startled faces , too . 
A deep peal of thunder went rolling and tumbling down the heavens and lost itself in sullen rumblings in the distance . 
A sweep of chilly air passed by , rustling all the leaves and snow ing the flaky ashes broadcast about the fire . 
Another fierce glare lit up the forest and an instant crash followed that seemed to rend the tree tops right over the boys' heads . 
They clung together in terror , in the thick gloom that followed . 
A few big rain drops fell patter ing upon the leaves . 
Quick ! boys , go for the tent ! exclaimed Tom . 
They sprang away , stumbling over roots and among vines in the dark , no two plunging in the same direction . 
A furious blast roared through the trees , making every thing sing as it went . 
One blinding flash after another came , and peal on peal of deafening thunder . 
And now a drenching rain poured down and the rising hurricane drove it in sheets along the ground . 
The boys cried out to each other , but the roaring wind and the boom ing thunder blasts drowned their voices utterly . 
They could not talk , the old sail flapped so furiously , even if the other noises would have allowed them . 
The tempest rose higher and higher , and presently the sail tore loose from its fastenings and went winging away on the blast . 
The boys seized each others' hands and fled , with many tumblings and bruises , to the shelter of a great oak that stood upon the river bank . 
Now the battle was at its highest . 
It was a wild night for homeless young heads to be out in . 
But at last the battle was done , and the forces re tired with weaker and weaker threatenings and grum blings , and peace resumed her sway . 
Everything in camp was drenched , the camp fire as well for they were but heedless lads , like their generation , and had made no provision against rain . 
Here was matter for dismay , for they were soaked through and chilled . 
Then they piled on great dead boughs till they had a roar ing furnace , and were glad hearted once more . 
As the sun began to steal in upon the boys , drowsiness came over them , and they went out on the sandbar and lay down to sleep . 
They got scorched out by and by , and drearily set about getting breakfast . 
After the meal they felt rusty , and stiff jointed , and a little home sick once more . 
Tom saw the signs , and fell to cheer ing up the pirates as well as he could . 
But they cared nothing for marbles , or circus , or swimming , or any thing . 
He reminded them of the imposing secret , and raised a ray of cheer . 
While it lasted , he got them in terested in a new device . 
This was to knock off being pirates , for a while , and be Indians for a change . 
By and by they separated into three hostile tribes , and darted upon each other from ambush with dread ful war whoops , and killed and scalped each other by thousands . 
It was a gory day . 
Consequently it was an extremely satisfactory one . 
There was no other process that ever they had heard of . 
Two of the savages almost wished they had remained pirates . 
However , there was no other way so with such show of cheerfulness as they could muster they called for the pipe and took their whiff as it passed , in due form . 
They were not likely to fool away this high promise for lack of effort . 
No , they practised cautiously , after supper , with right fair success , and so they spent a jubilant evening . 
They were prouder and happier in their new acquirement than they would have been in the scalping and skinning of the Six Nations . 
We will leave them to smoke and chat ter and brag , since we have no further use for them at present . 
CHAPTER XVII BUT there was no hilarity in the little town that same tranquil Saturday afternoon . 
The Harpers , and Aunt Polly's family , were being put into mourning , with great grief and many tears . 
An unusual quiet possessed the village , although it was or dinarily quiet enough , in all conscience . 
The villagers conducted their concerns with an absent air , and talked little but they sighed often . 
The Saturday holiday seemed a burden to the children . 
They had no heart in their sports , and gradually gave them up . 
In the afternoon Becky Thatcher found herself moping about the deserted schoolhouse yard , and feeling very melancholy . 
But she found nothing there to comfort her . 
She soliloquized Oh , if I only had a brass andiron knob again ! But I haven't got anything now to remember him by . 
And she choked back a little sob . 
Presently she stopped , and said to herself It was right here . 
Oh , if it was to do over again , I wouldn't say that I wouldn't say it for the whole world . 
But he's gone now I'll never , never , never see him any more . 
This thought broke her down , and she wandered away , with tears rolling down her cheeks . 
One poor chap , who had no other grandeur to offer , said with tolerably manifest pride in the remembrance Well , Tom Sawyer he licked me once . 
But that bid for glory was a failure . 
Most of the boys could say that , and so that cheapened the dis tinction too much . 
The group loitered away , still re calling memories of the lost heroes , in awed voices . 
When the Sunday school hour was finished , the next morning , the bell began to toll , instead of ringing in the usual way . 
It was a very still Sabbath , and the mournful sound seemed in keeping with the musing hush that lay upon nature . 
The villagers began to gather , loitering a moment in the vestibule to converse in whispers about the sad event . 
But there was no whispering in the house only the funereal rustling of dresses as the women gathered to their seats disturbed the silence there . 
None could remember when the little church had been so full before . 
There was another communing silence , broken at intervals by muffled sobs , and then the minister spread his hands abroad and prayed . 
A moving hymn was sung , and the text followed I am the Resurrection and the Life . 
He wavered , and started to slink away , but Tom seized him and said Aunt Polly , it ain't fair . 
Somebody's got to be glad to see Huck . 
I'm glad to see him , poor motherless thing ! And the loving attentions Aunt Polly lavished upon him were the one thing capable of making him more uncomfortable than he was before . 
Suddenly the minister shouted at the top of his voice Praise God from whom all blessings flow SING ! and put your hearts in it ! And they did . 
As the sold congregation trooped out they said they would almost be willing to be made ridiculous again to hear Old Hundred sung like that once more . 
CHAPTER XVIII THAT was Tom's great secret the scheme to return home with his brother pirates and attend their own funerals . 
At breakfast , Monday morning , Aunt Polly and Mary were very loving to Tom , and very attentive to his wants . 
There was an unusual amount of talk . 
Yes , you could have done that , Tom , said Mary and I believe you would if you had thought of it . 
Would you , Tom ? said Aunt Polly , her face light ing wistfully . 
Say , now , would you , if you'd thought of it ? I well , I don't know . 
'Twould 'a' spoiled every thing . 
Tom , I hoped you loved me that much , said Aunt Polly , with a grieved tone that discomforted the boy . 
It would have been something if you'd cared enough to THINK of it , even if you didn't DO it . 
Now , auntie , that ain't any harm , pleaded Mary it's only Tom's giddy way he is always in such a rush that he never thinks of anything . 
And Sid would have come and DONE it , too . 
Tom , you'll look back , some day , when it's too late , and wish you'd cared a little more for me when it would have cost you so little . 
Now , auntie , you know I do care for you , said Tom . 
I'd know it better if you acted more like it . 
I wish now I'd thought , said Tom , with a re pentant tone but I dreamt about you , anyway . 
That's something , ain't it ? It ain't much a cat does that much but it's bet ter than nothing . 
Well , so we did . 
I'm glad your dreams could take even that much trouble about us . 
And I dreamt that Joe Harper's mother was here . 
Why , she was here ! Did you dream any more ? Oh , lots . 
But it's so dim , now . 
Well , try to recollect can't you ? Somehow it seems to me that the wind the wind blowed the the Try harder , Tom ! The wind did blow something . 
Oh , yes you said you believed the door was open . 
Well , for the land's sake ! I never heard the beat of that in all my days ! Don't tell ME there ain't anything in dreams , any more . 
Sereny Harper shall know of this before I'm an hour older . 
I'd like to see her get around THIS with her rubbage 'bout superstition . 
Go on , Tom ! Oh , it's all getting just as bright as day , now . 
Next you said I warn't BAD , only mischeevous and harum scarum , and not any more responsible than than I think it was a colt , or something . 
And so it was ! Well , goodness gracious ! Go on , Tom ! And then you began to cry . 
Not the first time , neither . 
Yes you did , Sid , said Mary . 
I lay I did ! There must 'a' been an angel there . 
It happened just so ! It happened just so , as sure as I'm a sitting in these very tracks . 
It was very kind , even though it was only a dream , Sid soliloquized just audibly . 
Shut up , Sid ! A body does just the same in a dream as he'd do if he was awake . 
Here's a big Milum apple I've been saving for you , Tom , if you was ever found again now go 'long to school . 
Go 'long Sid , Mary , Tom take yourselves off you've hendered me long enough . 
The children left for school , and the old lady to call on Mrs. Harper and vanquish her realism with Tom's marvellous dream . 
Sid had better judgment than to utter the thought that was in his mind as he left the house . 
And indeed it was he tried not to seem to see the looks or hear the remarks as he passed along , but they were food and drink to him . 
Boys of his own size pretended not to know he had been away at all but they were consuming with envy , nevertheless . 
They would have given anything to have that swarthy sun tanned skin of his , and his glittering notoriety and Tom would not have parted with either for a circus . 
They began to tell their ad ventures to hungry listeners but they only began it was not a thing likely to have an end , with imaginations like theirs to furnish material . 
And finally , when they got out their pipes and went serenely puffing around , the very summit of glory was reached . 
Tom decided that he could be independent of Becky Thatcher now . 
He would live for glory . 
Now that he was distinguished , maybe she would be wanting to make up . 
Well , let her she should see that he could be as indifferent as some other people . 
Tom pretended not to see her . 
He moved away and joined a group of boys and girls and began to talk . 
Presently she gave over sky larking , and moved irresolutely about , sighing once or twice and glancing furtively and wistfully toward Tom . 
Then she observed that now Tom was talking more particularly to Amy Lawrence than to any one else . 
She felt a sharp pang and grew disturbed and uneasy at once . 
She tried to go away , but her feet were treacherous , and carried her to the group instead . 
Did you ? Why , it's funny I didn't see you . 
I wanted to tell you about the picnic . 
Who's going to give it ? My ma's going to let me have one . 
Oh , goody I hope she'll let ME come . 
She'll let any body come that I want , and I want you . 
When is it going to be ? By and by . 
Oh , may I come ? said Grace Miller . 
And me ? said Sally Rogers . 
And me , too ? said Susy Harper . 
And so on , with clapping of joyful hands till all the group had begged for invitations but Tom and Amy . 
Then Tom turned coolly away , still talking , and took Amy with him . 
Then she sat moody , with wounded pride , till the bell rang . 
She roused up , now , with a vindictive cast in her eye , and gave her plaited tails a shake and said she knew what SHE'D do . 
At recess Tom continued his flirtation with Amy with jubilant self satisfaction . 
And he kept drifting about to find Becky and lacerate her with the per formance . 
At last he spied her , but there was a sudden falling of his mercury . 
Jealousy ran red hot through Tom's veins . 
He began to hate himself for throwing away the chance Becky had offered for a reconciliation . 
He called himself a fool , and all the hard names he could think of . 
He wanted to cry with vexation . 
Amy chatted happily along , as they walked , for her heart was singing , but Tom's tongue had lost its function . 
He did not hear what Amy was saying , and whenever she paused expectantly he could only stammer an awkward assent , which was as often misplaced as otherwise . 
He kept drifting to the rear of the school house , again and again , to sear his eyeballs with the hateful spectacle there . 
He could not help it . 
And it maddened him to see , as he thought he saw , that Becky Thatcher never once suspected that he was even in the land of the living . 
But she did see , nevertheless and she knew she was winning her fight , too , and was glad to see him suffer as she had suffered . 
Amy's happy prattle became intolerable . 
Tom hint ed at things he had to attend to things that must be done and time was fleeting . 
But in vain the girl chirped on . 
And he hastened away , hating her for it . 
Any other boy ! Tom thought , grating his teeth . 
Tom fled home at noon . 
His conscience could not endure any more of Amy's grateful happiness , and his jealousy could bear no more of the other distress . 
At last she grew entirely miserable and wished she hadn't carried it so far . 
Then Alfred went musing into the deserted school house . 
He was humiliated and angry . 
He easily guessed his way to the truth the girl had simply made a convenience of him to vent her spite upon Tom Sawyer . 
He was far from hating Tom the less when this thought occurred to him . 
He wished there was some way to get that boy into trouble without much risk to himself . 
Tom's spelling book fell under his eye . 
He gratefully opened to the lesson for the afternoon and poured ink upon the page . 
Becky , glancing in at a window behind him at the moment , saw the act , and moved on , without discover ing herself . 
She started homeward , now , intending to find Tom and tell him Tom would be thankful and their troubles would be healed . 
Before she was half way home , however , she had changed her mind . 
The thought of Tom's treatment of her when she was talking about her picnic came scorching back and filled her with shame . 
She resolved to let him get whipped on the damaged spelling book's account , and to hate him forever , into the bargain . 
Tom , I don't know what is to become of a boy that will act like that . 
It makes me feel so bad to think you could let me go to Sereny Harper and make such a fool of myself and never say a word . 
This was a new aspect of the thing . 
His smartness of the morning had seemed to Tom a good joke be fore , and very ingenious . 
It merely looked mean and shabby now . 
He hung his head and could not think of anything to say for a moment . 
Then he said Auntie , I wish I hadn't done it but I didn't think . 
Oh , child , you never think . 
You never think of anything but your own selfishness . 
Auntie , I know now it was mean , but I didn't mean to be mean . 
And besides , I didn't come over here to laugh at you that night . 
What did you come for , then ? It was to tell you not to be uneasy about us , be cause we hadn't got drownded . 
Indeed and 'deed I did , auntie I wish I may never stir if I didn't . 
Oh , Tom , don't lie don't do it . 
It only makes things a hundred times worse . 
It ain't a lie , auntie it's the truth . 
I wanted to keep you from grieving that was all that made me come . 
I'd give the whole world to believe that it would cover up a power of sins , Tom . 
I'd 'most be glad you'd run off and acted so bad . 
So I just put the bark back in my pocket and kept mum . 
What bark ? The bark I had wrote on to tell you we'd gone pirating . 
I wish , now , you'd waked up when I kissed you I do , honest . 
The hard lines in his aunt's face relaxed and a sud den tenderness dawned in her eyes . 
DID you kiss me , Tom ? Why , yes , I did . 
Are you sure you did , Tom ? Why , yes , I did , auntie certain sure . 
What did you kiss me for , Tom ? Because I loved you so , and you laid there moaning and I was so sorry . 
The words sounded like truth . 
The moment he was gone , she ran to a closet and got out the ruin of a jacket which Tom had gone pirating in . 
Then she stopped , with it in her hand , and said to herself No , I don't dare . 
Poor boy , I reckon he's lied about it but it's a blessed , blessed lie , there's such a comfort come from it . 
I hope the Lord I KNOW the Lord will forgive him , because it was such good heartedness in him to tell it . 
But I don't want to find out it's a lie . 
She put the jacket away , and stood by musing a minute . 
Twice she put out her hand to take the garment again , and twice she refrained . 
Once more she ventured , and this time she fortified herself with the thought It's a good lie it's a good lie I won't let it grieve me . 
So she sought the jacket pocket . 
He started to school and had the luck of coming upon Becky Thatcher at the head of Meadow Lane . 
His mood always determined his manner . 
Without a moment's hesitation he ran to her and said I acted mighty mean to day , Becky , and I'm so sorry . 
I'll never speak to you again . 
She tossed her head and passed on . 
Tom was so stunned that he had not even presence of mind enough to say Who cares , Miss Smarty ? until the right time to say it had gone by . 
But he was in a fine rage , nevertheless . 
He moped into the schoolyard wishing she were a boy , and imagining how he would trounce her if she were . 
He presently encountered her and delivered a stinging remark as he passed . 
She hurled one in return , and the angry breach was complete . 
If she had had any linger ing notion of exposing Alfred Temple , Tom's offensive fling had driven it entirely away . 
Poor girl , she did not know how fast she was near ing trouble herself . 
The master , Mr. Dobbins , had reached middle age with an unsatisfied ambition . 
The darling of his desires was , to be a doctor , but poverty had decreed that he should be nothing higher than a village schoolmaster . 
Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk and absorbed himself in it at times when no classes were reciting . 
He kept that book un der lock and key . 
There was not an urchin in school but was perishing to have a glimpse of it , but the chance never came . 
Every boy and girl had a theory about the nature of that book but no two theories were alike , and there was no way of getting at the facts in the case . 
Now , as Becky was passing by the desk , which stood near the door , she noticed that the key was in the lock ! It was a precious moment . 
She glanced around found herself alone , and the next instant she had the book in her hands . 
The title page Professor Some body's ANATOMY carried no information to her mind so she began to turn the leaves . 
She came at once upon a handsomely engraved and colored frontispiece a hu man figure , stark naked . 
At that moment a shadow fell on the page and Tom Sawyer stepped in at the door and caught a glimpse of the picture . 
Becky snatched at the book to close it , and had the hard luck to tear the pictured page half down the middle . 
She thrust the volume into the desk , turned the key , and burst out crying with shame and vexation . 
Tom Sawyer , you are just as mean as you can be , to sneak up on a person and look at what they're looking at . 
Then she stamped her little foot and said BE so mean if you want to ! I know something that's going to happen . 
You just wait and you'll see ! Hateful , hateful , hateful ! and she flung out of the house with a new explosion of crying . 
Tom stood still , rather flustered by this onslaught . 
Then he'll do just the way he always does ask first one and then t'other , and when he comes to the right girl he'll know it , without any telling . 
Girls' faces always tell on them . 
They ain't got any backbone . 
Well , it's a kind of a tight place for Becky Thatcher , because there ain't any way out of it . 
In a few moments the master arrived and school took in . 
Tom did not feel a strong interest in his studies . 
Every time he stole a glance at the girls' side of the room Becky's face troubled him . 
Considering all things , he did not want to pity her , and yet it was all he could do to help it . 
He could get up no exultation that was really worthy the name . 
Presently the spell ing book discovery was made , and Tom's mind was en tirely full of his own matters for a while after that . 
Becky roused up from her lethargy of distress and showed good interest in the proceedings . 
She did not expect that Tom could get out of his trouble by denying that he spilt the ink on the book himself and she was right . 
The denial only seemed to make the thing worse for Tom . 
Becky supposed she would be glad of that , and she tried to believe she was glad of it , but she found she was not certain . 
A whole hour drifted by , the master sat nodding in his throne , the air was drowsy with the hum of study . 
Most of the pupils glanced up languidly , but there were two among them that watched his movements with in tent eyes . 
Mr. Dobbins fingered his book absently for a while , then took it out and settled himself in his chair to read ! Tom shot a glance at Becky . 
He had seen a hunted and helpless rabbit look as she did , with a gun levelled at its head . 
Instantly he forgot his quarrel with her . 
Quick something must be done ! done in a flash , too ! But the very imminence of the emergency paralyzed his invention . 
Good ! he had an inspira tion ! He would run and snatch the book , spring through the door and fly . 
But his resolution shook for one little instant , and the chance was lost the master opened the volume . 
If Tom only had the wasted opportunity back again ! Too late . 
There was no help for Becky now , he said . 
The next moment the master faced the school . 
Every eye sank under his gaze . 
There was that in it which smote even the innocent with fear . 
There was silence while one might count ten the master was gathering his wrath . 
Then he spoke Who tore this book ? There was not a sound . 
One could have heard a pin drop . 
The stillness continued the master searched face after face for signs of guilt . 
Benjamin Rogers , did you tear this book ? A denial . 
Joseph Harper , did you ? Another denial . 
Tom's uneasiness grew more and more intense under the slow torture of these proceedings . 
The master scanned the ranks of boys considered a while , then turned to the girls Amy Lawrence ? A shake of the head . 
Gracie Miller ? The same sign . 
Susan Harper , did you do this ? Another negative . 
The next girl was Becky Thatcher . 
Tom was trembling from head to foot with excitement and a sense of the hopelessness of the situation . 
He sprang to his feet and shouted I done it ! The school stared in perplexity at this incredible folly . 
The school master , always severe , grew severer and more exacting than ever , for he wanted the school to make a good showing on Examination day . 
His rod and his ferule were seldom idle now at least among the smaller pupils . 
Only the biggest boys , and young ladies of eighteen and twenty , escaped lashing . 
As the great day approached , all the tyranny that was in him came to the surface he seemed to take a vin dictive pleasure in punishing the least shortcomings . 
The consequence was , that the smaller boys spent their days in terror and suffering and their nights in plotting revenge . 
They threw away no opportunity to do the master a mischief . 
But he kept ahead all the time . 
The retribution that followed every vengeful success was so sweeping and majestic that the boys always retired from the field badly worsted . 
At last they con spired together and hit upon a plan that promised a dazzling victory . 
They swore in the sign painter's boy , told him the scheme , and asked his help . 
He had his own reasons for being delighted , for the master boarded in his father's family and had given the boy ample cause to hate him . 
In the fulness of time the interesting occasion ar rived . 
At eight in the evening the schoolhouse was brilliantly lighted , and adorned with wreaths and fes toons of foliage and flowers . 
The master sat throned in his great chair upon a raised platform , with his blackboard behind him . 
He was looking tolerably mellow . 
Three rows of benches on each side and six rows in front of him were occupied by the dignitaries of the town and by the parents of the pupils . 
All the rest of the house was filled with non participating scholars . 
A very little boy stood up and sheepishly recited , You'd scarce expect one of my age to speak in public on the stage , etc . 
accompany ing himself with the painfully exact and spasmodic gestures which a machine might have used supposing the machine to be a trifle out of order . 
But he got through safely , though cruelly scared , and got a fine round of applause when he made his manufactured bow and retired . 
A little shamefaced girl lisped , Mary had a little lamb , etc . 
, performed a compassion inspiring curtsy , got her meed of applause , and sat down flushed and happy . 
A ghastly stage fright seized him , his legs quaked under him and he was like to choke . 
True , he had the manifest sympathy of the house but he had the house's silence , too , which was even worse than its sympathy . 
The master frowned , and this com pleted the disaster . 
Tom struggled awhile and then retired , utterly defeated . 
There was a weak attempt at applause , but it died early . 
The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck followed also The Assyrian Came Down , and other declama tory gems . 
Then there were reading exercises , and a spelling fight . 
The meagre Latin class recited with honor . 
The prime feature of the evening was in order , now original compositions by the young ladies . 
, and proceeded to read , with labored attention to expression and punctuation . 
Friend ship was one Memories of Other Days Religion in History Dream Land The Advantages of Culture Forms of Political Government Compared and Contrasted Melancholy Filial Love Heart Longings , etc . 
No matter what the subject might be , a brain racking effort was made to squirm it into some aspect or other that the moral and religious mind could contemplate with edification . 
Let us return to the Examination . 
In fancy , the voluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid the festive throng , 'the observed of all observers . 
Her graceful form , arrayed in snowy robes , is whirling through the mazes of the joyous dance her eye is brightest , her step is lightest in the gay assembly . 
In such delicious fancies time quickly glides by , and the welcome hour arrives for her entrance into the Elysian world , of which she has had such bright dreams . 
How fairy like does everything appear to her enchanted vision ! Each new scene is more charming than the last . 
There was a buzz of grati fication from time to time during the reading , accom panied by whispered ejaculations of How sweet ! How eloquent ! So true ! etc . 
, and after the thing had closed with a peculiarly afflicting sermon the applause was enthusiastic . 
Then arose a slim , melancholy girl , whose face had the interesting paleness that comes of pills and indi gestion , and read a poem . 
She moved like one of those bright beings pictured in the sunny walks of fancy's Eden by the romantic and young , a queen of beauty unadorned save by her own transcendent loveliness . 
This nightmare occupied some ten pages of manu script and wound up with a sermon so destructive of all hope to non Presbyterians that it took the first prize . 
This composition was considered to be the very finest effort of the evening . 
But he made a sad business of it with his unsteady hand , and a smothered titter rippled over the house . 
He knew what the matter was , and set himself to right it . 
He sponged out lines and remade them but he only distorted them more than ever , and the tittering was more pronounced . 
He threw his entire attention upon his work , now , as if determined not to be put down by the mirth . 
He felt that all eyes were fastened upon him he imagined he was succeeding , and yet the titter ing continued it even manifestly increased . 
CHAPTER XXII TOM joined the new order of Cadets of Temperance , being attracted by the showy character of their regalia . 
He promised to abstain from smoking , chewing , and profanity as long as he remained a mem ber . 
Dur ing three days Tom was deeply concerned about the Judge's condition and hungry for news of it . 
Some times his hopes ran high so high that he would venture to get out his regalia and practise before the looking glass . 
But the Judge had a most discouraging way of fluctuating . 
At last he was pronounced upon the mend and then convalescent . 
Tom was disgusted and felt a sense of injury , too . 
He handed in his res ignation at once and that night the Judge suffered a relapse and died . 
Tom resolved that he would never trust a man like that again . 
The funeral was a fine thing . 
The Cadets paraded in a style calculated to kill the late member with envy . 
Tom was a free boy again , however there was some thing in that . 
He could drink and swear , now but found to his surprise that he did not want to . 
The simple fact that he could , took the desire away , and the charm of it . 
Tom presently wondered to find that his coveted vacation was beginning to hang a little heavily on his hands . 
He attempted a diary but nothing happened dur ing three days , and so he abandoned it . 
The first of all the negro minstrel shows came to town , and made a sensation . 
Tom and Joe Harper got up a band of performers and were happy for two days . 
, Mr. Benton , an actual United States Senator , proved an overwhelming disappointment for he was not twenty five feet high , nor even anywhere in the neighborhood of it . 
The boys played circus for three days afterward in tents made of rag carpeting ad mission , three pins for boys , two for girls and then circusing was abandoned . 
A phrenologist and a mesmerizer came and went again and left the village duller and drearier than ever . 
There were some boys and girls' parties , but they were so few and so delightful that they only made the aching voids between ache the harder . 
Becky Thatcher was gone to her Constantinople home to stay with her parents during vacation so there was no bright side to life anywhere . 
The dreadful secret of the murder was a chronic misery . 
It was a very cancer for permanency and pain . 
During two long weeks Tom lay a prisoner , dead to the world and its happenings . 
He was very ill , he was interested in nothing . 
When he got upon his feet at last and moved feebly down town , a melancholy change had come over everything and every creature . 
There had been a revival , and everybody had got religion , not only the adults , but even the boys and girls . 
Tom went about , hoping against hope for the sight of one blessed sinful face , but disappointment crossed him everywhere . 
He found Joe Harper study ing a Testament , and turned sadly away from the de pressing spectacle . 
He sought Ben Rogers , and found him visiting the poor with a basket of tracts . 
He hunted up Jim Hollis , who called his attention to the precious blessing of his late measles as a warning . 
And that night there came on a terrific storm , with driving rain , awful claps of thunder and blinding sheets of lightning . 
He covered his head with the bedclothes and waited in a horror of suspense for his doom for he had not the shadow of a doubt that all this hubbub was about him . 
He believed he had taxed the forbearance of the powers above to the extremity of endurance and that this was the result . 
By and by the tempest spent itself and died without accomplishing its object . 
The boy's first impulse was to be grateful , and reform . 
His second was to wait for there might not be any more storms . 
The next day the doctors were back Tom had re lapsed . 
The three weeks he spent on his back this time seemed an entire age . 
When he got abroad at last he was hardly grateful that he had been spared , remem bering how lonely was his estate , how companionless and forlorn he was . 
He found Joe Harper and Huck Finn up an alley eating a stolen melon . 
Poor lads ! they like Tom had suffered a relapse . 
CHAPTER XXIII AT last the sleepy atmosphere was stirred and vigorously the murder trial came on in the court . 
It became the absorbing topic of village talk immediately . 
Tom could not get away from it . 
It kept him in a cold shiver all the time . 
He took Huck to a lonely place to have a talk with him . 
It would be some relief to unseal his tongue for a little while to divide his burden of distress with another suf ferer . 
Moreover , he wanted to assure himself that Huck had remained discreet . 
Huck , have you ever told anybody about that ? 'Bout what ? You know what . 
Never a word ? Never a solitary word , so help me . 
What makes you ask ? Well , I was afeard . 
Why , Tom Sawyer , we wouldn't be alive two days if that got found out . 
They ain't no different way . 
Well , that's all right , then . 
I reckon we're safe as long as we keep mum . 
But let's swear again , any way . 
So they swore again with dread solemnities . 
What is the talk around , Huck ? I've heard a power of it . 
Talk ? Well , it's just Muff Potter , Muff Potter , Muff Potter all the time . 
It keeps me in a sweat , con stant , so's I want to hide som'ers . 
That's just the same way they go on round me . 
I reckon he's a goner . 
Don't you feel sorry for him , sometimes ? Most always most always . 
He ain't no account but then he hain't ever done anything to hurt anybody . 
Just fishes a little , to get money to get drunk on and loafs around considerable but lord , we all do that leastways most of us preachers and such like . 
Well , he's mended kites for me , Huck , and knitted hooks on to my line . 
I wish we could get him out of there . 
My ! we couldn't get him out , Tom . 
And besides , 'twouldn't do any good they'd ketch him again . 
But I hate to hear 'em abuse him so like the dickens when he never done that . 
I do too , Tom . 
Lord , I hear 'em say he's the bloodiest looking villain in this country , and they won der he wasn't ever hung before . 
Yes , they talk like that , all the time . 
I've heard 'em say that if he was to get free they'd lynch him . 
And they'd do it , too . 
The boys had a long talk , but it brought them little comfort . 
But nothing happened there seemed to be no angels or fairies interested in this luckless captive . 
The boys did as they had often done before went to the cell grating and gave Potter some tobacco and matches . 
He was on the ground floor and there were no guards . 
His gratitude for their gifts had always smote their consciences before it cut deeper than ever , this time . 
They felt cowardly and treacherous to the last degree when Potter said You've been mighty good to me , boys better'n any body else in this town . 
And I don't forget it , I don't . 
Right , and BEST , too , I reckon hope so , anyway . 
Well , we won't talk about that . 
I don't want to make YOU feel bad you've befriended me . 
But what I want to say , is , don't YOU ever get drunk then you won't ever get here . 
Good friendly faces good friendly faces . 
Git up on one another's backs and let me touch 'em . 
Shake hands yourn'll come through the bars , but mine's too big . 
Little hands , and weak but they've helped Muff Potter a power , and they'd help him more if they could . 
Tom went home miserable , and his dreams that night were full of horrors . 
The next day and the day after , he hung about the court room , drawn by an al most irresistible impulse to go in , but forcing himself to stay out . 
Huck was having the same experience . 
They studiously avoided each other . 
Each wandered away , from time to time , but the same dismal fascina tion always brought them back presently . 
Tom kept his ears open when idlers sauntered out of the court room , but invariably heard distressing news the toils were closing more and more relentlessly around poor Potter . 
Tom was out late , that night , and came to bed through the window . 
He was in a tremendous state of excite ment . 
It was hours before he got to sleep . 
All the village flocked to the court house the next morning , for this was to be the great day . 
Both sexes were about equally represented in the packed audience . 
There was an other pause , and then the judge arrived and the sheriff proclaimed the opening of the court . 
The usual whis perings among the lawyers and gathering together of papers followed . 
These details and accompanying delays worked up an atmosphere of preparation that was as impressive as it was fascinating . 
After some further ques tioning , counsel for the prosecution said Take the witness . 
The prisoner raised his eyes for a moment , but dropped them again when his own counsel said I have no questions to ask him . 
The next witness proved the finding of the knife near the corpse . 
Counsel for the prosecution said Take the witness . 
I have no questions to ask him , Potter's lawyer replied . 
A third witness swore he had often seen the knife in Potter's possession . 
Counsel for Potter declined to question him . 
The faces of the audience began to betray annoyance . 
Did this attorney mean to throw away his client's life without an effort ? Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter's guilty behavior when brought to the scene of the murder . 
They were allowed to leave the stand without being cross questioned . 
The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the house expressed itself in mur murs and provoked a reproof from the bench . 
We rest our case here . 
A groan escaped from poor Potter , and he put his face in his hands and rocked his body softly to and fro , while a painful silence reigned in the court room . 
Many men were moved , and many women's com passion testified itself in tears . 
We have changed our mind . 
We shall not offer that plea . 
Then to the clerk Call Thomas Sawyer ! A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in the house , not even excepting Potter's . 
Every eye fast ened itself with wondering interest upon Tom as he rose and took his place upon the stand . 
The boy looked wild enough , for he was badly scared . 
Thomas Sawyer , where were you on the seventeenth of June , about the hour of midnight ? Tom glanced at Injun Joe's iron face and his tongue failed him . 
The audience listened breathless , but the words refused to come . 
You were In the graveyard . 
A contemptuous smile flitted across Injun Joe's face . 
Were you anywhere near Horse Williams' grave ? Yes , sir . 
Speak up just a trifle louder . 
How near were you ? Near as I am to you . 
Were you hidden , or not ? I was hid . 
Where ? Behind the elms that's on the edge of the grave . 
Injun Joe gave a barely perceptible start . 
Any one with you ? Yes , sir . 
I went there with Wait wait a moment . 
Never mind mentioning your companion's name . 
We will produce him at the proper time . 
Did you carry anything there with you . 
Tom hesitated and looked confused . 
Speak out , my boy don't be diffident . 
The truth is always respectable . 
What did you take there ? Only a a dead cat . 
There was a ripple of mirth , which the court checked . 
We will produce the skeleton of that cat . 
Now , my boy , tell us everything that occurred tell it in your own way don't skip anything , and don't be afraid . 
His name even went into immortal print , for the village paper magnified him . 
There were some that believed he would be President , yet , if he escaped hanging . 
As usual , the fickle , unreasoning world took Muff Potter to its bosom and fondled him as lavishly as it had abused him before . 
But that sort of conduct is to the world's credit therefore it is not well to find fault with it . 
Tom's days were days of splendor and exultation to him , but his nights were seasons of horror . 
Injun Joe infested all his dreams , and always with doom in his eye . 
Hardly any temptation could persuade the boy to stir abroad after nightfall . 
Daily Muff Potter's gratitude made Tom glad he had spoken but nightly he wished he had sealed up his tongue . 
Half the time Tom was afraid Injun Joe would never be captured the other half he was afraid he would be . 
He felt sure he never could draw a safe breath again until that man was dead and he had seen the corpse . 
Rewards had been offered , the country had been scoured , but no Injun Joe was found . 
One of those omniscient and awe inspiring marvels , a detective , came up from St . 
Louis , moused around , shook his head , looked wise , and made that sort of astounding success which members of that craft usually achieve . 
That is to say , he found a clew . 
But you can't hang a clew for murder , and so after that detec tive had got through and gone home , Tom felt just as insecure as he was before . 
The slow days drifted on , and each left behind it a slightly lightened weight of apprehension . 
CHAPTER XXV THERE comes a time in every rightly constructed boy's life when he has a raging desire to go somewhere and dig for hidden treasure . 
This desire sud denly came upon Tom one day . 
He sal lied out to find Joe Harper , but failed of success . 
Next he sought Ben Rogers he had gone fishing . 
Presently he stumbled upon Huck Finn the Red Handed . 
Tom took him to a private place and opened the matter to him confi dentially . 
Where'll we dig ? said Huck . 
Why , is it hid all around ? No , indeed it ain't . 
Who hides it ? Why , robbers , of course who'd you reckon ? Sun day school sup'rintendents ? I don't know . 
If 'twas mine I wouldn't hide it I'd spend it and have a good time . 
So would I. But robbers don't do that way . 
They always hide it and leave it there . 
Don't they come after it any more ? No , they think they will , but they generally forget the marks , or else they die . 
HyroQwhich ? Hy'roglyphics pictures and things , you know , that don't seem to mean anything . 
Have you got one of them papers , Tom ? No. Well then , how you going to find the marks ? I don't want any marks . 
They always bury it under a ha'nted house or on an island , or under a dead tree that's got one limb sticking out . 
Well , what of that ? Suppose you find a brass pot with a hundred dollars in it , all rusty and gray , or rotten chest full of di'monds . 
How's that ? Huck's eyes glowed . 
Plenty bully enough for me . 
Just you gimme the hundred dollars and I don't want no di'monds . 
But I bet you I ain't going to throw off on di'monds . 
Some of 'em's worth twenty dol lars apiece there ain't any , hardly , but's worth six bits or a dollar . 
No ! Is that so ? Cert'nly anybody'll tell you so . 
Hain't you ever seen one , Huck ? Not as I remember . 
Oh , kings have slathers of them . 
Well , I don' know no kings , Tom . 
But if you was to go to Europe you'd see a raft of 'em hopping around . 
Like that old humpbacked Richard . 
Richard ? What's his other name ? He didn't have any other name . 
Kings don't have any but a given name . 
No ? But they don't . 
Well , if they like it , Tom , all right but I don't want to be a king and have only just a given name , like a nigger . 
But say where you going to dig first ? Well , I don't know . 
S'pose we tackle that old dead limb tree on the hill t'other side of Still House branch ? I'm agreed . 
So they got a crippled pick and a shovel , and set out on their three mile tramp . 
They arrived hot and panting , and threw themselves down in the shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke . 
I like this , said Tom . 
I bet I'll have a gay time . 
Well , ain't you going to save any of it ? Save it ? What for ? Why , so as to have something to live on , by and by . 
Oh , that ain't any use . 
Pap would come back to thish yer town some day and get his claws on it if I didn't hurry up , and I tell you he'd clean it out pretty quick . 
Tom , you why , you ain't in your right mind . 
Well , that's the foolishest thing you could do . 
Look at pap and my mother . 
Fight ! Why , they used to fight all the time . 
I remember , mighty well . 
The girl I'm going to marry won't fight . 
Tom , I reckon they're all alike . 
They'll all comb a body . 
Now you better think 'bout this awhile . 
I tell you you better . 
What's the name of the gal ? It ain't a gal at all it's a girl . 
It's all the same , I reckon some says gal , some says girl both's right , like enough . 
Anyway , what's her name , Tom ? I'll tell you some time not now . 
Only if you get married I'll be more lonesomer than ever . 
You'll come and live with me . 
Now stir out of this and we'll go to digging . 
They worked and sweated for half an hour . 
They toiled another half hour . 
Huck said Do they always bury it as deep as this ? Sometimes not always . 
I reckon we haven't got the right place . 
So they chose a new spot and began again . 
The labor dragged a little , but still they made progress . 
They pegged away in silence for some time . 
I reckon that'll be a good one . 
But won't the widow take it away from us , Tom ? It's on her land . 
SHE take it away ! Maybe she'd like to try it once . 
Whoever finds one of these hid treasures , it belongs to him . 
It don't make any difference whose land it's on . 
By and by Huck said Blame it , we must be in the wrong place again . 
What do you think ? It is mighty curious , Huck . 
I reckon maybe that's what's the trouble now . 
Shucks ! Witches ain't got no power in the day time . 
I didn't think of that . 
Now hang it all , we got to come back in the night . 
It's an awful long way . 
Can you get out ? I bet I will . 
We've got to do it to night , too , be cause if somebody sees these holes they'll know in a minute what's here and they'll go for it . 
Well , I'll come around and maow to night . 
Let's hide the tools in the bushes . 
The boys were there that night , about the appoint ed time . 
They sat in the shadow waiting . 
It was a lonely place , and an hour made solemn by old traditions . 
The boys were subdued by these solemnities , and talked little . 
By and by they judged that twelve had come they marked where the shadow fell , and began to dig . 
Their hopes commenced to rise . 
Their interest grew stronger , and their industry kept pace with it . 
The hole deepened and still deepened , but every time their hearts jumped to hear the pick strike upon something , they only suffered a new disap pointment . 
It was only a stone or a chunk . 
At last Tom said It ain't any use , Huck , we're wrong again . 
Well , but we CAN'T be wrong . 
We spotted the shadder to a dot . 
I know it , but then there's another thing . 
Why , we only guessed at the time . 
Like enough it was too late or too early . 
That's it , said he . 
We got to give this one up . 
We can't ever tell the right time , and besides this kind of thing's too awful , here this time of night with witches and ghosts a flut tering around so . 
I feel as if something's behind me all the time and I'm afeard to turn around , becuz maybe there's others in front a waiting for a chance . 
I been creeping all over , ever since I got here . 
Well , I've been pretty much so , too , Huck . 
They most always put in a dead man when they bury a treasure under a tree , to look out for it . 
Lordy ! Yes , they do . 
Tom , I don't like to fool around much where there's dead people . 
A body's bound to get into trouble with 'em , sure . 
I don't like to stir 'em up , either . 
S'pose this one here was to stick his skull out and say something ! Don't Tom ! It's awful . 
Well , it just is . 
Huck , I don't feel comfortable a bit . 
Say , Tom , let's give this place up , and try some wheres else . 
All right , I reckon we better . 
What'll it be ? Tom considered awhile and then said The ha'nted house . 
That's it ! Blame it , I don't like ha'nted houses , Tom . 
Why , they're a dern sight worse'n dead people . 
I couldn't stand such a thing as that , Tom nobody could . 
Yes , but , Huck , ghosts don't travel around only at night . 
They won't hender us from digging there in the daytime . 
But you know mighty well people don't go about that ha'nted house in the day nor the night . 
Well , where you see one of them blue lights flicker ing around , Tom , you can bet there's a ghost mighty close behind it . 
Becuz you know that they don't anybody but ghosts use 'em . 
But anyway they don't come around in the daytime , so what's the use of our being afeard ? Well , all right . 
We'll tackle the ha'nted house if you say so but I reckon it's taking chances . 
They had started down the hill by this time . 
CHAPTER XXVI ABOUT noon the next day the boys ar rived at the dead tree they had come for their tools . 
Blame it , a body can't be too careful , Huck . 
We might 'a' got into an awful scrape , tackling such a thing on a Friday . 
MIGHT ! Better say we WOULD ! There's some lucky days , maybe , but Friday ain't . 
I don't reckon YOU was the first that found it out , Huck . 
Well , I never said I was , did I ? And Friday ain't all , neither . 
I had a rotten bad dream last night dreampt about rats . 
No ! Sure sign of trouble . 
Did they fight ? No. Well , that's good , Huck . 
When they don't fight it's only a sign that there's trouble around , you know . 
All we got to do is to look mighty sharp and keep out of it . 
We'll drop this thing for to day , and play . 
Do you know Robin Hood , Huck ? No. Who's Robin Hood ? Why , he was one of the greatest men that was ever in England and the best . 
He was a rob ber . 
Cracky , I wisht I was . 
Who did he rob ? Only sheriffs and bishops and rich people and kings , and such like . 
But he never bothered the poor . 
He always divided up with 'em perfectly square . 
Well , he must 'a' been a brick . 
I bet you he was , Huck . 
Oh , he was the noblest man that ever was . 
They ain't any such men now , I can tell you . 
What's a YEW bow ? I don't know . 
It's some kind of a bow , of course . 
And if he hit that dime only on the edge he would set down and cry and curse . 
But we'll play Robin Hood it's nobby fun . 
So they played Robin Hood all the afternoon , now and then casting a yearning eye down upon the haunted house and passing a remark about the morrow's pros pects and possibilities there . 
As the sun began to sink into the west they took their way homeward athwart the long shadows of the trees and soon were buried from sight in the forests of Cardiff Hill . 
On Saturday , shortly after noon , the boys were at the dead tree again . 
Then they crept to the door and took a trembling peep . 
They presently entered , softly , with quickened pulses , talking in whispers , ears alert to catch the slightest sound , and muscles tense and ready for instant retreat . 
In a little while familiarity modified their fears and they gave the place a critical and interested exam ination , rather admiring their own boldness , and won dering at it , too . 
Next they wanted to look up stairs . 
Up there were the same signs of decay . 
In one corner they found a closet that promised mystery , but the promise was a fraud there was nothing in it . 
Their courage was up now and well in hand . 
They were about to go down and begin work when Sh ! said Tom . 
What is it ? whispered Huck , blanching with fright . 
Hear it ? Yes ! . 
Oh , my ! Let's run ! Keep still ! Don't you budge ! They're coming right toward the door . 
The boys stretched themselves upon the floor with their eyes to knot holes in the planking , and lay wait ing , in a misery of fear . 
Don't whisper another word , Huck . 
My good ness , I wish I was out of this ! Two men entered . 
Each boy said to himself There's the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that's been about town once or twice lately never saw t'other man before . 
T'other was a ragged , unkempt creature , with nothing very pleasant in his face . 
The Spaniard was wrapped in a serape he had bushy white whiskers long white hair flowed from under his sombrero , and he wore green goggles . 
His manner became less guarded and his words more distinct as he proceeded No , said he , I've thought it all over , and I don't like it . 
Dangerous ! grunted the deaf and dumb Span iard to the vast surprise of the boys . 
Milksop ! This voice made the boys gasp and quake . 
It was Injun Joe's ! There was silence for some time . 
Then Joe said What's any more dangerous than that job up yon der but nothing's come of it . 
Away up the river so , and not another house about . 
'Twon't ever be known that we tried , anyway , long as we didn't succeed . 
Well , what's more dangerous than coming here in the daytime ! anybody would suspicion us that saw us . 
But there warn't any other place as handy after that fool of a job . 
I want to quit this shanty . 
I wanted to yesterday , only it warn't any use trying to stir out of here , with those infernal boys play ing over there on the hill right in full view . 
Those infernal boys quaked again under the in spiration of this remark , and thought how lucky it was that they had remembered it was Friday and concluded to wait a day . 
They wished in their hearts they had waited a year . 
The two men got out some food and made a luncheon . 
After a long and thoughtful silence , Injun Joe said Look here , lad you go back up the river where you belong . 
Wait there till you hear from me . 
I'll take the chances on dropping into this town just once more , for a look . 
We'll do that 'dangerous' job after I've spied around a little and think things look well for it . 
Then for Texas ! We'll leg it together ! This was satisfactory . 
Both men presently fell to yawning , and Injun Joe said I'm dead for sleep ! It's your turn to watch . 
He curled down in the weeds and soon began to snore . 
His comrade stirred him once or twice and he became quiet . 
Presently the watcher began to nod his head drooped lower and lower , both men began to snore now . 
The boys drew a long , grateful breath . 
Tom whis pered Now's our chance come ! Huck said I can't I'd die if they was to wake . 
Tom urged Huck held back . 
At last Tom rose slowly and softly , and started alone . 
But the first step he made wrung such a hideous creak from the crazy floor that he sank down almost dead with fright . 
He never made a second attempt . 
My ! have I been asleep ? Oh , partly , partly . 
Nearly time for us to be mov ing , pard . 
What'll we do with what little swag we've got left ? I don't know leave it here as we've always done , I reckon . 
No use to take it away till we start south . 
Six hundred and fifty in silver's something to carry . 
Well all right it won't matter to come here once more . 
No but I'd say come in the night as we used to do it's better . 
Good idea , said the comrade , who walked across the room , knelt down , raised one of the rearward hearth stones and took out a bag that jingled pleasantly . 
The boys forgot all their fears , all their miseries in an instant . 
With gloating eyes they watched every movement . 
They nudged each other every moment eloquent nudges and easily understood , for they simply meant Oh , but ain't you glad NOW we're here ! Joe's knife struck upon something . 
What is it ? said his comrade . 
Half rotten plank no , it's a box , I believe . 
Here bear a hand and we'll see what it's here for . 
Never mind , I've broke a hole . 
He reached his hand in and drew it out Man , it's money ! The two men examined the handful of coins . 
The boys above were as excited as them selves , and as delighted . 
Joe's comrade said We'll make quick work of this . 
There's an old rusty pick over amongst the weeds in the corner the other side of the fireplace I saw it a minute ago . 
He ran and brought the boys' pick and shovel . 
Injun Joe took the pick , looked it over critically , shook his head , muttered something to himself , and then began to use it . 
The box was soon unearthed . 
It was not very large it was iron bound and had been very strong before the slow years had injured it . 
The men con templated the treasure awhile in blissful silence . 
Pard , there's thousands of dollars here , said Injun Joe . 
'Twas always said that Murrel's gang used to be around here one summer , the stranger observed . 
I know it , said Injun Joe and this looks like it , I should say . 
Now you won't need to do that job . 
Said he You don't know me . 
Least you don't know all about that thing . 
'Tain't robbery altogether it's REVENGE ! and a wicked light flamed in his eyes . 
I'll need your help in it . 
When it's finished then Texas . 
Go home to your Nance and your kids , and stand by till you hear from me . 
Well if you say so what'll we do with this bury it again ? Yes . 
NO ! by the great Sachem , no ! Profound distress overhead . 
That pick had fresh earth on it ! The boys were sick with terror in a moment . 
We'll take it to my den . 
Why , of course ! Might have thought of that be fore . 
You mean Number One ? No Number Two under the cross . 
The other place is bad too common . 
It's nearly dark enough to start . 
Injun Joe got up and went about from window to window cautiously peeping out . 
Presently he said Who could have brought those tools here ? Do you reckon they can be up stairs ? The boys' breath forsook them . 
Injun Joe put his hand on his knife , halted a moment , undecided , and then turned toward the stairway . 
The boys thought of the closet , but their strength was gone . 
In my opinion , whoever hove those things in here caught a sight of us and took us for ghosts or devils or some thing . 
I'll bet they're running yet . 
Joe grumbled awhile then he agreed with his friend that what daylight was left ought to be economized in getting things ready for leaving . 
Shortly afterward they slipped out of the house in the deepening twilight , and moved toward the river with their precious box . 
Tom and Huck rose up , weak but vastly relieved , and stared after them through the chinks between the logs of the house . 
They were content to reach ground again without broken necks , and take the townward track over the hill . 
They did not talk much . 
They were too much absorbed in hating themselves hating the ill luck that made them take the spade and the pick there . 
But for that , Injun Joe never would have suspected . 
Then a ghastly thought occurred to Tom . 
Revenge ? What if he means US , Huck ! Oh , don't ! said Huck , nearly fainting . 
Very , very small comfort it was to Tom to be alone in danger ! Company would be a palpable improve ment , he thought . 
CHAPTER XXVII THE adventure of the day mightily tor mented Tom's dreams that night . 
He never had supposed for a moment that so large a sum as a hun dred dollars was to be found in actual money in any one's possession . 
This uncertainty must be swept away . 
He would snatch a hurried breakfast and go and find Huck . 
Huck was sitting on the gunwale of a flatboat , list lessly dangling his feet in the water and looking very melancholy . 
Tom concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject . 
If he did not do it , then the adventure would be proved to have been only a dream . 
Hello , Huck ! Hello , yourself . 
Silence , for a minute . 
Tom , if we'd 'a' left the blame tools at the dead tree , we'd 'a' got the money . 
Oh , ain't it awful ! 'Tain't a dream , then , 'tain't a dream ! Somehow I most wish it was . 
Dog'd if I don't , Huck . 
What ain't a dream ? Oh , that thing yesterday . 
I been half thinking it was . 
FIND him ! Track the money ! Tom , we'll never find him . 
A feller don't have only one chance for such a pile and that one's lost . 
I'd feel mighty shaky if I was to see him , anyway . 
Well , so'd I but I'd like to see him , anyway and track him out to his Number Two . 
Number Two yes , that's it . 
I been thinking 'bout that . 
But I can't make nothing out of it . 
What do you reckon it is ? I dono . 
Say , Huck maybe it's the number of a house ! Goody ! . 
No , Tom , that ain't it . 
If it is , it ain't in this one horse town . 
They ain't no numbers here . 
Here it's the number of a room in a tavern , you know ! Oh , that's the trick ! They ain't only two taverns . 
We can find out quick . 
You stay here , Huck , till I come . 
Tom was off at once . 
He did not care to have Huck's company in public places . 
He was gone half an hour . 
He found that in the best tavern , No. had long been occupied by a young lawyer , and was still so occupied . 
In the less ostentatious house , No. was a mystery . 
That's what I've found out , Huck . 
I reckon that's the very No. we're after . 
I reckon it is , Tom . 
Now what you going to do ? Lemme think . 
Tom thought a long time . 
Then he said I'll tell you . 
The back door of that No. is the door that comes out into that little close alley between the tavern and the old rattle trap of a brick store . 
Now you get hold of all the door keys you can find , and I'll nip all of auntie's , and the first dark night we'll go there and try 'em . 
And mind you , keep a lookout for Injun Joe , because he said he was going to drop into town and spy around once more for a chance to get his revenge . 
If you see him , you just follow him and if he don't go to that No. , that ain't the place . 
Lordy , I don't want to foller him by myself ! Why , it'll be night , sure . 
He mightn't ever see you and if he did , maybe he'd never think anything . 
Well , if it's pretty dark I reckon I'll track him . 
You bet I'll follow him , if it's dark , Huck . 
Why , he might 'a' found out he couldn't get his revenge , and be going right after that money . 
It's so , Tom , it's so . 
I'll foller him I will , by jingoes ! Now you're TALKING ! Don't you ever weaken , Huck , and I won't . 
CHAPTER XXVIII THAT night Tom and Huck were ready for their adventure . 
They hung about the neighborhood of the tavern until after nine , one watching the alley at a distance and the other the tavern door . 
Nobody entered the alley or left it no body resembling the Spaniard entered or left the tavern door . 
But the night remained clear , and Huck closed his watch and retired to bed in an empty sugar hogshead about twelve . 
Tuesday the boys had the same ill luck . 
But Thursday night promised better . 
Tom slipped out in good season with his aunt's old tin lantern , and a large towel to blindfold it with . 
He hid the lantern in Huck's sugar hogshead and the watch began . 
No Spaniard had been seen . 
Nobody had entered or left the alley . 
The blackness of darkness reigned , the perfect stillness was interrupted only by occasional mutterings of distant thunder . 
Tom got his lantern , lit it in the hogshead , wrapped it closely in the towel , and the two adventurers crept in the gloom toward the tavern . 
Huck stood sentry and Tom felt his way into the alley . 
Then there was a season of waiting anxiety that weighed upon Huck's spirits like a mountain . 
He began to wish he could see a flash from the lantern it would frighten him , but it would at least tell him that Tom was alive yet . 
It seemed hours since Tom had disappeared . 
Surely he must have fainted maybe he was dead maybe his heart had burst under terror and excitement . 
In his uneasiness Huck found himself drawing closer and closer to the alley fearing all sorts of dreadful things , and momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away his breath . 
There was not much to take away , for he seemed only able to inhale it by thimblefuls , and his heart would soon wear itself out , the way it was beating . 
Suddenly there was a flash of light and Tom came tearing by him . 
Run ! said he run , for your life ! He needn't have repeated it once was enough Huck was making thirty or forty miles an hour before the repetition was uttered . 
The boys never stopped till they reached the shed of a deserted slaughter house at the lower end of the village . 
Just as they got within its shelter the storm burst and the rain poured down . 
They wouldn't turn in the lock , either . 
Lordy , what did you do ? Did he wake up ? No , never budged . 
I just grabbed that towel and started ! I'd never 'a' thought of the towel , I bet ! Well , I would . 
My aunt would make me mighty sick if I lost it . 
Say , Tom , did you see that box ? Huck , I didn't wait to look around . 
I didn't see the box , I didn't see the cross . 
I didn't see anything but a bottle and a tin cup on the floor by Injun Joe yes , I saw two barrels and lots more bottles in the room . 
Who'd 'a' thought such a thing ? But say , Tom , now's a mighty good time to get that box , if Injun Joe's drunk . 
It is , that ! You try it ! Huck shuddered . 
Well , no I reckon not . 
And I reckon not , Huck . 
Only one bottle along side of Injun Joe ain't enough . 
If there'd been three , he'd be drunk enough and I'd do it . 
There was a long pause for reflection , and then Tom said Lookyhere , Huck , less not try that thing any more till we know Injun Joe's not in there . 
Now , if we watch every night , we'll be dead sure to see him go out , some time or other , and then we'll snatch that box quicker'n lightning . 
I'll watch the whole night long , and I'll do it every night , too , if you'll do the other part of the job . 
All right , I will . 
All you got to do is to trot up Hooper Street a block and maow and if I'm asleep , you throw some gravel at the window and that'll fetch me . 
Agreed , and good as wheat ! Now , Huck , the storm's over , and I'll go home . 
It'll begin to be daylight in a couple of hours . 
You go back and watch that long , will you ? I said I would , Tom , and I will . 
I'll ha'nt that tavern every night for a year ! I'll sleep all day and I'll stand watch all night . 
Now , where you going to sleep ? In Ben Rogers' hayloft . 
He lets me , and so does his pap's nigger man , Uncle Jake . 
I tote water for Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to , and any time I ask him he gives me a little something to eat if he can spare it . 
That's a mighty good nigger , Tom . 
He likes me , becuz I don't ever act as if I was above him . 
Sometime I've set right down and eat WITH him . 
But you needn't tell that . 
A body's got to do things when he's awful hungry he wouldn't want to do as a steady thing . 
Well , if I don't want you in the daytime , I'll let you sleep . 
I won't come bothering around . 
Any time you see something's up , in the night , just skip right around and maow . 
CHAPTER XXIX THE first thing Tom heard on Friday morning was a glad piece of news Judge Thatcher's family had come back to town the night before . 
Both Injun Joe and the treasure sunk into second ary importance for a moment , and Becky took the chief place in the boy's interest . 
He saw her and they had an exhausting good time playing hi spy and gully keeper with a crowd of their school mates . 
The day was completed and crowned in a pe culiarly satisfactory way Becky teased her mother to appoint the next day for the long promised and long delayed picnic , and she consented . 
The child's delight was boundless and Tom's not more moderate . 
The invitations were sent out before sunset , and straightway the young folks of the village were thrown into a fever of preparation and pleasurable anticipation . 
No signal came that night . 
Morning came , eventually , and by ten or eleven o'clock a giddy and rollicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher's , and everything was ready for a start . 
It was not the custom for elderly people to mar the picnics with their presence . 
The children were considered safe enough under the wings of a few young ladies of eighteen and a few young gentlemen of twenty three or thereabouts . 
The old steam ferry boat was chartered for the occasion presently the gay throng filed up the main street laden with provision baskets . 
Sid was sick and had to miss the fun Mary remained at home to entertain him . 
The last thing Mrs. Thatcher said to Becky , was You'll not get back till late . 
Perhaps you'd better stay all night with some of the girls that live near the ferry landing , child . 
Then I'll stay with Susy Harper , mamma . 
And mind and behave yourself and don't be any trouble . 
Presently , as they tripped along , Tom said to Becky Say I'll tell you what we'll do . 
'Stead of going to Joe Harper's we'll climb right up the hill and stop at the Widow Douglas' . 
She'll have ice cream ! She has it most every day dead loads of it . 
And she'll be awful glad to have us . 
I know she would ! The Widow Douglas' splendid hospitality was a tempting bait . 
It and Tom's persuasions presently carried the day . 
So it was decided to say nothing anybody about the night's programme . 
Presently it occurred to Tom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give the signal . 
The thought took a deal of the spirit out of his anticipations . 
Still he could not bear to give up the fun at Widow Douglas' . 
Three miles below town the ferryboat stopped at the mouth of a woody hollow and tied up . 
The crowd swarmed ashore and soon the forest distances and craggy heights echoed far and near with shoutings and laughter . 
After the feast there was a refreshing season of rest and chat in the shade of spreading oaks . 
By and by somebody shouted Who's ready for the cave ? Everybody was . 
Bundles of candles were procured , and straightway there was a general scamper up the hill . 
The mouth of the cave was up the hillside an opening shaped like a letter A. Its massive oaken door stood unbarred . 
Within was a small chamber , chilly as an ice house , and walled by Nature with solid limestone that was dewy with a cold sweat . 
It was romantic and mysterious to stand here in the deep gloom and look out upon the green valley shining in the sun . 
But the impressiveness of the situation quickly wore off , and the romping began again . 
But all things have an end . 
This main avenue was not more than eight or ten feet wide . 
No man knew the cave . 
That was an impossible thing . 
Most of the young men knew a portion of it , and it was not customary to venture much beyond this known portion . 
Tom Sawyer knew as much of the cave as any one . 
Parties were able to elude each other for the space of half an hour without going beyond the known ground . 
Then they were astonished to find that they had been taking no note of time and that night was about at hand . 
The clanging bell had been calling for half an hour . 
However , this sort of close to the day's adventures was romantic and there fore satisfactory . 
When the ferryboat with her wild freight pushed into the stream , nobody cared sixpence for the wasted time but the captain of the craft . 
Huck was already upon his watch when the ferry boat's lights went glinting past the wharf . 
He heard no noise on board , for the young people were as sub dued and still as people usually are who are nearly tired to death . 
He wondered what boat it was , and why she did not stop at the wharf and then he dropped her out of his mind and put his attention upon his business . 
The night was growing cloudy and dark . 
Eleven o'clock came , and the tavern lights were put out darkness everywhere , now . 
Huck waited what seemed a weary long time , but noth ing happened . 
Was there any use ? Was there really any use ? Why not give it up and turn in ? A noise fell upon his ear . 
He was all attention in an instant . 
The alley door closed softly . 
He sprang to the corner of the brick store . 
The next moment two men brushed by him , and one seemed to have something under his arm . 
It must be that box ! So they were going to remove the treasure . 
Why call Tom now ? It would be absurd the men would get away with the box and never be found again . 
No , he would stick to their wake and follow them he would trust to the darkness for security from discovery . 
They moved up the river street three blocks , then turned to the left up a cross street . 
They went straight ahead , then , until they came to the path that led up Cardiff Hill this they took . 
They passed by the old Welshman's house , half way up the hill , without hesi tating , and still climbed upward . 
Good , thought Huck , they will bury it in the old quarry . 
But they never stopped at the quarry . 
They passed on , up the sum mit . 
They plunged into the narrow path between the tall sumach bushes , and were at once hidden in the gloom . 
Huck closed up and shortened his distance , now , for they would never be able to see him . 
The hooting of an owl came over the hill ominous sound ! But no footsteps . 
He knew where he was . 
He knew he was within five steps of the stile leading into Widow Douglas' grounds . 
Very well , he thought , let them bury it there it won't be hard to find . 
Now there was a voice a very low voice Injun Joe's Damn her , maybe she's got company there's lights , late as it is . 
This was that stranger's voice the stranger of the haunted house . 
A deadly chill went to Huck's heart this , then , was the revenge job ! His thought was , to fly . 
Then he remembered that the Widow Douglas had been kind to him more than once , and maybe these men were going to murder her . 
He wished he dared venture to warn her but he knew he didn't dare they might come and catch him . 
He thought all this and more in the moment that elapsed between the stranger's remark and Injun Joe's next which was Because the bush is in your way . 
Now this way now you see , don't you ? Yes . 
Well , there IS company there , I reckon . 
Give it up , and I just leaving this country forever ! Give it up and maybe never have another chance . 
I tell you again , as I've told you before , I don't care for her swag you may have it . 
But her husband was rough on me many times he was rough on me and mainly he was the justice of the peace that jugged me for a vagrant . 
But I'll take it out of HER . 
Oh , don't kill her ! Don't do that ! Kill ? Who said anything about killing ? I would kill HIM if he was here but not her . 
When you want to get revenge on a woman you don't kill her bosh ! you go for her looks . 
You slit her nostrils you notch her ears like a sow ! By God , that's Keep your opinion to yourself ! It will be safest for you . 
I'll tie her to the bed . 
If she bleeds to death , is that my fault ? I'll not cry , if she does . 
My friend , you'll help me in this thing for MY sake that's why you're here I mightn't be able alone . 
If you flinch , I'll kill you . 
Do you understand that ? And if I have to kill you , I'll kill her and then I reckon nobody'll ever know much about who done this business . 
Well , if it's got to be done , let's get at it . 
The quicker the better I'm all in a shiver . 
Do it NOW ? And company there ? Look here I'll get suspicious of you , first thing you know . 
No we'll wait till the lights are out there's no hurry . 
He took another step back , with the same elaboration and the same risks then another and another , and a twig snapped under his foot ! His breath stopped and he listened . 
There was no sound the stillness was perfect . 
Now he turned in his tracks , between the walls of sumach bushes turned himself as carefully as if he were a ship and then stepped quickly but cautiously along . 
When he emerged at the quarry he felt secure , and so he picked up his nimble heels and flew . 
Down , down he sped , till he reached the Welshman's . 
He banged at the door , and presently the heads of the old man and his two stalwart sons were thrust from windows . 
What's the row there ? Who's banging ? What do you want ? Let me in quick ! I'll tell everything . 
Please don't ever tell I told you , were Huck's first words when he got in . 
By George , he HAS got something to tell , or he wouldn't act so ! exclaimed the old man out with it and nobody here'll ever tell , lad . 
Three minutes later the old man and his sons , well armed , were up the hill , and just entering the sumach path on tiptoe , their weapons in their hands . 
Huck accompanied them no further . 
He hid behind a great bowlder and fell to listening . 
There was a lagging , anxious silence , and then all of a sudden there was an explosion of firearms and a cry . 
Huck waited for no particulars . 
He sprang away and sped down the hill as fast as his legs could carry him . 
CHAPTER XXX AS the earliest suspicion of dawn appeared on Sunday morning , Huck came groping up the hill and rapped gently at the old Welshman's door . 
The inmates were asleep , but it was a sleep that was set on a hair trigger , on account of the exciting episode of the night . 
He could not recollect that the closing word had ever been applied in his case before . 
The door was quickly unlocked , and he entered . 
Huck was given a seat and the old man and his brace of tall sons speedily dressed themselves . 
I was awful scared , said Huck , and I run . 
I took out when the pistols went off , and I didn't stop for three mile . 
I've come now becuz I wanted to know about it , you know and I come before daylight becuz I didn't want to run across them devils , even if they was dead . 
Well , poor chap , you do look as if you'd had a hard night of it but there's a bed here for you when you've had your breakfast . 
No , they ain't dead , lad we are sorry enough for that . 
But they were off in a jiffy , those villains , and we after them , down through the woods . 
I judge we never touched them . 
They fired a shot apiece as they started , but their bullets whizzed by and didn't do us any harm . 
As soon as we lost the sound of their feet we quit chasing , and went down and stirred up the constables . 
My boys will be with them presently . 
I wish we had some sort of description of those rascals 'twould help a good deal . 
But you couldn't see what they were like , in the dark , lad , I suppose ? Oh yes I saw them down town and follered them . 
Off with you , boys , and tell the sheriff get your breakfast to morrow morning ! The Welshman's sons departed at once . 
Oh no , no ! Please don't tell ! When the young men were gone , the old Welshman said They won't tell and I won't . 
That was the way of it last night . 
Well , just then along comes these two chaps slipping along close by me , with something under their arm , and I reckoned they'd stole it . 
Could you see the rags by the light of the cigars ? This staggered Huck for a moment . 
Then he said Well , I don't know but somehow it seems as if I did . 
Then they went on , and you Follered 'em yes . 
I wanted to see what was up they sneaked along so . 
He made several efforts to creep out of his scrape , but the old man's eye was upon him and he made blunder after blunder . 
Pres ently the Welshman said My boy , don't be afraid of me . 
I wouldn't hurt a hair of your head for all the world . 
No I'd pro tect you I'd protect you . 
This Spaniard is not deaf and dumb you've let that slip without intending it you can't cover that up now . 
You know something about that Spaniard that you want to keep dark . 
Now trust me tell me what it is , and trust me I won't betray you . 
In a moment he said It's all plain enough , now . 
When you talked about notching ears and slitting noses I judged that that was your own embellishment , because white men don't take that sort of revenge . 
But an Injun ! That's a different matter altogether . 
They found none , but captured a bulky bundle of Of WHAT ? If the words had been lightning they could not have leaped with a more stunning suddenness from Huck's blanched lips . 
His eyes were staring wide , now , and his breath suspended waiting for the answer . 
The Welshman started stared in return three seconds five seconds ten then replied Of burglar's tools . 
Why , what's the MATTER with you ? Huck sank back , panting gently , but deeply , un utterably grateful . 
The Welshman eyed him gravely , curiously and presently said Yes , burglar's tools . 
That appears to relieve you a good deal . 
Then he added Poor old chap , you're white and jaded you ain't well a bit no wonder you're a little flighty and off your balance . 
But you'll come out of it . 
Rest and sleep will fetch you out all right , I hope . 
He had only thought it was not the treasure , however he had not known that it wasn't and so the suggestion of a captured bundle was too much for his self possession . 
Just as breakfast was completed there was a knock at the door . 
Huck jumped for a hiding place , for he had no mind to be connected even remotely with the late event . 
The Welshman admitted several ladies and gentlemen , among them the Widow Douglas , and noticed that groups of citizens were climbing up the hill to stare at the stile . 
So the news had spread . 
The Welshman had to tell the story of the night to the visitors . 
The widow's gratitude for her preser vation was outspoken . 
Don't say a word about it , madam . 
There's another that you're more beholden to than you are to me and my boys , maybe , but he don't allow me to tell his name . 
We wouldn't have been there but for him . 
When all else had been learned , the widow said I went to sleep reading in bed and slept straight through all that noise . 
Why didn't you come and wake me ? We judged it warn't worth while . 
More visitors came , and the story had to be told and retold for a couple of hours more . 
There was no Sabbath school during day school vacation , but everybody was early at church . 
The stirring event was well canvassed . 
News came that not a sign of the two villains had been yet discovered . 
Your Becky ? Yes , with a startled look didn't she stay with you last night ? Why , no . 
Mrs. Thatcher turned pale , and sank into a pew , just as Aunt Polly , talking briskly with a friend , passed by . 
Aunt Polly said Good morning , Mrs. Thatcher . 
Good morning , Mrs. Harper . 
I've got a boy that's turned up missing . 
I reckon my Tom stayed at your house last night one of you . 
And now he's afraid to come to church . 
I've got to settle with him . 
Mrs. Thatcher shook her head feebly and turned paler than ever . 
He didn't stay with us , said Mrs. Harper , be ginning to look uneasy . 
A marked anxiety came into Aunt Polly's face . 
Joe Harper , have you seen my Tom this morning ? No'm . 
When did you see him last ? Joe tried to remember , but was not sure he could say . 
The people had stopped moving out of church . 
Whispers passed along , and a boding uneasiness took possession of every countenance . 
Children were anx iously questioned , and young teachers . 
They all said they had not noticed whether Tom and Becky were on board the ferryboat on the homeward trip it was dark no one thought of inquiring if any one was missing . 
One young man finally blurted out his fear that they were still in the cave ! Mrs. Thatcher swooned away . 
Aunt Polly fell to crying and wringing her hands . 
All the long afternoon the village seemed empty and dead . 
Many women visited Aunt Polly and Mrs. Thatcher and tried to comfort them . 
They cried with them , too , and that was still better than words . 
All the tedious night the town waited for news but when the morning dawned at last , all the word that came was , Send more candles and send food . 
Mrs. Thatcher was almost crazed and Aunt Polly , also . 
Judge Thatcher sent messages of hope and encourage ment from the cave , but they conveyed no real cheer . 
The old Welshman came home toward daylight , spattered with candle grease , smeared with clay , and almost worn out . 
He found Huck still in the bed that had been provided for him , and delirious with fever . 
The physicians were all at the cave , so the Widow Douglas came and took charge of the patient . 
The Welshman said Huck had good spots in him , and the widow said You can depend on it . 
He don't leave it off . 
Puts it some where on every creature that comes from his hands . 
Early in the forenoon parties of jaded men began to straggle into the village , but the strongest of the citizens continued searching . 
Mrs. Thatcher recognized the ribbon and cried over it . 
Three dreadful days and nights dragged their tedious hours along , and the village sank into a hopeless stupor . 
No one had heart for anything . 
The acci dental discovery , just made , that the proprietor of the Temperance Tavern kept liquor on his premises , scarcely fluttered the public pulse , tremendous as the fact was . 
Yes , said the widow . 
Huck started up in bed , wild eyed What ? What was it ? Liquor ! and the place has been shut up . 
Hush , hush , child , hush ! I've told you before , you must NOT talk . 
You are very , very sick ! Then nothing but liquor had been found there would have been a great powwow if it had been the gold . 
So the treasure was gone forever gone forever ! But what could she be crying about ? Curious that she should cry . 
These thoughts worked their dim way through Huck's mind , and under the weariness they gave him he fell asleep . 
The widow said to herself There he's asleep , poor wreck . 
CHAPTER XXXI NOW to return to Tom and Becky's share in the picnic . 
Still drifting along and talking , they scarcely noticed that they were now in a part of the cave whose walls were not frescoed . 
They smoked their own names under an overhanging shelf and moved on . 
Tom squeezed his small body behind it in order to illuminate it for Becky's gratification . 
He found that it curtained a sort of steep natural stairway which was enclosed between narrow walls , and at once the ambi tion to be a discoverer seized him . 
Becky responded to his call , and they made a smoke mark for future guidance , and started upon their quest . 
Tom knew their ways and the danger of this sort of conduct . 
The bats chased the children a good distance but the fugitives plunged into every new passage that offered , and at last got rid of the perilous things . 
Tom found a subterranean lake , shortly , which stretched its dim length away until its shape was lost in the shadows . 
He wanted to explore its borders , but concluded that it would be best to sit down and rest awhile , first . 
Now , for the first time , the deep stillness of the place laid a clammy hand upon the spirits of the children . 
Becky said Why , I didn't notice , but it seems ever so long since I heard any of the others . 
Come to think , Becky , we are away down below them and I don't know how far away north , or south , or east , or whichever it is . 
We couldn't hear them here . 
I wonder how long we've been down here , Tom ? We better start back . 
Yes , I reckon we better . 
Can you find the way , Tom ? It's all a mixed up crookedness to me . 
I reckon I could find it but then the bats . 
If they put our candles out it will be an awful fix . 
Let's try some other way , so as not to go through there . 
But I hope we won't get lost . 
It would be so awful ! and the girl shuddered at the thought of the dreadful possibilities . 
Every time Tom made an examination , Becky would watch his face for an encouraging sign , and he would say cheerily Oh , it's all right . 
At last she said Oh , Tom , never mind the bats , let's go back that way ! We seem to get worse and worse off all the time . 
Profound silence silence so deep that even their breathings were conspicuous in the hush . 
The call went echoing down the empty aisles and died out in the distance in a faint sound that resembled a ripple of mocking laughter . 
Oh , don't do it again , Tom , it is too horrid , said Becky . 
It is horrid , but I better , Becky they might hear us , you know , and he shouted again . 
The might was even a chillier horror than the ghostly laughter , it so confessed a perishing hope . 
The children stood still and listened but there was no result . 
Tom turned upon the back track at once , and hurried his steps . 
Tom begged her to pluck up hope again , and she said she could not . 
He fell to blaming and abusing himself for getting her into this miserable situation this had a better effect . 
She said she would try to hope again , she would get up and follow wherever he might lead if only he would not talk like that any more . 
For he was no more to blame than she , she said . 
So they moved on again aimlessly simply at random all they could do was to move , keep moving . 
By and by Tom took Becky's candle and blew it out . 
This economy meant so much ! Words were not needed . 
Becky understood , and her hope died again . 
She knew that Tom had a whole candle and three or four pieces in his pockets yet he must econ omize . 
At last Becky's frail limbs refused to carry her farther . 
Fatigue bore so heavily upon Becky that she drowsed off to sleep . 
He sat looking into her drawn face and saw it grow smooth and natural under the influence of pleasant dreams and by and by a smile dawned and rested there . 
The peaceful face reflected somewhat of peace and healing into his own spirit , and his thoughts wandered away to bygone times and dreamy memories . 
While he was deep in his musings , Becky woke up with a breezy little laugh but it was stricken dead upon her lips , and a groan followed it . 
I'm glad you've slept , Becky you'll feel rested , now , and we'll find the way out . 
We can try , Tom but I've seen such a beautiful country in my dream . 
I reckon we are going there . 
Maybe not , maybe not . 
Cheer up , Becky , and let's go on trying . 
They rose up and wandered along , hand in hand and hopeless . 
A long time after this they could not tell how long Tom said they must go softly and listen for dripping water they must find a spring . 
They found one presently , and Tom said it was time to rest again . 
Both were cruelly tired , yet Becky said she thought she could go a little farther . 
She was surprised to hear Tom dissent . 
She could not understand it . 
They sat down , and Tom fastened his candle to the wall in front of them with some clay . 
Thought was soon busy nothing was said for some time . 
Then Becky broke the silence Tom , I am so hungry ! Tom took something out of his pocket . 
Do you remember this ? said he . 
It's our wedding cake , Tom . 
Yes I wish it was as big as a barrel , for it's all we've got . 
Tom divided the cake and Becky ate with good appetite , while Tom nibbled at his moiety . 
There was abun dance of cold water to finish the feast with . 
By and by Becky suggested that they move on again . 
Tom was silent a moment . 
Then he said Becky , can you bear it if I tell you something ? Becky's face paled , but she thought she could . 
Well , then , Becky , we must stay here , where there's water to drink . 
That little piece is our last candle ! Becky gave loose to tears and wailings . 
Tom did what he could to comfort her , but with little effect . 
Why , I reckon maybe they are . 
When would they miss us , Tom ? When they get back to the boat , I reckon . 
Tom , it might be dark then would they notice we hadn't come ? I don't know . 
But anyway , your mother would miss you as soon as they got home . 
A frightened look in Becky's face brought Tom to his senses and he saw that he had made a blunder . 
Becky was not to have gone home that night ! The children became silent and thoughtful . 
All that they knew was , that after what seemed a mighty stretch of time , both awoke out of a dead stupor of sleep and resumed their miseries once more . 
Tom said it might be Sunday , now maybe Monday . 
He tried to get Becky to talk , but her sorrows were too oppressive , all her hopes were gone . 
Tom said that they must have been missed long ago , and no doubt the search was going on . 
He would shout and maybe some one would come . 
He tried it but in the darkness the distant echoes sounded so hideously that he tried it no more . 
The hours wasted away , and hunger came to tor ment the captives again . 
A portion of Tom's half of the cake was left they divided and ate it . 
But they seemed hungrier than before . 
The poor morsel of food only whetted desire . 
By and by Tom said SH ! Did you hear that ? Both held their breath and listened . 
There was a sound like the faintest , far off shout . 
Instantly Tom answered it , and leading Becky by the hand , started groping down the corridor in its direction . 
Presently he listened again again the sound was heard , and apparently a little nearer . 
It's them ! said Tom they're coming ! Come along , Becky we're all right now ! The joy of the prisoners was almost overwhelming . 
Their speed was slow , however , because pitfalls were somewhat common , and had to be guarded against . 
They shortly came to one and had to stop . 
It might be three feet deep , it might be a hundred there was no passing it at any rate . 
Tom got down on his breast and reached as far down as he could . 
They must stay there and wait until the searchers came . 
They listened evidently the distant shoutings were growing more distant ! a moment or two more and they had gone altogether . 
The heart sinking misery of it ! Tom whooped until he was hoarse , but it was of no use . 
He talked hopefully to Becky but an age of anxious waiting passed and no sounds came again . 
The children groped their way back to the spring . 
The weary time dragged on they slept again , and awoke famished and woe stricken . 
Tom believed it must be Tuesday by this time . 
Now an idea struck him . 
There were some side passages near at hand . 
It would be better to explore some of these than bear the weight of the heavy time in idleness . 
He took a kite line from his pocket , tied it to a projection , and he and Becky started , Tom in the lead , unwinding the line as he groped along . 
At the end of twenty steps the corridor ended in a jumping off place . 
He was vastly gratified the next moment , to see the Spaniard take to his heels and get himself out of sight . 
Tom wondered that Joe had not recognized his voice and come over and killed him for testifying in court . 
But the echoes must have disguised the voice . 
Without doubt , that was it , he reasoned . 
Tom's fright weak ened every muscle in his body . 
He was careful to keep from Becky what it was he had seen . 
He told her he had only shouted for luck . 
But hunger and wretchedness rise superior to fears in the long run . 
Another tedious wait at the spring and another long sleep brought changes . 
The chil dren awoke tortured with a raging hunger . 
Tom believed that it must be Wednesday or Thursday or even Friday or Saturday , now , and that the search had been given over . 
He proposed to explore another passage . 
He felt willing to risk Injun Joe and all other terrors . 
But Becky was very weak . 
She had sunk into a dreary apathy and would not be roused . 
She said she would wait , now , where she was , and die it would not be long . 
CHAPTER XXXII TUESDAY afternoon came , and waned to the twilight . 
The lost children had not been found . 
Public prayers had been offered up for them , and many and many a private prayer that had the petitioner's whole heart in it but still no good news came from the cave . 
The majority of the searchers had given up the quest and gone back to their daily avocations , saying that it was plain the children could never be found . 
Mrs. Thatcher was very ill , and a great part of the time delirious . 
Aunt Polly had drooped into a settled melancholy , and her gray hair had grown almost white . 
The village went to its rest on Tuesday night , sad and forlorn . 
Aunt Polly's happiness was complete , and Mrs. Thatcher's nearly so . 
It would be complete , how ever , as soon as the messenger dispatched with the great news to the cave should get the word to her husband . 
Three days and nights of toil and hunger in the cave were not to be shaken off at once , as Tom and Becky soon discovered . 
They were bedridden all of Wednesday and Thursday , and seemed to grow more and more tired and worn , all the time . 
Tom learned of Huck's sickness and went to see him on Friday , but could not be admitted to the bedroom neither could he on Saturday or Sunday . 
He was admitted daily after that , but was warned to keep still about his adventure and introduce no ex citing topic . 
The Widow Douglas stayed by to see that he obeyed . 
Judge Thatcher's house was on Tom's way , and he stopped to see Becky . 
The Judge and some friends set Tom to talking , and some one asked him ironically if he wouldn't like to go to the cave again . 
Tom said he thought he wouldn't mind it . 
The Judge said Well , there are others just like you , Tom , I've not the least doubt . 
But we have taken care of that . 
Nobody will get lost in that cave any more . 
Why ? Because I had its big door sheathed with boiler iron two weeks ago , and triple locked and I've got the keys . 
Tom turned as white as a sheet . 
What's the matter , boy ! Here , run , somebody ! Fetch a glass of water ! The water was brought and thrown into Tom's face . 
Ah , now you're all right . 
Tom Sawyer was in the skiff that bore Judge Thatcher . 
When the cave door was unlocked , a sorrowful sight presented itself in the dim twilight of the place . 
Tom was touched , for he knew by his own experience how this wretch had suffered . 
Injun Joe's bowie knife lay close by , its blade broken in two . 
So he had only hacked that place in order to be doing something in order to pass the weary time in order to employ his tortured faculties . 
Ordinarily one could find half a dozen bits of candle stuck around in the crevices of this vestibule , left there by tourists but there were none now . 
The prisoner had searched them out and eaten them . 
He had also contrived to catch a few bats , and these , also , he had eaten , leaving only their claws . 
The poor unfortunate had starved to death . 
In one place , near at hand , a stalagmite had been slowly growing up from the ground for ages , builded by the water drip from a stalactite overhead . 
Injun Joe's cup stands first in the list of the cavern's marvels even Aladdin's Palace cannot rival it . 
This funeral stopped the further growth of one thing the petition to the governor for Injun Joe's pardon . 
The morning after the funeral Tom took Huck to a private place to have an important talk . 
He said I know what it is . 
You got into No. and never found anything but whiskey . 
Tom , something's always told me we'd never get holt of that swag . 
Why , Huck , I never told on that tavern keeper . 
YOU know his tavern was all right the Saturday I went to the picnic . 
Don't you remember you was to watch there that night ? Oh yes ! Why , it seems 'bout a year ago . 
It was that very night that I follered Injun Joe to the widder's . 
YOU followed him ? Yes but you keep mum . 
I reckon Injun Joe's left friends behind him , and I don't want 'em souring on me and doing me mean tricks . 
If it hadn't ben for me he'd be down in Texas now , all right . 
Then Huck told his entire adventure in confidence to Tom , who had only heard of the Welshman's part of it before . 
Huck , that money wasn't ever in No. ! What ! Huck searched his comrade's face keenly . 
Tom , have you got on the track of that money again ? Huck , it's in the cave ! Huck's eyes blazed . 
Say it again , Tom . 
The money's in the cave ! Tom honest injun , now is it fun , or earnest ? Earnest , Huck just as earnest as ever I was in my life . 
Huck , we can do that without the least little bit of trouble in the world . 
Good as wheat ! What makes you think the money's Huck , you just wait till we get in there . 
If we don't find it I'll agree to give you my drum and every thing I've got in the world . 
I will , by jings . 
All right it's a whiz . 
When do you say ? Right now , if you say it . 
It's about five mile into there the way anybody but me would go , Huck , but there's a mighty short cut that they don't anybody but me know about . 
Huck , I'll take you right to it in a skiff . 
I'll float the skiff down there , and I'll pull it back again all by myself . 
You needn't ever turn your hand over . 
Less start right off , Tom . 
I tell you , many's the time I wished I had some when I was in there before . 
A trifle after noon the boys borrowed a small skiff from a citizen who was absent , and got under way at once . 
But do you see that white place up yonder where there's been a landslide ? Well , that's one of my marks . 
We'll get ashore , now . 
Now , Huck , where we're a standing you could touch that hole I got out of with a fishing pole . 
See if you can find it . 
Huck searched all the place about , and found nothing . 
Tom proudly marched into a thick clump of sumach bushes and said Here you are ! Look at it , Huck it's the snuggest hole in this country . 
You just keep mum about it . 
All along I've been wanting to be a robber , but I knew I'd got to have a thing like this , and where to run across it was the bother . 
Tom Sawyer's Gang it sounds splendid , don't it , Huck ? Well , it just does , Tom . 
And who'll we rob ? Oh , most anybody . 
Waylay people that's mostly the way . 
And kill them ? No , not always . 
Hive them in the cave till they raise a ransom . 
What's a ransom ? Money . 
You make them raise all they can , off'n their friends and after you've kept them a year , if it ain't raised then you kill them . 
Only you don't kill the women . 
You shut up the women , but you don't kill them . 
They're always beautiful and rich , and awfully scared . 
You take their watches and things , but you always take your hat off and talk polite . 
They ain't anybody as polite as robbers you'll see that in any book . 
Well , the women get to loving you , and after they've been in the cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after that you couldn't get them to leave . 
If you drove them out they'd turn right around and come back . 
It's so in all the books . 
Why , it's real bully , Tom . 
I believe it's better'n to be a pirate . 
Yes , it's better in some ways , because it's close to home and circuses and all that . 
By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole , Tom in the lead . 
They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel , then made their spliced kite strings fast and moved on . 
A few steps brought them to the spring , and Tom felt a shudder quiver all through him . 
He showed Huck the frag ment of candle wick perched on a lump of clay against the wall , and described how he and Becky had watched the flame struggle and expire . 
The boys began to quiet down to whispers , now , for the stillness and gloom of the place oppressed their spirits . 
They went on , and presently entered and followed Tom's other corridor until they reached the jumping off place . 
The candles revealed the fact that it was not really a precipice , but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet high . 
Tom whis pered Now I'll show you something , Huck . 
He held his candle aloft and said Look as far around the corner as you can . 
Do you see that ? There on the big rock over yonder done with candle smoke . 
Injun Joe's ghost is round about there , certain . 
No it ain't , Huck , no it ain't . 
It would ha'nt the place where he died away out at the mouth of the cave five mile from here . 
No , Tom , it wouldn't . 
It would hang round the money . 
I know the ways of ghosts , and so do you . 
Tom began to fear that Huck was right . 
Mis givings gathered in his mind . 
Tom , I didn't think of that . 
It's luck for us , that cross is . 
I reckon we'll climb down there and have a hunt for that box . 
Tom went first , cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended . 
Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the great rock stood in . 
The boys examined three of them with no result . 
But there was no money box . 
The lads searched and re searched this place , but in vain . 
Tom said He said UNDER the cross . 
Well , this comes nearest to being under the cross . 
It can't be under the rock itself , because that sets solid on the ground . 
They searched everywhere once more , and then sat down discouraged . 
By and by Tom said Lookyhere , Huck , there's footprints and some can dle grease on the clay about one side of this rock , but not on the other sides . 
Now , what's that for ? I bet you the money IS under the rock . 
I'm going to dig in the clay . 
That ain't no bad notion , Tom ! said Huck with animation . 
Tom's real Barlow was out at once , and he had not dug four inches before he struck wood . 
Hey , Huck ! you hear that ? Huck began to dig and scratch now . 
Some boards were soon uncovered and removed . 
They had con cealed a natural chasm which led under the rock . 
Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as he could , but said he could not see to the end of the rift . 
He stooped and passed under the narrow way descended gradually . 
He followed its winding course , first to the right , then to the left , Huck at his heels . 
Got it at last ! said Huck , ploughing among the tar nished coins with his hand . 
My , but we're rich , Tom ! Huck , I always reckoned we'd get it . 
It's just too good to believe , but we HAVE got it , sure ! Say let's not fool around here . 
Lemme see if I can lift the box . 
It weighed about fifty pounds . 
Tom could lift it , after an awkward fashion , but could not carry it conveniently . 
I thought so , he said THEY carried it like it was heavy , that day at the ha'nted house . 
I reckon I was right to think of fetching the little bags along . 
The money was soon in the bags and the boys took it up to the cross rock . 
Now less fetch the guns and things , said Huck . 
No , Huck leave them there . 
They're just the tricks to have when we go to robbing . 
We'll keep them there all the time , and we'll hold our orgies there , too . 
It's an awful snug place for orgies . 
What orgies ? I dono . 
But robbers always have orgies , and of course we've got to have them , too . 
Come along , Huck , we've been in here a long time . 
It's getting late , I reckon . 
We'll eat and smoke when we get to the skiff . 
They presently emerged into the clump of sumach bushes , looked warily out , found the coast clear , and were soon lunching and smoking in the skiff . 
As the sun dipped toward the horizon they pushed out and got under way . 
Tom skimmed up the shore through the long twilight , chatting cheerily with Huck , and landed shortly after dark . 
Just you lay quiet here and watch the stuff till I run and hook Benny Taylor's little wagon I won't be gone a minute . 
When the boys reached the Welsh man's house , they stopped to rest . 
Just as they were about to move on , the Welshman stepped out and said Hallo , who's that ? Huck and Tom Sawyer . 
Good ! Come along with me , boys , you are keep ing everybody waiting . 
Here hurry up , trot ahead I'll haul the wagon for you . 
Why , it's not as light as it might be . 
Got bricks in it ? or old metal ? Old metal , said Tom . 
But that's human nature hurry along , hurry along ! The boys wanted to know what the hurry was about . 
Never mind you'll see , when we get to the Widow Douglas' . 
Huck said with some apprehension for he was long used to being falsely accused Mr. Jones , we haven't been doing nothing . 
Well , I don't know , Huck , my boy . 
I don't know about that . 
Ain't you and the widow good friends ? Yes . 
Well , she's ben good friends to me , anyway . 
Mr. Jones left the wagon near the door and followed . 
The place was grandly lighted , and everybody that was of any consequence in the village was there . 
The widow received the boys as heartily as any one could well receive two such looking beings . 
They were covered with clay and candle grease . 
Aunt Polly blushed crimson with humiliation , and frowned and shook her head at Tom . 
Nobody suffered half as much as the two boys did , however . 
And you did just right , said the widow . 
Come with me , boys . 
She took them to a bedchamber and said Now wash and dress yourselves . 
Here are two new suits of clothes shirts , socks , everything complete . 
They're Huck's no , no thanks , Huck Mr. Jones bought one and I the other . 
But they'll fit both of you . 
We'll wait come down when you are slicked up enough . 
CHAPTER XXXIV HUCK said Tom , we can slope , if we can find a rope . 
The window ain't high from the ground . 
Shucks ! what do you want to slope for ? Well , I ain't used to that kind of a crowd . 
I ain't going down there , Tom . 
Oh , bother ! It ain't anything . 
I don't mind it a bit . 
I'll take care of you . 
Tom , said he , auntie has been waiting for you all the afternoon . 
Mary got your Sunday clothes ready , and everybody's been fretting about you . 
Say ain't this grease and clay , on your clothes ? Now , Mr. Siddy , you jist 'tend to your own business . 
What's all this blow out about , anyway ? It's one of the widow's parties that she's always having . 
This time it's for the Welshman and his sons , on account of that scrape they helped her out of the other night . 
And say I can tell you something , if you want to know . 
Everybody knows the widow , too , for all she tries to let on she don't . 
I reckon Mr. Jones was going to make a grand time over his surprise , but I bet you it will drop pretty flat . 
Sid chuckled in a very contented and satisfied way . 
Sid , was it you that told ? Oh , never mind who it was . 
Sid , there's only one person in this town mean enough to do that , and that's you . 
If you had been in Huck's place you'd 'a' sneaked down the hill and never told anybody on the robbers . 
You can't do any but mean things , and you can't bear to see anybody praised for doing good ones . 
There no thanks , as the widow says and Tom cuffed Sid's ears and helped him to the door with several kicks . 
He said Huck don't need it . 
Nothing but a heavy strain upon the good manners of the company kept back the due and proper com plimentary laugh at this pleasant joke . 
But the silence was a little awkward . 
Tom broke it Huck's got money . 
Maybe you don't believe it , but he's got lots of it . 
Oh , you needn't smile I reckon I can show you . 
You just wait a minute . 
Tom ran out of doors . 
The company looked at each other with a perplexed interest and inquiringly at Huck , who was tongue tied . 
Sid , what ails Tom ? said Aunt Polly . 
He well , there ain't ever any making of that boy out . 
I never Tom entered , struggling with the weight of his sacks , and Aunt Polly did not finish her sentence . 
All gazed , nobody spoke for a moment . 
Then there was a unanimous call for an explanation . 
Tom said he could furnish it , and he did . 
The tale was long , but brimful of interest . 
There was scarcely an interruption from any one to break the charm of its flow . 
When he had finished , Mr. Jones said I thought I had fixed up a little surprise for this occasion , but it don't amount to anything now . 
This one makes it sing mighty small , I'm willing to allow . 
The sum amounted to a little over twelve thousand dollars . 
It was more than any one present had ever seen at one time before , though several persons were there who were worth considerably more than that in property . 
CHAPTER XXXV THE reader may rest satisfied that Tom's and Huck's windfall made a mighty stir in the poor little village of St . 
So vast a sum , all in actual cash , seemed next to incredible . 
It was talked about , gloated over , glorified , until the reason of many of the citizens tottered under the strain of the unhealthy excitement . 
Every haunted house in St . 
Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted , admired , stared at . 
The village paper published biographical sketches of the boys . 
The Widow Douglas put Huck's money out at six per cent . 
, and Judge Thatcher did the same with Tom's at Aunt Polly's request . 
Each lad had an in come , now , that was simply prodigious a dollar for every week day in the year and half of the Sundays . 
It was just what the minister got no , it was what he was promised he generally couldn't collect it . 
A dollar and a quarter a week would board , lodge , and school a boy in those old simple days and clothe him and wash him , too , for that matter . 
Judge Thatcher had conceived a great opinion of Tom . 
He said that no commonplace boy would ever have got his daughter out of the cave . 
She went straight off and told Tom about it . 
Judge Thatcher hoped to see Tom a great lawyer or a great soldier some day . 
He bravely bore his miseries three weeks , and then one day turned up missing . 
For forty eight hours the widow hunted for him everywhere in great distress . 
The public were profoundly concerned they searched high and low , they dragged the river for his body . 
Early the third morning Tom Sawyer wisely went poking among some old empty hogsheads down behind the abandoned slaughter house , and in one of them he found the refugee . 
Huck had slept there he had just breakfasted upon some stolen odds and ends of food , and was lying off , now , in comfort , with his pipe . 
He was unkempt , uncombed , and clad in the same old ruin of rags that had made him picturesque in the days when he was free and happy . 
Tom routed him out , told him the trouble he had been causing , and urged him to go home . 
Huck's face lost its tranquil content , and took a melancholy cast . 
He said Don't talk about it , Tom . 
I've tried it , and it don't work it don't work , Tom . 
It ain't for me I ain't used to it . 
The widder's good to me , and friendly but I can't stand them ways . 
I got to wear shoes all Sunday . 
The widder eats by a bell she goes to bed by a bell she gits up by a bell everything's so awful reg'lar a body can't stand it . 
Well , everybody does that way , Huck . 
Tom , it don't make no difference . 
I ain't every body , and I can't STAND it . 
It's awful to be tied up so . 
And grub comes too easy I don't take no interest in vittles , that way . 
I got to ask to go a fishing I got to ask to go in a swimming dern'd if I hain't got to ask to do everything . 
And besides , that school's going to open , and I'd a had to go to it well , I wouldn't stand THAT , Tom . 
Looky here , Tom , being rich ain't what it's cracked up to be . 
It's just worry and worry , and sweat and sweat , and a wishing you was dead all the time . 
Now these clothes suits me , and this bar'l suits me , and I ain't ever going to shake 'em any more . 
Oh , Huck , you know I can't do that . 
'Tain't fair and besides if you'll try this thing just a while longer you'll come to like it . 
Like it ! Yes the way I'd like a hot stove if I was to set on it long enough . 
No , Tom , I won't be rich , and I won't live in them cussed smothery houses . 
I like the woods , and the river , and hogsheads , and I'll stick to 'em , too . 
No ! Oh , good licks are you in real dead wood earnest , Tom ? Just as dead earnest as I'm sitting here . 
But Huck , we can't let you into the gang if you ain't re spectable , you know . 
Can't let me in , Tom ? Didn't you let me go for a pirate ? Yes , but that's different . 
A robber is more high toned than what a pirate is as a general thing . 
In most countries they're awful high up in the nobility dukes and such . 
You wouldn't like that , and I wouldn't . 
Huck was silent for some time , engaged in a mental struggle . 
All right , Huck , it's a whiz ! Come along , old chap , and I'll ask the widow to let up on you a little , Huck . 
Will you , Tom now will you ? That's good . 
If she'll let up on some of the roughest things , I'll smoke private and cuss private , and crowd through or bust . 
When you going to start the gang and turn robbers ? Oh , right off . 
We'll get the boys together and have the initiation to night , maybe . 
Have the which ? Have the initiation . 
That's gay that's mighty gay , Tom , I tell you . 
Well , I bet it is . 
And all that swearing's got to be done at midnight , in the lonesomest , awfulest place you can find a ha'nted house is the best , but they're all ripped up now . 
Well , midnight's good , anyway , Tom . 
Yes , so it is . 
And you've got to swear on a coffin , and sign it with blood . 
Now , that's something LIKE ! Why , it's a million times bullier than pirating . 
CONCLUSION SO endeth this chronicle . 
It being strictly a history of a BOY , it must stop here the story could not go much further without becoming the history of a MAN . 
Most of the characters that perform in this book still live , and are prosperous and happy . 
