A Child's History of England by Charles Dickens Scanned and Proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
They are England and Scotland , and Ireland . 
England and Scotland form the greater part of these Islands . 
Ireland is the next in size . 
But the sea was not alive , then , with great ships and brave sailors , sailing to and from all parts of the world . 
The Islands lay solitary , in the great expanse of water . 
The most celebrated tin mines in Cornwall are , still , close to the sea . 
So , the Phoenicians , coasting about the Islands , would come , without much difficulty , to where the tin and lead were . 
The Phoenicians traded with the Islanders for these metals , and gave the Islanders some other useful things in exchange . 
It is probable that other people came over from Spain to Ireland , and settled there . 
The whole country was covered with forests , and swamps . 
The greater part of it was very misty and cold . 
There were no roads , no bridges , no streets , no houses that you would think deserving of the name . 
The people planted little or no corn , but lived upon the flesh of their flocks and cattle . 
They made no coins , but used metal rings for money . 
They were clever in basket work , as savage people often are and they could make a coarse kind of cloth , and some very bad earthenware . 
But in building fortresses they were much more clever . 
They made boats of basket work , covered with the skins of animals , but seldom , if ever , ventured far from the shore . 
They made swords , of copper mixed with tin but , these swords were of an awkward shape , and so soft that a heavy blow would bend one . 
The butt end was a rattle , to frighten an enemy's horse . 
They were very fond of horses . 
The standard of Kent was the picture of a white horse . 
They could break them in and manage them wonderfully well . 
were so well taught in those days , that they can scarcely be said to have improved since though the men are so much wiser . 
The Britons could not have succeeded in their most remarkable art , without the aid of these sensible and trusty animals . 
The art I mean , is the construction and management of war chariots or cars , for which they have ever been celebrated in history . 
In a moment , while at full speed , the horses would stop , at the driver's command . 
The Britons had a strange and terrible religion , called the Religion of the Druids . 
These Druids built great Temples and altars , open to the sky , fragments of some of which are yet remaining . 
Stonehenge , on Salisbury Plain , in Wiltshire , is the most extraordinary of these . 
Three curious stones , called Kits Coty House , on Bluebell Hill , near Maidstone , in Kent , form another . 
And , as they persuaded the people the more Druids there were , the better off the people would be , I don't wonder that there were a good many of them . 
So , Julius Caesar came sailing over to this Island of ours , with eighty vessels and twelve thousand men . 
, and what with having some of his vessels dashed to pieces by a high tide after they were drawn ashore , he ran great risk of being totally defeated . 
But , in the spring of the next year , he came back this time , with eight hundred vessels and thirty thousand men . 
However , brave CASSIVELLAUNUS had the worst of it , on the whole though he and his men always fought like lions . 
As the other British chiefs were jealous of him , and were always quarrelling with him , and with one another , he gave up , and proposed peace . 
Julius Caesar was very glad to grant peace easily , and to go away again with all his remaining ships and men . 
They never DID know , I believe , and never will . 
Nearly a hundred years passed on , and all that time , there was peace in Britain . 
The Britons improved their towns and mode of life became more civilised , travelled , and learnt a great deal from the Gauls and Romans . 
At last , the Roman Emperor , Claudius , sent AULUS PLAUTIUS , a skilful general , with a mighty force , to subdue the Island , and shortly afterwards arrived himself . 
They did little and OSTORIUS SCAPULA , another general , came . 
Some of the British Chiefs of Tribes submitted . 
Others resolved to fight to the death . 
Of these brave men , the bravest was CARACTACUS , or CARADOC , who gave battle to the Romans , with his army , among the mountains of North Wales . 
'This day , said he to his soldiers , 'decides the fate of Britain ! Your liberty , or your eternal slavery , dates from this hour . 
Remember your brave ancestors , who drove the great Caesar himself across the sea ! On hearing these words , his men , with a great shout , rushed upon the Romans . 
But the strong Roman swords and armour were too much for the weaker British weapons in close conflict . 
The Britons lost the day . 
But a great man will be great in misfortune , great in prison , great in chains . 
His noble air , and dignified endurance of distress , so touched the Roman people who thronged the streets to see him , that he and his family were restored to freedom . 
No one knows whether his great heart broke , and he died in Rome , or whether he ever returned to his own dear country . 
Still , the Britons WOULD NOT yield . 
They rose again and again , and died by thousands , sword in hand . 
They rose , on every possible occasion . 
, which was supposed to be sacred , and he burnt the Druids in their own wicker cages , by their own fires . 
But , even while he was in Britain , with his victorious troops , the BRITONS rose . 
To avenge this injury , the Britons rose , with all their might and rage . 
SUETONIUS strengthened his army , and advanced to give them battle . 
They strengthened their army , and desperately attacked his , on the field where it was strongly posted . 
The Britons fought to the last but they were vanquished with great slaughter , and the unhappy queen took poison . 
Still , the spirit of the Britons was not broken . 
When SUETONIUS left the country , they fell upon his troops , and retook the Island of Anglesey . 
HADRIAN came , thirty years afterwards , and still they resisted him . 
SEVERUS came , nearly a hundred years afterwards , and they worried his great army like dogs , and rejoiced to see them die , by thousands , in the bogs and swamps . 
CARACALLA , the son and successor of SEVERUS , did the most to conquer them , for a time but not by force of arms . 
He knew how little that would do . 
He yielded up a quantity of land to the Caledonians , and gave the Britons the same privileges as the Romans possessed . 
There was peace , after this , for seventy years . 
They began to come , in pirate ships , to the sea coast of Gaul and Britain , and to plunder them . 
But , after this time , they renewed their ravages . 
, and the Picts , a northern people , began to make frequent plundering incursions into the South of Britain . 
Five hundred years had passed , since Julius Caesar's first invasion of the Island , when the Romans departed from it for ever . 
In the course of that time , although they had been the cause of terrible fighting and bloodshed , they had done much to improve the condition of the Britons . 
The Druids declared that it was very wicked to believe in any such thing , and cursed all the people who did believe it , very heartily . 
After which , the pupils of the Druids fell off greatly in numbers , and the Druids took to other trades . 
Thus I have come to the end of the Roman time in England . 
It is but little that is known of those five hundred years but some remains of them are still found . 
Often , when labourers are digging up the ground , to make foundations for houses or churches , they light on rusty money that once belonged to the Romans . 
Wells that the Romans sunk , still yield water roads that the Romans made , form part of our highways . 
In some old battle fields , British spear heads and Roman armour have been found , mingled together in decay , as they fell in the thick pressure of the fight . 
Traces of Roman camps overgrown with grass , and of mounds that are the burial places of heaps of Britons , are to be seen in almost all parts of the country . 
CHAPTER II ANCIENT ENGLAND UNDER THE EARLY SAXONS THE Romans had scarcely gone away from Britain , when the Britons began to wish they had never left it . 
They plundered the richest towns , and killed the people and came back so often for more booty and more slaughter , that the unfortunate Britons lived a life of terror . 
cursed all the people whom they could not persuade . 
So , altogether , the Britons were very badly off , you may believe . 
It was a British Prince named VORTIGERN who took this resolution , and who made a treaty of friendship with HENGIST and HORSA , two Saxon chiefs . 
The Indians of North America , a very inferior people to the Saxons , though do the same to this day . 
I will tell you , shortly , what is most interesting in the early Saxon times , as they are described in these songs and stories of the Bards . 
In , and long after , the days of VORTIGERN , fresh bodies of Saxons , under various chiefs , came pouring into Britain . 
Those parts of England long remained unconquered . 
by AUGUSTINE , a monk from Rome . 
AUGUSTINE built a little church , close to this King's palace , on the ground now occupied by the beautiful cathedral of Canterbury . 
It was decided that they should be . 
COIFI , the chief priest of the old religion , made a great speech on the occasion . 
In this discourse , he told the people that he had found out the old gods to be impostors . 
'I am quite satisfied of it , he said . 
From that time , the Christian religion spread itself among the Saxons , and became their faith . 
The next very famous prince was EGBERT . 
This QUEEN EDBURGA was a handsome murderess , who poisoned people when they offended her . 
One day , she mixed a cup of poison for a certain noble belonging to the court but her husband drank of it too , by mistake , and died . 
It was , indeed , EDBURGA and so she died , without a shelter for her wretched head . 
, sought refuge at the court of CHARLEMAGNE , King of France . 
And now , new enemies arose , who , for a long time , troubled England sorely . 
These were the Northmen , the people of Denmark and Norway , whom the English called the Danes . 
They were a warlike people , quite at home upon the sea not Christians very daring and cruel . 
They came over in ships , and plundered and burned wheresoever they landed . 
Once , they beat EGBERT in battle . 
Once , EGBERT beat them . 
But , they cared no more for being beaten than the English themselves . 
In the last mentioned reign , they seized EDMUND , King of East England , and bound him to a tree . 
Then , they proposed to him that he should change his religion but he , being a good Christian , steadily refused . 
Upon that , they beat him , made cowardly jests upon him , all defenceless as he was , shot arrows at him , and , finally , struck off his head . 
CHAPTER III ENGLAND UNDER THE GOOD SAXON , ALFRED ALFRED THE GREAT was a young man , three and twenty years of age , when he became king . 
The brothers admiring it very much , their mother said , 'I will give it to that one of you four princes who first learns to read . 
ALFRED sought out a tutor that very day , applied himself to learn with great diligence , and soon won the book . 
He was proud of it , all his life . 
This great king , in the first year of his reign , fought nine battles with the Danes . 
He made some treaties with them too , by which the false Danes swore they would quit the country . 
He played and sang in the very tent of GUTHRUM the Danish leader , and entertained the Danes as they caroused . 
While he seemed to think of nothing but his music , he was watchful of their tents , their arms , their discipline , everything that he desired to know . 
At his baptism , KING ALFRED was his godfather . 
And GUTHRUM was an honourable chief who well deserved that clemency for , ever afterwards he was loyal and faithful to the king . 
The Danes under him were faithful too . 
They plundered and burned no more , but worked like honest men . 
They ploughed , and sowed , and reaped , and led good honest English lives . 
For three years , there was a war with these Danes and there was a famine in the country , too , and a plague , both upon human creatures and beasts . 
At last , he drove them all away and then there was repose in England . 
As great and good in peace , as he was great and good in war , KING ALFRED never rested from his labours to improve his people . 
He loved to talk with clever men , and with travellers from foreign countries , and to write down what they told him , for his people to read . 
His industry in these efforts was quite astonishing . 
Every day he divided into certain portions , and in each portion devoted himself to a certain pursuit . 
Thus , as the candles burnt down , he divided the day into notches , almost as accurately as we now divide it into hours upon the clock . 
To prevent this , the King had them put into cases formed of wood and white horn . 
And these were the first lanthorns ever made in England . 
All this time , he was afflicted with a terrible unknown disease , which caused him violent and frequent pain that nothing could relieve . 
, and there was hard fighting but , the King , with the assistance of his sister , gained the day , and reigned in peace for four and twenty years . 
He gradually extended his power over the whole of England , and so the Seven Kingdoms were united into one . 
When England thus became one kingdom , ruled over by one Saxon king , the Saxons had been settled in the country more than four hundred and fifty years . 
Great changes had taken place in its customs during that time . 
Tables and chairs were curiously carved in different woods were sometimes decorated with gold or silver sometimes even made of those precious metals . 
Knives and spoons were used at table golden ornaments were worn with silk and cloth , and golden tissues and embroideries dishes were made of gold and silver , brass and bone . 
There were varieties of drinking horns , bedsteads , musical instruments . 
A harp was passed round , at a feast , like the drinking bowl , from guest to guest and each one usually sang or played when his turn came . 
The weapons of the Saxons were stoutly made , and among them was a terrible iron hammer that gave deadly blows , and was long remembered . 
The Saxons themselves were a handsome people . 
The men were proud of their long fair hair , parted on the forehead their ample beards , their fresh complexions , and clear eyes . 
The beauty of the Saxon women filled all England with a new delight and grace . 
It has been the greatest character among the nations of the earth . 
Wheresoever that race goes , there , law , and industry , and safety for life and property , and all the great results of steady perseverance , are certain to arise . 
I pause to think with admiration , of the noble king who , in his single person , possessed all the Saxon virtues . 
Whom misfortune could not subdue , whom prosperity could not spoil , whose perseverance nothing could shake . 
Who was hopeful in defeat , and generous in success . 
Who loved justice , freedom , truth , and knowledge . 
Who , in his care to instruct his people , probably did more to preserve the beautiful old Saxon language , than I can imagine . 
Without whom , the English tongue in which I tell this story might have wanted half its meaning . 
CHAPTER IV ENGLAND UNDER ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY KINGS ATHELSTAN , the son of Edward the Elder , succeeded that king . 
He reigned only fifteen years but he remembered the glory of his grandfather , the great Alfred , and governed England well . 
He reduced the turbulent people of Wales , and obliged them to pay him a tribute in money , and in cattle , and to send him their best hawks and hounds . 
He was victorious over the Cornish men , who were not yet quite under the Saxon government . 
He restored such of the old laws as were good , and had fallen into disuse made some wise new laws , and took care of the poor and weak . 
to come to England on visits to the English court . 
When Athelstan died , at forty seven years old , his brother EDMUND , who was only eighteen , became king . 
He was the first of six boy kings , as you will presently know . 
They called him the Magnificent , because he showed a taste for improvement and refinement . 
But he was beset by the Danes , and had a short and troubled reign , which came to a troubled end . 
Command that robber to depart ! 'I will not depart ! said Leof . 
'No ? cried the King . 
'No , by the Lord ! said Leof . 
Upon that the King rose from his seat , and , making passionately at the robber , and seizing him by his long hair , tried to throw him down . 
But the robber had a dagger underneath his cloak , and , in the scuffle , stabbed the King to death . 
Then succeeded the boy king EDRED , who was weak and sickly in body , but of a strong mind . 
And his armies fought the Northmen , the Danes , and Norwegians , or the Sea Kings , as they were called , and beat them for the time . 
And , in nine years , Edred died , and passed away . 
Dunstan was then Abbot of Glastonbury Abbey , whither the body of King Edmund the Magnificent was carried , to be buried . 
But he got out again , somehow , to cause a great deal of trouble yet . 
The priests of those days were , generally , the only scholars . 
They were learned in many things . 
Accordingly , they taught themselves , and one another , a great variety of useful arts and became skilful in agriculture , medicine , surgery , and handicraft . 
Dunstan , Abbot of Glastonbury Abbey , was one of the most sagacious of these monks . 
He was an ingenious smith , and worked at a forge in a little cell . 
, but I think not . 
I observe that it induced the ignorant people to consider him a holy man , and that it made him very powerful . 
Which was exactly what he always wanted . 
, that the King quietly left the coronation feast , while all the company were there . 
Odo , much displeased , sent his friend Dunstan to seek him . 
The young King was quite old enough to feel this insult . 
Dunstan had been Treasurer in the last reign , and he soon charged Dunstan with having taken some of the last king's money . 
, and his abbey was given to priests who were married whom he always , both before and afterwards , opposed . 
by eight crowned kings , and steered by the King of England . 
As Edgar was very obedient to Dunstan and the monks , they took great pains to represent him as the best of kings . 
But he was really profligate , debauched , and vicious . 
His marriage with his second wife , ELFRIDA , is one of the worst events of his reign . 
Now , she was so exceedingly beautiful that Athelwold fell in love with her himself , and married her but he told the King that she was only rich not handsome . 
The King , suspecting the truth when they came home , resolved to pay the newly married couple a visit and , suddenly , told Athelwold to prepare for his immediate coming . 
She promised that she would but she was a proud woman , who would far rather have been a queen than the wife of a courtier . 
She dressed herself in her best dress , and adorned herself with her richest jewels and when the King came , presently , he discovered the cheat . 
So , he caused his false friend , Athelwold , to be murdered in a wood , and married his widow , this bad Elfrida . 
And the Welshmen were so sharp upon the wolves , to save their money , that in four years there was not a wolf left . 
Then came the boy king , EDWARD , called the Martyr , from the manner of his death . 
Elfrida had a son , named ETHELRED , for whom she claimed the throne but Dunstan did not choose to favour him , and he made Edward king . 
The boy was hunting , one day , down in Dorsetshire , when he rode near to Corfe Castle , where Elfrida and Ethelred lived . 
Wishing to see them kindly , he rode away from his attendants and galloped to the castle gate , where he arrived at twilight , and blew his hunting horn . 
'You are welcome , dear King , said Elfrida , coming out , with her brightest smiles . 
'Pray you dismount and enter . 
'Not so , dear madam , said the King . 
'My company will miss me , and fear that I have met with some harm . 
At first , Elfrida possessed great influence over the young King , but , as he grew older and came of age , her influence declined . 
He was growing old then , but was as stern and artful as ever . 
Two circumstances that happened in connexion with him , in this reign of Ethelred , made a great noise . 
This was some juggling of Dunstan's , and was probably his own voice disguised . 
You may be pretty sure that it had been weakened under Dunstan's direction , and that it fell at Dunstan's signal . 
HIS part of the floor did not go down . 
He was too good a workman for that . 
When he died , the monks settled that he was a Saint , and called him Saint Dunstan ever afterwards . 
They might just as well have settled that he was a coach horse , and could just as easily have called him one . 
To coax these sea kings away , the weak Ethelred paid them money but , the more money he paid , the more money the Danes wanted . 
But , as the Danes still came back and wanted more , he thought it would be a good plan to marry into some powerful foreign family that would help him with soldiers . 
So , in the year one thousand and two , he courted and married Emma , the sister of Richard Duke of Normandy a lady who was called the Flower of Normandy . 
And now , a terrible deed was done in England , the like of which was never done on English ground before or since . 
Young and old , babies and soldiers , men and women , every Dane was killed . 
When the King of the sea kings heard of this deed of blood , he swore that he would have a great revenge . 
And so , the sea kings came to England in many great ships , each bearing the flag of its own commander . 
There was but one man of note , at this miserable pass , who was true to his country and the feeble King . 
He was a priest , and a brave one . 
Do with me what you please ! Again and again , he steadily refused to purchase his release with gold wrung from the poor . 
At last , the Danes being tired of this , and being assembled at a drunken merry making , had him brought into the feasting hall . 
'I have no gold , he said . 
'Get it , bishop ! they all thundered . 
'That , I have often told you I will not , said he . 
They gathered closer round him , threatening , but he stood unmoved . 
struck him dead with his battle axe . 
If Ethelred had had the heart to emulate the courage of this noble archbishop , he might have done something yet . 
But he paid the Danes forty eight thousand pounds , instead , and gained so little by the cowardly act , that Sweyn soon afterwards came over to subdue all England . 
London faithfully stood out , as long as the King was within its walls but , when he sneaked away , it also welcomed the Dane . 
Still , the English people , in spite of their sad sufferings , could not quite forget the great King Alfred and the Saxon race . 
The Unready , instead of coming himself , sent Edward , one of his sons , to make promises for him . 
At last , he followed , and the English declared him King . 
The Danes declared CANUTE , the son of Sweyn , King . 
Thus , direful war began again , and lasted for three years , when the Unready died . 
And I know of nothing better that he did , in all his reign of eight and thirty years . 
If Canute had been the big man , he would probably have said yes , but , being the little man , he decidedly said no . 
Most men being weary of so much bloodshed , this was done . 
But Canute soon became sole King of England for Ironside died suddenly within two months . 
Some think that he was killed , and killed by Canute's orders . 
CHAPTER V ENGLAND UNDER CANUTE THE DANE CANUTE reigned eighteen years . 
He was a merciless King at first . 
'He who brings me the head of one of my enemies , he used to say , 'shall be dearer to me than a brother . 
And he was so severe in hunting down his enemies , that he must have got together a pretty large family of these dear brothers . 
Normandy ran much in Canute's mind . 
In Normandy were the two children of the late king EDWARD and ALFRED by name and their uncle the Duke might one day claim the crown for them . 
He was a poet and a musician . 
He grew sorry , as he grew older , for the blood he had shed at first and went to Rome in a Pilgrim's dress , by way of washing it out . 
He gave a great deal of money to foreigners on his journey but he took it from the English before he started . 
If the courtiers of Canute had not known , long before , that the King was fond of flattery , they would have known better than to offer it in such large doses . 
, they would not have been at such great pains to repeat it . 
The great command goes forth to all the kings upon the earth , and went to Canute in the year one thousand and thirty five , and stretched him dead upon his bed . 
Beside it , stood his Norman wife . 
, opposed this , and desired to have , instead , either Hardicanute , or one of the two exiled Princes who were over in Normandy . 
It seemed so certain that there would be more bloodshed to settle this dispute , that many people left their homes , and took refuge in the woods and swamps . 
His brother Alfred was not so fortunate . 
Here , he and his men halted in the evening to rest , having still the Earl in their company who had ordered lodgings and good cheer for them . 
I am not sure that the Earl had wilfully entrapped him , but I suspect it strongly . 
ever consented to crown him . 
He was such a fast runner at this , his favourite sport , that the people called him Harold Harefoot . 
, for the invasion of England . 
The Danes and Saxons , finding themselves without a King , and dreading new disputes , made common cause , and joined in inviting him to occupy the Throne . 
He was a brutal King , whose first public act was to order the dead body of poor Harold Harefoot to be dug up , beheaded , and thrown into the river . 
His end was worthy of such a beginning . 
And he never spoke again . 
He was the exiled prince whose brother Alfred had been so foully killed . 
He had been invited over from Normandy by Hardicanute , in the course of his short reign of two years , and had been handsomely treated at court . 
His cause was now favoured by the powerful Earl Godwin , and he was soon made King . 
It was his interest to help the new King with his power , if the new King would help him against the popular distrust and hatred . 
So they made a bargain . 
Edward the Confessor got the Throne . 
The Earl got more power and more land , and his daughter Editha was made queen for it was a part of their compact that the King should take her for his wife . 
But , although she was a gentle lady , in all things worthy to be beloved good , beautiful , sensible , and kind the King from the first neglected her . 
Her father and her six proud brothers , resenting this cold treatment , harassed the King greatly by exerting all their power to make him unpopular . 
Having lived so long in Normandy , he preferred the Normans to the English . 
They were greatly helped by an event that occurred when he had reigned eight years . 
Eustace , Earl of Bologne , who had married the King's sister , came to England on a visit . 
After staying at the court some time , he set forth , with his numerous train of attendants , to return home . 
They were to embark at Dover . 
Entering that peaceful town in armour , they took possession of the best houses , and noisily demanded to be lodged and entertained without payment . 
The armed man drew , and wounded him . 
The man of Dover struck the armed man dead . 
, and killed the man of Dover at his own fireside . 
They then clattered through the streets , cutting down and riding over men , women , and children . 
This did not last long , you may believe . 
Hereupon , Count Eustace rides as hard as man can ride to Gloucester , where Edward is , surrounded by Norman monks and Norman lords . 
'It does not become you , says the proud Earl in reply , 'to condemn without a hearing those whom you have sworn to protect . 
I will not do it . 
The King , therefore , summoned the Earl , on pain of banishment and loss of his titles and property , to appear before the court to answer this disobedience . 
The Earl refused to appear . 
The King , in his turn , refused to give them up , and raised a strong force . 
After some treaty and delay , the troops of the great Earl and his sons began to fall off . 
But , the people did not forget them . 
Having got Earl Godwin and his six sons well out of his way , the King favoured the Normans more than ever . 
Accordingly , he thought the time was come for fitting out a great expedition against the Norman loving King . 
With it , he sailed to the Isle of Wight , where he was joined by his son Harold , the most gallant and brave of all his family . 
The other Norman favourites dispersed in all directions . 
were restored to their possessions and dignities . 
The old Earl Godwin did not long enjoy his restored fortune . 
He fell down in a fit at the King's table , and died upon the third day afterwards . 
Harold succeeded to his power , and to a far higher place in the attachment of the people than his father had ever held . 
By his valour he subdued the King's enemies in many bloody fights . 
What Harold was doing at sea , when he was driven on the French coast by a tempest , is not at all certain nor does it at all matter . 
That his ship was forced by a storm on that shore , and that he was taken prisoner , there is no doubt . 
In those barbarous days , all shipwrecked strangers were taken prisoners , and obliged to pay ransom . 
, and had been buried in St . 
Harold , being in the Duke's power , took this oath upon the Missal , or Prayer book . 
This was supposed to make Harold's oath a great deal more impressive and binding . 
After wandering in his mind like a very weak old man , he died . 
As he had put himself entirely in the hands of the monks when he was alive , they praised him lustily when he was dead . 
This was called 'touching for the King's Evil , which afterwards became a royal custom . 
You know , however , Who really touched the sick , and healed them and you know His sacred name is not among the dusty line of human kings . 
CHAPTER VII ENGLAND UNDER HAROLD THE SECOND , AND CONQUERED BY THE NORMANS HAROLD was crowned King of England on the very day of the maudlin Confessor's funeral . 
He had good need to be quick about it . 
Harold would do no such thing . 
The barons of France leagued together round Duke William for the invasion of England . 
Duke William promised freely to distribute English wealth and English lands among them . 
The Pope sent to Normandy a consecrated banner , and a ring containing a hair which he warranted to have grown on the head of Saint Peter . 
King Harold had a rebel brother in Flanders , who was a vassal of HAROLD HARDRADA , King of Norway . 
Harold , who was waiting for the Normans on the coast at Hastings , with his army , marched to Stamford Bridge upon the river Derwent to give them instant battle . 
He found them drawn up in a hollow circle , marked out by their shining spears . 
'Who is that man who has fallen ? Harold asked of one of his captains . 
'The King of Norway , he replied . 
'He is a tall and stately king , said Harold , 'but his end is near . 
The captain rode away and gave the message . 
'What will he give to my friend the King of Norway ? asked the brother . 
'Seven feet of earth for a grave , replied the captain . 
'No more ? returned the brother , with a smile . 
'The King of Norway being a tall man , perhaps a little more , replied the captain . 
'Ride back ! said the brother , 'and tell King Harold to make ready for the fight ! He did so , very soon . 
The victorious army marched to York . 
They had been tossed about by contrary winds , and some of their ships had been wrecked . 
A part of their own shore , to which they had been driven back , was strewn with Norman bodies . 
Harold broke up the feast and hurried to London . 
Within a week , his army was ready . 
He sent out spies to ascertain the Norman strength . 
William took them , caused them to be led through his whole camp , and then dismissed . 
'The Normans , said these spies to Harold , 'are not bearded on the upper lip as we English are , but are shorn . 
'Let them come , and come soon ! said Duke William . 
Some proposals for a reconciliation were made , but were soon abandoned . 
In the middle of the month of October , in the year one thousand and sixty six , the Normans and the English came front to front . 
With the first dawn of day , they arose . 
On an opposite hill , in three lines , archers , foot soldiers , horsemen , was the Norman force . 
Of a sudden , a great battle cry , 'God help us ! burst from the Norman lines . 
The English answered with their own battle cry , 'God's Rood ! Holy Rood ! The Normans then came sweeping down the hill to attack the English . 
An English Knight , who rode out from the English force to meet him , fell by this Knight's hand . 
Another English Knight rode out , and he fell too . 
But then a third rode out , and killed the Norman . 
This was in the first beginning of the fight . 
The English , keeping side by side in a great mass , cared no more for the showers of Norman arrows than if they had been showers of Norman rain . 
When the Norman horsemen rode against them , with their battle axes they cut men and horses down . 
A cry went forth among the Norman troops that Duke William was killed . 
Duke William took off his helmet , in order that his face might be distinctly seen , and rode along the line before his men . 
The Norman army closed again , and fell upon them with great slaughter . 
'Still , said Duke William , 'there are thousands of the English , firms as rocks around their King . 
Shoot upward , Norman archers , that your arrows may fall down upon their faces ! The sun rose high , and sank , and the battle still raged . 
Through all the wild October day , the clash and din resounded in the air . 
In the red sunset , and in the white moonlight , heaps upon heaps of dead men lay strewn , a dreadful spectacle , all over the ground . 
King Harold , wounded with an arrow in the eye , was nearly blind . 
His brothers were already killed . 
The King received a mortal wound , and dropped . 
The English broke and fled . 
The Normans rallied , and the day was lost . 
But the first work he had to do , was to conquer the English thoroughly and that , as you know by this time , was hard work for any man . 
He ravaged several counties he burned and plundered many towns he laid waste scores upon scores of miles of pleasant country he destroyed innumerable lives . 
At length STIGAND , Archbishop of Canterbury , with other representatives of the clergy and the people , went to his camp , and submitted to him . 
EDGAR , the insignificant son of Edmund Ironside , was proclaimed King by others , but nothing came of it . 
He fled to Scotland afterwards , where his sister , who was young and beautiful , married the Scottish King . 
Edgar himself was not important enough for anybody to care much about him . 
On Christmas Day , William was crowned in Westminster Abbey , under the title of WILLIAM THE FIRST but he is best known as WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR . 
It was a strange coronation . 
One of the bishops who performed the ceremony asked the Normans , in French , if they would have Duke William for their king ? They answered Yes . 
Another of the bishops put the same question to the Saxons , in English . 
They too answered Yes , with a loud shout . 
The noise being heard by a guard of Norman horse soldiers outside , was mistaken for resistance on the part of the English . 
When the crown was placed upon his head , he swore to govern the English as well as the best of their own monarchs . 
I dare say you think , as I do , that if we except the Great Alfred , he might pretty easily have done that . 
Numbers of the English nobles had been killed in the last disastrous battle . 
Their estates , and the estates of all the nobles who had fought against him there , King William seized upon , and gave to his own Norman knights and nobles . 
Many great English families of the present time acquired their English lands in this way , and are very proud of it . 
But what is got by force must be maintained by force . 
He gradually introduced the Norman language and the Norman customs yet , for a long time the great body of the English remained sullen and revengeful . 
The men of Hereford , aided by the Welsh , and commanded by a chief named EDRIC THE WILD , drove the Normans out of their country . 
Conspiracies were set on foot for a general massacre of the Normans , like the old massacre of the Danes . 
In short , the English were in a murderous mood all through the kingdom . 
King William , fearing he might lose his conquest , came back , and tried to pacify the London people by soft words . 
He then set forth to repress the country people by stern deeds . 
In all these places , and in many others , fire and sword worked their utmost horrors , and made the land dreadful to behold . 
The streams and rivers were discoloured with blood the sky was blackened with smoke the fields were wastes of ashes the waysides were heaped up with dead . 
But what he had got by the strong hand , he could only keep by the strong hand , and in so doing he made England a great grave . 
Two sons of Harold , by name EDMUND and GODWIN , came over from Ireland , with some ships , against the Normans , but were defeated . 
This was scarcely done , when the outlaws in the woods so harassed York , that the Governor sent to the King for help . 
The King despatched a general and a large force to occupy the town of Durham . 
The Bishop of that place met the general outside the town , and warned him not to enter , as he would be in danger there . 
The general cared nothing for the warning , and went in with all his men . 
That night , on every hill within sight of Durham , signal fires were seen to blaze . 
When the morning dawned , the English , who had assembled in great strength , forced the gates , rushed into the town , and slew the Normans every one . 
The English afterwards besought the Danes to come and help them . 
The Danes came , with two hundred and forty ships . 
The outlawed nobles joined them they captured York , and drove the Normans out of that city . 
The outlaws had , at this time , what they called a Camp of Refuge , in the midst of the fens of Cambridgeshire . 
Protected by those marshy grounds which were difficult of approach , they lay among the reeds and rushes , and were hidden by the mists that rose up from the watery earth . 
, he longed for revenge and joining the outlaws in their camp of refuge , became their commander . 
He was so good a soldier , that the Normans supposed him to be aided by enchantment . 
For this purpose she was pushed on before the troops in a wooden tower but Hereward very soon disposed of this unfortunate sorceress , by burning her , tower and all . 
So Hereward was soon defeated . 
His defeat put an end to the Camp of Refuge and , very soon afterwards , the King , victorious both in Scotland and in England , quelled the last rebellious English noble . 
But , even with his own Normans , he had a restless life . 
They were always hungering and thirsting for the riches of the English and the more he gave , the more they wanted . 
His priests were as greedy as his soldiers . 
We should not forget his name , for it is good to remember and to honour honest men . 
Besides all these troubles , William the Conqueror was troubled by quarrels among his sons . 
When Robert grew up , he asked of his father the government of Normandy , which he had nominally possessed , as a child , under his mother , MATILDA . 
That same night , he hotly departed with some followers from his father's court , and endeavoured to take the Castle of Rouen by surprise . 
All his reign , he struggled still , with the same object ever before him . 
He was a stern , bold man , and he succeeded in it . 
He loved money , and was particular in his eating , but he had only leisure to indulge one other passion , and that was his love of hunting . 
He carried it to such a height that he ordered whole villages and towns to be swept away to make forests for the deer . 
Not satisfied with sixty eight Royal Forests , he laid waste an immense district , to form another in Hampshire , called the New Forest . 
had been gored to death by a Stag and the people said that this so cruelly made Forest would yet be fatal to others of the Conqueror's race . 
He was engaged in a dispute with the King of France about some territory . 
Word being brought to him that the King of France made light of this , and joked about it , he swore in a great rage that he should rue his jests . 
He assembled his army , marched into the disputed territory , burnt his old way ! the vines , the crops , and fruit , and set the town of Mantes on fire . 
For six weeks he lay dying in a monastery near Rouen , and then made his will , giving England to William , Normandy to Robert , and five thousand pounds to Henry . 
And now , his violent deeds lay heavy on his mind . 
It was a September morning , and the sun was rising , when the King was awakened from slumber by the sound of a church bell . 
'What bell is that ? he faintly asked . 
They told him it was the bell of the chapel of Saint Mary . 
'I commend my soul , said he , 'to Mary ! and died . 
to convey the body to Caen , in Normandy , in order that it might be buried in St . 
Stephen's church there , which the Conqueror had founded . 
But fire , of which he had made such bad use in his life , seemed to follow him of itself in death . 
A great conflagration broke out in the town when the body was placed in the church and those present running out to extinguish the flames , it was once again left alone . 
It was not even buried in peace . 
This King despoiled me of both ground and house to build this church . 
Even then , the corpse was not at rest . 
The tomb was too small , and they tried to force it in . 
It broke , a dreadful smell arose , the people hurried out into the air , and , for the third time , it was left alone . 
Where were the Conqueror's three sons , that they were not at their father's burial ? Robert was lounging among minstrels , dancers , and gamesters , in France or Germany . 
Henry was carrying his five thousand pounds safely away in a convenient chest he had got made . 
William the Red was hurrying to England , to lay hands upon the Royal treasure and the crown . 
The treasurer delivering him the keys , he found that it amounted to sixty thousand pounds in silver , besides gold and jewels . 
Possessed of this wealth , he soon persuaded the Archbishop of Canterbury to crown him , and became William the Second , King of England . 
But easy reigns were difficult to have in those days . 
soon began , in concert with some powerful Norman nobles , to trouble the Red King . 
They declared in Robert's favour , and retired to their castles in a sullen humour . 
Then , the Red King went over to Normandy , where the people suffered greatly under the loose rule of Duke Robert . 
The King's object was to seize upon the Duke's dominions . 
Each of the two brothers agreed to give up something of his claims , and that the longer liver of the two should inherit all the dominions of the other . 
In this place , Fine Scholar shut himself up with his soldiers , and here he was closely besieged by his two brothers . 
The story may or may not be true but at any rate it is true that Fine Scholar could not hold out against his united brothers , and that he abandoned Mount St . 
Michael , and wandered about as poor and forlorn as other scholars have been sometimes known to be . 
The Scotch became unquiet in the Red King's time , and were twice defeated the second time , with the loss of their King , Malcolm , and his son . 
The Welsh became unquiet too . 
Against them , Rufus was less successful for they fought among their native mountains , and did great execution on the King's troops . 
Lord Mowbray , the powerful Earl of Northumberland , headed a great conspiracy to depose the King , and to place upon the throne , STEPHEN , the Conqueror's near relative . 
The plot was discovered all the chief conspirators were seized some were fined , some were put in prison , some were put to death . 
The Earl of Northumberland himself was shut up in a dungeon beneath Windsor Castle , where he died , an old man , thirty long years afterwards . 
In return for this , the Priests wrote his life when he was dead , and abused him well . 
The Red King was false of heart , selfish , covetous , and mean . 
He had a worthy minister in his favourite , Ralph , nicknamed for almost every famous person had a nickname in those rough days Flambard , or the Firebrand . 
Once , the King being ill , became penitent , and made ANSELM , a foreign priest and a good man , Archbishop of Canterbury . 
But he no sooner got well again than he repented of his repentance , and persisted in wrongfully keeping to himself some of the wealth belonging to the archbishopric . 
At last , Anselm , knowing the Red King's character , and not feeling himself safe in England , asked leave to return abroad . 
The Red King gladly gave it for he knew that as soon as Anselm was gone , he could begin to store up all the Canterbury money again , for his own use . 
By such means , and by taxing and oppressing the English people in every possible way , the Red King became very rich . 
When he wanted money for any purpose , he raised it by some means or other , and cared nothing for the injustice he did , or the misery he caused . 
He was so impatient , that he embarked for Normandy in a great gale of wind . 
Jerusalem belonging to the Turks , and the Turks hating Christianity , these Christian travellers were often insulted and ill used . 
An excitement such as the world had never known before was created . 
Thousands and thousands of men of all ranks and conditions departed for Jerusalem to make war against the Turks . 
The war is called in history the first Crusade , and every Crusader wore a cross marked on his right shoulder . 
All the Crusaders were not zealous Christians . 
Among them were vast numbers of the restless , idle , profligate , and adventurous spirit of the time . 
Robert of Normandy may have been influenced by all these motives and by a kind desire , besides , to save the Christian Pilgrims from bad treatment in future . 
He wanted to raise a number of armed men , and to go to the Crusade . 
He could not do so without money . 
He had no money and he sold his dominions to his brother , the Red King , for five years . 
With the large sum he thus obtained , he fitted out his Crusaders gallantly , and went away to Jerusalem in martial state . 
The Red King , who made money out of everything , stayed at home , busily squeezing more money out of Normans and English . 
The Turks were still resisting and fighting bravely , but this success increased the general desire in Europe to join the Crusade . 
Another great French Duke was proposing to sell his dominions for a term to the rich Red King , when the Red King's reign came to a sudden and violent end . 
You have not forgotten the New Forest which the Conqueror made , and which the miserable people whose homes he had laid waste , so hated . 
The cruelty of the Forest Laws , and the torture and death they brought upon the peasantry , increased this hatred . 
The poor persecuted country people believed that the New Forest was enchanted . 
They said that in thunder storms , and on dark nights , demons appeared , moving beneath the branches of the gloomy trees . 
They said that a terrible spectre had foretold to Norman hunters that the Red King should be punished there . 
But , in reality , it was like any other forest . 
far easier than the people . 
Upon a day in August , the Red King , now reconciled to his brother , Fine Scholar , came with a great train to hunt in the New Forest . 
Fine Scholar was of the party . 
The party dispersed in various directions , as the custom of hunters then was . 
The King took with him only SIR WALTER TYRREL , who was a famous sportsman , and to whom he had given , before they mounted horse that morning , two fine arrows . 
The last time the King was ever seen alive , he was riding with Sir Walter Tyrrel , and their dogs were hunting together . 
He got it into his cart . 
It was the body of the King . 
Others declared that the King and Sir Walter Tyrrel were hunting in company , a little before sunset , standing in bushes opposite one another , when a stag came between them . 
That the King drew his bow and took aim , but the string broke . 
That the King then cried , 'Shoot , Walter , in the Devil's name ! That Sir Walter shot . 
That the arrow glanced against a tree , was turned aside from the stag , and struck the King from his horse , dead . 
By whose hand the Red King really fell , and whether that hand despatched the arrow to his breast by accident or by design , is only known to GOD . 
Men know no more than that he was found dead in the New Forest , which the suffering people had regarded as a doomed ground for his race . 
So began the reign of KING HENRY THE FIRST . 
The people were attached to their new King , both because he had known distresses , and because he was an Englishman by birth and not a Norman . 
A good Queen she was beautiful , kind hearted , and worthy of a better husband than the King . 
For he was a cunning and unscrupulous man , though firm and clever . 
He cared very little for his word , and took any means to gain his ends . 
Michael's Mount , where his Red brother would have let him die . 
Now Robert , when his brother Fine Scholar came to the throne , was still absent in the Holy Land . 
Henry pretended that Robert had been made Sovereign of that country and he had been away so long , that the ignorant people believed it . 
This , after great loss of time in feasting and dancing with his beautiful Italian wife among his Norman friends , he at last did . 
The English in general were on King Henry's side , though many of the Normans were on Robert's . 
This the King very faithfully promised , but Robert was no sooner gone than he began to punish them . 
This confidence might have put the false King to the blush , but it did not . 
Getting home to Normandy , and understanding the King better now , he naturally allied himself with his old friend the Earl of Shrewsbury , who had still thirty castles in that country . 
This was exactly what Henry wanted . 
He immediately declared that Robert had broken the treaty , and next year invaded Normandy . 
He pretended that he came to deliver the Normans , at their own request , from his brother's misrule . 
But he headed his army like a brave prince and a gallant soldier , though he had the misfortune to be taken prisoner by King Henry , with four hundred of his Knights . 
Among them was poor harmless Edgar Atheling , who loved Robert well . 
Edgar was not important enough to be severe with . 
The King afterwards gave him a small pension , which he lived upon and died upon , in peace , among the quiet woods and fields of England . 
But the King was not a magnanimous man . 
He sentenced his brother to be confined for life in one of the Royal Castles . 
In the beginning of his imprisonment , he was allowed to ride out , guarded but he one day broke away from his guard and galloped of . 
He had the evil fortune to ride into a swamp , where his horse stuck fast and he was taken . 
When the King heard of it he ordered him to be blinded , which was done by putting a red hot metal basin on his eyes . 
Sometimes , on fine autumn mornings , he would sit and think of the old hunting parties in the free Forest , where he had been the foremost and the gayest . 
And then , thinking of her grave , and of his fatherless boy , he would stretch out his solitary arms and weep . 
He had once been Robert of Normandy . 
Pity him ! At the time when Robert of Normandy was taken prisoner by his brother , Robert's little son was only five years old . 
The King was not much accustomed to pity those who were in his power , but his cold heart seemed for the moment to soften towards the boy . 
, took charge of him , tenderly . 
The King's gentleness did not last long . 
Before two years were over , he sent messengers to this lord's Castle to seize the child and bring him away . 
The Baron was not there at the time , but his servants were faithful , and carried the boy off in his sleep and hid him . 
The youth and innocence of the pretty little WILLIAM FITZ ROBERT made him many friends at that time . 
But , King Henry , artful and cunning always , bribed some of William's friends with money , some with promises , some with power . 
that every man's truth and honour can be bought at some price . 
And now his Queen , Maud the Good , unhappily died . 
between him and the daughter of the Count of Anjou . 
He steered the ship with the golden boy upon the prow , in which your father sailed to conquer England . 
I beseech you to grant me the same office . 
I have a fair vessel in the harbour here , called The White Ship , manned by fifty sailors of renown . 
sail with the son of the man who served my father . 
But the Prince and all his company shall go along with you , in the fair White Ship , manned by the fifty sailors of renown . 
While it was yet night , the people in some of those ships heard a faint wild cry come over the sea , and wondered what it was . 
He went aboard The White Ship , with one hundred and forty youthful Nobles like himself , among whom were eighteen noble ladies of the highest rank . 
All this gay company , with their servants and the fifty sailors , made three hundred souls aboard the fair White Ship . 
'Give three casks of wine , Fitz Stephen , said the Prince , 'to the fifty sailors of renown ! My father the King has sailed out of the harbour . 
When , at last , she shot out of the harbour of Barfleur , there was not a sober seaman on board . 
But the sails were all set , and the oars all going merrily . 
Fitz Stephen had the helm . 
The gay young nobles and the beautiful ladies , wrapped in mantles of various bright colours to protect them from the cold , talked , laughed , and sang . 
The Prince encouraged the fifty sailors to row harder yet , for the honour of The White Ship . 
Crash ! A terrific cry broke from three hundred hearts . 
It was the cry the people in the distant vessels of the King heard faintly on the water . 
The White Ship had struck upon a rock was filling going down ! Fitz Stephen hurried the Prince into a boat , with some few Nobles . 
'Push off , he whispered 'and row to land . 
It is not far , and the sea is smooth . 
The rest of us must die . 
But , as they rowed away , fast , from the sinking ship , the Prince heard the voice of his sister MARIE , the Countess of Perche , calling for help . 
He never in his life had been so good as he was then . 
He cried in an agony , 'Row back at any risk ! I cannot bear to leave her ! They rowed back . 
As the Prince held out his arms to catch his sister , such numbers leaped in , that the boat was overset . 
And in the same instant The White Ship went down . 
They both clung to the main yard of the ship , which had broken from the mast , and now supported them . 
One asked the other who he was ? He said , 'I am a nobleman , GODFREY by name , the son of GILBERT DE L'AIGLE . 
And you ? said he . 
'I am BEROLD , a poor butcher of Rouen , was the answer . 
Then , they said together , 'Lord be merciful to us both ! and tried to encourage one another , as they drifted in the cold benumbing sea on that unfortunate November night . 
By and by , another man came swimming towards them , whom they knew , when he pushed aside his long wet hair , to be Fitz Stephen . 
'Where is the Prince ? said he . 
'Gone ! Gone ! the two cried together . 
The other two clung to the yard for some hours . 
At length the young noble said faintly , 'I am exhausted , and chilled with the cold , and can hold no longer . 
Farewell , good friend ! God preserve you ! So , he dropped and sunk and of all the brilliant crowd , the poor Butcher of Rouen alone was saved . 
In the morning , some fishermen saw him floating in his sheep skin coat , and got him into their boat the sole relater of the dismal tale . 
For three days , no one dared to carry the intelligence to the King . 
The King fell to the ground like a dead man , and never , never afterwards , was seen to smile . 
But he plotted again , and promised again , and bribed and bought again , in his old deceitful way . 
, he took a second wife ADELAIS or ALICE , a duke's daughter , and the Pope's niece . 
in his cap for a feather . 
, twice over , without in the least intending to keep it . 
The King was now relieved from any remaining fears of William Fitz Robert , by his death in the Monastery of St . 
Omer , in France , at twenty six years old , of a pike wound in the hand . 
And as Matilda gave birth to three sons , he thought the succession to the throne secure . 
He spent most of the latter part of his life , which was troubled by family quarrels , in Normandy , to be near Matilda . 
His remains were brought over to Reading Abbey to be buried . 
You may perhaps hear the cunning and promise breaking of King Henry the First , called 'policy' by some people , and 'diplomacy' by others . 
Neither of these fine words will in the least mean that it was true and nothing that is not true can possibly be good . 
King Henry the First was avaricious , revengeful , and so false , that I suppose a man never lived whose word was less to be relied upon . 
STEPHEN , whom he had never mistrusted or suspected , started up to claim the throne . 
Stephen was the son of ADELA , the Conqueror's daughter , married to the Count of Blois . 
To Stephen , and to his brother HENRY , the late King had been liberal making Henry Bishop of Winchester , and finding a good marriage for Stephen , and much enriching him . 
On this evidence the Archbishop of Canterbury crowned him . 
The new King , so suddenly made , lost not a moment in seizing the Royal treasure , and hiring foreign soldiers with some of it to protect his throne . 
But he had , in fact , bequeathed all his territory to Matilda who , supported by ROBERT , Earl of Gloucester , soon began to dispute the crown . 
Matilda then submitted herself to the Priests , and the Priests crowned her Queen of England . 
She did not long enjoy this dignity . 
Then , the long war went on afresh . 
All this she did , but to no great purpose then for her brother dying while the struggle was yet going on , she at last withdrew to Normandy . 
Edmund's Bury , where he presently died mad . 
Thus terminated the bitter war , which had now lasted fifteen years , and had again laid England waste . 
In the next year STEPHEN died , after a troubled reign of nineteen years . 
, every Noble had his strong Castle , where he reigned the cruel king of all the neighbouring people . 
Accordingly , he perpetrated whatever cruelties he chose . 
And never were worse cruelties committed upon earth than in wretched England in those nineteen years . 
The writers who were living then describe them fearfully . 
In England there was no corn , no meat , no cheese , no butter , there were no tilled lands , no harvests . 
The reign of King Henry the Second began well . 
was lord of one third part of France . 
He was a young man of vigour , ability , and resolution , and immediately applied himself to remove some of the evils which had arisen in the last unhappy reign . 
However , the war came to nothing at last , and the Pope made the two Kings friends again . 
Now , the clergy , in the troubles of the last reign , had gone on very ill indeed . 
a good opportunity for doing so , in the death of the Archbishop of Canterbury . 
Once upon a time , a worthy merchant of London , named GILBERT A BECKET , made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land , and was taken prisoner by a Saracen lord . 
, of which LONDON was one , and his own name , GILBERT , the other . 
danced with joy the whole day of the wedding and they all lived happy ever afterwards . 
This merchant and this Saracen lady had one son , THOMAS A BECKET . 
He it was who became the Favourite of King Henry the Second . 
He had become Chancellor , when the King thought of making him Archbishop . 
He lived in a noble palace , he was the tutor of the young Prince Henry , he was served by one hundred and forty knights , his riches were immense . 
Once , when they were riding together through the streets of London in hard winter weather , they saw a shivering old man in rags . 
'Look at the poor object ! said the King . 
'Come ! cried the King , 'then give him your cloak ! It was made of rich crimson trimmed with ermine . 
For , courtiers are not only eager to laugh when the King laughs , but they really do enjoy a laugh against a Favourite . 
'I will make , thought King Henry the second , 'this Chancellor of mine , Thomas a Becket , Archbishop of Canterbury . 
He will then be the head of the Church , and , being devoted to me , will help me to correct the Church . 
, that men of the Church were equally bound to me , with men of the sword . 
Thomas a Becket is the man , of all other men in England , to help me in my great design . 
Now , Thomas a Becket was proud and loved to be famous . 
He was already famous for the pomp of his life , for his riches , his gold and silver plate , his waggons , horses , and attendants . 
, he longed to have his name celebrated for something else . 
Nothing , he knew , would render him so famous in the world , as the setting of his utmost power and ability against the utmost power and ability of the King . 
He resolved with the whole strength of his mind to do it . 
He may have had some secret grudge against the King besides . 
The King may have offended his proud humour at some time or other , for anything I know . 
I think it likely , because it is a common thing for Kings , Princes , and other great people , to try the tempers of their favourites rather severely . 
Even the little affair of the crimson cloak must have been anything but a pleasant one to a haughty man . 
Thomas a Becket knew better than any one in England what the King expected of him . 
In all his sumptuous life , he had never yet been in a position to disappoint the King . 
So , of a sudden , he completely altered the whole manner of his life . 
, flogged his back to punish himself , lived chiefly in a little cell , washed the feet of thirteen poor people every day , and looked as miserable as he possibly could . 
It soon caused him to be more talked about as an Archbishop than he had been as a Chancellor . 
Excommunication was , next to the Interdict I told you of at the close of the last chapter , the great weapon of the clergy . 
So , the King said to the New Archbishop , 'Take off this Excommunication from this gentleman of Kent . 
To which the Archbishop replied , 'I shall do no such thing . 
A priest in Worcestershire committed a most dreadful murder , that aroused the horror of the whole nation . 
The King demanded to have this wretch delivered up , to be tried in the same court and in the same way as any other murderer . 
The Archbishop refused , and kept him in the Bishop's prison . 
This really meant that they would only obey those customs when they did not interfere with their own claims and the King went out of the Hall in great wrath . 
Some of the clergy began to be afraid , now , that they were going too far . 
The King received this submission favourably , and summoned a great council of the clergy to meet at the Castle of Clarendon , by Salisbury . 
were stated in writing , and were signed and sealed by the chief of the clergy , and were called the Constitutions of Clarendon . 
The quarrel went on , for all that . 
The Archbishop tried to see the King . 
The King would not see him . 
The Archbishop tried to escape from England . 
The sailors on the coast would launch no boat to take him away . 
Then , he again resolved to do his worst in opposition to the King , and began openly to set the ancient customs at defiance . 
Thomas a Becket was alone against the whole assembly , and the very Bishops advised him to resign his office and abandon his contest with the King . 
His great anxiety and agitation stretched him on a sick bed for two days , but he was still undaunted . 
He went to the adjourned council , carrying a great cross in his right hand , and sat down holding it erect before him . 
The King angrily retired into an inner room . 
The whole assembly angrily retired and left him there . 
The Bishops came out again in a body , and renounced him as a traitor . 
He only said , 'I hear ! and sat there still . 
They retired again into the inner room , and his trial proceeded without him . 
By and by , the Earl of Leicester , heading the barons , came out to read his sentence . 
He refused to hear it , denied the power of the court , and said he would refer his cause to the Pope . 
He proudly turned his head , and said that were he not Archbishop , he would chastise those cowards with the sword he had known how to use in bygone days . 
The struggle still went on . 
The angry King took possession of the revenues of the archbishopric , and banished all the relations and servants of Thomas a Becket , to the number of four hundred . 
The Pope and the French King both protected him , and an abbey was assigned for his residence . 
But he was soon up and doing . 
Meanwhile , Thomas a Becket , for his part , was not idle at Rome , but constantly employed his utmost arts in his own behalf . 
, and until the two children of the two Kings were married in celebration of it . 
Then , the French King brought about a meeting between Henry and his old favourite , so long his enemy . 
Even then , though Thomas a Becket knelt before the King , he was obstinate and immovable as to those words about his order . 
King Louis of France was weak enough in his veneration for Thomas a Becket and such men , but this was a little too much for him . 
He said that a Becket 'wanted to be greater than the saints and better than St . 
Peter , and rode away from him with the King of England . 
His poor French Majesty asked a Becket's pardon for so doing , however , soon afterwards , and cut a very pitiful figure . 
At last , and after a world of trouble , it came to this . 
And now , indeed , you might suppose the struggle at an end , and Thomas a Becket at rest . 
NO , not even yet . 
Thomas a Becket then came over to England himself , after an absence of seven years . 
The common people received him well , and marched about with him in a soldierly way , armed with such rustic weapons as they could get . 
He tried to see the young prince who had once been his pupil , but was prevented . 
He hoped for some little support among the nobles and priests , but found none . 
before the Archbishop , in his own house , at two o'clock in the afternoon . 
They neither bowed nor spoke , but sat down on the floor in silence , staring at the Archbishop . 
Thomas a Becket defiantly replied , that the power of the clergy was above the power of the King . 
That it was not for such men as they were , to threaten him . 
That if he were threatened by all the swords in England , he would never yield . 
'Then we will do more than threaten ! said the knights . 
And they went out with the twelve men , and put on their armour , and drew their shining swords , and came back . 
His servants , in the meantime , had shut up and barred the great gate of the palace . 
He told them , again and again , that he would not stir . 
There was a near way between his Palace and the Cathedral , by some beautiful old cloisters which you may yet see . 
He went into the Cathedral , without any hurry , and having the Cross carried before him as usual . 
When he was safely there , his servants would have fastened the door , but he said NO ! it was the house of God and not a fortress . 
As he spoke , the shadow of Reginald Fitzurse appeared in the Cathedral doorway , darkening the little light there was outside , on the dark winter evening . 
He told the monks resolutely that he would not . 
The knights came on , through the darkness , making a terrible noise with their armed tread upon the stone pavement of the church . 
'Where is the traitor ? they cried out . 
But when they cried , 'Where is the Archbishop ? he said proudly , 'I am here ! and came out of the shade and stood before them . 
The knights had no desire to kill him , if they could rid the King and themselves of him by any other means . 
They told him he must either fly or go with them . 
He said he would do neither and he threw William Tracy off with such force when he took hold of his sleeve , that Tracy reeled again . 
But the faithful Edward Gryme put out his arm , and there received the main force of the blow , so that it only made his master bleed . 
Then they cruelly killed him close to the altar of St . 
Bennet and his body fell upon the pavement , which was dirtied with his blood and brains . 
PART THE SECOND WHEN the King heard how Thomas a Becket had lost his life in Canterbury Cathedral , through the ferocity of the four Knights , he was filled with dismay . 
and he swore solemnly and publicly to his innocence , and contrived in time to make his peace . 
At last , they went humbly to Jerusalem as a penance , and there died and were buried . 
The King's opportunity arose in this way . 
The Irish were , at that time , as barbarous a people as you can well imagine . 
, had carried off the wife of a friend of his , and concealed her on an island in a bog . 
, complained to the chief King , and , with the chief King's help , drove Dermond Mac Murrough out of his dominions . 
Dermond came over to England for revenge and offered to hold his realm as a vassal of King Henry , if King Henry would help him to regain it . 
There were , in South Wales , two other broken knights of the same good for nothing sort , called ROBERT FITZ STEPHEN , and MAURICE FITZ GERALD . 
The trained English followers of these knights were so superior in all the discipline of battle to the Irish , that they beat them against immense superiority of numbers . 
You may judge from this , what kind of a gentleman an Irish King in those times was . 
The captives , all through this war , were horribly treated the victorious party making nothing of breaking their limbs , and casting them into the sea from the tops of high rocks . 
An odious marriage company those mounds of corpse's must have made , I think , and one quite worthy of the young lady's father . 
He died , after Waterford and Dublin had been taken , and various successes achieved and Strongbow became King of Leinster . 
Now came King Henry's opportunity . 
And now , their reconciliation was completed more easily and mildly by the Pope , than the King might have expected , I think . 
HENRY , now aged eighteen his secret crowning of whom had given such offence to Thomas a Becket . 
All these misguided boys , in their turn , were unnatural sons to him , and unnatural brothers to each other . 
His father , the King , consented , and it was done . 
It was no sooner done , than he demanded to have a part of his father's dominions , during his father's life . 
This being refused , he made off from his father in the night , with his bad heart full of bitterness , and took refuge at the French King's Court . 
Within a day or two , his brothers Richard and Geoffrey followed . 
Their mother tried to join them escaping in man's clothes but she was seized by King Henry's men , and immured in prison , where she lay , deservedly , for sixteen years . 
Every day , however , some grasping English noblemen , to whom the King's protection of his people from their avarice and oppression had given offence , deserted him and joined the Princes . 
But , with his fortitude and energy unshaken , King Henry met the shock of these disasters with a resolved and cheerful face . 
The conference was held beneath an old wide spreading green elm tree , upon a plain in France . 
by eighty Priests , one after another . 
For the Priests in general had found out , since a Becket's death , that they admired him of all things though they had hated him very cordially when he was alive . 
Richard resisted for six weeks but , being beaten out of castle after castle , he at last submitted too , and his father forgave him . 
To forgive these unworthy princes was only to afford them breathing time for new faithlessness . 
They were so false , disloyal , and dishonourable , that they were no more to be trusted than common thieves . 
In the very next year , Prince Henry rebelled again , and was again forgiven . 
In eight years more , Prince Richard rebelled against his elder brother and Prince Geoffrey infamously said that the brothers could never agree well together , unless they were united against their father . 
But the end of this perfidious Prince was come . 
Three years afterwards , Prince Geoffrey , being unhorsed at a tournament , had his brains trampled out by a crowd of horses passing over him . 
So , there only remained Prince Richard , and Prince John who had grown to be a young man now , and had solemnly sworn to be faithful to his father . 
But the Pope , to his honour , supported him and obliged the French King and Richard , though successful in fight , to treat for peace . 
to the French King's sister , his promised wife , whom King Henry detained in England . 
who had never rebelled against him . 
At last King Henry , deserted by his nobles one by one , distressed , exhausted , broken hearted , consented to establish peace . 
One final heavy sorrow was reserved for him , even yet . 
The first name upon this list was John , his favourite son , in whom he had trusted to the last . 
'O John ! child of my heart ! exclaimed the King , in a great agony of mind . 
But he was fond of no place now it was too true that he could care for nothing more upon this earth . 
He wildly cursed the hour when he was born , and cursed the children whom he left behind him and expired . 
As , one hundred years before , the servile followers of the Court had abandoned the Conqueror in the hour of his death , so they now abandoned his descendant . 
The very body was stripped , in the plunder of the Royal chamber and it was not easy to find the means of carrying it for burial to the abbey church of Fontevraud . 
Richard was said in after years , by way of flattery , to have the heart of a Lion . 
It would have been far better , I think , to have had the heart of a Man . 
There is a pretty story told of this Reign , called the story of FAIR ROSAMOND . 
the loveliest girl in all the world , and the King was certainly very fond of her , and the bad Queen Eleanor was certainly made jealous . 
But I am afraid I say afraid , because I like the story so much that there was no bower , no labyrinth , no silken clue , no dagger , no poison . 
It was dark and ended now faded and gone . 
Henry Plantagenet lay quiet in the abbey church of Fontevraud , in the fifty seventh year of his age never to be completed after governing England well , for nearly thirty five years . 
In the heat of this pious discovery , he punished all the leading people who had befriended him against his father . 
He could scarcely have done anything that would have been a better instance of his real nature , or a better warning to fawners and parasites not to trust in lion hearted princes . 
So , Richard certainly got the Lion's share of the wealth of this wretched treasurer , whether he had a Lion's heart or not . 
On the day of his coronation , a dreadful murdering of the Jews took place , which seems to have given great delight to numbers of savage persons calling themselves Christians . 
The Jews who had got into the Hall , were driven forth and some of the rabble cried out that the new King had commanded the unbelieving race to be put to death . 
This great cruelty lasted four and twenty hours , and only three men were punished for it . 
Even they forfeited their lives not for murdering and robbing the Jews , but for burning the houses of some Christians . 
In this way , and by selling pardons at a dear rate and by varieties of avarice and oppression , he scraped together a large treasure . 
He then appointed two Bishops to take care of his kingdom in his absence , and gave great powers and possessions to his brother John , to secure his friendship . 
Presently came the Governor , and demanded admission . 
, to the rest , 'Brethren , there is no hope for us with the Christians who are hammering at the gates and walls , and who must soon break in . 
As we and our wives and children must die , either by Christian hands , or by our own , let it be by our own . 
They made a blazing heap of all their valuables , and , when those were consumed , set the castle in flames . 
While the flames roared and crackled around them , and shooting up into the sky , turned it blood red , Jocen cut the throat of his beloved wife , and stabbed himself . 
All the others who had wives or children , did the like dreadful deed . 
After this bad beginning , Richard and his troops went on , in no very good manner , with the Holy Crusade . 
It was undertaken jointly by the King of England and his old friend Philip of France . 
They commenced the business by reviewing their forces , to the number of one hundred thousand men . 
Afterwards , they severally embarked their troops for Messina , in Sicily , which was appointed as the next place of meeting . 
that she should have a golden chair , a golden table , four and twenty silver cups , and four and twenty silver dishes . 
We shall hear again of pretty little Arthur by and by . 
, had brought out there to be his wife and sailed with them for Cyprus . 
King Richard carried on the war without him and remained in the East , meeting with a variety of adventures , nearly a year and a half . 
Sickness and death , battle and wounds , were always among them but through every difficulty King Richard fought like a giant , and worked like a common labourer . 
When Richard lay ill of a fever , Saladin sent him fresh fruits from Damascus , and snow from the mountain tops . 
Then , the English Christians , protected by the noble Saladin from Saracen revenge , visited Our Saviour's tomb and then King Richard embarked with a small force at Acre to return home . 
But he was shipwrecked in the Adriatic Sea , and was fain to pass through Germany , under an assumed name . 
The Duke's master the Emperor of Germany , and the King of France , were equally delighted to have so troublesome a monarch in safe keeping . 
But he defended himself so well , that many of the assembly were moved to tears by his eloquence and earnestness . 
This ransom the English people willingly raised . 
When Queen Eleanor took it over to Germany , it was at first evaded and refused . 
But she appealed to the honour of all the princes of the German Empire in behalf of her son , and appealed so well that it was accepted , and the King released . 
Thereupon , the King of France wrote to Prince John 'Take care of thyself . 
The devil is unchained ! Prince John had reason to fear his brother , for he had been a traitor to him in his captivity . 
He had secretly joined the French King had vowed to the English nobles and people that his brother was dead and had vainly tried to seize the crown . 
He was now in France , at a place called Evreux . 
Being the meanest and basest of men , he contrived a mean and base expedient for making himself acceptable to his brother . 
He invited the French officers of the garrison in that town to dinner , murdered them all , and then took the fortress . 
With this recommendation to the good will of a lion hearted monarch , he hastened to King Richard , fell on his knees before him , and obtained the intercession of Queen Eleanor . 
'I forgive him , said the King , 'and I hope I may forget the injury he has done me , as easily as I know he will forget my pardon . 
had fled to France in a woman's dress , and had there been encouraged and supported by the French King . 
He was not killed , though for he was dragged , half dead , at the tail of a horse to Smithfield , and there hanged . 
As the King's vassal , he sent the King half of it but the King claimed the whole . 
The lord refused to yield the whole . 
The King besieged the lord in his castle , swore that he would take the castle by storm , and hang every man of its defenders on the battlements . 
There was a strange old song in that part of the country , to the effect that in Limoges an arrow would be made by which King Richard would die . 
Although the wound was not at first considered dangerous , it was severe enough to cause the King to retire to his tent , and direct the assault to be made without him . 
By that time unskilful treatment had made the wound mortal and the King knew that he was dying . 
He directed Bertrand to be brought into his tent . 
The young man was brought there , heavily chained , King Richard looked at him steadily . 
He looked , as steadily , at the King . 
'Knave ! said King Richard . 
'What have I done to thee that thou shouldest take my life ? 'What hast thou done to me ? replied the young man . 
'With thine own hands thou hast killed my father and my two brothers . 
Myself thou wouldest have hanged . 
Let me die now , by any torture that thou wilt . 
My comfort is , that no torture can save Thee . 
Thou too must die and , through me , the world is quit of thee ! Again the King looked at the young man steadily . 
Again the young man looked steadily at him . 
Perhaps some remembrance of his generous enemy Saladin , who was not a Christian , came into the mind of the dying King . 
'Youth ! he said , 'I forgive thee . 
He sunk down on his couch , and a dark mist seemed in his weakened eyes to fill the tent wherein he had so often rested , and he died . 
His age was forty two he had reigned ten years . 
His last command was not obeyed for the chief officer flayed Bertrand de Gourdon alive , and hanged him . 
Richard was himself a Minstrel and a Poet . 
CHAPTER XIV ENGLAND UNDER KING JOHN , CALLED LACKLAND AT two and thirty years of age , JOHN became King of England . 
The French King , Philip , refused to acknowledge the right of John to his new dignity , and declared in favour of Arthur . 
You must not suppose that he had any generosity of feeling for the fatherless boy it merely suited his ambitious schemes to oppose the King of England . 
So John and the French King went to war about Arthur . 
He was a handsome boy , at that time only twelve years old . 
, lately married to her third husband . 
Young Arthur , for two years afterwards , lived quietly and in the course of that time his mother died . 
But , the French King then finding it his interest to quarrel with King John again , again made Arthur his pretence , and invited the orphan boy to court . 
'You know your rights , Prince , said the French King , 'and you would like to be a King . 
I myself , meanwhile , will head a force against him in Normandy . 
sent him five hundred more knights and five thousand foot soldiers , he believed his fortune was made . 
He did not know how could he , being so innocent and inexperienced ? that his little army was a mere nothing against the power of the King of England . 
The French King knew it but the poor boy's fate was little to him , so that the King of England was worried and distressed . 
Therefore , King Philip went his way into Normandy and Prince Arthur went his way towards Mirebeau , a French town near Poictiers , both very well pleased . 
She was old enough by this time eighty but she was as full of stratagem as she was full of years and wickedness . 
Receiving intelligence of young Arthur's approach , she shut herself up in a high tower , and encouraged her soldiers to defend it like men . 
Prince Arthur with his little army besieged the high tower . 
King John , hearing how matters stood , came up to the rescue , with HIS army . 
So here was a strange family party ! The boy Prince besieging his grandmother , and his uncle besieging him ! This position of affairs did not last long . 
Prince Arthur was sent to the castle of Falaise . 
Let him restore to me my kingdom of England , and then come to me and ask the question . 
The King looked at him and went out . 
'Keep that boy close prisoner , said he to the warden of the castle . 
Then , the King took secret counsel with the worst of his nobles how the Prince was to be got rid of . 
Some said , 'Put out his eyes and keep him in prison , as Robort of Normandy was kept . 
Others said , 'Have him stabbed . 
Others , 'Have him hanged . 
Others , 'Have him poisoned . 
, the warden of the castle , who had a love for him , and was an honourable , tender man , that Hubert could not bear it . 
To his eternal honour he prevented the torture from being performed , and , at his own risk , sent the savages away . 
The chafed and disappointed King bethought himself of the stabbing suggestion next , and , with his shuffling manner and his cruel face , proposed it to one William de Bray . 
'I am a gentleman and not an executioner , said William de Bray , and left the presence with disdain . 
But it was not difficult for a King to hire a murderer in those days . 
King John found one for his money , and sent him down to the castle of Falaise . 
'On what errand dost thou come ? said Hubert to this fellow . 
'To despatch young Arthur , he returned . 
He hurriedly dressed himself and obeyed . 
When they came to the bottom of the winding stairs , and the night air from the river blew upon their faces , the jailer trod upon his torch and put it out . 
Then , Arthur , in the darkness , was hurriedly drawn into a solitary boat . 
And in that boat , he found his uncle and one other man . 
He knelt to them , and prayed them not to murder him . 
Deaf to his entreaties , they stabbed him and sunk his body in the river with heavy stones . 
that never slept again through his whole reign . 
In Brittany , the indignation was intense . 
Arthur's own sister ELEANOR was in the power of John and shut up in a convent at Bristol , but his half sister ALICE was in Brittany . 
The people chose her , and the murdered prince's father in law , the last husband of Constance , to represent them and carried their fiery complaints to King Philip . 
to come before him and defend himself . 
King John refusing to appear , King Philip declared him false , perjured , and guilty and again made war . 
In a little time , by conquering the greater part of his French territory , King Philip deprived him of one third of his dominions . 
But he made another enemy of the Pope , which he did in this way . 
The Pope , hearing the whole story , declared that neither election would do for him , and that HE elected STEPHEN LANGTON . 
The monks submitting to the Pope , the King turned them all out bodily , and banished them as traitors . 
The Pope sent three bishops to the King , to threaten him with an Interdict . 
The bishops , nevertheless , soon published the Interdict , and fled . 
After it had lasted a year , the Pope proceeded to his next step which was Excommunication . 
King John was declared excommunicated , with all the usual ceremonies . 
That they gave him a letter from the King containing his proposals , and were gravely dismissed . 
And that this was quite enough for the Emir . 
Money being , in his position , the next best thing to men , King John spared no means of getting it . 
, and invented a new punishment for one wealthy Jew of Bristol . 
For seven days , the oppressed man bore the daily pain and lost the daily tooth but , on the eighth , he paid the money . 
With the treasure raised in such ways , the King made an expedition into Ireland , where some English nobles had revolted . 
It was one of the very few places from which he did not run away because no resistance was shown . 
To Interdict and Excommunication , the Pope now added his last sentence Deposition . 
As there was nothing that King Philip desired more than to invade England , he collected a great army at Rouen , and a fleet of seventeen hundred ships to bring them over . 
But the English people , however bitterly they hated the King , were not a people to suffer invasion quietly . 
But , at this crisis , the Pope , who had his own reasons for objecting to either King John or King Philip being too powerful , interfered . 
He entrusted a legate , whose name was PANDOLF , with the easy task of frightening King John . 
But they DO say , that this was merely a genteel flourish , and that he was afterwards seen to pick it up and pocket it . 
before the Feast of the Ascension should be past . 
That was the day after this humiliation . 
When all these matters were arranged , the King in his triumph became more fierce , and false , and insolent to all around him than he had ever been . 
And now the time approached when he was to be still further humbled , and made to feel , if he could feel anything , what a wretched creature he was . 
Of all men in the world , Stephen Langton seemed raised up by Heaven to oppose and subdue him . 
When he ruthlessly burnt and destroyed the property of his own subjects , because their Lords , the Barons , would not serve him abroad , Stephen Langton fearlessly reproved and threatened him . 
When he swore to restore the laws of King Edward , or the laws of King Henry the First , Stephen Langton knew his falsehood , and pursued him through all his evasions . 
When he took the Cross to invest himself with some interest , and belong to something that was received with favour , Stephen Langton was still immovable . 
But that did him no more good than his afterwards trying to pacify the Barons with lies . 
They called themselves and their followers , 'The army of God and the Holy Church . 
, they at last triumphantly set up their banner in London itself , whither the whole land , tired of the tyrant , seemed to flock to join them . 
'Then , said the Barons , 'let the day be the fifteenth of June , and the place , Runny Mead . 
On the side of the Barons , came the General of their army , ROBERT FITZ WALTER , and a great concourse of the nobility of England . 
With the King , came , in all , some four and twenty persons of any note , most of whom despised him , and were merely his advisers in form . 
All this he was obliged to yield . 
He signed the charter with a smile , and , if he could have looked agreeable , would have done so , as he departed from the splendid assembly . 
When he got home to Windsor Castle , he was quite a madman in his helpless fury . 
And he broke the charter immediately afterwards . 
The Barons , however , found him out and put it off . 
Nor was this all for the Pope , coming to the aid of his precious friend , laid the kingdom under an Interdict again , because the people took part with the Barons . 
It did not much matter , for the people had grown so used to it now , that they had begun to think nothing about it . 
It occurred to them perhaps to Stephen Langton too that they could keep their churches open , and ring their bells , without the Pope's permission as well as with it . 
So , they tried the experiment and found that it succeeded perfectly . 
, and went on to London . 
Rather than suffer this , some of the Barons hesitated others even went over to King John . 
It seemed to be the turning point of King John's fortunes , for , in his savage and murderous course , he had now taken some towns and met with some successes . 
But , happily for England and humanity , his death was near . 
Crossing a dangerous quicksand , called the Wash , not very far from Wisbeach , the tide came up and nearly drowned his army . 
All night he lay ill of a burning fever , and haunted with horrible fears . 
Next day , they put him in a horse litter , and carried him to Sleaford Castle , where he passed another night of pain and horror . 
The next thing to be done , was to get rid of Prince Louis of France , and to win over those English Barons who were still ranged under his banner . 
He was strong in many parts of England , and in London itself and he held , among other places , a certain Castle called the Castle of Mount Sorel , in Leicestershire . 
To this fortress , after some skirmishing and truce making , Lord Pembroke laid siege . 
Louis despatched an army of six hundred knights and twenty thousand soldiers to relieve it . 
Lord Pembroke , who was not strong enough for such a force , retired with all his men . 
, made such a sturdy resistance , that the French Count in command of the army of the French Prince found it necessary to besiege this Castle . 
'What care I ? said the French Count . 
The wife of Louis , the fair BLANCHE OF CASTILE , dutifully equipped a fleet of eighty good ships , and sent it over from France to her husband's aid . 
An English fleet of forty ships , some good and some bad , gallantly met them near the mouth of the Thames , and took or sunk sixty five in one fight . 
This great loss put an end to the French Prince's hopes . 
It was time to go for war had made him so poor that he was obliged to borrow money from the citizens of London to pay his expenses home . 
Lord Pembroke afterwards applied himself to governing the country justly , and to healing the quarrels and disturbances that had arisen among men in the days of the bad King John . 
It would have been well for England if it could have had so good a Protector many years longer , but that was not to be . 
Within three years after the young King's Coronation , Lord Pembroke died and you may see his tomb , at this day , in the old Temple Church in London . 
The Protectorship was now divided . 
These two personages had from the first no liking for each other , and soon became enemies . 
When the young King was declared of age , Peter de Roches , finding that Hubert increased in power and favour , retired discontentedly , and went abroad . 
For nearly ten years afterwards Hubert had full sway alone . 
But ten years is a long time to hold the favour of a King . 
This King , too , as he grew up , showed a strong resemblance to his father , in feebleness , inconsistency , and irresolution . 
The best that can be said of him is that he was not cruel . 
De Roches coming home again , after ten years , and being a novelty , the King began to favour him and to look coldly on Hubert . 
Wanting money besides , and having made Hubert rich , he began to dislike Hubert . 
Besides which , the foolish charge was brought against Hubert that he had made himself the King's favourite by magic . 
They came up with him at a little town in Essex , called Brentwood , when he was in bed . 
He leaped out of bed , got out of the house , fled to the church , ran up to the altar , and laid his hand upon the cross . 
For thirty nine days , Hubert de Burgh remained within . 
And thus end more happily than the stories of many favourites of Kings the adventures of Earl Hubert de Burgh . 
But , the Parliament were determined to give him no money for such a war . 
But he only got well beaten , and came home . 
The good humour of the Parliament was not restored by this . 
In all this contention , the Londoners were particularly keen against the King , and the King hated them warmly in return . 
while the Archbishop of Canterbury read the sentence of excommunication against any man , and all men , who should henceforth , in any way , infringe the Great Charter of the Kingdom . 
When he had done , they all put out their burning candles with a curse upon the soul of any one , and every one , who should merit that sentence . 
He took to his old courses again when he was supplied with money , and soon cured of their weakness the few who had ever really trusted him . 
It was exactly so in this case . 
It was necessary to conquer the Sicilian Crown before it could be put upon young Edmund's head . 
It could not be conquered without money . 
The Pope ordered the clergy to raise money . 
The Bishop of Worcester was as bold as the Bishop of London , and would pay nothing either . 
, and sent the King of England in , a bill of one hundred thousand pounds for the expenses of not having won it . 
The King was now so much distressed that we might almost pity him , if it were possible to pity a King so shabby and ridiculous . 
His clever brother , Richard , had bought the title of King of the Romans from the German people , and was no longer near him , to help him with advice . 
The clergy , resisting the very Pope , were in alliance with the Barons . 
When the King next met his Parliament , the Barons , led by this Earl , came before him , armed from head to foot , and cased in armour . 
But , at a good time for him , his brother Richard came back . 
was to swear to be faithful to the Committee of Government which he immediately began to oppose with all his might . 
Then , the Barons began to quarrel among themselves especially the proud Earl of Gloucester with the Earl of Leicester , who went abroad in disgust . 
Then , the people began to be dissatisfied with the Barons , because they did not do enough for them . 
As everybody knew he had been nothing of the sort , nobody cared much for this document . 
It fell out , therefore , that these two Earls joined their forces , took several of the Royal Castles in the country , and advanced as hard as they could on London . 
The London people , always opposed to the King , declared for them with great joy . 
The King himself remained shut up , not at all gloriously , in the Tower . 
Prince Edward made the best of his way to Windsor Castle . 
Paul's until the danger was past . 
The good King of France was asked to decide between them . 
The Barons declared that these were not fair terms , and they would not accept them . 
Then they caused the great bell of St . 
Paul's to be tolled , for the purpose of rousing up the London people , who armed themselves at the dismal sound and formed quite an army in the streets . 
What they really did keep in their houses was money and this their cruel enemies wanted , and this their cruel enemies took , like robbers and murderers . 
The Earl of Leicester put himself at the head of these Londoners and other forces , and followed the King to Lewes in Sussex , where he lay encamped with his army . 
White crossed accordingly , they rushed into the fight . 
He was taken Prisoner so was the King so was the King's brother the King of the Romans and five thousand Englishmen were left dead upon the bloody grass . 
For this success , the Pope excommunicated the Earl of Leicester which neither the Earl nor the people cared at all about . 
The conspiring Lords found means to propose to him , in secret , that they should assist him to escape , and should make him their leader to which he very heartily consented . 
, 'I should like to ride on horseback , this fine afternoon , a little way into the country . 
As they , too , thought it would be very pleasant to have a canter in the sunshine , they all rode out of the town together in a gay little troop . 
The Prince rode no matches himself , but looked on from his saddle , and staked his money . 
Thus they passed the whole merry afternoon . 
'What does the fellow mean ? said the attendants one to another . 
The Prince joined the Earl of Gloucester at Ludlow . 
The Earl of Leicester , with a part of the army and the stupid old King , was at Hereford . 
One of the Earl of Leicester's sons , Simon de Montfort , with another part of the army , was in Sussex . 
To prevent these two parts from uniting was the Prince's first object . 
He attacked Simon de Montfort by night , defeated him , seized his banners and treasure , and forced him into Kenilworth Castle in Warwickshire , which belonged to his family . 
He came , on a bright morning in August , to Evesham , which is watered by the pleasant river Avon . 
Looking rather anxiously across the prospect towards Kenilworth , he saw his own banners advancing and his face brightened with joy . 
But , it clouded darkly when he presently perceived that the banners were captured , and in the enemy's hands and he said , 'It is over . 
The Lord have mercy on our souls , for our bodies are Prince Edward's ! He fought like a true Knight , nevertheless . 
When his horse was killed under him , he fought on foot . 
It was a fierce battle , and the dead lay in heaps everywhere . 
But he managed to pipe out , 'I am Harry of Winchester ! and the Prince , who heard him , seized his bridle , and took him out of peril . 
They mangled his body , and sent it as a present to a noble lady but a very unpleasant lady , I should think who was the wife of his worst enemy . 
They could not mangle his memory in the minds of the faithful people , though . 
Many years afterwards , they loved him more than ever , and regarded him as a Saint , and always spoke of him as 'Sir Simon the Righteous . 
And even though he was dead , the cause for which he had fought still lived , and was strong , and forced itself upon the King in the very hour of victory . 
There were more risings before all this was done , but they were set at rest by these means , and Prince Edward did his best in all things to restore peace . 
Sir Adam was not ungrateful . 
He ever afterwards remained devoted to his generous conqueror . 
, his brother the weak King of England died . 
He was sixty eight years old then , and had reigned fifty six years . 
He was as much of a King in death , as he had ever been in life . 
He was the mere pale shadow of a King at all times . 
So King Edward the First , called , in a not very complimentary manner , LONGSHANKS , because of the slenderness of his legs , was peacefully accepted by the English Nation . 
But , the moment Edward stretched out his hand to take the letter , the tiger made a spring at his heart . 
He was quick , but Edward was quick too . 
He seized the traitor by his chocolate throat , threw him to the ground , and slew him with the very dagger he had drawn . 
, Edward soon recovered and was sound again . 
As the King his father had sent entreaties to him to return home , he now began the journey . 
He had got as far as Italy , when he met messengers who brought him intelligence of the King's death . 
But all this came to pass . 
There was , and there is , an old town standing in a plain in France , called Ch lons . 
The King , however , nothing afraid , went to the appointed place on the appointed day with a thousand followers . 
There had been such fury shown in this fight , that it was afterwards called the little Battle of Ch lons . 
, and went on to Westminster where he and his good Queen were crowned with great magnificence , splendid rejoicings took place . 
To dismiss this sad subject of the Jews for the present , I am sorry to add that in this reign they were most unmercifully pillaged . 
They were hanged in great numbers , on accusations of having clipped the King's coin which all kinds of people had done . 
Finally , every kind of property belonging to them was seized by the King , except so little as would defray the charge of their taking themselves away into foreign countries . 
Many years elapsed before the hope of gain induced any of their race to return to England , where they had been treated so heartlessly and had suffered so much . 
If King Edward the First had been as bad a king to Christians as he was to Jews , he would have been bad indeed . 
But he was , in general , a wise and great monarch , under whom the country much improved . 
He had no love for the Great Charter few Kings had , through many , many years but he had high qualities . 
In the course of King Edward's reign he was engaged , besides , in a war with France . 
To make these quarrels clearer , we will separate their histories and take them thus . 
LLEWELLYN was the Prince of Wales . 
He had been on the side of the Barons in the reign of the stupid old King , but had afterwards sworn allegiance to him . 
When King Edward came to the throne , Llewellyn was required to swear allegiance to him also which he refused to do . 
The King , being crowned and in his own dominions , three times more required Llewellyn to come and do homage and three times more Llewellyn said he would rather not . 
Upon this , the quarrel came to a head . 
The King , however , forgave him some of the hardest conditions of the treaty , and consented to his marriage . 
And he now thought he had reduced Wales to obedience . 
Englishmen , after this affair , began to be insolent in Wales , and to assume the air of masters and the Welsh pride could not bear it . 
King Edward had bought over PRINCE DAVID , Llewellyn's brother , by heaping favours upon him but he was the first to revolt , being perhaps troubled in his conscience . 
Upon this , the Welsh people rose like one man . 
He subdued the Island of Anglesea , and sent his men forward to observe the enemy . 
The sudden appearance of the Welsh created a panic among them , and they fell back to the bridge . 
David , however , still held out for six months , though eagerly sought after by the King , and hunted by his own countrymen . 
One of them finally betrayed him with his wife and children . 
is to the country that permits on any consideration such abominable barbarity . 
The King did better things for the Welsh than that , by improving their laws and encouraging their trade . 
There is a legend that to prevent the people from being incited to rebellion by the songs of their bards and harpers , Edward had them all put to death . 
The foreign war of the reign of Edward the First arose in this way . 
This so enraged the English sailors that there was no restraining them and whenever , and wherever , English sailors met Norman sailors , they fell upon each other tooth and nail . 
King Edward's fame had been so high abroad that he had been chosen to decide a difference between France and another foreign power , and had lived upon the Continent three years . 
King Edward , as Duke of Guienne , was summoned to present himself before the King of France , at Paris , and answer for the damage done by his sailor subjects . 
At first , he sent the Bishop of London as his representative , and then his brother EDMUND , who was married to the French Queen's mother . 
King Edward was a King to win his foreign dukedom back again , if it could be won by energy and valour . 
He raised a large army , renounced his allegiance as Duke of Guienne , and crossed the sea to carry war into France . 
Before any important battle was fought , however , a truce was agreed upon for two years and in the course of that time , the Pope effected a reconciliation . 
Out of bad things , good things sometimes arise . 
Out of this hanging of the innocent merchant , and the bloodshed and strife it caused , there came to be established one of the greatest powers that the English people now possess . 
The King tried every means of raising money . 
But all would not do . 
The King was very unwilling to diminish his own power by allowing this great privilege in the Parliament but there was no help for it , and he at last complied . 
We shall come to another King by and by , who might have saved his head from rolling off , if he had profited by this example . 
The people gained other benefits in Parliament from the good sense and wisdom of this King . 
in various parts of the country . 
And now we come to Scotland , which was the great and lasting trouble of the reign of King Edward the First . 
About thirteen years after King Edward's coronation , Alexander the Third , the King of Scotland , died of a fall from his horse . 
He had been married to Margaret , King Edward's sister . 
A great commotion immediately began in Scotland , where as many as thirteen noisy claimants to the vacant throne started up and made a general confusion . 
King Edward being much renowned for his sagacity and justice , it seems to have been agreed to refer the dispute to him . 
He accepted the trust , and went , with an army , to the Border land where England and Scotland joined . 
There , he called upon the Scottish gentlemen to meet him at the Castle of Norham , on the English side of the river Tweed and to that Castle they came . 
At the end of the three weeks , another meeting took place , on a green plain on the Scottish side of the river . 
Of all the competitors for the Scottish throne , there were only two who had any real claim , in right of their near kindred to the Royal Family . 
These were JOHN BALIOL and ROBERT BRUCE and the right was , I have no doubt , on the side of John Baliol . 
Next day , John Baliol appeared , and said the same . 
This point settled , some arrangements were made for inquiring into their titles . 
The inquiry occupied a pretty long time more than a year . 
Scotland had a strong will of its own yet , however . 
, and to give up , as security for his good behaviour in future , the three strong Scottish Castles of Jedburgh , Roxburgh , and Berwick . 
LORD WARRENNE , Earl of Surrey , then went on to the Castle of Dunbar , before which a battle was fought , and the whole Scottish army defeated with great slaughter . 
Baliol had the Tower of London lent him for a residence , with permission to range about within a circle of twenty miles . 
Now , there was , in the West of Scotland , a gentleman of small fortune , named WILLIAM WALLACE , the second son of a Scottish knight . 
One day , an Englishman in office , little knowing what he was , affronted HIM . 
The English Guardian of the Kingdom fled before him , and , thus encouraged , the Scottish people revolted everywhere , and fell upon the English without mercy . 
The Earl of Surrey , by the King's commands , raised all the power of the Border counties , and two English armies poured into Scotland . 
Across the river there was only one poor wooden bridge , called the bridge of Kildean so narrow , that but two men could cross it abreast . 
With his eyes upon this bridge , Wallace posted the greater part of his men among some rising grounds , and waited calmly . 
When the English army came up on the opposite bank of the river , messengers were sent forward to offer terms . 
Wallace sent them back with a defiance , in the name of the freedom of Scotland . 
Some of the officers of the Earl of Surrey in command of the English , with THEIR eyes also on the bridge , advised him to be discreet and not hasty . 
One thousand English crossed the bridge , two abreast the Scottish troops were as motionless as stone images . 
Two thousand English crossed three thousand , four thousand , five . 
Not a feather , all this time , had been seen to stir among the Scottish bonnets . 
Now , they all fluttered . 
Cressingham himself was killed , and the Scotch made whips for their horses of his skin . 
But , after a few winter months , the King returned , and took the field with more than his usual energy . 
Forward ! and led his army on to near Falkirk , where the Scottish forces were seen drawn up on some stony ground , behind a morass . 
Here , he defeated Wallace , and killed fifteen thousand of his men . 
With the shattered remainder , Wallace drew back to Stirling but , being pursued , set fire to the town that it might give no help to the English , and escaped . 
The inhabitants of Perth afterwards set fire to their houses for the same reason , and the King , unable to find provisions , was forced to withdraw his army . 
, and also JOHN COMYN , Baliol's nephew . 
These two young men might agree in opposing Edward , but could agree in nothing else , as they were rivals for the throne of Scotland . 
Sir John was not as careful as he should have been , but encamped at Rosslyn , near Edinburgh , with his army divided into three parts . 
The Scottish forces saw their advantage fell on each part separately defeated each and killed all the prisoners . 
The Scottish cause now looked so hopeless , that Comyn and the other nobles made submission and received their pardons . 
Nothing could break his spirit nothing could lower his courage nothing could induce him to forget or to forgive his country's wrongs . 
Who betrayed William Wallace in the end , is not quite certain . 
That he was betrayed probably by an attendant is too true . 
he was , because he had taken spoil from the King's men . 
What they called a murderer , he was , because he had slain an insolent Englishman . 
What they called a traitor , he was not , for he had never sworn allegiance to the King , and had ever scorned to do it . 
He was dragged at the tails of horses to West Smithfield , and there hanged on a high gallows , torn open before he was dead , beheaded , and quartered . 
His head was set upon a pole on London Bridge , his right arm was sent to Newcastle , his left arm to Berwick , his legs to Perth and Aberdeen . 
Wallace will be remembered in songs and stories , while there are songs and stories in the English tongue , and Scotland will hold him dear while her lakes and mountains last . 
Comyn and Bruce conspired , and made an appointment to meet at Dumfries , in the church of the Minorites . 
, he met an evil looking serving man , a messenger of Comyn , whom he killed , and concealed in whose dress he found letters that proved Comyn's treachery . 
When Bruce came out , pale and disturbed , the friends who were waiting for him asked what was the matter ? 'I think I have killed Comyn , said he . 
'You only think so ? returned one of them 'I will make sure ! and going into the church , and finding him alive , stabbed him again and again . 
When the King heard of it he kindled with fiercer anger than he had ever shown yet . 
And before all the company , he charged the Prince his son , in case that he should die before accomplishing his vow , not to bury him until it was fulfilled . 
Bruce , after losing a battle and undergoing many dangers and much misery , fled to Ireland , where he lay concealed through the winter . 
That winter , Edward passed in hunting down and executing Bruce's relations and adherents , sparing neither youth nor age , and showing no touch of pity or sign of mercy . 
In the following spring , Bruce reappeared and gained some victories . 
In these frays , both sides were grievously cruel . 
For instance Bruce's two brothers , being taken captives desperately wounded , were ordered by the King to instant execution . 
Bruce , still successful , however , drove the Earl of Pembroke and the Earl of Gloucester into the Castle of Ayr and laid siege to it . 
He was now sixty nine years old , and had reigned thirty five years . 
CHAPTER XVII ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE SECOND KING Edward the Second , the first Prince of Wales , was twenty three years old when his father died . 
, and sent for his dear friend immediately . 
Now , this same Gaveston was handsome enough , but was a reckless , insolent , audacious fellow . 
It was not come yet , however , nor did it seem to be coming . 
, being over , he seemed to care little or nothing for his beautiful wife but was wild with impatience to meet Gaveston again . 
At the coronation which soon followed , Gaveston was the richest and brightest of all the glittering company there , and had the honour of carrying the crown . 
The Barons were so unceremonious with the King in giving him to understand that they would not bear this favourite , that the King was obliged to send him out of the country . 
that he would never come back , and the Barons supposed him to be banished in disgrace , until they heard that he was appointed Governor of Ireland . 
He had now the old Royal want of money and the Barons had the new power of positively refusing to let him raise any . 
He summoned a Parliament at York the Barons refused to make one , while the favourite was near him . 
He summoned another Parliament at Westminster , and sent Gaveston away . 
Then , the Barons came , completely armed , and appointed a committee of themselves to correct abuses in the state and in the King's household . 
Further , that Gaveston should once more be banished , and , this time , on pain of death if he ever came back . 
The King's tears were of no avail he was obliged to send his favourite to Flanders . 
And once again he brought Gaveston home , and heaped upon him all the riches and titles of which the Barons had deprived him . 
The Lords saw , now , that there was nothing for it but to put the favourite to death . 
They could have done so , legally , according to the terms of his banishment but they did so , I am sorry to say , in a shabby manner . 
Led by the Earl of Lancaster , the King's cousin , they first of all attacked the King and Gaveston at Newcastle . 
They had time to escape by sea , and the mean King , having his precious Gaveston with him , was quite content to leave his lovely wife behind . 
This was what the Barons wanted . 
They knew that the Castle could not hold out they attacked it , and made Gaveston surrender . 
Now , it was agreed with Gaveston that he should be taken to the Castle of Wallingford , and there kept in honourable custody . 
They travelled as far as Dedington , near Banbury , where , in the Castle of that place , they stopped for a night to rest . 
In the morning , while the favourite was yet in bed , he was required to dress himself and come down into the court yard . 
He did so without any mistrust , but started and turned pale when he found it full of strange armed men . 
'I think you know me ? said their leader , also armed from head to foot . 
'I am the black dog of Ardenne ! The time was come when Piers Gaveston was to feel the black dog's teeth indeed . 
Let him go now , and you must hunt him again . 
They sentenced him to death . 
He threw himself at the feet of the Earl of Lancaster the old hog but the old hog was as savage as the dog . 
When the King heard of this black deed , in his grief and rage he denounced relentless war against his Barons , and both sides were in arms for half a year . 
On the very evening , when the King came up , Bruce did a brave act that encouraged his men . 
to overthrow Bruce by crushing him with his mere weight , set spurs to his great charger , rode on him , and made a thrust at him with his heavy spear . 
Bruce parried the thrust , and with one blow of his battle axe split his skull . 
The Scottish men did not forget this , next day when the battle raged . 
But , they fought so well , and did such dreadful execution , that the English staggered . 
Then came Bruce himself upon them , with all the rest of his army . 
had had pits dug in the ground , and covered over with turfs and stakes . 
Into these , as they gave way beneath the weight of the horses , riders and horses rolled by hundreds . 
The fortunes of Scotland were , for the time , completely changed and never was a battle won , more famous upon Scottish ground , than this great battle of BANNOCKBURN . 
Plague and famine succeeded in England and still the powerless King and his disdainful Lords were always in contention . 
Some of the turbulent chiefs of Ireland made proposals to Bruce , to accept the rule of that country . 
He sent his brother Edward to them , who was crowned King of Ireland . 
He afterwards went himself to help his brother in his Irish wars , but his brother was defeated in the end and killed . 
Robert Bruce , returning to Scotland , still increased his strength there . 
As the King's ruin had begun in a favourite , so it seemed likely to end in one . 
He was too poor a creature to rely at all upon himself and his new favourite was one HUGH LE DESPENSER , the son of a gentleman of ancient family . 
Hugh was handsome and brave , but he was the favourite of a weak King , whom no man cared a rush for , and that was a dangerous place to hold . 
The Nobles leagued against him , because the King liked him and they lay in wait , both for his ruin and his father's . 
Now , the King had married him to the daughter of the late Earl of Gloucester , and had given both him and his father great possessions in Wales . 
His turn of triumph came sooner than he expected . 
It arose out of an accidental circumstance . 
The beautiful Queen happening to be travelling , came one night to one of the royal castles , and demanded to be lodged and entertained there until morning . 
Upon this , the confederate lords and the Welshmen went over to Bruce . 
He was insulted , pelted , mounted on a starved pony without saddle or bridle , carried out , and beheaded . 
Eight and twenty knights were hanged , drawn , and quartered . 
One prisoner , and an important one , who was taken at Boroughbridge , made his escape , however , and turned the tide against the King . 
This was ROGER MORTIMER , always resolutely opposed to him , who was sentenced to death , and placed for safe custody in the Tower of London . 
He finally escaped to France , where CHARLES LE BEL , the brother of the beautiful Queen , was King . 
Charles sought to quarrel with the King of England , on pretence of his not having come to do him homage at his coronation . 
The King sent him but , both he and the Queen remained at the French Court , and Roger Mortimer became the Queen's lover . 
, but said she was afraid of the two Despensers . 
In short , her design was to overthrow the favourites' power , and the King's power , such as it was , and invade England . 
He was a venerable old man , upwards of ninety years of age , but his age gained no respect or mercy . 
He was hanged , torn open while he was yet alive , cut up into pieces , and thrown to the dogs . 
The wretched King was running here and there , all this time , and never getting anywhere in particular , until he gave himself up , and was taken off to Kenilworth Castle . 
When he was safely lodged there , the Queen went to London and met the Parliament . 
Being asked in this pressing manner what he thought of resigning , the King said he thought it was the best thing he could do . 
So , he did it , and they proclaimed his son next day . 
But he was shamefully humiliated . 
he fell into the hands of two black ruffians , called THOMAS GOURNAY and WILLIAM OGLE . 
, was far from profiting by the examples he had had of the fate of favourites . 
The young King , who was crowned at fourteen years of age with all the usual solemnities , resolved not to bear this , and soon pursued Mortimer to his ruin . 
The nobles hated Mortimer because of his pride , riches , and power . 
They went so far as to take up arms against him but were obliged to submit . 
This was made out to be high treason , and he was tried , found guilty , and sentenced to be executed . 
They took the poor old lord outside the town of Winchester , and there kept him waiting some three or four hours until they could find somebody to cut off his head . 
While the Queen was in France , she had found a lovely and good young lady , named Philippa , who she thought would make an excellent wife for her son . 
The young King , thinking the time ripe for the downfall of Mortimer , took counsel with Lord Montacute how he should proceed . 
A Parliament was going to be held at Nottingham , and that lord recommended that the favourite should be seized by night in Nottingham Castle , where he was sure to be . 
They soon heard the voice of Mortimer in council with some friends and bursting into the room with a sudden noise , took him prisoner . 
Mortimer was found guilty of all this , and was sentenced to be hanged at Tyburn . 
The King shut his mother up in genteel confinement , where she passed the rest of her life and now he became King in earnest . 
The first effort he made was to conquer Scotland . 
He was joined , when thus triumphant , by the King and Parliament and he and the King in person besieged the Scottish forces in Berwick . 
The whole Scottish army coming to the assistance of their countrymen , such a furious battle ensued , that thirty thousand men are said to have been killed in it . 
France was a far richer country than Scotland , and the King had a much greater mind to conquer it . 
So , he let Scotland alone , and pretended that he had a claim to the French throne in right of his mother . 
He had , in reality , no claim at all but that mattered little in those times . 
The next year he did better gaining a great sea fight in the harbour of Sluys . 
This success , however , was very shortlived , for the Flemings took fright at the siege of Saint Omer and ran away , leaving their weapons and baggage behind them . 
The French King said , he thanked him but being very well as he was , he would rather not . 
So , after some skirmishing and talking , a short peace was made . 
They took fire at this appeal , and rallied round her in the strong castle of Hennebon . 
This done , she got safely back to Hennebon again , and was received with loud shouts of joy by the defenders of the castle , who had given her up for lost . 
This noble lady distinguished herself afterwards in a sea fight with the French off Guernsey , when she was on her way to England to ask for more troops . 
, to distinguish herself scarcely less . 
The time was fast coming , however , when Edward , Prince of Wales , was to be the great star of this French and English war . 
And , although the French King had an enormous army in number more than eight times his he there resolved to beat him or be beaten . 
Then the whole army breakfasted , each man sitting on the ground where he had stood and then they remained quietly on the ground with their weapons ready . 
Up came the French King with all his great force . 
It was dark and angry weather there was an eclipse of the sun there was a thunder storm , accompanied with tremendous rain the frightened birds flew screaming above the soldiers' heads . 
A certain captain in the French army advised the French King , who was by no means cheerful , not to begin the battle until the morrow . 
The King , taking this advice , gave the word to halt . 
But , those behind not understanding it , or desiring to be foremost with the rest , came pressing on . 
When the French King saw the Genoese turning , he cried out to his men to kill those scoundrels , who were doing harm instead of service . 
'Is my son killed ? said the King . 
'No , sire , please God , returned the messenger . 
'Is he wounded ? said the King . 
'Is he thrown to the ground ? said the King . 
'No , sire , not so but , he is very hard pressed . 
The King of France charged gallantly with his men many times but it was of no use . 
At last , some of his few remaining followers led him off the field by force since he would not retire of himself , and they journeyed away to Amiens . 
He bore as his crest three white ostrich feathers , with the motto ICH DIEN , signifying in English 'I serve . 
This crest and motto were taken by the Prince of Wales in remembrance of that famous day , and have been borne by the Prince of Wales ever since . 
Five days after this great battle , the King laid siege to Calais . 
This siege ever afterwards memorable lasted nearly a year . 
Philip made one effort to give them relief but they were so hemmed in by the English power , that he could not succeed , and was fain to leave the place . 
Upon this they hoisted the English flag , and surrendered to King Edward . 
Encouraged by this bright example , five other worthy citizens rose up one after another , and offered themselves to save the rest . 
Edward received them wrathfully , and ordered the heads of the whole six to be struck off . 
However , the good Queen fell upon her knees , and besought the King to give them up to her . 
The King replied , 'I wish you had been somewhere else but I cannot refuse you . 
So she had them properly dressed , made a feast for them , and sent them back with a handsome present , to the great rejoicing of the whole camp . 
I hope the people of Calais loved the daughter to whom she gave birth soon afterwards , for her gentle mother's sake . 
It killed the cattle , in great numbers , too and so few working men remained alive , that there were not enough left to till the ground . 
After eight years of differing and quarrelling , the Prince of Wales again invaded France with an army of sixty thousand men . 
The French King , Philip , was now dead , and was succeeded by his son John . 
'God help us ! said the Black Prince , 'we must make the best of it . 
'Save my honour , said the Prince to this good priest , 'and save the honour of my army , and I will make any reasonable terms . 
Therefore , on the Monday morning , at break of day , the two armies prepared for battle . 
The English were posted in a strong place , which could only be approached by one narrow lane , skirted by hedges on both sides . 
The French attacked them by this lane but were so galled and slain by English arrows from behind the hedges , that they were forced to retreat . 
Then went six hundred English bowmen round about , and , coming upon the rear of the French army , rained arrows on them thick and fast . 
The French knights , thrown into confusion , quitted their banners and dispersed in all directions . 
Said Sir John Chandos to the Prince , 'Ride forward , noble Prince , and the day is yours . 
The King of France is so valiant a gentleman , that I know he will never fly , and may be taken prisoner . 
Said the Prince to this , 'Advance , English banners , in the name of God and St . 
As the King of Scotland had now been King Edward's captive for eleven years too , his success was , at this time , tolerably complete . 
The Scottish business was settled by the prisoner being released under the title of Sir David , King of Scotland , and by his engaging to pay a large ransom . 
There was a Sovereign of Castile at that time , called PEDRO THE CRUEL , who deserved the name remarkably well having committed , among other cruelties , a variety of murders . 
They appealed to the French King , CHARLES war again broke out and the French town of Limoges , which the Prince had greatly benefited , went over to the French King . 
The whole nation mourned for him as one of the most renowned and beloved princes it had ever had and he was buried with great lamentations in Canterbury Cathedral . 
King Edward did not outlive his renowned son , long . 
She little deserved his love , or what I dare say she valued a great deal more the jewels of the late Queen , which he gave her among other rich presents . 
She took the very ring from his finger on the morning of the day when he died , and left him to be pillaged by his faithless servants . 
Only one good priest was true to him , and attended him to the last . 
also dates from this period . 
The courtiers were usually glad to imitate what the King said or did , and hence from a slight incident the Order of the Garter was instituted , and became a great dignity . 
The whole English nation were ready to admire him for the sake of his brave father . 
a year clergymen were charged more , and only beggars were exempt . 
I have no need to repeat that the common people of England had long been suffering under great oppression . 
They were still the mere slaves of the lords of the land on which they lived , and were on most occasions harshly and unjustly treated . 
The people of Essex rose against the Poll tax , and being severely handled by the government officers , killed some of them . 
behaved in a savage way , and brutally insulted Wat Tyler's daughter . 
The daughter screamed , the mother screamed . 
Instantly the people of that town uprose as one man . 
It is said that they wanted to abolish all property , and to declare all men equal . 
I do not think this very likely because they stopped the travellers on the roads and made them swear to be true to King Richard and the people . 
Next day the whole mass marched on to London Bridge . 
In this manner they passed one very violent day , and then proclamation was made that the King would meet them at Mile end , and grant their requests . 
The rioters went to Mile end to the number of sixty thousand , and the King met them there , and to the King the rioters peaceably proposed four conditions . 
First , that neither they , nor their children , nor any coming after them , should be made slaves any more . 
Secondly , that the rent of land should be fixed at a certain price in money , instead of being paid in service . 
Thirdly , that they should have liberty to buy and sell in all markets and public places , like other free men . 
Fourthly , that they should be pardoned for past offences . 
Now , Wat Tyler himself wanted more than this . 
He wanted the entire abolition of the forest laws . 
So , Wat and his men still continued armed , and rode about the city . 
Next morning , the King with a small train of some sixty gentlemen among whom was WALWORTH the Mayor rode into Smithfield , and saw Wat and his people at a little distance . 
Says Wat to his men , 'There is the King . 
I will go speak with him , and tell him what we want . 
Straightway Wat rode up to him , and began to talk . 
'King , says Wat , 'dost thou see all my men there ? 'Ah , says the King . 
'Why ? 'Because , says Wat , 'they are all at my command , and have sworn to do whatever I bid them . 
Some declared afterwards that as Wat said this , he laid his hand on the King's bridle . 
Others declared that he was seen to play with his own dagger . 
I think , myself , that he just spoke to the King like a rough , angry man as he was , and did nothing more . 
He dropped from his horse , and one of the King's people speedily finished him . 
Fawners and flatterers made a mighty triumph of it , and set up a cry which will occasionally find an echo to this day . 
Seeing Wat down , his men immediately bent their bows to avenge his fall . 
If the young King had not had presence of mind at that dangerous moment , both he and the Mayor to boot , might have followed Tyler pretty fast . 
But the King riding up to the crowd , cried out that Tyler was a traitor , and that he would be their leader . 
They were so taken by surprise , that they set up a great shouting , and followed the boy until he was met at Islington by a large body of soldiers . 
The end of this rising was the then usual end . 
with great rigour , and executed with great cruelty . 
The King's falsehood in this business makes such a pitiful figure , that I think Wat Tyler appears in history as beyond comparison the truer and more respectable man of the two . 
Richard was now sixteen years of age , and married Anne of Bohemia , an excellent princess , who was called 'the good Queen Anne . 
She deserved a better husband for the King had been fawned and flattered into a treacherous , wasteful , dissolute , bad young man . 
, and their quarrels involved Europe in a great deal of trouble . 
The King said in reply , that he would not for such men dismiss the meanest servant in his kitchen . 
His uncle of Gloucester was at the head of this commission , and , in fact , appointed everybody composing it . 
The secret oozed out directly , and was carried to the Duke of Gloucester . 
feared and hated him , and replied , that if she valued her husband's crown , she had better beg no more . 
All this was done under what was called by some the wonderful and by others , with better reason , the merciless Parliament . 
But Gloucester's power was not to last for ever . 
He held it for only a year longer in which year the famous battle of Otterbourne , sung in the old ballad of Chevy Chase , was fought . 
He followed this up , by appointing a new Chancellor and a new Treasurer , and announced to the people that he had resumed the Government . 
He held it for eight years without opposition . 
Through all that time , he kept his determination to revenge himself some day upon his uncle Gloucester , in his own breast . 
, was a marvel of beauty and wit , and quite a phenomenon of seven years old . 
The council were divided about this marriage , but it took place . 
It secured peace between England and France for a quarter of a century but it was strongly opposed to the prejudices of the English people . 
While the King conversed in a friendly manner with the Duchess , the Duke was quietly seized , hurried away , shipped for Calais , and lodged in the castle there . 
His friends , the Earls of Arundel and Warwick , were taken in the same treacherous manner , and confined to their castles . 
A few days after , at Nottingham , they were impeached of high treason . 
The Earl of Arundel was condemned and beheaded , and the Earl of Warwick was banished . 
Then , a writ was sent by a messenger to the Governor of Calais , requiring him to send the Duke of Gloucester over to be tried . 
In three days he returned an answer that he could not do that , because the Duke of Gloucester had died in prison . 
How the unfortunate duke died , very few cared to know . 
There is not much doubt that he was killed , somehow or other , by his nephew's orders . 
They seem to have been a corrupt set of men but such men were easily found about the court in such days . 
The people murmured at all this , and were still very sore about the French marriage . 
The nobles saw how little the King cared for law , and how crafty he was , and began to be somewhat afraid for themselves . 
He had two of his old enemies left , in the persons of the Dukes of Hereford and Norfolk . 
For this treachery he obtained a pardon , and the Duke of Norfolk was summoned to appear and defend himself . 
This wager of battle meant that whosoever won the combat was to be considered in the right which nonsense meant in effect , that no strong man could ever be wrong . 
The Duke of Hereford was to be banished for ten years , and the Duke of Norfolk was to be banished for life . 
The Duke of Hereford went to France , and went no farther . 
The Duke of Norfolk made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land , and afterwards died at Venice of a broken heart . 
Faster and fiercer , after this , the King went on in his career . 
The judges were so afraid of him , that they disgraced themselves by declaring this theft to be just and lawful . 
His avarice knew no bounds . 
He outlawed seventeen counties at once , on a frivolous pretence , merely to raise money by way of fines for misconduct . 
to London and followed him . 
They joined their forces how they brought that about , is not distinctly understood and proceeded to Bristol Castle , whither three noblemen had taken the young Queen . 
The castle surrendering , they presently put those three noblemen to death . 
The Regent then remained there , and Henry went on to Chester . 
All this time , the boisterous weather had prevented the King from receiving intelligence of what had occurred . 
When the King did land on the coast at last , he came with a pretty good power , but his men cared nothing for him , and quickly deserted . 
Supposing the Welshmen to be still at Conway , he disguised himself as a priest , and made for that place in company with his two brothers and some few of their adherents . 
But , there were no Welshmen left only Salisbury and a hundred soldiers . 
In this distress , the King's two brothers , Exeter and Surrey , offered to go to Henry to learn what his intentions were . 
Surrey , who was true to Richard , was put into prison . 
Exeter , who was false , took the royal badge , which was a hart , off his shield , and assumed the rose , the badge of Henry . 
After this , it was pretty plain to the King what Henry's intentions were , without sending any more messengers to ask . 
By this earl he was conducted to the castle of Flint , where his cousin Henry met him , and dropped on his knee as if he were still respectful to his sovereign . 
'My lord , replied Henry , 'I am come a little before my time but , with your good pleasure , I will show you the reason . 
Your people complain with some bitterness , that you have ruled them rigorously for two and twenty years . 
Now , if it please God , I will help you to govern them better in future . 
'Fair cousin , replied the abject King , 'since it pleaseth you , it pleaseth me mightily . 
From Chester he was taken on towards London . 
Before he got there , it is related , that his very dog left him and departed from his side to lick the hand of Henry . 
The day before the Parliament met , a deputation went to this wrecked King , and told him that he had promised the Earl of Northumberland at Conway Castle to resign the crown . 
He said he was quite ready to do it , and signed a paper in which he renounced his authority and absolved his people from their allegiance to him . 
Next day , the Parliament assembled in Westminster Hall , where Henry sat at the side of the throne , which was empty and covered with a cloth of gold . 
The multitude shouted again , and the shouts re echoed throughout all the streets . 
a far more sorry spectacle in the Tower of London , than Wat Tyler had made , lying dead , among the hoofs of the royal horses in Smithfield . 
The Poll tax died with Wat . 
The Smiths to the King and Royal Family , could make no chains in which the King could hang the people's recollection of him so the Poll tax was never collected . 
Both suppositions are likely enough . 
It is no less certain that he first established in England the detestable and atrocious custom , brought from abroad , of burning those people as a punishment for their opinions . 
No real right to the crown , as you know , was in this King . 
The Parliament replied that they would recommend his being kept in some secret place where the people could not resort , and where his friends could not be admitted to see him . 
Henry accordingly passed this sentence upon him , and it now began to be pretty clear to the nation that Richard the Second would not live very long . 
They soon began to plot again . 
A conspiracy was formed to invite the King to a tournament at Oxford , and then to take him by surprise and kill him . 
This murderous enterprise , which was agreed upon at secret meetings in the house of the Abbot of Westminster , was betrayed by the Earl of Rutland one of the conspirators . 
, retired to London , proclaimed them all traitors , and advanced upon them with a great force . 
They retired into the west of England , proclaiming Richard King but , the people rose against them , and they were all slain . 
Their treason hastened the death of the deposed monarch . 
Whether he was killed by hired assassins , or whether he was starved to death , or whether he refused food on hearing of his brothers being killed , is very doubtful . 
He met his death somehow and his body was publicly shown at St . 
Paul's Cathedral with only the lower part of the face uncovered . 
I can scarcely doubt that he was killed by the King's orders . 
The French Dukes of Burgundy and Bourbon took up the poor girl's cause , without caring much about it , but on the chance of getting something out of England . 
Then , began negotiations between France and England for the sending home to Paris of the poor little Queen with all her jewels and her fortune of two hundred thousand francs in gold . 
The King was quite willing to restore the young lady , and even the jewels but he said he really could not part with the money . 
about the whole matter and those two dukes made France even more wretched than ever . 
As the idea of conquering Scotland was still popular at home , the King marched to the river Tyne and demanded homage of the King of that country . 
It is to his immortal honour that in this sally he burnt no villages and slaughtered no people , but was particularly careful that his army should be merciful and harmless . 
It was a great example in those ruthless times . 
Appealing for redress , and getting none , he took up arms , was made an outlaw , and declared himself sovereign of Wales . 
It is by no means clear that this was the real cause of the conspiracy but perhaps it was made the pretext . 
It was formed , and was very powerful including SCROOP , Archbishop of York , and the EARL OF DOUGLAS , a powerful and brave Scottish nobleman . 
The King was prompt and active , and the two armies met at Shrewsbury . 
There were about fourteen thousand men in each . 
The old Earl of Northumberland being sick , the rebel forces were led by his son . 
The King wore plain armour to deceive the enemy and four noblemen , with the same object , wore the royal arms . 
Hotspur was killed by an arrow in the brain , and the rout was so complete that the whole rebellion was struck down by this one blow . 
The Earl of Northumberland surrendered himself soon after hearing of the death of his son , and received a pardon for all his offences . 
There were some lingerings of rebellion yet Owen Glendower being retired to Wales , and a preposterous story being spread among the ignorant people that King Richard was still alive . 
This was not the worst . 
The young Earl of March and his brother were stolen out of Windsor Castle . 
This was the first time that a great churchman had been slain by the law in England but the King was resolved that it should be done , and done it was . 
The next most remarkable event of this time was the seizure , by Henry , of the heir to the Scottish throne James , a boy of nine years old . 
He remained a prisoner in England for nineteen years , and became in his prison a student and a famous poet . 
With the exception of occasional troubles with the Welsh and with the French , the rest of King Henry's reign was quiet enough . 
, that the Prince once took the crown out of his father's chamber as he was sleeping , and tried it on his own head . 
The King's health sank more and more , and he became subject to violent eruptions on the face and to bad epileptic fits , and his spirits sank every day . 
At last , as he was praying before the shrine of St . 
Edward at Westminster Abbey , he was seized with a terrible fit , and was carried into the Abbot's chamber , where he presently died . 
It had been foretold that he would die at Jerusalem , which certainly is not , and never was , Westminster . 
But , as the Abbot's room had long been called the Jerusalem chamber , people said it was all the same thing , and were quite satisfied with the prediction . 
The King died on the th of March , , in the forty seventh year of his age , and the fourteenth of his reign . 
He was buried in Canterbury Cathedral . 
He had been twice married , and had , by his first wife , a family of four sons and two daughters . 
CHAPTER XXI ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE FIFTH FIRST PART THE Prince of Wales began his reign like a generous and honest man . 
It is much easier to burn men than to burn their opinions and those of the Lollards were spreading every day . 
, and summoned the Lollards to meet him near London on a certain day . 
So the priests told the King , at least . 
I doubt whether there was any conspiracy beyond such as was got up by their agents . 
On the day appointed , instead of five and twenty thousand men , under the command of Sir John Oldcastle , in the meadows of St . 
Giles , the King found only eighty men , and no Sir John at all . 
Thirty of these unfortunate Lollards were hanged and drawn immediately , and were then burnt , gallows and all and the various prisons in and around London were crammed full of others . 
To finish the sad story of Sir John Oldcastle at once , I may mention that he escaped into Wales , and remained there safely , for four years . 
He was carried to London in a horse litter , was fastened by an iron chain to a gibbet , and so roasted to death . 
The widow of King Richard had been married in France to the eldest son of the Duke of Orleans . 
The poor mad King was quite powerless to help her , and the Duke of Burgundy became the real master of France . 
married the daughter of the Count of Armagnac , who , being a much abler man than his young son in law , headed his party thence called after him Armagnacs . 
that no enemy of France could injure her more than her own nobility . 
The present King now advanced a claim to the French throne . 
He was offered less territory and fewer crowns , and no princess but he called his ambassadors home and prepared for war . 
Then , he proposed to take the princess with one million of crowns . 
, and assembled his army at Southampton . 
It is dreadful to observe how long a bad example will be followed but , it is encouraging to know that a good example is never thrown away . 
It is agreed by French writers , to his lasting renown , that even while his soldiers were suffering the greatest distress from want of food , these commands were rigidly obeyed . 
All the rest of their possessions was divided amongst the English army . 
But , that army suffered so much , in spite of its successes , from disease and privation , that it was already reduced one half . 
Still , the King was determined not to retire until he had struck a greater blow . 
Therefore , against the advice of all his counsellors , he moved on with his little force towards Calais . 
At last the English found a crossing and got safely over . 
The French held a council of war at Rouen , resolved to give the English battle , and sent heralds to King Henry to know by which road he was going . 
'By the road that will take me straight to Calais ! said the King , and sent them away with a present of a hundred crowns . 
The English moved on , until they beheld the French , and then the King gave orders to form in line of battle . 
The French not coming on , the army broke up after remaining in battle array till night , and got good rest and refreshment at a neighbouring village . 
The French were now all lying in another village , through which they knew the English must pass . 
They were resolved that the English should begin the battle . 
The English had no means of retreat , if their King had any such intention and so the two armies passed the night , close together . 
in their whole enormous number which , compared with the English army , was at least as six to one . 
For these proud fools had said that the bow was not a fit weapon for knightly hands , and that France must be defended by gentlemen only . 
We shall see , presently , what hand the gentlemen made of it . 
But the King told him that , for his part , he did not wish for one more man . 
, on very difficult and heavy ground and he knew that when they moved , there must be confusion among them . 
The King warned those gentlemen himself to retire with all speed if they cared for their lives , and ordered the English banners to advance . 
Horses and men rolled over one another , and the confusion was terrific . 
Only three French horsemen got within the stakes , and those were instantly despatched . 
Presently , came up a band of eighteen French knights , bearing the banner of a certain French lord , who had sworn to kill or take the English King . 
The French Duke of Alen on , seeing this , made a desperate charge , and cut his way close up to the Royal Standard of England . 
He beat down the Duke of York , who was standing near it and , when the King came to his rescue , struck off a piece of the crown he wore . 
The death of this nobleman decided the battle . 
As soon , however , as it was found that the noise was only occasioned by a body of plundering peasants , the terrible massacre was stopped . 
Then King Henry called to him the French herald , and asked him to whom the victory belonged . 
The herald replied , 'To the King of England . 
'WE have not made this havoc and slaughter , said the King . 
'It is the wrath of Heaven on the sins of France . 
What is the name of that castle yonder ? The herald answered him , 'My lord , it is the castle of Azincourt . 
Said the King , 'From henceforth this battle shall be known to posterity , by the name of the battle of Azincourt . 
Our English historians have made it Agincourt but , under that name , it will ever be famous in English annals . 
The loss upon the French side was enormous . 
Three Dukes were killed , two more were taken prisoners , seven Counts were killed , three more were taken prisoners , and ten thousand knights and gentlemen were slain upon the field . 
The English loss amounted to sixteen hundred men , among whom were the Duke of York and the Earl of Suffolk . 
It is in such things , and in many more much too horrible to relate , that the real desolation and wickedness of war consist . 
Nothing can make war otherwise than horrible . 
So far from uniting against the common enemy , they became , among themselves , more violent , more bloody , and more false if that were possible than they had been before . 
The Count of Armagnac persuaded the French king to plunder of her treasures Queen Isabella of Bavaria , and to make her a prisoner . 
She , who had hitherto been the bitter enemy of the Duke of Burgundy , proposed to join him , in revenge . 
He carried her off to Troyes , where she proclaimed herself Regent of France , and made him her lieutenant . 
The former Dauphin was now dead , and the King's third son bore the title . 
Him , in the height of this murderous scene , a French knight hurried out of bed , wrapped in a sheet , and bore away to Poitiers . 
So , when the revengeful Isabella and the Duke of Burgundy entered Paris in triumph after the slaughter of their enemies , the Dauphin was proclaimed at Poitiers as the real Regent . 
On the appointed day , King Henry appeared there , with his two brothers , Clarence and Gloucester , and a thousand men . 
This was the most important circumstance that arose out of the meeting . 
So far the Dauphin kept his word , but no farther . 
It was in vain for the Dauphin to pretend that this base murder was not done with his consent it was too bad , even for France , and caused a general horror . 
The duke's heir hastened to make a treaty with King Henry , and the French Queen engaged that her husband should consent to it , whatever it was . 
He was soon married to the beautiful Princess , and took her proudly home to England , where she was crowned with great honour and glory . 
This peace was called the Perpetual Peace we shall soon see how long it lasted . 
There was some resistance on the part of the Dauphin in some few parts of France , but King Henry beat it all down . 
But , in the fulness of his triumph and the height of his power , Death came upon him , and his day was done . 
When he fell ill at Vincennes , and found that he could not recover , he was very calm and quiet , and spoke serenely to those who wept around his bed . 
His wife and child , he said , he left to the loving care of his brother the Duke of Bedford , and his other faithful nobles . 
Then , he laid down his head , and asked the attendant priests to chant the penitential psalms . 
At Calais there was a fleet of ships to bring the funeral host to Dover . 
As that duke declined the Regency of France , it was bestowed by the poor French King upon the Duke of Bedford . 
But , the French King dying within two months , the Dauphin instantly asserted his claim to the French throne , and was actually crowned under the title of CHARLES THE SEVENTH . 
The Duke of Bedford , to be a match for him , entered into a friendly league with the Dukes of Burgundy and Brittany , and gave them his two sisters in marriage . 
War with France was immediately renewed , and the Perpetual Peace came to an untimely end . 
In the first campaign , the English , aided by this alliance , were speedily successful . 
An English army of ten thousand men was despatched on this service , under the command of the Earl of Salisbury , a general of fame . 
the town of Orleans was so completely hemmed in , that the besieged proposed to yield it up to their countryman the Duke of Burgundy . 
The English general , however , replied that his English men had won it , so far , by their blood and valour , and that his English men must have it . 
The story of this peasant girl I have now to tell . 
PART THE SECOND THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC IN a remote village among some wild hills in the province of Lorraine , there lived a countryman whose name was JACQUES D'ARC . 
He had a daughter , JOAN OF ARC , who was at this time in her twentieth year . 
So , they easily believed that Joan saw strange sights , and they whispered among themselves that angels and spirits talked to her . 
, Saint Catherine and Saint Margaret had appeared to her with sparkling crowns upon their heads , and had encouraged her to be virtuous and resolute . 
There is no doubt , now , that Joan believed she saw and heard these things . 
It is very well known that such delusions are a disease which is not by any means uncommon . 
, and that they first gave Joan the idea of those three personages . 
She had long been a moping , fanciful girl , and , though she was a very good girl , I dare say she was a little vain , and wishful for notoriety . 
Her father , something wiser than his neighbours , said , 'I tell thee , Joan , it is thy fancy . 
The cruelties she saw committed , touched Joan's heart and made her worse . 
As she said the same things after she had been well sprinkled with holy water as she had said before the sprinkling , Baudricourt began to think there might be something in it . 
At all events , he thought it worth while to send her on to the town of Chinon , where the Dauphin was . 
So , he bought her a horse , and a sword , and gave her two squires to conduct her . 
As to her uncle the wheelwright , he stood staring at his niece in wonder until she was out of sight as well he might and then went home again . 
The best place , too . 
Joan and her two squires rode on and on , until they came to Chinon , where she was , after some doubt , admitted into the Dauphin's presence . 
Picking him out immediately from all his court , she told him that she came commanded by Heaven to subdue his enemies and conduct him to his coronation at Rheims . 
This wonderful circumstance put new heart into the Dauphin's soldiers when they heard of it , and dispirited the English army , who took Joan for a witch . 
So Joan mounted horse again , and again rode on and on , until she came to Orleans . 
But she rode now , as never peasant girl had ridden yet . 
In this splendid state , at the head of a great body of troops escorting provisions of all kinds for the starving inhabitants of Orleans , she appeared before that beleaguered city . 
, she mounted her white war horse again , and ordered her white banner to advance . 
The besiegers held the bridge , and some strong towers upon the bridge and here the Maid of Orleans attacked them . 
The fight was fourteen hours long . 
She planted a scaling ladder with her own hands , and mounted a tower wall , but was struck by an English arrow in the neck , and fell into the trench . 
After a while , she got up , and was again foremost in the fight . 
They lost the bridge , and lost the towers , and next day set their chain of forts on fire , and left the place . 
to proceed to Rheims , as the first part of her mission was accomplished and to complete the whole by being crowned there . 
However , they set forth , with ten thousand men , and again the Maid of Orleans rode on and on , upon her white war horse , and in her shining armour . 
The latter was particularly the case at Troyes , which finally yielded , however , through the persuasion of one Richard , a friar of the place . 
And in the great cathedral of Rheims , the Dauphin actually was crowned Charles the Seventh in a great assembly of the people . 
But the King said 'No ! and made her and her family as noble as a King could , and settled upon her the income of a Count . 
, and trying to improve the lives of the coarse soldiers , and leading a religious , an unselfish , and a modest life , herself , beyond any doubt . 
But , the King always won her back again while she was of any use to him and so she went on and on and on , to her doom . 
contradictory and confused , so that now they said one thing , and now said another , and the Maid lost credit every day . 
Charles marched on Paris , which was opposed to him , and attacked the suburb of Saint Honore . 
In this fight , being again struck down into the ditch , she was abandoned by the whole army . 
She lay unaided among a heap of dead , and crawled out how she could . 
Sixteen times she was brought out and shut up again , and worried , and entrapped , and argued with , until she was heart sick of the dreary business . 
It was natural in one so young to hold to life . 
To save her life , she signed a declaration prepared for her signed it with a cross , for she couldn't write that all her visions and Voices had come from the Devil . 
But , on the bread of sorrow and the water of affliction , the visions and the Voices soon returned . 
It was quite natural that they should do so , for that kind of disease is much aggravated by fasting , loneliness , and anxiety of mind . 
For this relapse into the sorcery and heresy and anything else you like , she was sentenced to be burnt to death . 
They threw her ashes into the river Seine but they will rise against her murderers on the last day . 
From the moment of her capture , neither the French King nor one single man in all his court raised a finger to save her . 
It is no defence of them that they may have never really believed in her , or that they may have won her victories by their skill and bravery . 
PART THE THIRD BAD deeds seldom prosper , happily for mankind and the English cause gained no advantage from the cruel death of Joan of Arc . 
For a long time , the war went heavily on . 
The Duke of Bedford died the alliance with the Duke of Burgundy was broken and Lord Talbot became a great general on the English side in France . 
But , two of the consequences of wars are , Famine because the people cannot peacefully cultivate the ground and Pestilence , which comes of want , misery , and suffering . 
Both these horrors broke out in both countries , and lasted for two wretched years . 
While these victories and defeats were taking place in the course of time , many strange things happened at home . 
The young King , as he grew up , proved to be very unlike his great father , and showed himself a miserable puny creature . 
Of these battledores , Cardinal Beaufort , a relation of the King , and the Duke of Gloucester , were at first the most powerful . 
, made a little waxen doll in the King's likeness , and put it before a slow fire that it might gradually melt away . 
It was supposed , in such cases , that the death of the person whom the doll was made to represent , was sure to happen . 
However , she was tried for it , and so was old Margery , and so was one of the duke's chaplains , who was charged with having assisted them . 
The duke , himself , took all this pretty quietly , and made as little stir about the matter as if he were rather glad to be rid of the duchess . 
But , he was not destined to keep himself out of trouble long . 
The royal shuttlecock being three and twenty , the battledores were very anxious to get him married . 
So , the marriage was arranged , on terms very advantageous to the lady and Lord Suffolk brought her to England , and she was married at Westminster . 
, and his body was shown to the people , and Lord Suffolk came in for the best part of his estates . 
You know by this time how strangely liable state prisoners were to sudden death . 
This was the time when England had completed her loss of all her great French conquests . 
to interpose to save him , by banishing him for five years , and proroguing the Parliament . 
The duke had much ado to escape from a London mob , two thousand strong , who lay in wait for him in St . 
Giles's fields but , he got down to his own estates in Suffolk , and sailed away from Ipswich . 
'Welcome , traitor , as men say , was the captain's grim and not very respectful salutation . 
He was kept on board , a prisoner , for eight and forty hours , and then a small boat appeared rowing toward the ship . 
As this boat came nearer , it was seen to have in it a block , a rusty sword , and an executioner in a black mask . 
The duke was handed down into it , and there his head was cut off with six strokes of the rusty sword . 
Then , the little boat rowed away to Dover beach , where the body was cast out , and left until the duchess claimed it . 
By whom , high in authority , this murder was committed , has never appeared . 
No one was ever punished for it . 
There now arose in Kent an Irishman , who gave himself the name of Mortimer , but whose real name was JACK CADE . 
They then retired to Sevenoaks . 
The royal army coming up with them here , they beat it and killed their general . 
Then , Jack dressed himself in the dead general's armour , and led his men to London . 
Jack passed into the City from Southwark , over the bridge , and entered it in triumph , giving the strictest orders to his men not to plunder . 
Having made a show of his forces there , while the citizens looked on quietly , he went back into Southwark in good order , and passed the night . 
Next day , he came back again , having got hold in the meantime of Lord Say , an unpopular nobleman . 
They also cut off the head of his son in law , and then went back in good order to Southwark again . 
But , although the citizens could bear the beheading of an unpopular lord , they could not bear to have their houses pillaged . 
Wherefore , the Londoners took counsel with Lord Scales , who had a thousand soldiers in the Tower and defended London Bridge , and kept Jack and his people out . 
So , after they had travelled and quarrelled all the way from Southwark to Blackheath , and from Blackheath to Rochester , he mounted a good horse and galloped away into Sussex . 
But , there galloped after him , on a better horse , one Alexander Iden , who came up with him , had a hard fight with him , and killed him . 
Jack's head was set aloft on London Bridge , with the face looking towards Blackheath , where he had raised his flag and Alexander Iden got the thousand marks . 
to have a better right to the throne than Henry of Lancaster , as one of the family of the Earl of March , whom Henry the Fourth had set aside . 
but for the unfortunate circumstance of the present King's being by this time quite an idiot , and the country very ill governed . 
These two circumstances gave the Duke of York a power he could not otherwise have had . 
At length the Duke of York put himself at the head of a large force of his tenants , and , in arms , demanded the reformation of the Government . 
Being shut out of London , he encamped at Dartford , and the royal army encamped at Blackheath . 
According as either side triumphed , the Duke of York was arrested , or the Duke of Somerset was arrested . 
The trouble ended , for the moment , in the Duke of York renewing his oath of allegiance , and going in peace to one of his own castles . 
Half a year afterwards the Queen gave birth to a son , who was very ill received by the people , and not believed to be the son of the King . 
At the same time the Duke of Somerset was committed to the Tower . 
So , now the Duke of Somerset was down , and the Duke of York was up . 
So now the Duke of York was down , and the Duke of Somerset was up . 
The Duke of York , joined by some other powerful noblemen of the White Rose party , and leading a small army , met the King with another small army at St . 
Alban's , and demanded that the Duke of Somerset should be given up . 
The poor King , being made to say in answer that he would sooner die , was instantly attacked . 
The Duke of Somerset was killed , and the King himself was wounded in the neck , and took refuge in the house of a poor tanner . 
Whereupon , the Duke of York went to him , led him with great submission to the Abbey , and said he was very sorry for what had happened . 
So , now the Duke of York was down again . 
Some of the best men in power , seeing the danger of these constant changes , tried even then to prevent the Red and the White Rose Wars . 
They brought about a great council in London between the two parties . 
The White Roses assembled in Blackfriars , the Red Roses in Whitefriars and some good priests communicated between them , and made the proceedings known at evening to the King and the judges . 
They ended in a peaceful agreement that there should be no more quarrelling and there was a great royal procession to St . 
Paul's , in which the Queen walked arm in arm with her old enemy , the Duke of York , to show the people how comfortable they all were . 
and some of the King's servants at Court , led to an attack upon that Earl who was a White Rose and to a sudden breaking out of all old animosities . 
So , here were greater ups and downs than ever . 
There were even greater ups and downs than these , soon after . 
Warwick would have been glad , I dare say , to have taken the Queen and Prince too , but they escaped into Wales and thence into Scotland . 
Then , back comes the Duke from Ireland at the head of five hundred horsemen , rides from London to Westminster , and enters the House of Lords . 
There , he laid his hand upon the cloth of gold which covered the empty throne , as if he had half a mind to sit down in it but he did not . 
It was agreed that the present King should retain the crown for his life , and that it should then pass to the Duke of York and his heirs . 
But , the resolute Queen , determined on asserting her son's right , would hear of no such thing . 
She came from Scotland to the north of England , where several powerful lords armed in her cause . 
He lodged at Sandal Castle , near Wakefield , and the Red Roses defied him to come out on Wakefield Green , and fight them then and there . 
His generals said , he had best wait until his gallant son , the Earl of March , came up with his power but , he was determined to accept the challenge . 
He did so , in an evil hour . 
He was hotly pressed on all sides , two thousand of his men lay dead on Wakefield Green , and he himself was taken prisoner . 
, and had it fixed , with a paper crown upon its head , on the walls of York . 
There was awful sacrifice of life in this battle , for no quarter was given , and the Queen was wild for revenge . 
When men unnaturally fight against their own countrymen , they are always observed to be more unnaturally cruel and filled with rage than they are against any other enemy . 
But , Lord Clifford had stabbed the second son of the Duke of York not the first . 
He had to turn and fight a great body of Welsh and Irish first , who worried his advance . 
The Queen had the next turn of beheading . 
Having moved towards London , and falling in , between St . 
Her triumph , however , was very short . 
She had no treasure , and her army subsisted by plunder . 
This caused them to be hated and dreaded by the people , and particularly by the London people , who were wealthy . 
The Queen and her men retreated with all speed , and Edward and Warwick came on , greeted with loud acclamations on every side . 
The courage , beauty , and virtues of young Edward could not be sufficiently praised by the whole people . 
He rode into London like a conqueror , and met with an enthusiastic welcome . 
A few days afterwards , Lord Falconbridge and the Bishop of Exeter assembled the citizens in St . 
Therefore , it was declared that by joining the Queen and not protecting those two prisoners of note , Henry of Lancaster had forfeited the crown and Edward of York was proclaimed King . 
CHAPTER XXIII ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE FOURTH KING EDWARD THE FOURTH was not quite twenty one years of age when he took that unquiet seat upon the throne of England . 
The Lancaster party , the Red Roses , were then assembling in great numbers near York , and it was necessary to give them battle instantly . 
Then , he went to London and was crowned with great splendour . 
Queen Margaret , however , was still active for her young son . 
She obtained help from Scotland and from Normandy , and took several important English castles . 
But , Warwick soon retook them the Queen lost all her treasure on board ship in a great storm and both she and her son suffered great misfortunes . 
The robber was surprised , but took the boy in his arms , and faithfully restored him and his mother to their friends . 
In the end , the Queen's soldiers being beaten and dispersed , she went abroad again , and kept quiet for the present . 
Now , all this time , the deposed King Henry was concealed by a Welsh knight , who kept him close in his castle . 
But , next year , the Lancaster party recovering their spirits , raised a large body of men , and called him out of his retirement , to put him at their head . 
Well ! Warwick's brother soon beat the Lancastrians , and the false noblemen , being taken , were beheaded without a moment's loss of time . 
However , the head to which the cap belonged , got safely into Lancashire , and lay pretty quietly there for more than a year . 
At length , an old monk gave such intelligence as led to Henry's being taken while he was sitting at dinner in a place called Waddington Hall . 
Then , he was carried off to the Tower , where they treated him well enough . 
The White Rose being so triumphant , the young King abandoned himself entirely to pleasure , and led a jovial life . 
But , thorns were springing up under his bed of roses , as he soon found out . 
regarded the promotion of the Woodville family . 
The Earl of Warwick took all this pretty graciously for a man of his proud temper , until the question arose to whom the King's sister , MARGARET , should be married . 
As they were joined by great numbers of people , and as they openly declared that they were supported by the Earl of Warwick , the King did not know what to do . 
They lasted about three months . 
The King was washing his hands before supper , when some one whispered him that a body of a hundred men were lying in ambush outside the house . 
Whether this were true or untrue , the King took fright , mounted his horse , and rode through the dark night to Windsor Castle . 
Another reconciliation was patched up between him and the King Maker , but it was a short one , and it was the last . 
A new rising took place in Lincolnshire , and the King marched to repress it . 
In these dangerous circumstances they both took ship and sailed away to the French court . 
She did more than that she married her son to his second daughter , the Lady Anne . 
This did not improve the temper of the Duke of Clarence , who saw himself farther off from being King than ever but he kept his secret , and said nothing . 
The Nevil family were restored to all their honours and glories , and the Woodvilles and the rest were disgraced . 
Him they caught hidden in a tree , and him they tried and executed . 
No other death stained the King Maker's triumph . 
Now was the time for the Duke of Clarence , who ordered his men to assume the White Rose , and declare for his brother . 
For this they had four reasons . 
After a stay of only two days with these worthy supporters , the King marched out to Barnet Common , to give the Earl of Warwick battle . 
And now it was to be seen , for the last time , whether the King or the King Maker was to carry the day . 
But , the Earl of Warwick disdainfully rejected them , and replied that Clarence was false and perjured , and that he would settle the quarrel by the sword . 
The loss of life was very great , for the hatred was strong on both sides . 
The King Maker was defeated , and the King triumphed . 
Both the Earl of Warwick and his brother were slain , and their bodies lay in St . 
Paul's , for some days , as a spectacle to the people . 
Margaret's spirit was not broken even by this great blow . 
The conduct of the King to this poor youth was worthy of his cruel character . 
He ordered him to be led into his tent . 
His mother survived him , a prisoner , for five years after her ransom by the King of France , she survived for six years more . 
Within three weeks of this murder , Henry died one of those convenient sudden deaths which were so common in the Tower in plainer words , he was murdered by the King's order . 
, the King thought of making war on France . 
What with grants from Parliament , and what with Benevolences , the King raised an army and passed over to Calais . 
As nobody wanted war , however , the French King made proposals of peace , which were accepted , and a truce was concluded for seven long years . 
The proceedings between the Kings of France and England on this occasion , were very friendly , very splendid , and very distrustful . 
It was time , now , that the Duke of Clarence should be punished for his treacheries and Fate had his punishment in store . 
This led to ill will and mistrust between them . 
Clarence's wife dying , and he wishing to make another marriage , which was obnoxious to the King , his ruin was hurried by that means , too . 
At first , the Court struck at his retainers and dependents , and accused some of them of magic and witchcraft , and similar nonsense . 
Successful against this small game , it then mounted to the Duke himself , who was impeached by his brother the King , in person , on a variety of such charges . 
He was found guilty , and sentenced to be publicly executed . 
It was supposed at the time that he was told to choose the manner of his death , and that he chose to be drowned in a butt of Malmsey wine . 
I hope the story may be true , for it would have been a becoming death for such a miserable creature . 
The King survived him some five years . 
He died in the forty second year of his life , and the twenty third of his reign . 
He had a very good capacity and some good points , but he was selfish , careless , sensual , and cruel . 
He was a favourite with the people for his showy manners and the people were a good example to him in the constancy of their attachment . 
He was penitent on his death bed for his 'benevolences , and other extortions , and ordered restitution to be made to the people who had suffered from them . 
CHAPTER XXIV ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE FIFTH THE late King's eldest son , the Prince of Wales , called EDWARD after him , was only thirteen years of age at his father's death . 
He was at Ludlow Castle with his uncle , the Earl of Rivers . 
The prince's brother , the Duke of York , only eleven years of age , was in London with his mother . 
The Duke of Gloucester did nothing , at first , to justify suspicion . 
to York , and was there the first to swear allegiance to his nephew . 
He then wrote a condoling letter to the Queen Mother , and set off to be present at the coronation in London . 
A few days afterwards they conducted him to London , and lodged him in the Bishop's Palace . 
So , to the Tower he was taken , very carefully , and the Duke of Gloucester was named Protector of the State . 
Being at last quite prepared , he one day appeared unexpectedly at the council in the Tower , and appeared to be very jocular and merry . 
'Then , said the Duke , 'I tell you that they are that sorceress my brother's wife meaning the Queen 'and that other sorceress , Jane Shore . 
Who , by witchcraft , have withered my body , and caused my arm to shrink as I now show you . 
Jane Shore , being then the lover of Lord Hastings , as she had formerly been of the late King , that lord knew that he himself was attacked . 
So , he said , in some confusion , 'Certainly , my Lord , if they have done this , they be worthy of punishment . 
The Queen , being obliged to comply , resigned the child after she had wept over him and Richard of Gloucester placed him with his brother in the Tower . 
Paul's Cathedral , through the most crowded part of the City . 
Having now all things ready for his own advancement , he caused a friar to preach a sermon at the cross which stood in front of St . 
The Duke of Gloucester returned , that since he used that strong language , it became his painful duty to think no more of himself , and to accept the Crown . 
CHAPTER XXV ENGLAND UNDER RICHARD THE THIRD KING RICHARD THE THIRD was up betimes in the morning , and went to Westminster Hall . 
The clergy and the crowd must have been rather ashamed of themselves in secret , I think , for being such poor spirited knaves . 
While he was on this journey , King Richard stayed a week at Warwick . 
Sir Robert Brackenbury was at that time Governor of the Tower . 
To him , by the hands of a messenger named JOHN GREEN , did King Richard send a letter , ordering him by some means to put the two young princes to death . 
On a certain day , therefore , in October , the revolt took place but unsuccessfully . 
The time of his success was a good time , Richard thought , for summoning a Parliament and getting some money . 
they should be safely and honourably entertained . 
They came , accordingly , but had scarcely been at Court a month when his son died suddenly or was poisoned and his plan was crushed to pieces . 
In this extremity , King Richard , always active , thought , 'I must make another plan . 
And he made the plan of marrying the Princess Elizabeth himself , although she was his niece . 
There was one difficulty in the way his wife , the Queen Anne , was alive . 
how to remove that obstacle , and he made love to the Princess Elizabeth , telling her he felt perfectly confident that the Queen would die in February . 
He was , by this time , dreaded and hated by all classes of his subjects . 
It was said too , that , being stricken by his conscience , he dreamed frightful dreams , and started up in the night time , wild with terror and remorse . 
Henry of Richmond landed with six thousand men at Milford Haven , and came on against King Richard , then encamped at Leicester with an army twice as great , through North Wales . 
But , he was as brave as he was wicked , and plunged into the thickest of the fight . 
At the same moment , his desperate glance caught Henry of Richmond among a little group of his knights . 
Riding hard at him , and crying 'Treason ! he killed his standard bearer , fiercely unhorsed another gentleman , and aimed a powerful stroke at Henry himself , to cut him down . 
He was very cold , crafty , and calculating , and would do almost anything for money . 
He possessed considerable ability , but his chief merit appears to have been that he was not cruel when there was nothing to be got by it . 
The new King had promised the nobles who had espoused his cause that he would marry the Princess Elizabeth . 
The young Earl of Warwick , Edward Plantagenet , son and heir of the late Duke of Clarence , had been kept a prisoner in the same old Yorkshire Castle with her . 
This boy , who was now fifteen , the new King placed in the Tower for safety . 
Then he came to London in great state , and gratified the people with a fine procession on which kind of show he often very much relied for keeping them in good humour . 
The sports and feasts which took place were followed by a terrible fever , called the Sweating Sickness of which great numbers of people died . 
As this reign was principally remarkable for two very curious impostures which have become famous in history , we will make those two stories its principal feature . 
There was a priest at Oxford of the name of Simons , who had for a pupil a handsome boy named Lambert Simnel , the son of a baker . 
was safely locked up in the Tower of London . 
Father Simons , you may be sure , was mighty busy at the coronation . 
Ten days afterwards , the Germans , and the Irish , and the priest , and the boy , and the Earl of Lincoln , all landed in Lancashire to invade England . 
It soon ended in the complete destruction of the Pretender's forces , one half of whom were killed among them , the Earl himself . 
The priest and the baker's boy were taken prisoners . 
The priest , after confessing the trick , was shut up in prison , where he afterwards died suddenly perhaps . 
The boy was taken into the King's kitchen and made a turnspit . 
He was afterwards raised to the station of one of the King's falconers and so ended this strange imposition . 
There seems reason to suspect that the Dowager Queen always a restless and busy woman had had some share in tutoring the baker's son . 
The King was very angry with her , whether or no . 
He seized upon her property , and shut her up in a convent at Bermondsey . 
And the big chieftain in Dublin began to look out for another coronation , and another young King to be carried home on his back . 
So , he invited him over to the French Court , and appointed him a body guard , and treated him in all respects as if he really were the Duke of York . 
Peace , however , being soon concluded between the two Kings , the pretended Duke was turned adrift , and wandered for protection to the Duchess of Burgundy . 
This was no other than Sir William Stanley , who had saved the King's life at the battle of Bosworth Field . 
Whatever he had done he admitted , like an honourable spirit and he lost his head for it , and the covetous King gained all his wealth . 
Accordingly he made a desperate sally , and landed , with only a few hundred men , on the coast of Deal . 
He wandered away to Scotland , and told his story at that Court . 
But , for all this bribing of the Scotch lords at the Scotch King's Court , he could not procure the Pretender to be delivered up to him . 
His faithful subjects , however , cared nothing for him , and hated his faithful troops who , being of different nations , quarrelled also among themselves . 
The Scottish King made a jest of his scruples but they and their whole force went back again without fighting a battle . 
The worst consequence of this attempt was , that a rising took place among the people of Cornwall , who considered themselves too heavily taxed to meet the charges of the expected war . 
They were defeated though the Cornish men fought with great bravery and the lord was beheaded , and the lawyer and the blacksmith were hanged , drawn , and quartered . 
did not conclude the treaty , until he had safely departed out of the Scottish dominions . 
But , the Irish people had had enough of counterfeit Earls of Warwick and Dukes of York , for one while and would give the White Rose no aid . 
To Whitsand Bay , in Cornwall , accordingly , came Perkin Warbeck and his wife and the lovely lady he shut up for safety in the Castle of St . 
Michael's Mount , and then marched into Devonshire at the head of three thousand Cornishmen . 
In the night , when the two armies lay opposite to each other , he mounted a swift horse and fled . 
When morning dawned , the poor confiding Cornish men , discovering that they had no leader , surrendered to the King's power . 
Some of them were hanged , and the rest were pardoned and went miserably home . 
Michael's Mount , to seize his wife . 
She was soon taken and brought as a captive before the King . 
From the Tower , he was taken to the Palace at Westminster , and there lodged like a gentleman , though closely watched . 
At last Perkin Warbeck ran away , and took refuge in another sanctuary near Richmond in Surrey . 
It is but too probable , when we consider the crafty character of Henry the Seventh , that these two were brought together for a cruel purpose . 
A plot was soon discovered between them and the keepers , to murder the Governor , get possession of the keys , and proclaim Perkin Warbeck as King Richard the Fourth . 
He was beheaded on Tower Hill , and Perkin Warbeck was hanged at Tyburn . 
Such was the end of the pretended Duke of York , whose shadowy history was made more shadowy and ever will be by the mystery and craft of the King . 
If he had turned his great natural advantages to a more honest account , he might have lived a happy and respected life , even in those days . 
But he died upon a gallows at Tyburn , leaving the Scottish lady , who had loved him so well , kindly protected at the Queen's Court . 
After some time she forgot her old loves and troubles , as many people do with Time's merciful assistance , and married a Welsh gentleman . 
Her second husband , SIR MATTHEW CRADOC , more honest and more happy than her first , lies beside her in a tomb in the old church of Swansea . 
The ill blood between France and England in this reign , arose out of the continued plotting of the Duchess of Burgundy , and disputes respecting the affairs of Brittany . 
The King feigned to be very patriotic , indignant , and warlike but he always contrived so as never to make war in reality , and always to make money . 
But it was subdued by the royal forces , under the command of the Earl of Surrey . 
Hung high or hung low , however , hanging is much the same to the person hung . 
The King's eldest daughter was provided for , and a long course of disturbance was considered to be set at rest , by her being married to the Scottish King . 
And now the Queen died . 
But he made a money bargain instead , and married neither . 
, now Earl of Suffolk . 
Some arrests and executions took place in consequence . 
This was his last enemy . 
It was in this reign that the great CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS , on behalf of Spain , discovered what was then called The New World . 
He was very successful in his voyage , and gained high reputation , both for himself and England . 
You will be able to judge , long before we come to the end of his life , whether he deserves the character . 
He was just eighteen years of age when he came to the throne . 
People said he was handsome then but I don't believe it . 
, and it is not easy to believe that so bad a character can ever have been veiled under a prepossessing appearance . 
He was anxious to make himself popular and the people , who had long disliked the late King , were very willing to believe that he deserved to be so . 
He was extremely fond of show and display , and so were they . 
Therefore there was great rejoicing when he married the Princess Catherine , and when they were both crowned . 
And the King fought at tournaments and always came off victorious for the courtiers took care of that and there was a general outcry that he was a wonderful man . 
to take some strong French ships , well defended with batteries of cannon . 
Instead of following up his advantage , the King , finding that he had had enough of real fighting , came home again . 
The Scottish King , though nearly related to Henry by marriage , had taken part against him in this war . 
The Earl of Surrey , as the English general , advanced to meet him when he came out of his own dominions and crossed the river Tweed . 
Along the plain below it , the English , when the hour of battle came , advanced . 
The Scottish army , which had been drawn up in five great bodies , then came steadily down in perfect silence . 
Ten thousand Scottish men lay dead that day on Flodden Field and among them , numbers of the nobility and gentry . 
But , whatever became of his belt , the English had his sword and dagger , and the ring from his finger , and his body too , covered with wounds . 
There is no doubt of it for it was seen and recognised by English gentlemen who had known the Scottish King well . 
When King Henry was making ready to renew the war in France , the French King was contemplating peace . 
That one was a pretty young girl named ANNE BOLEYN , niece of the Earl of Surrey , who had been made Duke of Norfolk , after the victory of Flodden Field . 
Anne Boleyn's is a name to be remembered , as you will presently find . 
In making interest with the King , the Duke of Suffolk had addressed his most powerful favourite and adviser , THOMAS WOLSEY a name very famous in history for its rise and downfall . 
On the accession of Henry the Eighth , he was promoted and taken into great favour . 
He was wonderfully fond of pomp and glitter , and so was the King . 
This kind of learning pleased the King too . 
Never had there been seen in England such state as my Lord Cardinal kept . 
His wealth was enormous equal , it was reckoned , to the riches of the Crown . 
His palaces were as splendid as the King's , and his retinue was eight hundred strong . 
He held his Court , dressed out from top to toe in flaming scarlet and his very shoes were golden , set with precious stones . 
Through the influence of this stately priest , a grand meeting was arranged to take place between the French and English Kings in France but on ground belonging to England . 
, that the world has had good cause to be sick of it , for ever . 
At any rate , he was beheaded , as I have said , for nothing . 
Neither did he keep his promise to Wolsey to make him Pope , though the King urged him . 
Two Popes died in pretty quick succession but the foreign priests were too much for the Cardinal , and kept him out of the post . 
This was a learned Doctor , named MARTIN LUTHER , who knew all about them , for he had been a priest , and even a monk , himself . 
Whoever bought an Indulgence of the Pope was supposed to buy himself off from the punishment of Heaven for his offences . 
Luther told the people that these Indulgences were worthless bits of paper , before God , and that Tetzel and his masters were a crew of impostors in selling them . 
even wrote a book about it , with which the Pope was so well pleased that he gave the King the title of Defender of the Faith . 
The King and the Cardinal also issued flaming warnings to the people not to read Luther's books , on pain of excommunication . 
But they did read them for all that and the rumour of what was in them spread far and wide . 
When this great change was thus going on , the King began to show himself in his truest and worst colours . 
, to try the whole case in England . 
It is supposed and I think with reason that Wolsey was the Queen's enemy , because she had reproved him for his proud and gorgeous manner of life . 
With that , she got up and left the court , and would never afterwards come back to it . 
Lord Rochfort , not at all reluctant , made the learned Doctor as comfortable as he could and the learned Doctor went to work to prove his case . 
very worthy of the fate which afterwards befel her . 
It was bad for Cardinal Wolsey that he had left Cranmer to render this help . 
It was worse for him that he had tried to dissuade the King from marrying Anne Boleyn . 
The Cardinal refusing , they rode off to the King and next day came back with a letter from him , on reading which , the Cardinal submitted . 
, and he went sorrowfully up the river , in his barge , to Putney . 
And indeed , even in his proud days , he had done some magnificent things for learning and education . 
At last , he was arrested for high treason and , coming slowly on his journey towards London , got as far as Leicester . 
He had indeed for he was taken to a bed , from which he never rose again . 
His last words were , 'Had I but served God as diligently as I have served the King , He would not have given me over , in my grey hairs . 
Howbeit , this is my just reward for my pains and diligence , not regarding my service to God , but only my duty to my prince . 
In this state of mind he still evaded and did nothing . 
This , the King by various artful means , began to do but he recompensed the clergy by allowing them to burn as many people as they pleased , for holding Luther's opinions . 
You must understand that Sir Thomas More , the wise man who had helped the King with his book , had been made Chancellor in Wolsey's place . 
But , as he was truly attached to the Church as it was even in its abuses , he , in this state of things , resigned . 
She obeyed but replied that wherever she went , she was Queen of England still , and would remain so , to the last . 
The King then married Anne Boleyn privately and the new Archbishop of Canterbury , within half a year , declared his marriage with Queen Catherine void , and crowned Anne Boleyn Queen . 
But , Anne Boleyn arrived at all this knowledge too late , and bought it at a dear price . 
Her bad marriage with a worse man came to its natural end . 
Its natural end was not , as we shall too soon see , a natural death for her . 
CHAPTER XXVIII ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE EIGHTH PART THE SECOND THE Pope was thrown into a very angry state of mind when he heard of the King's marriage , and fumed exceedingly . 
But , these were speedily followed by two much greater victims , Sir Thomas More , and John Fisher , the Bishop of Rochester . 
, but that the Pope , to spite the King , resolved to make him a cardinal . 
He died like a noble and virtuous old man , and left a worthy name behind him . 
For this crime he too was tried and sentenced , after having been in prison a whole year . 
He soon recovered , and never more showed any feeling but cheerfulness and courage . 
Then his head was struck off at a blow . 
These two executions were worthy of King Henry the Eighth . 
Sir Thomas More was one of the most virtuous men in his dominions , and the Bishop was one of his oldest and truest friends . 
But to be a friend of that fellow was almost as dangerous as to be his wife . 
The King took all possible precautions to keep that document out of his dominions , and set to work in return to suppress a great number of the English monasteries and abbeys . 
was the head and was carried on through some few years to its entire completion . 
There is no doubt that many of these religious establishments were religious in nothing but in name , and were crammed with lazy , indolent , and sensual monks . 
The gold and jewels on his shrine filled two great chests , and eight men tottered as they carried them away . 
These things were not done without causing great discontent among the people . 
I have told all this story of the religious houses at one time , to make it plainer , and to get back to the King's domestic affairs . 
The unfortunate Queen Catherine was by this time dead and the King was by this time as tired of his second Queen as he had been of his first . 
As he had fallen in love with Anne when she was in the service of Catherine , so he now fell in love with another lady in the service of Anne . 
There was then only the Queen to dispose of . 
She had been surrounded in the Tower with women spies had been monstrously persecuted and foully slandered and had received no justice . 
, and would soon be out of her pain . 
He was bad enough to do it but whether he did it or not , it is certain that he married Jane Seymour the very next day . 
, was left in poverty while the great families clutched the Church lands and money . 
The people had been told that when the Crown came into possession of these funds , it would not be necessary to tax them but they were taxed afresh directly afterwards . 
, and fought for the Church with his pen , day and night . 
His being made a high priest , however , put an end to all that . 
His mother , the venerable Countess of Salisbury who was , unfortunately for herself , within the tyrant's reach was the last of his relatives on whom his wrath fell . 
All this the people bore , as they had borne everything else . 
Indeed they bore much more for the slow fires of Smithfield were continually burning , and people were constantly being roasted to death still to show what a good Christian the King was . 
There was a wretched man named LAMBERT , among others , who was tried for this before the King , and with whom six bishops argued one after another . 
, he threw himself on the King's mercy but the King blustered out that he had no mercy for heretics . 
So , HE too fed the fire . 
All this the people bore , and more than all this yet . 
The national spirit seems to have been banished from the kingdom at this time . 
Cranmer would have modified it , if he could but , being overborne by the Romish party , had not the power . 
This whip of six strings was made under the King's own eye . 
It should never be forgotten of him how cruelly he supported the worst of the Popish doctrines when there was nothing to be got by opposing them . 
This amiable monarch now thought of taking another wife . 
The King said was she a large woman , because he must have a fat wife ? 'O yes , said Cromwell 'she was very large , just the thing . 
On hearing this the King sent over his famous painter , Hans Holbein , to take her portrait . 
Hans made her out to be so good looking that the King was satisfied , and the marriage was arranged . 
Being obliged to do it now matters had gone so far , he would not give her the presents he had prepared , and would never notice her . 
He never forgave Cromwell his part in the affair . 
His downfall dates from that time . 
It is probable that on his wedding day , of all days in the year , he sent his faithful Cromwell to the scaffold , and had his head struck off . 
Still the people bore it , and not a gentleman in England raised his hand . 
As an appropriate pursuit under the circumstances , Henry then applied himself to superintending the composition of a religious book called 'A necessary doctrine for any Christian Man . 
This Cranmer did to the confusion of his enemies . 
I suppose the King thought he might want him a little longer . 
He married yet once more . 
Yes , strange to say , he found in England another woman who would become his wife , and she was CATHERINE PARR , widow of Lord Latimer . 
She leaned towards the reformed religion and it is some comfort to know , that she tormented the King considerably by arguing a variety of doctrinal points with him on all possible occasions . 
She had very nearly done this to her own destruction . 
A few more horrors , and this reign is over . 
There was a lady , ANNE ASKEW , in Lincolnshire , who inclined to the Protestant opinions , and whose husband being a fierce Catholic , turned her out of his house . 
She was burned with three others , a gentleman , a clergyman , and a tailor and so the world went on . 
The son was tried first of course for nothing and defended himself bravely but of course he was found guilty , and of course he was executed . 
Then his father was laid hold of , and left for death too . 
But the King himself was left for death by a Greater King , and the earth was to be rid of him at last . 
He was now a swollen , hideous spectacle , with a great hole in his leg , and so odious to every sense that it was dreadful to approach him . 
When he was found to be dying , Cranmer was sent for from his palace at Croydon , and came with all speed , but found him speechless . 
Happily , in that hour he perished . 
He was in the fifty sixth year of his age , and the thirty eighth of his reign . 
Henry the Eighth has been favoured by some Protestant writers , because the Reformation was achieved in his time . 
The plain truth is , that he was a most intolerable ruffian , a disgrace to human nature , and a blot of blood and grease upon the History of England . 
, and another council of twelve to help them . 
There was a curious part of the late King's will , requiring his executors to fulfil whatever promises he had made . 
Some of the court wondering what these might be , the Earl of Hertford and the other noblemen interested , said that they were promises to advance and enrich THEM . 
To be more dutiful still , they made themselves rich out of the Church lands , and were very comfortable . 
The new Duke of Somerset caused himself to be declared PROTECTOR of the kingdom , and was , indeed , the King . 
As young Edward the Sixth had been brought up in the principles of the Protestant religion , everybody knew that they would be maintained . 
But Cranmer , to whom they were chiefly entrusted , advanced them steadily and temperately . 
Many superstitious and ridiculous practices were stopped but practices which were harmless were not interfered with . 
However , the Protector invaded Scotland and ARRAN , the Scottish Regent , with an army twice as large as his , advanced to meet him . 
It was a dreadful battle , for the fugitives were slain without mercy . 
The ground for four miles , all the way to Edinburgh , was strewn with dead men , and with arms , and legs , and heads . 
They were much better clothed than the Scotch at the poverty of whose appearance and country they were exceedingly astonished . 
, that any man who lived idly and loitered about for three days together , should be burned with a hot iron , made a slave , and wear an iron fetter . 
But this savage absurdity soon came to an end , and went the way of a great many other foolish laws . 
The Protector was now so proud that he sat in Parliament before all the nobles , on the right hand of the throne . 
He had married Catherine Parr , the late King's widow , who was now dead and , to strengthen his power , he secretly supplied the young King with money . 
He may even have engaged with some of his brother's enemies in a plot to carry the boy off . 
He was executed on Tower Hill , and died denying his treason . 
These letters are supposed to have urged them against his brother , and to revenge his death . 
What they truly contained is not known but there is no doubt that he had , at one time , obtained great influence over the Princess Elizabeth . 
All this while , the Protestant religion was making progress . 
For Cranmer was a very moderate man , and even restrained the Protestant clergy from violently abusing the unreformed religion as they very often did , and which was not a good example . 
But the people were at this time in great distress . 
The rapacious nobility who had come into possession of the Church lands , were very bad landlords . 
They enclosed great quantities of ground for the feeding of sheep , which was then more profitable than the growing of crops and this increased the general distress . 
The most powerful risings were in Devonshire and Norfolk . 
In Devonshire , the rebellion was so strong that ten thousand men united within a few days , and even laid siege to Exeter . 
What with hanging and killing by the sword , four thousand of the rebels are supposed to have fallen in that one county . 
, the popular leader was a man named ROBERT KET , a tanner of Wymondham . 
A few were hanged , drawn , and quartered , as traitors , and their limbs were sent into various country places to be a terror to the people . 
Nine of them were hanged upon nine green branches of the Oak of Reformation and so , for the time , that tree may be said to have withered away . 
The Protector , though a haughty man , had compassion for the real distresses of the common people , and a sincere desire to help them . 
After being sentenced by the Council to the forfeiture of all his offices and lands , he was liberated and pardoned , on making a very humble submission . 
He was even taken back into the Council again , after having suffered this fall , and married his daughter , LADY ANNE SEYMOUR , to Warwick's eldest son . 
But such a reconciliation was little likely to last , and did not outlive a year . 
All this the fallen Protector positively denied except that he confessed to having spoken of the murder of those three noblemen , but having never designed it . 
They again thought that the Duke was saved by his bringing a reprieve , and again shouted for joy . 
But the Duke himself told them they were mistaken , and laid down his head and had it struck off at a blow . 
Many of the bystanders rushed forward and steeped their handkerchiefs in his blood , as a mark of their affection . 
He had , indeed , been capable of many good acts , and one of them was discovered after he was no more . 
The Bishop lost his office , and was deprived of his possessions . 
It is pleasanter to know that not a single Roman Catholic was burnt in this reign for holding that religion though two wretched victims suffered for heresy . 
One , a woman named JOAN BOCHER , for professing some opinions that even she could only explain in unintelligible jargon . 
The other , a Dutchman , named VON PARIS , who practised as a surgeon in London . 
, that the guilt was not his , but that of the man who so strongly urged the dreadful act . 
We shall see , too soon , whether the time ever came when Cranmer is likely to have remembered this with sorrow and remorse . 
were the most powerful of the clergy of this reign . 
So , he worked upon the King's fears , and persuaded him to set aside both the Princess Mary and the Princess Elizabeth , and assert his right to appoint his successor . 
This King died in the sixteenth year of his age , and in the seventh of his reign . 
It is difficult to judge what the character of one so young might afterwards have become among so many bad , ambitious , quarrelling nobles . 
CHAPTER XXX ENGLAND UNDER MARY THE Duke of Northumberland was very anxious to keep the young King's death a secret , in order that he might get the two Princesses into his power . 
The Earl of Arundel was her friend , and it was he who sent her warning of what had happened . 
Then , they made it known to the people , and set off to inform Lady Jane Grey that she was to be Queen . 
She was a pretty girl of only sixteen , and was amiable , learned , and clever . 
When the lords who came to her , fell on their knees before her , and told her what tidings they brought , she was so astonished that she fainted . 
But the people were not at all favourable to Lady Jane , considering that the right to be Queen was Mary's , and greatly disliking the Duke of Northumberland . 
Some powerful men among the nobility declared on Mary's side . 
They raised troops to support her cause , had her proclaimed Queen at Norwich , and gathered around her at the castle of Framlingham , which belonged to the Duke of Norfolk . 
And his fears for himself turned out to be well founded . 
The Lord Mayor and aldermen , thus enlightened , said there could be no doubt that the Princess Mary ought to be Queen . 
So , she was proclaimed at the Cross by St . 
Mary then came on towards London and at Wanstead in Essex , was joined by her half sister , the Princess Elizabeth . 
They passed through the streets of London to the Tower , and there the new Queen met some eminent prisoners then confined in it , kissed them , and gave them their liberty . 
Among these was that Gardiner , Bishop of Winchester , who had been imprisoned in the last reign for holding to the unreformed religion . 
Him she soon made chancellor . 
The Duke of Northumberland had been taken prisoner , and , together with his son and five others , was quickly brought before the Council . 
when he himself lay low . 
There seems reason to suppose that he expected a pardon even then , in return for this confession but it matters little whether he did or not . 
His head was struck off . 
Mary was now crowned Queen . 
She was thirty seven years of age , short and thin , wrinkled in the face , and very unhealthy . 
But she had a great liking for show and for bright colours , and all the ladies of her Court were magnificently dressed . 
I hope they did her good . 
They even cast a shower of stones and among them a dagger at one of the royal chaplains who attacked the Reformed religion in a public sermon . 
But the Queen and her priests went steadily on . 
Ridley , the powerful bishop of the last reign , was seized and sent to the Tower . 
LATIMER , also celebrated among the Clergy of the last reign , was likewise sent to the Tower , and Cranmer speedily followed . 
Latimer was an aged man and , as his guards took him through Smithfield , he looked round it , and said , 'This is a place that hath long groaned for me . 
For he knew well , what kind of bonfires would soon be burning . 
Nor was the knowledge confined to him . 
They began their proceedings , in violation of the law , by having the old mass said before them in Latin , and by turning out a bishop who would not kneel down . 
They also declared guilty of treason , Lady Jane Grey for aspiring to the Crown her husband , for being her husband and Cranmer , for not believing in the mass aforesaid . 
They then prayed the Queen graciously to choose a husband for herself , as soon as might be . 
Now , the question who should be the Queen's husband had given rise to a great deal of discussion , and to several contending parties . 
Some said Cardinal Pole was the man but the Queen was of opinion that he was NOT the man , he being too old and too much of a student . 
These discontents gave rise to a conspiracy for marrying young Courtenay to the Princess Elizabeth , and setting them up , with popular tumults all over the kingdom , against the Queen . 
This was discovered in time by Gardiner but in Kent , the old bold county , the people rose in their old bold way . 
SIR THOMAS WYAT , a man of great daring , was their leader . 
The London men , however , were all for Elizabeth , and not at all for Mary . 
They declared , under the castle walls , for Wyat the Duke retreated and Wyat came on to Deptford , at the head of fifteen thousand men . 
But these , in their turn , fell away . 
When he came to Southwark , there were only two thousand left . 
He found the bridge broken down , but mended it , came across , and bravely fought his way up Fleet Street to Ludgate Hill . 
Finding the gate closed against him , he fought his way back again , sword in hand , to Temple Bar . 
Here , being overpowered , he surrendered himself , and three or four hundred of his men were taken , besides a hundred killed . 
was afterwards made to accuse the Princess Elizabeth as his accomplice to some very small extent . 
But his manhood soon returned to him , and he refused to save his life by making any more false confessions . 
He was quartered and distributed in the usual brutal way , and from fifty to a hundred of his followers were hanged . 
She disdained to retreat to any place of safety , and went down to the Guildhall , sceptre in hand , and made a gallant speech to the Lord Mayor and citizens . 
But on the day after Wyat's defeat , she did the most cruel act , even of her cruel reign , in signing the warrant for the execution of Lady Jane Grey . 
They tried to persuade Lady Jane to accept the unreformed religion but she steadily refused . 
She came up to the scaffold with a firm step and a quiet face , and addressed the bystanders in a steady voice . 
But it never struck so cruel and so vile a blow as this . 
The father of Lady Jane soon followed , but was little pitied . 
Queen Mary's next object was to lay hold of Elizabeth , and this was pursued with great eagerness . 
Five hundred men were sent to her retired house at Ashridge , by Berkhampstead , with orders to bring her up , alive or dead . 
They got there at ten at night , when she was sick in bed . 
But , their leaders followed her lady into her bedchamber , whence she was brought out betimes next morning , and put into a litter to be conveyed to London . 
They took her in by the Traitor's Gate , to which she objected , but in vain . 
They besought her to come in out of the wet but she answered that it was better sitting there , than in a worse place . 
He failed , however , in his benevolent design . 
Elizabeth was , at length , released and Hatfield House was assigned to her as a residence , under the care of one SIR THOMAS POPE . 
It would seem that Philip , the Prince of Spain , was a main cause of this change in Elizabeth's fortunes . 
It may have been mere prudence , but we will hope it was manhood and honour . 
The Queen had been expecting her husband with great impatience , and at length he came , to her great joy , though he never cared much for her . 
A new Parliament was packed , in which there were no Protestants . 
Then a great scene was enacted , which was the triumph of the Queen's plans . 
Cardinal Pole arrived in great splendour and dignity , and was received with great pomp . 
The Parliament joined in a petition expressive of their sorrow at the change in the national religion , and praying him to receive the country again into the Popish Church . 
The Cardinal then made a great speech , and was so obliging as to say that all was forgotten and forgiven , and that the kingdom was solemnly made Roman Catholic again . 
Everything was now ready for the lighting of the terrible bonfires . 
Here , two of the late Protestant clergymen , HOOPER , Bishop of Gloucester , and ROGERS , a Prebendary of St . 
Paul's , were brought to be tried . 
Hooper was tried first for being married , though a priest , and for not believing in the mass . 
He admitted both of these accusations , and said that the mass was a wicked imposition . 
Then they tried Rogers , who said the same . 
To this the inhuman Gardiner replied , that she was not his wife . 
'Yea , but she is , my lord , said Rogers , 'and she hath been my wife these eighteen years . 
But , the people stood at their doors with candles in their hands , and prayed for them as they went by . 
And so he was burnt to death . 
His guards took him to a lodging , where he slept soundly all night . 
At nine o'clock next morning , he was brought forth leaning on a staff for he had taken cold in prison , and was infirm . 
His prayers concluded , he went up to the stake and was stripped to his shirt , and chained ready for the fire . 
One of his guards had such compassion on him that , to shorten his agonies , he tied some packets of gunpowder about him . 
Then they heaped up wood and straw and reeds , and set them all alight . 
But , unhappily , the wood was green and damp , and there was a wind blowing that blew what flame there was , away . 
Cranmer , Ridley , and Latimer , were taken to Oxford to dispute with a commission of priests and doctors about the mass . 
They were shamefully treated and it is recorded that the Oxford scholars hissed and howled and groaned , and misconducted themselves in an anything but a scholarly way . 
The prisoners were taken back to jail , and afterwards tried in St . 
They were all found guilty . 
On the sixteenth of the month of October , Ridley and Latimer were brought out , to make another of the dreadful bonfires . 
The scene of the suffering of these two good Protestant men was in the City ditch , near Baliol College . 
On coming to the dreadful spot , they kissed the stakes , and then embraced each other . 
When you think of the charity of burning men alive , you may imagine that this learned doctor had a rather brazen face . 
Ridley would have answered his sermon when it came to an end , but was not allowed . 
Ridley's brother in law was there with bags of gunpowder and when they were both chained up , he tied them round their bodies . 
Then , a light was thrown upon the pile to fire it . 
Five days after this fearful scene , Gardiner went to his tremendous account before God , for the cruelties he had so much assisted in committing . 
Cranmer remained still alive and in prison . 
As Cranmer was known not to be a firm man , a plan was laid for surrounding him with artful people , and inducing him to recant to the unreformed religion . 
But when , after all , he was taken out to be burnt , he was nobly true to his better self , and made a glorious end . 
After prayers and a sermon , Dr . 
, required him to make a public confession of his faith before the people . 
This , Cole did , expecting that he would declare himself a Roman Catholic . 
'I will make a profession of my faith , said Cranmer , 'and with a good will too . 
Then , he arose before them all , and took from the sleeve of his robe a written prayer and read it aloud . 
As for the Pope , he did refuse him and denounce him as the enemy of Heaven . 
Cole cried out to the guards to stop that heretic's mouth and take him away . 
So they took him away , and chained him to the stake , where he hastily took off his own clothes to make ready for the flames . 
And he stood before the people with a bald head and a white and flowing beard . 
His heart was found entire among his ashes , and he left at last a memorable name in English history . 
Cardinal Pole celebrated the day by saying his first mass , and next day he was made Archbishop of Canterbury in Cranmer's place . 
Hence , war was declared , greatly to Philip's satisfaction and the Queen raised a sum of money with which to carry it on , by every unjustifiable means in her power . 
It met with no profitable return , for the French Duke of Guise surprised Calais , and the English sustained a complete defeat . 
The losses they met with in France greatly mortified the national pride , and the Queen never recovered the blow . 
There was a bad fever raging in England at this time , and I am glad to write that the Queen took it , and the hour of her death came . 
'When I am dead and my body is opened , she said to those around those around her , 'ye shall find CALAIS written on my heart . 
But it is enough that their deaths were written in Heaven . 
Cardinal Pole died of the same fever next day . 
As BLOODY QUEEN MARY , this woman has become famous , and as BLOODY QUEEN MARY , she will ever be justly remembered with horror and detestation in Great Britain . 
The stake and the fire were the fruits of this reign , and you will judge this Queen by nothing else . 
Weary of the barbarities of Mary's reign , the people looked with hope and gladness to the new Sovereign . 
Queen Elizabeth was five and twenty years of age when she rode through the streets of London , from the Tower to Westminster Abbey , to be crowned . 
Her countenance was strongly marked , but on the whole , commanding and dignified her hair was red , and her nose something too long and sharp for a woman's . 
She was not the beautiful creature her courtiers made out but she was well enough , and no doubt looked all the better for coming after the dark and gloomy Mary . 
She was well educated , but a roundabout writer , and rather a hard swearer and coarse talker . 
She was clever , but cunning and deceitful , and inherited much of her father's violent temper . 
She began her reign with the great advantage of having a very wise and careful Minister , SIR WILLIAM CECIL , whom she afterwards made LORD BURLEIGH . 
Altogether , the people had greater reason for rejoicing than they usually had , when there were processions in the streets and they were happy with some reason . 
Accordingly , a Church Service in plain English was settled , and other laws and regulations were made , completely establishing the great work of the Reformation . 
The Romish bishops and champions were not harshly dealt with , all things considered and the Queen's Ministers were both prudent and merciful . 
The one great trouble of this reign , and the unfortunate cause of the greater part of such turmoil and bloodshed as occurred in it , was MARY STUART , QUEEN OF SCOTS . 
She was the daughter of the Queen Regent of Scotland , MARY OF GUISE . 
She had been married , when a mere child , to the Dauphin , the son and heir of the King of France . 
And when her young husband , on the death of his father , became FRANCIS THE SECOND , King of France , the matter grew very serious . 
For , the young couple styled themselves King and Queen of England , and the Pope was disposed to help them by doing all the mischief he could . 
Now , the reformed religion , under the guidance of a stern and powerful preacher , named JOHN KNOX , and other such men , had been making fierce progress in Scotland . 
All these proceedings led to a treaty of peace at Edinburgh , under which the French consented to depart from the kingdom . 
By a separate treaty , Mary and her young husband engaged to renounce their assumed title of King and Queen of England . 
But this treaty they never fulfilled . 
It happened , soon after matters had got to this state , that the young French King died , leaving Mary a young widow . 
Elizabeth had been Queen three years , when Mary Queen of Scots embarked at Calais for her own rough , quarrelling country . 
When she went to bed , she directed to be called at daybreak , if the French coast were still visible , that she might behold it for the last time . 
Indeed , I am afraid it gradually came , together with her other distresses , to surround her with greater sympathy than she deserved . 
John Knox himself often lectured her , violently and angrily , and did much to make her life unhappy . 
That Elizabeth , on the other hand , was not inclined to like her , is pretty certain . 
Elizabeth was very vain and jealous , and had an extraordinary dislike to people being married . 
Not that Elizabeth wanted suitors of her own , for they started up from Spain , Austria , Sweden , and England . 
Upon this story , the great writer , SIR WALTER SCOTT , has founded one of his best romances . 
The Queen always declared in good set speeches , that she would never be married at all , but would live and die a Maiden Queen . 
It was a very pleasant and meritorious declaration , I suppose but it has been puffed and trumpeted so much , that I am rather tired of it myself . 
However , he gained Mary's heart , not disdaining in the pursuit of his object to ally himself with one of her secretaries , DAVID RIZZIO , who had great influence with her . 
He soon married the Queen . 
This marriage does not say much for her , but what followed will presently say less . 
Driven out of Scotland , they presented themselves before Elizabeth who called them traitors in public , and assisted them in private , according to her crafty nature . 
He hated Rizzio to that extent , that he made a compact with LORD RUTHVEN and three other lords to get rid of him by murder . 
Rizzio ran behind the Queen for shelter and protection . 
'Let him come out of the room , said Ruthven . 
'He shall not leave the room , replied the Queen 'I read his danger in your face , and it is my will that he remain here . 
They then set upon him , struggled with him , overturned the table , dragged him out , and killed him with fifty six stabs . 
When the Queen heard that he was dead , she said , 'No more tears . 
With their help , they raised eight thousand men returned to Edinburgh , and drove the assassins into England . 
Mary soon afterwards gave birth to a son still thinking of revenge . 
That she should have had a greater scorn for her husband after his late cowardice and treachery than she had had before , was natural enough . 
There is little doubt that she now began to love Bothwell instead , and to plan with him means of getting rid of Darnley . 
Bothwell had such power over her that he induced her even to pardon the assassins of Rizzio . 
Here , he lived for about a week . 
At two o'clock in the morning the city was shaken by a great explosion , and the Kirk of Field was blown to atoms . 
Darnley's body was found next day lying under a tree at some distance . 
How it came there , undisfigured and unscorched by gunpowder , and how this crime came to be so clumsily and strangely committed , it is impossible to discover . 
The deceitful character of Mary , and the deceitful character of Elizabeth , have rendered almost every part of their joint history uncertain and obscure . 
But , I fear that Mary was unquestionably a party to her husband's murder , and that this was the revenge she had threatened . 
The Scotch people universally believed it . 
Voices cried out in the streets of Edinburgh in the dead of the night , for justice on the murderess . 
, previously making a show of taking her prisoner by force , the indignation of the people knew no bounds . 
The women particularly are described as having been quite frantic against the Queen , and to have hooted and cried after her in the streets with terrific vehemence . 
Such guilty unions seldom prosper . 
Before this angry power , Bothwell fled abroad , where he died , a prisoner and mad , nine miserable years afterwards . 
Here , too , Murray saw her in a sorrowing and humbled state . 
On the opposite shore she was met by another Douglas , and some few lords and , so accompanied , rode away on horseback to Hamilton , where they raised three thousand men . 
Here , she issued a proclamation declaring that the abdication she had signed in her prison was illegal , and requiring the Regent to yield to his lawful Queen . 
In one quarter of an hour he cut down all her hopes . 
She had another weary ride on horse back of sixty long Scotch miles , and took shelter at Dundrennan Abbey , whence she fled for safety to Elizabeth's dominions . 
How she left it and the world , nineteen years afterwards , we have now to see . 
Made uneasy by this condition , Mary , rather than stay in England , would have gone to Spain , or to France , or would even have gone back to Scotland . 
But , as her doing either would have been likely to trouble England afresh , it was decided that she should be detained here . 
She first came to Carlisle , and , after that , was moved about from castle to castle , as was considered necessary but England she never left again . 
Accordingly , such an assembly , under the name of a conference , met , first at York , and afterwards at Hampton Court . 
, Mary expressed her approval of it , and the King of France and the King of Spain are supposed to have done the same . 
He made a humble reply at the time but turned sulky soon afterwards , and , being considered dangerous , was sent to the Tower . 
Thus , from the moment of Mary's coming to England she began to be the centre of plots and miseries . 
A rise of the Catholics in the north was the next of these , and it was only checked by many executions and much bloodshed . 
It was followed by a great conspiracy of the Pope and some of the Catholic sovereigns of Europe to depose Elizabeth , place Mary on the throne , and restore the unreformed religion . 
A copy of this miserable paper got into London , and was found one morning publicly posted on the Bishop of London's gate . 
This John Felton , being put upon the rack too , confessed that he had posted the placard on the Bishop's gate . 
For this offence he was , within four days , taken to St . 
Paul's Churchyard , and there hanged and quartered . 
As to the Pope's bull , the people by the reformation having thrown off the Pope , did not care much , you may suppose , for the Pope's throwing off them . 
It was a mere dirty piece of paper , and not half so powerful as a street ballad . 
On the very day when Felton was brought to his trial , the poor Duke of Norfolk was released . 
It would have been well for him if he had kept away from the Tower evermore , and from the snares that had taken him there . 
But , even while he was in that dismal place he corresponded with Mary , and as soon as he was out of it , he began to plot again . 
He was found guilty by the unanimous verdict of the Lords who tried him , and was sentenced to the block . 
Twice she commanded and countermanded the execution of this Duke , and it did not take place until five months after his trial . 
The scaffold was erected on Tower Hill , and there he died like a brave man . 
Although Mary had shrunk at the most important time from disproving her guilt , she was very careful never to do anything that would admit it . 
All such proposals as were made to her by Elizabeth for her release , required that admission in some form or other , and therefore came to nothing . 
Moreover , both women being artful and treacherous , and neither ever trusting the other , it was not likely that they could ever make an agreement . 
It would have done more than this , but for Elizabeth's moderation . 
These last were for the most part an uncomfortable people , who thought it highly meritorious to dress in a hideous manner , talk through their noses , and oppose all harmless enjoyments . 
But they were powerful too , and very much in earnest , and they were one and all the determined enemies of the Queen of Scots . 
The Protestant feeling in England was further strengthened by the tremendous cruelties to which Protestants were exposed in France and in the Netherlands . 
It is called in history , THE MASSACRE OF SAINT BARTHOLOMEW , because it took place on Saint Bartholomew's Eve . 
The day fell on Saturday the twenty third of August . 
When the appointed hour was close at hand , the stupid wretch , trembling from head to foot , was taken into a balcony by his mother to see the atrocious work begun . 
The moment the bell tolled , the murderers broke forth . 
They were shot at in the streets as they passed along , and their blood ran down the gutters . 
Upwards of ten thousand Protestants were killed in Paris alone in all France four or five times that number . 
But , however comfortable the wholesale murders were to these high authorities , they had not that soothing effect upon the doll King . 
When the terrible news of the massacre arrived in England , it made a powerful impression indeed upon the people . 
The Court was not quite so honest as the people but perhaps it sometimes is not . 
It received the French ambassador , with all the lords and ladies dressed in deep mourning , and keeping a profound silence . 
When he at last came over to England , the marriage articles were actually drawn up , and it was settled that the wedding should take place in six weeks . 
The Queen was then so bent upon it , that she prosecuted a poor Puritan named STUBBS , and a poor bookseller named PAGE , for writing and publishing a pamphlet against it . 
It is not much to her credit , for he was a bad enough member of a bad family . 
To return to the Catholics . 
There arose two orders of priests , who were very busy in England , and who were much dreaded . 
, and the SEMINARY PRIESTS . 
The severest laws were made against them , and were most unmercifully executed . 
If the English people were too ready to believe in plots , there were , as I have said , good reasons for it . 
This was SIR PHILIP SIDNEY , who was wounded by a musket ball in the thigh as he mounted a fresh horse , after having had his own killed under him . 
So delightful is an act of true humanity , and so glad are mankind to remember it . 
At home , intelligence of plots began to thicken every day . 
Still , we must always remember that they lived near and close to awful realities of that kind , and that with their experience it was not difficult to believe in any enormity . 
It even made some of the conspiracies it brought to light , by sending false letters to disaffected people , inviting them to join in pretended plots , which they too readily did . 
But , one great real plot was at length discovered , and it ended the career of Mary , Queen of Scots . 
Babington then confided the scheme to some other Catholic gentlemen who were his friends , and they joined in it heartily . 
Two of their number , however , one of whom was a priest , kept Elizabeth's wisest minister , SIR FRANCIS WALSINGHAM , acquainted with the whole project from the first . 
Walsingham , having then full evidence against the whole band , and two letters of Mary's besides , resolved to seize them . 
Suspecting something wrong , they stole out of the city , one by one , and hid themselves in St . 
John's Wood , and other places which really were hiding places then but they were all taken , and all executed . 
When they were seized , a gentleman was sent from Court to inform Mary of the fact , and of her being involved in the discovery . 
Her friends have complained that she was kept in very hard and severe custody . 
It does not appear very likely , for she was going out a hunting that very morning . 
The Bishop of London had , more lately , given the Queen's favourite minister the advice in writing , 'forthwith to cut off the Scottish Queen's head . 
His black advice , however , was disregarded , and she was brought to trial at Fotheringay Castle in Northamptonshire , before a tribunal of forty , composed of both religions . 
There , and in the Star Chamber at Westminster , the trial lasted a fortnight . 
She was found guilty , and declared to have incurred the penalty of death . 
The Parliament met , approved the sentence , and prayed the Queen to have it executed . 
The Queen replied that she requested them to consider whether no means could be found of saving Mary's life without endangering her own . 
It was an affecting letter , and Elizabeth shed tears over it , but sent no answer . 
Then came a special ambassador from France , and another from Scotland , to intercede for Mary's life and then the nation began to clamour , more and more , for her death . 
Again , next day but one , she seemed to complain that it was not yet done , but still she would not be plain with those about her . 
The hall was full of people . 
While the sentence was being read she sat upon a stool and , when it was finished , she again denied her guilt , as she had done before . 
When her head and neck were uncovered by the executioners , she said that she had not been used to be undressed by such hands , or before so much company . 
All her beauty was gone . 
Elizabeth not only over acted her part in making these pretences , but most basely reduced to poverty one of her faithful servants for no other fault than obeying her commands . 
Philip , King of Spain , however , threatened to do greater things than ever had been done yet , to set up the Catholic religion and punish Protestant England . 
to the port of Cadiz , where he burnt a hundred vessels full of stores . 
England was not idle in making ready to resist this great force . 
The great body of Catholics deserved this confidence for they behaved most loyally , nobly , and bravely . 
Then came the Spanish Armada into the English Channel , sailing along in the form of a half moon , of such great size that it was seven miles broad . 
So ended this great attempt to invade and conquer England . 
And I think it will be a long time before any other invincible fleet coming to England with the same object , will fare much better than the Spanish Armada . 
In obedience to the Queen's express instructions , they behaved with great humanity and the principal loss of the Spaniards was a vast sum of money which they had to pay for ransom . 
This was one of many gallant achievements on the sea , effected in this reign . 
Sir Walter Raleigh himself , after marrying a maid of honour and giving offence to the Maiden Queen thereby , had already sailed to South America in search of gold . 
The Earl of Leicester was now dead , and so was Sir Thomas Walsingham , whom Lord Burleigh was soon to follow . 
It was much debated at Court whether there should be peace with Spain or no , and he was very urgent for war . 
He also tried hard to have his own way in the appointment of a deputy to govern in Ireland . 
He went home instead , and did not reappear at Court for half a year or so , when he and the Queen were reconciled , though never thoroughly . 
From this time the fate of the Earl of Essex and that of the Queen seemed to be blended together . 
, who were glad to have so dangerous a rival far off . 
But it happened unfortunately for him , that he held a monopoly in sweet wines which means that nobody could sell them without purchasing his permission . 
This right , which was only for a term , expiring , he applied to have it renewed . 
The Queen refused , with the rather strong observation but she DID make strong observations that an unruly beast must be stinted in his food . 
These uncomplimentary expressions the ladies of the Court immediately snapped up and carried to the Queen , whom they did not put in a better tempter , you may believe . 
The same Court ladies , when they had beautiful dark hair of their own , used to wear false red hair , to be like the Queen . 
So they were not very high spirited ladies , however high in rank . 
On Saturday the seventh of February , one thousand six hundred and one , the council suspecting this , summoned the Earl to come before them . 
Paul's Cathedral , he should make one bold effort to induce them to rise and follow him to the Palace . 
Paul's there were no citizens there . 
His step father suffered with him . 
His enemy , Sir Walter Raleigh , stood near the scaffold all the time but not so near it as we shall see him stand , before we finish his history . 
In this case , as in the cases of the Duke of Norfolk and Mary Queen of Scots , the Queen had commanded , and countermanded , and again commanded , the execution . 
For another year still , she held out , but , without any more dancing , and as a moody , sorrowful , broken creature . 
At three o'clock next morning , she very quietly died , in the forty fifth year of her reign . 
That reign had been a glorious one , and is made for ever memorable by the distinguished men who flourished in it . 
some portion of their lustre to the name of Elizabeth herself . 
It was a great reign for discovery , for commerce , and for English enterprise and spirit in general . 
It was a great reign for the Protestant religion and for the Reformation which made England free . 
The Queen was very popular , and in her progresses , or journeys about her dominions , was everywhere received with the liveliest joy . 
I think the truth is , that she was not half so good as she has been made out , and not half so bad as she has been made out . 
On the whole , she had a great deal too much of her father in her , to please me . 
CHAPTER XXXII ENGLAND UNDER JAMES THE FIRST 'OUR cousin of Scotland' was ugly , awkward , and shuffling both in mind and person . 
His tongue was much too large for his mouth , his legs were much too weak for his body , and his dull goggle eyes stared and rolled like an idiot's . 
He was cunning , covetous , wasteful , idle , drunken , greedy , dirty , cowardly , a great swearer , and the most conceited man on earth . 
His majesty was the worst rider ever seen , and thought himself the best . 
ever heard , and boasted of being unanswerable in all manner of argument . 
He wrote some of the most wearisome treatises ever read among others , a book upon witchcraft , in which he was a devout believer and thought himself a prodigy of authorship . 
He thought , and wrote , and said , that a king had a right to make and unmake what laws he pleased , and ought to be accountable to nobody on earth . 
He came to the English throne with great ease . 
He made two hundred knights before he got to his palace in London , and seven hundred before he had been in it three months . 
He also shovelled sixty two new peers into the House of Lords and there was a pretty large sprinkling of Scotchmen among them , you may believe . 
He was found guilty , nevertheless , and sentenced to death . 
Execution was deferred , and he was taken to the Tower . 
The two Catholic priests , less fortunate , were executed with the usual atrocity and Lord Cobham and two others were pardoned on the scaffold . 
The miserable Cobham did not gain much by being spared that day . 
It was comfortably settled that there was to be only one form of religion , and that all men were to think exactly alike . 
His Sowship , having that uncommonly high opinion of himself as a king , had a very low opinion of Parliament as a power that audaciously wanted to control him . 
The Parliament thought those strong words , and saw the necessity of upholding their authority . 
His Sowship had three children Prince Henry , Prince Charles , and the Princess Elizabeth . 
It would have been well for one of these , and we shall too soon see which , if he had learnt a little wisdom concerning Parliaments from his father's obstinacy . 
Now , the people still labouring under their old dread of the Catholic religion , this Parliament revived and strengthened the severe laws against it . 
The first person to whom he confided this horrible idea was THOMAS WINTER , a Worcestershire gentleman who had served in the army abroad , and had been secretly employed in Catholic projects . 
Resolved to join the plot , he proposed it to this man , knowing him to be the man for any desperate deed , and they two came back to England together . 
Here , they admitted two other conspirators THOMAS PERCY , related to the Earl of Northumberland , and JOHN WRIGHT , his brother in law . 
Percy was a Gentleman Pensioner , and as he had occasional duties to perform about the Court , then kept at Whitehall , there would be nothing suspicious in his living at Westminster . 
They had laid in a good stock of eatables , to avoid going in and out , and they dug and dug with great ardour . 
And Christopher Wright fell to like a fresh man , and they dug and dug by night and by day , and Fawkes stood sentinel all the time . 
It was the beginning of February , sixteen hundred and five , when Catesby met his fellow conspirators again at this Westminster house . 
These three had all suffered more or less for their religion in Elizabeth's time . 
And now , they all began to dig again , and they dug and dug by night and by day . 
They found it dismal work alone there , underground , with such a fearful secret on their minds , and so many murders before them . 
They were filled with wild fancies . 
The unconscious Commissioners were walking about and talking to one another , just over the six and thirty barrels of gunpowder . 
He came back and told the rest so , and they went on with their preparations . 
And now all was ready . 
But , now , the great wickedness and danger which had been all along at the bottom of this wicked plot , began to show itself . 
They were not much comforted by Catesby's declaring that in such a cause he would blow up his own son . 
It contained the words 'that the Parliament should receive a terrible blow , and yet should not see who hurt them . 
And it added , 'the danger is past , as soon as you have burnt the letter . 
The ministers and courtiers made out that his Sowship , by a direct miracle from Heaven , found out what this letter meant . 
in finding out for themselves and it was decided to let the conspirators alone , until the very day before the opening of Parliament . 
However , they were all firm and Fawkes , who was a man of iron , went down every day and night to keep watch in the cellar as usual . 
He was there about two in the afternoon of the fourth , when the Lord Chamberlain and Lord Mounteagle threw open the door and looked in . 
'Who are you , friend ? said they . 
'Why , said Fawkes , 'I am Mr. Percy's servant , and am looking after his store of fuel here . 
'Your master has laid in a pretty good store , they returned , and shut the door , and went away . 
About two hours afterwards , he slowly opened the door , and came out to look about him , in his old prowling way . 
He was instantly seized and bound , by a party of soldiers under SIR THOMAS KNEVETT . 
He had a watch upon him , some touchwood , some tinder , some slow matches and there was a dark lantern with a candle in it , lighted , behind the door . 
He had his boots and spurs on to ride to the ship , I suppose and it was well for the soldiers that they took him so suddenly . 
If they had left him but a moment's time to light a match , he certainly would have tossed it in among the powder , and blown up himself and them . 
, asked him how he could have the heart to intend to destroy so many innocent people ? 'Because , said Guy Fawkes , 'desperate diseases need desperate remedies . 
why he had collected so much gunpowder , he replied , because he had meant to blow Scotchmen back to Scotland , and it would take a deal of powder to do that . 
Next day he was carried to the Tower , but would make no confession . 
Bates , a very different man , soon said the Jesuits had had to do with the plot , and probably , under the torture , would as readily have said anything . 
Tresham , taken and put in the Tower too , made confessions and unmade them , and died of an illness that was heavy upon him . 
On the road , he came up with the two Wrights , Catesby , and Percy and they all galloped together into Northamptonshire . 
Thence to Dunchurch , where they found the proposed party assembled . 
Away they all rode again , through Warwickshire and Worcestershire , to a house called Holbeach , on the borders of Staffordshire . 
They tried to raise the Catholics on their way , but were indignantly driven off by them . 
All this time they were hotly pursued by the sheriff of Worcester , and a fast increasing concourse of riders . 
At last , resolving to defend themselves at Holbeach , they shut themselves up in the house , and put some wet powder before the fire to dry . 
But it blew up , and Catesby was singed and blackened , and almost killed , and some of the others were sadly hurt . 
John Wright , and Christopher Wright , and Percy , were also shot . 
Rookwood and Digby were taken the former with a broken arm and a wound in his body too . 
It was the fifteenth of January , before the trial of Guy Fawkes , and such of the other conspirators as were left alive , came on . 
They were all found guilty , all hanged , drawn , and quartered some , in St . 
Paul's Churchyard , on the top of Ludgate hill some , before the Parliament House . 
He himself was not tortured , but was surrounded in the Tower by tamperers and traitors , and so was made unfairly to convict himself out of his own mouth . 
At one time he wanted it to consent to the Union of England with Scotland , and quarrelled about that . 
At another time it wanted him to put down a most infamous Church abuse , called the High Commission Court , and he quarrelled with it about that . 
These disputes with his Parliaments , and his hunting , and his drinking , and his lying in bed for he was a great sluggard occupied his Sowship pretty well . 
The rest of his time he chiefly passed in hugging and slobbering his favourites . 
The first of these was SIR PHILIP HERBERT , who had no knowledge whatever , except of dogs , and horses , and hunting , but whom he soon made EARL OF MONTGOMERY . 
, who came from the Border country , and whom he soon made VISCOUNT ROCHESTER , and afterwards , EARL OF SOMERSET . 
But , after a longer sunshine than might have been expected of seven years or so , that is to say another handsome young man started up and eclipsed the EARL OF SOMERSET . 
He soon danced himself into the good graces of his Sowship , and danced the other favourite out of favour . 
They hated one another by this time , and lived to revile and torment each other some years . 
The first was that of the Minister , Robert Cecil , Earl of Salisbury , who was past sixty , and had never been strong , being deformed from his birth . 
He said at last that he had no wish to live and no Minister need have had , with his experience of the meanness and wickedness of those disgraceful times . 
and thrust into a boat to be confined at Durham . 
She escaped in a man's dress to get away in a French ship from Gravesend to France , but unhappily missed her husband , who had escaped too , and was soon taken . 
She went raving mad in the miserable Tower , and died there after four years . 
The last , and the most important of these three deaths , was that of Prince Henry , the heir to the throne , in the nineteenth year of his age . 
, he came from Richmond , where he had been very ill , to greet his new brother in law , at the palace at Whitehall . 
After an imprisonment in the Tower of twelve long years , he proposed to resume those old sea voyages of his , and to go to South America in search of gold . 
, and his avaricious eagerness to get hold of the gold , did not know what to do . 
After a great deal of prevarication on all parts but his own , it was declared that he must die under his former sentence , now fifteen years old . 
With that , he kneeled and made a very beautiful and Christian prayer . 
The new favourite got on fast . 
He had the whole kingdom at his disposal , and his mother sold all the profits and honours of the State , as if she had kept a shop . 
He blazed all over with diamonds and other precious stones , from his hatband and his earrings to his shoes . 
Yet he was an ignorant presumptuous , swaggering compound of knave and fool , with nothing but his beauty and his dancing to recommend him . 
This is the gentleman who called himself his Majesty's dog and slave , and called his Majesty Your Sowship . 
His Sowship called him STEENIE it is supposed , because that was a nickname for Stephen , and because St . 
Stephen was generally represented in pictures as a handsome saint . 
Like most dishonest men , the Prince and the favourite complained that the people whom they had deluded were dishonest . 
They made such misrepresentations of the treachery of the Spaniards in this business of the Spanish match , that the English nation became eager for a war with them . 
The end of it was that his Sowship hugged his dog and slave , and said he was quite satisfied . 
He had reigned twenty two years , and was fifty nine years old . 
It is much to be doubted whether one man of honour , and not utterly self disgraced , kept his place near James the First . 
But , a creature like his Sowship set upon a throne is like the Plague , and everybody receives infection from him . 
CHAPTER XXXIII ENGLAND UNDER CHARLES THE FIRST BABY CHARLES became KING CHARLES THE FIRST , in the twenty fifth year of his age . 
If his word could have been relied upon , his history might have had a different end . 
The English people were very well disposed to like their new Queen , and to receive her with great favour when she came among them as a stranger . 
against his subjects , that it would have been better for him if she had never been born . 
he never took a straight course , but always took a crooked one . 
of many great public grievances and wrongs . 
He then began to raise money for himself by the following means among others . 
If the poor people refused , they were pressed as soldiers or sailors if the gentry refused , they were sent to prison . 
Then the question came to be solemnly tried , whether this was not a violation of Magna Charta , and an encroachment by the King on the highest rights of the English people . 
His lawyers contended No , because to encroach upon the rights of the English people would be to do wrong , and the King could do no wrong . 
The accommodating judges decided in favour of this wicked nonsense and here was a fatal division between the King and the people . 
For all this , it became necessary to call another Parliament . 
That pestilent Buckingham , to gratify his own wounded vanity , had by this time involved the country in war with France , as well as with Spain . 
For such miserable causes and such miserable creatures are wars sometimes made ! But he was destined to do little more mischief in this world . 
This happened in his hall . 
He said he had had no personal ill will to the Duke , but had killed him as a curse to the country . 
The council made a mighty business of examining John Felton about this murder , though it was a plain case enough , one would think . 
A very different man now arose . 
A Parliament , however , was still in existence , and was NOT to be won . 
The resolutions were by that time , however , voted , and the House adjourned . 
Sir John Eliot and those two members who had held the Speaker down , were quickly summoned before the council . 
As they claimed it to be their privilege not to answer out of Parliament for anything they had said in it , they were committed to the Tower . 
As they refused to gain their liberty by saying they were sorry for what they had done , the King , always remarkably unforgiving , never overlooked their offence . 
At last they came before the court and were sentenced to heavy fines , and to be imprisoned during the King's pleasure . 
that the petition was not humble enough . 
All this was like a very little King indeed , I think . 
And now , for twelve long years , steadily pursuing his design of setting himself up and putting the people down , the King called no Parliament but ruled without one . 
It is a fashion with some people to think that this King's career was cut short but I must say myself that I think he ran a pretty long one . 
WILLIAM LAUD , Archbishop of Canterbury , was the King's right hand man in the religious part of the putting down of the people's liberties . 
He looked upon vows , robes , lighted candles , images , and so forth , as amazingly important in religious ceremonies and he brought in an immensity of bowing and candle snuffing . 
He also regarded archbishops and bishops as a sort of miraculous persons , and was inveterate in the last degree against any who thought otherwise . 
He highly approved of the punishment of DOCTOR BASTWICK , a physician who was also fined a thousand pounds and who afterwards had HIS ears cut off , and was imprisoned for life . 
These were gentle methods of persuasion , some will tell you I think , they were rather calculated to be alarming to the people . 
In the money part of the putting down of the people's liberties , the King was equally gentle , as some will tell you as I think , equally alarming . 
He levied those duties of tonnage and poundage , and increased them as he thought fit . 
He granted monopolies to companies of merchants on their paying him for them , notwithstanding the great complaints that had , for years and years , been made on the subject of monopolies . 
He fined the people for disobeying proclamations issued by his Sowship in direct violation of law . 
He revived the detested Forest laws , and took private property to himself as his forest right . 
The grievance of this ship money being somewhat too strong , JOHN CHAMBERS , a citizen of London , refused to pay his part of it . 
For this the Lord Mayor ordered John Chambers to prison , and for that John Chambers brought a suit against the Lord Mayor . 
LORD SAY , also , behaved like a real nobleman , and declared he would not pay . 
But O ! it would have been well for the King if he had let them go ! This was the state of England . 
If Laud had been a madman just broke loose , he could not have done more mischief than he did in Scotland . 
to force his own ideas of bishops , and his own religious forms and ceremonies upon the Scotch , he roused that nation to a perfect frenzy . 
At first the King tried force , then treaty , then a Scottish Parliament which did not answer at all . 
Then he tried the EARL OF STRAFFORD , formerly Sir Thomas Wentworth who , as LORD WENTWORTH , had been governing Ireland . 
He , too , had carried it with a very high hand there , though to the benefit and prosperity of that country . 
Strafford and Laud were for conquering the Scottish people by force of arms . 
Other lords who were taken into council , recommended that a Parliament should at last be called to which the King unwillingly consented . 
So , on the thirteenth of April , one thousand six hundred and forty , that then strange sight , a Parliament , was seen at Westminster . 
It is called the Short Parliament , for it lasted a very little while . 
While the members were all looking at one another , doubtful who would dare to speak , MR . 
PYM arose and set forth all that the King had done unlawfully during the past twelve years , and what was the position to which England was reduced . 
This great example set , other members took courage and spoke the truth freely , though with great patience and moderation . 
The King , a little frightened , sent to say that if they would grant him a certain sum on certain terms , no more ship money should be raised . 
They debated the matter for two days and then , as they would not give him all he asked without promise or inquiry , he dissolved them . 
But they knew very well that he must have a Parliament now and he began to make that discovery too , though rather late in the day . 
The soldiers of the Covenant had now forced their way into England and had taken possession of the northern counties , where the coals are got . 
Meanwhile the northern counties paid the Covenanters to leave the coals alone , and keep quiet . 
We have now disposed of the Short Parliament . 
We have next to see what memorable things were done by the Long one . 
SECOND PART THE Long Parliament assembled on the third of November , one thousand six hundred and forty one . 
The King told him , for his comfort , that the Parliament 'should not hurt one hair of his head . 
But , on the very next day Mr. Pym , in the House of Commons , and with great solemnity , impeached the Earl of Strafford as a traitor . 
He was immediately taken into custody and fell from his proud height . 
It was not clear whether by the words 'this kingdom , he had really meant England or Scotland but the Parliament contended that he meant England , and this was treason . 
So , a bill was brought in at once , was carried through the House of Commons by a large majority , and was sent up to the House of Lords . 
The Earl had written to him , telling him that he was willing to die for his sake . 
In a postscript to the very same letter , he added , 'If he must die , it were charity to reprieve him till Saturday . 
If there had been any doubt of his fate , this weakness and meanness would have settled it . 
The very next day , which was the twelfth of May , he was brought out to be beheaded on Tower Hill . 
However , those high and mighty doings were over now , and the Earl went his way to death with dignity and heroism . 
So , he walked , with a firm tread and a stately look , and sometimes pulled off his hat to them as he passed along . 
, and one blow of the axe killed him , in the forty ninth year of his age . 
in the King's having so grossly and so long abused his power . 
Great illuminations and rejoicings took place over all these things , and the country was wildly excited . 
All this time there was a great religious outcry against the right of the Bishops to sit in Parliament to which the Scottish people particularly objected . 
Some suppose that he wanted to gain over the Scottish Parliament , as he did in fact gain over , by presents and favours , many Scottish lords and men of power . 
Some think that he went to get proofs against the Parliamentary leaders in England of their having treasonably invited the Scottish people to come and help them . 
With whatever object he went to Scotland , he did little good by going . 
At the instigation of the EARL OF MONTROSE , a desperate man who was then in prison for plotting , he tried to kidnap three Scottish lords who escaped . 
The King came home from Scotland , determined to make a great struggle for his lost power . 
It would take a good many Lord Mayors , however , to make a people , and the King soon found himself mistaken . 
This they asked the King to send to the House of Lords , which he did . 
, JOHN HAMPDEN , and WILLIAM STRODE . 
The houses of those members he caused to be entered , and their papers to be sealed up . 
At the same time , he sent a messenger to the House of Commons demanding to have the five gentlemen who were members of that House immediately produced . 
To this the House replied that they should appear as soon as there was any legal charge against them , and immediately adjourned . 
These he leaves in the hall and then , with his nephew at his side , goes into the House , takes off his hat , and walks up to the Speaker's chair . 
The Speaker leaves it , the King stands in front of it , looks about him steadily for a little while , and says he has come for those five members . 
No one speaks , and then he calls John Pym by name . 
No one speaks , and then he calls Denzil Hollis by name . 
No words can describe the hurry that arose out of doors when all this was known . 
It was the eleventh of May , when the five members were carried in state and triumph to Westminster . 
They were taken by water . 
Along the Strand a large body of the train bands of London , under their commander , SKIPPON , marched to be ready to assist the little fleet . 
Upon that , the House called the sheriffs in and thanked them , and requested the train bands , under their commander Skippon , to guard the House of Commons every day . 
This , the Parliament said , was making war against the kingdom , and Lord Digby fled abroad . 
It also passed a law depriving the Bishops of their votes . 
His young daughter was betrothed to the Prince of Orange . 
The Lord Admiral being sick , the House of Commons now named the Earl of Warwick to hold his place for a year . 
The King named another gentleman the House of Commons took its own way , and the Earl of Warwick became Lord Admiral without the King's consent . 
The Parliament sent orders down to Hull to have that magazine removed to London the King went down to Hull to take it himself . 
The citizens would not admit him into the town , and the governor would not admit him into the castle . 
The King protested against this , and gave notice that these ordinances were not to be obeyed . 
The King , attended by the majority of the House of Peers , and by many members of the House of Commons , established himself at York . 
The Chancellor went to him with the Great Seal , and the Parliament made a new Great Seal . 
The Queen sent over a ship full of arms and ammunition , and the King issued letters to borrow money at high interest . 
Foremost among them all , OLIVER CROMWELL raised a troop of horse thoroughly in earnest and thoroughly well armed who were , perhaps , the best soldiers that ever were seen . 
but those of the nobility and gentry who were on the King's side were so brave , and so faithful to him , that their conduct cannot but command our highest admiration . 
Among them were great numbers of Catholics , who took the royal side because the Queen was so strongly of their persuasion . 
The King might have distinguished some of these gallant spirits , if he had been as generous a spirit himself , by giving them the command of his army . 
The general in chief of the Parliamentary army was the Earl of Essex , a gentleman of honour and an excellent soldier . 
These two words now began to be used to distinguish the two sides in the civil war . 
The Royalists also called the Parliamentary men Rebels and Rogues , while the Parliamentary men called THEM Malignants , and spoke of themselves as the Godly , the Honest , and so forth . 
The war broke out at Portsmouth , where that double traitor Goring had again gone over to the King and was besieged by the Parliamentary troops . 
, at Leicester , at Naseby , at Winchester , at Marston Moor near York , at Newcastle , and in many other parts of England and Scotland . 
These battles were attended with various successes . 
At one time , the King was victorious at another time , the Parliament . 
The most distinguished leaders on the Parliamentary side were HAMPDEN , SIR THOMAS FAIRFAX , and , above all , OLIVER CROMWELL , and his son in law IRETON . 
So were some of the best men in each cause . 
But they came to nothing . 
In all these negotiations , and in all his difficulties , the King showed himself at his best . 
He never kept his word from night to morning . 
He signed a cessation of hostilities with the blood stained Irish rebels for a sum of money , and invited the Irish regiments over , to help him against the Parliament . 
He rode towards London as far as Harrow , and then altered his plans and resolved , it would seem , to go to the Scottish camp . 
The Scottish men had been invited over to help the Parliamentary army , and had a large force then in England . 
The King was so desperately intriguing in everything he did , that it is doubtful what he exactly meant by this step . 
He took it , anyhow , and delivered himself up to the EARL OF LEVEN , the Scottish general in chief , who treated him as an honourable prisoner . 
Negotiations between the Parliament on the one hand and the Scottish authorities on the other , as to what should be done with him , lasted until the following February . 
He was taken , by certain Parliamentary commissioners appointed to receive him , to one of his own houses , called Holmby House , near Althorpe , in Northamptonshire . 
The war was but newly over when the Earl of Essex died , of an illness brought on by his having overheated himself in a stag hunt in Windsor Forest . 
He , too , was buried in Westminster Abbey , with great state . 
I wish it were not necessary to add that Archbishop Laud died upon the scaffold when the war was not yet done . 
He was a violently prejudiced and mischievous person had had strong ear cropping and nose splitting propensities , as you know and had done a world of harm . 
But he died peaceably , and like a brave old man . 
The King was willing enough to go , and only stipulated that he should be publicly required to do so next morning . 
'Have you a written commission ? said the King . 
Joice , pointing to his four hundred men on horseback , replied , 'That is my commission . 
'Well , said the King , smiling , as if he were pleased , 'I never before read such a commission but it is written in fair and legible characters . 
This is a company of as handsome proper gentlemen as I have seen a long while . 
He was asked where he would like to live , and he said at Newmarket . 
The King quite believed , I think , that the army were his friends . 
He said as much to Fairfax when that general , Oliver Cromwell , and Ireton , went to persuade him to return to the custody of the Parliament . 
He preferred to remain as he was , and resolved to remain as he was . 
And when the army moved nearer and nearer London to frighten the Parliament into yielding to their demands , they took the King with them . 
It must be added , however , that they treated him , as yet , more respectfully and kindly than the Parliament had done . 
They allowed him to be attended by his own servants , to be splendidly entertained at various houses , and to see his children at Cavesham House , near Reading for two days . 
Whereas , the Parliament had been rather hard with him , and had only allowed him to ride out and play at bowls . 
It is much to be believed that if the King could have been trusted , even at this time , he might have been saved . 
Even Oliver Cromwell expressly said that he did believe that no man could enjoy his possessions in peace , unless the King had his rights . 
I see little reason to doubt the story . 
I believe that , in fact , he sincerely wanted the King to escape abroad , and so to be got rid of without more trouble or danger . 
The King , when he received Oliver's warning , made his escape from Hampton Court after some indecision and uncertainty , he went to Carisbrooke Castle in the Isle of Wight . 
He was doomed to be disappointed in his hopes from Scotland . 
The agreement he had made with the Scottish Commissioners was not favourable enough to the religion of that country to please the Scottish clergy and they preached against it . 
to help his father but nothing came of his voyage , and he was fain to return . 
When Sir Charles Lucas was shot , Sir George Lisle kissed his body , and said to the soldiers who were to shoot him , 'Come nearer , and make sure of me . 
'I warrant you , Sir George , said one of the soldiers , 'we shall hit you . 
'AY ? he returned with a smile , 'but I have been nearer to you , my friends , many a time , and you have missed me . 
, they appointed commissioners to treat with him . 
to the temporary abolition of the bishops , and the transfer of their church land to the Crown . 
Matters were at this pass when the army , resolved to defy the Parliament , marched up to London . 
The Parliament , not afraid of them now , and boldly led by Hollis , voted that the King's concessions were sufficient ground for settling the peace of the kingdom . 
This proceeding was afterwards called by the people , for a joke , PRIDE'S PURGE . 
Cromwell was in the North , at the head of his men , at the time , but when he came home , approved of what had been done . 
What with imprisoning some members and causing others to stay away , the army had now reduced the House of Commons to some fifty or so . 
The House of Lords , then sixteen in number , to a man rejected it . 
Thereupon , the Commons made an ordinance of their own , that they were the supreme government of the country , and would bring the King to trial . 
James's Palace in London , and told that his trial was appointed for next day . 
On Saturday , the twentieth of January , one thousand six hundred and forty nine , this memorable trial began . 
JOHN BRADSHAW , serjeant at law , was appointed president . 
The place was Westminster Hall . 
The rest of the Court sat on side benches , also wearing their hats . 
The King's seat was covered with velvet , like that of the president , and was opposite to it . 
He was brought from St . 
James's to Whitehall , and from Whitehall he came by water to his trial . 
Also , that the King ought to be there , and that he saw no King in the King's right place . 
Bradshaw replied , that the Court was satisfied with its authority , and that its authority was God's authority and the kingdom's . 
He then adjourned the Court to the following Monday . 
On that day , the trial was resumed , and went on all the week . 
When the Saturday came , as the King passed forward to his place in the Hall , some soldiers and others cried for 'justice ! and execution on him . 
That day , too , Bradshaw , like an angry Sultan , wore a red robe , instead of the black robe he had worn before . 
The King was sentenced to death that day . 
As he went out , one solitary soldier said , 'God bless you , Sir ! For this , his officer struck him . 
The King said he thought the punishment exceeded the offence . 
The silver head of his walking stick had fallen off while he leaned upon it , at one time of the trial . 
The accident seemed to disturb him , as if he thought it ominous of the falling of his own head and he admitted as much , now it was all over . 
On the Monday he was taken back to St . 
, and told them that he died 'for the laws and liberties of the land . 
I am bound to say that I don't think he did , but I dare say he believed so . 
There were ambassadors from Holland that day , to intercede for the unhappy King , whom you and I both wish the Parliament had spared but they got no answer . 
Notwithstanding all , the warrant for the execution was this day signed . 
That commissioner had not signed his own name yet , and the story adds that when he came to do it he marked Cromwell's face with ink in the same way . 
He put on two shirts lest he should tremble with the cold , and had his hair very carefully combed . 
The warrant had been directed to three officers of the army , COLONEL HACKER , COLONEL HUNKS , and COLONEL PHAYER . 
At ten o'clock , the first of these came to the door and said it was time to go to Whitehall . 
, he took the advice of the good BISHOP JUXON who was with him , and ate a little bread and drank a glass of claret . 
Soon after he had taken this refreshment , Colonel Hacker came to the chamber with the warrant in his hand , and called for Charles Stuart . 
James's and he looked at the block . 
In one respect , he said , 'he suffered justly and that was because he had permitted an unjust sentence to be executed on another . 
In this he referred to the Earl of Strafford . 
He was not at all afraid to die but he was anxious to die easily . 
He told the executioner , 'I shall say but very short prayers , and then thrust out my hands' as the sign to strike . 
He put his hair up , under a white satin cap which the bishop had carried , and said , 'I have a good cause and a gracious God on my side . 
Thus , in the forty ninth year of his age , falling at the same time of his career as Strafford had fallen in his , perished Charles the First . 
Indeed , I am afraid that he was but a bad judge of martyrs for he had called that infamous Duke of Buckingham 'the Martyr of his Sovereign . 
, they then appointed a Council of State to govern the country . 
It consisted of forty one members , of whom five were peers . 
The House of Commons also re admitted members who had opposed the King's death , and made up its numbers to about a hundred and fifty . 
But , it still had an army of more than forty thousand men to deal with , and a very hard task it was to manage them . 
Before the King's execution , the army had appointed some of its officers to remonstrate between them and the Parliament and now the common soldiers began to take that office upon themselves . 
The regiments under orders for Ireland mutinied one troop of horse in the city of London seized their own flag , and refused to obey orders . 
The soldiers soon found , as all men did , that Oliver was not a man to be trifled with . 
And there was an end of the mutiny . 
He was soon taken prisoner and carried to Edinburgh . 
There he was received with every possible insult , and carried to prison in a cart , his officers going two and two before him . 
He went to the scaffold in a bright and brilliant dress , and made a bold end at thirty eight years of age . 
The breath was scarcely out of his body when Charles abandoned his memory , and denied that he had ever given him orders to rise in his behalf . 
There were numbers of friars and priests among them , and Oliver gruffly wrote home in his despatch that these were 'knocked on the head' like the rest . 
, and he imitated the example of his father in law with such good will that he brought the country to subjection , and laid it at the feet of the Parliament . 
These were sweeping measures but , if Oliver Cromwell had had his own way fully , and had stayed in Ireland , he would have done more yet . 
Accordingly , in an evil hour for themselves , they came out of their safe position . 
Oliver fell upon them instantly , and killed three thousand , and took ten thousand prisoners . 
He meant no sort of truth in this , and soon afterwards galloped away on horseback to join some tiresome Highland friends , who were always flourishing dirks and broadswords . 
On the first of January , one thousand six hundred and fifty one , the Scottish people crowned him at Scone . 
He immediately took the chief command of an army of twenty thousand men , and marched to Stirling . 
He fled in the night , with not more than sixty followers , to the house of a Catholic lady in Staffordshire . 
There , for his greater safety , the whole sixty left him . 
LASCELLES , who had gone on horseback beside her all the way , went home . 
I hope Miss Lane was going to marry that cousin , for I am sure she must have been a brave , kind girl . 
If I had been that cousin , I should certainly have loved Miss Lane . 
But , the captain's wife , being afraid of her husband getting into trouble , locked him up and would not let him sail . 
His ready answer was , 'Ah , I did live with him once but I have no time to talk now . 
We'll have a pot of beer together when I come back . 
From this dangerous place he returned to Trent , and lay there concealed several days . 
As the King acted his part very well indeed , and gave the sailors twenty shillings to drink , they begged the captain to do what such a worthy gentleman asked . 
He pretended to yield to their entreaties , and the King got safe to Normandy . 
Blake fought him all day but , finding that the Dutch were too many for him , got quietly off at night . 
It had now lasted just as many years as the King's unbridled power had lasted , before it came into existence . 
These last he left in the lobby , and then went in and sat down . 
Presently he got up , made the Parliament a speech , told them that the Lord had done with them , stamped his foot and said , 'You are no Parliament . 
Bring them in ! Bring them in ! At this signal the door flew open , and the soldiers appeared . 
'This is not honest , said Sir Harry Vane , one of the members . 
There , in the Court of Chancery , he publicly accepted the office of Lord Protector . 
He had also pledged himself that this Parliament should not be dissolved without its own consent until it had sat five months . 
When this Parliament met , Oliver made a speech to them of three hours long , very wisely advising them what to do for the credit and happiness of the country . 
Then he dismissed them to go to work . 
There was not at that time , in England or anywhere else , a man so able to govern the country as Oliver Cromwell . 
, he ruled wisely , and as the times required . 
These were not all his foreign triumphs . 
The English broadsides so exceedingly astonished the Dutch that they sheered off at last , though the redoubtable Van Tromp fired upon them with his own guns for deserting their flag . 
Soon afterwards , the two fleets engaged again , off the coast of Holland . 
There , the valiant Van Tromp was shot through the heart , and the Dutch gave in , and peace was made . 
Very well , said Oliver , then he was afraid he must damage those two eyes directly . 
So , another fleet was despatched under two commanders , PENN and VENABLES , for Hispaniola where , however , the Spaniards got the better of the fight . 
Consequently , the fleet came home again , after taking Jamaica on the way . 
After this victory , bold Admiral Blake sailed away to the port of Santa Cruz to cut off the Spanish treasure ships coming from Mexico . 
Blake cared no more for great guns than for pop guns no more for their hot iron balls than for snow balls . 
He dashed into the harbour , captured and burnt every one of the ships , and came sailing out again triumphantly , with the victorious English flag flying at his masthead . 
This was the last triumph of this great commander , who had sailed and fought until he was quite worn out . 
He died , as his successful ship was coming into Plymouth Harbour amidst the joyful acclamations of the people , and was buried in state in Westminster Abbey . 
Not to lie there , long . 
, and among the disappointed Republicans . 
He had a difficult game to play , for the Royalists were always ready to side with either party against him . 
Oliver seemed to have eyes and ears everywhere , and secured such sources of information as his enemies little dreamed of . 
There was a chosen body of six persons , called the Sealed Knot , who were in the closest and most secret confidence of Charles . 
One of the foremost of these very men , a SIR RICHARD WILLIS , reported to Oliver everything that passed among them , and had two hundred a year for it . 
MILES SYNDARCOMB , also of the old army , was another conspirator against the Protector . 
He and a man named CECIL , bribed one of his Life Guards to let them have good notice when he was going out intending to shoot him from a window . 
But , owing either to his caution or his good fortune , they could never get an aim at him . 
a little while before he was ordered for execution . 
If he were rigid , he was impartial too , in asserting the laws of England . 
The gentlemen inside were only bruised , and the discontented people of all parties were much disappointed . 
The rest of the history of the Protectorate of Oliver Cromwell is a history of his Parliaments . 
His first one not pleasing him at all , he waited until the five months were out , and then dissolved it . 
The next was better suited to his views and from that he desired to get if he could with safety to himself the title of King . 
He was already as high , in England and in all the world , as he would ever be , and I doubt if he cared for the mere name . 
That he would have taken the title of King there is no doubt , but for the strong opposition of the army . 
This induced him to forbear , and to assent only to the other points of the petition . 
I wish this had been a warning to Parliaments to avoid long speeches , and do more work . 
, lay very ill , and his mind was greatly troubled , because he loved her dearly . 
Although his religion had been of a gloomy kind , his disposition had been always cheerful . 
He encouraged men of genius and learning , and loved to have them about him . 
MILTON was one of his great friends . 
But he had lived in busy times , had borne the weight of heavy State affairs , and had often gone in fear of his life . 
He was ill of the gout and ague and when the death of his beloved child came upon him in addition , he sank , never to raise his head again . 
He told his physicians on the twenty fourth of August that the Lord had assured him that he was not to die in that illness , and that he would certainly get better . 
He had been delirious , and had lain insensible some hours , but he had been overheard to murmur a very good prayer the day before . 
The whole country lamented his death . 
He was an amiable country gentleman , but had none of his father's great genius , and was quite unfit for such a post in such a storm of parties . 
Monk said , however , it would be all right when he came , and he could not come too soon . 
The people drank the King's health by thousands in the open streets , and everybody rejoiced . 
Down came the Arms of the Commonwealth , up went the Royal Arms instead , and out came the public money . 
Fifty thousand pounds for the King , ten thousand pounds for his brother the Duke of York , five thousand pounds for his brother the Duke of Gloucester . 
to invite the King home Monk and the Kentish grandees went to Dover , to kneel down before him as he landed . 
, in the year one thousand six hundred and sixty . 
CHAPTER XXXV ENGLAND UNDER CHARLES THE SECOND , CALLED THE MERRY MONARCH THERE never were such profligate times in England as under Charles the Second . 
, drinking , gambling , indulging in vicious conversation , and committing every kind of profligate excess . 
It has been a fashion to call Charles the Second 'The Merry Monarch . 
who had been concerned in making a martyr of the late King . 
These executions were so extremely merry , that every horrible circumstance which Cromwell had abandoned was revived with appalling cruelty . 
Still , even so merry a monarch could not force one of these dying men to say that he was sorry for what he had done . 
Nay , the most memorable thing said among them was , that if the thing were to do again they would do it . 
Vane said no more than this 'It is a bad cause which cannot bear the words of a dying man and bravely died . 
These merry scenes were succeeded by another , perhaps even merrier . 
Of course , the remains of Oliver's wife and daughter were not to be spared either , though they had been most excellent women . 
This was pretty well , I think , for a Protestant Church , which had displaced the Romish Church because people had a right to their own opinions in religious matters . 
However , they carried it with a high hand , and a prayer book was agreed upon , in which the extremest opinions of Archbishop Laud were not forgotten . 
An Act was passed , too , preventing any dissenter from holding any office under any corporation . 
So , the regular clergy in their triumph were soon as merry as the King . 
The army being by this time disbanded , and the King crowned , everything was to go on easily for evermore . 
I must say a word here about the King's family . 
His remaining sister , the PRINCESS HENRIETTA , married the DUKE OF ORLEANS , the brother of LOUIS THE FOURTEENTH , King of France . 
His brother JAMES , DUKE OF YORK , was made High Admiral , and by and by became a Catholic . 
He was a gloomy , sullen , bilious sort of man , with a remarkable partiality for the ugliest women in the country . 
It became important now that the King himself should be married and divers foreign Monarchs , not very particular about the character of their son in law , proposed their daughters to him . 
The King of Spain , on the other hand , offered any one out of a dozen of Princesses , and other hopes of gain . 
But the ready money carried the day , and Catherine came over in state to her merry marriage . 
Another merry lady named MOLL DAVIES , a dancer at the theatre , was afterwards her rival . 
The first DUKE OF ST . 
ALBANS was this orange girl's child . 
In like manner the son of a merry waiting lady , whom the King created DUCHESS OF PORTSMOUTH , became the DUKE OF RICHMOND . 
Upon the whole it is not so bad a thing to be a commoner . 
lords and gentlemen , that he soon got through his hundred thousand pounds , and then , by way of raising a little pocket money , made a merry bargain . 
He sold Dunkirk to the French King for five millions of livres . 
Though he was like his father in none of that father's greater qualities , he was like him in being worthy of no trust . 
When he sent that letter to the Parliament , from Breda , he did expressly promise that all sincere religious opinions should be respected . 
Yet he was no sooner firm in his power than he consented to one of the worst Acts of Parliament ever passed . 
The consequence of this was that some two thousand honest men were taken from their congregations , and reduced to dire poverty and distress . 
This Act alone filled the prisons , which were then most dreadful dungeons , to overflowing . 
The Covenanters in Scotland had already fared no better . 
The MARQUIS OF ARGYLE , relying on the King's honour , had given himself up to him but , he was wealthy , and his enemies wanted his wealth . 
Andrew's , to teach the Scotch how to like bishops . 
After some preliminary hostilities , the said Duke sailed to the coast of Holland with a fleet of ninety eight vessels of war , and four fire ships . 
This engaged with the Dutch fleet , of no fewer than one hundred and thirteen ships . 
In the great battle between the two forces , the Dutch lost eighteen ships , four admirals , and seven thousand men . 
But , the English on shore were in no mood of exultation when they heard the news . 
For , this was the year and the time of the Great Plague in London . 
News was not published at that time as it is now , and some people believed these rumours , and some disbelieved them , and they were soon forgotten . 
Giles's , and that the people were dying in great numbers . 
This soon turned out to be awfully true . 
The roads out of London were choked up by people endeavouring to escape from the infected city , and large sums were paid for any kind of conveyance . 
The disease soon spread so fast , that it was necessary to shut up the houses in which sick people were , and to cut them off from communication with the living . 
In the general fear , children ran away from their parents , and parents from their children . 
Some who were taken ill , died alone , and without any help . 
Some were stabbed or strangled by hired nurses who robbed them of all their money , and stole the very beds on which they lay . 
Some went mad , dropped from the windows , ran through the streets , and in their pain and frenzy flung themselves into the river . 
These were not all the horrors of the time . 
The wicked and dissolute , in wild desperation , sat in the taverns singing roaring songs , and were stricken as they drank , and went out and died . 
The fearful and superstitious persuaded themselves that they saw supernatural sights burning swords in the sky , gigantic arms and darts . 
Others pretended that at nights vast crowds of ghosts walked round and round the dismal pits . 
Great fires were lighted in the streets , in the hope of stopping the infection but there was a plague of rain too , and it beat the fires out . 
The deaths began to decrease , the red crosses slowly to disappear , the fugitives to return , the shops to open , pale frightened faces to be seen in the streets . 
The Plague had been in every part of England , but in close and unwholesome London it had killed one hundred thousand people . 
All this time , the Merry Monarch was as merry as ever , and as worthless as ever . 
All this time , the debauched lords and gentlemen and the shameless ladies danced and gamed and drank , and loved and hated one another , according to their merry ways . 
The fleet had been at sea , and healthy . 
The King of France was now in alliance with the Dutch , though his navy was chiefly employed in looking on while the English and Dutch fought . 
That night was the third of September , one thousand six hundred and sixty six , and that wind fanned the Great Fire of London . 
It broke out at a baker's shop near London Bridge , on the spot on which the Monument now stands as a remembrance of those raging flames . 
It spread and spread , and burned and burned , for three days . 
The summer had been intensely hot and dry , the streets were very narrow , and the houses mostly built of wood and plaster . 
There is no reasonable doubt , however , that the fire was accidental . 
An inscription on the Monument long attributed it to the Catholics but it is removed now , and was always a malicious and stupid untruth . 
Lord Clarendon had , by this time , run as long a course as is usually allotted to the unscrupulous ministers of bad kings . 
He was impeached by his political opponents , but unsuccessfully . 
The King then commanded him to withdraw from England and retire to France , which he did , after defending himself in writing . 
He was no great loss at home , and died abroad some seven years afterwards . 
For all of which , though he had had ten merry heads instead of one , he richly deserved to lose them by the headsman's axe . 
This was WILLIAM OF NASSAU , PRINCE OF ORANGE , son of the last Prince of Orange of the same name , who married the daughter of Charles the First of England . 
He was a young man at this time , only just of age but he was brave , cool , intrepid , and wise . 
, and placed the chief power in the hands of JOHN DE WITT , who educated this young prince . 
Now , the Prince became very popular , and John de Witt's brother CORNELIUS was sentenced to banishment on a false accusation of conspiring to kill him . 
It was full seven years before this war ended in a treaty of peace made at Nimeguen , and its details would occupy a very considerable space . 
So , in point of fact , during a considerable portion of this merry reign , the King of France was the real King of this country . 
through that very William , Prince of Orange . 
He came over to England , saw Mary , the elder daughter of the Duke of York , and married her . 
We shall see by and by what came of that marriage , and why it is never to be forgotten . 
This daughter was a Protestant , but her mother died a Catholic . 
She and her sister ANNE , also a Protestant , were the only survivors of eight children . 
Anne afterwards married GEORGE , PRINCE OF DENMARK , brother to the King of that country . 
, or that he was high spirited and honourable , I will mention here what was done to a member of the House of Commons , SIR JOHN COVENTRY . 
He made a remark in a debate about taxing the theatres , which gave the King offence . 
The King agreed with his illegitimate son , who had been born abroad , and whom he had made DUKE OF MONMOUTH , to take the following merry vengeance . 
To waylay him at night , fifteen armed men to one , and to slit his nose with a penknife . 
Like master , like man . 
Those were merry times indeed . 
The King being but an ill looking fellow , I don't believe a word of this . 
Whether he was flattered , or whether he knew that Buckingham had really set Blood on to murder the Duke , is uncertain . 
Infamously pensioned as he was , the King still wanted money , and consequently was obliged to call Parliaments . 
In this they were seconded by the Protestant Dissenters , though to their own disadvantage since , to exclude Catholics from power , they were even willing to exclude themselves . 
Meantime , the King of France , knowing his merry pensioner well , intrigued with the King's opponents in Parliament , as well as with the King and his friends . 
Titus Oates , being produced by this unlucky Dr . 
This was great good fortune for Titus , as it seemed to confirm him but better still was in store . 
SIR EDMUNDBURY GODFREY , the magistrate who had first examined him , being unexpectedly found dead near Primrose Hill , was confidently believed to have been killed by the Catholics . 
Oates , going into partnership with this new informer , had the audacity to accuse the poor Queen herself of high treason . 
, and that he would kill him with his own hand . 
This banker , being at once tried and executed , Coleman and two others were tried and executed . 
Then , five Jesuits were accused by Oates , Bedloe , and Prance together , and were all found guilty , and executed on the same kind of contradictory and absurd evidence . 
The Queen's physician and three monks were next put on their trial but Oates and Bedloe had for the time gone far enough and these four were acquitted . 
The House of Commons , not satisfied with this as the King hoped , passed a bill to exclude the Duke from ever succeeding to the throne . 
In return , the King dissolved the Parliament . 
He had deserted his old favourite , the Duke of Buckingham , who was now in the opposition . 
To give any sufficient idea of the miseries of Scotland in this merry reign , would occupy a hundred pages . 
Because the people would not have bishops , and were resolved to stand by their solemn League and Covenant , such cruelties were inflicted upon them as make the blood run cold . 
Witnesses were tortured as well as prisoners . 
All the prisons were full all the gibbets were heavy with bodies murder and plunder devastated the whole country . 
In spite of all , the Covenanters were by no means to be dragged into the churches , and persisted in worshipping God as they thought right . 
Archbishop Sharp had ever aided and abetted all these outrages . 
Upon this they cried out that Heaven had delivered him into their hands , and killed him with many wounds . 
If ever a man deserved such a death , I think Archbishop Sharp did . 
Marching with ten thousand men from Edinburgh , he found them , in number four or five thousand , drawn up at Bothwell Bridge , by the Clyde . 
But the Duke of Lauderdale was their bitter foe , and sent Claverhouse to finish them . 
As the Duke of York became more and more unpopular , the Duke of Monmouth became more and more popular . 
It was rejected there , chiefly because the bishops helped the King to get rid of it and the fear of Catholic plots revived again . 
This jail bird having been got out of Newgate by a MRS . 
CELLIER , a Catholic nurse , had turned Catholic himself , and pretended that he knew of a plot among the Presbyterians against the King's life . 
This was very pleasant to the Duke of York , who hated the Presbyterians , who returned the compliment . 
He gave Dangerfield twenty guineas , and sent him to the King his brother . 
There they were , of course for he had put them there himself and so the tub gave the name to the plot . 
But , the nurse was acquitted on her trial , and it came to nothing . 
Lord Ashley , of the Cabal , was now Lord Shaftesbury , and was strong against the succession of the Duke of York . 
So unjustly bitter were they , I grieve to say , that they impeached the venerable Lord Stafford , a Catholic nobleman seventy years old , of a design to kill the King . 
The witnesses were that atrocious Oates and two other birds of the same feather . 
He was found guilty , on evidence quite as foolish as it was false , and was beheaded on Tower Hill . 
After which he scampered home , and the members of Parliament scampered home too , as fast as their legs could carry them . 
The Duke of York , then residing in Scotland , had , under the law which excluded Catholics from public trust , no right whatever to public employment . 
Nevertheless , he was openly employed as the King's representative in Scotland , and there gratified his sullen and cruel nature to his heart's content by directing the dreadful cruelties against the Covenanters . 
As Cameron publicly posted a declaration that the King was a forsworn tyrant , no mercy was shown to his unhappy followers after he was slain in battle . 
He escaped the scaffold , for that time , by getting away , in the disguise of a page , in the train of his daughter , LADY SOPHIA LINDSAY . 
It was absolutely proposed , by certain members of the Scottish Council , that this lady should be whipped through the streets of Edinburgh . 
to remark that Englishmen were not accustomed to treat ladies in that manner . 
In those merry times nothing could equal the brutal servility of the Scottish fawners , but the conduct of similar degraded beings in England . 
The Merry Monarch , having got rid of his Parliament , went to work to make himself despotic , with all speed . 
Rumbold said to them what a capital place this house of his would be from which to shoot at the King , who often passed there going to and fro from Newmarket . 
They liked the idea , and entertained it . 
But it weighed upon his mind that he had brought into their council , Lord Howard who now turned a miserable traitor against a great dislike Lord Russell had always had of him . 
He could not bear the reflection , and destroyed himself before Lord Russell was brought to trial at the Old Bailey . 
Of course , he was found guilty , and was sentenced to be beheaded in Lincoln's Inn fields , not many yards from his own house . 
Hearing the rain fall fast at that time , he calmly said , 'Such a rain to morrow will spoil a great show , which is a dull thing on a rainy day . 
At midnight he went to bed , and slept till four even when his servant called him , he fell asleep again while his clothes were being made ready . 
He rode to the scaffold in his own carriage , attended by two famous clergymen , TILLOTSON and BURNET , and sang a psalm to himself very softly , as he went along . 
He was as quiet and as steady as if he had been going out for an ordinary ride . 
His noble wife was busy for him even then for that true hearted lady printed and widely circulated his last words , of which he had given her a copy . 
They made the blood of all the honest men in England boil . 
Next , came the trial of Algernon Sidney , at which Jeffreys presided , like a great crimson toad , sweltering and swelling with rage . 
'My lord , said the prisoner , composedly holding out his arm , 'feel my pulse , and see if I be disordered . 
I thank Heaven I never was in better temper than I am now . 
Algernon Sidney was executed on Tower Hill , on the seventh of December , one thousand six hundred and eighty three . 
For this , he was banished to the Netherlands but he soon returned and had an interview with his father , unknown to his uncle . 
On Monday , the second of February , one thousand six hundred and eighty five , the merry pensioner and servant of the King of France fell down in a fit of apoplexy . 
By the Wednesday his case was hopeless , and on the Thursday he was told so . 
The Merry Monarch lived through that night , and died before noon on the next day , which was Friday , the sixth . 
Two of the last things he said were of a human sort , and your remembrance will give him the full benefit of them . 
Take back that answer to her . 
And he also said , in reference to Nell Gwyn , 'Do not let poor Nelly starve . 
He died in the fifty fifth year of his age , and the twenty fifth of his reign . 
Before we proceed to its principal events , let us dispose of Titus Oates . 
This fearful sentence was actually inflicted on the rascal . 
Being unable to stand after his first flogging , he was dragged on a sledge from Newgate to Tyburn , and flogged as he was drawn along . 
He was so strong a villain that he did not die under the torture , but lived to be afterwards pardoned and rewarded , though not to be ever believed in any more . 
Dangerfield , the only other one of that crew left alive , was not so fortunate . 
Argyle was the first to act upon this contract . 
However , the boot was not applied he was simply beheaded , and his head was set upon the top of Edinburgh Jail . 
One of those Englishmen who had been assigned to him was that old soldier Rumbold , the master of the Rye House . 
He was sorely wounded , and within a week after Argyle had suffered with great courage , was brought up for trial , lest he should die and disappoint the King . 
Raising some four thousand men by these means , he marched on to Taunton , where there were many Protestant dissenters who were strongly opposed to the Catholics . 
Encouraged by this homage , he proclaimed himself King , and went on to Bridgewater . 
The horsemen were commanded by the same unlucky lord , who was not a brave man . 
He wrote a miserable letter to the King , beseeching and entreating to be allowed to see him . 
When he was taken to London , and conveyed bound into the King's presence , he crawled to him on his knees , and made a most degrading exhibition . 
As James never forgave or relented towards anybody , he was not likely to soften towards the issuer of the Lyme proclamation , so he told the suppliant to prepare for death . 
On the fifteenth of July , one thousand six hundred and eighty five , this unfortunate favourite of the people was brought out to die on Tower Hill . 
The crowd was immense , and the tops of all the houses were covered with gazers . 
The executioner , made nervous by this , and trembling , struck once and merely gashed him in the neck . 
Upon this , the Duke of Monmouth raised his head and looked the man reproachfully in the face . 
Then he struck twice , and then thrice , and then threw down the axe , and cried out in a voice of horror that he could not finish that work . 
The sheriffs , however , threatening him with what should be done to himself if he did not , he took it up again and struck a fourth time and a fifth time . 
Then the wretched head at last fell off , and James , Duke of Monmouth , was dead , in the thirty sixth year of his age . 
He was a showy , graceful man , with many popular qualities , and had found much favour in the open hearts of the English . 
The atrocities , committed by the Government , which followed this Monmouth rebellion , form the blackest and most lamentable page in English history . 
The poor peasants , having been dispersed with great loss , and their leaders having been taken , one would think that the implacable King might have been satisfied . 
The atrocities committed by these demons in human shape are far too horrible to be related here . 
The detestable King informed him , as an acknowledgment of these services , that he was 'very well satisfied with his proceedings . 
The King pleasantly called this 'Jeffreys's campaign . 
The people down in that part of the country remember it to this day as The Bloody Assize . 
It began at Winchester , where a poor deaf old lady , MRS . 
, was charged with having given shelter in her house to two fugitives from Sedgemoor . 
Three times the jury refused to find her guilty , until Jeffreys bullied and frightened them into that false verdict . 
He sentenced her to be burned alive , that very afternoon . 
The clergy of the cathedral and some others interfered in her favour , and she was beheaded within a week . 
As a high mark of his approbation , the King made Jeffreys Lord Chancellor and he then went on to Dorchester , to Exeter , to Taunton , and to Wells . 
It is astonishing , when we read of the enormous injustice and barbarity of this beast , to know that no one struck him dead on the judgment seat . 
It was enough for any man or woman to be accused by an enemy , before Jeffreys , to be found guilty of high treason . 
At Dorchester alone , in the course of a few days , Jeffreys hanged eighty people besides whipping , transporting , imprisoning , and selling as slaves , great numbers . 
He executed , in all , two hundred and fifty , or three hundred . 
These executions took place , among the neighbours and friends of the sentenced , in thirty six towns and villages . 
Their bodies were mangled , steeped in caldrons of boiling pitch and tar , and hung up by the roadsides , in the streets , over the very churches . 
The sight and smell of heads and limbs , the hissing and bubbling of the infernal caldrons , and the tears and terrors of the people , were dreadful beyond all description . 
One rustic , who was forced to steep the remains in the black pot , was ever afterwards called 'Tom Boilman . 
The hangman has ever since been called Jack Ketch , because a man of that name went hanging and hanging , all day long , in the train of Jeffreys . 
You will hear much of the horrors of the great French Revolution . 
Nor was even this all . 
Jeffreys was as fond of money for himself as of misery for others , and he sold pardons wholesale to fill his pockets . 
The King ordered , at one time , a thousand prisoners to be given to certain of his favourites , in order that they might bargain with them for their pardons . 
The young ladies of Taunton who had presented the Bible , were bestowed upon the maids of honour at court and those precious ladies made very hard bargains with them indeed . 
When The Bloody Assize was at its most dismal height , the King was diverting himself with horse races in the very place where Mrs. Lisle had been executed . 
And on the very same day , a worthy widow , named ELIZABETH GAUNT , was burned alive at Tyburn , for having sheltered a wretch who himself gave evidence against her . 
So , he went to work to change the religion of the country with all possible speed and what he did was this . 
He first of all tried to get rid of what was called the Test Act which prevented the Catholics from holding public employments by his own power of dispensing with the penalties . 
He revived the hated Ecclesiastical Commission , to get rid of COMPTON , Bishop of London , who manfully opposed him . 
He flourished Father Petre before the eyes of the people on all possible occasions . 
He favoured the establishment of convents in several parts of London . 
He was delighted to have the streets , and even the court itself , filled with Monks and Friars in the habits of their orders . 
He constantly endeavoured to make Catholics of the Protestants about him . 
He held private interviews , which he called 'closetings , with those Members of Parliament who held offices , to persuade them to consent to the design he had in view . 
When they did not consent , they were removed , or resigned of themselves , and their places were given to Catholics . 
He displaced Protestant officers from the army , by every means in his power , and got Catholics into their places too . 
with the Lord Lieutenants of counties . 
He dismissed his own brother in law from his Council because he was a Protestant , and made a Privy Councillor of the before mentioned Father Petre . 
A spirit began to arise in the country , which the besotted blunderer little expected . 
He first found it out in the University of Cambridge . 
Having made a Catholic a dean at Oxford without any opposition , he tried to make a monk a master of arts at Cambridge which attempt the University resisted , and defeated him . 
He then went back to his favourite Oxford . 
On the death of the President of Magdalen College , he commanded that there should be elected to succeed him , one MR . 
ANTHONY FARMER , whose only recommendation was , that he was of the King's religion . 
The University plucked up courage at last , and refused . 
The King substituted another man , and it still refused , resolving to stand by its own election of a MR . 
The Archbishop himself wrote out the petition , and six bishops went into the King's bedchamber the same night to present it , to his infinite astonishment . 
Next day was the Sunday fixed for the reading , and it was only read by two hundred clergymen out of ten thousand . 
When they got to the Tower , the officers and soldiers on guard besought them for their blessing . 
While they were confined there , the soldiers every day drank to their release with loud shouts . 
knew that they would rather starve than yield to the King's brewer , who was one of them , and wanted a verdict for his customer . 
Between the petition and the trial , the Queen had given birth to a son , which Father Petre rather thought was owing to Saint Winifred . 
His preparations were extraordinarily vigorous , and his mind was resolved . 
For a fortnight after the Prince was ready to sail for England , a great wind from the west prevented the departure of his fleet . 
Even when the wind lulled , and it did sail , it was dispersed by a storm , and was obliged to put back to refit . 
On Monday , the fifth , it anchored at Torbay in Devonshire , and the Prince , with a splendid retinue of officers and men , marched into Exeter . 
But the people in that western part of the country had suffered so much in The Bloody Assize , that they had lost heart . 
Few people joined him and he began to think of returning , and publishing the invitation he had received from those lords , as his justification for having come at all . 
The young Prince was sent to Portsmouth , Father Petre went off like a shot to France , and there was a general and swift dispersal of all the priests and friars . 
One after another , the King's most important officers and friends deserted him and went over to the Prince . 
This was on the night of the ninth of December . 
and crossed the river in a small boat sinking the great seal of England by the way . 
Horses having been provided , he rode , accompanied by SIR EDWARD HALES , to Feversham , where he embarked in a Custom House Hoy . 
However , there was nothing for it but to have him brought back , with some state in the way of Life Guards , to Whitehall . 
And as soon as he got there , in his infatuation , he heard mass , and set a Jesuit to say grace at his public dinner . 
The face was in a sailor's dress , but he knew it to be the face of that accursed judge , and he seized him . 
The people , to their lasting honour , did not tear him to pieces . 
Their bewilderment continuing , the people now lighted bonfires and made rejoicings , as if they had any reason to be glad to have the King back again . 
He said , Ham was a cold , damp place , and he would rather go to Rochester . 
He thought himself very cunning in this , as he meant to escape from Rochester to France . 
The Prince of Orange and his friends knew that , perfectly well , and desired nothing more . 
There had been a council in his absence , of the lords , and the authorities of London . 
That if they had none , the Princess Anne and her children should succeed that if she had none , the heirs of the Prince of Orange should succeed . 
On the thirteenth of January , one thousand six hundred and eighty nine , the Prince and Princess , sitting on a throne in Whitehall , bound themselves to these conditions . 
The Protestant religion was established in England , and England's great and glorious Revolution was complete . 
CHAPTER XXXVII I HAVE now arrived at the close of my little history . 
The events which succeeded the famous Revolution of one thousand six hundred and eighty eight , would neither be easily related nor easily understood in such a book as this . 
William and Mary reigned together , five years . 
After the death of his good wife , William occupied the throne , alone , for seven years longer . 
to cause William to be assassinated , and to regain his lost dominions . 
James's son was declared , by the French King , the rightful King of England and was called in France THE CHEVALIER SAINT GEORGE , and in England THE PRETENDER . 
King William died on Sunday , the seventh of March , one thousand seven hundred and two , of the consequences of an accident occasioned by his horse stumbling with him . 
He was always a brave , patriotic Prince , and a man of remarkable abilities . 
His manner was cold , and he made but few friends but he had truly loved his queen . 
When he was dead , a lock of her hair , in a ring , was found tied with a black ribbon round his left arm . 
He was succeeded by the PRINCESS ANNE , a popular Queen , who reigned twelve years . 
Then , from the year one thousand seven hundred and fourteen to the year one thousand , eight hundred and thirty , reigned the four GEORGES . 
It was in the reign of George the Second , one thousand seven hundred and forty five , that the Pretender did his last mischief , and made his last appearance . 
Being an old man by that time , he and the Jacobites as his friends were called put forward his son , CHARLES EDWARD , known as the young Chevalier . 
A number of charming stories and delightful songs arose out of the Jacobite feelings , and belong to the Jacobite times . 
Otherwise I think the Stuarts were a public nuisance altogether . 
It was in the reign of George the Third that England lost North America , by persisting in taxing her without her own consent . 
That immense country , made independent under WASHINGTON , and left to itself , became the United States one of the greatest nations of the earth . 
Between you and me , England has rather lost ground in this respect since the days of Oliver Cromwell . 
WILLIAM THE FOURTH succeeded George the Fourth , in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty , and reigned seven years . 
She was married to PRINCE ALBERT of Saxe Gotha on the tenth of February , one thousand eight hundred and forty . 
She is very good , and much beloved . 
