Sketches by Boz by Charles Dickens . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk SKETCHES BY BOZ OUR PARISH CHAPTER I THE BEADLE . 
His taxes are in arrear , quarter day passes by , another quarter day arrives he can procure no more quarter for himself , and is summoned by the parish . 
His goods are distrained , his children are crying with cold and hunger , and the very bed on which his sick wife is lying , is dragged from beneath her . 
What can he do ? To whom is he to apply for relief ? To private charity ? To benevolent individuals ? Certainly not there is his parish . 
There are the parish vestry , the parish infirmary , the parish surgeon , the parish officers , the parish beadle . 
Excellent institutions , and gentle , kind hearted men . 
The woman dies she is buried by the parish . 
The children have no protector they are taken care of by the parish . 
The parish beadle is one of the most , perhaps THE most , important member of the local administration . 
But his power is very great , notwithstanding and the dignity of his office is never impaired by the absence of efforts on his part to maintain it . 
The beadle of our parish is a splendid fellow . 
came to the determination of doing . 
A miserable looking woman is called into the boardroom , and represents a case of extreme destitution , affecting herself a widow , with six small children . 
'Where do you live ? inquires one of the overseers . 
As to taking out a summons , it's quite a hopeless case if Simmons attends it , on behalf of the parish . 
afterwards told an intimate friend , confidentially , was almost equal to one of Mr. Hobler's . 
Observe the generalship of the beadle . 
His involuntary look of horror is instantly changed into one of perfect indifference , as if he were the only person present who had not heard the noise . 
We never saw a parish engine at a regular fire but once . 
It came up in gallant style three miles and a half an hour , at least there was a capital supply of water , and it was first on the spot . 
Our schoolmaster is just the very reverse of this amiable official . 
Thus unexpectedly reduced to the necessity of providing for himself , he procured a situation in a public office . 
He speculated again and won but never got his money . 
His talents were great his disposition , easy , generous and liberal . 
His friends profited by the one , and abused the other . 
He had children whom he loved , and a wife on whom he doted . 
The former turned their backs on him the latter died broken hearted . 
It was at this period that he applied for parochial relief . 
Some kind hearted man who had known him in happier times , chanced to be churchwarden that year , and through his interest he was appointed to his present situation . 
He is an old man now . 
Time and misfortune have mercifully been permitted to impair his memory , and use has habituated him to his present condition . 
THE HALF PAY CAPTAIN We commenced our last chapter with the beadle of our parish , because we are deeply sensible of the importance and dignity of his office . 
We will begin the present , with the clergyman . 
He was about five and twenty when he first came to astonish the parishioners . 
, and had a deep sepulchral voice of unusual solemnity . 
If his manner in the pulpit had created an impression in his favour , the sensation was increased tenfold , by his appearance in private circles . 
He got up a subscription for her the woman's fortune was made . 
He spoke for one hour and twenty five minutes , at an anti slavery meeting at the Goat and Boots the enthusiasm was at its height . 
A proposal was set on foot for presenting the curate with a piece of plate , as a mark of esteem for his valuable services rendered to the parish . 
The list of subscriptions was filled up in no time the contest was , not who should escape the contribution , but who should be the foremost to subscribe . 
One would have supposed that , by this time , the theme of universal admiration was lifted to the very pinnacle of popularity . 
The curate began to cough four fits of coughing one morning between the Litany and the Epistle , and five in the afternoon service . 
Here was a discovery the curate was consumptive . 
How interestingly melancholy ! If the young ladies were energetic before , their sympathy and solicitude now knew no bounds . 
Such a man as the curate such a dear such a perfect love to be consumptive ! It was too much . 
About this period , a change came over the spirit of the parish . 
This circumstance gave rise to counter sensation the first and the arrival of his successor occasioned counter sensation the second . 
The inconstancy of public opinion is proverbial the congregation migrated one by one . 
The curate coughed till he was black in the face it was in vain . 
He respired with difficulty it was equally ineffectual in awakening sympathy . 
Our parish is a suburban one , and the old lady lives in a neat row of houses in the most airy and pleasant part of it . 
She has but few relations , and they are scattered about in different parts of the country , and she seldom sees them . 
Her name always heads the list of any benevolent subscriptions , and hers are always the most liberal donations to the Winter Coal and Soup Distribution Society . 
Thus , with the annual variation of a trip to some quiet place on the sea coast , passes the old lady's life . 
It has rolled on in the same unvarying and benevolent course for many years now , and must at no distant period be brought to its final close . 
She looks forward to its termination , with calmness and without apprehension . 
She has everything to hope and nothing to fear . 
A very different personage , but one who has rendered himself very conspicuous in our parish , is one of the old lady's next door neighbours . 
He is an old naval officer on half pay , and his bluff and unceremonious behaviour disturbs the old lady's domestic economy , not a little . 
But all this is nothing to his seditious conduct in public life . 
The four Miss Willises , then , settled in our parish thirteen years ago . 
At last , the Miss Willises moved in and then the 'calling' began . 
The house was the perfection of neatness so were the four Miss Willises . 
Everything was formal , stiff , and cold so were the four Miss Willises . 
Not a single chair of the whole set was ever seen out of its place not a single Miss Willis of the whole four was ever seen out of hers . 
There they always sat , in the same places , doing precisely the same things at the same hour . 
The eldest Miss Willis used to knit , the second to draw , the two others to play duets on the piano . 
They seemed to have no separate existence , but to have made up their minds just to winter through life together . 
The eldest Miss Willis grew bilious the four Miss Willises grew bilious immediately . 
The eldest Miss Willis grew ill tempered and religious the four Miss Willises were ill tempered and religious directly . 
Three years passed over in this way , when an unlooked for and extraordinary phenomenon occurred . 
The Miss Willises showed symptoms of summer , the frost gradually broke up a complete thaw took place . 
They were so completely identified , the one with the other , that the curiosity of the whole row even of the old lady herself was roused almost beyond endurance . 
The subject was discussed at every little card table and tea drinking . 
The intelligence spread rapidly from house to house . 
It was quite clear that the eventful morning had at length arrived the whole row stationed themselves behind their first and second floor blinds , and waited the result in breathless expectation . 
At last the Miss Willises' door opened the door of the first glass coach did the same . 
The street door opened again the excitement of the whole row increased Mr. Robinson and the eldest Miss Willis . 
'Did you ever , dear ! responded the young lady at No. to the young lady at No. . 
'It's too ridiculous ! exclaimed a spinster of an UNcertain age , at No. , joining in the conversation . 
Robinson's compliments , and she's in very good spirits , and doesn't find herself any worse . 
Then we fancied that Dr . 
Dawson , the surgeon , c . 
CHAPTER IV THE ELECTION FOR BEADLE A great event has recently occurred in our parish . 
A contest of paramount interest has just terminated a parochial convulsion has taken place . 
It has been succeeded by a glorious triumph , which the country or at least the parish it is all the same will long remember . 
We have had an election an election for beadle . 
The supporters of the old beadle system have been defeated in their stronghold , and the advocates of the great new beadle principles have achieved a proud victory . 
The leader of the official party the steady advocate of the churchwardens , and the unflinching supporter of the overseers is an old gentleman who lives in our row . 
He is deeply impressed with the importance of our parish business , and prides himself , not a little , on his style of addressing the parishioners in vestry assembled . 
His views are rather confined than extensive his principles more narrow than liberal . 
His great opponent in public life is Captain Purday , the old naval officer on half pay , to whom we have already introduced our readers . 
The motion was lost by a majority of two and then the captain , who never allows himself to be defeated , moved for a committee of inquiry into the whole subject . 
So , the motion was dropped , and everybody looked extremely important , and seemed quite satisfied with the meritorious nature of the whole proceeding . 
This was the state of affairs in our parish a week or two since , when Simmons , the beadle , suddenly died . 
The lamented deceased had over exerted himself , a day or two previously , in conveying an aged female , highly intoxicated , to the strong room of the work house . 
Five small children ! 'Hopkins for Beadle . 
Seven small children ! ! 'Timkins for Beadle . 
, increased the general prepossession in his favour . 
The other candidates , Bung alone excepted , resigned in despair . 
The day of election was fixed and the canvass proceeded with briskness and perseverance on both sides . 
The members of the vestry could not be supposed to escape the contagious excitement inseparable from the occasion . 
This was enough for the captain . 
The day of election arrived . 
It was no longer an individual struggle , but a party contest between the ins and outs . 
The appearance of the churchwardens and overseers , and the ex churchwardens and ex overseers , with Spruggins in the rear , excited general attention . 
His opponent appeared in a cast off coat of the captain's a blue coat with bright buttons white trousers , and that description of shoes familiarly known by the appellation of 'high lows . 
The ex churchwarden rose to propose Thomas Spruggins for beadle . 
He had known him long . 
He had had his eye upon him closely for years he had watched him with twofold vigilance for months . 
A man with a larger family he had never known . 
Such a man he now proposed . 
No ! He wished to have everything comfortable and pleasant , and therefore , he would say nothing about him . 
The captain replied in a similar parliamentary style . 
He would not say , he was astonished at the speech they had just heard he would not say , he was disgusted . 
He would not ask what such men deserved . 
He would not allude to the unfortunate man who had been proposed he would not say , as the vestry's tool , but as Beadle . 
He would not advert to that individual's family he would not say , that nine children , twins , and a wife , were very bad examples for pauper imitation . 
He would not advert in detail to the qualifications of Bung . 
The man stood before him , and he would not say in his presence , what he might be disposed to say of him , if he were absent . 
Bung was years of age . 
Spruggins of whom he wished to speak with all possible respect was . 
The captain's arguments , too , had produced considerable effect the attempted influence of the vestry produced a greater . 
A threat of exclusive dealing was clearly established against the vestry clerk a case of heartless and profligate atrocity . 
This was sufficient the stream had been turning previously , and the impulse thus administered directed its final course . 
The Bung party ordered one shilling's worth of muffins weekly for the remainder of the old woman's natural life the parishioners were loud in their exclamations and the fate of Spruggins was sealed . 
The majority attained by Bung on the gross poll was four hundred and twenty eight , and the cause of the parishioners triumphed . 
Chance threw the man in our way a short time since . 
with the power some men seem to have , not only of sympathising with , but to all appearance of understanding feelings to which they themselves are entire strangers . 
I never liked it , God knows I always looked out for something else , and the moment I got other work to do , I left it . 
I remember the very first place I was put in possession of , was a gentleman's house in this parish here , that everybody would suppose couldn't help having money if he tried . 
Never mind , says Fixem , just you tell him there's a gentleman here , as wants to speak to him partickler . 
Who the devil are you , and how dare you walk into a gentleman's house without leave ? says the master , as fierce as a bull in fits . 
Oh , says the other , quite down on him directly , How IS Thompson ? says he Pray sit down , Mr. Smith John , leave the room . 
Hundred and fifty pounds , I see , said the gentleman at last . 
Hundred and fifty pound , said Fixem , besides cost of levy , sheriff's poundage , and all other incidental expenses . 
Um , says the gentleman , I shan't be able to settle this before to morrow afternoon . 
Very sorry but I shall be obliged to leave my man here till then , replies Fixem , pretending to look very miserable over it . 
came running down stairs , as if he was in great anxiety . 
Bung , says he , pretending to be in a consuming passion . 
Sir , says I. Why the devil an't you looking after that plate ? I was just going to send him for a coach for me , says the other gentleman . 
Bung , you scoundrel , go and count those forks in the breakfast parlour instantly . 
You may be sure I went laughing pretty hearty when I found it was all right . 
ever got in that line . 
There was a little piece of enclosed dust in front of the house , with a cinder path leading up to the door , and an open rain water butt on one side . 
A dirty striped curtain , on a very slack string , hung in the window , and a little triangular bit of broken looking glass rested on the sill inside . 
There was an old sack , by way of rug , before the fireplace , and four or five children were grovelling about , among the sand on the floor . 
They sent the sick couch for the old 'ooman , and Simmons took the children away at night . 
The old 'ooman went into the infirmary , and very soon died . 
The children are all in the house to this day , and very comfortable they are in comparison . 
As to the mother , there was no taming her at all . 
'Now this was bad enough , resumed Mr. Bung , taking a half step towards the door , as if to intimate that he had nearly concluded . 
It doesn't matter where it was exactly indeed , I'd rather not say , but it was the same sort o' job . 
Do you think they can't settle ? says I , quite anxiously for I liked the looks of them children . 
What is the matter , gentlemen ? says she , in a surprisin' steady voice . 
IS this an execution ? It is , mum , says Fixem . 
The lady looked at him as steady as ever she didn't seem to have understood him . 
'The lady's lip trembled as she took the printed paper . 
She cast her eye over it , and old Fixem began to explain the form , but saw she wasn't reading it , plain enough , poor thing . 
Oh , my God ! says she , suddenly a bursting out crying , letting the warrant fall , and hiding her face in her hands . 
Now , dear ma , says the young lady , you know how much you have borne . 
I secreted just now , she says , the only trinket I have left in the world here it is . 
So she lays down on the table a little miniature mounted in gold . 
to have seen in time . 
I saw , sir , that his wife was wasting away , beneath cares of which she never complained , and griefs she never told . 
I saw that she was dying before his eyes I knew that one exertion from him might have saved her , but he never made it . 
I don't blame him I don't think he COULD rouse himself . 
She had so long anticipated all his wishes , and acted for him , that he was a lost man when left to himself . 
The money WAS raised and the execution was paid out . 
The whole family crowded into the room where I was , when the money arrived . 
But if ever I saw death in a woman's face , I saw it in hers that night . 
'I was right , sir , continued Mr. Bung , hurriedly passing his coat sleeve over his face 'the family grew more prosperous , and good fortune arrived . 
But it was too late . 
CHAPTER VI THE LADIES' SOCIETIES Our Parish is very prolific in ladies' charitable institutions . 
taught , and exercised , and examined , and re examined the unfortunate children , until the boys grew pale , and the girls consumptive with study and fatigue . 
The three Miss Browns stood it out very well , because they relieved each other but the children , having no relief at all , exhibited decided symptoms of weariness and care . 
The opportunity was not long wanting . 
If any doubt had for a moment existed , as to whom the allusion was intended to apply , it was at once removed . 
A little learning is a dangerous thing , but a little patronage is more so the three Miss Browns appointed all the old maids , and carefully excluded the young ones . 
The three Miss Browns , and their party , saw the approaching danger , and endeavoured to avert it by ridicule and sarcasm . 
Neither the old men nor the old women could read their books , now they had got them , said the three Miss Browns . 
Never mind they could learn , replied Mrs. Johnson Parker . 
The children couldn't read either , suggested the three Miss Browns . 
No matter they could be taught , retorted Mrs. Johnson Parker . 
A balance of parties took place . 
The Miss Browns publicly examined popular feeling inclined to the child's examination society . 
The Miss Johnson Parkers publicly distributed a reaction took place in favour of the prayer book distribution . 
A feather would have turned the scale , and a feather did turn it . 
A missionary returned from the West Indies he was to be presented to the Dissenters' Missionary Society on his marriage with a wealthy widow . 
Overtures were made to the Dissenters by the Johnson Parkers . 
Their object was the same , and why not have a joint meeting of the two societies ? The proposition was accepted . 
The meeting was duly heralded by public announcement , and the room was crowded to suffocation . 
The Missionary appeared on the platform he was hailed with enthusiasm . 
He repeated a dialogue he had heard between two negroes , behind a hedge , on the subject of distribution societies the approbation was tumultuous . 
He gave an imitation of the two negroes in broken English the roof was rent with applause . 
a daily increase in the popularity of the distribution society , and an increase of popularity , which the feeble and impotent opposition of the examination party , has only tended to augment . 
The consequence is , that the monthly loan society flourishes , and invests its members with a most enviable amount of bustling patronage . 
And here again the services of the honorary members are called into requisition , and most cheerfully conceded . 
The doors were thrown open , and the Misses Brown and Co . 
were discovered in plain white muslin dresses , and caps of the same the child's examination uniform . 
The room filled the greetings of the company were loud and cordial . 
The distributionists trembled , for their popularity was at stake . 
The eldest boy fell forward , and delivered a propitiatory address from behind his collar . 
It was from the pen of Mr. Henry Brown the applause was universal , and the Johnson Parkers were aghast . 
The examination proceeded with success , and terminated in triumph . 
The child's examination society gained a momentary victory , and the Johnson Parkers retreated in despair . 
What could be done ? Another meeting ! Alas ! who was to attend it ? The Missionary would not do twice and the slaves were emancipated . 
A bold step must be taken . 
The parish must be astonished in some way or other but no one was able to suggest what the step should be . 
At length , a very old lady was heard to mumble , in indistinct tones , 'Exeter Hall . 
A sudden light broke in upon the meeting . 
The application was successful , the meeting was held the orator came . 
He talked of green isles other shores vast Atlantic bosom of the deep Christian charity blood and extermination mercy in hearts arms in hands altars and homes household gods . 
He wiped his eyes , he blew his nose , and he quoted Latin . 
The effect was tremendous the Latin was a decided hit . 
Nobody knew exactly what it was about , but everybody knew it must be affecting , because even the orator was overcome . 
The popularity of the distribution society among the ladies of our parish is unprecedented and the child's examination is going fast to decay . 
The various expressions of the human countenance afford a beautiful and interesting study but there is something in the physiognomy of street door knockers , almost as characteristic , and nearly as infallible . 
A little trouble and attention , however , enabled us to overcome this difficulty , and to reconcile the new system to our favourite theory . 
You will invariably find this knocker on the doors of cold and formal people , who always ask you why you DON'T come , and never say DO . 
Everybody knows the brass knocker is common to suburban villas , and extensive boarding schools and having noticed this genus we have recapitulated all the most prominent and strongly defined species . 
Some phrenologists affirm , that the agitation of a man's brain by different passions , produces corresponding developments in the form of his skull . 
This was a calamity we had never anticipated . 
The bare idea of anybody being able to exist without a knocker , appeared so wild and visionary , that it had never for one instant entered our imagination . 
We sauntered moodily from the spot , and bent our steps towards Eaton square , then just building . 
What was our astonishment and indignation to find that bells were fast becoming the rule , and knockers the exception ! Our theory trembled beneath the shock . 
The house adjoining ours on the left hand was uninhabited , and we had , therefore , plenty of leisure to observe our next door neighbours on the other side . 
There was a little red and black carpet in the drawing room , with a border of flooring all the way round a few stained chairs and a pembroke table . 
This was the room destined for the reception of the single gentleman during the day , and a little back room on the same floor was assigned as his sleeping apartment by night . 
The bill had not been long in the window , when a stout , good humoured looking gentleman , of about five and thirty , appeared as a candidate for the tenancy . 
Terms were soon arranged , for the bill was taken down immediately after his first visit . 
In a day or two the single gentleman came in , and shortly afterwards his real character came out . 
The next night passed off very well , everybody being delighted with the change but on the next , the noises were renewed with greater spirit than ever . 
The next applicant for the vacant first floor , was of a very different character from the troublesome single gentleman who had just quitted it . 
He was a tall , thin , young gentleman , with a profusion of brown hair , reddish whiskers , and very slightly developed moustaches . 
He wore a braided surtout , with frogs behind , light grey trousers , and wash leather gloves , and had altogether rather a military appearance . 
So unlike the roystering single gentleman . 
Our next door neighbour was now perfectly happy . 
He had got a lodger at last , of just his own way of thinking a serious , well disposed man , who abhorred gaiety , and loved retirement . 
The serious man arrived , and his luggage was to arrive from the country next morning . 
He WAS called , and did not answer he was called again , but there was no reply . 
Our next door neighbour became alarmed , and burst the door open . 
The serious man had left the house mysteriously carrying with him the shirt , the prayer book , a teaspoon , and the bedclothes . 
The bill was soon removed . 
The new lodgers at first attracted our curiosity , and afterwards excited our interest . 
They were a young lad of eighteen or nineteen , and his mother , a lady of about fifty , or it might be less . 
The mother wore a widow's weeds , and the boy was also clothed in deep mourning . 
They were poor very poor for their only means of support arose from the pittance the boy earned , by copying writings , and translating for booksellers . 
They were proud under their reverses , and above revealing their wants and privations to strangers . 
How bitter those privations were , and how hard the boy worked to remove them , no one ever knew but themselves . 
Actuated , we hope , by a higher feeling than mere curiosity , we contrived to establish , first an acquaintance , and then a close intimacy , with the poor strangers . 
Our worst fears were realised the boy was sinking fast . 
A few shillings now and then , were all she could earn . 
The boy worked steadily on dying by minutes , but never once giving utterance to complaint or murmur . 
One beautiful autumn evening we went to pay our customary visit to the invalid . 
His little remaining strength had been decreasing rapidly for two or three days preceding , and he was lying on the sofa at the open window , gazing at the setting sun . 
His mother had been reading the Bible to him , for she closed the book as we entered , and advanced to meet us . 
'I was telling William , she said , 'that we must manage to take him into the country somewhere , so that he may get quite well . 
He is not ill , you know , but he is not very strong , and has exerted himself too much lately . 
We sat down by the head of the sofa , but said nothing , for we saw the breath of life was passing gently but rapidly from the young form before us . 
At every respiration , his heart beat more slowly . 
The boy placed one hand in ours , grasped his mother's arm with the other , drew her hastily towards him , and fervently kissed her cheek . 
He sunk back upon his pillow , and looked long and earnestly in his mother's face . 
The coach stands in the larger thoroughfares are deserted the night houses are closed and the chosen promenades of profligate misery are empty . 
With these few exceptions , the streets present no signs of life , nor the houses of habitation . 
Another hour passes away , and the day begins in good earnest . 
The shops are now completely opened , and apprentices and shopmen are busily engaged in cleaning and decking the windows for the day . 
during the last twenty years , but speaking to no one . 
Eleven o'clock , and a new set of people fill the streets . 
There was another , but it has ceased . 
A brutal laugh at her weak voice is all she has gained . 
The weak tremulous voice tells a fearful tale of want and famishing and the feeble singer of this roaring song may turn away , only to die of cold and hunger . 
The more musical portion of the play going community betake themselves to some harmonic meeting . 
As a matter of curiosity let us follow them thither for a few moments . 
The others are seated on either side of him the stout man with the small voice , and the thin faced dark man in black . 
Scenes like these are continued until three or four o'clock in the morning and even when they close , fresh ones open to the inquisitive novice . 
Paul's Churchyard , and back into the bargain , without deriving some amusement we had almost said instruction from his perambulation . 
And yet there are such beings we meet them every day . 
These men linger listlessly past , looking as happy and animated as a policeman on duty . 
Nothing seems to make an impression on their minds nothing short of being knocked down by a porter , or run over by a cab , will disturb their equanimity . 
One of our principal amusements is to watch the gradual progress the rise or fall of particular shops . 
We have formed an intimate acquaintance with several , in different parts of town , and are perfectly acquainted with their whole history . 
We could name off hand , twenty at least , which we are quite sure have paid no taxes for the last six years . 
They are never inhabited for more than two months consecutively , and , we verily believe , have witnessed every retail trade in the directory . 
It is on the Surrey side of the water a little distance beyond the Marsh gate . 
Numerous complaints were made , and several small basins of water discharged over the offenders , but without effect . 
We deserted our friend for a few weeks . 
It opened in due course there was the name of the proprietor 'and Co . 
in gilt letters , almost too dazzling to look at . 
Such ribbons and shawls ! and two such elegant young men behind the counter , each in a clean collar and white neckcloth , like the lover in a farce . 
We saw all this with sorrow we felt a fatal presentiment that the shop was doomed and so it was . 
Its decay was slow , but sure . 
The shop became dirty , broken panes of glass remained unmended , and the stock disappeared piecemeal . 
At last the company's man came to cut off the water , and then the linen draper cut off himself , leaving the landlord his compliments and the key . 
The next occupant was a fancy stationer . 
The shop was more modestly painted than before , still it was neat but somehow we always thought , as we passed , that it looked like a poor and struggling concern . 
We wished the man well , but we trembled for his success . 
He was a widower evidently , and had employment elsewhere , for he passed us every morning on his road to the city . 
The business was carried on by his eldest daughter . 
Poor girl ! she needed no assistance . 
But we are forgetting the shop . 
Well , we continued to watch it , and every day showed too clearly the increasing poverty of its inmates . 
The landlord had suffered from the extravagance of his last tenant , and he had no compassion for the struggles of his successor he put in an execution . 
As we passed one morning , the broker's men were removing the little furniture there was in the house , and a newly posted bill informed us it was again 'To Let . 
What became of the last tenant we never could learn we believe the girl is past all suffering , and beyond all sorrow . 
God help her ! We hope she is . 
We were somewhat curious to ascertain what would be the next stage for that the place had no chance of succeeding now , was perfectly clear . 
The bill was soon taken down , and some alterations were being made in the interior of the shop . 
We were in a fever of expectation we exhausted conjecture we imagined all possible trades , none of which were perfectly reconcilable with our idea of the gradual decay of the tenement . 
It opened , and we wondered why we had not guessed at the real state of the case before . 
The tobacconist remained in possession longer than any tenant within our recollection . 
He was a red faced , impudent , good for nothing dog , evidently accustomed to take things as they came , and to make the best of a bad job . 
He sold as many cigars as he could , and smoked the rest . 
From this period , the two little dens have undergone innumerable changes . 
The tobacconist was succeeded by a theatrical hair dresser , who ornamented the window with a great variety of 'characters , and terrific combats . 
The bonnet shape maker gave place to a greengrocer , and the histrionic barber was succeeded , in his turn , by a tailor . 
So numerous have been the changes , that we have of late done little more than mark the peculiar but certain indications of a house being poorly inhabited . 
It has been progressing by almost imperceptible degrees . 
The occupiers of the shops have gradually given up room after room , until they have only reserved the little parlour for themselves . 
When they had emptied their waggons , they again returned for a fresh supply and this trade was continued throughout the year . 
The tailor displayed in his window a Lilliputian pair of leather gaiters , and a diminutive round frock , while each doorpost was appropriately garnished with a model of a coal sack . 
But the choicest spot in all Scotland yard was the old public house in the corner . 
He said nothing not he but if the Lord Mayor didn't fall a victim to popular indignation , why he would be rather astonished that was all . 
They did wait barge after barge arrived , and still no tidings of the assassination of the Lord Mayor . 
The first stone was laid it was done by a Duke the King's brother . 
Years passed away , and the bridge was opened by the King himself . 
A result so different from that which they had anticipated from this first improvement , produced its full effect upon the inhabitants of Scotland yard . 
One of the eating house keepers began to court public opinion , and to look for customers among a new class of people . 
Improvement began to march with rapid strides to the very threshold of Scotland yard . 
A new market sprung up at Hungerford , and the Police Commissioners established their office in Whitehall place . 
The traffic in Scotland yard increased fresh Members were added to the House of Commons , the Metropolitan Representatives found it a near cut , and many other foot passengers followed their example . 
We marked the advance of civilisation , and beheld it with a sigh . 
The eating house keeper who manfully resisted the innovation of table cloths , was losing ground every day , as his opponent gained it , and a deadly feud sprung up between them . 
The genteel one no longer took his evening's pint in Scotland yard , but drank gin and water at a 'parlour' in Parliament street . 
The fruit pie maker still continued to visit the old room , but he took to smoking cigars , and began to call himself a pastrycook , and to read the papers . 
The old heavers still assembled round the ancient fireplace , but their talk was mournful and the loud song and the joyous shout were heard no more . 
The tailor exhibits in his window the pattern of a foreign looking brown surtout , with silk buttons , a fur collar , and fur cuffs . 
in the act of sitting on the shop board in the same uniform . 
The dress maker employs a young lady who wears pockets in her apron and the tailor informs the public that gentlemen may have their own materials made up . 
Amidst all this change , and restlessness , and innovation , there remains but one old man , who seems to mourn the downfall of this ancient place . 
He is the presiding genius of Scotland yard . 
CHAPTER V SEVEN DIALS We have always been of opinion that if Tom King and the Frenchman had not immortalised Seven Dials , Seven Dials would have immortalised itself . 
Tom King's education had been neglected in his infancy , and as he couldn't understand half the man said , he took it for granted he was talking French . 
'Vy don't you pitch into her , Sarah ? exclaims one half dressed matron , by way of encouragement . 
, 'What do you mean by hussies ? reiterates the champion . 
'Niver mind , replies the opposition expressively , 'niver mind YOU go home , and , ven you're quite sober , mend your stockings . 
The scuffle became general , and terminates , in minor play bill phraseology , with 'arrival of the policemen , interior of the station house , and impressive DENOUEMENT . 
It is odd enough that one class of men in London appear to have no enjoyment beyond leaning against posts . 
We never saw a regular bricklayer's labourer take any other recreation , fighting excepted . 
Giles's in the evening of a week day , there they are in their fustian dresses , spotted with brick dust and whitewash , leaning against posts . 
Walk through Seven Dials on Sunday morning there they are again , drab or light corduroy trousers , Blucher boots , blue coats , and great yellow waistcoats , leaning against posts . 
If the external appearance of the houses , or a glance at their inhabitants , present but few attractions , a closer acquaintance with either is little calculated to alter one's first impression . 
Then there is an Irish labourer and HIS family in the back kitchen , and a jobbing man carpet beater and so forth with HIS family in the front one . 
Animosities spring up between floor and floor the very cellar asserts his equality . 
Mrs. A. 'smacks' Mrs. B. 's child for 'making faces . 
Mrs. B. forthwith throws cold water over Mrs. A. 's child for 'calling names . 
The husbands are embroiled the quarrel becomes general an assault is the consequence , and a police officer the result . 
CHAPTER VI MEDITATIONS IN MONMOUTH STREET We have always entertained a particular attachment towards Monmouth street , as the only true and real emporium for second hand wearing apparel . 
Monmouth street is venerable from its antiquity , and respectable from its usefulness . 
We have hinted at the antiquity of our favourite spot . 
'A Monmouth street laced coat' was a by word a century ago and still we find Monmouth street the same . 
The idea seemed a fantastic one , and we looked at the clothes again with a firm determination not to be easily led away . 
No , we were right the more we looked , the more we were convinced of the accuracy of our previous impression . 
There was the man's whole life written as legibly on those clothes , as if we had his autobiography engrossed on parchment before us . 
This was the boy's dress . 
A small day school he had been at , evidently . 
If it had been a regular boys' school they wouldn't have let him play on the floor so much , and rub his knees so white . 
A black suit and the jacket changed into a diminutive coat . 
His father had died , and the mother had got the boy a message lad's place in some office . 
A long worn suit that one rusty and threadbare before it was laid aside , but clean and free from soil to the last . 
Poor woman ! We could imagine her assumed cheerfulness over the scanty meal , and the refusal of her own small portion , that her hungry boy might have enough . 
A long period had elapsed , and a greater change had taken place , by the time of casting off the suit that hung above . 
The vices of the boy had grown with the man , and we fancied his home then if such a place deserve the name . 
A stranger closed the eyes that settled into a cold unmeaning glare , and strange ears received the words that murmured from the white and half closed lips . 
A coarse round frock , with a worn cotton neckerchief , and other articles of clothing of the commonest description , completed the history . 
A prison , and the sentence banishment or the gallows . 
We had no clue to the end of the tale but it was easy to guess its termination . 
They were just the very thing for him . 
It was perfectly delightful to witness the agility of the market gardener . 
CHAPTER VII HACKNEY COACH STANDS We maintain that hackney coaches , properly so called , belong solely to the metropolis . 
, have THEIR hackney coach stands . 
These are innovations , and , like other miscalled improvements , awful signs of the restlessness of the public mind , and the little respect paid to our time honoured institutions . 
Why should hackney coaches be clean ? Our ancestors found them dirty , and left them so . 
Hackney coaches are part and parcel of the law of the land they were settled by the Legislature plated and numbered by the wisdom of Parliament . 
Our acquaintance with hackney coach stands is of long standing . 
We are a walking book of fares , feeling ourselves , half bound , as it were , to be always in the right on contested points . 
We take great interest in hackney coaches , but we seldom drive , having a knack of turning ourselves over when we attempt to do so . 
We are as great friends to horses , hackney coach and otherwise , as the renowned Mr. Martin , of costermonger notoriety , and yet we never ride . 
We keep no horse , but a clothes horse enjoy no saddle so much as a saddle of mutton and , following our own inclinations , have never followed the hounds . 
Leaving these fleeter means of getting over the ground , or of depositing oneself upon it , to those who like them , by hackney coach stands we take our stand . 
What a commotion ! The old lady , who has been stopping there for the last month , is going back to the country . 
The youngsters disappear , and a short pause ensues , during which the old lady is , no doubt , kissing them all round in the back parlour . 
A cloak is handed in , and a little basket , which we could almost swear contains a small black bottle , and a paper of sandwiches . 
, shuts the door , and the hackney coach stand is again at a standstill . 
But we never recollect to have been more amused with a hackney coach party , than one we saw early the other morning in Tottenham court road . 
It was a wedding party , and emerged from one of the inferior streets near Fitzroy square . 
They stopped at the corner of the street , and called a coach with an air of indescribable dignity . 
A shilling a mile ! the ride was worth five , at least , to them . 
So we had plenty of time to look about us . 
There was one individual who amused us mightily . 
So of course we were mistaken , and he must be a very talented man . 
He conceals it so well though perhaps with the merciful view of not astonishing ordinary people too much that you would suppose him to be one of the stupidest dogs alive . 
To this appeal the gentleman in the spectacles made no other reply than a look of virtuous indignation and Sludberry and his friends retired . 
We were so lost in these meditations , that we had turned into the street , and run up against a door post , before we recollected where we were walking . 
Down the centre of the room were several desks nearly breast high , at each of which , three or four people were standing , poring over large volumes . 
As we knew that they were searching for wills , they attracted our attention at once . 
It was perfectly evident that the more the clerk read , the less the man with the blue apron understood about the matter . 
The first two or three lines were intelligible enough but then the technicalities began , and the little man began to look rather dubious . 
Then came a whole string of complicated trusts , and he was regularly at sea . 
Every wrinkle about his toothless mouth , and sharp keen eyes , told of avarice and cunning . 
It was a good speculation a very safe one . 
The old man stowed his pocket book carefully in the breast of his great coat , and hobbled away with a leer of triumph . 
That will had made him ten years younger at the lowest computation . 
The inclination may , and no doubt does , exist to a great extent , among the small gentility the would be aristocrats of the middle classes . 
If your poverty of expression compel you to make any distinction between the two , we would certainly recommend your bestowing more admiration on his garden than his wine . 
He always takes a walk round it , before he starts for town in the morning , and is particularly anxious that the fish pond should be kept specially neat . 
Beyond these occasions , his delight in his garden appears to arise more from the consciousness of possession than actual enjoyment of it . 
There is another and a very different class of men , whose recreation is their garden . 
He and his wife who is as clean and compact a little body as himself have occupied the same house ever since he retired from business twenty years ago . 
They once had a son , who died at about five years old . 
The child's portrait hangs over the mantelpiece in the best sitting room , and a little cart he used to draw about , is carefully preserved as a relic . 
He has always something to do there , and you will see him digging , and sweeping , and cutting , and planting , with manifest delight . 
The old lady is very fond of flowers , as the hyacinth glasses in the parlour window , and geranium pots in the little front court , testify . 
These are their only recreations , and they require no more . 
They have within themselves , the materials of comfort and content and the only anxiety of each , is to die before the other . 
This is no ideal sketch . 
There USED to be many old people of this description their numbers may have diminished , and may decrease still more . 
What a dust and noise ! Men and women boys and girls sweethearts and married people babies in arms , and children in chaises pipes and shrimps cigars and periwinkles tea and tobacco . 
Some of the finery of these people provokes a smile , but they are all clean , and happy , and disposed to be good natured and sociable . 
The two men in the blue coats and drab trousers , who are walking up and down , smoking their pipes , are their husbands . 
The party in the opposite box are a pretty fair specimen of the generality of the visitors . 
They have some half dozen children with them , but it is scarcely necessary to notice the fact , for that is a matter of course here . 
CHAPTER X THE RIVER 'Are you fond of the water ? is a question very frequently asked , in hot summer weather , by amphibious looking young men . 
'Very , is the general reply . 
'An't you ? 'Hardly ever off it , is the response , accompanied by sundry adjectives , expressive of the speaker's heartfelt admiration of that element . 
Something has always gone wrong . 
But the party arrives , and Dando , relieved from his state of uncertainty , starts up into activity . 
This is the most amusing time to observe a regular Sunday water party . 
'Shove her off ! cries the cockswain , who looks as easy and comfortable as if he were steering in the Bay of Biscay . 
'Back water , you sir , aft pull round , you sir , for'ad , can't you ? shouts Dando , in a frenzy of excitement . 
'Pull round , Tom , can't you ? re echoes one of the party . 
'Tom an't for'ad , replies another . 
A well contested rowing match on the Thames , is a very lively and interesting scene . 
One of the most amusing places we know is the steam wharf of the London Bridge , or St . 
'Gravesend ? 'Pass on , if you please , sir , replies the attendant 'other boat , sir . 
To this , the officer , in his turn , replies , that that company , ever since it has been St . 
When we get down about as far as Blackwall , and begin to move at a quicker rate , the spirits of the passengers appear to rise in proportion . 
'Wonderful thing steam , sir . 
it is indeed , sir . 
'Immense immense ! 'Great deal done by steam , sir . 
you may say that , sir . 
'Still in its infancy , they say , sir . 
The same kind of feeling pursues us in many other instances , but there is no place which recalls so strongly our recollections of childhood as Astley's . 
Astley's has altered for the better we have changed for the worse . 
Our histrionic taste is gone , and with shame we confess , that we are far more delighted and amused with the audience , than with the pageantry we once so highly appreciated . 
muttered that 'William always was encouraged in his impertinence and assumed a look of profound contempt , which lasted the whole evening . 
The play began , and the interest of the little boys knew no bounds . 
Pa was clearly interested too , although he very unsuccessfully endeavoured to look as if he wasn't . 
, looked very properly shocked , when the knight's squire kissed the princess's confidential chambermaid . 
'Did you ever happen to hear I was in the army , sir ? 'No , sir . 
'Oh , yes , sir I can go through my exercise , sir . 
They always seem to think they are exhibiting the lamps are ever before them . 
Look at the dirty white Berlin gloves , and the cheap silk handkerchief stuck in the bosom of his threadbare coat . 
He is the man who does the heavy business , such as prosy fathers , virtuous servants , curates , landlords , and so forth . 
By the way , talking of fathers , we should very much like to see some piece in which all the dramatis personae were orphans . 
confided you to my charge . 
You were then an infant , c . 
At Astley's they are always more numerous than at any other place . 
We can hardly believe it now . 
In our earlier days , we were a constant frequenter of Greenwich Fair , for years . 
We have proceeded to , and returned from it , in almost every description of vehicle . 
At all events we will try . 
The road to Greenwich during the whole of Easter Monday , is in a state of perpetual bustle and noise . 
Everybody is anxious to get on , and actuated by the common wish to be at the fair , or in the park , as soon as possible . 
Here's the sort o' game , c . 
and the eloquent harangue , with such variations as the speaker's exuberant fancy suggests , is again repeated to the gaping crowd , reinforced by the accession of several new comers . 
'Kiss in the Ring , and 'Threading my Grandmother's Needle , too , are sports which receive their full share of patronage . 
But it grows dark the crowd has gradually dispersed , and only a few stragglers are left behind . 
The light in the direction of the church shows that the fair is illuminated and the distant noise proves it to be filling fast . 
Five minutes' walking brings you to the fair a scene calculated to awaken very different feelings . 
, floating in a somewhat bilious looking green liquid . 
, a pantomime , a comic song , an overture , and some incidental music , all done in five and twenty minutes . 
The company are now promenading outside in all the dignity of wigs , spangles , red ochre , and whitening . 
are the admiration of all beholders and the playful manner in which they check the advances of the clown , is perfectly enchanting . 
A change of performance takes place every day during the fair , but the story of the tragedy is always pretty much the same . 
, slowly rises to the tune of 'Oft in the stilly night . 
blesses the rightful heir and the young lady , by half suffocating them with smoke and then a muffin bell rings , and the curtain drops . 
, exactly as he is represented on the canvas outside no waiting , remember no deception . 
who bit off the gentleman's head last Cambervel vos a twelvemonth , and has killed on the awerage three keepers a year ever since he arrived at matoority . 
No extra charge on this account recollect the price of admission is only sixpence . 
This address never fails to produce a considerable sensation , and sixpences flow into the treasury with wonderful rapidity . 
pledges himself to sing a comic song inside , and pays various compliments to the ladies , which induce them to 'come for'erd' with great alacrity . 
There is a raised orchestra , and the place is boarded all the way down , in patches , just wide enough for a country dance . 
There is no master of the ceremonies in this artificial Eden all is primitive , unreserved , and unstudied . 
The noise of these various instruments , the orchestra , the shouting , the 'scratchers , and the dancing , is perfectly bewildering . 
The dancing , itself , beggars description every figure lasts about an hour , and the ladies bounce up and down the middle , with a degree of spirit which is quite indescribable . 
CHAPTER XIII PRIVATE THEATRES 'RICHARD THE THIRD . 
This they do , in proportion to the scope afforded by the character for the display of their imbecility . 
The tent scene is confessedly worth half a sovereign , and so you have the fight in , gratis , and everybody knows what an effect may be produced by a good combat . 
, and die game nothing like it for producing an effect . 
The proprietor of a private theatre may be an ex scene painter , a low coffee house keeper , a disappointed eighth rate actor , a retired smuggler , or uncertificated bankrupt . 
All the minor theatres in London , especially the lowest , constitute the centre of a little stage struck neighbourhood . 
These gentlemen are the amateurs the RICHARDS , SHYLOCKS , BEVERLEYS , and OTHELLOS the YOUNG DORNTONS , ROVERS , CAPTAIN ABSOLUTES , and CHARLES SURFACES a private theatre . 
If one of them does but know an Astley's supernumerary he is a happy fellow . 
Belville , Melville , Treville , Berkeley , Randolph , Byron , St . 
Clair , and so forth , are among the humblest and the less imposing titles of Jenkins , Walker , Thomson , Barker , Solomons , c . 
, are completely laid aside . 
There is something imposing in this , and it is an excellent apology for shabbiness into the bargain . 
, may be worn for the purpose of disguise , and to prevent the remotest chance of recognition . 
, and have just begun the sixth . 
There will be plenty of it , though , when it does begin , for there is enough in the bill to last six hours at least . 
That gentleman in the white hat and checked shirt , brown coat and brass buttons , lounging behind the stage box on the O. P. side , is Mr. Horatio St . 
Julien , alias Jem Larkins . 
His line is genteel comedy his father's , coal and potato . 
He DOES Alfred Highflier in the last piece , and very well he'll do it at the price . 
, the MACBETH of the night . 
Pantomime is to be her line , and she is coming out to night , in a hornpipe after the tragedy . 
The short thin man beside Mr. St . 
The remainder of the audience a tolerably numerous one by this time are a motley group of dupes and blackguards . 
As these preparations , however , announce the speedy commencement of the play , let us take a peep 'behind , previous to the ringing up . 
You will observe that the ceiling is ornamented with the beams that support the boards , and tastefully hung with cobwebs . 
The characters in the tragedy are all dressed , and their own clothes are scattered in hurried confusion over the wooden dresser which surrounds the room . 
He will get on better by degrees he will play OTHELLO in a month , and in a month more , will very probably be apprehended on a charge of embezzlement . 
The black eyed female with whom he is talking so earnestly , is dressed for the 'gentlewoman . 
It is HER first appearance , too in that character . 
'Look sharp below there , gents , exclaims the dresser , a red headed and red whiskered Jew , calling through the trap , 'they're a going to ring up . 
The flute says he'll be blowed if he plays any more , and they're getting precious noisy in front . 
Is the front chamber down ? 'Yes . 
'Jones' to the other army who is up in the flies . 
'Hallo ! 'Wind up the open country when we ring up . 
'Scene , back perspective with practical bridge . 
Bridge ready , White ? Got the tressels there ? 'All right . 
Clear the stage , cries the manager , hastily packing every member of the company into the little space there is between the wings and the wall , and one wing and another . 
Now then , Witches Duncan Malcolm bleeding officer where's the bleeding officer ? 'Here ! replies the officer , who has been rose pinking for the character . 
'Get ready , then now , White , ring the second music bell . 
The bell rings , and the orchestra , in acknowledgment of the call , play three distinct chords . 
The bell rings the tragedy opens and our description closes . 
Of this class of people we confess to having made one . 
In an evil hour , the proprietors of Vauxhall gardens took to opening them by day . 
We shrunk from going at this moment we scarcely know why . 
We glanced at the orchestra and supper room as we hurried past we just recognised them , and that was all . 
We bent our steps to the firework ground there , at least , we should not be disappointed . 
We reached it , and stood rooted to the spot with mortification and astonishment . 
It was for the concert in the orchestra . 
There was a spectral attempt at rope dancing in the little open theatre . 
The sun shone upon the spangled dresses of the performers , and their evolutions were about as inspiriting and appropriate as a country dance in a family vault . 
So we retraced our steps to the firework ground , and mingled with the little crowd of people who were contemplating Mr. Green . 
Green is a steady hand , sir , and there's no fear about him . 
Here there was a considerable talking among the females in the spencers . 
'What's the ladies a laughing at , sir ? inquired the little man , condescendingly . 
'It's only my sister Mary , said one of the girls , 'as says she hopes his lordship won't be frightened when he's in the car , and want to come out again . 
'Make yourself easy about that there , my dear , replied the little man . 
'Would he , though ? inquired the other man . 
'Yes , would he , replied the little one , 'and think nothing of it , neither , if he was the king himself . 
Green's presence of mind is wonderful . 
Just at this moment all eyes were directed to the preparations which were being made for starting . 
Then Mr. Green , sen . 
, and his noble companion entered one car , and Mr. Green , jun . 
There was also an interesting account how a man in a boat was distinctly heard by Mr. Green , jun . 
, to exclaim , 'My eye ! which Mr. Green , jun . 
would sink into utter insignificance before the one we have suggested . 
'Rather before than arter , adds the man with the semi roasted unmentionables , with just as much ease and complacency as if the whole world got out of bed at five . 
You turn into the street , ruminating as you bend your steps homewards on the extent to which men become hardened in cruelty , by custom . 
If there be one thing in existence more miserable than another , it most unquestionably is the being compelled to rise by candlelight . 
If you have ever doubted the fact , you are painfully convinced of your error , on the morning of your departure . 
At last you fall into a state of complete oblivion , from which you are aroused , as if into a new state of existence , by a singular illusion . 
Rap , rap , rap , again he's talking now what's that he said ? Five o'clock ! You make a violent exertion , and start up in bed . 
You proceed to dress yourself , with all possible dispatch . 
, you undo the chain and bolts of the street door , and find yourself fairly in the street . 
A thaw , by all that is miserable ! The frost is completely broken up . 
There stands the identical book keeper in the same position as if he had not moved since you saw him yesterday . 
The first stroke of six , peals from St . 
Martin's church steeple , just as you take the first sip of the boiling liquid . 
You find yourself at the booking office in two seconds , and the tap waiter finds himself much comforted by your brandy and water , in about the same period . 
'Now , gen'lm'n , cries the guard , with the waybill in his hand . 
'Five minutes behind time already ! Up jump the passengers the two young men smoking like lime kilns , and the old gentleman grumbling audibly . 
'All right , sings out the guard at last , jumping up as the coach starts , and blowing his horn directly afterwards , in proof of the soundness of his wind . 
CHAPTER XVI OMNIBUSES It is very generally allowed that public conveyances afford an extensive field for amusement and observation . 
Of all the public conveyances that have been constructed since the days of the Ark we think that is the earliest on record to the present time , commend us to an omnibus . 
Then on smooth roads people frequently get prosy , and tell long stories , and even those who don't talk , may have very unpleasant predilections . 
This is , perhaps , even worse than rum and water in a close atmosphere . 
Now , you meet with none of these afflictions in an omnibus sameness there can never be . 
The passengers change as often in the course of one journey as the figures in a kaleidoscope , and though not so glittering , are far more amusing . 
We believe there is no instance on record , of a man's having gone to sleep in one of these vehicles . 
He is no sooner emancipated , however , than he resumes the duties of his profession with unabated ardour . 
His principal distinction is his activity . 
We are not aware that it has ever been precisely ascertained , how many passengers our omnibus will contain . 
The impression on the cad's mind evidently is , that it is amply sufficient for the accommodation of any number of persons that can be enticed into it . 
'Any room ? cries a hot pedestrian . 
'Plenty o' room , sir , replies the conductor , gradually opening the door , and not disclosing the real state of the case , until the wretched man is on the steps . 
'Where ? inquires the entrapped individual , with an attempt to back out again . 
'Either side , sir , rejoins the cad , shoving him in , and slamming the door . 
Retreat is impossible the new comer rolls about , till he falls down somewhere , and there he stops . 
As we get into the city a little before ten , four or five of our party are regular passengers . 
He is extremely impatient , and sits there for the purpose of keeping a sharp eye on the cad , with whom he generally holds a running dialogue . 
He is very officious in helping people in and out , and always volunteers to give the cad a poke with his umbrella , when any one wants to alight . 
He usually recommends ladies to have sixpence ready , to prevent delay and if anybody puts a window down , that he can reach , he immediately puts it up again . 
'I say a poke , what are you stopping for ? 'For passengers , sir . 
'I know you're stopping for passengers but you've no business to do so . 
WHY are you stopping ? 'Vy , sir , that's a difficult question . 
I think it is because we perfer stopping here to going on . 
'Now mind , exclaims the little old man , with great vehemence , 'I'll pull you up to morrow I've often threatened to do it now I will . 
'Thankee , sir , replies the cad , touching his hat with a mock expression of gratitude 'werry much obliged to you indeed , sir . 
Here the young men in the omnibus laugh very heartily , and the old gentleman gets very red in the face , and seems highly exasperated . 
A second omnibus now comes up , and stops immediately behind us . 
We are quite persuaded the little old man has some notion of this kind , and that he considers their entry as a sort of negative impertinence . 
Conversation is now entirely dropped each person gazes vacantly through the window in front of him , and everybody thinks that his opposite neighbour is staring at him . 
He was a man of most simple and prepossessing appearance . 
Our fondness for that red cab was unbounded . 
The getting into a cab is a very pretty and graceful process , which , when well performed , is essentially melodramatic . 
First , there is the expressive pantomime of every one of the eighteen cabmen on the stand , the moment you raise your eyes from the ground . 
Then there is your own pantomime in reply quite a little ballet . 
You single out a particular cab , and dart swiftly towards it . 
There is no difficulty in finding a seat the apron knocks you comfortably into it at once , and off you go . 
The getting out of a cab is , perhaps , rather more complicated in its theory , and a shade more difficult in its execution . 
We have studied the subject a great deal , and we think the best way is , to throw yourself out , and trust to chance for alighting on your feet . 
If you make the driver alight first , and then throw yourself upon him , you will find that he breaks your fall materially . 
In the event of your contemplating an offer of eightpence , on no account make the tender , or show the money , until you are safely on the pavement . 
It is very bad policy attempting to save the fourpence . 
You are very much in the power of a cabman , and he considers it a kind of fee not to do you any wilful damage . 
We are not aware of any instance on record in which a cab horse has performed three consecutive miles without going down once . 
What of that ? It is all excitement . 
You had but to walk down Holborn , or Fleet street , or any of the principal thoroughfares in which there is a great deal of traffic , and judge for yourself . 
'What's the matter here , can you tell me ? 'O'ny a cab , sir . 
'Anybody hurt , do you know ? 'O'ny the fare , sir . 
You walked into the justice room of the Mansion house the whole court resounded with merriment . 
in ecstasies at Mr. Hobler and the Lord Mayor combined and the very paupers , glancing respectfully at the beadle's countenance , tried to smile , as even he relaxed . 
But society made war upon him in the shape of penalties , and he must make war upon society in his own way . 
This was the reasoning of the red cab driver . 
'Now , just mark this , young man , said the little gentleman , 'I'll pull you up to morrow morning . 
'No ! will you though ? said our friend , with a sneer . 
'I will , replied the little gentleman , 'mark my words , that's all . 
If I live till to morrow morning , you shall repent this . 
He appeared to hesitate for an instant . 
It was only for an instant his resolve was soon taken . 
'You'll pull me up , will you ? said our friend . 
'I will , rejoined the little gentleman , with even greater vehemence an before . 
'Very well , said our friend , tucking up his shirt sleeves very calmly . 
'There'll be three veeks for that . 
Wery good that'll bring me up to the middle o' next month . 
Three veeks more would carry me on to my birthday , and then I've got ten pound to draw . 
A story is nothing without the sequel and therefore , we may state , that to our certain knowledge , the board , lodging , and washing were all provided in due course . 
'What voice is that ? said we . 
The Governor shook his head . 
'Sad fellow , he replied , 'very sad . 
He positively refused to work on the wheel so , after many trials , I was compelled to order him into solitary confinement . 
, and , touching his hat , asked , as a matter of course , for 'a copper for the waterman . 
There is a son there was a father . 
There is an effect there was a cause . 
Surely this is sufficient information for the most Fatima like curiosity and , if it be not , we regret our inability to supply any further evidence on the point . 
Can there be a more satisfactory , or more strictly parliamentary course ? Impossible . 
We at once avow a similar inability to record at what precise period , or by what particular process , this gentleman's patronymic , of William Barker , became corrupted into 'Bill Boorker . 
Of the early life of Mr. Barker little is known , and even that little is involved in considerable doubt and obscurity . 
The busy hum of a parochial free school , and the shady repose of a county gaol , were alike inefficacious in producing the slightest alteration in Mr. Barker's disposition . 
His feverish attachment to change and variety nothing could repress his native daring no punishment could subdue . 
It was no selfish feeling it was not confined to his own possessions , which but too many men regard with exclusive complacency . 
No it was a nobler love a general principle . 
It extended itself with equal force to the property of other people . 
There is something very affecting in this . 
It is still more affecting to know , that such philanthropy is but imperfectly rewarded . 
Bow street , Newgate , and Millbank , are a poor return for general benevolence , evincing itself in an irrepressible love for all created objects . 
Mr. Barker felt it so . 
An opportunity for realising his fondest anticipations , soon presented itself . 
Mr. Barker secretly and cautiously inquired in the proper quarters . 
The report was correct the 'Royal William' was to make its first journey on the following Monday . 
It was a crack affair altogether . 
The buss began to run , and Mr. Barker entered into a new suit of clothes , and on a new sphere of action . 
We say it OUGHT to have been Mr. Barker , because the action was not a common one , and could have emanated from no ordinary mind . 
It has now become matter of history it is recorded in the Newgate Calendar and we wish we could attribute this piece of daring heroism to Mr. Barker . 
We regret being compelled to state that it was not performed by him . 
It was not in the power of trifles such as these , however , to subdue the freedom of his spirit . 
As soon as they passed away , he resumed the duties of his profession with unabated ardour . 
We have spoken of Mr. Barker and of the red cab driver , in the past tense . 
Alas ! Mr. Barker has again become an absentee and the class of men to which they both belonged is fast disappearing . 
Improvement has peered beneath the aprons of our cabs , and penetrated to the very innermost recesses of our omnibuses . 
Dirt and fustian will vanish before cleanliness and livery . 
CHAPTER XVIII A PARLIAMENTARY SKETCH We hope our readers will not be alarmed at this rather ominous title . 
We assure them that we are not about to become political , neither have we the slightest intention of being more prosy than usual if we can help it . 
The members are pouring in , one after the other , in shoals . 
Every now and then you hear earnest whispers of 'That's Sir John Thomson . 
'Which ? him with the gilt order round his neck ? 'No , no that's one of the messengers that other with the yellow gloves , is Sir John Thomson . 
The arrivals increase in number , and the heat and noise increase in very unpleasant proportion . 
The livery servants form a complete lane on either side of the passage , and you reduce yourself into the smallest possible space to avoid being turned out . 
That is the great conservator of the peace of Westminster . 
'Will they divide to night , do you think , Mr. timidly inquires a little thin man in the crowd , hoping to conciliate the man of office . 
'How CAN you ask such questions , sir ? replies the functionary , in an incredibly loud key , and pettishly grasping the thick stick he carries in his right hand . 
'Pray do not , sir . 
I beg of you pray do not , sir . 
The little man looks remarkably out of his element , and the uninitiated part of the throng are in positive convulsions of laughter . 
Just at this moment some unfortunate individual appears , with a very smirking air , at the bottom of the long passage . 
He has managed to elude the vigilance of the special constable downstairs , and is evidently congratulating himself on having made his way so far . 
'Go back , sir you must NOT come here , shouts the hoarse one , with tremendous emphasis of voice and gesture , the moment the offender catches his eye . 
'Do you hear , sir will you go back ? continues the official dignitary , gently pushing the intruder some half dozen yards . 
'Come , don't push me , replies the stranger , turning angrily round . 
'Take your hands off me , sir . 
'Go out of the passage , sir . 
'You're a Jack in office , sir . 
'A what ? ejaculates he of the boots . 
'A Jack in office , sir , and a very insolent fellow , reiterates the stranger , now completely in a passion . 
'Pray do not force me to put you out , sir , retorts the other 'pray do not my instructions are to keep this passage clear it's the Speaker's orders , sir . 
'D n the Speaker , sir ! shouts the intruder . 
He is a militia officer , and the most amusing person in the House . 
He is very punctual in his attendance at the House , and his self satisfied 'He ar He ar , is not unfrequently the signal for a general titter . 
It is tolerably full already , and little groups of Members are congregated together here , discussing the interesting topics of the day . 
He has fought a great many battles in his time , and conquered like the heroes of old , with no other arms than those the gods gave him . 
The old hard featured man who is standing near him , is really a good specimen of a class of men , now nearly extinct . 
He is a county Member , and has been from time whereof the memory of man is not to the contrary . 
It is a costume one seldom sees nowadays , and when the few who wear it have died off , it will be quite extinct . 
You are curious to know who that young man in the rough great coat is , who has accosted every Member who has entered the House since we have been standing here . 
There he goes again another ! Bless the man , he has his hat and pockets full already . 
We will try our fortune at the Strangers' gallery , though the nature of the debate encourages very little hope of success . 
What on earth are you about ? Holding up your order as if it were a talisman at whose command the wicket would fly open ? Nonsense . 
This tall stout man in black is the door keeper . 
'Any room ? 'Not an inch two or three dozen gentlemen waiting down stairs on the chance of somebody's going out . 
He returns , and with real feeling assures you that it is morally impossible to get near the gallery . 
It is of no use waiting . 
When you are refused admission into the Strangers' gallery at the House of Commons , under such circumstances , you may return home thoroughly satisfied that the place must be remarkably full indeed . 
Retracing our steps through the long passage , descending the stairs , and crossing Palace yard , we halt at a small temporary doorway adjoining the King's entrance to the House of Lords . 
The order of the serjeant at arms will admit you into the Reporters' gallery , from whence you can obtain a tolerably good view of the House . 
Take care of the stairs , they are none of the best through this little wicket there . 
is speaking , amidst a hum of voices and confusion which would rival Babel , but for the circumstance of its being all in one language . 
Neither of these is the kitchen , although they are both devoted to the same purpose the kitchen is further on to our left , up these half dozen stairs . 
Nicholas , like all men of his age and standing , has a great idea of the degeneracy of the times . 
He seldom expresses any political opinions , but we managed to ascertain , just before the passing of the Reform Bill , that Nicholas was a thorough Reformer . 
His strong opinion against the clause which empowered the metropolitan districts to return Members to Parliament , too , was perfectly unaccountable . 
We discovered the secret at last the metropolitan Members always dined at home . 
The rascals ! As for giving additional Members to Ireland , it was even worse decidedly unconstitutional . 
Why , sir , an Irish Member would go up there , and eat more dinner than three English Members put together . 
He took no wine drank table beer by the half gallon and went home to Manchester buildings , or Millbank street , for his whiskey and water . 
And what was the consequence ? Why , the concern lost actually lost , sir by his patronage . 
A queer old fellow is Nicholas , and as completely a part of the building as the house itself . 
He must have been got out by force . 
However , he was got out here he is again , looking as he always does , as if he had been in a bandbox ever since the last session . 
The small gentleman with the sharp nose , who has just saluted him , is a Member of Parliament , an ex Alderman , and a sort of amateur fireman . 
That female in black not the one whom the Lord's Day Bill Baronet has just chucked under the chin the shorter of the two is 'Jane the Hebe of Bellamy's . 
Jane is as great a character as Nicholas , in her way . 
, and how playfully she digs the handle of a fork into the arm with which he detains her , by way of reply . 
which occasionally take place in the passage , is not the least amusing part of his character . 
He has gone up to the other House since then the greater part of his boon companions have shared Yorick's fate , and his visits to Bellamy's are comparatively few . 
, and a complete walking reservoir of spirits and water . 
This is enough away rush the members pell mell . 
Of all entertainments of this description , however , we think the annual dinner of some public charity is the most amusing . 
At a Company's dinner , the people are nearly all alike regular old stagers , who make it a matter of business , and a thing not to be laughed at . 
Let us suppose you are induced to attend a dinner of this description 'Indigent Orphans' Friends' Benevolent Institution , we think it is . 
The name of the charity is a line or two longer , but never mind the rest . 
The first thing that strikes you , on your entrance , is the astonishing importance of the committee . 
You are immediately undeceived by the waiter 'Up stairs , if you please , sir this is the committee room . 
Being fortunate enough to find a plate without anybody's card in it , you wisely seat yourself at once , and have a little leisure to look about you . 
As to the dinner itself the mere dinner it goes off much the same everywhere . 
The knives and forks form a pleasing accompaniment to Auber's music , and Auber's music would form a pleasing accompaniment to the dinner , if you could hear anything besides the cymbals . 
The grace is soon concluded , and the company resume their seats . 
Here again we are compelled to adopt newspaper phraseology , and to express our regret at being 'precluded from giving even the substance of the noble lord's observations . 
EXEUNT children , and re enter stewards , each with a blue plate in his hand . 
The secretary , in returning thanks , observes that HE knows no more excellent individual than the chairman except the senior officer of the charity , whose health HE begs to propose . 
The senior officer , in returning thanks , observes that HE knows no more worthy man than the secretary except Mr. Walker , the auditor , whose health HE begs to propose . 
We have protracted our dinner to so great a length , that we have hardly time to add one word by way of grace . 
CHAPTER XX THE FIRST OF MAY 'Now ladies , up in the sky parlour only once a year , if you please ! YOUNG LADY WITH BRASS LADLE . 
'Sweep sweep sw e ep ! ILLEGAL WATCHWORD . 
George's fields ? Alas ! romance can make no head against the riot act and pastoral simplicity is not understood by the police . 
The sweeps , however , got the dancing to themselves , and they kept it up , and handed it down . 
A mystery hung over the sweeps in those days . 
Legends were in existence of wealthy gentlemen who had lost children , and who , after many years of sorrow and suffering , had found them in the character of sweeps . 
thought of ill treating a sweep , because no one knew who he might be , or what nobleman's or gentleman's son he might turn out . 
But , even this wicked source of comfort received a shock from which it has never recovered a shock which has been in reality its death blow . 
We turned a deaf ear to these rumours at first , but slowly and surely they stole upon us . 
Month after month , week after week , nay , day after day , at last , did we meet with accounts of similar applications . 
The veil was removed , all mystery was at an end , and chimney sweeping had become a favourite and chosen pursuit . 
There is no longer any occasion to steal boys for boys flock in crowds to bind themselves . 
We positively deny that the sweeps have art or part in these proceedings . 
We distinctly charge the dustmen with throwing what they ought to clear away , into the eyes of the public . 
We accuse scavengers , brickmakers , and gentlemen who devote their energies to the costermongering line , with obtaining money once a year , under false pretences . 
The size of them , alone , is sufficient to repudiate the idea . 
This is strong presumptive evidence , but we have positive proof the evidence of our own senses . 
And here is our testimony . 
, when this graceful figure made his appearance , which swelled into a burst of applause as his fair partner in the dance bounded forth to join him . 
Her ladyship was attired in pink crape over bed furniture , with a low body and short sleeves . 
Her head was ornamented with a profusion of artificial flowers and in her hand she bore a large brass ladle , wherein to receive what she figuratively denominated 'the tin . 
We passed the same group , accidentally , in the evening . 
, a pair of clowns so melancholy , a lady so muddy , or a party so miserable . 
Perhaps they will imagine that we mean an humble class of second hand furniture repositories . 
The dog is very beautiful , but they have a dog already on the best tea tray , and two more on the mantel piece . 
give it such an air of reality ! The goods here are adapted to the taste , or rather to the means , of cheap purchasers . 
There is also a most extensive assortment of tent and turn up bedsteads , made of stained wood , and innumerable specimens of that base imposition on society a sofa bedstead . 
How different is the demeanour of a sofa bedstead ! Ashamed of its real use , it strives to appear an article of luxury and gentility an attempt in which it miserably fails . 
To return from this digression , we beg to say , that neither of these classes of brokers' shops , forms the subject of this sketch . 
The shops to which we advert , are immeasurably inferior to those on whose outward appearance we have slightly touched . 
Our wonder at their ever having been bought , is only to be equalled by our astonishment at the idea of their ever being sold again . 
Take Drury Lane and Covent garden for example . 
This is essentially a theatrical neighbourhood . 
There is not a potboy in the vicinity who is not , to a greater or less extent , a dramatic character . 
Let us take a very different quarter , and apply it to the same test . 
Look at a marine store dealer's , in that reservoir of dirt , drunkenness , and drabs thieves , oysters , baked potatoes , and pickled salmon Ratcliff highway . 
Here , the wearing apparel is all nautical . 
The furniture is much the same as elsewhere , with the addition of one or two models of ships , and some old prints of naval engagements in still older frames . 
A sailor generally pawns or sells all he has before he has been long ashore , and if he does not , some favoured companion kindly saves him the trouble . 
In either case , it is an even chance that he afterwards unconsciously repurchases the same things at a higher price than he gave for them at first . 
Again pay a visit with a similar object , to a part of London , as unlike both of these as they are to each other . 
Cross over to the Surrey side , and look at such shops of this description as are to be found near the King's Bench prison , and in 'the Rules . 
How different , and how strikingly illustrative of the decay of some of the unfortunate residents in this part of the metropolis ! Imprisonment and neglect have done their work . 
First , watches and rings , then cloaks , coats , and all the more expensive articles of dress , have found their way to the pawnbroker's . 
But hunger must be allayed , and what has already become a habit , is easily resorted to , when an emergency arises . 
Light articles of clothing , first of the ruined man , then of his wife , at last of their children , even of the youngest , have been parted with , piecemeal . 
The great distinction between the animals and the trades , is , that the former run mad with a certain degree of propriety they are very regular in their irregularities . 
We know the period at which the emergency will arise , and provide against it accordingly . 
If an elephant run mad , we are all ready for him kill or cure pills or bullets , calomel in conserve of roses , or lead in a musket barrel . 
But these trades are as eccentric as comets nay , worse , for no one can calculate on the recurrence of the strange appearances which betoken the disease . 
Moreover , the contagion is general , and the quickness with which it diffuses itself , almost incredible . 
We will cite two or three cases in illustration of our meaning . 
Six or eight years ago , the epidemic began to display itself among the linen drapers and haberdashers . 
The primary symptoms were an inordinate love of plate glass , and a passion for gas lights and gilding . 
The disease gradually progressed , and at last attained a fearful height . 
A year or two of comparative tranquillity ensued . 
Then , the hosiers were infected , and began to pull down their shop fronts with frantic recklessness . 
The extensive scale on which these places are established , and the ostentatious manner in which the business of even the smallest among them is divided into branches , is amusing . 
Although places of this description are to be met with in every second street , they are invariably numerous and splendid in precise proportion to the dirt and poverty of the surrounding neighbourhood . 
The gin shops in and near Drury Lane , Holborn , St . 
Giles's , Covent garden , and Clare market , are the handsomest in London . 
There is more of filth and squalid misery near those great thorough fares than in any part of this mighty city . 
who have not witnessed it . 
What a change ! All is light and brilliancy . 
The interior is even gayer than the exterior . 
Beyond the bar is a lofty and spacious saloon , full of the same enticing vessels , with a gallery running round it , equally well furnished . 
Behind it , are two showily dressed damsels with large necklaces , dispensing the spirits and 'compounds . 
They receive their half quartern of gin and peppermint , with considerable deference , prefacing a request for 'one of them soft biscuits , with a 'Jist be good enough , ma'am . 
'For me , Mary , my dear , replies the gentleman in brown . 
'My name an't Mary as it happens , says the young girl , rather relaxing as she delivers the change . 
'Well , if it an't , it ought to be , responds the irresistible one 'all the Marys as ever I see , was handsome gals . 
Some of the party are borne off to the station house , and the remainder slink home to beat their wives for complaining , and kick the children for daring to be hungry . 
The very nature and description of these places occasions their being but little known , except to the unfortunate beings whose profligacy or misfortune drives them to seek the temporary relief they offer . 
There are some pawnbrokers' shops of a very superior description . 
There are grades in pawning as in everything else , and distinctions must be observed even in poverty . 
It is with pawnbrokers' shops of the latter class , that we have to do . 
We have selected one for our purpose , and will endeavour to describe it . 
open into a corresponding number of little dens , or closets , which face the counter . 
The shopman slightly raises his head , with an air of deep abstraction , and resumes his entry with as much deliberation as if he were engraving . 
'You're in a hurry , Mrs. Tatham , this ev'nin' , an't you ? is the only notice he deigns to take , after the lapse of five minutes or so . 
'Yes , I am indeed , Mr. Henry now , do serve me next , there's a good creetur . 
I wouldn't worry you , only it's all along o' them botherin' children . 
'What have you got here ? inquires the shopman , unpinning the bundle 'old concern , I suppose pair o' stays and a petticut . 
He gave four shillin' for it , the werry same blessed day as he broke his arm . 
'What do you want upon these ? inquires Mr. Henry , slightly glancing at the articles , which in all probability are old acquaintances . 
'What do you want upon these ? 'Eighteenpence . 
'Oh , make it a shillin' there's a dear do now ? 'Not another farden . 
'Well , I suppose I must take it . 
He was enjoying a little relaxation from his sedentary pursuits a quarter of an hour ago , in kicking his wife up the court . 
In the present case , the unfortunate little wretch has received a cuff which sends him reeling to this door and the donor of the blow is immediately the object of general indignation . 
'What do you strike the boy for , you brute ? exclaims a slipshod woman , with two flat irons in a little basket . 
'Go and hang yourself and wait till I come and cut you down . 
I wish I had you I'd murder you , I would , if I died for it ! 'Now be civil , retorts the man fiercely . 
'Be civil , you wiper ! ejaculates the woman contemptuously . 
'Come home , dear , cries the miserable creature , in an imploring tone 'DO come home , there's a good fellow , and go to bed . 
'Go home yourself , rejoins the furious ruffian . 
'Do come home quietly , repeats the wife , bursting into tears . 
'Go home yourself , retorts the husband again , enforcing his argument by a blow which sends the poor creature flying out of the shop . 
In the next box , is a young female , whose attire , miserably poor , but extremely gaudy , wretchedly cold , but extravagantly fine , too plainly bespeaks her station . 
There has been another spectator , in the person of a woman in the common shop the lowest of the low dirty , unbonneted , flaunting , and slovenly . 
Her curiosity was at first attracted by the little she could see of the group then her attention . 
Who shall say how soon these women may change places ? The last has but two more stages the hospital and the grave . 
But we still retain so much of our original feeling , that to this hour we never pass the building without something like a shudder . 
We have a great respect for Mrs. Fry , but she certainly ought to have written more romances than Mrs. Radcliffe . 
We were walking leisurely down the Old Bailey , some time ago , when , as we passed this identical gate , it was opened by the officiating turnkey . 
We turned quickly round , as a matter of course , and saw two persons descending the steps . 
We could not help stopping and observing them . 
They were an elderly woman , of decent appearance , though evidently poor , and a boy of about fourteen or fifteen . 
The woman was crying bitterly she carried a small bundle in her hand , and the boy followed at a short distance behind her . 
Their little history was obvious . 
He had formed dissolute connexions idleness had led to crime and he had been committed to take his trial for some petty theft . 
He had been long in prison , and , after receiving some trifling additional punishment , had been ordered to be discharged that morning . 
It was his first offence , and his poor old mother , still hoping to reclaim him , had been waiting at the gate to implore him to return home . 
We cannot forget the boy he descended the steps with a dogged look , shaking his head with an air of bravado and obstinate determination . 
They walked a few paces , and paused . 
The woman put her hand upon his shoulder in an agony of entreaty , and the boy sullenly raised his head as if in refusal . 
Curiosity has occasionally led us into both Courts at the Old Bailey . 
There is a great deal of form , but no compassion considerable interest , but no sympathy . 
Take the Old Court for example . 
There sit the judges , with whose great dignity everybody is acquainted , and of whom therefore we need say no more . 
But turn your eyes to the dock watch the prisoner attentively for a few moments and the fact is before you , in all its painful reality . 
They turn round to consult you can almost hear the man's heart beat , as he bites the stalk of rosemary , with a desperate effort to appear composed . 
The clerk directs one of the officers of the Court to 'take the woman out , and fresh business is proceeded with , as if nothing had occurred . 
A boy of thirteen is tried , say for picking the pocket of some subject of her Majesty , and the offence is about as clearly proved as an offence can be . 
The jury at once find him 'guilty , and his endeavours to squeeze out a tear or two are redoubled . 
The governor of the gaol then states , in reply to an inquiry from the bench , that the prisoner has been under his care twice before . 
This the urchin resolutely denies in some such terms as 'S'elp me , gen'lm'n , I never vos in trouble afore indeed , my Lord , I never vos . 
This representation , like the defence , fails in producing the desired effect , and the boy is sentenced , perhaps , to seven years' transportation . 
Contact with death even in its least terrible shape , is solemn and appalling . 
We saw the prison , and saw the prisoners and what we did see , and what we thought , we will tell at once in our own way . 
We were disappointed he had not even top boots on . 
, the Sessions house , and Newgate street . 
The intermediate space is divided into several paved yards , in which the prisoners take such air and exercise as can be had in such a place . 
, run parallel with Newgate street , and consequently from the Old Bailey , as it were , to Newgate market . 
The women's side is in the right wing of the prison nearest the Sessions house . 
As we were introduced into this part of the building first , we will adopt the same order , and introduce our readers to it also . 
It is impossible to imagine a more poverty stricken object , or a creature so borne down in soul and body , by excess of misery and destitution , as the old woman . 
The girl was perfectly unmoved . 
The girl was thinly clad , and shaking with the cold . 
Some ordinary word of recognition passed between her and her mother when she appeared at the grating , but neither hope , condolence , regret , nor affection was expressed on either side . 
The mother whispered her instructions , and the girl received them with her pinched up , half starved features twisted into an expression of careful cunning . 
The girl belonged to a class unhappily but too extensive the very existence of which , should make men's hearts bleed . 
The thousand nameless endearments of childhood , its gaiety and its innocence , are alike unknown to them . 
There are several in this part of the building , but a description of one is a description of the whole . 
There was a large fire with a deal table before it , round which ten or a dozen women were seated on wooden forms at dinner . 
The women rose hastily , on our entrance , and retired in a hurried manner to either side of the fireplace . 
They were all cleanly many of them decently attired , and there was nothing peculiar , either in their appearance or demeanour . 
Not a word was uttered during the time of our remaining , unless , indeed , by the wardswoman in reply to some question which we put to the turnkey who accompanied us . 
In every ward on the female side , a wardswoman is appointed to preserve order , and a similar regulation is adopted among the males . 
The wardsmen and wardswomen are all prisoners , selected for good conduct . 
They alone are allowed the privilege of sleeping on bedsteads a small stump bedstead being placed in every ward for that purpose . 
, we were led through a narrow yard to the 'school' a portion of the prison set apart for boys under fourteen years of age . 
There were fourteen of them in all , some with shoes , some without some in pinafores without jackets , others in jackets without pinafores , and one in scarce anything at all . 
The whole number , without an exception we believe , had been committed for trial on charges of pocket picking and fourteen such terrible little faces we never beheld . 
There was not one redeeming feature among them not a glance of honesty not a wink expressive of anything but the gallows and the hulks , in the whole collection . 
As to anything like shame or contrition , that was entirely out of the question . 
We never looked upon a more disagreeable sight , because we never saw fourteen such hopeless creatures of neglect , before . 
On either side of the school yard is a yard for men , in one of which that towards Newgate street prisoners of the more respectable class are confined . 
Of the other , we have little description to offer , as the different wards necessarily partake of the same character . 
When they do leave the fire , sauntering moodily about , lounging in the window , or leaning against the wall , vacantly swinging their bodies to and fro . 
With the exception of a man reading an old newspaper , in two or three instances , this was the case in every ward we entered . 
The married men have a separate grating , at which to see their wives , but its construction is the same . 
The prison chapel is situated at the back of the governor's house the latter having no windows looking into the interior of the prison . 
It may seem incredible , but it is true . 
It is a long , narrow court , of which a portion of the wall in Newgate street forms one end , and the gate the other . 
similar to that before described . 
Through these grates the prisoners are allowed to see their friends a turnkey always remaining in the vacant space between , during the whole interview . 
There was nothing remarkable in the appearance of these prisoners . 
The room was large , airy , and clean . 
On the table lay a Testament , but there were no tokens of its having been in recent use . 
In the press room below , were three men , the nature of whose offence rendered it necessary to separate them , even from their companions in guilt . 
The fate of one of these prisoners was uncertain some mitigatory circumstances having come to light since his trial , which had been humanely represented in the proper quarter . 
'The two short ones , the turnkey whispered , 'were dead men . 
The other two men were at the upper end of the room . 
The other was leaning on the sill of the farthest window . 
The light fell full upon him , and communicated to his pale , haggard face , and disordered hair , an appearance which , at that distance , was ghastly . 
We passed this room again afterwards . 
He bowed respectfully to our conductor , and the salute was returned . 
The other two still remained in the positions we have described , and were as motionless as statues . 
A few paces up the yard , and forming a continuation of the building , in which are the two rooms we have just quitted , lie the condemned cells . 
From the left hand side of this passage , the massive door of every cell on the story opens and from it alone can they be approached . 
There are three of these passages , and three of these ranges of cells , one above the other but in size , furniture and appearance , they are all precisely alike . 
When the warrant for a prisoner's execution arrives , he is removed to the cells and confined in one of them until he leaves it for the scaffold . 
We entered the first cell . 
It contained no other furniture of any description . 
Conceive the situation of a man , spending his last night on earth in this cell . 
The deep bell of St . 
Paul's strikes one ! He heard it it has roused him . 
Seven hours ! He suffers himself to be led to his seat , mechanically takes the bible which is placed in his hand , and tries to read and listen . 
No his thoughts will wander . 
The voice of the clergyman recalls him to himself . 
He is reading from the sacred book its solemn promises of pardon for repentance , and its awful denunciation of obdurate men . 
He falls upon his knees and clasps his hands to pray . 
Hush ! what sound was that ? He starts upon his feet . 
It cannot be two yet . 
Hark ! Two quarters have struck the third the fourth . 
It is ! Six hours left . 
Tell him not of repentance ! Six hours' repentance for eight times six years of guilt and sin ! He buries his face in his hands , and throws himself on the bench . 
Worn with watching and excitement , he sleeps , and the same unsettled state of mind pursues him in his dreams . 
He is on his trial again there are the judge and jury , and prosecutors , and witnesses , just as they were before . 
How full the court is what a sea of heads with a gallows , too , and a scaffold and how all those people stare at HIM ! Verdict , 'Guilty . 
No matter he will escape . 
The streets are cleared , the open fields are gained and the broad , wide country lies before him . 
At length he pauses he must be safe from pursuit now he will stretch himself on that bank and sleep till sunrise . 
A period of unconsciousness succeeds . 
He wakes , cold and wretched . 
The dull , gray light of morning is stealing into the cell , and falls upon the form of the attendant turnkey . 
Confused by his dreams , he starts from his uneasy bed in momentary uncertainty . 
Every object in the narrow cell is too frightfully real to admit of doubt or mistake . 
He is the condemned felon again , guilty and despairing and in two hours more will be dead . 
CHARACTERS CHAPTER I THOUGHTS ABOUT PEOPLE It is strange with how little notice , good , bad , or indifferent , a man may live and die in London . 
There is a numerous class of people in this great metropolis who seem not to possess a single friend , and whom nobody appears to care for . 
Urged by imperative necessity in the first instance , they have resorted to London in search of employment , and the means of subsistence . 
These men , however , happily for themselves , have long forgotten such thoughts . 
We were seated in the enclosure of St . 
James's Park the other day , when our attention was attracted by a man whom we immediately put down in our own mind as one of this class . 
He was a tall , thin , pale person , in a black coat , scanty gray trousers , little pinched up gaiters , and brown beaver gloves . 
He had an umbrella in his hand not for use , for the day was fine but , evidently , because he always carried one to the office in the morning . 
It was Monday he had escaped for four and twenty hours from the thraldom of the desk and was walking here for exercise and amusement perhaps for the first time in his life . 
We were inclined to think he had never had a holiday before , and that he did not know what to do with himself . 
About five , or half past , he slowly dismounts from his accustomed stool , and again changing his coat , proceeds to his usual dining place , somewhere near Bucklersbury . 
This important point settled , he hangs up his hat he took it off the moment he sat down and bespeaks the paper after the next gentleman . 
, and returns to the office , from which , if it is not foreign post night , he again sallies forth , in about half an hour . 
Poor , harmless creatures such men are contented but not happy broken spirited and humbled , they may feel no pain , but they never know pleasure . 
Compare these men with another class of beings who , like them , have neither friend nor companion , but whose position in society is the result of their own choice . 
He belongs to two or three clubs , and is envied , and flattered , and hated by the members of them all . 
They are no longer an organised body , bound down by solemn compact to terrify his Majesty's subjects whenever it pleases them to take offence in their heads and staves in their hands . 
They are still , however , a peculiar class , and not the less pleasant for being inoffensive . 
They had come out of some part of the city it was between three and four o'clock in the afternoon and they were on their way to the Park . 
One of the party had a watch about the size and shape of a reasonable Ribstone pippin , jammed into his waistcoat pocket , which he carefully compared with the clocks at St . 
Clement's and the New Church , the illuminated clock at Exeter 'Change , the clock of St . 
Martin's Church , and the clock of the Horse Guards . 
When they at last arrived in St . 
We may smile at such people , but they can never excite our anger . 
They are usually on the best terms with themselves , and it follows almost as a matter of course , in good humour with every one about them . 
Never heed such dismal reminiscences . 
There are few men who have lived long enough in the world , who cannot call up such thoughts any day in the year . 
as they sit round the fire . 
One little seat may be empty one slight form that gladdened the father's heart , and roused the mother's pride to look upon , may not be there . 
Reflect upon your present blessings of which every man has many not on your past misfortunes , of which all men have some . 
Fill your glass again , with a merry face and contented heart . 
A momentary pause succeeds the girl breaks suddenly from her sister and throws herself , sobbing , on her mother's neck . 
The father steps hastily forward , and takes her husband's hand . 
Friends crowd round to offer their hearty congratulations , and happiness and harmony again prevail . 
As to the dinner , it's perfectly delightful nothing goes wrong , and everybody is in the very best of spirits , and disposed to please and be pleased . 
CHAPTER III THE NEW YEAR Next to Christmas day , the most pleasant annual epoch in existence is the advent of the New Year . 
There must have been some few occurrences in the past year to which we can look back , with a smile of cheerful recollection , if not with a feeling of heartfelt thankfulness . 
We can fancy one of these parties , we think , as well as if we were duly dress coated and pumped , and had just been announced at the drawing room door . 
Take the house with the green blinds for instance . 
Now he is announced by the man in the passage to another man in a blue coat , who is a disguised messenger from the office . 
The man on the first landing precedes him to the drawing room door . 
Tupple ! shouts the messenger . 
'How ARE you , Tupple ? says the master of the house , advancing from the fire , before which he has been talking politics and airing himself . 
Most delightful partner ! talks through the whole set ! and although he does seem at first rather gay and frivolous , so romantic and with so MUCH feeling ! Quite a love . 
The Ladies ! among whom the fascinating daughters of their excellent host , are alike conspicuous for their beauty , their accomplishments , and their elegance . 
He is sure they must all be deeply impressed with the hospitality he may say the splendour with which they have been that night received by their worthy host and hostess . 
They have seen him to night in the peaceful bosom of his family they should see him in the morning , in the trying duties of his office . 
We have scarcely written the last word of the previous sentence , when the first stroke of twelve , peals from the neighbouring churches . 
There certainly we must confess it now is something awful in the sound . 
But , we measure man's life by years , and it is a solemn knell that warns us we have passed another of the landmarks which stands between us and the grave . 
CHAPTER IV MISS EVANS AND THE EAGLE Mr. Samuel Wilkins was a carpenter , a journeyman carpenter of small dimensions , decidedly below the middle size bordering , perhaps , upon the dwarfish . 
His earnings were all sufficient for his wants , varying from eighteen shillings to one pound five , weekly his manner undeniable his sabbath waistcoats dazzling . 
No wonder that , with these qualifications , Samuel Wilkins found favour in the eyes of the other sex many women have been captivated by far less substantial qualifications . 
He came , and conquered proposed , and was accepted loved , and was beloved . 
Mr. Wilkins 'kept company' with Jemima Evans . 
had adopted in early life the useful pursuit of shoe binding , to which she had afterwards superadded the occupation of a straw bonnet maker . 
The family were just going to tea , and were SO glad to see him . 
'I wos a thinking , said Mr. Samuel Wilkins , during a pause in the conversation 'I wos a thinking of taking J'mima to the Eagle to night . 
'O my ! exclaimed Mrs. Ivins . 
'Lor ! how nice ! said the youngest Miss Ivins . 
'Well , I declare ! added the youngest Miss Ivins but one . 
'How ev'nly ! said Miss J'mima Ivins , and Miss J'mima Ivins's friend , both at once , when they had passed the gate and were fairly inside the gardens . 
As to the concert room , never was anything half so splendid . 
The audience were seated on elevated benches round the room , and crowded into every part of it and everybody was eating and drinking as comfortably as possible . 
The concert commenced overture on the organ . 
'How solemn ! exclaimed Miss J'mima Ivins , glancing , perhaps unconsciously , at the gentleman with the whiskers . 
'The soldier tired , Miss Somebody in white satin . 
'Ancore ! cried Miss J'mima Ivins's friend . 
'Ancore ! shouted the gentleman in the plaid waistcoat immediately , hammering the table with a stout bottle . 
Miss J'mima Ivins's friend's young man eyed the man behind the waistcoat from head to foot , and cast a look of interrogative contempt towards Mr. Samuel Wilkins . 
Comic song , accompanied on the organ . 
Miss J'mima Ivins was convulsed with laughter so was the man with the whiskers . 
The concert and vaudeville concluded , they promenaded the gardens . 
The waistcoat and whiskers did the same and made divers remarks complimentary to the ankles of Miss J'mima Ivins and friend , in an audible tone . 
'What's the matter with YOU , you little humbug ? replied the whiskers . 
'How dare you insult me and my friend ? inquired the friend's young man . 
'You and your friend be hanged ! responded the waistcoat . 
'Take that , exclaimed Mr. Samuel Wilkins . 
'Give it him , said the waistcoat . 
'Horficer ! screamed the ladies . 
Miss J'mima Ivins's beau , and the friend's young man , lay gasping on the gravel , and the waistcoat and whiskers were seen no more . 
, for the purpose of solacing ourself with a glass of ale . 
'Won't you walk into the parlour , sir ? said the young lady , in seductive tones . 
'You had much better step into the parlour , sir , said the little old lady , popping out her head , on the other side of the screen . 
We cast a slight glance around , as if to express our ignorance of the locality so much recommended . 
The little old landlord observed it bustled out of the small door of the small bar and forthwith ushered us into the parlour itself . 
It was an ancient , dark looking room , with oaken wainscoting , a sanded floor , and a high mantel piece . 
The monotonous appearance of the sanded boards was relieved by an occasional spittoon and a triangular pile of those useful articles adorned the two upper corners of the apartment . 
'Very extraordinary ! said the light haired man after a pause of five minutes . 
A murmur of assent ran through the company . 
'Not at all extraordinary not at all , said the red faced man , awakening suddenly from his reverie , and turning upon the light haired man , the moment he had spoken . 
'Why should it be extraordinary ? why is it extraordinary ? prove it to be extraordinary ! 'Oh , if you come to that said the light haired man , meekly . 
'Come to that ! ejaculated the man with the red face 'but we MUST come to that . 
We stand , in these times , upon a calm elevation of intellectual attainment , and not in the dark recess of mental deprivation . 
Proof , is what I require proof , and not assertions , in these stirring times . 
Mr. Snobee , said Mr. Wilson , is a fit and proper person to represent the borough in Parliament . 
Prove it , says I. He is a friend to Reform , says Mr. Wilson . 
Prove it , says I. His acts prove it , says he . 
This is my argument this always has been my argument and if I was a Member of the House of Commons to morrow , I'd make 'em shake in their shoes with it . 
And the red faced man , having struck the table very hard with his clenched fist , to add weight to the declaration , smoked away like a brewery . 
'Improving company ! said Mr. Rogers , for that , it seemed , was the name of the red faced man . 
Inscribe that upon my tomb , and I am satisfied . 
'You ARE a slave , said the red faced man , 'and the most pitiable of all slaves . 
'Werry hard if I am , interrupted the greengrocer , 'for I got no good out of the twenty million that was paid for 'mancipation , anyhow . 
'Prove it , said the greengrocer . 
'Prove it ! sneered the man with the red face . 
Prove it ! The red faced man abruptly broke off , sneered melo dramatically , and buried his countenance and his indignation together , in a quart pot . 
'Ah , to be sure , Mr. Rogers , said a stout broker in a large waistcoat , who had kept his eyes fixed on this luminary all the time he was speaking . 
'Ah , to be sure , said the broker with a sigh , 'that's the point . 
'Of course , of course , said divers members of the company , who understood almost as much about the matter as the broker himself . 
Try it on , on some other suit it won't do with him , Tommy . 
'What is a man ? continued the red faced specimen of the species , jerking his hat indignantly from its peg on the wall . 
'What is an Englishman ? Is he to be trampled upon by every oppressor ? Is he to be knocked down at everybody's bidding ? What's freedom ? Not a standing army . 
What's a standing army ? Not freedom . 
What's general happiness ? Not universal misery . 
'Wonderful man ! said he of the sharp nose . 
'Splendid speaker ! added the broker . 
'Great power ! said everybody but the greengrocer . 
And as they said it , the whole party shook their heads mysteriously , and one by one retired , leaving us alone in the old parlour . 
If we had followed the established precedent in all such instances , we should have fallen into a fit of musing , without delay . 
Being thus reduced to the unpleasant necessity of musing about ordinary matters , our thoughts reverted to the red faced man , and his oratorical display . 
Weak pated dolts they are , and a great deal of mischief they do to their cause , however good . 
So , just to hold a pattern one up , to know the others by , we took his likeness at once , and put him in here . 
And that is the reason why we have written this paper . 
He turned pale at this , and we saw him clench the bar very hard when the order was given . 
He was removed directly afterwards , and he spoke not a word . 
We felt an irrepressible curiosity to witness this interview , although it is hard to tell why , at this instant , for we knew it must be a painful one . 
It was no very difficult matter for us to gain permission , and we obtained it . 
The man was handcuffed , and his hat was pulled forward over his eyes . 
It was easy to see , though , by the whiteness of his countenance , and the constant twitching of the muscles of his face , that he dreaded what was to come . 
On every face was stamped the expression of anguish and suffering . 
The object of the visit was lying at the upper end of the room . 
She was a fine young woman of about two or three and twenty . 
Her long black hair , which had been hastily cut from near the wounds on her head , streamed over the pillow in jagged and matted locks . 
The magistrate nodded to the officer , to bring the man forward . 
He did so , and stationed him at the bedside . 
The girl looked on with a wild and troubled expression of face but her sight was dim , and she did not know him . 
'Take off his hat , said the magistrate . 
The officer did as he was desired , and the man's features were disclosed . 
The girl started up , with an energy quite preternatural the fire gleamed in her heavy eyes , and the blood rushed to her pale and sunken cheeks . 
It was a convulsive effort . 
She fell back upon her pillow , and covering her scarred and bruised face with her hands , burst into tears . 
The man cast an anxious look towards her , but otherwise appeared wholly unmoved . 
After a brief pause the nature of the errand was explained , and the oath tendered . 
He didn't hurt me he wouldn't for all the world . 
Jack , dear Jack , you know you wouldn't ! Her sight was fast failing her , and her hand groped over the bedclothes in search of his . 
Brute as the man was , he was not prepared for this . 
He turned his face from the bed , and sobbed . 
The girl's colour changed , and her breathing grew more difficult . 
'Jack , murmured the girl , laying her hand upon his arm , 'they shall not persuade me to swear your life away . 
He didn't do it , gentlemen . 
God bless you , Jack . 
Some kind gentleman take my love to my poor old father . 
Five years ago , he said he wished I had died a child . 
Oh , I wish I had ! I wish I had ! The nurse bent over the girl for a few seconds , and then drew the sheet over her face . 
CHAPTER VII THE MISPLACED ATTACHMENT OF MR . 
To what precise causes the rapid advance of old boy population is to be traced , we are unable to determine . 
at night and who assume all the foppishness and levity of boys , without the excuse of youth or inexperience . 
There was once a fine collection of old boys to be seen round the circular table at Offley's every night , between the hours of half past eight and half past eleven . 
We have lost sight of them for some time . 
Everybody knew them , and it was supposed by some people that they were both immortal . 
, a retired glove and braces maker , a widower , resident with three daughters all grown up , and all unmarried in Cursitor street , Chancery lane . 
And after Mr. Harris and Mr. Jennings had preferred their claims to the character of having been sad dogs too , they separated harmoniously , and trotted home . 
The decrees of Fate , and the means by which they are brought about , are mysterious and inscrutable . 
The sad dog sort of feeling came strongly upon John Dounce he lingered the lady in blue made no sign . 
He coughed still she came not . 
'Can you open me an oyster , my dear ? said Mr. John Dounce . 
'Dare say I can , sir , replied the lady in blue , with playfulness . 
'Can you open me half a dozen more , my dear ? inquired Mr. John Dounce . 
If the young lady had appeared beautiful by night , she was perfectly irresistible by day and , from this time forward , a change came over the spirit of John Dounce's dream . 
Now comes the moral of the story for it has a moral after all . 
CHAPTER VIII THE MISTAKEN MILLINER . 
A TALE OF AMBITION Miss Amelia Martin was pale , tallish , thin , and two and thirty what ill natured people would call plain , and police reports interesting . 
She was a milliner and dressmaker , living on her business and not above it . 
to name the day which would make the aforesaid journeyman a happy husband . 
It was a Monday that was appointed for the celebration of the nuptials , and Miss Amelia Martin was invited , among others , to honour the wedding dinner with her presence . 
It was a charming party Somers town the locality , and a front parlour the apartment . 
To hear them sing separately , was divine , but when they went through the tragic duet of 'Red Ruffian , retire ! it was , as Miss Martin afterwards remarked , 'thrilling . 
So Mr. Jennings Rodolph said he'd think of it . 
Mr. Jennings Rodolph frequently interrupted the progress of the song , by ejaculating 'Beautiful ! 'Charming ! 'Brilliant ! 'Oh ! splendid , c . 
and at its close the admiration of himself , and his lady , knew no bounds . 
'Did you ever hear so sweet a voice , my dear ? inquired Mr. Jennings Rodolph of Mrs. Jennings Rodolph . 
'Never indeed I never did , love , replied Mrs. Jennings Rodolph . 
'Don't you think Miss Martin , with a little cultivation , would be very like Signora Marra Boni , my dear ? asked Mr. Jennings Rodolph . 
'Just exactly the very thing that struck me , my love , answered Mrs. Jennings Rodolph . 
His song had properly seven verses , but as he couldn't recollect more than the first one , he sang that over seven times , apparently very much to his own personal gratification . 
that Miss Amelia Martin's principal foible was vanity , and the leading characteristic of Mrs. Jennings Rodolph an attachment to dress . 
Dismal wailings were heard to issue from the second floor front of number forty seven , Drummond street , George street , Euston square it was Miss Martin practising . 
Half suppressed murmurs disturbed the calm dignity of the White Conduit orchestra at the commencement of the season . 
It was the appearance of Mrs. Jennings Rodolph in full dress , that occasioned them . 
Miss Martin studied incessantly the practising was the consequence . 
Mrs. Jennings Rodolph taught gratuitously now and then the dresses were the result . 
Weeks passed away the White Conduit season had begun , and progressed , and was more than half over . 
The dressmaking business had fallen off , from neglect and its profits had dwindled away almost imperceptibly . 
A benefit night approached Mr. Jennings Rodolph yielded to the earnest solicitations of Miss Amelia Martin , and introduced her personally to the 'comic gentleman' whose benefit it was . 
The comic gentleman was all smiles and blandness he had composed a duet , expressly for the occasion , and Miss Martin should sing it with him . 
Song sentimental by a light haired young gentleman in a blue coat , and bright basket buttons applause . 
Another song , doubtful , by another gentleman in another blue coat and more bright basket buttons increased applause . 
Duet , Mr. Jennings Rodolph , and Mrs. Jennings Rodolph , 'Red Ruffian , retire ! great applause . 
'I am a Friar' enthusiasm . 
and Miss Martin 'The Time of Day . 
'Brayvo ! Brayvo ! cried the ornamental painter's journeyman's party , as Miss Martin was gracefully led in by the comic gentleman . 
'Go to work , Harry , cried the comic gentleman's personal friends . 
'Tap tap tap , went the leader's bow on the music desk . 
The symphony began , and was soon afterwards followed by a faint kind of ventriloquial chirping , proceeding apparently from the deepest recesses of the interior of Miss Amelia Martin . 
'Sing out' shouted one gentleman in a white great coat . 
'Don't be afraid to put the steam on , old gal , exclaimed another , 'S s s s s s s' went the five and twenty bottled ales . 
'Shame , shame ! remonstrated the ornamental painter's journeyman's party 'S s s s' went the bottled ales again , accompanied by all the gins , and a majority of the brandies . 
'Turn them geese out , cried the ornamental painter's journeyman's party , with great indignation . 
'Sing out , whispered Mr. Jennings Rodolph . 
'So I do , responded Miss Amelia Martin . 
'Sing louder , said Mrs. Jennings Rodolph . 
'I can't , replied Miss Amelia Martin . 
'Off , off , off , cried the rest of the audience . 
'Bray vo ! shouted the painter's party . 
It wouldn't do Miss Amelia Martin left the orchestra , with much less ceremony than she had entered it and , as she couldn't sing out , never came out . 
CHAPTER IX THE DANCING ACADEMY Of all the dancing academies that ever were established , there never was one more popular in its immediate vicinity than Signor Billsmethi's , of the 'King's Theatre . 
It was not a dear dancing academy four and sixpence a quarter is decidedly cheap upon the whole . 
It was VERY select , the number of pupils being strictly limited to seventy five , and a quarter's payment in advance being rigidly exacted . 
There was public tuition and private tuition an assembly room and a parlour . 
'And very much delighted I am , Mr. Cooper , said Signor Billsmethi , 'that I did NOT take her . 
'I am very glad of it too , sir , said Augustus Cooper . 
'And I hope we shall be better acquainted , sir , said Signor Billsmethi . 
'And I'm sure I hope we shall too , sir , responded Augustus Cooper . 
'Don't run away , my dear , said Signor Billsmethi , 'this is Mr. Cooper Mr. Cooper , of Fetter lane . 
She dances them all , sir and so shall you , sir , before you're a quarter older , sir . 
There were four other private pupils in the parlour two ladies and two gentlemen . 
Such nice people ! Not a bit of pride about them . 
Mr. Augustus Cooper had ordered a new coat for the occasion a two pound tenner from Turnstile . 
It WAS a night ! Everything was admirably arranged . 
In short , nothing could exceed the arrangements , except the company . 
CHAPTER X SHABBY GENTEEL PEOPLE There are certain descriptions of people who , oddly enough , appear to appertain exclusively to the metropolis . 
A very poor man , 'who has seen better days , as the phrase goes , is a strange compound of dirty slovenliness and wretched attempts at faded smartness . 
We will endeavour to explain our conception of the term which forms the title of this paper . 
He is not shabby genteel . 
A glance at that depressed face , and timorous air of conscious poverty , will make your heart ache always supposing that you are neither a philosopher nor a political economist . 
We were once haunted by a shabby genteel man he was bodily present to our senses all day , and he was in our mind's eye all night . 
He knew too well it was his dinner . 
When we first saw this poor object , we thought it quite impossible that his attire could ever become worse . 
We even went so far , as to speculate on the possibility of his shortly appearing in a decent second hand suit . 
We knew nothing about the matter he grew more and more shabby genteel every day . 
He remained in this state for a week or two . 
At length , one of the buttons on the back of the coat fell off , and then the man himself disappeared , and we thought he was dead . 
He had undergone some strange metamorphosis , and walked up the centre of the room with an air which showed he was fully conscious of the improvement in his appearance . 
His clothes were a fine , deep , glossy black and yet they looked like the same suit nay , there were the very darns with which old acquaintance had made us familiar . 
The hat , too nobody could mistake the shape of that hat , with its high crown gradually increasing in circumference towards the top . 
Long service had imparted to it a reddish brown tint but , now , it was as black as the coat . 
The truth flashed suddenly upon us they had been 'revived . 
It is a deceitful liquid that black and blue reviver we have watched its effects on many a shabby genteel man . 
It betrays its victims into a temporary assumption of importance possibly into the purchase of a new pair of gloves , or a cheap stock , or some other trifling article of dress . 
It elevates their spirits for a week , only to depress them , if possible , below their original level . 
It was so in this case the transient dignity of the unhappy man decreased , in exact proportion as the 'reviver' wore off . 
The knees of the unmentionables , and the elbows of the coat , and the seams generally , soon began to get alarmingly white . 
The hat was once more deposited under the table , and its owner crept into his seat as quietly as ever . 
There was a week of incessant small rain and mist . 
At its expiration the 'reviver' had entirely vanished , and the shabby genteel man never afterwards attempted to effect any improvement in his outward appearance . 
It would be difficult to name any particular part of town as the principal resort of shabby genteel men . 
We have met a great many persons of this description in the neighbourhood of the inns of court . 
We never went on 'Change , by any chance , without seeing some shabby genteel men , and we have often wondered what earthly business they can have there . 
They will sit there , for hours , leaning on great , dropsical , mildewed umbrellas , or eating Abernethy biscuits . 
Nobody speaks to them , nor they to any one . 
It would be a task of equal difficulty , either to assign any particular spot for the residence of these beings , or to endeavour to enumerate their general occupations . 
He may be a clerk of the lowest description , or a contributor to the press of the same grade . 
who feels his poverty and vainly strives to conceal it , is one of the most pitiable objects in human nature . 
Such objects , with few exceptions , are shabby genteel people . 
Many points in their character have , however , grown obsolete . 
If the actions of these heroes , however , can find no parallel in modern times , their friendship can . 
We have Damon and Pythias on the one hand . 
Mr. Thomas Potter , then , was a clerk in the city , and Mr. Robert Smithers was a ditto in the same their incomes were limited , but their friendship was unbounded . 
They were knit together by the closest ties of intimacy and friendship , or , as Mr. Thomas Potter touchingly observed , they were 'thick and thin pals , and nothing but it . 
The peculiarity of their respective dispositions , extended itself to their individual costume . 
, which was immediately drunk by Mr. Robert Smithers , with enthusiastic applause . 
It was just half past eight , so they thought they couldn't do better than go at half price to the slips at the City Theatre , which they did accordingly . 
'Give that dog a bone ! cried one gentleman in his shirt sleeves . 
'Where have you been a having half a pint of intermediate beer ? cried a second . 
'Tailor ! screamed a third . 
'Barber's clerk ! shouted a fourth . 
'Turn them out ! was the general cry . 
Mr. Thomas Potter , however , was valorous and peremptory . 
They had come out to make a night of it and a night must be made . 
The prosecutors WERE spoken to , and Messrs . 
We turned up the street accordingly . 
This was still more extraordinary . 
We could not imagine what earthly business Her Majesty's carriage could have at the Public Office , Bow street . 
The covered vehicle , in which prisoners are conveyed from the police offices to the different prisons , was coming along at full speed . 
The van drew up at the office door , and the people thronged round the steps , just leaving a little alley for the prisoners to pass through . 
Our friend the cobbler , and the other stragglers , crossed over , and we followed their example . 
The driver , and another man who had been seated by his side in front of the vehicle , dismounted , and were admitted into the office . 
The office door was closed after them , and the crowd were on the tiptoe of expectation . 
After a few minutes' delay , the door again opened , and the two first prisoners appeared . 
They were a couple of girls , of whom the elder could not be more than sixteen , and the younger of whom had certainly not attained her fourteenth year . 
'How long are you for , Emily ? screamed a red faced woman in the crowd . 
Hold up your head , you chicken , she continued , boisterously tearing the other girl's handkerchief away 'Hold up your head , and show 'em your face . 
'Right ! replied the girl 'ah , to be sure what's the odds , eh ? 'Come ! In with you , interrupted the driver . 
'Come down , and let's show you the way . 
And after jerking the miserable girl down with a force which made her stagger on the pavement , she got into the vehicle , and was followed by her wretched companion . 
These two girls had been thrown upon London streets , their vices and debauchery , by a sordid and rapacious mother . 
What the younger girl was then , the elder had been once and what the elder then was , the younger must soon become . 
These things pass before our eyes , day after day , and hour after hour they have become such matters of course , that they are utterly disregarded . 
The progress of these girls in crime will be as rapid as the flight of a pestilence , resembling it too in its baneful influence and wide spreading infection . 
Our curiosity , however , was satisfied . 
The first group had left an impression on our mind we would gladly have avoided , and would willingly have effaced . 
The crowd dispersed the vehicle rolled away with its load of guilt and misfortune and we saw no more of the Prisoners' Van . 
TALES CHAPTER I THE BOARDING HOUSE . 
The wonder was , that the brass door plate , with the interesting inscription 'MRS . 
TIBBS , had never caught fire from constant friction , so perseveringly was it polished . 
The bell lamp in the passage looked as clear as a soap bubble you could see yourself in all the tables , and French polish yourself on any one of the chairs . 
The banisters were bees waxed and the very stair wires made your eyes wink , they were so glittering . 
Mrs. Tibbs was somewhat short of stature , and Mr. Tibbs was by no means a large man . 
He had , moreover , very short legs , but , by way of indemnification , his face was peculiarly long . 
He was to his wife what the is in he was of some importance WITH her he was nothing without her . 
Mrs. Tibbs was always talking . 
Mr. Tibbs rarely spoke but , if it were at any time possible to put in a word , when he should have said nothing at all , he had that talent . 
Mrs. Tibbs detested long stories , and Mr. Tibbs had one , the conclusion of which had never been heard by his most intimate friends . 
He was a melancholy specimen of the story teller . 
He was the wandering Jew of Joe Millerism . 
Mr. Tibbs enjoyed a small independence from the pension list about L. S. D. a year . 
Great Coram street was the spot pitched upon . 
couldn't think of putting up with that 'I . 
O. U. didn't think the terms would suit him and 'G . 
R. had never slept in a French bed . 
The result , however , was , that three gentlemen became inmates of Mrs. Tibbs's house , on terms which were 'agreeable to all parties . 
In went the advertisement again , and a lady with her two daughters , proposed to increase not their families , but Mrs. Tibbs's . 
'Charming woman , that Mrs. Maplesone ! said Mrs. Tibbs , as she and her spouse were sitting by the fire after breakfast the gentlemen having gone out on their several avocations . 
'Charming woman , indeed ! repeated little Mrs. Tibbs , more by way of soliloquy than anything else , for she never thought of consulting her husband . 
'And the two daughters are delightful . 
We must have some fish to day they'll join us at dinner for the first time . 
Mr. Tibbs placed the poker at right angles with the fire shovel , and essayed to speak , but recollected he had nothing to say . 
'The young ladies , continued Mrs. T. , 'have kindly volunteered to bring their own piano . 
Tibbs thought of the volunteer story , but did not venture it . 
A bright thought struck him 'It's very likely said he . 
'Pray don't lean your head against the paper , interrupted Mrs. Tibbs 'and don't put your feet on the steel fender that's worse . 
Tibbs took his head from the paper , and his feet from the fender , and proceeded . 
'It's very likely one of the young ladies may set her cap at young Mr. Simpson , and you know a marriage 'A what ! shrieked Mrs. Tibbs . 
Tibbs modestly repeated his former suggestion . 
'I beg you won't mention such a thing , said Mrs. T. 'A marriage , indeed to rob me of my boarders no , not for the world . 
He always went out at ten o'clock in the morning , and returned at five in the afternoon , with an exceedingly dirty face , and smelling mouldy . 
Nobody knew what he was , or where he went but Mrs. Tibbs used to say with an air of great importance , that he was engaged in the City . 
The Miss Maplesones and their accomplished parent arrived in the course of the afternoon in a hackney coach , and accompanied by a most astonishing number of packages . 
Little Mrs. Tibbs was quite in her element , bustling about , talking incessantly , and distributing towels and soap , like a head nurse in a hospital . 
He was fond of 'lugging' into conversation all sorts of quotations from Don Juan , without fettering himself by the propriety of their application in which particular he was remarkably independent . 
He was as empty headed as the great bell of St . 
'Materials for the toilet , no doubt , rejoined the Don Juan reader . 
'Is that from Milton ? inquired Mr. Simpson . 
'No from Byron , returned Mr. Hicks , with a look of contempt . 
He was quite sure of his author , because he had never read any other . 
'Hush ! Here come the gals , and they both commenced talking in a very loud key . 
Maplesone and the Miss Maplesones , Mr. Hicks . 
Simpson , I beg your pardon Mr. Simpson Mrs. Maplesone and the Miss Maplesones' and VICE VERSA . 
'Julia , my love , said Mrs. Maplesone to her youngest daughter , in a tone loud enough for the remainder of the company to hear 'Julia . 
This was said for the purpose of directing general attention to Miss Julia's figure , which was undeniable . 
Everybody looked at her , accordingly , and there was another pause . 
'We had the most uncivil hackney coachman to day , you can imagine , said Mrs. Maplesone to Mrs. Tibbs , in a confidential tone . 
'Dear me ! replied the hostess , with an air of great commiseration . 
She couldn't say more , for the servant again appeared at the door , and commenced telegraphing most earnestly to her 'Missis . 
'I think hackney coachmen generally ARE uncivil , said Mr. Hicks in his most insinuating tone . 
'Positively I think they are , replied Mrs. Maplesone , as if the idea had never struck her before . 
'And cabmen , too , said Mr. Simpson . 
This remark was a failure , for no one intimated , by word or sign , the slightest knowledge of the manners and customs of cabmen . 
'Please , ma'am , master wants his clean things , replied the servant , taken off her guard . 
Mr. Calton , the remaining boarder , shortly afterwards made his appearance , and proved a surprising promoter of the conversation . 
Mr. Calton was a superannuated beau an old boy . 
He used to say of himself that although his features were not regularly handsome , they were striking . 
He had stood still , while everything else had been moving . 
He had never been married but he was still on the look out for a wife with money . 
He had a life interest worth about L. a year he was exceedingly vain , and inordinately selfish . 
He had acquired the reputation of being the very pink of politeness , and he walked round the park , and up Regent street , every day . 
A little flirtation , she thought , might keep her house full , without leading to any other result . 
Mrs. Maplesone was an enterprising widow of about fifty shrewd , scheming , and good looking . 
The 'dear girls' themselves were not at all insensible to the merits of 'a good establishment . 
One of them was twenty five the other , three years younger . 
'What a magnificent dresser Mr. Simpson is ! whispered Matilda Maplesone to her sister Julia . 
'Splendid ! returned the youngest . 
'What whiskers ! said Miss Julia . 
'Dinner's on the table , ma'am , if you please , said the boy , who now appeared for the first time , in a revived black coat of his master's . 
'Oh ! Mr. Calton , will you lead Mrs. Maplesone ? Thank you . 
Mr. Simpson offered his arm to Miss Julia Mr. Septimus Hicks escorted the lovely Matilda and the procession proceeded to the dining room . 
Salmon , lobster sauce , giblet soup , and the usual accompaniments were discovered potatoes like petrifactions , and bits of toasted bread , the shape and size of blank dice . 
'Soup for Mrs. Maplesone , my dear , said the bustling Mrs. Tibbs . 
She always called her husband 'my dear' before company . 
'Julia is a VERY little eater , said Mrs. Maplesone to Mr. Calton . 
The knocker gave a single rap . 
Tibbs thought the frown referred to the island on the table cloth he therefore coolly replied , 'Why I'll take a little fish , I think . 
'Did you say fish , my dear ? . 
'Yes , dear , replied the villain , with an expression of acute hunger depicted in his countenance . 
'James , take this to your master , and take away your master's knife . 
This was deliberate revenge , as Tibbs never could eat fish without one . 
'Take away , James , said Mrs. Tibbs , as Tibbs swallowed the fourth mouthful and away went the plates like lightning . 
'I'll take a bit of bread , James , said the poor 'master of the house , more hungry than ever . 
'Never mind your master now , James , said Mrs. Tibbs , 'see about the meat . 
No one ever thought of him . 
Between the fish and an intimated sirloin , there was a prolonged interval . 
Here was an opportunity for Mr. Hicks . 
'Very ungentlemanly behaviour , thought little Mrs. Tibbs , 'to talk in that way . 
'Ah , said Mr. Calton , filling his glass . 
'Tom Moore is my poet . 
'And mine , said Mrs. Maplesone . 
'And mine , said Miss Julia . 
'And mine , added Mr. Simpson . 
'Look at his compositions , resumed the knocker . 
'To be sure , said Simpson , with confidence . 
'Look at Don Juan , replied Mr. Septimus Hicks . 
'Julia's letter , suggested Miss Matilda . 
'Can anything be grander than the Fire Worshippers ? inquired Miss Julia . 
'To be sure , said Simpson . 
'Or Paradise and the Peri , said the old beau . 
'Yes or Paradise and the Peer , repeated Simpson , who thought he was getting through it capitally . 
'It's all very well , replied Mr. Septimus Hicks , who , as we have before hinted , never had read anything but Don Juan . 
, Tibbs 'Tell your master , James , interrupted Mrs. Tibbs , in an awfully distinct tone , 'tell your master if he WON'T carve those fowls , to send them to me . 
The discomfited volunteer instantly set to work , and carved the fowls almost as expeditiously as his wife operated on the haunch of mutton . 
Whether he ever finished the story is not known but , if he did , nobody heard it . 
As the ice was now broken , and the new inmates more at home , every member of the company felt more at ease . 
Tibbs himself most certainly did , because he went to sleep immediately after dinner . 
Mr. Hicks and the ladies discoursed most eloquently about poetry , and the theatres , and Lord Chesterfield's Letters and Mr. Calton followed up what everybody said , with continuous double knocks . 
The gentlemen rejoined the ladies in the drawing room very shortly after they had left the dining parlour . 
Mrs. Maplesone and Mr. Calton played cribbage , and the 'young people' amused themselves with music and conversation . 
The Miss Maplesones sang the most fascinating duets , and accompanied themselves on guitars , ornamented with bits of ethereal blue ribbon . 
dressing room on the second floor back . 
'Tell Mr. Calton I'll come down directly , said Mr. Septimus to the boy . 
'Stop is Mr. Calton unwell ? inquired this excited walker of hospitals , as he put on a bed furniture looking dressing gown . 
'Not as I knows on , sir , replied the boy . 
Please , sir , he looked rather rum , as it might be . 
'Ah , that's no proof of his being ill , returned Hicks , unconsciously . 
'Very well I'll be down directly . 
Downstairs ran the boy with the message , and down went the excited Hicks himself , almost as soon as the message was delivered . 
Door opens , and discovers Mr. Calton sitting in an easy chair . 
Mutual shakes of the hand exchanged , and Mr. Septimus Hicks motioned to a seat . 
Mr. Hicks coughed , and Mr. Calton took a pinch of snuff . 
It was one of those interviews where neither party knows what to say . 
Mr. Septimus Hicks broke silence . 
'I received a note he said , very tremulously , in a voice like a Punch with a cold . 
'Yes , returned the other , 'you did . 
The conversation had been opened , however , and Mr. Calton had made up his mind to continue it with a regular double knock . 
He always spoke very pompously . 
'Hicks , said he , 'I have sent for you , in consequence of certain arrangements which are pending in this house , connected with a marriage . 
'With a marriage ! gasped Hicks , compared with whose expression of countenance , Hamlet's , when he sees his father's ghost , is pleasing and composed . 
'With a marriage , returned the knocker . 
'I have sent for you to prove the great confidence I can repose in you . 
'And will you betray me ? eagerly inquired Hicks , who in his alarm had even forgotten to quote . 
'People must know that , some time or other within a year , I imagine , said Mr. Calton , with an air of great self complacency . 
'We MAY have a family . 
'WE ! That won't affect you , surely ? 'The devil it won't ! 'No ! how can it ? said the bewildered Hicks . 
Calton was too much inwrapped in the contemplation of his happiness to see the equivoque between Hicks and himself and threw himself back in his chair . 
'Oh , Matilda ! 'What Matilda ? inquired Hicks , starting up . 
'Matilda Maplesone , responded the other , doing the same . 
'I marry her to morrow morning , said Hicks . 
'It's false , rejoined his companion 'I marry her ! 'You marry her ? 'I marry her ! 'You marry Matilda Maplesone ? 'Matilda Maplesone . 
'MISS Maplesone marry YOU ? 'Miss Maplesone ! No Mrs. Maplesone . 
'I should have been most happy , I assure you , said Hicks , in a tone of condolence 'but , you see , I shall be acting as bridegroom . 
One character is frequently a consequence of the other but it is not usual to act in both at the same time . 
There's Simpson I have no doubt he'll do it for you . 
'I don't like to ask him , replied Calton , 'he's such a donkey . 
Mr. Septimus Hicks looked up at the ceiling , and down at the floor at last an idea struck him . 
It's a natural delicacy , after all , you know . 
'He's the best natured little man in existence , if you manage him properly , said Mr. Septimus Hicks . 
'Tell him not to mention it to his wife , and assure him she won't mind it , and he'll do it directly . 
My marriage is to be a secret one , on account of the mother and MY father therefore he must be enjoined to secrecy . 
A small double knock , like a presumptuous single one , was that instant heard at the street door . 
It was Tibbs it could be no one else for no one else occupied five minutes in rubbing his shoes . 
He had been out to pay the baker's bill . 
Tibbs , called Mr. Calton in a very bland tone , looking over the banisters . 
'Sir ! replied he of the dirty face . 
'Will you have the kindness to step up stairs for a moment ? 'Certainly , sir , said Tibbs , delighted to be taken notice of . 
, and been accommodated with a seat , looked as astounded as if he were suddenly summoned before the familiars of the Inquisition . 
Tibbs acquiesced , wondering in his own mind what the deuce the other could have done , and imagining that at least he must have broken the best decanters . 
Mr. Calton resumed 'I am placed , Mr. Tibbs , in rather an unpleasant situation . 
And he drew back his chair , several feet , to perceive the effect of the unlooked for announcement . 
'You are not surprised , Mr. Tibbs ? inquired Mr. Calton . 
'Bless you , no , sir , returned Tibbs 'after all , its very natural . 
When two young people get together , you know 'Certainly , certainly , said Calton , with an indescribable air of self satisfaction . 
'You don't think it's at all an out of the way affair then ? asked Mr. Septimus Hicks , who had watched the countenance of Tibbs in mute astonishment . 
'No , sir , replied Tibbs 'I was just the same at his age . 
He actually smiled when he said this . 
'How devilish well I must carry my years ! thought the delighted old beau , knowing he was at least ten years older than Tibbs at that moment . 
'You will not ? 'Decidedly not , reiterated Tibbs , still as calm as a pot of porter with the head off . 
Mr. Calton seized the hand of the petticoat governed little man , and vowed eternal friendship from that hour . 
Hicks , who was all admiration and surprise , did the same . 
'So sudden , said Septimus Hicks . 
'So strange to ask ME , you know , said Tibbs . 
'So odd altogether ! said the superannuated love maker and then all three laughed . 
'Yes but the best of it is , said the latter , giggling in his turn , 'I haven't got a father he ! he ! he ! 'You haven't got a father . 
No but HE has , said Tibbs . 
'WHO has ? inquired Septimus Hicks . 
'Him , who ? Do you know my secret ? Do you mean me ? 'You ! No you know who I mean , returned Tibbs with a knowing wink . 
'For Heaven's sake , whom do you mean ? inquired Mr. Calton , who , like Septimus Hicks , was all but out of his senses at the strange confusion . 
Whatever they were , however , they were successful . 
The mother was perfectly aware of the intended marriage of both daughters and the young ladies were equally acquainted with the intention of their estimable parent . 
Hence , the mystification of Mr. Calton and Mr. Septimus Hicks , and the pre engagement of the unwary Tibbs . 
On the following morning , Mr. Septimus Hicks was united to Miss Matilda Maplesone . 
Mr. Simpson also entered into a 'holy alliance' with Miss Julia Tibbs acting as father , 'his first appearance in that character . 
The lady , however , 'appealed , as her counsel said on the trial of the cause , MAPLESONE v . 
CALTON , for a breach of promise , 'with a broken heart , to the outraged laws of her country . 
She recovered damages to the amount of , L. which the unfortunate knocker was compelled to pay . 
Mr. Septimus Hicks having walked the hospitals , took it into his head to walk off altogether . 
His injured wife is at present residing with her mother at Boulogne . 
In this situation he had necessarily many opportunities of making himself acquainted with the habits , and style of thinking , of the exclusive portion of the nobility of this kingdom . 
It only remains to add , that this complication of disorders completely deprived poor Mrs. Tibbs of all her inmates , except the one whom she could have best spared her husband . 
It is possible that he will be enabled to finish , in that seclusion , his story of the volunteers . 
The advertisement has again appeared in the morning papers . 
Results must be reserved for another chapter . 
The house was as quiet as possible . 
The postman drew near the house . 
He paused so did Mrs. Tibbs . 
A knock a bustle a letter post paid . 
to I. T. and T. I. begs To say that i see the advertisement And she will Do Herself the pleasure of calling On you at o'clock to morrow morning . 
I. as To apologise to I. T. for the shortness Of the notice But i hope it will not unconvenience you . 
'I remain yours Truly 'Wednesday evening . 
I. and the transition from the 'I . 
One thing , however , was perfectly clear to the perplexed Mrs. Tibbs . 
Somebody was to call at twelve . 
Down went the piece of stair carpet before noticed , and up ran Mrs. Tibbs 'to make herself tidy . 
was shown into the drawing room Mrs. Tibbs presented herself , and the negotiation commenced . 
'I called in consequence of an advertisement , said the stranger , in a voice as if she had been playing a set of Pan's pipes for a fortnight without leaving off . 
'Yes ! said Mrs. Tibbs , rubbing her hands very slowly , and looking the applicant full in the face two things she always did on such occasions . 
'Money isn't no object whatever to me , said the lady , 'so much as living in a state of retirement and obtrusion . 
Mrs. Tibbs , as a matter of course , acquiesced in such an exceedingly natural desire . 
Mrs. Tibbs looked at the relict of the departed Bloss , and thought he must have had very little peace in his time . 
Of course she could not say so so she looked very sympathising . 
'I shall be a good deal of trouble to you , said Mrs. Bloss 'but , for that trouble I am willing to pay . 
I am going through a course of treatment which renders attention necessary . 
I have one mutton chop in bed at half past eight , and another at ten , every morning . 
'Now mind , said that lady , after terms were arranged 'I am to have the second floor front , for my bed room ? 'Yes , ma'am . 
'And you'll find room for my little servant Agnes ? 'Oh ! certainly . 
'And I can have one of the cellars in the area for my bottled porter . 
'With the greatest pleasure James shall get it ready for you by Saturday . 
'And I'll join the company at the breakfast table on Sunday morning , said Mrs. Bloss . 
'I shall get up on purpose . 
His apartment is the back drawing room . 
'The next room ? inquired Mrs. Bloss . 
'The next room , repeated the hostess . 
'How very promiscuous ! ejaculated the widow . 
'He hardly ever gets up , said Mrs. Tibbs in a whisper . 
'Lor ! cried Mrs. Bloss , in an equally low tone . 
'And when he is up , said Mrs. Tibbs , 'we never can persuade him to go to bed again . 
'Dear me ! said the astonished Mrs. Bloss , drawing her chair nearer Mrs. Tibbs . 
'What is his complaint ? 'Why , the fact is , replied Mrs. Tibbs , with a most communicative air , 'he has no stomach whatever . 
'No what ? inquired Mrs. Bloss , with a look of the most indescribable alarm . 
'No stomach , repeated Mrs. Tibbs , with a shake of the head . 
'Never heard such a case in my life ! exclaimed Mrs. Bloss . 
'Why , he's worse than I am . 
'Oh , yes ! replied Mrs. Tibbs 'certainly . 
She said this with great confidence , for the damson pelisse suggested that Mrs. Bloss , at all events , was not suffering under Mr. Gobler's complaint . 
'You have quite incited my curiosity , said Mrs. Bloss , as she rose to depart . 
'How I long to see him ! 'He generally comes down , once a week , replied Mrs. Tibbs 'I dare say you'll see him on Sunday . 
With this consolatory promise Mrs. Bloss was obliged to be contented . 
She accordingly walked slowly down the stairs , detailing her complaints all the way and Mrs. Tibbs followed her , uttering an exclamation of compassion at every step . 
fell up the kitchen stairs , and opened the street door and , after mutual farewells , Mrs. Bloss slowly departed , down the shady side of the street . 
was exceedingly vulgar , ignorant , and selfish . 
Her deceased better half had been an eminent cork cutter , in which capacity he had amassed a decent fortune . 
He had no relative but his nephew , and no friend but his cook . 
, and a bequest of his whole property to his wife . 
He felt ill after breakfast , and died after dinner . 
There is a mantelpiece looking tablet in a civic parish church , setting forth his virtues , and deploring his loss . 
He never dishonoured a bill , or gave away a halfpenny . 
The relict and sole executrix of this noble minded man was an odd mixture of shrewdness and simplicity , liberality and meanness . 
Wosky , and her handmaid Agnes both of whom , doubtless for good reasons , encouraged all her extravagant notions . 
Since the catastrophe recorded in the last chapter , Mrs. Tibbs had been very shy of young lady boarders . 
Her present inmates were all lords of the creation , and she availed herself of the opportunity of their assemblage at the dinner table , to announce the expected arrival of Mrs. Bloss . 
The gentlemen received the communication with stoical indifference , and Mrs. Tibbs devoted all her energies to prepare for the reception of the valetudinarian . 
The second floor front was scrubbed , and washed , and flannelled , till the wet went through to the drawing room ceiling . 
The warming pan was in constant requisition , and a fire lighted in the room every day . 
The chattels of Mrs. Bloss were forwarded by instalments . 
'Well , I never ! said Mrs. Bloss . 
And please , ma'am , the servants gives him gin and water sometimes and then he cries , and says he hates his wife and the boarders , and wants to tickle them . 
'Tickle the boarders ! exclaimed Mrs. Bloss , seriously alarmed . 
'No , ma'am , not the boarders , the servants . 
'Oh , is that all ! said Mrs. Bloss , quite satisfied . 
He had no one to whom he could detail his injuries but the servants , and they were almost of necessity his chosen confidants . 
It is no less strange than true , however , that the little weaknesses which he had incurred , most probably during his military career , seemed to increase as his comforts diminished . 
He was actually a sort of journeyman Giovanni of the basement story . 
The next morning , being Sunday , breakfast was laid in the front parlour at ten o'clock . 
Nine was the usual time , but the family always breakfasted an hour later on sabbath . 
Nobody had come down , and he amused himself by drinking the contents of the milkpot with a teaspoon . 
A pair of slippers were heard descending the stairs . 
'Good morning , Mr. Evenson , said Tibbs , very humbly , with something between a nod and a bow . 
'How do you do , Mr. Tibbs ? replied he of the slippers , as he sat himself down , and began to read his paper without saying another word . 
'Is Mr. Wisbottle in town to day , do you know , sir ? inquired Tibbs , just for the sake of saying something . 
'I should think he was , replied the stern gentleman . 
'He was whistling The Light Guitar , in the next room to mine , at five o'clock this morning . 
'He's very fond of whistling , said Tibbs , with a slight smirk . 
'Yes I ain't , was the laconic reply . 
Mr. John Evenson was in the receipt of an independent income , arising chiefly from various houses he owned in the different suburbs . 
He was very morose and discontented . 
He was a thorough radical , and used to attend a great variety of public meetings , for the express purpose of finding fault with everything that was proposed . 
Mr. Wisbottle , on the other hand , was a high Tory . 
He had a good set of teeth , and a capital tailor . 
Mr. Evenson looked on all these qualifications with profound contempt and the consequence was that the two were always disputing , much to the edification of the rest of the house . 
It should be added , that , in addition to his partiality for whistling , Mr. Wisbottle had a great idea of his singing powers . 
There were two other boarders , besides the gentleman in the back drawing room Mr. Alfred Tomkins and Mr. Frederick O'Bleary . 
Mr. Tomkins was a clerk in a wine house he was a connoisseur in paintings , and had a wonderful eye for the picturesque . 
He was on familiar terms with two small Irish members , and got franks for everybody in the house . 
He felt convinced that his intrinsic merits must procure him a high destiny . 
He wore shepherd's plaid inexpressibles , and used to look under all the ladies' bonnets as he walked along the streets . 
His manners and appearance reminded one of Orson . 
'Here comes Mr. Wisbottle , said Tibbs and Mr. Wisbottle forthwith appeared in blue slippers , and a shawl dressing gown , whistling 'DI PIACER . 
'Good morning , sir , said Tibbs again . 
It was almost the only thing he ever said to anybody 'How are you , Tibbs ? condescendingly replied the amateur and he walked to the window , and whistled louder than ever . 
'Pretty air , that ! said Evenson , with a snarl , and without taking his eyes off the paper . 
'Glad you like it , replied Wisbottle , highly gratified . 
'Don't you think it would sound better , if you whistled it a little louder ? inquired the mastiff . 
'No I don't think it would , rejoined the unconscious Wisbottle . 
interrupted the threat , and prevented its conclusion . 
Mrs. Tibbs apologised for being down rather late the bell was rung James brought up the urn , and received an unlimited order for dry toast and bacon . 
Tibbs sat down at the bottom of the table , and began eating water cresses like a Nebuchadnezzar . 
Mr. O'Bleary appeared , and Mr. Alfred Tomkins . 
The compliments of the morning were exchanged , and the tea was made . 
'God bless me ! exclaimed Tomkins , who had been looking out at the window . 
'Here Wisbottle pray come here make haste . 
Mr. Wisbottle started from the table , and every one looked up . 
'I never saw an object stand out so beautifully against the clear sky in my life , ejaculated Alfred . 
echoed the sentiment for Mr. Tomkins had a great character for finding out beauties which no one else could discover he certainly deserved it . 
A general rush was made for a chair , and a regular introduction took place . 
We repel the calumny , and challenge contradiction . 
Mrs. Tibbs inquired after Mrs. Bloss's health in a low tone . 
'Yes , replied Orson , with a mouthful of toast . 
'Never saw anything like it before , I suppose ? suggested Wisbottle . 
'No except the Lord Lieutenant's levees , replied O'Bleary . 
'What was he presented on ? inquired Evenson . 
'On his arrival in England . 
'I thought so , growled the radical 'you never hear of these fellows being presented on their going away again . 
They know better than that . 
'Unless somebody pervades them with an apintment , said Mrs. Bloss , joining in the conversation in a faint voice . 
'Well , said Wisbottle , evading the point , 'it's a splendid sight . 
'Well , and it has occurred to me too , replied John Evenson , 'and I ain't willing to pay for 'em . 
Then why should I ? I say , why should I ? continued the politician , laying down the paper , and knocking his knuckles on the table . 
'There are two great principles demand 'A cup of tea if you please , dear , interrupted Tibbs . 
'And supply 'May I trouble you to hand this tea to Mr. Tibbs ? said Mrs. Tibbs , interrupting the argument , and unconsciously illustrating it . 
The thread of the orator's discourse was broken . 
He drank his tea and resumed the paper . 
'If it's very fine , said Mr. Alfred Tomkins , addressing the company in general , 'I shall ride down to Richmond to day , and come back by the steamer . 
There are some splendid effects of light and shade on the Thames the contrast between the blueness of the sky and the yellow water is frequently exceedingly beautiful . 
Mr. Wisbottle hummed , 'Flow on , thou shining river . 
'We have some splendid steam vessels in Ireland , said O'Bleary . 
'Certainly , said Mrs. Bloss , delighted to find a subject broached in which she could take part . 
'The accommodations are extraordinary , said O'Bleary . 
'Extraordinary indeed , returned Mrs. Bloss . 
'When Mr. Bloss was alive , he was promiscuously obligated to go to Ireland on business . 
I went with him , and raly the manner in which the ladies and gentlemen were accommodated with berths , is not creditable . 
Tibbs , who had been listening to the dialogue , looked aghast , and evinced a strong inclination to ask a question , but was checked by a look from his wife . 
Mr. Wisbottle laughed , and said Tomkins had made a pun and Tomkins laughed too , and said he had not . 
The remainder of the meal passed off as breakfasts usually do . 
Conversation flagged , and people played with their teaspoons . 
The gentlemen looked out at the window walked about the room and , when they got near the door , dropped off one by one . 
Tibbs retired to the back parlour by his wife's orders , to check the green grocer's weekly account and ultimately Mrs. Tibbs and Mrs. Bloss were left alone together . 
'Oh dear ! said the latter , 'I feel alarmingly faint it's very singular . 
'By the bye , said Mrs. Bloss , 'I have not seen Mr. What's his name yet . 
Gobler ? suggested Mrs. Tibbs . 
'Oh ! said Mrs. Tibbs , 'he is a most mysterious person . 
He has his meals regularly sent up stairs , and sometimes don't leave his room for weeks together . 
'I haven't seen or heard nothing of him , repeated Mrs. Bloss . 
'I dare say you'll hear him to night , replied Mrs. Tibbs 'he generally groans a good deal on Sunday evenings . 
'I never felt such an interest in any one in my life , ejaculated Mrs. Bloss . 
A little double knock interrupted the conversation Dr . 
Wosky was announced , and duly shown in . 
He was a little man with a red face dressed of course in black , with a stiff white neckerchief . 
Mrs. Tibbs offered to retire , but was entreated to stay . 
'Well , my dear ma'am , and how are we ? inquired Wosky , in a soothing tone . 
'How is our appetite ? Mrs. Bloss shook her head . 
'Our friend requires great care , said Wosky , appealing to Mrs. Tibbs , who of course assented . 
'I hope , however , with the blessing of Providence , that we shall be enabled to make her quite stout again . 
Mrs. Tibbs wondered in her own mind what the patient would be when she was made quite stout . 
'We must take stimulants , said the cunning Wosky 'plenty of nourishment , and , above all , we must keep our nerves quiet we positively must not give way to our sensibilities . 
We must take all we can get , concluded the doctor , as he pocketed his fee , 'and we must keep quiet . 
'Dear man ! exclaimed Mrs. Bloss , as the doctor stepped into the carriage . 
'Charming creature indeed quite a lady's man ! said Mrs. Tibbs , and Dr . 
Wosky rattled away to make fresh gulls of delicate females , and pocket fresh fees . 
We will therefore proceed to events , merely premising that the mysterious tenant of the back drawing room was a lazy , selfish hypochondriac always complaining and never ill . 
As his character in many respects closely assimilated to that of Mrs. Bloss , a very warm friendship soon sprung up between them . 
He found it at last . 
One evening , the different inmates of the house were assembled in the drawing room engaged in their ordinary occupations . 
From my bedroom I distinctly heard voices there , last night . 
I opened my door immediately , and crept very softly on to the landing there I saw Mr. Tibbs , who , it seems , had been disturbed also . 
Bless me , Mrs. Tibbs , you change colour ! 'No , no it's nothing , returned Mrs. T. in a hurried manner 'it's only the heat of the room . 
'A flush ! ejaculated Mrs. Bloss from the card table 'that's good for four . 
'If I thought it was Mr. Wisbottle , said Mrs. Tibbs , after a pause , 'he should leave this house instantly . 
'Go ! said Mrs. Bloss again . 
'And if I thought , continued the hostess with a most threatening air , 'if I thought he was assisted by Mr. Tibbs 'One for his nob ! said Gobler . 
'Oh , said Evenson , in a most soothing tone he liked to make mischief 'I should hope Mr. Tibbs was not in any way implicated . 
He always appeared to me very harmless . 
'I have generally found him so , sobbed poor little Mrs. Tibbs crying like a watering pot . 
'Hush ! hush ! pray Mrs. Tibbs consider we shall be observed pray , don't ! said John Evenson , fearing his whole plan would be interrupted . 
'We will set the matter at rest with the utmost care , and I shall be most happy to assist you in doing so . 
Mrs. Tibbs murmured her thanks . 
Mrs. Tibbs was easily persuaded her curiosity was excited , her jealousy was roused , and the arrangement was forthwith made . 
She resumed her work , and John Evenson walked up and down the room with his hands in his pockets , looking as if nothing had happened . 
The game of cribbage was over , and conversation began again . 
'Never saw anything like that Captain Ross's set out eh ? 'No , returned the patriot , with his usual reservation 'except in Dublin . 
'I saw the Count de Canky and Captain Fitzthompson in the Gardens , said Wisbottle 'they appeared much delighted . 
'Then it MUST be beautiful , snarled Evenson . 
'I think the white bears is partickerlerly well done , suggested Mrs. Bloss . 
'Capital things those shower baths ! ejaculated Wisbottle . 
'Delightful ! chimed in O'Bleary . 
'Disgusting machines ! rejoined Evenson , who extended his dislike to almost every created object , masculine , feminine , or neuter . 
'Disgusting , Mr. Evenson ! said Gobler , in a tone of strong indignation . 
'Disgusting ! Look at their utility consider how many lives they have saved by promoting perspiration . 
'Gad , I was in it once , and it effectually cured ME , for the mere sight of it threw me into a profuse perspiration for six months afterwards . 
The boy disappeared , and returned again with another tray , containing glasses and jugs of hot and cold water . 
The gentlemen brought in their spirit bottles the housemaid placed divers plated bedroom candlesticks under the card table and the servants retired for the night . 
Chairs were drawn round the table , and the conversation proceeded in the customary manner . 
John Evenson , who never ate supper , lolled on the sofa , and amused himself by contradicting everybody . 
An hour or two passed away and the boarders and the plated candlesticks retired in pairs to their respective bedrooms . 
John Evenson pulled off his boots , locked his door , and determined to sit up until Mr. Gobler had retired . 
He always sat in the drawing room an hour after everybody else had left it , taking medicine , and groaning . 
Great Coram street was hushed into a state of profound repose it was nearly two o'clock . 
A low , monotonous , gushing sound was heard , which added considerably to the romantic dreariness of the scene . 
It was the water 'coming in' at number eleven . 
'He must be asleep by this time , said John Evenson to himself , after waiting with exemplary patience for nearly an hour after Mr. Gobler had left the drawing room . 
He listened for a few moments the house was perfectly quiet he extinguished his rushlight , and opened his bedroom door . 
The staircase was so dark that it was impossible to see anything . 
'S s s ! whispered the mischief maker , making a noise like the first indication a catherine wheel gives of the probability of its going off . 
'Hush ! whispered somebody else . 
'Is that you , Mrs. Tibbs ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Where ? 'Here and the misty outline of Mrs. Tibbs appeared at the staircase window , like the ghost of Queen Anne in the tent scene in Richard . 
You have no shoes on , have you ? 'No , said little Mrs. Tibbs , who could hardly speak for trembling . 
'It's Wisbottle and somebody , I'll swear , exclaimed the radical in an energetic whisper , when they had listened for a few moments . 
'Hush pray let's hear what they say ! exclaimed Mrs. Tibbs , the gratification of whose curiosity was now paramount to every other consideration . 
'Ah ! if I could but believe you , said a female voice coquettishly , 'I'd be bound to settle my missis for life . 
'What does she say ? inquired Mr. Evenson , who was not quite so well situated as his companion . 
'She says she'll settle her missis's life , replied Mrs. Tibbs . 
'The wretch ! they're plotting murder . 
'I know you want money , continued the voice , which belonged to Agnes 'and if you'd secure me the five hundred pound , I warrant she should take fire soon enough . 
'What's that ? inquired Evenson again . 
He could just hear enough to want to hear more . 
'I think she says she'll set the house on fire , replied the affrighted Mrs. Tibbs . 
'Bless my soul , it's Mr. O'Bleary ! exclaimed Mrs. Tibbs , in a parenthesis . 
'The villain ! said the indignant Mr. Evenson . 
'The first thing to be done , continued the Hibernian , 'is to poison Mr. Gobler's mind . 
'Oh , certainly , returned Agnes . 
'What's that ? inquired Evenson again , in an agony of curiosity and a whisper . 
'He says she's to mind and poison Mr. Gobler , replied Mrs. Tibbs , aghast at this sacrifice of human life . 
'And in regard of Mrs. Tibbs , continued O'Bleary . 
'Hush ! exclaimed Agnes , in a tone of the greatest alarm , just as Mrs. Tibbs was on the extreme verge of a fainting fit . 
'Hush ! 'Hush ! exclaimed Evenson , at the same moment to Mrs. Tibbs . 
'There's somebody coming UP stairs , said Agnes to O'Bleary . 
'There's somebody coming DOWN stairs , whispered Evenson to Mrs. Tibbs . 
'Go into the parlour , sir , said Agnes to her companion . 
'You will get there , before whoever it is , gets to the top of the kitchen stairs . 
'What can it be ? exclaimed Mrs. Tibbs . 
I wouldn't be found in this situation for the world ! 'Nor I , returned Evenson , who could never bear a joke at his own expense . 
'Hush ! here they are at the door . 
'What fun ! whispered one of the new comers . 
'Glorious ! replied his companion , in an equally low tone . 
'Who would have thought it ? 'I told you so , said Wisbottle , in a most knowing whisper . 
'Lord bless you , he has paid her most extraordinary attention for the last two months . 
I saw 'em when I was sitting at the piano to night . 
'Well , do you know I didn't notice it ? interrupted Tomkins . 
'Not notice it ! continued Wisbottle . 
'Bless you I saw him whispering to her , and she crying and then I'll swear I heard him say something about to night when we were all in bed . 
'They're talking of US ! exclaimed the agonised Mrs. Tibbs , as the painful suspicion , and a sense of their situation , flashed upon her mind . 
'I know it I know it , replied Evenson , with a melancholy consciousness that there was no mode of escape . 
'What's to be done ? we cannot both stop here ! ejaculated Mrs. Tibbs , in a state of partial derangement . 
'I'll get up the chimney , replied Evenson , who really meant what he said . 
'You can't , said Mrs. Tibbs , in despair . 
'You can't it's a register stove . 
'Hush ! repeated John Evenson . 
'Hush hush ! cried somebody down stairs . 
'What a d d hushing ! said Alfred Tomkins , who began to get rather bewildered . 
'There they are ! exclaimed the sapient Wisbottle , as a rustling noise was heard in the store room . 
'Hark ! whispered both the young men . 
'Hark ! repeated Mrs. Tibbs and Evenson . 
'Let me alone , sir , said a female voice in the store room . 
'Hag 'Be quiet , sir I am ashamed of you . 
Think of your wife , Mr. Tibbs . 
'What's that ? exclaimed Tibbs , with a start . 
'What's what ? said Agnes , stopping short . 
Tibbs ! Mrs. Tibbs ! called out Mrs. Bloss . 
Tibbs , pray get up . 
'Oh , dear dear ! exclaimed the wretched partner of the depraved Tibbs . 
'She's knocking at my door . 
We must be discovered ! What will they think ? 'Mrs . 
Tibbs ! Mrs. Tibbs ! screamed the woodpecker again . 
'What's the matter ! shouted Gobler , bursting out of the back drawing room , like the dragon at Astley's . 
'Oh , Mr. Gobler ! cried Mrs. Bloss , with a proper approximation to hysterics 'I think the house is on fire , or else there's thieves in it . 
'Call Mrs. Tibbs directly , somebody , said Gobler , turning into the front drawing room . 
'What ! Mrs. Tibbs and Mr. Evenson ! ! 'Mrs . 
We repeat that we COULD tell all this , but we love to exercise our self denial , and we therefore prefer leaving it to be imagined . 
The lady whom we have hitherto described as Mrs. Bloss , is no more . 
Mrs. Gobler exists Mrs. Bloss has left us for ever . 
We would willingly stop here , but we have a painful duty imposed upon us , which we must discharge . 
He is spending the evening of his days in retirement and he is spending also , annually , that small but honourable independence . 
The unfortunate Mrs. Tibbs has determined to dispose of the whole of her furniture by public auction , and to retire from a residence in which she has suffered so much . 
It is to contain , among a variety of brilliant matter , seventy eight words in large capitals , and six original quotations in inverted commas . 
MINNS AND HIS COUSIN Mr. Augustus Minns was a bachelor , of about forty as he said of about eight and forty as his friends said . 
He was always exceedingly clean , precise , and tidy perhaps somewhat priggish , and the most retiring man in the world . 
He was a clerk in Somerset house , or , as he said himself , he held 'a responsible situation under Government . 
There were two classes of created objects which he held in the deepest and most unmingled horror these were dogs , and children . 
He was not unamiable , but he could , at any time , have viewed the execution of a dog , or the assassination of an infant , with the liveliest satisfaction . 
Their habits were at variance with his love of order and his love of order was as powerful as his love of life . 
, he had consented to become godfather by proxy . 
'Then pray , Budden , write to your cousin at once , replied Mrs. Budden . 
, Poplar walk , Stamford hill . 
'Budden ! ejaculated Minns , 'what can bring that vulgar man here ! say I'm asleep say I'm out , and shall never be home again anything to keep him down stairs . 
'Hem show the gentleman in , said the unfortunate bachelor . 
Exit servant , and enter Octavius preceded by a large white dog , dressed in a suit of fleecy hosiery , with pink eyes , large ears , and no perceptible tail . 
The cause of the pattering on the stairs was but too plain . 
Mr. Augustus Minns staggered beneath the shock of the dog's appearance . 
'My dear fellow , how are you ? said Budden , as he entered . 
He always spoke at the top of his voice , and always said the same thing half a dozen times . 
'How are you , my hearty ? 'How do you do , Mr. Budden ? pray take a chair ! politely stammered the discomfited Minns . 
'Have you breakfasted ? inquired Minns . 
'Oh , no ! came to breakfast with you so ring the bell , my dear fellow , will you ? and let's have another cup and saucer , and the cold ham . 
Make myself at home , you see ! continued Budden , dusting his boots with a table napkin . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! 'pon my life , I'm hungry . 
Minns rang the bell , and tried to smile . 
''Pon my life , I do ! 'Mrs . 
B. and what's his name quite well ? 'Alick my son , you mean never better never better . 
But at such a place as we've got at Poplar walk , you know , he couldn't be ill if he tried . 
'No , thank ye , returned Budden , with the most barbarous indifference to crime , 'I prefer it this way , it eats short . 
But I say , Minns , when will you come down and see us ? You will be delighted with the place I know you will . 
'A good dog for the country that ! coolly observed Budden to the distracted Minns , 'but he's not much used to confinement . 
But now , Minns , when will you come down ? I'll take no denial , positively . 
Let's see , to day's Thursday . 
Will you come on Sunday ? We dine at five , don't say no do . 
'Now mind the direction , said Budden 'the coach goes from the Flower pot , in Bishopsgate street , every half hour . 
When the coach stops at the Swan , you'll see , immediately opposite you , a white house . 
'Which is your house I understand , said Minns , wishing to cut short the visit , and the story , at the same time . 
'No , no , that's not mine that's Grogus's , the great ironmonger's . 
go along by the side of that wall for about a quarter of a mile and anybody will show you which is my place . 
'Very well thank ye good bye . 
'I say , Minns , you've got a card . 
'Yes , I have thank ye . 
A quarter of an hour elapsed , and there were no signs of moving . 
Minns looked at his watch for the sixth time . 
'Coachman , are you going or not ? bawled Mr. Minns , with his head and half his body out of the coach window . 
'Di rectly , sir , said the coachman , with his hands in his pockets , looking as much unlike a man in a hurry as possible . 
'Bill , take them cloths off . 
'Going this minute , sir , was the reply and , accordingly , the machine trundled on for a couple of hundred yards , and then stopped again . 
The child was an affectionate and an amiable infant the little dear mistook Minns for his other parent , and screamed to embrace him . 
'Be quiet , dear , that's not your papa . 
'Thank Heaven I am not ! thought Minns , as the first gleam of pleasure he had experienced that morning shone like a meteor through his wretchedness . 
Playfulness was agreeably mingled with affection in the disposition of the boy . 
When the unfortunate gentleman arrived at the Swan , he found to his great dismay , that it was a quarter past five . 
Your cousin , from his situation , is the most likely person to answer the question . 
Mr. Minns assured the last speaker , that although he was in Somerset house , he possessed no official communication relative to the projects of his Majesty's Ministers . 
The dinner passed off as such dinners usually do . 
After sundry praises from his mother , and various admonitions as to his behaviour from his father , he was introduced to his godfather . 
'Well , my little fellow you are a fine boy , ain't you ? said Mr. Minns , as happy as a tomtit on birdlime . 
'How old are you ? 'Eight , next We'nsday . 
'That's a good boy , said Mrs. Budden , with all a mother's pride . 
Give me an apple , Ma . 
'Be ? said the prodigy , after a little hesitation 'an insect that gathers honey . 
'No , dear , frowned Mrs. Budden 'B double E is the substantive . 
'I don't think he knows much yet about COMMON substantives , said the smirking gentleman , who thought this an admirable opportunity for letting off a joke . 
'It's clear he's not very well acquainted with PROPER NAMES . 
'Hear ! hear ! cried the gentlemen , passing the decanters . 
After they had made the round of the table , Mr. Budden proceeded 'Gentlemen there is an individual present 'Hear ! hear ! said the little man with red whiskers . 
'PRAY be quiet , Jones , remonstrated Budden . 
'Thank Heaven , he does not mean me ! thought Minns , conscious that his diffidence and exclusiveness had prevented his saying above a dozen words since he entered the house . 
'Hear ! hear ! said the company , in a tone of encouragement and approval . 
'Gentlemen , continued Budden , 'my cousin is a man who who is a relation of my own . 
'Who I am most happy to see here , and who , if he were not here , would certainly have deprived us of the great pleasure we all feel in seeing him . 
Gentlemen , I feel that I have already trespassed on your attention for too long a time . 
With every feeling of with every sentiment of of 'Gratification' suggested the friend of the family . 
Of gratification , I beg to propose the health of Mr. Minns . 
'Standing , gentlemen ! shouted the indefatigable little man with the whiskers 'and with the honours . 
Take your time from me , if you please . 
Jones , who had been long watching his opportunity , then darted up . 
He talks equally well on any subject . 
If such have been my feelings , however , on former occasions , what must they be now now under the extraordinary circumstances in which I am placed . 
had room for one inside . 
Mr. Minns started up and , despite countless exclamations of surprise , and entreaties to stay , persisted in his determination to accept the vacant place . 
They dressed in the most interesting manner like twins ! and looked as happy and comfortable as a couple of marigolds run to seed . 
They were very precise , had the strictest possible ideas of propriety , wore false hair , and always smelt very strongly of lavender . 
The house was a white one , a little removed from the roadside , with close palings in front . 
'Amelia , my dear , here is a most gratifying note I have just received . 
You needn't mind reading it aloud . 
Miss Amelia , thus advised , proceeded to read the following note with an air of great triumph 'Cornelius Brook Dingwall , Esq . 
, M. P. , is anxious to see Miss Crumpton on the subject of placing Miss Brook Dingwall under her charge . 
'A Member of Parliament's daughter ! ejaculated Amelia , in an ecstatic tone . 
'A Member of Parliament's daughter ! repeated Miss Maria , with a smile of delight , which , of course , elicited a concurrent titter of pleasure from all the young ladies . 
'It's exceedingly delightful ! said Miss Amelia whereupon all the young ladies murmured their admiration again . 
Courtiers are but school boys , and court ladies school girl's . 
So important an announcement at once superseded the business of the day . 
Having sent in their cards , through the medium of a red hot looking footman in bright livery , they were ushered into the august presence of the profound Dingwall . 
Cornelius Brook Dingwall , Esq . 
, M. P. , was very haughty , solemn , and portentous . 
He had , naturally , a somewhat spasmodic expression of countenance , which was not rendered the less remarkable by his wearing an extremely stiff cravat . 
He was wonderfully proud of the M. P. attached to his name , and never lost an opportunity of reminding people of his dignity . 
He was a county magistrate , and discharged the duties of his station with all due justice and impartiality frequently committing poachers , and occasionally committing himself . 
Miss Brook Dingwall was one of that numerous class of young ladies , who , like adverbs , may be known by their answering to a commonplace question , and doing nothing else . 
On the present occasion , this talented individual was seated in a small library at a table covered with papers , doing nothing , but trying to look busy , playing at shop . 
Acts of Parliament , and letters directed to 'Cornelius Brook Dingwall , Esq . 
, M. P. , were ostentatiously scattered over the table at a little distance from which , Mrs. Brook Dingwall was seated at work . 
He had sent for Miss Crumpton , he said , in consequence of the high character he had received of her establishment from his friend , Sir Alfred Muggs . 
'Pray don't check him , my love , said the diplomatist , as soon as he could make himself heard amidst the unearthly howling consequent upon the threat and the tumble . 
'It all arises from his great flow of spirits . 
This last explanation was addressed to Miss Crumpton . 
'Certainly , sir , replied the antique Maria not exactly seeing , however , the connexion between a flow of animal spirits , and a fall from an arm chair . 
The youngest Miss Crumpton expressed the acknowledgments of the establishment generally . 
Maria was rendered speechless by bodily pain . 
on a level with the writing table . 
'Of course , Lavinia will be a parlour boarder , continued the enviable father 'and on one point I wish my directions to be strictly observed . 
The fact is , that some ridiculous love affair , with a person much her inferior in life , has been the cause of her present state of mind . 
This important statement was again interrupted by the high spirited little creature , in the excess of his joyousness breaking a pane of glass , and nearly precipitating himself into an adjacent area . 
James was rung for considerable confusion and screaming succeeded two little blue legs were seen to kick violently in the air as the man left the room , and the child was gone . 
Brook Dingwall would like Miss Brook Dingwall to learn everything , said Mrs. Brook Dingwall , who hardly ever said anything at all . 
'Certainly , said both the Miss Crumptons together . 
It might divert the dear girl's mind . 
This , by the way , was another bit of diplomacy . 
Courtesies were exchanged , acknowledgments expressed , condescension exhibited , and the interview terminated . 
Preparations , to make use of theatrical phraseology , 'on a scale of magnitude never before attempted , were incessantly made at Minerva House to give every effect to the forthcoming ball . 
The largest room in the house was pleasingly ornamented with blue calico roses , plaid tulips , and other equally natural looking artificial flowers , the work of the young ladies themselves . 
The carpet was taken up , the folding doors were taken down , the furniture was taken out , and rout seats were taken in . 
The linen drapers of Hammersmith were astounded at the sudden demand for blue sarsenet ribbon , and long white gloves . 
Dozens of geraniums were purchased for bouquets , and a harp and two violins were bespoke from town , in addition to the grand piano already on the premises . 
'Oh ! charming , dear . 
How do I ? 'Delightful ! you never looked so handsome , returned the belle , adjusting her own dress , and not bestowing a glance on her poor companion . 
'I hope young Hilton will come early , said another young lady to Miss somebody else , in a fever of expectation . 
'I'm sure he'd be highly flattered if he knew it , returned the other , who was practising L'ETE . 
'Oh ! he's so handsome , said the first . 
'Such a charming person ! added a second . 
'Such a DISTINGUE air ! said a third . 
'Oh , what DO you think ? said another girl , running into the room 'Miss Crumpton says her cousin's coming . 
'What ! Theodosius Butler ? said everybody in raptures . 
'Is HE handsome ? inquired a novice . 
They have , usually , very deep , monotonous voices . 
They always persuade themselves that they are wonderful persons , and that they ought to be very miserable , though they don't precisely know why . 
They are very conceited , and usually possess half an idea but , with enthusiastic young ladies , and silly young gentlemen , they are very wonderful persons . 
'Perhaps that's he , exclaimed several young ladies , as the first pull of the evening threatened destruction to the bell of the gate . 
The Miss Crumptons inquired after the family , with the most excruciating anxiety , and Miss Brook Dingwall was formally introduced to her future companions . 
The Miss Crumptons conversed with the young ladies in the most mellifluous tones , in order that Miss Brook Dingwall might be properly impressed with their amiable treatment . 
Another pull at the bell . 
Mr. Dadson the writing master , and his wife . 
The young ladies whispered one another , and the writing master and his wife flattered the Miss Crumptons , who were dressed in amber , with long sashes , like dolls . 
A general hum of conversation . 
Coffee handed round , and plentifully partaken of by fat mammas , who looked like the stout people who come on in pantomimes for the sole purpose of being knocked down . 
The young men by the door gradually advanced into the middle of the room , and in time became sufficiently at ease to consent to be introduced to partners . 
The interesting Lavinia Brook Dingwall was the only girl present , who appeared to take no interest in the proceedings of the evening . 
In vain was she solicited to dance in vain was the universal homage paid to her as the daughter of a member of parliament . 
Not even the announcement of the arrival of Mr. Theodosius Butler could induce her to leave the corner of the back drawing room in which she was seated . 
'Now , Theodosius , said Miss Maria Crumpton , after that enlightened pamphleteer had nearly run the gauntlet of the whole company , 'I must introduce you to our new pupil . 
Theodosius looked as if he cared for nothing earthly . 
'She's the daughter of a member of parliament , said Maria . 
'And her name is ? he inquired . 
'Great Heaven ! poetically exclaimed Theodosius , in a low tone . 
Miss Crumpton commenced the introduction in due form . 
Miss Brook Dingwall languidly raised her head . 
'Edward ! she exclaimed , with a half shriek , on seeing the well known nankeen legs . 
'Do not condemn me unheard . 
entitled Considerations on the Policy of Removing the Duty on Bees' wax . 
'I do I do ! sobbed Lavinia . 
'That , continued the lover , 'was a subject to which your father was devoted heart and soul . 
'He was he was ! reiterated the sentimentalist . 
'I knew it , continued Theodosius , tragically 'I knew it I forwarded him a copy . 
He wished to know me . 
Could I disclose my real name ? Never ! No , I assumed that name which you have so often pronounced in tones of endearment . 
We now meet again , and I proudly own that I am Theodosius Butler . 
The young lady appeared perfectly satisfied with this argumentative address , and bestowed a look of the most ardent affection on the immortal advocate of bees' wax . 
'No , ejaculated he of the nankeens . 
'I stir not from this spot , writhing under this torture of suspense . 
May I may I hope ? 'You may . 
'The promise is renewed ? 'It is . 
'I have your permission ? 'You have . 
'To the fullest extent ? 'You know it , returned the blushing Lavinia . 
The contortions of the interesting Butler's visage expressed his raptures . 
We could dilate upon the occurrences that ensued . 
How Mr. Theodosius and Miss Lavinia danced , and talked , and sighed for the remainder of the evening how the Miss Crumptons were delighted thereat . 
These , and other matters of as much interest , however , we pass over , for the purpose of describing a scene of even more importance . 
A fortnight after the date of the ball , Cornelius Brook Dingwall , Esq . 
, M. P. , was seated at the same library table , and in the same room , as we have before described . 
He was alone , and his face bore an expression of deep thought and solemn gravity he was drawing up 'A Bill for the better observance of Easter Monday . 
The footman tapped at the door the legislator started from his reverie , and 'Miss Crumpton' was announced . 
Miss Crumpton began the duet . 
She hoped Mrs. Brook Dingwall and the handsome little boy were in good health . 
Mrs. Brook Dingwall and little Frederick were at Brighton . 
'Much obliged to you , Miss Crumpton , said Cornelius , in his most dignified manner , 'for your attention in calling this morning . 
How has she gone on ? 'Very well indeed , sir , returned Maria , dreading to inform the father that she had gone off . 
'Ah , I thought the plan on which I proceeded would be a match for her . 
Here was a favourable opportunity to say that somebody else had been a match for her . 
But the unfortunate governess was unequal to the task . 
'You have persevered strictly in the line of conduct I prescribed , Miss Crumpton ? 'Strictly , sir . 
'You tell me in your note that her spirits gradually improved . 
'Very much indeed , sir . 
I was convinced they would . 
'But I fear , sir , said Miss Crumpton , with visible emotion , 'I fear the plan has not succeeded , quite so well as we could have wished . 
No ! exclaimed the prophet . 
'Bless me ! Miss Crumpton , you look alarmed . 
What has happened ? 'Miss Brook Dingwall , sir 'Yes , ma'am ? 'Has gone , sir' said Maria , exhibiting a strong inclination to faint . 
'Gone ! 'Eloped , sir . 
'Eloped ! Who with when where how ? almost shrieked the agitated diplomatist . 
The natural yellow of the unfortunate Maria's face changed to all the hues of the rainbow , as she laid a small packet on the member's table . 
A letter from his daughter , and another from Theodosius . 
He glanced over their contents 'Ere this reaches you , far distant appeal to feelings love to distraction bees' wax slavery , c . 
He dashed his hand to his forehead , and paced the room with fearfully long strides , to the great alarm of the precise Maria . 
Some time has elapsed since this passionate declaration . 
Mr. and Mrs. Butler are at present rusticating in a small cottage at Ball's pond , pleasantly situated in the immediate vicinity of a brick field . 
Mr. Theodosius looks very important , and writes incessantly but , in consequence of a gross combination on the part of publishers , none of his productions appear in print . 
On cool reflection , Cornelius Brook Dingwall , Esq . 
, M. P. , was reluctantly compelled to admit that the untoward result of his admirable arrangements was attributable , not to the Miss Crumptons , but his own diplomacy . 
He , however , consoles himself , like some other small diplomatists , by satisfactorily proving that if his plans did not succeed , they ought to have done so . 
Minerva House is IN STATUS QUO , and 'The Misses Crumpton' remain in the peaceable and undisturbed enjoyment of all the advantages resulting from their Finishing School . 
There was that elongation in his thoughtful face , and that tendency to weakness in his interesting legs , which tell so forcibly of a great mind and romantic disposition . 
The slightest traits of character in such a being , possess no mean interest to speculative minds . 
He usually appeared in public , in capacious shoes with black cotton stockings and was observed to be particularly attached to a black glazed stock , without tie or ornament of any description . 
There is perhaps no profession , however useful no pursuit , however meritorious which can escape the petty attacks of vulgar minds . 
Mr. Joseph Tuggs was a grocer . 
These taunts , however , were lost upon the Tuggses . 
Mr. Tuggs attended to the grocery department Mrs. Tuggs to the cheesemongery and Miss Tuggs to her education . 
Mr. Simon Tuggs kept his father's books , and his own counsel . 
He was habited in black cloth , and bore with him , a green umbrella , and a blue bag . 
Tuggs ? said the stranger , inquiringly . 
'MY name is Tuggs , replied Mr. Simon . 
Mr. Simon gracefully waved his pen , as if in intimation of his wish that his father would advance . 
Mr. Joseph Tuggs , with considerable celerity , removed his face from the curtain and placed it before the stranger . 
'I come from the Temple , said the man with the bag . 
'From the Temple ! said Mrs. Tuggs , flinging open the door of the little parlour and disclosing Miss Tuggs in perspective . 
'From the Temple ! said Miss Tuggs and Mr. Simon Tuggs at the same moment . 
'From the Temple ! said Mr. Joseph Tuggs , turning as pale as a Dutch cheese . 
'From the Temple , repeated the man with the bag 'from Mr. Cower's , the solicitor's . 
Mr. Tuggs , I congratulate you , sir . 
Ladies , I wish you joy of your prosperity ! We have been successful . 
And the man with the bag leisurely divested himself of his umbrella and glove , as a preliminary to shaking hands with Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
'Water ! screamed Mrs. Tuggs . 
'Look up , my son , exclaimed Mr. Tuggs . 
'Simon ! dear Simon ! shrieked Miss Tuggs . 
'I'm better now , said Mr. Simon Tuggs . 
To a casual spectator , or to any one unacquainted with the position of the family , this fainting would have been unaccountable . 
To those who understood the mission of the man with the bag , and were moreover acquainted with the excitability of the nerves of Mr. Simon Tuggs , it was quite comprehensible . 
A long pending lawsuit respecting the validity of a will , had been unexpectedly decided and Mr. Joseph Tuggs was the possessor of twenty thousand pounds . 
A prolonged consultation took place , that night , in the little parlour a consultation that was to settle the future destinies of the Tuggses . 
'We must certainly give up business , said Miss Tuggs . 
'Oh , decidedly , said Mrs. Tuggs . 
'Simon shall go to the bar , said Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
'And I shall always sign myself Cymon in future , said his son . 
'And I shall call myself Charlotta , said Miss Tuggs . 
'And you must always call ME Ma , and father Pa , said Mrs. Tuggs . 
'Yes , and Pa must leave off all his vulgar habits , interposed Miss Tuggs . 
'I'll take care of all that , responded Mr. Joseph Tuggs , complacently . 
He was , at that very moment , eating pickled salmon with a pocket knife . 
'We must leave town immediately , said Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
Everybody concurred that this was an indispensable preliminary to being genteel . 
The question then arose , Where should they go ? 'Gravesend ? mildly suggested Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
The idea was unanimously scouted . 
'Margate ? insinuated Mrs. Tuggs . 
Worse and worse nobody there , but tradespeople . 
'Brighton ? Mr. Cymon Tuggs opposed an insurmountable objection . 
'Ramsgate ? ejaculated Mr. Cymon , thoughtfully . 
To be sure how stupid they must have been , not to have thought of that before ! Ramsgate was just the place of all others . 
Two months after this conversation , the City of London Ramsgate steamer was running gaily down the river . 
Her flag was flying , her band was playing , her passengers were conversing everything about her seemed gay and lively . 
No wonder the Tuggses were on board . 
'Soul inspiring , replied Mr. Cymon Tuggs he was entered at the bar . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs took upon himself the responsibility of answering the observation . 
'You are an enthusiastic admirer of the beauties of Nature , sir ? said the military gentleman . 
'I am , sir , replied Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
'Travelled much , sir ? inquired the military gentleman . 
'Not much , replied Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
'You've been on the continent , of course ? inquired the military gentleman . 
'Not exactly , replied Mr. Cymon Tuggs in a qualified tone , as if he wished it to be implied that he had gone half way and come back again . 
'You of course intend your son to make the grand tour , sir ? said the military gentleman , addressing Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
As Mr. Joseph Tuggs did not precisely understand what the grand tour was , or how such an article was manufactured , he replied , 'Of course . 
'Walter , my dear , said the young lady to the military gentleman . 
'Yes , Belinda , my love , responded the military gentleman to the black eyed young lady . 
'What have you left me alone so long for ? said the young lady . 
'I have been stared out of countenance by those rude young men . 
'What ! stared at ? exclaimed the military gentleman , with an emphasis which made Mr. Cymon Tuggs withdraw his eyes from the young lady's face with inconceivable rapidity . 
'Which young men where ? and the military gentleman clenched his fist , and glared fearfully on the cigar smokers around . 
'Be calm , Walter , I entreat , said the young lady . 
'I won't , said the military gentleman . 
'Do , sir , interposed Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
'They ain't worth your notice . 
'No no they are not , indeed , urged the young lady . 
'I WILL be calm , said the military gentleman . 
'You speak truly , sir . 
I thank you for a timely remonstrance , which may have spared me the guilt of manslaughter . 
Calming his wrath , the military gentleman wrung Mr. Cymon Tuggs by the hand . 
'My sister , sir ! said Mr. Cymon Tuggs seeing that the military gentleman was casting an admiring look towards Miss Charlotta . 
'My wife , ma'am Mrs. Captain Waters , said the military gentleman , presenting the black eyed young lady . 
'My mother , ma'am Mrs. Tuggs , said Mr. Cymon . 
The military gentleman and his wife murmured enchanting courtesies and the Tuggses looked as unembarrassed as they could . 
'Walter , my dear , said the black eyed young lady , after they had sat chatting with the Tuggses some half hour . 
'Yes , my love , said the military gentleman . 
is very much like the Marquis Carriwini ? 'Lord bless me , very ! said the military gentleman . 
'It struck me , the moment I saw him , said the young lady , gazing intently , and with a melancholy air , on the scarlet countenance of Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs looked at everybody and finding that everybody was looking at him , appeared to feel some temporary difficulty in disposing of his eyesight . 
'So exactly the air of the marquis , said the military gentleman . 
'Quite extraordinary ! sighed the military gentleman's lady . 
'You don't know the marquis , sir ? inquired the military gentleman . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs stammered a negative . 
'If you did , continued Captain Walter Waters , 'you would feel how much reason you have to be proud of the resemblance a most elegant man , with a most prepossessing appearance . 
'He is he is indeed ! exclaimed Belinda Waters energetically . 
As her eye caught that of Mr. Cymon Tuggs , she withdrew it from his features in bashful confusion . 
'Oh ! I hope so , said Miss Charlotta Tuggs , emphatically . 
'Tickets , ladies and gen'lm'n , said the man on the paddle box . 
'Want a porter , sir ? inquired a dozen men in smock frocks . 
'Now , my dear ! said Captain Waters . 
A pair of puce coloured boots were seen ascending the steps , a white handkerchief fluttered , a black eye gleamed . 
The Waterses were gone , and Mr. Cymon Tuggs was alone in a heartless world . 
'Fly , sir ? exclaimed a chorus of fourteen men and six boys , the moment Mr. Joseph Tuggs , at the head of his little party , set foot in the street . 
'Here's the gen'lm'n at last ! said one , touching his hat with mock politeness . 
'Werry glad to see you , sir , been a waitin' for you these six weeks . 
'How many did you want , ma'am ? was , of course , the reply . 
'Will you step in , ma'am ? Down got Mrs. Tuggs . 
Splendid view of the sea from the front windows charming ! A short pause . 
Back came Mrs. Tuggs again . 
One parlour and a mattress . 
'Why the devil didn't they say so at first ? inquired Mr. Joseph Tuggs , rather pettishly . 
'Don't know , said Mrs. Tuggs . 
'Wretches ! exclaimed the nervous Cymon . 
Same question same answer similar result . 
'What do they mean by this ? inquired Mr. Joseph Tuggs , thoroughly out of temper . 
'Don't know , said the placid Mrs. Tuggs . 
One ground floor sitting room , and three cells with beds in them up stairs . 
Family on the opposite side . 
Five children milk and watering in the parlour , and one little boy , expelled for bad behaviour , screaming on his back in the passage . 
'What's the terms ? said Mrs. Tuggs . 
The mistress of the house was considering the expediency of putting on an extra guinea so , she coughed slightly , and affected not to hear the question . 
'What's the terms ? said Mrs. Tuggs , in a louder key . 
'Five guineas a week , ma'am , WITH attendance , replied the lodging house keeper . 
'Rather dear , said Mrs. Tuggs . 
'Oh dear , no , ma'am ! replied the mistress of the house , with a benign smile of pity at the ignorance of manners and customs , which the observation betrayed . 
'Very cheap ! Such an authority was indisputable . 
Mrs. Tuggs paid a week's rent in advance , and took the lodgings for a month . 
In an hour's time , the family were seated at tea in their new abode . 
'Capital srimps ! said Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
Mr. Cymon eyed his father with a rebellious scowl , as he emphatically said 'SHRIMPS . 
'Well , then , shrimps , said Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
'Srimps or shrimps , don't much matter . 
'How different , he thought , 'from the Dowager Duchess of Dobbleton ! 'Very pretty woman , Mrs. Captain Waters , is she not , Cymon ? inquired Miss Charlotta . 
A glow of nervous excitement passed over the countenance of Mr. Cymon Tuggs , as he replied , 'An angel of beauty ! 'Hallo ! said Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
'Hallo , Cymon , my boy , take care . 
Married lady , you know and he winked one of his twinkling eyes knowingly . 
He stalked dramatically to bed , and the Tuggses went to bed too , half an hour afterwards , in a state of considerable mystification and perplexity . 
It was a fine , bright , clear day , with a light breeze from the sea . 
There were the same ladies and gentlemen , the same children , the same nursemaids , the same telescopes , the same portable chairs . 
'Why , I'm blessed if there ain't some ladies a going in ! exclaimed Mr. Joseph Tuggs , with intense astonishment . 
'Lor , pa ! exclaimed Miss Charlotta . 
'There IS , my dear , said Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
And , sure enough , four young ladies , each furnished with a towel , tripped up the steps of a bathing machine . 
In went the horse , floundering about in the water round turned the machine down sat the driver and presently out burst the young ladies aforesaid , with four distinct splashes . 
'Well , that's sing'ler , too ! ejaculated Mr. Joseph Tuggs , after an awkward pause . 
'Why , here's some gentlemen a going in on this side ! exclaimed Mrs. Tuggs , in a tone of horror . 
Three machines three horses three flounderings three turnings round three splashes three gentlemen , disporting themselves in the water like so many dolphins . 
'Well , THAT'S sing'ler ! said Mr. Joseph Tuggs again . 
Miss Charlotta coughed this time , and another pause ensued . 
'How d'ye do , dear ? We have been looking for you , all the morning , said a voice to Miss Charlotta Tuggs . 
Mrs. Captain Waters was the owner of it . 
'How d'ye do ? said Captain Walter Waters , all suavity and a most cordial interchange of greetings ensued . 
'Belinda , my love , said Captain Walter Waters , applying his glass to his eye , and looking in the direction of the sea . 
'Yes , my dear , replied Mrs. Captain Waters . 
'There's Harry Thompson ! 'Where ? said Belinda , applying her glass to her eye . 
'Lor , so it is ! He don't see us , does he ? 'No , I don't think he does' replied the captain . 
'Bless my soul , how very singular ! 'What ? inquired Belinda . 
'There's Mary Golding , too . 
'So it is , I declare ! exclaimed Mrs. Captain Waters . 
'How very curious we should see them both ! 'Very , said the captain , with perfect coolness . 
'It's the reg'lar thing here , you see , whispered Mr. Cymon Tuggs to his father . 
'I see it is , whispered Mr. Joseph Tuggs in reply . 
'Queer , though ain't it ? Mr. Cymon Tuggs nodded assent . 
'What do you think of doing with yourself this morning ? inquired the captain . 
'Shall we lunch at Pegwell ? 'I should like that very much indeed , interposed Mrs. Tuggs . 
She had never heard of Pegwell but the word 'lunch' had reached her ears , and it sounded very agreeably . 
'How shall we go ? inquired the captain 'it's too warm to walk . 
'A shay ? suggested Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
'Chaise , whispered Mr. Cymon . 
'I should think one would be enough , said Mr. Joseph Tuggs aloud , quite unconscious of the meaning of the correction . 
'However , two shays if you like . 
'I should like a donkey SO much , said Belinda . 
'Oh , so should I ! echoed Charlotta Tuggs . 
'Well , we can have a fly , suggested the captain , 'and you can have a couple of donkeys . 
Mrs. Captain Waters declared it would be decidedly improper for two ladies to ride alone . 
Perhaps young Mr. Tuggs would be gallant enough to accompany them . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs blushed , smiled , looked vacant , and faintly protested that he was no horseman . 
The objection was at once overruled . 
A fly was speedily found and three donkeys which the proprietor declared on his solemn asseveration to be 'three parts blood , and the other corn' were engaged in the service . 
'Hi hi hi ! groaned the other boy behind Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
Away went the donkey , with the stirrups jingling against the heels of Cymon's boots , and Cymon's boots nearly scraping the ground . 
'Way way ! Wo o o ! cried Mr. Cymon Tuggs as well as he could , in the midst of the jolting . 
'Don't make it gallop ! screamed Mrs. Captain Waters , behind . 
'My donkey WILL go into the public house ! shrieked Miss Tuggs in the rear . 
'Hi hi hi ! groaned both the boys together and on went the donkeys as if nothing would ever stop them . 
Everything has an end , however even the galloping of donkeys will cease in time . 
This abrupt termination to the rapidity of the ride , naturally occasioned some confusion . 
'Now let 'em walk , said Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
'It's cruel to overdrive 'em . 
'What a lovely day , dear ! said Charlotta . 
'Charming enchanting , dear ! responded Mrs. Captain Waters . 
Cymon Tuggs instinctively did the same . 
There was a brief silence , broken only by a sigh from Mr. Cymon Tuggs . 
Cymon , said the lady suddenly , in a low tone , 'Mr . 
Mr. Cymon expressed his perfect concurrence in a statement which it was impossible to controvert . 
'If I had not been resumed Belinda and there she stopped . 
'What what ? said Mr. Cymon earnestly . 
'Hi hi hi , said the boys behind . 
'Come up , expostulated Cymon Tuggs again . 
'Hi hi hi , repeated the boys . 
The shrimps were delightful , the ale better , and the captain even more pleasant than either . 
But as the captain said , it didn't matter who knew what they were , there ? For all the people of the house knew , they might be common people . 
To which Mr. Joseph Tuggs responded , 'To be sure . 
Taking a donkey towards his ordinary place of residence , is a very different thing , and a feat much more easily to be accomplished , than taking him from it . 
There were the same ladies , and the same gentlemen , who had been on the sands in the morning , and on the pier the day before . 
There were young ladies , in maroon coloured gowns and black velvet bracelets , dispensing fancy articles in the shop , and presiding over games of chance in the concert room . 
There were marriageable daughters , and marriage making mammas , gaming and promenading , and turning over music , and flirting . 
There were some male beaux doing the sentimental in whispers , and others doing the ferocious in moustache . 
There were Mrs. Tuggs in amber , Miss Tuggs in sky blue , Mrs. Captain Waters in pink . 
There was Captain Waters in a braided surtout there was Mr. Cymon Tuggs in pumps and a gilt waistcoat there was Mr. Joseph Tuggs in a blue coat and a shirt frill . 
'Numbers three , eight , and eleven ! cried one of the young ladies in the maroon coloured gowns . 
'Numbers three , eight , and eleven ! echoed another young lady in the same uniform . 
'Number three's gone , said the first young lady . 
'Numbers eight and eleven ! 'Numbers eight and eleven ! echoed the second young lady . 
'Number eight's gone , Mary Ann , said the first young lady . 
'Number eleven ! screamed the second . 
'The numbers are all taken now , ladies , if you please , said the first . 
The representatives of numbers three , eight , and eleven , and the rest of the numbers , crowded round the table . 
'Will you throw , ma'am ? said the presiding goddess , handing the dice box to the eldest daughter of a stout lady , with four girls . 
There was a profound silence among the lookers on . 
'Throw , Jane , my dear , said the stout lady . 
An interesting display of bashfulness a little blushing in a cambric handkerchief a whispering to a younger sister . 
An artless and unsophisticated girl is SO truly amiable , that I often wish Amelia was more like her sister ! The gentleman with the whiskers whispered his admiring approval . 
'Now , my dear ! said the stout lady . 
Miss Amelia threw eight for her sister , ten for herself . 
'Nice figure , Amelia , whispered the stout lady to a thin youth beside her . 
'Beautiful ! 'And SUCH a spirit ! I am like you in that respect . 
I can NOT help admiring that life and vivacity . 
Tippin , of the London theatres , replied Belinda , referring to the programme of the concert . 
Thus passed the evening thus passed the days and evenings of the Tuggses , and the Waterses , for six weeks . 
Sands in the morning donkeys at noon pier in the afternoon library at night and the same people everywhere . 
The moon had climbed higher into the heavens , by two hours' journeying , since those figures first sat down and yet they had moved not . 
Some portions of the two forms were in deep shadow , but the light of the moon fell strongly on a puce coloured boot and a glazed stock . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs and Mrs. Captain Waters were seated on that bench . 
They spoke not , but were silently gazing on the sea . 
'Walter will return to morrow , said Mrs. Captain Waters , mournfully breaking silence . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs sighed like a gust of wind through a forest of gooseberry bushes , as he replied , 'Alas ! he will . 
'Do not say for ever ! 'I must , replied Belinda . 
'Why ? urged Cymon , 'oh why ? Such Platonic acquaintance as ours is so harmless , that even your husband can never object to it . 
'My husband ! exclaimed Belinda . 
'Then leave me , said Mrs. Captain Waters . 
'Leave me , this night , for ever . 
It is late let us return . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs sadly offered the lady his arm , and escorted her to her lodgings . 
He paused at the door he felt a Platonic pressure of his hand . 
'Good night , he said , hesitating . 
'Good night , sobbed the lady . 
Mr. Cymon Tuggs paused again . 
'Won't you walk in , sir ? said the servant . 
Oh , that hesitation ! He DID walk in . 
'Good night ! said Mr. Cymon Tuggs again , when he reached the drawing room . 
There was a double knock at the street door . 
'It is my husband ! said Belinda , as the captain's voice was heard below . 
'And my family ! added Cymon Tuggs , as the voices of his relatives floated up the staircase . 
'The curtain ! The curtain ! gasped Mrs. Captain Waters , pointing to the window , before which some chintz hangings were closely drawn . 
'But I have done nothing wrong , said the hesitating Cymon . 
'The curtain ! reiterated the frantic lady 'you will be murdered . 
This last appeal to his feelings was irresistible . 
The dismayed Cymon concealed himself behind the curtain with pantomimic suddenness . 
Enter the captain , Joseph Tuggs , Mrs. Tuggs , and Charlotta . 
'My dear , said the captain , 'Lieutenant , Slaughter . 
Two iron shod boots and one gruff voice were heard by Mr. Cymon to advance , and acknowledge the honour of the introduction . 
The sabre of the lieutenant rattled heavily upon the floor , as he seated himself at the table . 
Mr. Cymon's fears almost overcame his reason . 
'The brandy , my dear ! said the captain . 
The cigars were introduced the captain was a professed smoker so was the lieutenant so was Joseph Tuggs . 
The apartment was small , the door was closed , the smoke powerful it hung in heavy wreaths over the room , and at length found its way behind the curtain . 
Cymon Tuggs held his nose , his mouth , his breath . 
It was all of no use out came the cough . 
'Bless my soul ! said the captain , 'I beg your pardon , Miss Tuggs . 
You dislike smoking ? 'Oh , no I don't indeed , said Charlotta . 
'Me , Captain Waters ! Lor ! how can you say so ? 'Somebody coughed , said the captain . 
'I certainly thought so , said Slaughter . 
'Fancy , said the captain . 
'Must be , echoed Slaughter . 
Cigars resumed more smoke another cough smothered , but violent . 
'Damned odd ! said the captain , staring about him . 
'Sing'ler ! ejaculated the unconscious Mr. Joseph Tuggs . 
'Aha ! exclaimed the captain , furiously . 
'What do I see ? Slaughter , your sabre ! 'Cymon ! screamed the Tuggses . 
'Your sabre ! roared the captain 'Slaughter unhand me the villain's life ! 'Murder ! screamed the Tuggses . 
'Hold him fast , sir ! faintly articulated Cymon . 
'Water ! exclaimed Joseph Tuggs and Mr. Cymon Tuggs and all the ladies forthwith fainted away , and formed a tableau . 
Most willingly would we conceal the disastrous termination of the six weeks' acquaintance . 
A troublesome form , and an arbitrary custom , however , prescribe that a story should have a conclusion , in addition to a commencement we have therefore no alternative . 
Lieutenant Slaughter brought a message the captain brought an action . 
Mr. Joseph Tuggs interposed the lieutenant negotiated . 
He positively must be asked down here to dine . 
'Who must ? inquired Mr. Malderton . 
Horatio Sparkins , ma , replied Miss Marianne , with a sigh . 
'Oh ! yes , to be sure Horatio Sparkins , said Mrs. Malderton . 
'Decidedly the most gentleman like young man I ever saw . 
'You should recollect , my dear , resumed Mrs. Malderton , 'that Teresa is now eight and twenty and that it really is very important that something should be done . 
Miss Malderton was as well known as the lion on the top of Northumberland House , and had an equal chance of 'going off . 
'I am quite sure you'd like him , continued Mrs. Malderton , 'he is so gentlemanly ! 'So clever ! said Miss Marianne . 
'And has such a flow of language ! added Miss Teresa . 
'He has a great respect for you , my dear , said Mrs. Malderton to her husband . 
Mr. Malderton coughed , and looked at the fire . 
'Yes I'm sure he's very much attached to pa's society , said Miss Marianne . 
'No doubt of it , echoed Miss Teresa . 
'Indeed , he said as much to me in confidence , observed Mrs. Malderton . 
'Well , well , returned Mr. Malderton , somewhat flattered 'if I see him at the assembly to morrow , perhaps I'll ask him down . 
I hope he knows we live at Oak Lodge , Camberwell , my dear ? 'Of course and that you keep a one horse carriage . 
'I'll see about it , said Mr. Malderton , composing himself for a nap 'I'll see about it . 
Mr. Malderton was a man whose whole scope of ideas was limited to Lloyd's , the Exchange , the India House , and the Bank . 
A few successful speculations had raised him from a situation of obscurity and comparative poverty , to a state of affluence . 
He was hospitable from ostentation , illiberal from ignorance , and prejudiced from conceit . 
Egotism and the love of display induced him to keep an excellent table convenience , and a love of good things of this life , ensured him plenty of guests . 
Probably , he cherished this feeling out of compliment to his two sons , who gave their respected parent no uneasiness in that particular . 
The appearance of Mr. Horatio Sparkins at the assembly , had excited no small degree of surprise and curiosity among its regular frequenters . 
Who could he be ? He was evidently reserved , and apparently melancholy . 
Was he a clergyman ? He danced too well . 
A barrister ? He said he was not called . 
He used very fine words , and talked a great deal . 
'Then , said everybody , 'he must be SOMEBODY . 
'I should think he must be , reasoned Mr. Malderton , within himself , 'because he perceives our superiority , and pays us so much attention . 
The night succeeding the conversation we have just recorded , was 'assembly night . 
The double fly was ordered to be at the door of Oak Lodge at nine o'clock precisely . 
, in ditto ditto , looked like her eldest daughter multiplied by two . 
Every member of the party had made up his or her mind to cultivate the acquaintance of Mr. Horatio Sparkins . 
Miss Teresa , of course , was to be as amiable and interesting as ladies of eight and twenty on the look out for a husband , usually are . 
Mrs. Malderton would be all smiles and graces . 
Miss Marianne would request the favour of some verses for her album . 
Mr. Malderton would patronise the great unknown by asking him to dinner . 
Tom intended to ascertain the extent of his information on the interesting topics of snuff and cigars . 
'There he is , my dear , whispered Mrs. Malderton to Mr. Malderton . 
'How like Lord Byron ! murmured Miss Teresa . 
'Or Montgomery ! whispered Miss Marianne . 
'Or the portraits of Captain Cook ! suggested Tom . 
'Tom don't be an ass ! said his father , who checked him on all occasions , probably with a view to prevent his becoming 'sharp' which was very unnecessary . 
The elegant Sparkins attitudinised with admirable effect , until the family had crossed the room . 
'I shall be most happy , simpered the interesting Teresa , at last . 
Horatio's countenance brightened up , like an old hat in a shower of rain . 
'A very genteel young man , certainly ! said the gratified Mr. Malderton , as the obsequious Sparkins and his partner joined the quadrille which was just forming . 
'He has a remarkably good address , said Mr. Frederick . 
'Yes , he is a prime fellow , interposed Tom , who always managed to put his foot in it 'he talks just like an auctioneer . 
'Tom ! said his father solemnly , 'I think I desired you , before , not to be a fool . 
Tom looked as happy as a cock on a drizzly morning . 
'But enough enough ! resumed the elegant Sparkins , with a theatrical air . 
I never can , without his consent , venture to 'Surely he cannot object 'Oh , yes . 
'He cannot object to my offering you a glass of negus , returned the adorable Sparkins , with some surprise . 
'Is that all ? thought the disappointed Teresa . 
Horatio bowed his acknowledgments , and accepted the flattering invitation . 
They have no great charms for an elderly man . 
'And after all , sir , what is man ? said the metaphysical Sparkins . 
'I say , what is man ? 'Ah ! very true , said Mr. Malderton 'very true . 
'We know that we live and breathe , continued Horatio 'that we have wants and wishes , desires and appetites 'Certainly , said Mr. Frederick Malderton , looking profound . 
What more do we know ? 'Nothing , replied Mr. Frederick than whom no one was more capable of answering for himself in that particular . 
Tom was about to hazard something , but , fortunately for his reputation , he caught his father's angry eye , and slunk off like a puppy convicted of petty larceny . 
'Upon my word , said Mr. Malderton the elder , as they were returning home in the fly , 'that Mr. Sparkins is a wonderful young man . 
Such surprising knowledge ! such extraordinary information ! and such a splendid mode of expressing himself ! 'I think he must be somebody in disguise , said Miss Marianne . 
'How charmingly romantic ! 'He talks very loud and nicely , timidly observed Tom , 'but I don't exactly understand what he means . 
'I almost begin to despair of your understanding anything , Tom , said his father , who , of course , had been much enlightened by Mr. Horatio Sparkins's conversation . 
'It strikes me , Tom , said Miss Teresa , 'that you have made yourself very ridiculous this evening . 
'No doubt of it , cried everybody and the unfortunate Tom reduced himself into the least possible space . 
That night , Mr. and Mrs. Malderton had a long conversation respecting their daughter's prospects and future arrangements . 
Various surmises were hazarded on the Sunday morning , as to the mode of conveyance which the anxiously expected Horatio would adopt . 
'On account of Mr. Sparkins's coming down , I purposely abstained from asking any one but Flamwell . 
'Ah ! Flamwell , my dear fellow , how d'ye do ? said Mr. Malderton , as a little spoffish man , with green spectacles , entered the room . 
'You got my note ? 'Yes , I did and here I am in consequence . 
He had rather a singular way of telling his greatest lies in a parenthesis , and with an air of self denial , as if he feared being thought egotistical . 
'Why , no , I don't know him by that name , returned Flamwell , in a low tone , and with an air of immense importance . 
'I have no doubt I know him , though . 
Is he tall ? 'Middle sized , said Miss Teresa . 
'With black hair ? inquired Flamwell , hazarding a bold guess . 
'Yes , returned Miss Teresa , eagerly . 
'Rather a snub nose ? 'No , said the disappointed Teresa , 'he has a Roman nose . 
'I said a Roman nose , didn't I ? inquired Flamwell . 
'He's an elegant young man ? 'Oh , certainly . 
'With remarkably prepossessing manners ? 'Oh , yes ! said all the family together . 
'Yes , I thought you knew him , if he was anybody , triumphantly exclaimed Mr. Malderton . 
He's a very talented young man , and rather eccentric . 
It's extremely probable he may have changed his name for some temporary purpose . 
'It's five minutes to five , said Mr. Malderton , looking at his watch 'I hope he's not going to disappoint us . 
'There he is ! exclaimed Miss Teresa , as a loud double knock was heard at the door . 
Everybody endeavoured to look as people when they particularly expect a visitor always do as if they were perfectly unsuspicious of the approach of anybody . 
The room door opened 'Mr . 
Barton ! said the servant . 
'Confound the man ! murmured Malderton . 
'Ah ! my dear sir , how d'ye do ! Any news ? 'Why no , returned the grocer , in his usual bluff manner . 
None that I am much aware of . 
How d'ye do , gals and boys ? Mr. Flamwell , sir glad to see you . 
The ceremony of introduction was gone through , in all due form . 
Mr. Flamwell looked from behind his green spectacles at Horatio with an air of mysterious importance and the gallant Horatio looked unutterable things at Teresa . 
'Is he the Honourable Mr. Augustus What's his name ? whispered Mrs. Malderton to Flamwell , as he was escorting her to the dining room . 
'Why , no at least not exactly , returned that great authority 'not exactly . 
It might be one of the ministers making himself acquainted with the views of the people . 
Sparkins , said the delighted Mrs. Malderton , 'pray divide the ladies . 
John , put a chair for the gentleman between Miss Teresa and Miss Marianne . 
'Why , no not very lately . 
I saw Lord Gubbleton the day before yesterday . 
'All ! I hope his lordship is very well ? said Malderton , in a tone of the greatest interest . 
It is scarcely necessary to say that , until that moment , he had been quite innocent of the existence of such a person . 
'Why , yes he was very well very well indeed . 
He's a devilish good fellow . 
I met him in the City , and had a long chat with him . 
Indeed , I'm rather intimate with him . 
'I know whom you mean , returned the host , consequentially in reality knowing as much about the matter as Flamwell himself . 
'He has a capital business . 
This was touching on a dangerous topic . 
'Talking of business , interposed Mr. Barton , from the centre of the table . 
Ha , ha ! 'Mr . 
Sparkins , said the host , vainly endeavouring to conceal his dismay , 'a glass of wine ? 'With the utmost pleasure , sir . 
Your argument struck me very forcibly . 
'And me , said Mr. Frederick . 
Horatio made a graceful inclination of the head . 
'Pray , what is your opinion of woman , Mr. Sparkins ? inquired Mrs. Malderton . 
'I am very happy to find you entertain such honourable opinions , Mr. Sparkins , said Mrs. Malderton . 
'And I , added Miss Teresa . 
Horatio looked his delight , and the young lady blushed . 
'Now , it's my opinion said Mr. Barton . 
'I know what you're going to say , interposed Malderton , determined not to give his relation another opportunity , 'and I don't agree with you . 
'What ! inquired the astonished grocer . 
'But I meant to say 'You never can convince me , said Malderton , with an air of obstinate determination . 
'And I , said Mr. Frederick , following up his father's attack , 'cannot entirely agree in Mr. Sparkins's argument . 
'To be sure , said Mr. Malderton . 
'Because , if effect is the consequence of cause , and if cause does precede effect , I apprehend you are wrong , added Horatio . 
'Decidedly , said the toad eating Flamwell . 
'At least , I apprehend that to be the just and logical deduction ? said Sparkins , in a tone of interrogation . 
'No doubt of it , chimed in Flamwell again . 
'Well , perhaps it does , said Mr. Frederick 'I didn't see it before . 
'I don't exactly see it now , thought the grocer 'but I suppose it's all right . 
'How wonderfully clever he is ! whispered Mrs. Malderton to her daughters , as they retired to the drawing room . 
'Oh , he's quite a love ! said both the young ladies together 'he talks like an oracle . 
He must have seen a great deal of life . 
The gentlemen being left to themselves , a pause ensued , during which everybody looked very grave , as if they were quite overcome by the profound nature of the previous discussion . 
Flamwell , who had made up his mind to find out who and what Mr. Horatio Sparkins really was , first broke silence . 
'N no ! said Horatio , with a little hesitation 'not exactly . 
'But you have been much among the silk gowns , or I mistake ? inquired Flamwell , deferentially . 
'Nearly all my life , returned Sparkins . 
The question was thus pretty well settled in the mind of Mr. Flamwell . 
He was a young gentleman 'about to be called . 
'I shouldn't like to be a barrister , said Tom , speaking for the first time , and looking round the table to find somebody who would notice the remark . 
No one made any reply . 
'I shouldn't like to wear a wig , said Tom , hazarding another observation . 
'Tom , I beg you will not make yourself ridiculous , said his father . 
'Pray listen , and improve yourself by the conversation you hear , and don't be constantly making these absurd remarks . 
'Well , Tom , observed his good natured uncle , 'never mind ! I think with you . 
I shouldn't like to wear a wig . 
I'd rather wear an apron . 
'You are very lucky , if you have had an opportunity of obliging that great man , observed Flamwell , with an air of profound respect . 
'I don't know who he is , he whispered to Mr. Malderton , confidentially , as they followed Horatio up to the drawing room . 
'It's quite clear , however , that he belongs to the law , and that he is somebody of great importance , and very highly connected . 
'No doubt , no doubt , returned his companion . 
The remainder of the evening passed away most delightfully . 
Mr. Malderton , relieved from his apprehensions by the circumstance of Mr. Barton's falling into a profound sleep , was as affable and gracious as possible . 
'But , perhaps , Mr. Sparkins will form one of our party to morrow evening ? suggested Mrs. M. 'Mr . 
Malderton intends taking the girls to see the pantomime . 
Mr. Sparkins bowed , and promised to join the party in box , in the course of the evening . 
'We will not tax you for the morning , said Miss Teresa , bewitchingly 'for ma is going to take us to all sorts of places , shopping . 
I know that gentlemen have a great horror of that employment . 
Mr. Sparkins bowed again , and declared that he should be delighted , but business of importance occupied him in the morning . 
Flamwell looked at Malderton significantly . 
'It's term time ! he whispered . 
At twelve o'clock on the following morning , the 'fly' was at the door of Oak Lodge , to convey Mrs. Malderton and her daughters on their expedition for the day . 
They were to dine and dress for the play at a friend's house . 
First , driving thither with their band boxes , they departed on their first errand to make some purchases at Messrs . 
At length , the vehicle stopped before a dirty looking ticketed linen draper's shop , with goods of all kinds , and labels of all sorts and sizes , in the window . 
'Pray be seated , ladies . 
'I want to see some silks , answered Mrs. Malderton . 
Mr. Smith ! Where IS Mr. Smith ? 'Here , sir , cried a voice at the back of the shop . 
'Pray make haste , Mr. Smith , said the M. C. 'You never are to be found when you're wanted , sir . 
Mr. Smith , thus enjoined to use all possible despatch , leaped over the counter with great agility , and placed himself before the newly arrived customers . 
The dignified evanishment of the hero of Oak Lodge , on this unexpected recognition , could only be equalled by that of a furtive dog with a considerable kettle at his tail . 
Years have elapsed since the occurrence of this dreadful morning . 
The daisies have thrice bloomed on Camberwell green the sparrows have thrice repeated their vernal chirps in Camberwell grove but the Miss Maldertons are still unmated . 
'A lady , sir a lady ! whispered the boy , rousing his master with a shake . 
'What lady ? cried our friend , starting up , not quite certain that his dream was an illusion , and half expecting that it might be Rose herself . 
The surgeon looked towards the door , and started himself , for an instant , on beholding the appearance of his unlooked for visitor . 
It was a singularly tall woman , dressed in deep mourning , and standing so close to the door that her face almost touched the glass . 
The upper part of her figure was carefully muffled in a black shawl , as if for the purpose of concealment and her face was shrouded by a thick black veil . 
'Do you wish to consult me ? he inquired , with some hesitation , holding open the door . 
It opened inwards , and therefore the action did not alter the position of the figure , which still remained motionless on the same spot . 
She slightly inclined her head , in token of acquiescence . 
'Pray walk in , said the surgeon . 
The figure moved a step forward and then , turning its head in the direction of the boy to his infinite horror appeared to hesitate . 
'Leave the room , Tom , said the young man , addressing the boy , whose large round eyes had been extended to their utmost width during this brief interview . 
'Draw the curtain , and shut the door . 
The surgeon drew a chair to the fire , and motioned the visitor to a seat . 
The mysterious figure slowly moved towards it . 
As the blaze shone upon the black dress , the surgeon observed that the bottom of it was saturated with mud and rain . 
'You are very wet , be said . 
'I am , said the stranger , in a low deep voice . 
'And you are ill ? added the surgeon , compassionately , for the tone was that of a person in pain . 
'I am , was the reply 'very ill not bodily , but mentally . 
It is not for myself , or on my own behalf , continued the stranger , 'that I come to you . 
It is for another that I beseech your aid , sir . 
There was a desperate earnestness in this woman's manner , that went to the young man's heart . 
'If , he said , rising hastily , 'the person of whom you speak , be in so hopeless a condition as you describe , not a moment is to be lost . 
I will go with you instantly . 
Why did you not obtain medical advice before ? 'Because it would have been useless before because it is useless even now , replied the woman , clasping her hands passionately . 
'You ARE ill , he said , gently , 'although you do not know it . 
The fever which has enabled you to bear , without feeling it , the fatigue you have evidently undergone , is burning within you now . 
When I know what it is necessary I should know , to render my visit serviceable to him , I am ready to accompany you . 
The stranger lifted the glass of water to her mouth , without raising the veil put it down again untasted and burst into tears . 
'I know , she said , sobbing aloud , 'that what I say to you now , seems like the ravings of fever . 
I have been told so before , less kindly than by you . 
'The responsibility will rest heavily somewhere , replied the stranger bitterly . 
'Whatever responsibility rests with me , I am content to bear , and ready to answer . 
'As I incur none , continued the surgeon , 'by acceding to your request , I will see him in the morning , if you leave me the address . 
At what hour can he be seen ? 'NINE , replied the stranger . 
'You must excuse my pressing these inquiries , said the surgeon . 
'But is he in your charge now ? 'He is not , was the rejoinder . 
'Then , if I gave you instructions for his treatment through the night , you could not assist him ? The woman wept bitterly , as she replied , 'I could not . 
His visitor , after giving him a direction to an obscure part of Walworth , left the house in the same mysterious manner in which she had entered it . 
It was a small low building , one story above the ground , with even a more desolate and unpromising exterior than any he had yet passed . 
An old yellow curtain was closely drawn across the window up stairs , and the parlour shutters were closed , but not fastened . 
The house was detached from any other , and , as it stood at an angle of a narrow lane , there was no other habitation in sight . 
a place of resort for the worst and most depraved characters . 
Even the streets in the gayest parts of London were imperfectly lighted , at that time and such places as these , were left entirely to the mercy of the moon and stars . 
A low whispering was audible , immediately afterwards , as if some person at the end of the passage were conversing stealthily with another on the landing above . 
It was succeeded by the noise of a pair of heavy boots upon the bare floor . 
'Walk in , sir , he said in a low tone . 
The surgeon did so , and the man having secured the door again , by the chain , led the way to a small back parlour at the extremity of the passage . 
'Am I in time ? 'Too soon ! replied the man . 
The surgeon turned hastily round , with a gesture of astonishment not unmixed with alarm , which he found it impossible to repress . 
The surgeon at once walked into the room . 
The man closed the door , and left him alone . 
It was a little cold room , with no other furniture than two deal chairs , and a table of the same material . 
The window , which was broken and patched in many places , looked into a small enclosed piece of ground , almost covered with water . 
Not a sound was to be heard , either within the house , or without . 
The young surgeon sat down by the fireplace , to await the result of his first professional visit . 
He had not remained in this position many minutes , when the noise of some approaching vehicle struck his ear . 
The creaking of the stairs , a few seconds afterwards , announced that the new comers having completed their task , whatever it was , were leaving the house . 
The door was again closed , and the former silence was restored . 
The woman led the way up stairs to the front room , and paused at the door , to let him enter first . 
It was scantily furnished with an old deal box , a few chairs , and a tent bedstead , without hangings or cross rails , which was covered with a patchwork counterpane . 
Stretched upon the bed , closely enveloped in a linen wrapper , and covered with blankets , lay a human form , stiff and motionless . 
The head and face , which were those of a man , were uncovered , save by a bandage which passed over the head and under the chin . 
The left arm lay heavily across the bed , and the woman held the passive hand . 
The surgeon gently pushed the woman aside , and took the hand in his . 
'My God ! he exclaimed , letting it fall involuntarily 'the man is dead ! The woman started to her feet and beat her hands together . 
'Oh ! don't say so , sir , she exclaimed , with a burst of passion , amounting almost to frenzy . 
Don't let him lie here , sir , without one effort to save him ! This very moment life may be passing away . 
'It is of no use , my good woman , said the surgeon , soothingly , as he withdrew his hand from the man's breast . 
'Stay undraw that curtain ! 'Why ? said the woman , starting up . 
'Undraw that curtain ! repeated the surgeon in an agitated tone . 
'I darkened the room on purpose , said the woman , throwing herself before him as he rose to undraw it . 
In the excitement of a minute before , the female had thrown off the bonnet and veil , and now stood with her eyes fixed upon him . 
Her features were those of a woman about fifty , who had once been handsome . 
'There has been violence here , said the surgeon , preserving his searching glance . 
'There has ! replied the woman . 
'This man has been murdered . 
'That I call God to witness he has , said the woman , passionately 'pitilessly , inhumanly murdered ! 'By whom ? said the surgeon , seizing the woman by the arm . 
'Look at the butchers' marks , and then ask me ! she replied . 
The surgeon turned his face towards the bed , and bent over the body which now lay full in the light of the window . 
The throat was swollen , and a livid mark encircled it . 
The truth flashed suddenly upon him . 
'This is one of the men who were hanged this morning ! he exclaimed , turning away with a shudder . 
'It is , replied the woman , with a cold , unmeaning stare . 
'Who was he ? inquired the surgeon . 
'MY SON , rejoined the woman and fell senseless at his feet . 
A companion , equally guilty with himself , had been acquitted for want of evidence and this man had been left for death , and executed . 
To recount the circumstances of the case , at this distant period , must be unnecessary , and might give pain to some persons still alive . 
The history was an every day one . 
The mother was a widow without friends or money , and had denied herself necessaries to bestow them on her orphan boy . 
And this was the result his own death by the hangman's hands , and his mother's shame , and incurable insanity . 
That prayer flew to Heaven , and was heard . 
Mr. Percy Noakes was what is generally termed 'a devilish good fellow . 
He had a large circle of acquaintance , and seldom dined at his own expense . 
Like those paragons of perfection , advertising footmen out of place , he was always 'willing to make himself generally useful . 
He was always making something for somebody , or planning some party of pleasure , which was his great FORTE . 
He invariably spoke with astonishing rapidity was smart , spoffish , and eight and twenty . 
'Glorious idea ! Mrs. Stubbs . 
'Yes , sir , replied a dirty old woman with an inflamed countenance , emerging from the bedroom , with a barrel of dirt and cinders . 
'Did you call , sir ? 'Oh ! Mrs. Stubbs , I'm going out . 
Mind he writes it down and if Mr. Hardy should call you know Mr. Hardy ? 'The funny gentleman , sir ? 'Ah ! the funny gentleman . 
If Mr. Hardy should call , say I've gone to Mrs. Taunton's about that water party . 
'And if any fellow calls , and says he's come about a steamer , tell him to be here at five o'clock this afternoon , Mrs. Stubbs . 
She was a good looking widow of fifty , with the form of a giantess and the mind of a child . 
The pursuit of pleasure , and some means of killing time , were the sole end of her existence . 
She doted on her daughters , who were as frivolous as herself . 
'You good creature ! said Mrs. Taunton , addressing the gallant Percy . 
'You really are a good soul ! You've come about the water party , I know . 
'I should rather suspect I had , replied Mr. Noakes , triumphantly . 
'Now , come here , girls , and I'll tell you all about it . 
Miss Emily and Miss Sophia advanced to the table . 
Then , I propose that the expenses shall be paid by these ten fellows jointly . 
'Excellent , indeed ! said Mrs. Taunton , who highly approved of this part of the arrangements . 
'Then , my plan is , that each of these ten fellows shall have the power of asking five people . 
This will ensure our having a pleasant party , you know . 
'What a manager you are ! interrupted Mrs. Taunton again . 
'Charming ! said the lovely Emily . 
'I never did ! ejaculated Sophia . 
'Yes , I think it'll do , replied Mr. Percy Noakes , who was now quite in his element . 
Mrs. Taunton , Emily , and Sophia , were loud in their praises . 
Hardy ! interrupted the servant , announcing a visitor . 
Miss Sophia and Miss Emily hastily assumed the most interesting attitudes that could be adopted on so short a notice . 
'How are you ? said a stout gentleman of about forty , pausing at the door in the attitude of an awkward harlequin . 
This was Mr. Hardy , whom we have before described , on the authority of Mrs. Stubbs , as 'the funny gentleman . 
He was an Astley Cooperish Joe Miller a practical joker , immensely popular with married ladies , and a general favourite with young men . 
He was always engaged in some pleasure excursion or other , and delighted in getting somebody into a scrape on such occasions . 
He could sing comic songs , imitate hackney coachmen and fowls , play airs on his chin , and execute concertos on the Jews' harp . 
He always eat and drank most immoderately , and was the bosom friend of Mr. Percy Noakes . 
He had a red face , a somewhat husky voice , and a tremendous laugh . 
'You're just the very man I wanted , said Mr. Percy Noakes , who proceeded to explain the cause of his being in requisition . 
'Ha ! ha ! ha ! shouted Hardy , after hearing the statement , and receiving a detailed account of the proposed excursion . 
'Oh , charming ! cried the ladies . 
It was then agreed that a meeting should take place at Mr. Percy Noakes's chambers on the ensuing Wednesday evening at eight o'clock , and the visitors departed . 
Wednesday evening arrived eight o'clock came , and eight members of the committee were punctual in their attendance . 
satisfaction , and greatly to the discomfiture of Mr. Percy Noakes . 
Between the Briggses and the Tauntons there existed a degree of implacable hatred , quite unprecedented . 
The animosity between the Montagues and Capulets , was nothing to that which prevailed between these two illustrious houses . 
They resided in Portland street , Oxford street , and moved in the same orbit as the Tauntons hence their mutual dislike . 
If the Miss Briggses appeared in smart bonnets , the Miss Tauntons eclipsed them with smarter . 
If Mrs. Taunton appeared in a cap of all the hues of the rainbow , Mrs. Briggs forthwith mounted a toque , with all the patterns of the kaleidoscope . 
If Miss Sophia Taunton learnt a new song , two of the Miss Briggses came out with a new duet . 
The Tauntons had once gained a temporary triumph with the assistance of a harp , but the Briggses brought three guitars into the field , and effectually routed the enemy . 
There was no end to the rivalry between them . 
He was especially enjoined to make himself as disagreeable as possible and , above all , to black ball the Tauntons at every hazard . 
The proceedings of the evening were opened by Mr. Percy Noakes . 
He had known him long , and this he would say , that a more honourable , a more excellent , or a better hearted fellow , never existed . 
Mr. Alexander Briggs opposed the motion . 
Mr. Hardy defended his honourable friend , in a voice rendered partially unintelligible by emotion and brandy and water . 
The proposition was put to the vote , and there appearing to be only one dissentient voice , Mr. Percy Noakes was declared duly elected , and took the chair accordingly . 
The business of the meeting now proceeded with rapidity . 
The chairman delivered in his estimate of the probable expense of the excursion , and every one present subscribed his portion thereof . 
The important ceremony of balloting then commenced . 
A tea caddy was placed on a table in a dark corner of the apartment , and every one was provided with two backgammon men , one black and one white . 
The chairman with great solemnity then read the following list of the guests whom he proposed to introduce Mrs. Taunton and two daughters , Mr. Wizzle , Mr. Simson . 
The names were respectively balloted for , and Mrs. Taunton and her daughters were declared to be black balled . 
Mr. Percy Noakes and Mr. Hardy exchanged glances . 
'Is your list prepared , Mr. Briggs ? inquired the chairman . 
'It is , replied Alexander , delivering in the following 'Mrs . 
Briggs and three daughters , Mr. Samuel Briggs . 
The previous ceremony was repeated , and Mrs. Briggs and three daughters were declared to be black balled . 
Mr. Alexander Briggs looked rather foolish , and the remainder of the company appeared somewhat overawed by the mysterious nature of the proceedings . 
The balloting proceeded but , one little circumstance which Mr. Percy Noakes had not originally foreseen , prevented the system from working quite as well as he had anticipated . 
In this dilemma what was to be done ? either the whole plan must fall to the ground , or a compromise must be effected . 
The proposal was acceded to the Tauntons and the Briggses were reinstated and the party was formed . 
The next Wednesday was fixed for the eventful day , and it was unanimously resolved that every member of the committee should wear a piece of blue sarsenet ribbon round his left arm . 
More brandy and water was despatched several speeches were made by the different law students present thanks were voted to the chairman and the meeting separated . 
The weather had been beautiful up to this period , and beautiful it continued to be . 
Tuesday arrived , and the anxiety of Mr. Percy Noakes knew no bounds . 
He made a violent effort to get on board , and awoke . 
The bright sun was shining cheerfully into the bedroom , and Mr. Percy Noakes started up for his watch , in the dreadful expectation of finding his worst dreams realised . 
It was just five o'clock . 
He dressed himself , took a hasty apology for a breakfast , and sallied forth . 
The streets looked as lonely and deserted as if they had been crowded , overnight , for the last time . 
At the corner of a by street , near Temple bar , was stationed a 'street breakfast . 
The coffee was boiling over a charcoal fire , and large slices of bread and butter were piled one upon the other , like deals in a timber yard . 
The company were seated on a form , which , with a view both to security and comfort , was placed against a neighbouring wall . 
Two young men , whose uproarious mirth and disordered dress bespoke the conviviality of the preceding evening , were treating three 'ladies' and an Irish labourer . 
A little sweep was standing at a short distance , casting a longing eye at the tempting delicacies and a policeman was watching the group from the opposite side of the street . 
'Boat , sir ? cried one of the three watermen who were mopping out their boats , and all whistling . 
'Boat , sir ? 'No , replied Mr. Percy Noakes , rather sharply for the inquiry was not made in a manner at all suitable to his dignity . 
'Would you prefer a wessel , sir ? inquired another , to the infinite delight of the 'Jack in the water . 
Mr. Percy Noakes replied with a look of supreme contempt . 
'Did you want to be put on board a steamer , sir ? inquired an old fireman waterman , very confidentially . 
He was dressed in a faded red suit , just the colour of the cover of a very old Court guide . 
'Yes , make haste the Endeavour off the Custom house . 
'Endeavour ! cried the man who had convulsed the 'Jack' before . 
'Vy , I see the Endeavour go up half an hour ago . 
'So did I , said another 'and I should think she'd gone down by this time , for she's a precious sight too full of ladies and gen'lemen . 
'Here she is , by Jove ! said the delighted Percy , as they ran alongside the Endeavour . 
'Hold hard ! cried the steward over the side , and Mr. Percy Noakes jumped on board . 
'Hope you will find everything as you wished , sir . 
She looks uncommon well this morning . 
'She does , indeed , replied the manager , in a state of ecstasy which it is impossible to describe . 
The band came on board , and so did the wine . 
Ten minutes to nine , and the committee embarked in a body . 
The remainder of the committee , dressed in white hats , light jackets , waistcoats , and trousers , looked something between waiters and West India planters . 
Nine o'clock struck , and the company arrived in shoals . 
Mr. Samuel Briggs , Mrs. Briggs , and the Misses Briggs , made their appearance in a smart private wherry . 
The Tauntons arrived at the same moment with more music , and a lion a gentleman with a bass voice and an incipient red moustache . 
The colours of the Taunton party were pink those of the Briggses a light blue . 
The Tauntons had artificial flowers in their bonnets here the Briggses gained a decided advantage they wore feathers . 
'How d'ye do , dear ? said the Misses Briggs to the Misses Taunton . 
Mr. Percy Noakes received the visitors , and bowed to the strange gentleman , as if he should like to know who he was . 
This was just what Mrs. Taunton wanted . 
Here was an opportunity to astonish the Briggses . 
'Oh ! I beg your pardon , said the general of the Taunton party , with a careless air . 
'Captain Helves Mr. Percy Noakes Mrs. Briggs Captain Helves . 
Mr. Percy Noakes bowed very low the gallant captain did the same with all due ferocity , and the Briggses were clearly overcome . 
'In the name of the committee I have to thank you for doing so , and to offer you welcome , sir , replied Percy . 
Boat after boat came alongside , and guest after guest arrived . 
'Now , is every one on board ? inquired Mr. Percy Noakes . 
bustled about to ascertain the fact , and reported that they might safely start . 
'Go on ! cried the master of the boat from the top of one of the paddle boxes . 
'Hoi oi oi oi oi oi o i i i ! shouted half a dozen voices from a boat , a quarter of a mile astern . 
'Stop her ! cried the captain . 
'Stop her ! repeated the boy whizz went the steam , and all the young ladies , as in duty bound , screamed in concert . 
They were only appeased by the assurance of the martial Helves , that the escape of steam consequent on stopping a vessel was seldom attended with any great loss of human life . 
Quadrilling commenced Captain Helves danced one set with Miss Emily Taunton , and another set with Miss Sophia Taunton . 
Mrs. Taunton was in ecstasies . 
'Really , said that warlike individual , 'I should be very happy , 'but 'Oh ! pray do , cried all the young ladies . 
'Shall I accompany you , dear ? inquired one of the Miss Briggses , with the bland intention of spoiling the effect . 
'Very much obliged to you , Miss Briggs , sharply retorted Mrs. Taunton , who saw through the manoeuvre 'my daughters always sing without accompaniments . 
'And without voices , tittered Mrs. Briggs , in a low tone . 
'Persons ! ejaculated Mrs. Taunton . 
'Persons , replied Mrs. Briggs . 
'Insolence ! 'Creature ! 'Hush ! hush ! interrupted Mr. Percy Noakes , who was one of the very few by whom this dialogue had been overheard . 
'Hush ! pray , silence for the duet . 
This , in private circles , is frequently designated 'a bass voice . 
from o ce an ri sing Bright flames the or b of d ay . 
'My child ! screamed Mrs. Fleetwood . 
'My child ! it is his voice I know it . 
'What is the matter ? shouted the agonised father , as he returned with the child in his arms . 
'Oh ! oh ! oh ! screamed the small sufferer again . 
'Oh ! oh ! I'm so frightened ! 'What at , dear ? what at ? said the mother , soothing the sweet infant . 
'Oh ! he's been making such dreadful faces at me , cried the boy , relapsing into convulsions at the bare recollection . 
'He ! who ? cried everybody , crowding round him . 
'Oh ! him ! replied the child , pointing at Hardy , who affected to be the most concerned of the whole group . 
The real state of the case at once flashed upon the minds of all present , with the exception of the Fleetwoods and the Wakefields . 
This little interruption having been adjusted , the captain resumed , and Miss Emily chimed in , in due course . 
The duet was loudly applauded , and , certainly , the perfect independence of the parties deserved great commendation . 
One of those hums of admiration followed the suggestion , which one frequently hears in society , when nobody has the most distant notion what he is expressing his approval of . 
The three Misses Briggs looked modestly at their mamma , and the mamma looked approvingly at her daughters , and Mrs. Taunton looked scornfully at all of them . 
The Misses Briggs asked for their guitars , and several gentlemen seriously damaged the cases in their anxiety to present them . 
Mrs. Taunton whispered to a neighbour that it was 'quite sickening ! and the Misses Taunton looked as if they knew how to play , but disdained to do it . 
At length , the Misses Briggs began in real earnest . 
It was a new Spanish composition , for three voices and three guitars . 
All eyes were turned upon the captain , who was reported to have once passed through Spain with his regiment , and who must be well acquainted with the national music . 
This was sufficient the trio was encored the applause was universal and never had the Tauntons suffered such a complete defeat . 
'Bravo ! bravo ! ejaculated the captain 'bravo ! 'Pretty ! isn't it , sir ? inquired Mr. Samuel Briggs , with the air of a self satisfied showman . 
By the bye , these were the first words he had been heard to utter since he left Boswell court the evening before . 
'Did you ever hear a Portuguese tambourine ? inquired that jocular individual . 
'Did YOU ever hear a tom tom , sir ? sternly inquired the captain , who lost no opportunity of showing off his travels , real or pretended . 
'A what ? asked Hardy , rather taken aback . 
'Never ! 'Nor a gum gum ? 'Never ! 'What IS a gum gum ? eagerly inquired several young ladies . 
, accompanied by an equal number of Con su mars , approaching the house with a threatening aspect , and beating a tom tom . 
The Ram started up 'Who ? inquired the bald gentleman , intensely interested . 
'The Ram Ram Chowdar 'Oh ! said the old gentleman , 'beg your pardon pray go on . 
Started up and drew a pistol . 
Do you see that gum gum ? said he . 
No , said I , staring about me . 
You don't ? said he . 
He drew me aside , and with an expression of agony I shall never forget , said in a low whisper 'Dinner's on the table , ladies , interrupted the steward's wife . 
'What an extraordinary circumstance ! ejaculated the same old gentleman , preserving his listening attitude . 
'What a traveller ! said the young ladies . 
'What a singular name ! exclaimed the gentlemen , rather confused by the coolness of the whole affair . 
'I wish he had finished the story , said an old lady . 
'How illiberal ! how envious ! cried everybody , as they made for the cabin , fully impressed with a belief in the captain's amazing adventures . 
Helves was the sole lion for the remainder of the day impudence and the marvellous are pretty sure passports to any society . 
The party had by this time reached their destination , and put about on their return home . 
It had been 'spitting' with rain for the last half hour , and now began to pour in good earnest . 
The wind was freshening very fast , and the waterman at the wheel had unequivocally expressed his opinion that there would shortly be a squall . 
Sea sickness , however , is like a belief in ghosts every one entertains some misgivings on the subject , but few will acknowledge any . 
The majority of the company , therefore , endeavoured to look peculiarly happy , feeling all the while especially miserable . 
'Don't it rain ? inquired the old gentleman before noticed , when , by dint of squeezing and jamming , they were all seated at table . 
'I think it does a little , replied Mr. Percy Noakes , who could hardly hear himself speak , in consequence of the pattering on the deck . 
'Don't it blow ? inquired some one else . 
'It'll soon clear up , said Mr. Percy Noakes , in a cheerful tone . 
'Oh , certainly ! ejaculated the committee generally . 
The throbbing motion of the engine was but too perceptible . 
The table vibrated and started like a feverish pulse , and the very legs were convulsed everything was shaking and jarring . 
The cloth was removed the dessert was laid on the table and the glasses were filled . 
The motion of the boat increased several members of the party began to feel rather vague and misty , and looked as if they had only just got up . 
'I beg your pardon , Edkins , said the courteous Percy 'I thought our friend was ill . 
Edkins IS gone , cried somebody . 
He says he has a wife and two children , whose werry subsistence depends on his breaking a wessel , and he expects to do so every moment . 
The flageolet's been werry ill , but he's better , only he's in a dreadful prusperation . 
Never was such a blowing , and raining , and pitching , and tossing , endured by any pleasure party before . 
Several remonstrances were sent down below , on the subject of Master Fleetwood , but they were totally unheeded in consequence of the indisposition of his natural protectors . 
The party arrived off the Custom house at about two o'clock on the Thursday morning dispirited and worn out . 
The Tauntons were too ill to quarrel with the Briggses , and the Briggses were too wretched to annoy the Tauntons . 
In the event of his not being previously appointed to a judgeship , it is probable that he will practise as a barrister in the New Central Criminal Court . 
Mrs. Taunton complains that she has been much deceived in him . 
He introduced himself to the family on board a Gravesend steam packet , and certainly , therefore , ought to have proved respectable . 
Mr. Percy Noakes is as light hearted and careless as ever . 
CHAPTER VIII THE GREAT WINGLEBURY DUEL The little town of Great Winglebury is exactly forty two miles and three quarters from Hyde Park corner . 
Such is the Winglebury Arms , at this day , and such was the Winglebury Arms some time since no matter when two or three minutes before the arrival of the London stage . 
The day was hot and sunny , the town in the zenith of its dulness , and with the exception of these few idlers , not a living creature was to be seen . 
'Lady inside , here ! said the guard . 
'Please to alight , ma'am , said the waiter . 
'Private sitting room ? interrogated the lady . 
'Certainly , ma'am , responded the chamber maid . 
'Nothing but these 'ere trunks , ma'am ? inquired the guard . 
'Nothing more , replied the lady . 
Up got the outsides again , and the guard , and the coachman off came the cloths , with a jerk 'All right , was the cry and away they went . 
The loungers lingered a minute or two in the road , watching the coach until it turned the corner , and then loitered away one by one . 
The street was clear again , and the town , by contrast , quieter than ever . 
'Lady in number twenty five , screamed the landlady . 
'Thomas ! 'Yes , ma'am . 
'Letter just been left for the gentleman in number nineteen . 
Boots at the Lion left it . 
'Letter for you , sir , said Thomas , depositing the letter on number nineteen's table . 
'For me ? said number nineteen , turning from the window , out of which he had been surveying the scene just described . 
'yes , sir , Boots at the Lion , sir , Bar , sir , Missis said number nineteen , sir Alexander Trott , Esq . 
, sir ? Your card at the bar , sir , I think , sir ? 'My name IS Trott , replied number nineteen , breaking the seal . 
'You may go , waiter . 
There was , evidently , something in the contents of the letter , of a nature , if not wholly unexpected , certainly extremely disagreeable . 
He threw himself into a chair , and read the following epistle aloud 'Blue Lion and Stomach warmer , 'Great Winglebury . 
Immediately on discovering your intentions , I left our counting house , and followed you . 
I know the purport of your journey that journey shall never be completed . 
'I have no friend here , just now , on whose secrecy I can rely . 
This shall be no obstacle to my revenge . 
From Great Winglebury church , a footpath leads through four meadows to a retired spot known to the townspeople as Stiffun's Acre . 
'I shall be waiting there alone , at twenty minutes before six o'clock to morrow morning . 
Should I be disappointed in seeing you there , I will do myself the pleasure of calling with a horsewhip . 
There is a gunsmiths in the High street and they won't sell gunpowder after dark you understand me . 
You had better not order your breakfast in the morning until you have met me . 
It may be an unnecessary expense . 
'Desperate minded villain ! I knew how it would be ! ejaculated the terrified Trott . 
'I always told father , that once start me on this expedition , and Hunter would pursue me like the Wandering Jew . 
, I'm as good as dead . 
His mental direction post pointed to London . 
He thought of the 'governor's' anger , and the loss of the fortune which the paternal Brown had promised the paternal Trott his daughter should contribute to the coffers of his son . 
He then wrote another letter , and requested the attendance of the other boots for they kept a pair . 
A modest knock at the room door was heard . 
'Come in , said Mr. Trott . 
'You are the upper boots , I think ? inquired Mr. Trott . 
Top boots and half boots , I calls us . 
'You're from London ? inquired Mr. Trott . 
'Driv a cab once , was the laconic reply . 
'Why don't you drive it now ? asked Mr. Trott . 
'Over driv the cab , and driv over a 'ooman , replied the top boots , with brevity . 
'Do you know the mayor's house ? inquired Mr. Trott . 
'Rather , replied the boots , significantly , as if he had some good reason to remember it . 
'Do you think you could manage to leave a letter there ? interrogated Trott . 
'Shouldn't wonder , responded boots . 
'But this letter , said Trott , holding a deformed note with a paralytic direction in one hand , and five shillings in the other 'this letter is anonymous . 
'A what ? interrupted the boots . 
'Anonymous he's not to know who it comes from . 
'But , I say ! he continued , recalling the eye from its search , and bringing it to bear on Mr. Trott . 
'I say , he's a lawyer , our mayor , and insured in the County . 
If you've a spite agen him , you'd better not burn his house down blessed if I don't think it would be the greatest favour you could do him . 
He contented himself , however , with doubling the fee and explaining that the letter merely related to a breach of the peace . 
'Show the gentleman in , said the stranger lady , in reply to the foremost waiter's announcement . 
The gentleman was shown in accordingly . 
'Miss Julia Manners ! exclaimed the mayor at length , 'you astonish me . 
'But to run away actually run away with a young man ! remonstrated the mayor . 
'You wouldn't have me actually run away with an old one , I presume ? was the cool rejoinder . 
'Now , Overton , replied the lady , 'I want your assistance in this matter , and I must have it . 
You helped yourself then help me now . 
Dear Lord Peter 'That's the young man , I suppose interrupted the mayor . 
'That's the young Nobleman , replied the lady , with a great stress on the last word . 
'Dear Lord Peter is considerably afraid of the resentment of his family and we have therefore thought it better to make the match a stolen one . 
If I don't show myself much , I dare say I can manage to pass for his mother . 
The thought occurred to the mayor's mind that the lady might show herself a good deal without fear of detection seeing that she was about double the age of her intended husband . 
He said nothing , however , and the lady proceeded . 
'Has he arrived ? inquired Overton . 
'I don't know , replied the lady . 
'Then how am I to know ! inquired the mayor . 
'Of course he will not give his own name at the bar . 
Oh ! here it is . 
And Joseph Overton pulled out of an inner coat pocket the identical letter penned by Alexander Trott . 
These dear , wild young noblemen , you know , Overton 'Ay , ay , I see , replied the mayor . 
'Horses and dogs , play and wine grooms , actresses , and cigars the stable , the green room , the saloon , and the tavern and the legislative assembly at last . 
'Oh ! I see not much fear of that well two human lives , you will cause him to be removed to night . 
Fear not to do this on your responsibility for to morrow the absolute necessity of the proceeding will be but too apparent . 
No delay for life and death depend upon your promptitude . 
Shall I see him ? 'Do , replied Miss Julia 'and entreat him to act his part well . 
I am half afraid of him . 
Tell him to be cautious . 
'I will , said the mayor . 
'I will , said the mayor again . 
'And say I think the chaise had better be ordered for one o'clock . 
One glance at Joseph Overton , however , quieted his apprehensions . 
He courteously motioned the stranger to a seat . 
'Hush hush ! said the cautious attorney 'to be sure quite right no titles here my name is Overton , sir . 
'Overton ? 'Yes the mayor of this place you sent me a letter with anonymous information , this afternoon . 
'I , sir ? exclaimed Trott with ill dissembled surprise for , coward as he was , he would willingly have repudiated the authorship of the letter in question . 
'I , sir ? 'Yes , you , sir did you not ? responded Overton , annoyed with what he supposed to be an extreme degree of unnecessary suspicion . 
'Either this letter is yours , or it is not . 
If it be , we can converse securely upon the subject at once . 
If it be not , of course I have no more to say . 
'Stay , stay , said Trott , 'it IS mine I DID write it . 
What could I do , sir ? I had no friend here . 
'To be sure , to be sure , said the mayor , encouragingly , 'you could not have managed it better . 
Well , sir it will be necessary for you to leave here to night in a post chaise and four . 
And the harder the boys drive , the better . 
You are not safe from pursuit . 
However , in the present instance the lady is willing , you know , and that's the main point , after all . 
'Lady willing , repeated Trott , mechanically . 
'Dear me ! said Mr. Trott , ruminating . 
'This is VERY extraordinary ! 'Well , Lord Peter , said the mayor , rising . 
'Lord Peter ? repeated Mr. Trott . 
'Oh ah , I forgot . 
Mr. Trott , then Trott very good , ha ! ha ! Well , sir , the chaise shall be ready at half past twelve . 
'And what is to become of me until then ? inquired Mr. Trott , anxiously . 
'Wouldn't it save appearances , if I were placed under some restraint ? 'Ah ! replied Overton , 'very good thought capital idea indeed . 
I'll send somebody up directly . 
And if you make a little resistance when we put you in the chaise it wouldn't be amiss look as if you didn't want to be taken away , you know . 
'To be sure , said Trott 'to be sure . 
'Well , my lord , said Overton , in a low tone , 'until then , I wish your lordship a good evening . 
'Lord lordship ? ejaculated Trott again , falling back a step or two , and gazing , in unutterable wonder , on the countenance of the mayor . 
'What do you want here , you scoundrel ? exclaimed Mr. Alexander Trott , with a proper appearance of indignation at his detention . 
The boots beat time with his head , as he looked gently round at Mr. Trott with a smile of pity , and whistled an ADAGIO movement . 
'Do you attend in this room by Mr. Overton's desire ? inquired Trott , rather astonished at the man's demeanour . 
'Keep yourself to yourself , young feller , calmly responded the boots , 'and don't say nothing to nobody . 
'Now mind ! ejaculated Mr. Trott , anxious to keep up the farce of wishing with great earnestness to fight a duel if they'd let him . 
'I protest against being kept here . 
I deny that I have any intention of fighting with anybody . 
But as it's useless contending with superior numbers , I shall sit quietly down . 
'You'd better , observed the placid boots , shaking the large stick expressively . 
'Under protest , however , added Alexander Trott , seating himself with indignation in his face , but great content in his heart . 
'Oh , certainly ! responded the boots 'anything you please . 
If you're happy , I'm transported only don't talk too much it'll make you worse . 
'Or mad ! said Mr. Trott , rather alarmed . 
'Leave the room , sir , and tell them to send somebody else . 
'Won't do ! replied the boots . 
'Leave the room ! shouted Trott , ringing the bell violently for he began to be alarmed on a new score . 
'Leave that 'ere bell alone , you wretched loo nattic ! said the boots , suddenly forcing the unfortunate Trott back into his chair , and brandishing the stick aloft . 
'Be quiet , you miserable object , and don't let everybody know there's a madman in the house . 
'He IS a madman ! He IS a madman ! exclaimed the terrified Mr. Trott , gazing on the one eye of the red headed boots with a look of abject horror . 
'Madman ! replied the boots , 'dam'me , I think he IS a madman with a vengeance ! Listen to me , you unfortunate . 
'I don't want your life , replied the boots , disdainfully , 'though I think it 'ud be a charity if somebody took it . 
Long and dreary were the hours that followed . 
The bell of Great Winglebury church had just struck ten , and two hours and a half would probably elapse before succour arrived . 
That unfortunate individual stared at his companion in his turn , until his features grew more and more indistinct his hair gradually less red and the room more misty and obscure . 
Overton ! exclaimed Mr. Alexander Trott , jumping up in a frenzy . 
'Bravo ! whispered Mr. Overton . 
'Poor dear ! said the compassionate Mrs. Williamson , 'mad people always thinks other people's mad . 
'Poor dear ! ejaculated Mr. Alexander Trott . 
'Capital , capital , whispered Overton again , as he enveloped Mr. Alexander Trott in a thick travelling cloak . 
'Capital , sir ! exclaimed Trott , aloud 'it's horrible . 
The very recollection makes me shudder . 
I'd rather fight four duels in three hours , if I survived the first three , than I'd sit for that time face to face with a madman . 
'Keep it up , my lord , as you go down stairs , whispered Overton , 'your bill is paid , and your portmanteau in the chaise . 
And then he added aloud , 'Now , waiters , the gentleman's ready . 
At this signal , the waiters crowded round Mr. Alexander Trott . 
Mr. Overton was waiting at the chaise door , the boys were ready mounted , and a few ostlers and stable nondescripts were standing round to witness the departure of 'the mad gentleman . 
a figure seated in the chaise , closely muffled up in a cloak like his own . 
'Who's that ? he inquired of Overton , in a whisper . 
'Hush , hush , replied the mayor 'the other party of course . 
'The other party ! exclaimed Trott , with an effort to retreat . 
'Yes , yes you'll soon find that out , before you go far , I should think but make a noise , you'll excite suspicion if you whisper to me so much . 
'I won't go in this chaise ! shouted Mr. Alexander Trott , all his original fears recurring with tenfold violence . 
'I shall be assassinated I shall be 'Bravo , bravo , whispered Overton . 
'But I won't go , exclaimed Mr. Trott . 
'Help here , help ! They're carrying me away against my will . 
This is a plot to murder me . 
'Poor dear ! said Mrs. Williamson again . 
'Now , boys , put 'em along , cried the mayor , pushing Trott in and slamming the door . 
'We may speak now , said his fellow traveller , at length 'the post boys can neither see nor hear us . 
'That's not Hunter's voice ! thought Alexander , astonished . 
'Dear Lord Peter ! said Miss Julia , most winningly putting her arm on Mr. Trott's shoulder . 
Not a word ? 'Why , it's a woman ! exclaimed Mr. Trott , in a low tone of excessive wonder . 
'Ah ! Whose voice is that ? said Julia ''tis not Lord Peter's . 
'No , it's mine , replied Mr. Trott . 
'Do you come from Lord Peter ? inquired Miss Manners . 
'Confound Lord Peter , replied Trott pettishly . 
'I don't know any Lord Peter . 
'How should I know , ma'am ? replied Trott with singular coolness for the events of the evening had completely hardened him . 
'Stop stop ! cried the lady , letting down the front glasses of the chaise . 
'Stay , my dear ma'am ! said Mr. Trott , pulling the glasses up again with one hand , and gently squeezing Miss Julia's waist with the other . 
'There is some mistake here give me till the end of this stage to explain my share of it . 
We must go so far you cannot be set down here alone , at this hour of the night . 
The lady consented the mistake was mutually explained . 
And the very next preceding entry in the Blacksmith's book , was an entry of the marriage of Emily Brown with Horace Hunter . 
Mr. Hunter took his wife home , and begged pardon , and WAS pardoned and Mr. Trott took HIS wife home , begged pardon too , and was pardoned also . 
, and great was the anxiety of Mr. Gattleton's interesting family , as the day fixed for the representation of the Private Play which had been 'many months in preparation , approached . 
The bedrooms were crowded with scenery , the kitchen was occupied by carpenters . 
'When we're a LEETLE more perfect , I think it will go admirably , said Mr. Sempronius , addressing his CORPS DRAMATIQUE , at the conclusion of the hundred and fiftieth rehearsal . 
In consideration of his sustaining the trifling inconvenience of bearing all the expenses of the play , Mr. Sempronius had been , in the most handsome manner , unanimously elected stage manager . 
'Evans , continued Mr. Gattleton , the younger , addressing a tall , thin , pale young gentleman , with extensive whiskers 'Evans , you play RODERIGO beautifully . 
'Beautifully , echoed the three Miss Gattletons for Mr. Evans was pronounced by all his lady friends to be 'quite a dear . 
He looked so interesting , and had such lovely whiskers to say nothing of his talent for writing verses in albums and playing the flute ! RODERIGO simpered and bowed . 
Being obliged to fall backward you see , it bruises one's head a good deal . 
'The stage is very narrow , you know . 
'Oh ! don't be afraid , said Mr. Evans , with a very self satisfied air 'I shall fall with my head off , and then I can't do any harm . 
'But , egad , said the manager , rubbing his hands , 'we shall make a decided hit in Masaniello . 
Harleigh sings that music admirably . 
Mr. Harleigh smiled , and looked foolish not an unusual thing with him hummed' Behold how brightly breaks the morning , and blushed as red as the fisherman's nightcap he was trying on . 
'Let's see , resumed the manager , telling the number on his fingers , 'we shall have three dancing female peasants , besides FENELLA , and four fishermen . 
In the choruses , of course , we can sing at the sides and in the market scene we can walk about in cloaks and things . 
When the revolt takes place , Tom must keep rushing in on one side and out on the other , with a pickaxe , as fast as he can . 
The effect will be electrical it will look exactly as if there were an immense number of 'em . 
And in the eruption scene we must burn the red fire , and upset the tea trays , and make all sorts of noises and it's sure to do . 
Mrs. Gattleton was a kind , good tempered , vulgar soul , exceedingly fond of her husband and children , and entertaining only three dislikes . 
'Just what I should have thought from your high sense of propriety , returned the mother . 
'I am glad to see , Emma , you know how to designate the proceeding . 
Upon my word ! think of the Miss Gattletons in fancy dresses , too ! 'Oh , it's too ridiculous ! said Miss Porter , hysterically . 
'I'll manage to put them a little out of conceit with the business , however , said Mrs. Porter and out she went on her charitable errand . 
Ah , my dear Miss Lucina , how d'ye do ? I was just telling your mamma that I have heard it said , that 'What ? 'Mrs . 
'Highly impertinent , whoever said it , said Mrs. Gattleton , bridling up . 
Uncle Tom was very rich , and exceedingly fond of his nephews and nieces as a matter of course , therefore , he was an object of great importance in his own family . 
He was one of the best hearted men in existence always in a good temper , and always talking . 
That's the way , my dear trust to your uncle for emphasis . 
'Of course we see you on Thursday . 
'Of course , of course , my dear boy . 
'What a pity it is your nephew didn't think of making you prompter , Mr. Balderstone ! whispered Mrs. Joseph Porter 'you would have been invaluable . 
'Well , I flatter myself , I SHOULD have been tolerably up to the thing , responded Uncle Tom . 
I shall be so interested . 
'I am sure I shall be most happy to give you any assistance in my power' 'Mind , it's a bargain . 
I am sure she's scheming something . 
'She can't make us ridiculous , however , observed Mr. Sempronius Gattleton , haughtily . 
The long looked for Thursday arrived in due course , and brought with it , as Mr. Gattleton , senior , philosophically observed , 'no disappointments , to speak of . 
True , it was yet a matter of doubt whether CASSIO would be enabled to get into the dress which had been sent for him from the masquerade warehouse . 
What of that ? the audience were all coming . 
Seven o'clock came , and so did the audience all the rank and fashion of Clapham and its vicinity was fast filling the theatre . 
Ting , ting , ting ! went the prompter's bell at eight o'clock precisely , and dash went the orchestra into the overture to 'The Men of Prometheus . 
The pianoforte player hammered away with laudable perseverance and the violoncello , which struck in at intervals , 'sounded very well , considering . 
It is , however , but justice to Mr. Brown to say that he did this to admiration . 
A considerable bustle and shuffling of feet was then heard upon the stage , accompanied by whispers of 'Here's a pretty go ! what's to be done ? c . 
Ting , ting , ting ! went the bell again . 
Everybody sat down the curtain shook rose sufficiently high to display several pair of yellow boots paddling about and there remained . 
Ting , ting , ting ! went the bell again . 
Under these circumstances , I trust a a amateur performance a another gentleman undertaken to read the part request indulgence for a short time courtesy and kindness of a British audience . 
Exit Mr. Sempronius Gattleton , and curtain falls . 
The former was therefore compelled to undress , and the latter to dress for his part which , as he found some difficulty in getting into his clothes , occupied no inconsiderable time . 
At last , the tragedy began in real earnest . 
, Mrs. Porter found the opportunity she so anxiously sought . 
'Tell him so , then . 
Sem ! called out Uncle Tom , 'that's wrong , my boy . 
'What's wrong , uncle ? demanded OTHELLO , quite forgetting the dignity of his situation . 
Why don't you prompt , father ? 'Because I've mislaid my spectacles , said poor Mr. Gattleton , almost dead with the heat and bustle . 
'There , now it's rude am I , said Uncle Tom . 
'Yes , I know it is , returned the unfortunate manager , proceeding with his part . 
Several other minor causes , too , united to damp the ardour of the DRAMATIS PERSONAE . 
The pianoforte player , overpowered by the extreme heat of the room , fainted away at the commencement of the entertainments , leaving the music of 'Masaniello' to the flute and violoncello . 
The orchestra complained that Mr. Harleigh put them out , and Mr. Harleigh declared that the orchestra prevented his singing a note . 
In short , the whole affair was , as Mrs. Joseph Porter triumphantly told everybody , 'a complete failure . 
The audience went home at four o'clock in the morning , exhausted with laughter , suffering from severe headaches , and smelling terribly of brimstone and gunpowder . 
Gattleton , senior and junior , retired to rest , with the vague idea of emigrating to Swan River early in the ensuing week . 
CHAPTER X A PASSAGE IN THE LIFE OF MR . 
WATKINS TOTTLE CHAPTER THE FIRST Matrimony is proverbially a serious undertaking . 
Like an over weening predilection for brandy and water , it is a misfortune into which a man easily falls , and from which he finds it remarkably difficult to extricate himself . 
It is of no use telling a man who is timorous on these points , that it is but one plunge , and all is over . 
They say the same thing at the Old Bailey , and the unfortunate victims derive as much comfort from the assurance in the one case as in the other . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle was a rather uncommon compound of strong uxorious inclinations , and an unparalleled degree of anti connubial timidity . 
He was about fifty years of age stood four feet six inches and three quarters in his socks for he never stood in stockings at all plump , clean , and rosy . 
He lived on an annuity , which was well adapted to the individual who received it , in one respect it was rather small . 
'Who's there ? inquired Mr. Watkins Tottle , as a gentle tap at his room door disturbed these meditations one evening . 
'Told you I should drop in some evening , said the short gentleman , as he delivered his hat into Tottle's hand , after a little struggling and dodging . 
The fortnight was nearly up , and Watkins was hard up . 
'How is Mrs. Gabriel Parsons ? inquired Tottle . 
'Quite well , thank you , replied Mr. Gabriel Parsons , for that was the name the short gentleman revelled in . 
Here there was a pause the short gentleman looked at the left hob of the fireplace Mr. Watkins Tottle stared vacancy out of countenance . 
'Quite well , repeated the short gentleman , when five minutes had expired . 
'I may say remarkably well . 
And he rubbed the palms of his hands as hard as if he were going to strike a light by friction . 
Mr. Tottle smiled but it was the smile of despair . 
When Mr. Gabriel Parsons had done laughing , he delicately insinuated that , in the absence of whiskey , he would not be averse to brandy . 
The application was successful the spirits were speedily called not from the vasty deep , but the adjacent wine vaults . 
The two short gentlemen mixed their grog and then sat cosily down before the fire a pair of shorts , airing themselves . 
'Tottle , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , 'you know my way off hand , open , say what I mean , mean what I say , hate reserve , and can't bear affectation . 
Now listen to what I'm going to say . 
Here , the little gentleman paused , and took a long pull at his brandy and water . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle took a sip of his , stirred the fire , and assumed an air of profound attention . 
'It's of no use humming and ha'ing about the matter , resumed the short gentleman . 
'You want to get married . 
'Plain and free or there's an end of the matter . 
Do you want money ? 'You know I do . 
'You admire the sex ? 'I do . 
'And you'd like to be married ? 'Certainly . 
There's an end of that . 
Thus saying , Mr. Gabriel Parsons took a pinch of snuff , and mixed another glass . 
'Let me entreat you to be more explanatory , said Tottle . 
'Really , as the party principally interested , I cannot consent to be disposed of , in this way . 
'I'll pay my addresses to her , said Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'She isn't VERY young is she ? 'Not very just the thing for you . 
'What coloured hair has the lady ? inquired Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'Egad , I hardly recollect , replied Gabriel , with coolness . 
'Perhaps I ought to have observed , at first , she wears a front . 
'A what ? ejaculated Tottle . 
'One of those things with curls , along here , said Parsons , drawing a straight line across his forehead , just over his eyes , in illustration of his meaning . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle looked as if he had certain misgivings of mind . 
Mr. Gabriel Parsons perceived it , and thought it would be safe to begin the next attack without delay . 
'Now , were you ever in love , Tottle ? he inquired . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle blushed up to the eyes , and down to the chin , and exhibited a most extensive combination of colours as he confessed the soft impeachment . 
'I suppose you popped the question , more than once , when you were a young I beg your pardon a younger man , said Parsons . 
'Never in my life ! replied his friend , apparently indignant at being suspected of such an act . 
'Never ! The fact is , that I entertain , as you know , peculiar opinions on these subjects . 
'I shouldn't wonder if you were , replied Parsons , gravely 'I shouldn't wonder . 
However , you'll be all right in this case for the strictness and delicacy of this lady's ideas greatly exceed your own . 
'I think so , too , said Mr. Watkins Tottle 'certainly . 
She instantly threw up her cards , and left the room . 
'Quite right ! said Mr. Watkins Tottle 'she could not possibly have behaved in a more dignified manner . 
What did you do ? 'Do ? Frank took dummy and I won sixpence . 
'But , didn't you apologise for hurting her feelings ? 'Devil a bit . 
Next morning at breakfast , we talked it over . 
She contended that any reference to a flannel petticoat was improper men ought not to be supposed to know that such things were . 
I pleaded my coverture being a married man . 
'And what did the lady say to that ? inquired Tottle , deeply interested . 
'Changed her ground , and said that Frank being a single man , its impropriety was obvious . 
'Noble minded creature ! exclaimed the enraptured Tottle . 
'Oh ! both Fanny and I said , at once , that she was regularly cut out for you . 
A gleam of placid satisfaction shone on the circular face of Mr. Watkins Tottle , as he heard the prophecy . 
The lady would certainly go into convulsions if the subject were mentioned . 
Mr. Gabriel Parsons sat down again , and laughed until he was weak . 
Tottle owed him money , so he had a perfect right to laugh at Tottle's expense . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle feared , in his own mind , that this was another characteristic which he had in common with this modern Lucretia . 
The coach stopped , and Mr. Watkins Tottle jumped we beg his pardon alighted , with great dignity . 
'All right ! said he , and away went the coach up the hill with that beautiful equanimity of pace for which 'short' stages are generally remarkable . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle gave a faltering jerk to the handle of the garden gate bell . 
He essayed a more energetic tug , and his previous nervousness was not at all diminished by hearing the bell ringing like a fire alarum . 
'Is Mr. Parsons at home ? inquired Tottle of the man who opened the gate . 
He could hardly hear himself speak , for the bell had not yet done tolling . 
When the gentleman without the coat had found it which he did in less than ten minutes he ran back to the hats , and Gabriel Parsons pulled up . 
Then , the gentleman without the coat called out 'play , very loudly , and bowled . 
Then Mr. Gabriel Parsons knocked the ball several yards , and took another run . 
'Tottle , will you go in ? inquired Mr. Gabriel Parsons , as he approached him , wiping the perspiration off his face . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle declined the offer , the bare idea of accepting which made him even warmer than his friend . 
'Then we'll go into the house , as it's past four , and I shall have to wash my hands before dinner , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle bowed stiffly . 
Mr. Gabriel Parsons led the way to the house . 
He was a rich sugar baker , who mistook rudeness for honesty , and abrupt bluntness for an open and candid manner many besides Gabriel mistake bluntness for sincerity . 
Mrs. Gabriel Parsons received the visitors most graciously on the steps , and preceded them to the drawing room . 
On the sofa , was seated a lady of very prim appearance , and remarkably inanimate . 
Her complexion with a slight trace of powder here and there was as clear as that of a well made wax doll , and her face as expressive . 
She was handsomely dressed , and was winding up a gold watch . 
'Miss Lillerton , my dear , this is our friend Mr. Watkins Tottle a very old acquaintance I assure you , said Mrs. Parsons , presenting the Strephon of Cecil street , Strand . 
The lady rose , and made a deep courtesy Mr. Watkins Tottle made a bow . 
'Splendid , majestic creature ! thought Tottle . 
Mr. Timson advanced , and Mr. Watkins Tottle began to hate him . 
Men generally discover a rival , instinctively , and Mr. Watkins Tottle felt that his hate was deserved . 
'You are truly charitable , madam , said the Reverend Mr. Timson , 'and we know that charity will cover a multitude of sins . 
Something like a bad imitation of animation lighted up the lady's face , as she acknowledged the compliment . 
Watkins Tottle incurred the sin of wishing that the ashes of the Reverend Charles Timson were quietly deposited in the churchyard of his curacy , wherever it might be . 
'You are so severe , replied Timson , with a Christian smile he disliked Parsons , but liked his dinners . 
'So positively unjust ! said Miss Lillerton . 
The lady looked up her eyes met those of Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
She withdrew them in a sweet confusion , and Watkins Tottle did the same the confusion was mutual . 
'Really , Mr. Parsons , I hope you don't mean to insinuate that I wish to see MY name in print , on the church door , interrupted Miss Lillerton . 
'I hope not , said Mr. Watkins Tottle , putting in another word , and getting another glance . 
'Certainly not , replied Parsons . 
'I dare say you wouldn't mind seeing it in writing , though , in the church register eh ? 'Register ! What register ? inquired the lady gravely . 
'Why , the register of marriages , to be sure , replied Parsons , chuckling at the sally , and glancing at Tottle . 
The room was very snug , the dinner very good , and the little party in spirits . 
'What do you think of her ? inquired Mr. Gabriel Parsons of Mr. Watkins Tottle , in an under tone . 
'I dote on her with enthusiasm already ! replied Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'Gentlemen , pray let us drink the ladies , said the Reverend Mr. Timson . 
'The ladies ! said Mr. Watkins Tottle , emptying his glass . 
In the fulness of his confidence , he felt as if he could make love to a dozen ladies , off hand . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , 'I remember when I was a young man fill your glass , Timson . 
'I have this moment emptied it . 
'I will , said Timson , suiting the action to the word . 
'Was that before you were married ? mildly inquired Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'Oh ! certainly , replied Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'I have never thought so since and a precious milksop I must have been , ever to have thought so at all . 
But , you know , I married Fanny under the oddest , and most ridiculous circumstances possible . 
'What were they , if one may inquire ? asked Timson , who had heard the story , on an average , twice a week for the last six months . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle listened attentively , in the hope of picking up some suggestion that might be useful to him in his new undertaking . 
'I spent my wedding night in a back kitchen chimney , said Parsons , by way of a beginning . 
'In a back kitchen chimney ! ejaculated Watkins Tottle . 
'How dreadful ! 'Yes , it wasn't very pleasant , replied the small host . 
'The fact is , Fanny's father and mother liked me well enough as an individual , but had a decided objection to my becoming a husband . 
You see , I hadn't any money in those days , and they had and so they wanted Fanny to pick up somebody else . 
However , we managed to discover the state of each other's affections somehow . 
Well , I borrowed a pound , and bribed the housemaid to give her the note , which she did . 
'And what was the reply ? inquired Timson , who had found , before , that to encourage the repetition of old stories is to get a general invitation . 
'You didn't go , of course ? said Watkins Tottle . 
'Didn't I ? Of course I did . 
There she was , with the identical housemaid in perspective , in order that there might be no interruption . 
We walked about , for a couple of hours made ourselves delightfully miserable and were regularly engaged . 
Then , we began to correspond that is to say , we used to exchange about four letters a day what we used to say in 'em I can't imagine . 
And I used to have an interview , in the kitchen , or the cellar , or some such place , every evening . 
Well , things went on in this way for some time and we got fonder of each other every day . 
At last , as our love was raised to such a pitch , and as my salary had been raised too , shortly before , we determined on a secret marriage . 
Fanny arranged to sleep at a friend's , on the previous night we were to be married early in the morning and then we were to return to her home and be pathetic . 
My newly made wife returned home , and I spent my wedding day in strolling about Hampstead heath , and execrating my father in law . 
Of course , I went to comfort my dear little wife at night , as much as I could , with the assurance that our troubles would soon be over . 
'Make love upon a kitchen dresser ! interrupted Mr. Watkins Tottle , whose ideas of decorum were greatly outraged . 
'Ah ! On a kitchen dresser ! replied Parsons . 
However , let me see where was I ? 'On the dresser , suggested Timson . 
'Oh ah ! Well , here I found poor Fanny , quite disconsolate and uncomfortable . 
The old boy had been very cross all day , which made her feel still more lonely and she was quite out of spirits . 
There was only one thing to be done . 
My hopes and fortune the means of our joint existence almost were at stake . 
I heard him draw the beer and I never heard beer run so slowly . 
He was just leaving the kitchen , and I was preparing to descend , when down came the infernal chimney board with a tremendous crash . 
He stopped and put down the candle and the jug of beer on the dresser he was a nervous old fellow , and any unexpected noise annoyed him . 
The old dog had nailed me up so securely , that , to this very hour , I firmly believe that no one but a carpenter could ever have got me out . 
'That's the very housemaid that figures in my story , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
Now , shall we join the ladies ? 'If you please , said Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'By all means , added the obsequious Mr. Timson and the trio made for the drawing room accordingly . 
Tea being concluded , and the toast and cups having been duly handed , and occasionally upset , by Mr. Watkins Tottle , a rubber was proposed . 
They cut for partners Mr. and Mrs. Parsons and Mr. Watkins Tottle and Miss Lillerton . 
Mr. Timson having conscientious scruples on the subject of card playing , drank brandy and water , and kept up a running spar with Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'It's all right , I think , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons to Mr. Watkins Tottle as he opened the garden gate for him . 
'I hope so , he replied , squeezing his friend's hand . 
'You'll be down by the first coach on Saturday , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'Certainly , replied Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
But fortune had decreed that Mr. Watkins Tottle should not be down by the first coach on Saturday . 
His adventures on that day , however , and the success of his wooing , are subjects for another chapter . 
'No , sir I haven't seen it , replied a gardener in a blue apron , who let himself out to do the ornamental for half a crown a day and his 'keep . 
Parsons ? said the man , looking at the superscription of a note he held in his hand , and addressing Gabriel with an inquiring air . 
'MY name is Parsons , responded the sugar baker . 
'I've brought this here note , replied the individual in the painted tops , in a hoarse whisper 'I've brought this here note from a gen'lm'n as come to our house this mornin' . 
'I expected the gentleman at my house , said Parsons , as he broke the seal , which bore the impression of her Majesty's profile as it is seen on a sixpence . 
He therefore only bestowed a glance of profound astonishment on his mysterious companion , and proceeded to unfold the note of which he had been the bearer . 
Once opened and the idea was caught with very little difficulty . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle had been suddenly arrested for L. S. D. , and dated his communication from a lock up house in the vicinity of Chancery lane . 
'Unfortunate affair this ! said Parsons , refolding the note . 
'Oh ! nothin' ven you're used to it , coolly observed the man in the Petersham . 
'Werry well , replied that important functionary adding , in a confidential manner , 'I'd adwise the gen'lm'n's friends to settle . 
You see it's a mere trifle and , unless the gen'lm'n means to go up afore the court , it's hardly worth while waiting for detainers , you know . 
Our governor's wide awake , he is . 
I'll never say nothin' agin him , nor no man but he knows what's o'clock , he does , uncommon . 
Mr. Gabriel Parsons continued to pace up and down the pathway for some minutes , apparently absorbed in deep meditation . 
in Cursitor street , Chancery lane . 
The remark is by no means a new one , and Mr. Gabriel Parsons had practical and painful experience of its justice in the course of his drive . 
, he soon found himself opposite the house of Mr. Solomon Jacobs . 
'I want to see Mr. Watkins Tottle , said Parsons . 
'The gentleman's in the coffee room . 
Being informed that the unfortunate object of his visit had just gone up stairs to write a letter , he had leisure to sit down and observe the scene before him . 
The room which was a small , confined den was partitioned off into boxes , like the common room of some inferior eating house . 
From this cheerful room itself , the attention of Mr. Gabriel Parsons was naturally directed to its inmates . 
'Well , that a'n't a bad un , replied the other , who was a horse dealer from Islington . 
'Here's your health , sir , and your good 'ooman's here . 
Gentlemen all yours , and better luck still . 
Well , Mr. Willis , continued the facetious prisoner , addressing the young man with the cigar , 'you seem rather down to day floored , as one may say . 
What's the matter , sir ? Never say die , you know . 
'Oh ! I'm all right , replied the smoker . 
'I shall be bailed out to morrow . 
'Shall you , though ? inquired the other . 
'Damme , I wish I could say the same . 
I am as regularly over head and ears as the Royal George , and stand about as much chance of being BAILED OUT . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! 'Why , said the young man , stopping short , and speaking in a very loud key , 'look at me . 
What d'ye think I've stopped here two days for ? ''Cause you couldn't get out , I suppose , interrupted Mr. Walker , winking to the company . 
'Not that you're exactly obliged to stop here , only you can't help it . 
No compulsion , you know , only you must eh ? 'A'n't he a rum un ? inquired the delighted individual , who had offered the gin and water , of his wife . 
'Oh , he just is ! replied the lady , who was quite overcome by these flashes of imagination . 
My father's a man of large property , and I am his son . 
'That's a very strange circumstance ! interrupted the jocose Mr. Walker , EN PASSANT . 
I am his son , and have received a liberal education . 
What's the consequence ? 'Why , I suppose the bills went out , and you came in . 
The acceptances weren't taken up , and you were , eh ? inquired Walker . 
'To be sure , replied the liberally educated young gentleman . 
'To be sure and so here I am , locked up for a matter of twelve hundred pound . 
'Why don't you ask your old governor to stump up ? inquired Walker , with a somewhat sceptical air . 
'Oh ! it's always the cry , said Walker . 
'I can't see the use on it that's what makes me so wild . 
Why , I should have a much better opinion of an individual , if he'd say at once in an honourable and gentlemanly manner as he'd done everybody he possibly could . 
It was broken by the wife of the ex fruiterer . 
'Poor creetur ! said she , quenching a sigh in a rivulet of gin and water . 
'She's a nice looking 'ooman too , added the horse dealer . 
'Vy , responded the factotum , 'it's one of the rummiest rigs you ever heard on . 
He come in here last Vensday , which by the bye he's a going over the water to night hows'ever that's neither here nor there . 
'Let me alone , replied Ikey , 'and I'll ha' wound up , and made my lucky in five seconds . 
He seed her several times , and then he up and said he'd keep company with her , if so be as she vos agreeable . 
When they heard on it my eyes , there was such a combustion ! Starvation vos the very least that vos to be done to 'em . 
He vos brought here , as I said afore , last Vensday , and I think there's about ah , half a dozen detainers agin him down stairs now . 
'Ah ! when they've seen as much trouble as I and my old man here have , they'll be as comfortable under it as we are . 
'The young lady's a pretty creature , said Walker , 'only she's a little too delicate for my taste there ain't enough of her . 
As to the young cove , he may be very respectable and what not , but he's too down in the mouth for me he ain't game . 
I never shall forget her first comin' here he wrote to her on the Thursday to come I know he did , 'cos I took the letter . 
So then he turns round to me , and says , Ikey , put two mould candles in the back parlour , and charge 'em to this gen'lm'n's account , vich I did . 
Oh , Harry ! she says , that it should have come to this and all for my sake , says she , putting her hand upon his shoulder . 
Watkins advanced with a wooden expression of passive endurance , and accepted the hand which Mr. Gabriel Parsons held out . 
'I want to speak to you , said Gabriel , with a look strongly expressive of his dislike of the company . 
'This way , replied the imprisoned one , leading the way to the front drawing room , where rich debtors did the luxurious at the rate of a couple of guineas a day . 
'Yes and here you're likely to be , said Gabriel , coolly , as he rattled the money in his unmentionable pockets , and looked out of the window . 
'What's the amount with the costs ? inquired Parsons , after an awkward pause . 
'Have you any money ? 'Nine and sixpence halfpenny . 
At length he stopped short , and said , 'Tottle , you owe me fifty pounds . 
'And from all I see , I infer that you are likely to owe it to me . 
'Though you have every disposition to pay me if you could ? 'Certainly . 
'Then , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , 'listen here's my proposition . 
You know my way of old . 
Accept it yes or no I will or I won't . 
if you'll give me your note of hand to pay me one hundred and fifty pounds within six months after you are married to Miss Lillerton . 
'My dear 'Stop a minute on one condition and that is , that you propose to Miss Lillerton at once . 
'At once ! My dear Parsons , consider . 
'It's for you to consider , not me . 
She knows you well from reputation , though she did not know you personally until lately . 
Notwithstanding all her maiden modesty , I think she'd be devilish glad to get married out of hand with as little delay as possible . 
My wife has sounded her on the subject , and she has confessed . 
'What what ? eagerly interrupted the enamoured Watkins . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle rose hastily from his seat , and rang the bell . 
'What's that for ? inquired Parsons . 
'I want to send the man for the bill stamp , replied Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'Then you've made up your mind ? 'I have , and they shook hands most cordially . 
'Now , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , as they drove to Norwood together 'you shall have an opportunity to make the disclosure to night , and mind you speak out , Tottle . 
'I will I will ! replied Watkins , valorously . 
'How I should like to see you together , ejaculated Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'What fun ! and he laughed so long and so loudly , that he disconcerted Mr. Watkins Tottle , and frightened the horse . 
'There's Fanny and your intended walking about on the lawn , said Gabriel , as they approached the house . 
'Mind your eye , Tottle . 
'Never fear , replied Watkins , resolutely , as he made his way to the spot where the ladies were walking . 
'Here's Mr. Tottle , my dear , said Mrs. Parsons , addressing Miss Lillerton . 
'Did you see how glad she was to see you ? whispered Parsons to his friend . 
'Why , I really thought she looked as if she would rather have seen somebody else , replied Tottle . 
'Pooh , nonsense ! whispered Parsons again 'it's always the way with the women , young or old . 
They never show how delighted they are to see those whose presence makes their hearts beat . 
It's the way with the whole sex , and no man should have lived to your time of life without knowing it . 
Fanny confessed it to me , when we were first married , over and over again see what it is to have a wife . 
'Certainly , whispered Tottle , whose courage was vanishing fast . 
'Well , now , you'd better begin to pave the way , said Parsons , who , having invested some money in the speculation , assumed the office of director . 
'Yes , yes , I will presently , replied Tottle , greatly flurried . 
'Say something to her , man , urged Parsons again . 
'Confound it ! pay her a compliment , can't you ? 'No ! not till after dinner , replied the bashful Tottle , anxious to postpone the evil moment . 
'We were talking of the BUSINESS , my dear , which detained us this morning , replied Parsons , looking significantly at Tottle . 
'I think it has passed very slowly , mildly suggested Tottle . 
'Indeed ! said Miss Lillerton , with an air of majestic surprise . 
'I can only impute it to my unavoidable absence from your society , madam , said Watkins , 'and that of Mrs. Parsons . 
During this short dialogue , the ladies had been leading the way to the house . 
'What the deuce did you stick Fanny into that last compliment for ? inquired Parsons , as they followed together 'it quite spoilt the effect . 
'Dear me ! ejaculated the lady , 'I never heard of such a thing . 
'Take off the covers , Martha , said Mrs. Parsons , directing the shifting of the scenery with great anxiety . 
The order was obeyed , and a pair of boiled fowls , with tongue and et ceteras , were displayed at the top , and a fillet of veal at the bottom . 
'Miss Lillerton , my dear , said Mrs. Parsons , 'shall I assist you ? 'Thank you , no I think I'll trouble Mr. Tottle . 
Watkins started trembled helped the rabbit and broke a tumbler . 
The countenance of the lady of the house , which had been all smiles previously , underwent an awful change . 
'Extremely sorry , stammered Watkins , assisting himself to currie and parsley and butter , in the extremity of his confusion . 
'I presume , said Miss Lillerton , 'that Mr. Tottle is aware of the interest which bachelors usually pay in such cases a dozen glasses for one is the lowest penalty . 
Mr. Gabriel Parsons gave his friend an admonitory tread on the toe . 
Here was a clear hint that the sooner he ceased to be a bachelor and emancipated himself from such penalties , the better . 
'Miss Lillerton , said Gabriel , 'may I have the pleasure ? 'I shall be most happy . 
'Tottle , will you assist Miss Lillerton , and pass the decanter . 
'Tottle , were you ever in Suffolk ? inquired the master of the house , who was burning to tell one of his seven stock stories . 
'No , responded Watkins , adding , by way of a saving clause , 'but I've been in Devonshire . 
'Ah ! replied Gabriel , 'it was in Suffolk that a rather singular circumstance happened to me many years ago . 
Did you ever happen to hear me mention it ? Mr. Watkins Tottle HAD happened to hear his friend mention it some four hundred times . 
Of course he expressed great curiosity , and evinced the utmost impatience to hear the story again . 
We will attempt to give them an idea of our meaning . 
'When I was in Suffolk said Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'Take off the fowls first , Martha , said Mrs. Parsons . 
'I beg your pardon , my dear . 
I had to stop at the principal places in my way , and therefore , for the sake of convenience , I travelled in a gig . 
'Fanny , said Parsons impatiently , 'I wish you'd defer these domestic reproofs to some more suitable time . 
Really , my dear , these constant interruptions are very annoying . 
'My dear , I didn't interrupt you , said Mrs. Parsons . 
'But , my dear , you DID interrupt me , remonstrated Mr. Parsons . 
, I assure you , Tottle , I became somehow impressed with a sense of the loneliness of my situation 'Pie to your master , interrupted Mrs. Parsons , again directing the servant . 
'Now , pray , my dear , remonstrated Parsons once more , very pettishly . 
Mrs. P. turned up her hands and eyebrows , and appealed in dumb show to Miss Lillerton . 
'As I turned a corner of the road , resumed Gabriel , 'the horse stopped short , and reared tremendously . 
I thought he was dead but no , he was alive , and there appeared to be nothing the matter with him . 
He jumped up , and putting his hand to his chest , and fixing upon me the most earnest gaze you can imagine , exclaimed 'Pudding here , said Mrs. Parsons . 
'Oh ! it's no use , exclaimed the host , now rendered desperate . 
'Here , Tottle a glass of wine . 
It's useless to attempt relating anything when Mrs. Parsons is present . 
This attack was received in the usual way . 
Really what she had to endure sometimes , was more than any one who saw her in every day life could by possibility suppose . 
The cloth was removed the ladies soon afterwards retired , and Miss Lillerton played the piano in the drawing room overhead , very loudly , for the edification of the visitor . 
'Well well I only made a suggestion , said poor Watkins Tottle , with a deep sigh . 
'God bless me ! exclaimed Parsons , starting up with well feigned surprise , 'I've forgotten those confounded letters . 
Tottle , I know you'll excuse me . 
If Tottle had been a free agent , he would have allowed no one to leave the room on any pretence , except himself . 
As it was , however , he was obliged to look cheerful when Parsons quitted the apartment . 
He had scarcely left , when Martha put her head into the room , with 'Please , ma'am , you're wanted . 
Mrs. Parsons left the room , shut the door carefully after her , and Mr. Watkins Tottle was left alone with Miss Lillerton . 
For the first five minutes there was a dead silence . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle was thinking how he should begin , and Miss Lillerton appeared to be thinking of nothing . 
The fire was burning low Mr. Watkins Tottle stirred it , and put some coals on . 
'Hem ! coughed Miss Lillerton Mr. Watkins Tottle thought the fair creature had spoken . 
'I beg your pardon , said he . 
'Eh ? 'I thought you spoke . 
'Oh ! 'There are some books on the sofa , Mr. Tottle , if you would like to look at them , said Miss Lillerton , after the lapse of another five minutes . 
'To me ! said Miss Lillerton , letting the silk drop from her hands , and sliding her chair back a few paces . 
'Speak to me ! 'To you , madam and on the subject of the state of your affections . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle thought that if the lady knew all , she might possibly alter her opinion on this last point . 
He raised the tip of her middle finger ceremoniously to his lips , and got off his knees , as gracefully as he could . 
'My information was correct ? he tremulously inquired , when he was once more on his feet . 
Watkins elevated his hands , and looked up to the ornament in the centre of the ceiling , which had been made for a lamp , by way of expressing his rapture . 
'Our situation , Mr. Tottle , resumed the lady , glancing at him through one of the eyelet holes , 'is a most peculiar and delicate one . 
'It is , said Mr. Tottle . 
'Our acquaintance has been of SO short duration , said Miss Lillerton . 
'Only a week , assented Watkins Tottle . 
'Oh ! more than that , exclaimed the lady , in a tone of surprise . 
'More than a month more than two months ! said Miss Lillerton . 
'Rather odd , this , thought Watkins . 
'Oh ! he said , recollecting Parsons's assurance that she had known him from report , 'I understand . 
But , my dear madam , pray , consider . 
The longer this acquaintance has existed , the less reason is there for delay now . 
'Then allow ME to name it , said Tottle eagerly . 
'I should like to fix it myself , replied Miss Lillerton , bashfully , 'but I cannot do so without at once resorting to a third party . 
'A third party ! thought Watkins Tottle 'who the deuce is that to be , I wonder ! 'Mr . 
Tottle , continued Miss Lillerton , 'you have made me a most disinterested and kind offer that offer I accept . 
Will you at once be the bearer of a note from me to to Mr. Timson ? 'Mr . 
'After what has passed between us , responded Miss Lillerton , still averting her head , 'you must understand whom I mean Mr. Timson , the the clergyman . 
Timson , the clergyman ! ejaculated Watkins Tottle , in a state of inexpressible beatitude , and positive wonder at his own success . 
'May I come in ? said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , peeping in at the door . 
'You may , replied Watkins . 
'Well , have you done it ? anxiously inquired Gabriel . 
'Have I done it ! said Watkins Tottle . 
'Hush I'm going to the clergyman . 
'How well you have managed it ! 'Where does Timson live ? inquired Watkins . 
'At his uncle's , replied Gabriel , 'just round the lane . 
He's waiting for a living , and has been assisting his uncle here for the last two or three months . 
'Miss Lillerton's compliments , said Martha , as she delivered it into Tottle's hands , and vanished . 
'Do you observe the delicacy ? said Tottle , appealing to Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'Come , said Watkins , when the explosion of mirth , consequent on this practical jest , had subsided , 'we'll be off at once let's lose no time . 
'Capital ! echoed Gabriel Parsons and in five minutes they were at the garden gate of the villa tenanted by the uncle of Mr. Timson . 
'Is Mr. Charles Timson at home ? inquired Mr. Watkins Tottle of Mr. Charles Timson's uncle's man . 
Charles IS at home , replied the man , stammering 'but he desired me to say he couldn't be interrupted , sir , by any of the parishioners . 
'I am not a parishioner , replied Watkins . 
'Is Mr. Charles writing a sermon , Tom ? inquired Parsons , thrusting himself forward . 
'No , Mr. Parsons , sir he's not exactly writing a sermon , but he is practising the violoncello in his own bedroom , and gave strict orders not to be disturbed . 
'Say I'm here , replied Gabriel , leading the way across the garden 'Mr . 
Parsons and Mr. Tottle , on private and particular business . 
They were shown into the parlour , and the servant departed to deliver his message . 
The distant groaning of the violoncello ceased footsteps were heard on the stairs and Mr. Timson presented himself , and shook hands with Parsons with the utmost cordiality . 
I never shall forget her first comin' here he wrote to her on the Thursday to come I know he did , 'cos I took the letter . 
So then he turns found to me , and says , Ikey , put two mould candles in the back parlour , and charge 'em to this gen'lm'n's account , vich I did . 
Oh , Harry ! she says , that it should have come to this and all for my sake , says she , putting her hand upon his shoulder . 
Watkins advanced with a wooden expression of passive endurance , and accepted the hand which Mr. Gabriel Parsons held out . 
'I want to speak to you , said Gabriel , with a look strongly expressive of his dislike of the company . 
'This way , replied the imprisoned one , leading the way to the front drawing room , where rich debtors did the luxurious at the rate of a couple of guineas a day . 
'Yes and here you're likely to be , said Gabriel , coolly , as he rattled the money in his unmentionable pockets , and looked out of the window . 
'What's the amount with the costs ? inquired Parsons , after an awkward pause . 
'Have you any money ? 'Nine and sixpence halfpenny . 
At length he stopped short , and said , 'Tottle , you owe me fifty pounds . 
'And from all I see , I infer that you are likely to owe it to me . 
'Though you have every disposition to pay me if you could ? 'Certainly . 
'Then , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , 'listen here's my proposition . 
You know my way of old . 
Accept it yes or no I will or I won't . 
if you'll give me your note of hand to pay me one hundred and fifty pounds within six months after you are married to Miss Lillerton . 
'My dear 'Stop a minute on one condition and that is , that you propose to Miss Lillerton at once . 
'At once ! My dear Parsons , consider . 
'It's for you to consider , not me . 
She knows you well from reputation , though she did not know you personally until lately . 
Notwithstanding all her maiden modesty , I think she'd be devilish glad to get married out of hand with as little delay as possible . 
My wife has sounded her on the subject , and she has confessed . 
'What what ? eagerly interrupted the enamoured Watkins . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle rose hastily from his seat , and rang the bell . 
'What's that for ? inquired Parsons . 
'I want to send the man for the bill stamp , replied Mr. Watkins Tottle . 
'Then you've made up your mind ? 'I have , and they shook hands most cordially . 
'Now , said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , as they drove to Norwood together 'you shall have an opportunity to make the disclosure to night , and mind you speak out , Tottle . 
'I will I will ! replied Watkins , valorously . 
'How I should like to see you together , ejaculated Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'What fun ! and he laughed so long and so loudly , that he disconcerted Mr. Watkins Tottle , and frightened the horse . 
'There's Fanny and your intended walking about on the lawn , said Gabriel , as they approached the house . 
'Mind your eye , Tottle . 
'Never fear , replied Watkins , resolutely , as he made his way to the spot where the ladies were walking . 
'Here's Mr. Tottle , my dear , said Mrs. Parsons , addressing Miss Lillerton . 
'Did you see how glad she was to see you ? whispered Parsons to his friend . 
'Why , I really thought she looked as if she would rather have seen somebody else , replied Tottle . 
'Pooh , nonsense ! whispered Parsons again 'it's always the way with the women , young or old . 
They never show how delighted they are to see those whose presence makes their hearts beat . 
It's the way with the whole sex , and no man should have lived to your time of life without knowing it . 
Fanny confessed it to me , when we were first married , over and over again see what it is to have a wife . 
'Certainly , whispered Tottle , whose courage was vanishing fast . 
'Well , now , you'd better begin to pave the way , said Parsons , who , having invested some money in the speculation , assumed the office of director . 
'Yes , yes , I will presently , replied Tottle , greatly flurried . 
'Say something to her , man , urged Parsons again . 
'Confound it ! pay her a compliment , can't you ? 'No ! not till after dinner , replied the bashful Tottle , anxious to postpone the evil moment . 
'We were talking of the BUSINESS , my dear , which detained us this morning , replied Parsons , looking significantly at Tottle . 
'I think it has passed very slowly , mildly suggested Tottle . 
'Indeed ! said Miss Lillerton , with an air of majestic surprise . 
'I can only impute it to my unavoidable absence from your society , madam , said Watkins , 'and that of Mrs. Parsons . 
During this short dialogue , the ladies had been leading the way to the house . 
'What the deuce did you stick Fanny into that last compliment for ? inquired Parsons , as they followed together 'it quite spoilt the effect . 
'Dear me ! ejaculated the lady , 'I never heard of such a thing . 
'Take off the covers , Martha , said Mrs. Parsons , directing the shifting of the scenery with great anxiety . 
The order was obeyed , and a pair of boiled fowls , with tongue and et ceteras , were displayed at the top , and a fillet of veal at the bottom . 
'Miss Lillerton , my dear , said Mrs. Parsons , 'shall I assist you ? 'Thank you , no I think I'll trouble Mr. Tottle . 
Watkins started trembled helped the rabbit and broke a tumbler . 
The countenance of the lady of the house , which had been all smiles previously , underwent an awful change . 
'Extremely sorry , stammered Watkins , assisting himself to currie and parsley and butter , in the extremity of his confusion . 
'I presume , said Miss Lillerton , 'that Mr. Tottle is aware of the interest which bachelors usually pay in such cases a dozen glasses for one is the lowest penalty . 
Mr. Gabriel Parsons gave his friend an admonitory tread on the toe . 
Here was a clear hint that the sooner he ceased to be a bachelor and 'emancipated himself from such penalties , the better . 
'Miss Lillerton , said Gabriel , 'may I have the pleasure ? 'I shall be most happy . 
'Tottle , will you assist Miss Lillerton , and pass the decanter . 
'Tottle , were you ever in Suffolk ? inquired the master of the house , who was burning to tell one of his seven stock stories . 
'No , responded Watkins , adding , by way of a saving clause , 'but I've been in Devonshire . 
'Ah ! replied Gabriel , 'it was in Suffolk that a rather singular circumstance happened to me many years ago . 
Did you ever happen to hear me mention it ? Mr. Watkins Tottle HAD happened to hear his friend mention it some four hundred times . 
Of course he expressed great curiosity , and evinced the utmost impatience to hear the story again . 
We will attempt to give them an idea of our meaning . 
'When I was in Suffolk said Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'Take off the fowls first , Martha , said Mrs. Parsons . 
'I beg your pardon , my dear . 
I had to stop at the principal places in my way , and therefore , for the sake of convenience , I travelled in a gig . 
'Fanny , said Parsons impatiently , 'I wish you'd defer these domestic reproofs to some more suitable time . 
Really , my dear , these constant interruptions are very annoying . 
'My dear , I didn't interrupt you , said Mrs. Parsons . 
'But , my dear , you did interrupt me , remonstrated Mr. Parsons . 
, I assure you , Tottle , I became somehow impressed with a sense of the loneliness of my situation 'Pie to your master , interrupted Mrs. Parsons , again directing the servant . 
'Now , pray , my dear , remonstrated Parsons once more , very pettishly . 
Mrs. P. turned up her hands and eyebrows , and appealed in dumb show to Miss Lillerton . 
'As I turned a corner of the road , resumed Gabriel , 'the horse stopped short , and reared tremendously . 
I thought he was dead but no , he was alive , and there appeared to be nothing the matter with him . 
He jumped up , and potting his hand to his chest , and fixing upon me the most earnest gaze you can imagine , exclaimed 'Pudding here , said Mrs. Parsons . 
'Oh ! it's no use , exclaimed the host , now rendered desperate . 
'Here , Tottle a glass of wine . 
It's useless to attempt relating anything when Mrs. Parsons is present . 
This attack was received in the usual way . 
Really what she had to endure sometimes , was more than any one who saw her in every day life could by possibility suppose . 
The cloth was removed the ladies soon afterwards retired , and Miss Lillerton played the piano in the drawing room overhead , very loudly , for the edification of the visitor . 
'Well well I only made a suggestion , said poor Watkins Tottle , with a deep sigh . 
'God bless me ! exclaimed Parsons , starting up with well feigned surprise , 'I've forgotten those confounded letters . 
Tottle , I know you'll excuse me . 
If Tottle had been a free agent , he would have allowed no one to leave the room on any pretence , except himself . 
As it was , however , he was obliged to look cheerful when Parsons quitted the apartment . 
He had scarcely left , when Martha put her head into the room , with 'Please , ma'am , you're wanted . 
Mrs. Parsons left the room , shut the door carefully after her , and Mr. Watkins Tottle was left alone with Miss Lillerton . 
For the first five minutes there was a dead silence . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle was thinking how he should begin , and Miss Lillerton appeared to be thinking of nothing . 
The fire was burning low Mr. Watkins Tottle stirred it , and put some coals on . 
'Hem ! coughed Miss Lillerton Mr. Watkins Tottle thought the fair creature had spoken . 
'I beg your pardon , said he . 
'Eh ? 'I thought you spoke . 
'Oh ! 'There are some books on the sofa , Mr. Tottle , if you would like to look at them , said Miss Lillerton , after the lapse of another five minutes . 
'To me ! said Miss Lillerton , letting the silk drop from her hands , and sliding her chair back a few paces . 
'Speak to me ! 'To you , madam and on the subject of the state of your affections . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle thought that if the lady knew all , she might possibly alter her opinion on this last point . 
He raised the tip of her middle finger ceremoniously to his lips , and got off his knees , as gracefully as he could . 
'My information was correct ? he tremulously inquired , when he was once more on his feet . 
Watkins elevated his hands , and looked up to the ornament in the centre of the ceiling , which had been made for a lamp , by way of expressing his rapture . 
'Our situation , Mr. Tottle , resumed the lady , glancing at him through one of the eyelet holes , 'is a most peculiar . 
'It is , said Mr. Tottle . 
'Our acquaintance has been of SO short duration , said Miss Lillerton . 
'Only a week , assented Watkins Tottle . 
'Oh ! more than that , exclaimed the lady , in a tone of surprise . 
'More than a month more than two months ! said Miss Lillerton . 
'Rather odd , this , thought Watkins . 
'Oh ! he said , recollecting Parsons's assurance that she had known him from report , 'I understand . 
But , my dear madam , pray , consider . 
The longer this acquaintance has existed , the less reason is I there for delay now . 
'Then allow ME to name it , said Tottle eagerly . 
'I should like to fix it myself , replied Miss Lillerton , bashfully , but I cannot do so without at once resorting to a third party . 
'A third party ! thought Watkins Tottle 'who the deuce is that to be , I wonder ! 'Mr . 
Tottle , continued Miss Lillerton , 'you have made me a most disinterested and kind offer that offer I accept . 
Will you at once be the bearer of a note from me to to Mr. Timson ? 'Mr . 
'After what has passed between us , responded Miss Lillerton , still averting her head , 'you must understand whom I mean Mr. Timson , the the clergyman . 
Timson , the clergyman ! ejaculated Watkins Tottle , in a state of inexpressible beatitude , and positive wonder at his own success . 
'May I come in ? said Mr. Gabriel Parsons , peeping in at the door . 
'You may , replied Watkins . 
'Well , have you done it ? anxiously inquired Gabriel . 
'Have I done it ! said Watkins Tottle . 
'Hush I'm going to the clergyman . 
'How well you have managed it ! 'Where does Timson live ? inquired Watkins . 
'At his uncle's , replied Gabriel , 'just round the lane . 
He's waiting for a living , and has been assisting his uncle here for the last two or three months . 
'Miss Lillerton's compliments , said Martha , as she delivered it into Tottle's hands , and vanished . 
'Do you observe the delicacy ? said Tottle , appealing to Mr. Gabriel Parsons . 
'Come , said Watkins , when the explosion of mirth , consequent on this practical jest , had subsided , 'we'll be off at once let's lose no time . 
'Capital ! echoed Gabriel Parsons and in five minutes they were at the garden gate of the villa tenanted by the uncle of Mr. Timson . 
'Is Mr. Charles Timson at home ? inquired Mr. Watkins Tottle of Mr. Charles Timson's uncle's man . 
Charles IS at home , replied the man , stammering 'but he desired me to say he couldn't be interrupted , sir , by any of the parishioners . 
'I am not a parishioner , replied Watkins . 
'Is Mr. Charles writing a sermon , Tom ? inquired Parsons , thrusting himself forward . 
'No , Mr. Parsons , sir he's not exactly writing a sermon , but he is practising the violoncello in his own bedroom , and gave strict orders not to be disturbed . 
'Say I'm here , replied Gabriel , leading the way across the garden 'Mr . 
Parsons and Mr. Tottle , on private and particular business . 
They were shown into the parlour , and the servant departed to deliver his message . 
The distant groaning of the violoncello ceased footsteps were heard on the stairs and Mr. Timson presented himself , and shook hands with Parsons with the utmost cordiality . 
'How do you do , sir ? said Watkins Tottle , with great solemnity . 
'I beg to deliver this note to you , said Watkins Tottle , producing the cocked hat . 
'From Miss Lillerton ! said Timson , suddenly changing colour . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle sat down and while Timson perused the note , fixed his eyes on an oyster sauce coloured portrait of the Archbishop of Canterbury , which hung over the fireplace . 
Mr. Timson rose from his seat when he had concluded the note , and looked dubiously at Parsons . 
'He thinks I recommended him , thought Tottle . 
'Confound these fellows ! they never think of anything but their fees . 
'I deeply regret having misunderstood your intentions , my dear sir , continued Timson . 
'Disinterested and manly , indeed ! There are very few men who would have acted as you have done . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle could not help thinking that this last remark was anything but complimentary . 
He therefore inquired , rather hastily , 'When is it to be ? 'On Thursday , replied Timson , 'on Thursday morning at half past eight . 
'Uncommonly early , observed Watkins Tottle , with an air of triumphant self denial . 
'I shall hardly be able to get down here by that hour . 
'What ! ejaculated Watkins Tottle , at the same moment . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle staggered against the wall , and fixed his eyes on Timson with appalling perseverance . 
Her singular scruples and strange feeling on some points have hitherto prevented my bringing the engagement to that termination which I so anxiously desire . 
'Good night , Timson , said Parsons , hurrying off , and carrying the bewildered Tottle with him . 
'Won't you stay and have something ? said Timson . 
'No , thank ye , replied Parsons 'I've had quite enough and away he went , followed by Watkins Tottle in a state of stupefaction . 
'I suppose you'll say this is Fanny's fault , won't you ? inquired Gabriel . 
'I don't know anything about it , replied the bewildered Tottle . 
'Well , said Parsons , turning on his heel to go home , 'the next time you make an offer , you had better speak plainly , and don't throw a chance away . 
And the next time you're locked up in a spunging house , just wait there till I come and take you out , there's a good fellow . 
How , or at what hour , Mr. Watkins Tottle returned to Cecil street is unknown . 
His boots were seen outside his bedroom door next morning but we have the authority of his landlady for stating that he neither emerged therefrom nor accepted sustenance for four and twenty hours . 
A few weeks after the last named occurrence , the body of a gentleman unknown , was found in the Regent's canal . 
Mr. Watkins Tottle absented himself from his lodgings shortly before . 
A bill , which has not been taken up , was presented next morning and a bill , which has not been taken down , was soon afterwards affixed in his parlour window . 
He was never happy but when he was miserable and always miserable when he had the best reason to be happy . 
The only real comfort of his existence was to make everybody about him wretched then he might be truly said to enjoy life . 
He was familiar with the face of every tombstone , and the burial service seemed to excite his strongest sympathy . 
His friends said he was surly he insisted he was nervous they thought him a lucky dog , but he protested that he was 'the most unfortunate man in the world . 
Cold as he was , and wretched as he declared himself to be , he was not wholly unsusceptible of attachments . 
He revered the memory of Hoyle , as he was himself an admirable and imperturbable whist player , and he chuckled with delight at a fretful and impatient adversary . 
He adored King Herod for his massacre of the innocents and if he hated one thing more than another , it was a child . 
Mr. Charles Kitterbell was a small , sharp , spare man , with a very large head , and a broad , good humoured countenance . 
'No , but , uncle , 'pon my life you must you must promise to be godfather , said Mr. Kitterbell , as he sat in conversation with his respected relative one morning . 
'I cannot , indeed I cannot , returned Dumps . 
'Well , but why not ? Jemima will think it very unkind . 
'As to the trouble , rejoined the most unhappy man in existence , 'I don't mind that but my nerves are in that state I cannot go through the ceremony . 
You know I don't like going out . 
For God's sake , Charles , don't fidget with that stool so you'll drive me mad . 
'But come , don't refuse . 
If it's a boy , you know , we must have two godfathers . 
'Not born yet ! echoed Dumps , with a gleam of hope lighting up his lugubrious visage . 
'Oh , well , it MAY be a girl , and then you won't want me or if it is a boy , it MAY die before it is christened . 
'I hope not , said the father that expected to be , looking very grave . 
'I hope not , acquiesced Dumps , evidently pleased with the subject . 
He was beginning to get happy . 
'Lord , uncle ! ejaculated little Kitterbell , gasping for breath . 
'Yes my landlady was confined let me see last Tuesday an uncommonly fine boy . 
On the Thursday night the nurse was sitting with him upon her knee before the fire , and he was as well as possible . 
Suddenly he became black in the face , and alarmingly spasmodic . 
The medical man was instantly sent for , and every remedy was tried , but 'How frightful ! interrupted the horror stricken Kitterbell . 
'The child died , of course . 
However , your child MAY not die and if it should be a boy , and should LIVE to be christened , why I suppose I must be one of the sponsors . 
Dumps was evidently good natured on the faith of his anticipations . 
'Thank you , uncle , said his agitated nephew , grasping his hand as warmly as if he had done him some essential service . 
'Perhaps I had better not tell Mrs. K. what you have mentioned . 
A day or two afterwards , as Dumps was perusing a morning paper at the chop house which he regularly frequented , the following paragraph met his eyes 'BIRTHS . 
On Saturday , the th inst . 
, in Great Russell street , the lady of Charles Kitterbell , Esq . 
'It IS a boy ! he exclaimed , dashing down the paper , to the astonishment of the waiters . 
'It IS a boy ! But he speedily regained his composure as his eye rested on a paragraph quoting the number of infant deaths from the bills of mortality . 
DEAR UNCLE , You will be delighted to hear that my dear Jemima has left her room , and that your future godson is getting on capitally . 
He was very thin at first , but he is getting much larger , and nurse says he is filling out every day . 
We think he will be a sharp child and nurse says she's sure he will , because he never goes to sleep . 
He has been vaccinated , but in consequence of the operation being rather awkwardly performed , some small particles of glass were introduced into the arm with the matter . 
Perhaps this may in some degree account for his being rather fractious at least , so nurse says . 
We propose to have him christened at twelve o'clock on Friday , at Saint George's church , in Hart street , by the name of Frederick Charles William . 
Pray don't be later than a quarter before twelve . 
We shall have a very few friends in the evening , when of course we shall see you . 
I am sorry to say that the dear boy appears rather restless and uneasy to day the cause , I fear , is fever . 
'Believe me , dear Uncle , 'Yours affectionately , 'CHARLES KITTERBELL . 
S. I open this note to say that we have just discovered the cause of little Frederick's restlessness . 
It is not fever , as I apprehended , but a small pin , which nurse accidentally stuck in his leg yesterday evening . 
We have taken it out , and he appears more composed , though he still sobs a good deal . 
It is almost unnecessary to say that the perusal of the above interesting statement was no great relief to the mind of the hypochondriacal Dumps . 
C. W. K. , with the customary untrained grape vine looking flourishes , and a large full stop , to be engraved forthwith . 
Dumps beheld all this with an eye of supreme contempt his triumph was at hand . 
'I knew how it would be , said Dumps , as he turned round opposite the Mansion house at half past eleven o'clock on the Friday morning . 
'I knew how it would be . 
I am concerned , and that's enough and certainly the appearance of the day was sufficient to depress the spirits of a much more buoyant hearted individual than himself . 
It had rained , without a moment's cessation , since eight o'clock everybody that passed up Cheapside , and down Cheapside , looked wet , cold , and dirty . 
All sorts of forgotten and long concealed umbrellas had been put into requisition . 
Dumps paused he could not think of walking , being rather smart for the christening . 
If he took a cab he was sure to be spilt , and a hackney coach was too expensive for his economical ideas . 
'Now , sir ! cried the young gentleman who officiated as 'cad' to the 'Lads of the Village , which was the name of the machine just noticed . 
'This vay , sir ! shouted the driver of the 'Hark away , pulling up his vehicle immediately across the door of the opposition 'This vay , sir he's full . 
'For Heaven's sake , where am I to sit ? inquired the miserable man of an old gentleman , into whose stomach he had just fallen for the fourth time . 
'Anywhere but on my CHEST , sir , replied the old gentleman in a surly tone . 
'Perhaps the BOX would suit the gentleman better , suggested a very damp lawyer's clerk , in a pink shirt , and a smirking countenance . 
'Don't bang the door so , said Dumps to the conductor , as he shut it after letting out four of the passengers I am very nervous it destroys me . 
'Did any gen'lm'n say anythink ? replied the cad , thrusting in his head , and trying to look as if he didn't understand the request . 
'I told you not to bang the door so ! repeated Dumps , with an expression of countenance like the knave of clubs , in convulsions . 
'I want to be set down ! said Dumps in a faint voice , overcome by his previous efforts . 
'I think these cads want to be SET DOWN , returned the attorney's clerk , chuckling at his sally . 
'Hollo ! cried Dumps again . 
'Hollo ! echoed the passengers . 
'Hold hard ! said the conductor 'I'm blowed if we ha'n't forgot the gen'lm'n as vas to be set down at Doory lane . 
Now , sir , make haste , if you please , he added , opening the door , and assisting Dumps out with as much coolness as if it was 'all right . 
Dumps's indignation was for once getting the better of his cynical equanimity . 
'Drury lane ! he gasped , with the voice of a boy in a cold bath for the first time . 
'Doory lane , sir ? yes , sir , third turning on the right hand side , sir . 
Dumps's passion was paramount he clutched his umbrella , and was striding off with the firm determination of not paying the fare . 
'Hollo ! said that respectable person , standing up on the box , and leaning with one hand on the roof of the omnibus . 
Road for nothing , and set him down at Doory lane when we comes back . 
He can't reject that , anyhow . 
The argument was irresistible Dumps paid the disputed sixpence , and in a quarter of an hour was on the staircase of No. , Great Russell street . 
Everything indicated that preparations were making for the reception of 'a few friends' in the evening . 
Two dozen extra tumblers , and four ditto wine glasses looking anything but transparent , with little bits of straw in them on the slab in the passage , just arrived . 
'Ah , uncle ! said Mr. Kitterbell , 'how d'ye do ? Allow me Jemima , my dear my uncle . 
'I'm sure , said Mrs. Kitterbell , with a languid smile , and a slight cough . 
'Jane , tell nurse to bring down baby , said Mrs. Kitterbell , addressing the servant . 
Out went the servant , and in came the nurse , with a remarkably small parcel in her arms , packed up in a blue mantle trimmed with white fur . 
'Good God , how small he is ! cried the amiable uncle , starting back with well feigned surprise 'REMARKABLY small indeed . 
'Do you think so ? inquired poor little Kitterbell , rather alarmed . 
'Well , but who is he like ? inquired little Kitterbell . 
Dumps looked at the little pink heap before him , and only thought at the moment of the best mode of mortifying the youthful parents . 
'I really don't know WHO he's like , he answered , very well knowing the reply expected of him . 
'Don't you think he's like ME ? inquired his nephew with a knowing air . 
'Oh , DECIDEDLY not ! returned Dumps , with an emphasis not to be misunderstood . 
'Like Jemima ? asked Kitterbell , faintly . 
'Oh , dear no not in the least . 
Pa and ma looked almost as miserable as their amiable uncle . 
'Well ! said the disappointed little father , 'you'll be better able to tell what he's like by and by . 
You shall see him this evening with his mantle off . 
'Thank you , said Dumps , feeling particularly grateful . 
'Now , my love , said Kitterbell to his wife , 'it's time we were off . 
We're to meet the other godfather and the godmother at the church , uncle , Mr. and Mrs. Wilson from over the way uncommonly nice people . 
My love , are you well wrapped up ? 'Yes , dear . 
'Are you sure you won't have another shawl ? inquired the anxious husband . 
passed off without anything particular occurring . 
The clergyman had to dine some distance from town , and had two churchings , three christenings , and a funeral to perform in something less than an hour . 
Evening came and so did Dumps's pumps , black silk stockings , and white cravat which he had ordered to be forwarded , per boy , from Pentonville . 
The shock so disarranged Dumps's nerves , as well as his dress , that he could hardly stand . 
The gentleman took his arm , and in the kindest manner walked with him as far as Furnival's Inn . 
Dumps , for about the first time in his life , felt grateful and polite and he and the gentlemanly looking young man parted with mutual expressions of good will . 
'There are at least some well disposed men in the world , ruminated the misanthropical Dumps , as he proceeded towards his destination . 
'It's a large party , sighed the unhappy godfather , wiping the perspiration from his forehead , and leaning against the area railings . 
'How many people are there up stairs ? 'Oh , not above thirty five . 
We've had the carpet taken up in the back drawing room , and the piano and the card tables are in the front . 
Jemima thought we'd better have a regular sit down supper in the front parlour , because of the speechifying , and all that . 
'Your card case ? snuff box ? the key of your lodgings ? continued Kitterbell , pouring question on question with the rapidity of lightning . 
'No ! no ! ejaculated Dumps , still diving eagerly into his empty pockets . 
'Not not the MUG you spoke of this morning ? 'Yes , the MUG ! replied Dumps , sinking into a chair . 
'How COULD you have done it ? inquired Kitterbell . 
I see it all it was the gentlemanly looking young man ! 'Mr . 
Dumps ! shouted the greengrocer in a stentorian voice , as he ushered the somewhat recovered godfather into the drawing room half an hour after the above declaration . 
Dumps ! everybody looked at the door , and in came Dumps , feeling about as much out of place as a salmon might be supposed to be on a gravel walk . 
Such a splendid fellow ! I'm sure you'll like him this way , Dumps followed as tractably as a tame bear . 
He could imitate the French horn to admiration , sang comic songs most inimitably , and had the most insinuating way of saying impertinent nothings to his doting female admirers . 
He had acquired , somehow or other , the reputation of being a great wit , and , accordingly , whenever he opened his mouth , everybody who knew him laughed very heartily . 
The introduction took place in due form . 
Mr. Danton bowed , and twirled a lady's handkerchief , which he held in his hand , in a most comic way . 
'Very warm , said Dumps , feeling it necessary to say something . 
It was warmer yesterday , returned the brilliant Mr. Danton . 
'I have great pleasure in congratulating you on your first appearance in the character of a father , sir , he continued , addressing Dumps 'godfather , I mean . 
The young ladies were convulsed , and the gentlemen in ecstasies . 
A general hum of admiration interrupted the conversation , and announced the entrance of nurse with the baby . 
An universal rush of the young ladies immediately took place . 
'Oh , you dear ! said one . 
'How sweet ! cried another , in a low tone of the most enthusiastic admiration . 
'Heavenly ! added a third . 
'Oh ! what dear little arms ! said a fourth , holding up an arm and fist about the size and shape of the leg of a fowl cleanly picked . 
'Oh ! DO let me take it , nurse , cried another young lady . 
'The love ! 'Can it open its eyes , nurse ? inquired another , affecting the utmost innocence . 
Suffice it to say , that the single ladies unanimously voted him an angel , and that the married ones , NEM . 
, agreed that he was decidedly the finest baby they had ever beheld except their own . 
The quadrilles were resumed with great spirit . 
'The young men , as Mrs. Kitterbell said , 'made themselves very agreeable the girls did not lose their opportunity and the evening promised to go off excellently . 
There was only one drawback the musicians did not play with quite as much spirit as could have been wished . 
Then there were fowls , and tongue , and trifle , and sweets , and lobster salad , and potted beef and everything . 
'Hush ! hush ! said Mr. Kitterbell , rising and looking very important . 
, take care of Mrs. Maxwell , and your mamma , and the rest of the married ladies the gentlemen will persuade the young ladies to fill their glasses , I am sure . 
A dead silence ensued , and the glasses were filled everybody looked serious . 
'Order ! order ! said little Kitterbell , endeavouring to suppress his laughter . 
'Order ! said the gentlemen . 
'Danton , be quiet , said a particular friend on the opposite side of the table . 
venture to rise to propose a toast . 
I need hardly say that it is the health and prosperity of that young gentleman , the particular event of whose early life we are here met to celebrate . 
'That these trials may be long spared them is my most earnest prayer , my most fervent wish . 
that his young and now APPARENTLY healthy form , may not be wasted by lingering disease . 
You , I am sure , will concur with me in wishing that he may live to be a comfort and a blessing to his parents . 
It need hardly be added , that this occurrence quite put a stop to the harmony of the evening . 
Vinegar , hartshorn , and cold water , were now as much in request as negus , rout cakes , and BON BONS had been a short time before . 
Mrs. Kitterbell was immediately conveyed to her apartment , the musicians were silenced , flirting ceased , and the company slowly departed . 
Dumps left the house at the commencement of the bustle , and walked home with a light step , and a cheerful heart . 
His landlady , who slept in the next room , has offered to make oath that she heard him laugh , in his peculiar manner , after he had locked his door . 
The assertion , however , is so improbable , and bears on the face of it such strong evidence of untruth , that it has never obtained credence to this hour . 
He is determined , however , to impose upon him two conditions . 
Some of these men have been impelled , by misfortune and misery , to the vice that has degraded them . 
Such a man as this once stood by the bedside of his dying wife , while his children knelt around , and mingled loud bursts of grief with their innocent prayers . 
An elderly woman , with her face bathed in tears , was supporting the head of the dying woman her daughter on her arm . 
His dress was slovenly and disordered , his face inflamed , his eyes bloodshot and heavy . 
He had been summoned from some wild debauch to the bed of sorrow and death . 
A shaded lamp by the bed side cast a dim light on the figures around , and left the remainder of the room in thick , deep shadow . 
The silence of night prevailed without the house , and the stillness of death was in the chamber . 
But no such ravings were to be heard at the bed side by which the children knelt . 
Their half stifled sobs and moaning alone broke the silence of the lonely chamber . 
They leant over her they called upon her name , softly at first , and then in the loud and piercing tones of desperation . 
But there was no reply . 
They listened for her breath , but no sound came . 
They felt for the palpitation of the heart , but no faint throb responded to the touch . 
That heart was broken , and she was dead ! The husband sunk into a chair by the bed side , and clasped his hands upon his burning forehead . 
He gazed from child to child , but when a weeping eye met his , he quailed beneath its look . 
No word of comfort was whispered in his ear , no look of kindness lighted on his face . 
All shrunk from and avoided him and when at last he staggered from the room , no one sought to follow or console the widower . 
The time had been when many a friend would have crowded round him in his affliction , and many a heartfelt condolence would have met him in his grief . 
Where were they now ? One by one , friends , relations , the commonest acquaintance even , had fallen off from and deserted the drunkard . 
He rushed from the house , and walked swiftly through the streets . 
Remorse , fear , shame , all crowded on his mind . 
Stupefied with drink , and bewildered with the scene he had just witnessed , he re entered the tavern he had quitted shortly before . 
His blood mounted , and his brain whirled round . 
Death ! Every one must die , and why not SHE ? She was too good for him her relations had often told him so . 
Curses on them ! Had they not deserted her , and left her to whine away the time at home ? Well she was dead , and happy perhaps . 
It was better as it was . 
Another glass one more ! Hurrah ! It was a merry life while it lasted and he would make the most of it . 
Time went on the three children who were left to him , grew up , and were children no longer . 
The father remained the same poorer , shabbier , and more dissolute looking , but the same confirmed and irreclaimable drunkard . 
So he went on in the old course , and a merry life he led . 
It was a wet December night the wind blew piercing cold , and the rain poured heavily down . 
, he shuffled onwards as fast as the wind and rain would let him . 
The alley into which he turned , might , for filth and misery , have competed with the darkest corner of this ancient sanctuary in its dirtiest and most lawless time . 
'Is that you , father ? said the girl . 
'Who else should it be ? replied the man gruffly . 
'What are you trembling at ? It's little enough that I've had to drink to day , for there's no drink without money , and no money without work . 
What the devil's the matter with the girl ? 'I am not well , father not at all well , said the girl , bursting into tears . 
'Ah ! replied the man , in the tone of a person who is compelled to admit a very unpleasant fact , to which he would rather remain blind , if he could . 
'You must get better somehow , for we must have money . 
You must go to the parish doctor , and make him give you some medicine . 
They're paid for it , damn 'em . 
'Who ! said the man with a start . 
'Hush , replied the girl , 'William brother William . 
'And what does he want ? said the man , with an effort at composure 'money ? meat ? drink ? He's come to the wrong shop for that , if he does . 
Give me the candle give me the candle , fool I ain't going to hurt him . 
He snatched the candle from her hand , and walked into the room . 
He started up when his father entered . 
'Fasten the door , Mary , said the young man hastily 'Fasten the door . 
You look as if you didn't know me , father . 
It's long enough , since you drove me from home you may well forget me . 
'And what do you want here , now ? said the father , seating himself on a stool , on the other side of the fireplace . 
'What do you want here , now ? 'Shelter , replied the son . 
'I'm in trouble that's enough . 
If I'm caught I shall swing that's certain . 
Caught I shall be , unless I stop here that's AS certain . 
And there's an end of it . 
'You mean to say , you've been robbing , or murdering , then ? said the father . 
'Yes , I do , replied the son . 
'Does it surprise you , father ? He looked steadily in the man's face , but he withdrew his eyes , and bent them on the ground . 
'Where's your brothers ? he said , after a long pause . 
'Where they'll never trouble you , replied his son 'John's gone to America , and Henry's dead . 
'Dead ! said the father , with a shudder , which even he could not express . 
'Dead , replied the young man . 
'He died in my arms shot like a dog , by a gamekeeper . 
He staggered back , I caught him , and his blood trickled down my hands . 
It poured out from his side like water . 
O Will , why was she taken away , and father left ? There's his dying words , father , said the young man 'make the best you can of 'em . 
You struck him across the face , in a drunken fit , the morning we ran away and here's the end of it . 
The girl wept aloud and the father , sinking his head upon his knees , rocked himself to and fro . 
'If I am taken , said the young man , 'I shall be carried back into the country , and hung for that man's murder . 
They cannot trace me here , without your assistance , father . 
For aught I know , you may give me up to justice but unless you do , here I stop , until I can venture to escape abroad . 
For two whole days , all three remained in the wretched room , without stirring out . 
On the third evening , however , the girl was worse than she had been yet , and the few scraps of food they had were gone . 
It was indispensably necessary that somebody should go out and as the girl was too weak and ill , the father went , just at nightfall . 
He got some medicine for the girl , and a trifle in the way of pecuniary assistance . 
On his way back , he earned sixpence by holding a horse and he turned homewards with enough money to supply their most pressing wants for two or three days to come . 
He had to pass the public house . 
He lingered for an instant , walked past it , turned back again , lingered once more , and finally slunk in . 
Two men whom he had not observed , were on the watch . 
They were on the point of giving up their search in despair , when his loitering attracted their attention and when he entered the public house , they followed him . 
'You'll drink with me , master , said one of them , proffering him a glass of liquor . 
'And me too , said the other , replenishing the glass as soon as it was drained of its contents . 
The man thought of his hungry children , and his son's danger . 
But they were nothing to the drunkard . 
He DID drink and his reason left him . 
'The right sort of night for our friends in hiding , Master Warden , whispered the other . 
'Sit down here , said the one who had spoken first , drawing him into a corner . 
'We have been looking arter the young un . 
We came to tell him , it's all right now , but we couldn't find him 'cause we hadn't got the precise direction . 
But that ain't strange , for I don't think he know'd it himself , when he come to London , did he ? 'No , he didn't , replied the father . 
The two men exchanged glances . 
'There's a vessel down at the docks , to sail at midnight , when it's high water , resumed the first speaker , 'and we'll put him on board . 
His passage is taken in another name , and what's better than that , it's paid for . 
It's lucky we met you . 
'Very , said the second . 
'Capital luck , said the first , with a wink to his companion . 
'Great , replied the second , with a slight nod of intelligence . 
'Another glass here quick' said the first speaker . 
And in five minutes more , the father had unconsciously yielded up his own son into the hangman's hands . 
Slowly and heavily the time dragged along , as the brother and sister , in their miserable hiding place , listened in anxious suspense to the slightest sound . 
At length , a heavy footstep was heard upon the stair it approached nearer it reached the landing and the father staggered into the room . 
She had caught sight of the shadow of a man reflected on the floor . 
They both rushed in , and in another instant the young man was a prisoner , and handcuffed . 
'Very quietly done , said one of the men to his companion , 'thanks to the old man . 
Lift up the girl , Tom come , come , it's no use crying , young woman . 
It's all over now , and can't be helped . 
'Listen to me , father , he said , in a tone that made the drunkard's flesh creep . 
Die when you will , or how , I will be with you . 
He inquired of the other lodgers , and of the neighbours but his daughter had not been seen or heard of . 
He rambled through the streets , and scrutinised each wretched face among the crowds that thronged them , with anxious eyes . 
But his search was fruitless , and he returned to his garret when night came on , desolate and weary . 
For many days he occupied himself in the same manner , but no trace of his daughter did he meet with , and no word of her reached his ears . 
At length he gave up the pursuit as hopeless . 
He had long thought of the probability of her leaving him , and endeavouring to gain her bread in quiet , elsewhere . 
She had left him at last to starve alone . 
He ground his teeth , and cursed her ! He begged his bread from door to door . 
Every halfpenny he could wring from the pity or credulity of those to whom he addressed himself , was spent in the old way . 
A year passed over his head the roof of a jail was the only one that had sheltered him for many months . 
He slept under archways , and in brickfields anywhere , where there was some warmth or shelter from the cold and rain . 
But in the last stage of poverty , disease , and houseless want , he was a drunkard still . 
At last , one bitter night , he sunk down on a door step faint and ill . 
The premature decay of vice and profligacy had worn him to the bone . 
His cheeks were hollow and livid his eyes were sunken , and their sight was dim . 
His legs trembled beneath his weight , and a cold shiver ran through every limb . 
And now the long forgotten scenes of a misspent life crowded thick and fast upon him . 
Looks that he had long forgotten were fixed upon him once more voices long since hushed in death sounded in his ears like the music of village bells . 
But it was only for an instant . 
The rain beat heavily upon him and cold and hunger were gnawing at his heart again . 
He rose , and dragged his feeble limbs a few paces further . 
Again that heavy chill struck through his frame , and his blood seemed to stagnate beneath it . 
He coiled himself up in a projecting doorway , and tried to sleep . 
But sleep had fled from his dull and glazed eyes . 
His mind wandered strangely , but he was awake , and conscious . 
Suddenly he started up , in the extremity of terror . 
He had heard his own voice shouting in the night air , he knew not what , or why . 
Hark ! A groan ! another ! His senses were leaving him half formed and incoherent words burst from his lips and his hands sought to tear and lacerate his flesh . 
He was going mad , and he shrieked for help till his voice failed him . 
He raised his head , and looked up the long dismal street . 
He recollected that outcasts like himself , condemned to wander day and night in those dreadful streets , had sometimes gone distracted with their own loneliness . 
In an instant his resolve was taken , his limbs received new life he ran quickly from the spot , and paused not for breath until he reached the river side . 
He crept softly down the steep stone stairs that lead from the commencement of Waterloo Bridge , down to the water's level . 
He crouched into a corner , and held his breath , as the patrol passed . 
Never did prisoner's heart throb with the hope of liberty and life half so eagerly as did that of the wretched man at the prospect of death . 
The tide was in , and the water flowed at his feet . 
The stream stole languidly and sluggishly on . 
He retreated a few paces , took a short run , desperate leap , and plunged into the river . 
He fought and struggled with the water that closed over his head , and screamed in agonies of terror . 
The curse of his own son rang in his ears . 
The shore but one foot of dry ground he could almost touch the step . 
One hand's breadth nearer , and he was saved but the tide bore him onward , under the dark arches of the bridge , and he sank to the bottom . 
Again he rose , and struggled for life . 
Bright flames of fire shot up from earth to heaven , and reeled before his eyes , while the water thundered in his ears , and stunned him with its furious roar . 
A week afterwards the body was washed ashore , some miles down the river , a swollen and disfigured mass . 
And your Dedicator shall ever pray , c . 
THE BASHFUL YOUNG GENTLEMAN We found ourself seated at a small dinner party the other day , opposite a stranger of such singular appearance and manner , that he irresistibly attracted our attention . 
His whole face was suffused with a crimson blush , and bore that downcast , timid , retiring look , which betokens a man ill at ease with himself . 
The young gentleman seated himself at table with evident misgivings , and turning sharp round to pay attention to some observation of his loquacious neighbour , overset his bread . 
We thought the bashful young gentleman would have gone off in an apoplectic fit , consequent upon the violent rush of blood to his face at the occurrence of this catastrophe . 
From this moment we perceived , in the phraseology of the fancy , that it was 'all up' with the bashful young gentleman , and so indeed it was . 
If the bashful young gentleman , in turning a street corner , chance to stumble suddenly upon two or three young ladies of his acquaintance , nothing can exceed his confusion and agitation . 
'Well , Mr. Hopkins ! cries the young lady , 'why , we heard she was bled yesterday evening , and have been perfectly miserable about her . 
'Oh , ah , says the young gentleman , 'so she was . 
Oh , she's very ill , very ill indeed . 
, and after a short pause , gives his glove a great wrench at the wrist , and says , with a strong emphasis on the adjective , 'GOOD morning , GOOD morning . 
'Miss Lambert , let me introduce Mr. Hopkins for the next quadrille . 
Miss Lambert inclines her head graciously . 
Mr. Hopkins bows , and his fair conductress disappears , leaving Mr. Hopkins , as he too well knows , to make himself agreeable . 
Bashful young gentlemen should be cured , or avoided . 
THE OUT AND OUT YOUNG GENTLEMAN Out and out young gentlemen may be divided into two classes those who have something to do , and those who have nothing . 
I shall commence with the former , because that species come more frequently under the notice of young ladies , whom it is our province to warn and to instruct . 
Out of doors he sometimes carries a large ash stick , but only on special occasions , for he prefers keeping his hands in his coat pockets . 
He smokes at all hours , of course , and swears considerably . 
having no notion of life or gaiety , are far too weak spirited and moping for him . 
, to be a brother out and outer , and towards whom he accordingly makes his way . 
He is of any age between twenty and forty , unmarried of course , must be fond of children , and is expected to make himself generally useful if possible . 
Let us illustrate our meaning by an example , which is the shortest mode and the clearest . 
We readily assented , adding , that we hoped we should be alone . 
'Oh , certainly , certainly , said our friend , 'not a soul with us but Mincin . 
'And who is Mincin ? was our natural inquiry . 
'O don't mind him , replied our friend , 'he's a most particular friend of mine , and a very friendly fellow you will find him and so he left us . 
It required no great penetration on our part to discover at once that Mr. Mincin was in every respect a very friendly young gentleman . 
Who the deuce , he should like to know , did they suppose cared about them ? that struck him as being the best of it . 
offered some general remarks upon the nature and treatment of colds in the head , which occupied us agreeably until dinner time . 
During the meal , he devoted himself to complimenting everybody , not forgetting himself , so that we were an uncommonly agreeable quartette . 
Sweet woman , Mrs. Capper , sir ! 'Nay , Mincin I beg , interposed the host , as we were about to reply that Mrs. Capper unquestionably was particularly sweet . 
'Pray , Mincin , don't . 
Finally , our friend having emptied his glass , said , 'God bless you , Mincin , and Mr. Mincin and he shook hands across the table with much affection and earnestness . 
But great as the friendly young gentleman is , in a limited scene like this , he plays the same part on a larger scale with increased ECLAT . 
If anybody's self love is to be flattered , Mr. Mincin is at hand . 
If anybody's overweening vanity is to be pampered , Mr. Mincin will surfeit it . 
not only red coats , but very resplendent and massive badges besides much larger than epaulettes . 
For 'heads' we had written 'brains but upon consideration , we think the former the more appropriate word of the two . 
We will take this latter description of military young gentlemen first . 
The whole heart and soul of the military young gentleman are concentrated in his favourite topic . 
, after a prolonged inspection of the sentry , proceeded to handle his boots with great curiosity , and as much composure and indifference as if the man were wax work . 
, and takes the way towards the high street . 
Well may we inquire not in familiar jest , but in respectful earnest if you call that nothing . 
are keeping a sharp look out , and are ready for anything . 
He has also some choice sentences regarding church and state , culled from the banners in use at the last election , with which he intersperses his conversation at intervals with surprising effect . 
Perhaps his greatest topic of all , though , is the people . 
THE DOMESTIC YOUNG GENTLEMAN Let us make a slight sketch of our amiable friend , Mr. Felix Nixon . 
We are strongly disposed to think , that if we put him in this place , he will answer our purpose without another word of comment . 
Felix , then , is a young gentleman who lives at home with his mother , just within the twopenny post office circle of three miles from St . 
The two chief subjects of Felix's discourse , are himself and his mother , both of whom would appear to be very wonderful and interesting persons . 
As Felix and his mother are seldom apart in body , so Felix and his mother are scarcely ever separate in spirit . 
The recital of these and many other moving perils of the like nature , constantly harrows up the feelings of Mr. Nixon's friends . 
Tea being over , the young ladies resume their work , and Felix insists upon holding a skein of silk while Miss Thompson winds it on a card . 
have long ago set him down as a thorough old bachelor . 
Young ladies mildly call him a 'sarcastic' young gentleman , or a 'severe' young gentleman . 
We , who know better , beg to acquaint them with the fact , that he is merely a censorious young gentleman , and nothing else . 
As young ladies are generally not curious , but laudably desirous to acquire information , the censorious young gentleman is much talked about among them , and many surmises are hazarded regarding him . 
'I wonder , exclaims the eldest Miss Greenwood , laying down her work to turn up the lamp , 'I wonder whether Mr. Fairfax will ever be married . 
When the conversation ranges from the mystery overhanging the censorious young gentleman's behaviour , to the general topics of the day , he sustains his character to admiration . 
'But is not Mr. So and so's performance truly charming ? inquires a young lady . 
'Charming ! replies the censorious young gentleman . 
'Oh , dear , yes , certainly very charming oh , very charming indeed . 
Of music , pictures , books , and poetry , the censorious young gentleman has an equally fine conception . 
As to men and women , he can tell all about them at a glance . 
'Now let us hear your opinion of young Mrs. Barker , says some great believer in the powers of Mr. Fairfax , 'but don't be too severe . 
'I never am severe , replies the censorious young gentleman . 
'Well , never mind that now . 
'Did you observe her manner ? Bless my heart and soul , Mrs. Thompson , did you observe her manner ? that's all I ask . 
'I thought I had done so , rejoins the poor lady , much perplexed 'I did not observe it very closely perhaps . 
'Oh , not very closely , rejoins the censorious young gentleman , triumphantly . 
'Very good then I did . 
Let us talk no more about her . 
has observed something exceedingly odd in Mrs. Barker's manner . 
When he had quite exhausted all beholders , Mr. Griggins received the welcomes and congratulations of the circle , and went through the needful introductions with much ease and many puns . 
At this novel jest we all roared once more . 
'You should consider yourself highly honoured , sir , said we . 
'Sir , replied Mr. Griggins , 'you do me proud . 
Here everybody laughed again and the stout gentleman by the fire whispered in our ear that Griggins was making a dead set at us . 
At this terrible threat the young gentleman became calm , and the young lady , overcome by the revulsion of feeling , instantaneously fainted . 
, he had never beheld him in such excellent cue . 
As we have no mean relish for theatrical entertainments ourself , we are disinterestedly anxious that this should be perfectly understood . 
The theatrical young gentleman has early and important information on all theatrical topics . 
'Well , says he , abruptly , when you meet him in the street , 'here's a pretty to do . 
Flimkins has thrown up his part in the melodrama at the Surrey . 
'And what's to be done ? you inquire with as much gravity as you can counterfeit . 
'Ah , that's the point , replies the theatrical young gentleman , looking very serious 'Boozle declines it positively declines it . 
It's a fine part , too excellent business , I'm told . 
With this piece of news , and laying his finger on his lips as a caution for you not to excite the town with it , the theatrical young gentleman hurries away . 
The theatrical young gentleman , from often frequenting the different theatrical establishments , has pet and familiar names for them all . 
Thus Covent Garden is the garden , Drury Lane the lane , the Victoria the vic , and the Olympic the pic . 
In the same manner he prefixes Christian names when he mentions actors , as Charley Young , Jemmy Buckstone , Fred . 
When he is at a loss for a Christian name , the word 'old' applied indiscriminately answers quite as well as old Charley Matthews at Vestris's , old Harley , and old Braham . 
Whenever an alteration of this kind is made in the playbills , he will remind you that he let you into the secret six months ago . 
The theatrical young gentleman has a great reverence for all that is connected with the stage department of the different theatres . 
that there are three hundred and seventy five people on the stage at one time in the last scene , but is highly indignant with you , unless you believe it also . 
one of the most interesting feats in the whole range of scenic illusion . 
The theatrical young gentleman is a great advocate for violence of emotion and redundancy of action . 
Upon these , and other points of a similar kind , the theatrical young gentleman is a great critic indeed . 
These were poetical young gentlemen . 
We know a poetical young gentleman a very poetical young gentleman . 
The poetical young gentleman is apt to acquire peculiar notions of things too , which plain ordinary people , unblessed with a poetical obliquity of vision , would suppose to be rather distorted . 
This was a stern mystic flight of the poetical young gentleman . 
The poetical young gentleman is fond of quoting passages from his favourite authors , who are all of the gloomy and desponding school . 
When the poetical young gentleman makes use of adjectives , they are all superlatives . 
Everything is of the grandest , greatest , noblest , mightiest , loftiest or the lowest , meanest , obscurest , vilest , and most pitiful . 
He knows no medium for enthusiasm is the soul of poetry and who so enthusiastic as a poetical young gentleman ? 'Mr . 
Milkwash , says a young lady as she unlocks her album to receive the young gentleman's original impromptu contribution , 'how very silent you are ! I think you must be in love . 
Love ! The withering , blighting influence of hope misplaced and affection slighted . 
And so she did , but not at our instance , for other reasons appeared , and it might have been better if she had done so at first . 
Ah ! And he sighs as if mourning over the fallen fortunes of his noble house . 
'She has got over it now , and I firmly hope and trust is happy . 
With this benevolent aspiration he nods his head in a mysterious manner , and whistling the first part of some popular air , thinks perhaps it will be better to change the subject . 
'Never , he replies , bending over the object of admiration , 'never but in your eyes . 
'Oh , Mr. Caveton , cries the young lady , blushing of course . 
'Indeed I speak the truth , replies the throwing off young gentleman , 'I never saw any approach to them . 
I used to think my cousin's blue eyes lovely , but they grow dim and colourless beside yours . 
'Oh ! a beautiful cousin , Mr. Caveton ! replies the young lady , with that perfect artlessness which is the distinguishing characteristic of all young ladies 'an affair , of course . 
'No indeed , indeed you wrong me , rejoins the throwing off young gentleman with great energy . 
The heart , the heart , Miss Lowfield . 
with his voice , assure a circle of wondering listeners that so acute was his ear that he was wholly unable to sing out of tune , let him try as he would . 
Ladies , ladies , the throwing off young gentlemen are often swindlers , and always fools . 
So pray you avoid them . 
THE YOUNG LADIES' YOUNG GENTLEMAN This young gentleman has several titles . 
With some young ladies he is 'a perfect angel , and with others 'quite a love . 
He is likewise a charming creature , a duck , and a dear . 
The young ladies' young gentleman has usually a fresh colour and very white teeth , which latter articles , of course , he displays on every possible opportunity . 
If his head and face be large , his nose prominent , and his figure square , he is an uncommonly fine young man , and worshipped accordingly . 
Should his whiskers meet beneath his chin , so much the better , though this is not absolutely insisted on but he must wear an under waistcoat , and smile constantly . 
There was a great party got up by some party loving friends of ours last summer , to go and dine in Epping Forest . 
This determined us , and we went . 
'I cannot imagine , said the mamma , 'what has become of Mr. Balim always so punctual , always so pleasant and agreeable . 
I am sure I can NOT think . 
'By Heaven , then , I did , replied the young gentleman , 'and with a lovely heiress a superb creature , with twenty thousand pounds . 
'You seem rather struck , observed another young lady . 
''Gad she was a sweet creature , returned the young gentleman , arranging his hair . 
'Of course SHE was struck too ? inquired the first young lady . 
'How can you ask , love ? interposed the second 'could she fail to be ? 'Well , honestly I think she was , observed the young gentleman . 
The lively conversation to which this pleasantry gave rise , lasted for the remainder of the ride , and would have eked out a much longer one . 
We dined rather more comfortably than people usually do under such circumstances , nothing having been left behind but the cork screw and the bread . 
His conversation , too , was exceedingly brilliant . 
What charming fellows these young ladies' young gentlemen are ! Ducks , dears , loves , angels , are all terms inadequate to express their merit . 
They are such amazingly , uncommonly , wonderfully , nice men . 
Here we are at a loss . 
'The grand affair of your life will be , to gain and preserve the esteem of your husband . 
These offers may be forwarded to the Publishers , Messrs . 
Chapman and Hall , London to whom all pieces of plate and other testimonials of approbation from the young ladies generally , are respectfully requested to be addressed . 
of Taverns , Hotels , Billiard rooms , and Gaming Houses , will deprive the Proprietors of their accustomed profits and returns . 
solemnly devoted to the Protestant religion . 
THE YOUNG COUPLE There is to be a wedding this morning at the corner house in the terrace . 
Miss Emma Fielding is going to be married to young Mr. Harvey . 
In the centre , too , is the mighty charm , the cake , glistening with frosted sugar , and garnished beautifully . 
They have dreamt of each other in their quiet dreams , these children , and their little hearts have been nearly broken when the absent one has been dispraised in jest . 
THE FORMAL COUPLE The formal couple are the most prim , cold , immovable , and unsatisfactory people on the face of the earth . 
Everything with the formal couple resolves itself into a matter of form . 
'What kind of funeral was it ? says the formal lady , when he returns home . 
'Oh ! replies the formal gentleman , 'there never was such a gross and disgusting impropriety there were no feathers . 
'No feathers ! cries the lady , as if on wings of black feathers dead people fly to Heaven , and , lacking them , they must of necessity go elsewhere . 
Her husband shakes his head and further adds , that they had seed cake instead of plum cake , and that it was all white wine . 
'All white wine ! exclaims his wife . 
'Nothing but sherry and madeira , says the husband . 
'What ! no port ? 'Not a drop . 
You have now had a good opportunity of judging for yourself , and all I have to say is , that I trust you will never go to a funeral THERE again . 
'My dear , replies the formal gentleman , 'I never will . 
Perhaps this is their chief reason for absenting themselves almost entirely from places of public amusement . 
It was at supper time that this gentleman came out in full force . 
We being of a grave and quiet demeanour had been chosen to escort the formal lady down stairs , and , sitting beside her , had a favourable opportunity of observing her emotions . 
Still she bore it she fanned herself with an indignant air , but still she bore it . 
A comic song was sung , involving a confession from some imaginary gentleman that he had kissed a female , and yet the formal lady bore it . 
Let all couples , present or to come , therefore profit by the example of Mr. and Mrs. Leaver , themselves a loving couple in the first degree . 
'You would suppose , says the romantic lady , 'that they were lovers only just now engaged . 
'Augustus , my life , replies Mrs. Leaver . 
'Sing some little ballad , darling , quoth Mr. Leaver . 
'I couldn't , indeed , dearest , returns Mrs. Leaver . 
'Do , my dove , says Mr. Leaver . 
'I couldn't possibly , my love , replies Mrs. Leaver 'and it's very naughty of you to ask me . 
'Naughty , darling ! cries Mr. Leaver . 
'Yes , very naughty , and very cruel , returns Mrs. Leaver , 'for you know I have a sore throat , and that to sing would give me great pain . 
You're a monster , and I hate you . 
Indeed upon some occasions , such as a pic nic or a water party , their lovingness is even more developed , as we had an opportunity last summer of observing in person . 
There was a great water party made up to go to Twickenham and dine , and afterwards dance in an empty villa by the river side , hired expressly for the purpose . 
It was at this time that we first recognised Mr. Leaver . 
plunging suddenly backward , and displaying nothing of himself to the company , but two violently struggling legs . 
Mrs. Leaver shrieked again several times , and cried piteously 'Is he dead ? Tell me the worst . 
was once more put in his hand , by the exertions of the two firemen watermen . 
Mr. Leaver then exclaimed , 'Augustus , my child , come to me and Mr. Leaver said , 'Augusta , my love , compose yourself , I am not injured . 
both Mr. Leaver and the medical gentleman hurried away together . 
Very few of the party missed the loving couple and the few who did , heartily congratulated each other on their disappearance . 
'What's like me ? says the gentleman sharply . 
'Saying that I contradict you , replies the lady . 
'Certainly , certainly , have it your own way , pray . 
You see how much I contradict you , rejoins the lady . 
'Of course , you didn't contradict me at dinner time oh no , not you ! says the gentleman . 
'Yes , I did , says the lady . 
I am not your slave . 
'Well then cries the gentleman , rising in despair , and pacing the room with rapid strides . 
There is a long silence , and this time the lady begins . 
'I appealed to Mr. Jenkins , who sat next to me on the sofa in the drawing room during tea 'Morgan , you mean , interrupts the gentleman . 
'I do not mean anything of the kind , answers the lady . 
'For Heaven's sake , Charlotte , cries her husband , 'do not tell the child such preposterous nonsense . 
Six feet high ! 'Well , replies the lady , 'surely I may be permitted to have an opinion my opinion is , that she is six feet high at least six feet . 
I am sure I am glad you are amused , and I'll say it again six feet . 
THE COUPLE WHO DOTE UPON THEIR CHILDREN The couple who dote upon their children have usually a great many of them six or eight at least . 
The children are either the healthiest in all the world , or the most unfortunate in existence . 
In either case , they are equally the theme of their doting parents , and equally a source of mental anguish and irritation to their doting parents' friends . 
The couple who dote upon their children recognise no dates but those connected with their births , accidents , illnesses , or remarkable deeds . 
They keep a mental almanack with a vast number of Innocents' days , all in red letters . 
Time was made , according to their creed , not for slaves but for girls and boys the restless sands in his glass are but little children at play . 
As we have already intimated , the children of this couple can know no medium . 
They are either prodigies of good health or prodigies of bad health whatever they are , they must be prodigies . 
His children must be , in some respect or other , above and beyond the children of all other people . 
But perhaps this may be an extreme case , and one not justly entitled to be considered as a precedent of general application . 
Everything reminds Mr. Whiffler of Ned , or Mrs. Whiffler of Mary Anne , or of the time before Ned was born , or the time before Mary Anne was thought of . 
The slightest remark , however harmless in itself , will awaken slumbering recollections of the twins . 
It is impossible to steer clear of them . 
They will come uppermost , let the poor man do what he may . 
Nothing can keep down the twins . 
'Your talking of the Pyramids , says Mr. Whiffler , quite as a matter of course , 'reminds me of the twins . 
'You wouldn't say they were red , I suppose ? says Mr. Whiffler . 
'What should you say to blue ? says Mr. Whiffler . 
The friend glances at him , and observing a different expression in his face , ventures to say , 'I should say they WERE blue a decided blue . 
'A fact , notwithstanding , cries Mr. Whiffler 'and let me tell you , Saunders , THAT'S not a common thing in twins , or a circumstance that'll happen every day . 
a violent bursting open of the dining room door , and the tumultuous appearance of six small children , closely succeeded by a strong nursery maid with a twin in each arm . 
At length Mrs. Whiffler is heard to say , 'Mr . 
Saunders , shall I give you some pudding ? A breathless silence ensues , and sixteen small eyes are fixed upon the guest in expectation of his reply . 
A wild shout of joy proclaims that he has said 'No , thank you . 
Spoons are waved in the air , legs appear above the table cloth in uncontrollable ecstasy , and eighty short fingers dabble in damson syrup . 
Mr. Whiffler and his friend are left alone together , but Mr. Whiffler's thoughts are still with his family , if his family are not with him . 
'Saunders , says he , after a short silence , 'if you please , we'll drink Mrs. Whiffler and the children . 
Mr. Saunders feels this to be a reproach against himself for not proposing the same sentiment , and drinks it in some confusion . 
'Ah ! Mr. Whiffler sighs , 'these children , Saunders , make one quite an old man . 
Mr. Saunders thinks that if they were his , they would make him a very old man but he says nothing . 
'I am glad , however , says Mr. Whiffler , 'that you ARE a bachelor , glad on one account , Saunders a selfish one , I admit . 
Will you do Mrs. Whiffler and myself a favour ? Mr. Saunders is surprised evidently surprised but he replies , 'with the greatest pleasure . 
The fact is , that Mrs. Whiffler is in short , we expect another . 
'Not a ninth ! cries the friend , all aghast at the idea . 
'Yes , Saunders , rejoins Mr. Whiffler , solemnly , 'a ninth . 
They relate the clever things their offspring say or do , and weary every company with their prolixity and absurdity . 
In such cases the sins of the fathers indeed descend upon the children for people soon come to regard them as predestined little bores . 
for they are apt to underrate and entertain a jealousy of any children but their own . 
If they examined their own hearts , they would , perhaps , find at the bottom of all this , more self love and egotism than they think of . 
Self love and egotism are bad qualities , of which the unrestrained exhibition , though it may be sometimes amusing , never fails to be wearisome and unpleasant . 
Couples who dote upon their children , therefore , are best avoided . 
When the weather is to be fine the lady comes out and the gentleman goes in when wet , the gentleman comes out and the lady goes in . 
They never seek each other's society , are never elevated and depressed by the same cause , and have nothing in common . 
The cool couple are seldom alone together , and when they are , nothing can exceed their apathy and dulness the gentleman being for the most part drowsy , and the lady silent . 
If they enter into conversation , it is usually of an ironical or recriminatory nature . 
To which the gentleman replies , 'Oh yes , he's quite comfortable quite . 
'There are not many married men , I hope , returns the lady , 'who seek comfort in such selfish gratifications as you do . 
'Nor many wives who seek comfort in such selfish gratifications as YOU do , I hope , retorts the gentleman . 
'Whose fault is that ? demands the lady . 
The gentleman becoming more sleepy , returns no answer . 
'Whose fault is that ? the lady repeats . 
to seek a little recreation elsewhere she is not expected to pine and mope to death , she hopes . 
'Ah ! there it is ! says the gentleman , shrugging his shoulders , 'I knew that perfectly well . 
I knew you couldn't devote an evening to your own home . 
But it must not be supposed that the cool couple are habitually a quarrelsome one . 
These differences are only occasions for a little self excuse , nothing more . 
When they meet in society , the cool couple are the best bred people in existence . 
'Ay , yours , and coming this way too . 
'How very odd ! says the lady , in a languid tone , 'I thought he had been at Dover . 
Thus a great many cool couples go on until they are cold couples , and the grave has closed over their folly and indifference . 
THE PLAUSIBLE COUPLE The plausible couple have many titles . 
They are 'a delightful couple , an 'affectionate couple , 'a most agreeable couple , 'a good hearted couple , and 'the best natured couple in existence . 
'But is it really possible to please the world ! says some doubting reader . 
Nay , it is not only very possible , but very easy . 
The ways are crooked , and sometimes foul and low . 
will certainly find that gentleman or lady , on a very short reflection , to be a plausible couple . 
The plausible couple are the most ecstatic people living the most sensitive people to merit on the face of the earth . 
Nothing clever or virtuous escapes them . 
They have microscopic eyes for such endowments , and can find them anywhere . 
The plausible couple never fawn oh no ! They don't even scruple to tell their friends of their faults . 
'We never flatter , my dear Mrs. Jackson , say the plausible couple 'we speak our minds . 
Neither you nor Mr. Jackson have faults enough . 
It may sound strangely , but it is true . 
You have not faults enough . 
You know our way , we must speak out , and always do . 
They are always loving and harmonious . 
The plausible gentleman calls his wife 'darling , and the plausible lady addresses him as 'dearest . 
If it be Mr. and Mrs. Bobtail Widger , Mrs. Widger is 'Lavinia , darling , and Mr. Widger is 'Bobtail , dearest . 
Speaking of each other , they observe the same tender form . 
Mrs. Widger relates what 'Bobtail' said , and Mr. Widger recounts what 'darling' thought and did . 
You admit a knowledge of the Clickits the plausible lady immediately launches out in their praise . 
She quite loves the Clickits . 
'The Clickits , dearest , replies Mrs. Widger . 
'Indeed you are right , darling , Mr. Widger rejoins 'the Clickits are a very high minded , worthy , estimable couple . 
are mentioned for they are an honour to human nature , and do one good to think of . 
'YOU know the Clickits , Mrs. Jackson ? he says , addressing the lady of the house . 
'No , indeed we have not that pleasure , she replies . 
'You astonish me ! exclaims Mr. Widger 'not know the Clickits ! why , you are the very people of all others who ought to be their bosom friends . 
Such people ought not to be strangers to each other . 
'Is it weak or plain , or what ? inquires the other . 
'Weak or plain , my love , returns the plausible lady , 'it's a fright a perfect little fright you never saw such a miserable creature in all your days . 
Positively you must not let her see one of these beautiful dears again , or you'll break her heart , you will indeed . 
nice little couples in the abstract , we purpose telling in this place a little story about a nice little couple of our acquaintance . 
Mr. and Mrs. Chirrup are the nice little couple in question . 
Mr. Chirrup has the smartness , and something of the brisk , quick manner of a small bird . 
Mrs. Chirrup is the prettiest of all little women , and has the prettiest little figure conceivable . 
Nobody knows all this better than Mr. Chirrup , though he rather takes on that he don't . 
Accordingly he is very proud of his better half , and evidently considers himself , as all other people consider him , rather fortunate in having her to wife . 
We have already had occasion to observe that Mrs. Chirrup is an incomparable housewife . 
She is , besides , a cunning worker in muslin and fine linen , and a special hand at marketing to the very best advantage . 
But if there be one branch of housekeeping in which she excels to an utterly unparalleled and unprecedented extent , it is in the important one of carving . 
Mr. Chirrup has a bachelor friend , who lived with him in his own days of single blessedness , and to whom he is mightily attached . 
The more sprightly and good natured people we have , the better therefore , let us wish well to all nice little couples , and hope that they may increase and multiply . 
THE EGOTISTICAL COUPLE Egotism in couples is of two kinds . 
It is our purpose to show this by two examples . 
There is no outward sign by which an egotistical couple may be known and avoided . 
They come upon you unawares there is no guarding against them . 
No man can of himself be forewarned or forearmed against an egotistical couple . 
The egotistical couple have undergone every calamity , and experienced every pleasurable and painful sensation of which our nature is susceptible . 
You cannot by possibility tell the egotistical couple anything they don't know , or describe to them anything they have not felt . 
They have been everything but dead . 
Sometimes we are tempted to wish they had been even that , but only in our uncharitable moments , which are few and far between . 
The inquiry was of course touching the lady's health , and the answer happened to be , that she had not been very well . 
'Oh , my dear ! said the egotistical lady , 'don't talk of not being well . 
He doesn't know what it is to be ill , he hasn't the least idea of it not the faintest conception . 
'My love , returned the egotistical gentleman , in a low and pious voice , 'you mistake me I feel grateful very grateful . 
On our replying in the negative , he presumed we had often met Lord Slang , or beyond all doubt , that we were on intimate terms with Sir Chipkins Glogwog . 
'To be sure it did , said the egotistical gentleman , 'it was Slang's story , I remember now , perfectly . 
Mr. and Mrs. Sliverstone are an egotistical couple of another class , for all the lady's egotism is about her husband , and all the gentleman's about his wife . 
For example Mr. Sliverstone is a clerical gentleman , and occasionally writes sermons , as clerical gentlemen do . 
and how she knows it cannot be good for his health , and is very uneasy about it . 
ought to glory in it . 
Only seventy one , only seventy one . 
This would be well enough if Mr. and Mrs. Sliverstone kept it to themselves , or even to themselves and a friend or two but they do not . 
The more hearers they have , the more egotistical the couple become , and the more anxious they are to make believers in their merits . 
Perhaps this is the worst kind of egotism . 
It has not even the poor excuse of being spontaneous , but is the result of a deliberate system and malice aforethought . 
Mere empty headed conceit excites our pity , but ostentatious hypocrisy awakens our disgust . 
THE COUPLE WHO CODDLE THEMSELVES Mrs. Merrywinkle's maiden name was Chopper . 
She was the only child of Mr. and Mrs. Chopper . 
Mr. and Mrs. Merrywinkle are a couple who coddle themselves and the venerable Mrs. Chopper is an aider and abettor in the same . 
Mr. Merrywinkle is a rather lean and long necked gentleman , middle aged and middle sized , and usually troubled with a cold in the head . 
Mrs. Merrywinkle is a delicate looking lady , with very light hair , and is exceedingly subject to the same unpleasant disorder . 
Both Mr. and Mrs. Chopper wear an extraordinary quantity of flannel , and have a habit of putting their feet in hot water to an unnatural extent . 
Mr. Merrywinkle's leaving home to go to business on a damp or wet morning is a very elaborate affair . 
He puts on wash leather socks over his stockings , and India rubber shoes above his boots , and wears under his waistcoat a cuirass of hare skin . 
Besides these precautions , he winds a thick shawl round his throat , and blocks up his mouth with a large silk handkerchief . 
But Mr. Merrywinkle comes home to dinner . 
After supper , it is ten to one but the last named old lady becomes worse , and is led off to bed with the chronic complaint in full vigour . 
THE OLD COUPLE They are grandfather and grandmother to a dozen grown people and have great grandchildren besides their bodies are bent , their hair is grey , their step tottering and infirm . 
They are but the rusting link that feebly joins the two , and is silently loosening its hold and dropping asunder . 
It seems but yesterday and yet three of their children have sunk into the grave , and the tree that shades it has grown quite old . 
One was an infant they wept for him the next a girl , a slight young thing too delicate for earth her loss was hard indeed to bear . 
The third , a man . 
That was the worst of all , but even that grief is softened now . 
The rest are only seen in dreams , and even they are unlike what they were , in eyes so old and dim . 
One or two dresses from the bridal wardrobe are yet preserved . 
They are of a quaint and antique fashion , and seldom seen except in pictures . 
White has turned yellow , and brighter hues have faded . 
Do you wonder , child ? The wrinkled face was once as smooth as yours , the eyes as bright , the shrivelled skin as fair and delicate . 
It is the work of hands that have been dust these many years . 
He recollects something of a favourite playmate her name was Lucy so they tell him . 
He is not sure whether she was married , or went abroad , or died . 
It is a long while ago , and he don't remember . 
Is nothing as it used to be does no one feel , or think , or act , as in days of yore ? Yes . 
There is an aged woman who once lived servant with the old lady's father , and is sheltered in an alms house not far off . 
She is still attached to the family , and loves them all she nursed the children in her lap , and tended in their sickness those who are no more . 
She has seen a great deal of trouble her husband and her son died long ago but she has got over that , and is happy now quite happy . 
If ever her attachment to her old protectors were disturbed by fresher cares and hopes , it has long since resumed its former current . 
It has filled the void in the poor creature's heart , and replaced the love of kindred . 
Death has not left her alone , and this , with a roof above her head , and a warm hearth to sit by , makes her cheerful and contented . 
Does she remember the marriage of great grandmamma ? Ay , that she does , as well as if it was only yesterday . 
'That's a great age , Crofts , says the old gentleman . 
'I don't think it's sich a wery great age , Sir , replied the barber . 
'Crofts , rejoins the old gentleman , 'you're talking nonsense to me . 
'You don't mean that , Crofts ? says the old gentleman . 
'I do indeed , Sir , retorts the barber , 'and as wiggerous as Julius Caesar , my grandfather was . 
He always would go a running about the streets walking never satisfied HIS spirit and he run against a post and died of a hurt in his chest . 
The old gentleman says no more until the shaving is concluded , and then he gives Crofts half a crown to drink his health . 
there was old Parr , and in some parts of England , ninety five or so is a common age , quite a common age . 
The old lady reads aloud , in a tremulous voice , out of a great Bible , and the old gentleman with his hand to his ear , listens with profound respect . 
To that one young couple on whose bright destiny the thoughts of nations are fixed , may the youth of England look , and not in vain , for an example . 
THE MUDFOG AND OTHER SKETCHES PUBLIC LIFE OF MR . 
There is a good deal of water about Mudfog , and yet it is not exactly the sort of town for a watering place , either . 
Water is a perverse sort of element at the best of times , and in Mudfog it is particularly so . 
Mudfog is a healthy place very healthy damp , perhaps , but none the worse for that . 
So , admitting Mudfog to be damp , we distinctly state that it is salubrious . 
The town of Mudfog is extremely picturesque . 
Limehouse and Ratcliff Highway are both something like it , but they give you a very faint idea of Mudfog . 
There are a great many more public houses in Mudfog more than in Ratcliff Highway and Limehouse put together . 
The public buildings , too , are very imposing . 
The idea of placing a large window on one side of the door , and a small one on the other , is particularly happy . 
There is a fine old Doric beauty , too , about the padlock and scraper , which is strictly in keeping with the general effect . 
In this room do the mayor and corporation of Mudfog assemble together in solemn council for the public weal . 
Nicholas Tulrumble was always the same . 
Time , which strews a man's head with silver , sometimes fills his pockets with gold . 
As he gradually performed one good office for Nicholas Tulrumble , he was obliging enough , not to omit the other . 
Somehow or other , just about this time , despite the health preserving air of Mudfog , the Mayor died . 
It was a most extraordinary circumstance he had lived in Mudfog for eighty five years . 
Strange as it was , however , die he did , without taking the slightest notice of the corporation and the corporation were imperatively called upon to elect his successor . 
The more he thought of the Lord Mayor , the more enviable a personage he seemed . 
A crimson flush mantled over his face as he read it , for visions of brightness were already dancing before his imagination . 
'My dear , said Mr. Tulrumble to his wife , 'they have elected me , Mayor of Mudfog . 
The communication was very unexpected but Mrs. Tulrumble only ejaculated 'Lor a mussy ! once again , as if a Mayor were a mere ordinary Christian , at which Mr. Tulrumble frowned gloomily . 
'What a pity 'tan't in London , ain't it ? said Mrs. Tulrumble , after a short pause 'what a pity 'tan't in London , where you might have had a show . 
'I MIGHT have a show in Mudfog , if I thought proper , I apprehend , said Mr. Tulrumble mysteriously . 
'Lor ! so you might , I declare , replied Mrs. Tulrumble . 
'And a good one too , said Mr. Tulrumble . 
'Delightful ! exclaimed Mrs. Tulrumble . 
'One which would rather astonish the ignorant people down there , said Mr. Tulrumble . 
'It would kill them with envy , said Mrs. Tulrumble . 
But even this was not all . 
He had a general licence , and he showed his sense of the compliment by making the most of it . 
'Well , Twigger ! said Nicholas Tulrumble , condescendingly . 
'I want you to go into training , Twigger , said Mr. Tulrumble . 
'What for , sir ? inquired Ned , with a stare . 
'Hush , hush , Twigger ! said the Mayor . 
'Shut the door , Mr. Jennings . 
As the Mayor said this , he unlocked a high closet , and disclosed a complete suit of brass armour , of gigantic dimensions . 
'I want you to wear this next Monday , Twigger , said the Mayor . 
'Bless your heart and soul , sir ! replied Ned , 'you might as well ask me to wear a seventy four pounder , or a cast iron boiler . 
'Nonsense , Twigger , nonsense ! said the Mayor . 
'I couldn't stand under it , sir , said Twigger 'it would make mashed potatoes of me , if I attempted it . 
'Pooh , pooh , Twigger ! returned the Mayor . 
'I tell you I have seen it done with my own eyes , in London , and the man wasn't half such a man as you are , either . 
'It's the easiest thing in the world , rejoined the Mayor . 
'It's nothing , said Mr. Jennings . 
'When you're used to it , added Ned . 
'You do it by degrees , said the Mayor . 
'You would begin with one piece to morrow , and two the next day , and so on , till you had got it all on . 
Mr. Jennings , give Twigger a glass of rum . 
Just try the breast plate , Twigger . 
Stay take another glass of rum first . 
Help me to lift it , Mr. Jennings . 
'Now , wear that with grace and propriety on Monday next , said Tulrumble , 'and I'll make your fortune . 
'I'll try what I can do , sir , said Twigger . 
'It must be kept a profound secret , said Tulrumble . 
'Of course , sir , replied Twigger . 
'And you must be sober , said Tulrumble 'perfectly sober . 
However , that's neither here nor there . 
Never was man so delighted as Nicholas Tulrumble never was woman so charmed as Nicholas Tulrumble's wife . 
Here was a sight for the common people of Mudfog ! A live man in brass armour ! Why , they would go wild with wonder ! The day THE Monday arrived . 
If the morning had been made to order , it couldn't have been better adapted to the purpose . 
They never showed a better fog in London on Lord Mayor's day , than enwrapped the town of Mudfog on that eventful occasion . 
The thick damp mist hung over the town like a huge gauze curtain . 
All was dim and dismal . 
The church steeples had bidden a temporary adieu to the world below and every object of lesser importance houses , barns , hedges , trees , and barges had all taken the veil . 
The church clock struck one . 
This was one of the Circus people , who always came down to Mudfog at that time of the year , and who had been engaged by Nicholas Tulrumble expressly for the occasion . 
But a Mudfog crowd never was a reasonable one , and in all probability never will be . 
So , the herald was a decided failure , and the crowd hooted with great energy , as he pranced ingloriously away . 
'They won't laugh now , Mr. Jennings , said Nicholas Tulrumble . 
'I think not , sir , said Mr. Jennings . 
'See how eager they look , said Nicholas Tulrumble . 
The companionable footman was very facetious to Ned , and Ned was very gallant to the cook and housemaid by turns . 
They were all very cosy and comfortable and the something strong went briskly round . 
The crowd roared it was not with wonder , it was not with surprise it was most decidedly and unquestionably with laughter . 
'What ! said Mr. Tulrumble , starting up in the four wheel chaise . 
'Laughing ? If they laugh at a man in real brass armour , they'd laugh when their own fathers were dying . 
Why doesn't he go into his place , Mr. Jennings ? What's he rolling down towards us for ? he has no business here ! 'I am afraid , sir faltered Mr. Jennings . 
'Afraid of what , sir ? said Nicholas Tulrumble , looking up into the secretary's face . 
'I am afraid he's drunk , sir , replied Mr. Jennings . 
Nicholas Tulrumble took one look at the extraordinary figure that was bearing down upon them and then , clasping his secretary by the arm , uttered an audible groan in anguish of spirit . 
'Twigger , you villain ! said Nicholas Tulrumble , quite forgetting his dignity , 'go back . 
I'm the wretched father of an unfortunate family but I am very faithful , sir . 
'Here ! will anybody lead him away ? said Nicholas 'if they'll call on me afterwards , I'll reward them well . 
Two or three men stepped forward , with the view of bearing Ned off , when the secretary interposed . 
'Take care ! take care ! said Mr. Jennings . 
'I beg your pardon , sir but they'd better not go too near him , because , if he falls over , he'll certainly crush somebody . 
At this hint the crowd retired on all sides to a very respectful distance , and left Ned , like the Duke of Devonshire , in a little circle of his own . 
'But , Mr. Jennings , said Nicholas Tulrumble , 'he'll be suffocated . 
'I'm very sorry for it , sir , replied Mr. Jennings 'but nobody can get that armour off , without his own assistance . 
I'm quite certain of it from the way he put it on . 
Gentlemen , I'm an unhappy wretch . 
I'm a body , gentlemen , in a brass coffin . 
When she had said all this with due vehemence , she posted after Ned , who was dragging himself along as best he could , and deploring his unhappiness in most dismal tones . 
After which , the procession got back to Mudfog Hall any how it could and Nicholas and the corporation sat down to dinner . 
But the dinner was flat , and Nicholas was disappointed . 
They were such dull sleepy old fellows , that corporation . 
There was only one man in the party who was thoroughly awake and he was insolent , and called him Nick . 
But these were not the worst of Nicholas Tulrumble's doings . 
If they had been , he might have remained a Mayor to this day , and have talked till he lost his voice . 
He contracted a relish for statistics , and got philosophical and the statistics and the philosophy together , led him into an act which increased his unpopularity and hastened his downfall . 
So he read up for the subject , and determined to come out on the corporation with a burst , the very next time the licence was applied for . 
He descanted in glowing terms upon the increasing depravity of his native town of Mudfog , and the excesses committed by its population . 
yielded three thousand seven hundred and eighty people with beer jugs per day , or twenty six thousand four hundred and sixty people with beer jugs , per week . 
Then he proceeded to show that a tambourine and moral degradation were synonymous terms , and a fiddle and vicious propensities wholly inseparable . 
But although Nicholas triumphed , his triumph was short . 
He grew tired of the lonely magnificence of Mudfog Hall , and his heart yearned towards the Lighterman's Arms . 
He wished he had never set up as a public man , and sighed for the good old times of the coal shop , and the chimney corner . 
At length old Nicholas , being thoroughly miserable , took heart of grace , paid the secretary a quarter's wages in advance , and packed him off to London by the next coach . 
Having taken this step , he put his hat on his head , and his pride in his pocket , and walked down to the old room at the Lighterman's Arms . 
There were only two of the old fellows there , and they looked coldly on Nicholas as he proffered his hand . 
'Are you going to put down pipes , Mr. Tulrumble ? said one . 
'Or trace the progress of crime to 'bacca ? growled another . 
'Neither , replied Nicholas Tulrumble , shaking hands with them both , whether they would or not . 
'I've come down to say that I'm very sorry for having made a fool of myself , and that I hope you'll give me up the old chair , again . 
As to old Nicholas , he kept his word , and having had six weeks of public life , never tried it any more . 
He went to sleep in the town hall at the very next meeting and , in full proof of his sincerity , has requested us to write this faithful narrative . 
This is the first time we have published any of our gleanings from this particular source . 
Perhaps , at some future period , we may venture to open the chronicles of Mudfog . 
We give our correspondent's letters in the order in which they reached us . 
Any attempt at amalgamating them into one beautiful whole , would only destroy that glowing tone , that dash of wildness , and rich vein of picturesque interest , which pervade them throughout . 
'MUDFOG , MONDAY NIGHT , SEVEN O'CLOCK . 
'We are in a state of great excitement here . 
Nothing is spoken of , but the approaching meeting of the association . 
It is confidently rumoured that Professors Snore , Doze , and Wheezy have engaged three beds and a sitting room at the Pig and Tinder box . 
I give you the rumour as it has reached me but I cannot , as yet , vouch for its accuracy . 
The moment I have been enabled to obtain any certain information upon this interesting point , you may depend upon receiving it . 
I have just returned from a personal interview with the landlord of the Pig and Tinder box . 
Amidst such conflicting testimony it is difficult to arrive at the real truth but you may depend upon receiving authentic information upon this point the moment the fact is ascertained . 
A boy fell through the window of the pastrycook's shop at the corner of the High street about half an hour ago , which has occasioned much confusion . 
The general impression is , that it was an accident . 
Pray heaven it may prove so ! 'TUESDAY , NOON . 
'At an early hour this morning the bells of all the churches struck seven o'clock the effect of which , in the present lively state of the town , was extremely singular . 
You may conceive the anxiety with which we are all looking forward to the arrival of the four o'clock coach this afternoon . 
'Notwithstanding the excited state of the populace , no outrage has yet been committed , owing to the admirable discipline and discretion of the police , who are nowhere to be seen . 
A barrel organ is playing opposite my window , and groups of people , offering fish and vegetables for sale , parade the streets . 
With these exceptions everything is quiet , and I trust will continue so . 
This intelligence is EXCLUSIVE and I leave you and your readers to draw their own inferences from it . 
Why Professor Wheezy , of all people in the world , should repair to the Original Pig in preference to the Pig and Tinder box , it is not easy to conceive . 
The professor is a man who should be above all such petty feelings . 
Slug , so celebrated for his statistical researches , arrived this afternoon by the four o'clock stage . 
His complexion is a dark purple , and he has a habit of sighing constantly . 
He looked extremely well , and appeared in high health and spirits . 
Mr. Woodensconce also came down in the same conveyance . 
The distinguished gentleman was fast asleep on his arrival , and I am informed by the guard that he had been so the whole way . 
I fear , unless some very extraordinary arrivals take place to night , that consequences may arise from this popular ferment , which every man of sense and feeling would deplore . 
'I have just heard that the boy who fell through the pastrycook's window last night has died of the fright . 
He was suddenly called upon to pay three and sixpence for the damage done , and his constitution , it seems , was not strong enough to bear up against the shock . 
The inquest , it is said , will be held to morrow . 
'Professors Muff and Nogo have just driven up to the hotel door they at once ordered dinner with great condescension . 
We are all very much delighted with the urbanity of their manners , and the ease with which they adapt themselves to the forms and ceremonies of ordinary life . 
It is conjectured that some experiments will be tried upon the dog to night if any particulars should transpire , I will forward them by express . 
'The animal has been procured . 
He is a pug dog , of rather intelligent appearance , in good condition , and with very short legs . 
He has been tied to a curtain peg in a dark room , and is howling dreadfully . 
'The dog has just been rung for . 
'The dog's tail and ears have been sent down stairs to be washed from which circumstance we infer that the animal is no more . 
His forelegs have been delivered to the boots to be brushed , which strengthens the supposition . 
I am not yet in a condition to inform you what circumstance induced the bereaved lady to direct her steps to the hotel which had witnessed the last struggles of her PROTEGE . 
I can only state that she arrived there , at the very instant when his detached members were passing through the passage on a small tray . 
The unfortunate lady remains at the Pig and Tinder box , and up to this time is reported in a very precarious state . 
The report appears to have had its origin in his mysterious disappearance . 
This fortunate discovery has in some degree restored our gaiety and cheerfulness . 
It is proposed to get up a subscription for him without delay . 
'Everybody is nervously anxious to see what to morrow will bring forth . 
If any one should arrive in the course of the night , I have left strict directions to be called immediately . 
I should have sat up , indeed , but the agitating events of this day have been too much for me . 
'No news yet of either of the Professors Snore , Doze , or Wheezy . 
It is very strange ! 'WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON . 
'All is now over and , upon one point at least , I am at length enabled to set the minds of your readers at rest . 
Upon this head , rumour is silent I have my speculations , but forbear to give utterance to them just now . 
'The town is filling fast eighteenpence has been offered for a bed and refused . 
The incarceration of this gentleman is greatly to be regretted , as his absence will preclude any discussion on the subject . 
'The bills are being taken down in all directions , and lodgings are being secured on almost any terms . 
I have heard of fifteen shillings a week for two rooms , exclusive of coals and attendance , but I can scarcely believe it . 
The vigour and promptness of these measures cannot be too highly extolled . 
'Intelligence has just been brought me , that an elderly female , in a state of inebriety , has declared in the open street her intention to do for Mr. Slug . 
Some statistical returns compiled by that gentleman , relative to the consumption of raw spirituous liquors in this place , are supposed to be the cause of the wretch's animosity . 
'The disturbance , I am happy to inform you , has been completely quelled , and the ringleader taken into custody . 
She had a pail of cold water thrown over her , previous to being locked up , and expresses great contrition and uneasiness . 
I shall send you a full report of to morrow's proceedings by the night coach . 
'I open my letter to say that nothing whatever has occurred since I folded it up . 
'The sun rose this morning at the usual hour . 
to shine with more than common brilliancy , and to shed a refulgent lustre upon the town , such as I had never observed before . 
This is the more extraordinary , as the sky was perfectly cloudless , and the atmosphere peculiarly fine . 
At half past nine o'clock the general committee assembled , with the last year's president in the chair . 
on no fewer than seven thousand two hundred and forty three topics , was received with a degree of enthusiasm which no efforts could suppress . 
The various committees and sections having been appointed , and the more formal business transacted , the great proceedings of the meeting commenced at eleven o'clock precisely . 
I had the happiness of occupying a most eligible position at that time , in 'SECTION A. ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY . 
GREAT ROOM , PIG AND TINDER BOX . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Professors Doze and Wheezy . 
'The scene at this moment was particularly striking . 
The contrast between their fair faces and the dark coats and trousers of the scientific gentlemen I shall never cease to remember while Memory holds her seat . 
This appeared to him , the only difficulty . 
'THE AUTHOR submitted that this difficulty was easily overcome , or rather that there was no difficulty at all in the case . 
'The President and several members of the section highly complimented the author of the paper last read , on his most ingenious and important treatise . 
It was determined that the subject should be recommended to the immediate consideration of the council . 
WIGSBY produced a cauliflower somewhat larger than a chaise umbrella , which had been raised by no other artificial means than the simple application of highly carbonated soda water as manure . 
'A Member wished to know how many thousand additional lamps the royal property would be illuminated with , on the night after the descent . 
'The Member expressed himself much gratified with this announcement . 
A melancholy instance of a presentiment entertained by the animal of his approaching dissolution , was recorded . 
From these gestures it was understood that he wished the attendant to keep the cards , which he had ever since done . 
He had not expressed any wish relative to his watch , which had accordingly been pawned by the same individual . 
'After some hesitation a Member replied that the pig faced lady was his mother in law , and that he trusted the President would not violate the sanctity of private life . 
He had considered the pig faced lady a public character . 
'SECTION B. ANATOMY AND MEDICINE . 
COACH HOUSE , PIG AND TINDER BOX . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Professors Muff and Nogo . 
He had been called in to visit the patient on the st of April , . 
He was then labouring under symptoms peculiarly alarming to any medical man . 
His frame was stout and muscular , his step firm and elastic , his cheeks plump and red , his voice loud , his appetite good , his pulse full and round . 
He laughed constantly , and in so hearty a manner that it was terrible to hear him . 
By dint of powerful medicine , low diet , and bleeding , the symptoms in the course of three days perceptibly decreased . 
In the course of a month he was sufficiently recovered to be carried down stairs by two nurses , and to enjoy an airing in a close carriage , supported by soft pillows . 
At the present moment he was restored so far as to walk about , with the slight assistance of a crutch and a boy . 
It would perhaps be gratifying to the section to learn that he ate little , drank little , slept little , and was never heard to laugh by any accident whatever . 
W. R. FEE , in complimenting the honourable member upon the triumphant cure he had effected , begged to ask whether the patient still bled freely ? 'DR . 
KUTANKUMAGEN replied in the affirmative . 
And you found that he bled freely during the whole course of the disorder ? 'DR . 
Oh dear , yes most freely . 
NEESHAWTS supposed , that if the patient had not submitted to be bled with great readiness and perseverance , so extraordinary a cure could never , in fact , have been accomplished . 
Kutankumagen rejoined , certainly not . 
exhibited a wax preparation of the interior of a gentleman who in early life had inadvertently swallowed a door key . 
With this key the medical student entered the house of the deceased gentleman , and committed a burglary to a large amount , for which he was subsequently tried and executed . 
'THE PRESIDENT wished to know what became of the original key after the lapse of years . 
Mr. Knight Bell replied that the gentleman was always much accustomed to punch , and it was supposed the acid had gradually devoured it . 
NEESHAWTS and several of the members were of opinion that the key must have lain very cold and heavy upon the gentleman's stomach . 
KNIGHT BELL believed it did at first . 
Thus , the fortieth part of a grain of calomel was supposed to be equal to a five grain calomel pill , and so on in proportion throughout the whole range of medicine . 
This man was a hard drinker . 
had dispersed three drops of rum through a bucket of water , and requested the man to drink the whole . 
What was the result ? Before he had drunk a quart , he was in a state of beastly intoxication and five other men were made dead drunk with the remainder . 
The President remarked that this was a most important discovery , and he hoped the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen would patronize it immediately . 
'PROFESSOR NOGO called the attention of the section to a very extraordinary case of animal magnetism . 
A private watchman , being merely looked at by the operator from the opposite side of a wide street , was at once observed to be in a very drowsy and languid state . 
HAY LOFT , ORIGINAL PIG . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Mr. Ledbrain and Mr. Timbered . 
SLUG stated to the section the result of some calculations he had made with great difficulty and labour , regarding the state of infant education among the middle classes of London . 
The ignorance that prevailed , was lamentable . 
One child , on being asked whether he would rather be Saint George of England or a respectable tallow chandler , instantly replied , Taint George of Ingling . 
They had not the slightest conception of the commonest principles of mathematics , and considered Sindbad the Sailor the most enterprising voyager that the world had ever produced . 
'THE PRESIDENT complimented the honourable member on the excellent distinction he had drawn . 
SLUG then stated some curious calculations respecting the dogs' meat barrows of London . 
He found that the total number of small carts and barrows engaged in dispensing provision to the cats and dogs of the metropolis was , one thousand seven hundred and forty three . 
The average number of skewers delivered daily with the provender , by each dogs' meat cart or barrow , was thirty six . 
Now , multiplying the number of skewers so delivered by the number of barrows , a total of sixty two thousand seven hundred and forty eight skewers daily would be obtained . 
were either destitute of any rest for their legs at all , or passed the whole of their leisure time in sitting upon boxes . 
COACH HOUSE , ORIGINAL PIG . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Mr. Truck and Mr. Waghorn . 
'PROFESSOR QUEERSPECK exhibited an elegant model of a portable railway , neatly mounted in a green case , for the waistcoat pocket . 
'THE PRESIDENT was desirous of knowing whether it was necessary to have a level surface on which the gentleman was to run . 
'PROFESSOR QUEERSPECK explained that City gentlemen would run in trains , being handcuffed together to prevent confusion or unpleasantness . 
JOBBA produced a forcing machine on a novel plan , for bringing joint stock railway shares prematurely to a premium . 
Mr. Jobba stated that the machine had been in constant requisition for some months past , and he had never once known it to fail . 
'A Member expressed his opinion that it was extremely neat and pretty . 
could be preserved if they merely balanced themselves for a few minutes on the sill of their bedroom window , and got into the escape without falling into the street . 
The Professor stated that the number of boys who had been rescued in the daytime by this machine from houses which were not on fire , was almost incredible . 
'THE PRESIDENT inquired whether there was not some difficulty in ascertaining which was the top of the machine , and which the bottom , in cases of pressing emergency . 
It is needless to take a review of the subjects which have been discussed of the mode in which they have been examined of the great truths which they have elicited . 
They are now before the world , and we leave them to read , to consider , and to profit . 
We hope at this next meeting our correspondent may again be present , and that we may be once more the means of placing his communications before the world . 
We give this gentleman's correspondence entire , and in the order in which it reached our office . 
'SALOON OF STEAMER , THURSDAY NIGHT , HALF PAST EIGHT . 
'When I left New Burlington Street this evening in the hackney cabriolet , number four thousand two hundred and eighty five , I experienced sensations as novel as they were oppressive . 
I should infer from all I hear that he has got the steam up . 
Professor Woodensconce has taken the shelf above me , and Mr. Slug and Professor Grime the two shelves opposite . 
Their luggage has already arrived . 
On Mr. Slug's bed is a long tin tube of about three inches in diameter , carefully closed at both ends . 
What can this contain ? Some powerful instrument of a new construction , doubtless . 
I learn from this man that the different sections will be distributed at the Black Boy and Stomach ache , and the Boot jack and Countenance . 
, your readers will draw such conclusions as their different opinions may suggest . 
'I write down these remarks as they occur to me , or as the facts come to my knowledge , in order that my first impressions may lose nothing of their original vividness . 
I shall despatch them in small packets as opportunities arise . 
'Some dark object has just appeared upon the wharf . 
I think it is a travelling carriage . 
The passengers are pouring in every instant . 
Four omnibuses full have just arrived upon the wharf , and all is bustle and activity . 
The noise and confusion are very great . 
Cloths are laid in the cabins , and the steward is placing blue plates full of knobs of cheese at equal distances down the centre of the tables . 
He is a young man of exceedingly prepossessing appearance either dirty or a mulatto , but I think the former . 
I trust and hope that he may reach it in safety but the board he has to cross is narrow and slippery . 
Was that a splash ? Gracious powers ! 'I have just returned from the deck . 
The trunk is standing upon the extreme brink of the wharf , but the old gentleman is nowhere to be seen . 
The watchman is not sure whether he went down or not , but promises to drag for him the first thing to morrow morning . 
May his humane efforts prove successful ! 'Professor Nogo has this moment arrived with his nightcap on under his hat . 
He has ordered a glass of cold brandy and water , with a hard biscuit and a basin , and has gone straight to bed . 
Mr. Slug , who sleeps in the other top one , is unable to get out of his , and is to have his supper handed up by a boy . 
'As I anticipated , the knobs of cheese were provided for the passengers' supper , and are now in course of consumption . 
Your readers will be surprised to hear that Professor Woodensconce has abstained from cheese for eight years , although he takes butter in considerable quantities . 
Professor Grime having lost several teeth , is unable , I observe , to eat his crusts without previously soaking them in his bottled porter . 
How interesting are these peculiarities ! 'HALF PAST ELEVEN . 
'Professors Woodensconce and Grime , with a degree of good humour that delights us all , have just arranged to toss for a bottle of mulled port . 
There has been some discussion whether the payment should be decided by the first toss or the best out of three . 
Eventually the latter course has been determined on . 
I have backed that gentleman to the amount of eighteenpence . 
'Professor Grime has inadvertently tossed his half crown out of one of the cabin windows , and it has been arranged that the steward shall toss for him . 
Bets are offered on any side to any amount , but there are no takers . 
'Professor Woodensconce has just called woman but the coin having lodged in a beam , is a long time coming down again . 
The interest and suspense of this one moment are beyond anything that can be imagined . 
'The mulled port is smoking on the table before me , and Professor Grime has won . 
There is an exultation about Professor Grime incompatible , I fear , with true greatness . 
'I am writing in bed . 
The scene is indescribably solemn . 
With these exceptions , all is profound silence . 
'My curiosity has been within the last moment very much excited . 
What rare mechanical combination can be contained in that mysterious case ? It is evidently a profound secret to all . 
'The behaviour of Mr. Slug grows more and more mysterious . 
He has unscrewed the top of the tube , and now renews his observations upon his companions , evidently to make sure that he is wholly unobserved . 
He is clearly on the eve of some great experiment . 
Pray heaven that it be not a dangerous one but the interests of science must be promoted , and I am prepared for the worst . 
'He has produced a large pair of scissors , and drawn a roll of some substance , not unlike parchment in appearance , from the tin case . 
The experiment is about to begin . 
I must strain my eyes to the utmost , in the attempt to follow its minutest operation . 
Mr. Slug has cut it up into small portions , and is now sticking it over himself in every direction . 
I am assured that the scene which ensued baffles all description . 
There were one hundred and forty seven ladies in their respective berths at the time . 
He intends stating this very beautiful , though simple discovery , to the association . 
learnedly remarks , another great point of ingenuity about a steamer is , that it always carries a little storm with it . 
You can scarcely conceive how exciting the jerking pulsation of the ship becomes . 
It is a matter of positive difficulty to get to sleep . 
'FRIDAY AFTERNOON , SIX O'CLOCK . 
'I regret to inform you that Mr. Slug's plaster has proved of no avail . 
He is in great agony , but has applied several large , additional pieces notwithstanding . 
I fear the gravy soup for lunch was injudicious . 
We lost a great many passengers almost immediately afterwards . 
'I am again in bed . 
Anything so heart rending as Mr. Slug's sufferings it has never yet been my lot to witness . 
Such is the triumph of mind over matter . 
'Professor Grime is in bed , to all appearance quite well but he WILL eat , and it is disagreeable to see him . 
'You will be happy to learn that I have at length arrived here in safety . 
The town is excessively crowded , and all the private lodgings and hotels are filled with SAVANS of both sexes . 
The tremendous assemblage of intellect that one encounters in every street is in the last degree overwhelming . 
Nothing can exceed the fresh appearance of the saw dust with which the floors are sprinkled . 
The forms are of unplaned deal , and the general effect , as you can well imagine , is extremely beautiful . 
'The number and rapidity of the arrivals are quite bewildering . 
, Mr. Brown , Sir Hookham Snivey , and Professor Pumpkinskull . 
The ten last named gentlemen were wet through , and looked extremely intelligent . 
'SUNDAY , TWO O'CLOCK , P. M. 'The Honourable and Reverend Mr. Long Eers , accompanied by Sir William Joltered , walked and drove this morning . 
They accomplished the former feat in boots , and the latter in a hired fly . 
This has naturally given rise to much discussion . 
I forbear to communicate any of the rumours to which this very extraordinary proceeding has given rise until I have seen Sowster , and endeavoured to ascertain the truth from him . 
It is an uneven piece of paving , but has certainly no appearance which would lead one to suppose that any such event had recently occurred there . 
'Sowster is a fat man , with a more enlarged development of that peculiar conformation of countenance which is vulgarly termed a double chin than I remember to have ever seen before . 
I have yet to learn that a beadle can be called out by any civilian to exercise a domination and despotism over the boys of Britain . 
Picture which cannot be reproduced The under beadle has consented to write his life , but it is to be strictly anonymous . 
'The accompanying likeness is of course from the life , and complete in every respect . 
Even if I had been totally ignorant of the man's real character , and it had been placed before me without remark , I should have shuddered involuntarily . 
There is an intense malignity of expression in the features , and a baleful ferocity of purpose in the ruffian's eye , which appals and sickens . 
His whole air is rampant with cruelty , nor is the stomach less characteristic of his demoniac propensities . 
'The great day has at length arrived . 
I have neither eyes , nor ears , nor pens , nor ink , nor paper , for anything but the wonderful proceedings that have astounded my senses . 
Let me collect my energies and proceed to the account . 
'SECTION A. ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY . 
FRONT PARLOUR , BLACK BOY AND STOMACH ACHE . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Mr. Muddlebranes and Mr. Drawley . 
X. X. MISTY communicated some remarks on the disappearance of dancing bears from the streets of London , with observations on the exhibition of monkeys as connected with barrel organs . 
He regretted to add that a similar , and no less lamentable , change had taken place with reference to monkeys . 
being as one monkey to three organs . 
'PROFESSOR MULL doubted very much whether any correct ideas of natural history were propagated by the means to which the honourable member had so ably adverted . 
On the contrary , he believed that they had been the means of diffusing very incorrect and imperfect notions on the subject . 
'PROFESSOR PUMPKINSKULL wished to take that opportunity of calling the attention of the section to a most important and serious point . 
It was dreadful to reflect that our youth were so rapidly verging into a generation of bears . 
'After a scene of scientific enthusiasm it was resolved that this important question should be immediately submitted to the consideration of the council . 
He was given to understand that since that period they had supported themselves by lying in wait for and robbing blind men's poodles . 
'THE PRESIDENT wished to know what botanical definition the honourable gentleman could afford of the curiosity . 
FLUMMERY expressed his opinion that it was A DECIDED PLANT . 
'SECTION B. DISPLAY OF MODELS AND MECHANICAL SCIENCE . 
LARGE ROOM , BOOT JACK AND COUNTENANCE . 
The inventor remarked that it had been put into active operation in Fleet Street , the Strand , and other thoroughfares , and had never been once known to fail . 
Would the inventor be good enough to inform the section whether he had taken any and what means for bringing it into general operation ? 'MR . 
'THE PRESIDENT hoped that no such fanciful objections would be allowed to stand in the way of such a great public improvement . 
CRINKLES hoped so too but he feared that if the gentlemen of the swell mob persevered in their objection , nothing could be done . 
'PROFESSOR GRIME suggested , that surely , in that case , Her Majesty's Government might be prevailed upon to take it up . 
CRINKLES said , that if the objection were found to be insuperable he should apply to Parliament , which he thought could not fail to recognise the utility of the invention . 
His only fear was that the machine might be worn out by constant working . 
In short , every facility of enjoyment would be afforded that the most gentlemanly person could possibly desire . 
The charge for these amusements would amount to very little more than they already cost , and the inventor submitted that the public would be much benefited and comforted by the proposed arrangement . 
'PROFESSOR NOGO wished to be informed what amount of automaton police force it was proposed to raise in the first instance . 
COPPERNOSE replied , that it was proposed to begin with seven divisions of police of a score each , lettered from A to G inclusive . 
'THE PRESIDENT , awarding the utmost merit to the ingenious gentleman who had originated the idea , doubted whether the automaton police would quite answer the purpose . 
He feared that noblemen and gentlemen would perhaps require the excitement of thrashing living subjects . 
The great advantage would be , that a policeman's limbs might be all knocked off , and yet he would be in a condition to do duty next day . 
He might even give his evidence next morning with his head in his hand , and give it equally well . 
Will you allow me to ask you , sir , of what materials it is intended that the magistrates' heads shall be composed ? 'MR . 
The magistrates will have wooden heads of course , and they will be made of the toughest and thickest materials that can possibly be obtained . 
This is a great invention . 
I see but one objection to it . 
It appears to me that the magistrates ought to talk . 
On his return , 'MR . 
It was , he said , a most valuable and useful invention , based strictly upon the principle of the human eye . 
'THE PRESIDENT required some information upon this point . 
He had yet to learn that the human eye was remarkable for the peculiarities of which the honourable gentleman had spoken . 
He must know , too , with what quickness of perception most people could discover their neighbour's faults , and how very blind they were to their own . 
If the President differed from the great majority of men in this respect , his eye was a defective one , and it was to assist his vision that these glasses were made . 
BLANK exhibited a model of a fashionable annual , composed of copper plates , gold leaf , and silk boards , and worked entirely by milk and water . 
PROSEE , after examining the machine , declared it to be so ingeniously composed , that he was wholly unable to discover how it went on at all . 
Nobody can , and that is the beauty of it . 
'SECTION C. ANATOMY AND MEDICINE . 
BAR ROOM , BLACK BOY AND STOMACH ACHE . 
GRUMMIDGE stated to the section a most interesting case of monomania , and described the course of treatment he had pursued with perfect success . 
Finding her wish ungratified , she fell sick , and the symptoms soon became so alarming , that he was called in . 
The next day she was somewhat low , but decidedly better , and all appearances of irritation were removed . 
The next day she improved still further , and on the next again . 
From that moment she began to mend , and , in less than four and twenty hours was perfectly restored . 
She did not now betray the least emotion at the sight or mention of pearls or any other ornaments . 
She was cheerful and good humoured , and a most beneficial change had been effected in her whole temperament and condition . 
read a short but most interesting communication in which he sought to prove the complete belief of Sir William Courtenay , otherwise Thorn , recently shot at Canterbury , in the Homoeopathic system . 
, placed upon his tongue , after death , would restore him . 
As it was , if this woman , or any other person , had administered an infinitesimal dose of lead and gunpowder immediately after he fell , he would have recovered forthwith . 
OUT HOUSE , BLACK BOY AND STOMACH ACHE . 
It appeared from this table , that the amount of such income possessed by each was pounds , shillings , and pence , yielding an average of the same . 
'SUPPLEMENTARY SECTION , E. UMBUGOLOGY AND DITCHWATERISICS . 
, but that he always winked and whisked at the same time . 
The animal was lean , spavined , and tottering and the author proposed to constitute it of the family of FITFORDOGSMEATAURIOUS . 
It certainly did occur to him that there was no case on record of a pony with one clearly defined and distinct organ of vision , winking and whisking at the same moment . 
Order be blowed ! you've got the wrong un , I tell you . 
Let us take a slight example . 
The scene is a street an elderly gentleman , with a large face and strongly marked features , appears . 
His countenance beams with a sunny smile , and a perpetual dimple is on his broad , red cheek . 
He is evidently an opulent elderly gentleman , comfortable in circumstances , and well to do in the world . 
How the audience roar ! He is set upon by a noisy and officious crowd , who buffet and cuff him unmercifully . 
They scream with delight ! Every time the elderly gentleman struggles to get up , his relentless persecutors knock him down again . 
Is this like life ? Change the scene to any real street to the Stock Exchange , or the City banker's the merchant's counting house , or even the tradesman's shop . 
See any one of these men fall , the more suddenly , and the nearer the zenith of his pride and riches , the better . 
Why , it is the pantomime to the very letter . 
Of all the pantomimic DRAMATIS PERSONAE , we consider the pantaloon the most worthless and debauched . 
of his own indecorum and temerity continuing , nevertheless , to ogle and beckon to them from a distance in a very unpleasant and immoral manner . 
He hobbles away humming an opera tune , and twirling his cane to and fro , with affected carelessness . 
Suddenly he stops 'tis at the milliner's window . 
See ! he draws beside her . 
He coughs she turns away from him . 
He draws near her again she disregards him . 
She turns away with a flounce , and the old gentleman trots after her with a toothless chuckle . 
The pantaloon to the life ! But the close resemblance which the clowns of the stage bear to those of every day life is perfectly extraordinary . 
Some people talk with a sigh of the decline of pantomime , and murmur in low and dismal tones the name of Grimaldi . 
We mean no disparagement to the worthy and excellent old man when we say that this is downright nonsense . 
The dirty faced gentleman has hardly uttered the words , when he is interrupted by a young gentleman in no shirt collar and a Petersham coat . 
'No , no , says the young gentleman 'he means Brown , King , and Gibson , at the 'Delphi . 
Now it is a most remarkable fact that precisely this sort of thing occurs in real life day after day , and nobody sees the humour of it . 
Let us illustrate our position by detailing the plot of this portion of the pantomime not of the theatre , but of life . 
After various manoeuvres , the imposture is discovered , Fitz Fiercy and Do'em are recognized as confederates , and the police office to which they are both taken is thronged with their dupes . 
So we take it up again at once . 
We see it all , now . 
We sat opposite to one of these men at a supper table , only last week . 
We looked at the man across the table again and again and could not satisfy ourselves what race of beings to class him with . 
How very odd that this never occurred to us before ! We will frankly own that we have been much troubled with the harlequin . 
We see harlequins of so many kinds in the real living pantomime , that we hardly know which to select as the proper fellow of him of the theatres . 
When we remember how frequently this speech is made , immediately after THE CHANGE too , the parallel is quite perfect , and still more singular . 
Perhaps the cast of our political pantomime never was richer than at this day . 
We are particularly strong in clowns . 
These exhibitions are more curious than pleasing indeed , they are rather disgusting than otherwise , except to the admirers of such things , with whom we confess we have no fellow feeling . 
Strange tricks very strange tricks are also performed by the harlequin who holds for the time being the magic wand which we have just mentioned . 
SOME PARTICULARS CONCERNING A LION We have a great respect for lions in the abstract . 
In common with most other people , we have heard and read of many instances of their bravery and generosity . 
All this is extremely pleasant to reflect upon , and , indeed , says a very great deal in favour of lions as a mass . 
But we have seen some under the influence of captivity , and the pressure of misfortune and we must say that they appeared to us very apathetic , heavy headed fellows . 
The lion at the Zoological Gardens , for instance . 
These are pleasant characteristics , whereas we make it matter of distinct charge against the Zoological lion and his brethren at the fairs , that they are sleepy , dreamy , sluggish quadrupeds . 
We do not remember to have ever seen one of them perfectly awake , except at feeding time . 
In every respect we uphold the biped lions against their four footed namesakes , and we boldly challenge controversy upon the subject . 
We at once retracted our plea of a prior engagement , and became as anxious to go , as we had previously been to stay away . 
We went early , and posted ourselves in an eligible part of the drawing room , from whence we could hope to obtain a full view of the interesting animal . 
Two or three hours passed , the quadrilles began , the room filled but no lion appeared . 
Even the young man who had been ordered from the music shop to play the pianoforte was visibly affected , and struck several false notes in the excess of his excitement . 
was in SUCH cue to night ! The lion was a literary one . 
While the lion was exhibiting in this way , his keeper was not idle , for he mingled among the crowd , and spread his praises most industriously . 
Of course the keeper was there already . 
Boswell frequently presents a melancholy instance of the lamentable results of this achievement , and other keepers and jackals have been terribly lacerated for their daring . 
in the Green Dragon the other evening , and , being somewhat amused by the following conversation , preserved it . 
'Can you lend me a ten pound note till Christmas ? inquired the hairdresser of the stomach . 
'Where's your security , Mr. Clip ? 'My stock in trade , there's enough of it , I'm thinking , Mr. Thicknesse . 
Some fifty wigs , two poles , half a dozen head blocks , and a dead Bruin . 
'No , I won't , then , growled out Thicknesse . 
'I lends nothing on the security of the whigs or the Poles either . 
As for whigs , they're cheats as for the Poles , they've got no cash . 
, and a dead bear's about as much use to me as I could be to a dead bear . 
'But how d'ye mean , Mr. Clip ? 'Mean ! why , that it's got the HOTTERGRUFF of Pope . 
Steal not this book , for fear of hangman's rope For it belongs to Alexander Pope . 
All that's written on the inside of the binding of the book so , as my son says , we're BOUND to believe it . 
'Perhaps , sir , said Clip , a little flurried , 'you'll pay for the first upset afore you thinks of another . 
Don't think I'm proud on it , gentlemen others might be but I hate rank of any sort . 
I've no more respect for a Lord's footman than I have for any respectable tradesman in this room . 
I may say no more nor I have for Mr. Clip ! . 
Therefore , that ere Lord must have been born long after Pope died . 
And it's a logical interference to defer , that they neither of them lived at the same time . 
So what I mean is this here , that Pope never had no book , never seed , felt , never smelt no book as belonged to that ere Lord . 
I am not in the habit of paying compliments , gentlemen when I do , therefore , I hope I strikes with double force . 
'Ah , Mr. Murgatroyd ! what's all this about striking with double force ? said the object of the above remark , as he entered . 
'I never excuse a man's getting into a rage during winter , even when he's seated so close to the fire as you are . 
It is very injudicious to put yourself into such a perspiration . 
Mr. Bolton was a young man , with a somewhat sickly and very dissipated expression of countenance . 
His habiliments were composed of an exquisite union of gentility , slovenliness , assumption , simplicity , NEWNESS , and old age . 
Half of him was dressed for the winter , the other half for the summer . 
His hat was of the newest cut , the D'Orsay his trousers had been white , but the inroads of mud and ink , etc . 
His fingers peeped through the ends of his black kid gloves , and two of the toes of each foot took a similar view of society through the extremities of his high lows . 
Sacred to the bare walls of his garret be the mysteries of his interior dress ! He was a short , spare man , of a somewhat inferior deportment . 
Everybody seemed influenced by his entry into the room , and his salutation of each member partook of the patronizing . 
The hairdresser made way for him between himself and the stomach . 
A minute afterwards he had taken possession of his pint and pipe . 
A pause in the conversation took place . 
Everybody was waiting , anxious for his first observation . 
'Horrid murder in Westminster this morning , observed Mr. Bolton . 
All eyes were fixed upon the man of paragraphs . 
'A baker murdered his son by boiling him in a copper , said Mr. Bolton . 
'Good heavens ! exclaimed everybody , in simultaneous horror . 
'His victim , being his son , also was necessarily the son of a baker . 
Mrs. S. , connubially considerate , carried him in that condition up stairs into his chamber , and consigned him to their mutual couch . 
'The son came home about an hour afterwards , opened the door , and went up to bed . 
scared the silence of surrounding night . 
He put his indescribables on again , and ran down stairs . 
He opened the door of the parental bed chamber . 
His father was dancing upon his mother . 
What must have been his feelings ! In the agony of the minute he rushed at his male parent as he was about to plunge a knife into the side of his female . 
Where's my boy ? shrieked the mother . 
In that copper , boiling , coolly replied the benign father . 
'Struck by the awful intelligence , the mother rushed from the house , and alarmed the neighbourhood . 
The police entered a minute afterwards . 
The father , having bolted the wash house door , had bolted himself . 
They dragged the lifeless body of the boiled baker from the cauldron , and , with a promptitude commendable in men of their station , they immediately carried it to the station house . 
Subsequently , the baker was apprehended while seated on the top of a lamp post in Parliament Street , lighting his pipe . 
The whole horrible ideality of the Mysteries of Udolpho , condensed into the pithy effect of a ten line paragraph , could not possibly have so affected the narrator's auditory . 
without the liveliest satisfaction and delight . 
I had a melancholy instance of this only a week or two since . 
'In those dawning times , thought I , 'exhibition rooms shall teem with portraits of Her Majesty's favourite engine , with boilers after Nature by future Landseers . 
Some Amburgh , yet unborn , shall break wild horses by his magic power and in the dress of a mail coach guard exhibit his TRAINED ANIMALS in a mock mail coach . 
I offer no apology to you for the digression , for it brings me very naturally to the subject of change , which is the very subject of which I desire to treat . 
In fact , my child , you have changed hands . 
Unlike the driver of the old Manchester mail , I regard this altered state of things with feelings of unmingled pleasure and satisfaction . 
Unlike the guard of the new Manchester mail , YOUR guard is at home in his new place , and has roystering highwaymen and gallant desperadoes ever within call . 
This paper was written before the practice of exhibiting Members of Parliament , like other curiosities , for the small charge of half a crown , was abolished . 
Even the construction of the prison itself has been changed . 
These two men were executed shortly afterwards . 
The other was respited during his Majesty's pleasure . 
