Man's little Day in haste we spend , And , from its merry noontide , send No glance to meet the silent end . 
The 'march up' was a very curious sight Image . 
Hoo roah ! they cried , carefully keeping time with the hat as it bobbed up and down . 
Hoo roah ! Noo ! Consti ! Tooshun ! Less ! Bread ! More ! Taxes ! That'll do , that'll do ! the Chancellor whispered . 
Let 'em rest a bit till I give you the word . 
He's not here yet ! But at this moment the great folding doors of the saloon were flung open , and he turned with a guilty start to receive His High Excellency . 
However it was only Bruno , and the Chancellor gave a little gasp of relieved anxiety . 
Morning ! said the little fellow , addressing the remark , in a general sort of way , to the Chancellor and the waiters . 
Doos oo know where Sylvie is ? I's looking for Sylvie ! She's with the Warden , I believe , y'reince ! the Chancellor replied with a low bow . 
But the bow was lost upon Bruno , who had run out of the room , even while the great feat of The Unpronounceable Monosyllable was being triumphantly performed . 
Just then , a single voice in the distance was understood to shout A speech from the Chancellor ! Certainly , my friends ! the Chancellor replied with extraordinary promptitude . 
The Chancellor took it haughtily , drank it off thoughtfully , smiled benevolently on the happy waiter as he set down the empty glass , and began . 
To the best of my recollection this is what he said . 
that I always sympa he repeated . 
That I always sympathise ! yelled the Chancellor , the first moment there was silence . 
At this moment the Sub Warden entered the saloon . 
Bravo ! he cried , patting the Chancellor on the back . 
You did that speech very well indeed . 
Why , you're a born orator , man ! Oh , that's nothing ! the Chancellor replied , modestly , with downcast eyes . 
Most orators are born , you know . 
The Sub Warden thoughtfully rubbed his chin . 
Why , so they are ! he admitted . 
I never considered it in that light . 
Still , you did it very well . 
A word in your ear ! The rest of their conversation was all in whispers so , as I could hear no more , I thought I would go and find Bruno . 
Thither Bruno trotted , and I thought it well to follow him . 
She looked four or five years older than Bruno , but she had the same rosy cheeks and sparkling eyes , and the same wealth of curly brown hair . 
But he's a very early riser , and I dare say he's in the Library already . 
Come with me and see him . 
He's always kind to children . 
You'll be sure to like him . 
Has the Other Professor come too ? Bruno asked in an awe struck voice . 
Yes , they arrived together . 
The Other Professor is well , you won't like him quite so much , perhaps . 
He's a little more dreamy , you know . 
I wiss Sylvie was a little more dreamy , said Bruno . 
What do you mean , Bruno ? said Sylvie . 
Bruno went on addressing his father . 
She says she ca'n't , oo know . 
But I thinks it isn't ca'n't , it's wo'n't . 
Says she ca'n't dream ! the puzzled Warden repeated . 
She do say it , Bruno persisted . 
You won't learn much at that rate , little man ! That's just what Sylvie says , Bruno rejoined . 
She says I wo'n't learn my lessons . 
And I tells her , over and over , I ca'n't learn 'em . 
And what doos oo think she says ? She says 'It isn't ca'n't , it's wo'n't ! Let's go and see the Professor , the Warden said , wisely avoiding further discussion . 
The children got down off his knees , each secured a hand , and the happy trio set off for the Library followed by me . 
was in the least able to see me . 
Visiting the profesor What was the matter but I hope he's all right now was lumbago , and rheumatism , and that kind of thing . 
He's been curing himself , you know he's a very learned doctor . 
Why , he's actually invented three new diseases , besides a new way of breaking your collar bone ! Is it a nice way ? said Bruno . 
Well , hum , not very , the Warden said , as we entered the Library . 
And here is the Professor . 
Do you happen to have seen it ? You don't see my children , Professor ! the Warden exclaimed , taking him by the shoulders and turning him round to face them . 
The Professor laughed violently then he gazed at them through his great spectacles , for a minute or two , without speaking . 
At last he addressed Bruno . 
I hope you have had a good night , my child ? Bruno looked puzzled . 
I's had the same night oo've had , he replied . 
There's only been one night since yesterday ! It was the Professor's turn to look puzzled now . 
He took off his spectacles , and rubbed them with his handkerchief . 
Then he gazed at them again . 
Then he turned to the Warden . 
Are they bound ? he enquired . 
No , we aren't , said Bruno , who thought himself quite able to answer this question . 
The Professor shook his head sadly . 
Not even half bound ? Why would we be half bound ? said Bruno . 
We're not prisoners ! But the Professor had forgotten all about them by this time , and was speaking to the Warden again . 
Only he thinks it affects the weather . 
He's a wonderfully clever man , you know . 
Sometimes he says things that only the Other Professor can understand . 
Sometimes he says things that nobody can understand ! Which way is it , Professor ? Up or down ? Neither ! said the Professor , gently clapping his hands . 
It's going sideways if I may so express myself . 
And what kind of weather does that produce ? said the Warden . 
Isn't he learned ? the Warden said , looking after him with admiring eyes . 
Positively he runs over with learning ! But he needn't run over me ! said Bruno . 
I thought you'd like to see them , he said . 
These are the boots for horizontal weather ! Image . 
Boots for horizontal weather But what's the use of wearing umbrellas round one's knees ? In ordinary rain , the Professor admitted , they would not be of much use . 
But if ever it rained horizontally , you know , they would be invaluable simply invaluable ! Take the Professor to the breakfast saloon , children , said the Warden . 
And tell them not to wait for me . 
I had breakfast early , as I've some business to attend to . 
The children seized the Professor's hands , as familiarly as if they had known him for years , and hurried him away . 
As we entered the breakfast saloon , the Professor was saying and he had breakfast by himself , early so he begged you wouldn't wait for him , my Lady . 
most superfluous politeness , he flung open the door of my compartment , and ushered in a young and lovely lady ! I muttered to myself with some bitterness . 
And this is , of course , the opening scene of Vol . 
I. She is the Heroine . 
proclaimed that we were once more speeding on our way . 
I looked round cautiously , and was entirely disappointed of my hope . 
P. S. Do you believe in Fate ? This Postscript puzzled me sorely . 
He is far too sensible a man , I thought , to have become a Fatalist . 
And yet what else can he mean by it ? And , as I folded up the letter and put it away , I inadvertently repeated the words aloud . 
Do you believe in Fate ? The fair 'Incognita' turned her head quickly at the sudden question . 
No , I don't ! she said with a smile . 
Do you ? I I didn't mean to ask the question ! I stammered , a little taken aback at having begun a conversation in so unconventional a fashion . 
The lady's smile became a laugh not a mocking laugh , but the laugh of a happy child who is perfectly at her ease . 
Didn't you ? she said . 
Then it was a case of what you Doctors call 'unconscious cerebration' ? I am no Doctor , I replied . 
One needn't be a Doctor , I said , to take an interest in medical books . 
There's another class of readers , who are yet more deeply interested You mean the Patients ? she interrupted , while a look of tender pity gave new sweetness to her face . 
But , with an evident wish to avoid a possibly painful topic , one needn't be either , to take an interest in books of Science . 
And I considered a minute before replying . 
If you mean living minds , I don't think it's possible to decide . 
There is so much written Science that no living person has ever read and there is so much thought out Science that hasn't yet been written . 
But , if you mean the whole human race , then I think the minds have it everything , recorded in books , must have once been in some mind , you know . 
Isn't that rather like one of the Rules in Algebra ? my Lady enquired . 
So we should have to erase every recorded thought , except in the sentence where it is expressed with the greatest intensity . 
Some books would be reduced to blank paper , I'm afraid ! she said . 
Most libraries would be terribly diminished in bulk . 
But just think what they would gain in quality ! When will it be done ? she eagerly asked . 
Uggug , my pet , come and sit by me ! Anywhere but by me ! growled the Sub warden . 
Sylvie and Bruno , with the Lord Chancellor , made up a party of seven . 
A portable plunge bath And you actually got a plunge bath every morning ? said the Sub Warden , seemingly in continuation of a conversation with the Professor . 
Even at the little roadside inns ? Oh , certainly , certainly ! the Professor replied with a smile on his jolly face . 
It is , in fact , a very simple problem in Hydrodynamics . 
about to plunge into it , we have a perfect example of this science . 
I am bound to admit , the Professor continued , in a lower tone and with downcast eyes , that we need a man of remarkable strength . 
He must be able to spring from the floor to about twice his own height , gradually turning over as he rises , so as to come down again head first . 
Why , you need a flea , not a man ! exclaimed the Sub Warden . 
Pardon me , said the Professor . 
This particular kind of bath is not adapted for a flea . 
Let us suppose , he continued , folding his table napkin into a graceful festoon , that this represents what is perhaps the necessity of this Age the Active Tourist's Portable Bath . 
The A. T. hangs up the P. B. on a nail thus . 
And there he is on the floor again ! A little bruised , perhaps ? Well , yes , a little bruised but having had his plunge bath that's the great thing . 
Wonderful ! It's almost beyond belief ! murmured the Sub Warden . 
The Professor took it as a compliment , and bowed with a gratified smile . 
Quite beyond belief ! my Lady added meaning , no doubt , to be more complimentary still . 
The Professor bowed , but he didn't smile this time . 
I can assure you , he said earnestly , that , provided the bath was made , I used it every morning . 
I certainly ordered it that I am clear about my only doubt is , whether the man ever finished making it . 
It's my brother ! the Sub warden exclaimed , in a warning whisper . 
He couldn't have heard you . 
The Lord Chancellor recovered himself with a great effort , and pointed to the open window . 
you will understand what it is they want . 
And at that moment there surged into the room a hoarse confused cry , in which the only clearly audible words were Less bread More taxes ! The old man laughed heartily . 
What in the world he was beginning but the Chancellor heard him not . 
Some mistake ! he muttered , hurrying to the window , from which he shortly returned with an air of relief . 
Now listen ! he exclaimed , holding up his hand impressively . 
And now the words came quite distinctly , and with the regularity of the ticking of a clock , More bread Less taxes ! More bread ! the Warden repeated in astonishment . 
Yes , yes , I see ! the Warden muttered , glancing carelessly through them . 
Order countermanded by my brother , and supposed to be my doing ! Rather sharp practice ! It's all right ! he added in a louder tone . 
My name is signed to it so I take it on myself . 
I accept it as my doing . 
He would distinguish himself as a Vice ! my Lady proceeded , being far too stupid to see the double meaning of her words . 
There has been no such Vice in Outland for many a long year , as he would be ! What course would you suggest , Sister ? the Warden mildly enquired . 
My Lady stamped , which was undignified and snorted , which was ungraceful . 
This is no jesting matter ! she bellowed . 
I will consult my brother , said the Warden . 
Brother ! and seven makes a hundred and ninety four , which is sixteen and two pence , the Sub Warden replied . 
Put down two and carry sixteen . 
The Chancellor raised his hands and eyebrows , lost in admiration . 
Such a man of business ! he murmured . 
Brother , could I have a word with you in my Study ? the Warden said in a louder tone . 
The Sub Warden rose with alacrity , and the two left the room together . 
My Lady turned to the Professor , who had uncovered the urn , and was taking its temperature with his pocket thermometer . 
Professor ! she began , so loudly and suddenly that even Uggug , who had gone to sleep in his chair , left off snoring and opened one eye . 
I was very forcibly struck by His Magnificence , I assure you ! He is a charming boy ! my Lady exclaimed . 
And he's so clever ! my Lady continued . 
Of course you will let the Other Professor lecture as well ? I think not , my Lady ? the Professor said with some hesitation . 
You see , he always stands with his back to the audience . 
It does very well for reciting but for lecturing You are quite right , said my Lady . 
And , now I come to think of it , there would hardly be time for more than one Lecture . 
And it will go off all the better , if we begin with a Banquet , and a Fancy dress Ball It will indeed ! the Professor cried , with enthusiasm . 
I shall come as a Grass hopper , my Lady calmly proceeded . 
What shall you come as , Professor ? The Professor smiled feebly . 
I shall come as as early as I can , my Lady ! You mustn't come in before the doors are opened , said my Lady . 
I ca'n't , said the Professor . 
As this is Lady Sylvie's birthday , I would like to and he rushed away . 
He had hardly done so before the Professor was back again , quite out of breath . 
Wishing you many happy returns of the day , my dear child ! he went on , addressing the smiling little girl , who had run to meet him . 
Allow me to give you a birthday present . 
It's a second hand pincushion , my dear . 
And it only cost fourpence halfpenny ! Thank you , it's very pretty ! And Sylvie rewarded the old man with a hearty kiss . 
And the pins they gave me for nothing ! the Professor added in high glee . 
Fifteen of 'em , and only one bent ! I'll make the bent one into a hook ! said Sylvie . 
No , I ca'n't guess , Sylvie said without looking up . 
She was still examining the Professor's pincushion . 
My darling ! cried his mother , enfolding him in her fat arms . 
Did they box his ears for nothing ? A precious pet ! It's not for nothing ! growled the angry father . 
But there was something in her look which silenced him . 
He walked across to the window . 
as if he was quite used to that sort of thing , he ran up to Sylvie and threw his arms round her . 
Oh , thank you , darling ! cried Sylvie . 
His Sub Excellency turned and patted the two children on the head with his long lean hands . 
Go away , dears ! he said . 
There's business to talk over . 
Sylvie and Bruno went away hand in hand but , on reaching the door , Sylvie came back again and went up to Uggug timidly . 
Sylvie left the room with a sigh . 
The Sub Warden glared angrily at his weeping son . 
Leave the room , Sirrah ! he said , as loud as he dared . 
What is that hideous noise ? she fiercely asked , turning upon her startled husband . 
It's some hyaena or other , replied the Sub Warden , looking vaguely up to the ceiling , as if that was where they usually were to be found . 
Let us to business , my dear . 
But where is my precious child ? my Lady enquired , as the four took their seats at the small side table devoted to ledgers and bundles and bills . 
He left the room a few minutes ago with the Lord Chancellor , the Sub Warden briefly explained . 
Ah ! said my Lady , graciously smiling on that high official . 
The Chancellor bowed , but with a very uneasy air . 
I think the Warden was about to speak , he remarked , evidently anxious to change the subject . 
But my Lady would not be checked . 
He is a clever boy , she continued with enthusiasm , but he needs a man like your Lordship to draw him out ! The Chancellor bit his lip , and was silent . 
He evidently feared that , stupid as she looked , she understood what she said this time , and was having a joke at his expense . 
He might have spared himself all anxiety whatever accidental meaning her words might have , she herself never meant anything at all . 
It is all settled ! the Warden announced , wasting no time over preliminaries . 
The Sub Wardenship is abolished , and my brother is appointed to act as Vice Warden whenever I am absent . 
So , as I am going abroad for a while , he will enter on his new duties at once . 
And there will really be a Vice after all ? my Lady enquired . 
I hope so ! the Warden smilingly replied . 
My Lady looked much pleased , and tried to clap her hands but you might as well have knocked two feather beds together , for any noise it made . 
When my husband is Vice , she said , it will be the same as if we had a hundred Vices ! Hear , hear ! cried the Sub Warden . 
Nothing is remarkable that you say , sweet one ! My Lady smiled approval of the sentiment , and went on . 
And am I Vice Wardeness ? If you choose to use that title , said the Warden but 'Your Excellency' will be the proper style of address . 
And I trust that both 'His Excellency' and 'Her Excellency' will observe the Agreement I have drawn up . 
The provision I am most anxious about is this . 
He unrolled a large parchment scroll , and read aloud the words 'item , that we will be kind to the poor . 
The Chancellor worded it for me , he added , glancing at that great Functionary . 
I suppose , now , that word 'item' has some deep legal meaning ? Undoubtedly ! replied the Chancellor , as articulately as he could with a pen between his lips . 
He was nervously rolling and unrolling several other scrolls , and making room among them for the one the Warden had just handed to him . 
Should it not be read out , first ? my Lady enquired . 
No need , no need ! the Sub Warden and the Chancellor exclaimed at the same moment , with feverish eagerness . 
No need at all , the Warden gently assented . 
Your husband and I have gone through it together . 
He then signed it himself , and my Lady and the Chancellor added their names as witnesses . 
Short partings are best , said the Warden . 
All is ready for my journey . 
My children are waiting below to see me off He gravely kissed my Lady , shook hands with his brother and the Chancellor , and left the room . 
What a game , oh , what a game ! cried the Chancellor . 
And he and the Vice Warden joined hands , and skipped wildly about the room . 
You said I should hear all about it when the Warden had gone , she remarked , as soon as she could make herself heard . 
And so you shall , Tabby ! her husband graciously replied , as he removed the blotting paper , and showed the two parchments lying side by side . 
'Item , that he shall exercise the authority of Warden , in the Warden's absence . 
Why , that's been changed into 'shall be absolute governor for life , with the title of Emperor , if elected to that office by the people . 
What ! Are you Emperor , darling ? Not yet , dear , the Vice Warden replied . 
It won't do to let this paper be seen , just at present . 
My Lady nodded , and read on . 
'Item , that we will be kind to the poor . 
Why , that's omitted altogether ! Course it is ! said her husband . 
We're not going to bother about the wretches ! Good , said my Lady , with emphasis , and read on again . 
'Item , that the contents of the Treasury be preserved intact . 
You see the public mind isn't quite ripe for it yet . 
We must feel our way . 
Of course we'll have the coach and four out , at once . 
And I'll take the title of Emperor , as soon as we can safely hold an Election . 
But they'll hardly stand our using the Jewels , as long as they know the Warden's alive . 
We must spread a report of his death . 
A little Conspiracy A Conspiracy ! cried the delighted lady , clapping her hands . 
Of all things , I do like a Conspiracy ! It's so interesting ! The Vice Warden and the Chancellor interchanged a wink or two . 
Let her conspire to her heart's content ! the cunning Chancellor whispered . 
Mustn't cry like that ! the Vice Warden said sharply , but without any effect on the weeping children . 
Cheer 'em up a bit ! he hinted to my Lady . 
Cake ! my Lady muttered to herself with great decision , crossing the room and opening a cupboard , from which she presently returned with two slices of plum cake . 
Eat , and don't cry ! were her short and simple orders and the poor children sat down side by side , but seemed in no mood for eating . 
It's all right , he said , in a low voice the servants have their orders . 
He's just under here , said Uggug , who had gone to the window , and was looking down into the court yard . 
Where , my darling ? said his fond mother , flinging her arms round the neck of the little monster . 
followed her to the window . 
The old Beggar looked up at us with hungry eyes . 
Only a crust of bread , your Highness ! he pleaded . 
'Drink this ! He was a fine old man , but looked sadly ill and worn . 
A crust of bread is what I crave ! he repeated . 
A single crust , and a little water ! Here's some water , drink this ! Uggug bellowed , emptying a jug of water over his head . 
Well done , my boy ! cried the Vice Warden . 
That's the way to settle such folk ! Clever boy ! , the Wardeness chimed in . 
Hasn't he good spirits ? Take a stick to him ! shouted the Vice Warden , as the old Beggar shook the water from his ragged cloak , and again gazed meekly upwards . 
Take a red hot poker to him ! my Lady again chimed in . 
Possibly there was no red hot poker handy but some sticks were forthcoming in a moment , and threatening faces surrounded the poor old wanderer , who waved them back with quiet dignity . 
No need to break my old bones , he said . 
Not even a crust ! Poor , poor old man ! exclaimed a little voice at my side , half choked with sobs . 
Bruno was at the window , trying to throw out his slice of plum cake , but Sylvie held him back . 
He shalt have my cake ! Bruno cried , passionately struggling out of Sylvie's arms . 
Yes , yes , darling ! Sylvie gently pleaded . 
But don't throw it out ! He's gone away , don't you see ? Let's go after him . 
And she led him out of the room , unnoticed by the rest of the party , who were wholly absorbed in watching the old Beggar . 
The Conspirators returned to their seats , and continued their conversation in an undertone , so as not to be heard by Uggug , who was still standing at the window . 
By the way , there was something about Bruno succeeding to the Wrardenship , said my Lady . 
How does that stand in the new Agreement ? The Chancellor chuckled . 
Just the same , word for word , he said , with one exception , my Lady . 
I have no idea what I said . 
You said 'Uggug indeed ! the young lady replied , with quivering lips that would curve themselves into a smile , in spite of all her efforts to look grave . 
At least you didn't say it you shouted it ! I'm very sorry , was all I could say , feeling very penitent and helpless . 
She has Sylvie's eyes ! I thought to myself , half doubting whether , even now , I were fairly awake . 
And that sweet look of innocent wonder is all Sylvie's too . 
But really with only a medical treatise , you know and she glanced , with a pretty shrug of contempt , at the book over which I had fallen asleep . 
Even so , I mused , will Sylvie look and speak , in another ten years . 
You don't care for Ghosts , then , I ventured to suggest , unless they are really terrifying ? Quite so , the lady assented . 
The regular Railway Ghosts I mean the Ghosts of ordinary Railway literature are very poor affairs . 
I feel inclined to say , with Alexander Selkirk , 'Their tameness is shocking to me' ! And they never do any Midnight Murders . 
They couldn't 'welter in gore , to save their lives ! 'Weltering in gore' is a very expressive phrase , certainly . 
Can it be done in any fluid , I wonder ? I think not , the lady readily replied quite as if she had thought it out , long ago . 
It has to be something thick . 
For instance , you might welter in bread sauce . 
That , being white , would be more suitable for a Ghost , supposing it wished to welter ! You have a real good terrifying Ghost in that book ? I hinted . 
How could you guess ? she exclaimed with the most engaging frankness , and placed the volume in my hands . 
It was a book of Domestic Cookery , open at the article Bread Sauce . 
I returned the book , looking , I suppose , a little blank , as the lady laughed merrily at my discomfiture . 
It was a perfectly flavourless Ghost . 
Yes , yes , he does ! she cried . 
Come , you be off ! the Station master roughly accosted the poor old man . 
You be off , and make way for your betters ! This way , my Lady ! he added in a perfectly different tone . 
If your Ladyship will take a seat , the train will be up in a few minutes . 
'Come , you be off ! But the lady scarcely noticed the little incident . 
After one glance at the 'banished man , who stood tremulously leaning on his stick , she turned to me . 
perturbed Spirit ! I finished the sentence for her . 
She paused , before following him , to watch the progress of the other passenger . 
Poor old man ! she said . 
How weak and ill he looks ! It was a shame to let him be turned away like that . 
I'm very sorry At this moment it dawned on me that these words were not addressed to me , but that she was unconsciously thinking aloud . 
I moved away a few steps , and waited to follow her into the carriage , where I resumed the conversation . 
Shakespeare must have traveled by rail , if only in a dream 'perturbed Spirit' is such a happy phrase . 
'Perturbed' referring , no doubt , she rejoined , to the sensational booklets peculiar to the Rail . 
If Steam has done nothing else , it has at least added a whole new Species to English Literature ! No doubt of it , I echoed . 
The true origin of all our medical books and all our cookery books No , no ! she broke in merrily . 
I didn't mean our Literature ! We are quite abnormal . 
A development worthy of Darwin ! , the lady exclaimed enthusiastically . 
Only you reverse his theory . 
Sylvie and Bruno waited patiently till the end of the first verse . 
and timidly introduced herself with the words Please , I'm Sylvie ! And who's that other thing ? , said the Gardener . 
What thing ? said Sylvie , looking round . 
Was he your brother yesterday ? the Gardener anxiously enquired . 
Course I were ! cried Bruno , who had gradually crept nearer , and didn't at all like being talked about without having his share in the conversation . 
Ah , well ! the Gardener said with a kind of groan . 
Things change so , here . 
It's as bad as being a worm ! he added , in an undertone to Sylvie . 
But you shouldn't be lazy in the morning , Bruno , said Sylvie . 
Remember , it's the early bird that picks up the worm ! It may , if it likes ! Bruno said with a slight yawn . 
I don't like eating worms , one bit . 
I always stop in bed till the early bird has picked them up ! I wonder you've the face to tell me such fibs ! cried the Gardener . 
To which Bruno wisely replied Oo don't want a face to tell fibs wiz only a mouf . 
Sylvie discreetly changed the subject . 
And did you plant all these flowers ? she said . 
What a lovely garden you've made ! Do you know , I'd like to live here always ! In the winter nights the Gardener was beginning . 
But I'd nearly forgotten what we came about ! Sylvie interrupted . 
How much are it wurf ? Bruno innocently enquired . 
But the Gardener only grinned . 
That's a secret ! he said . 
Mind you come back quick ! he called after the children , as they passed out into the road . 
I had just time to follow them , before he shut the door again . 
Lightly and swiftly they skimmed over the ground , and I could not in the least understand how it was I kept up with them so easily . 
But the unsolved problem did not worry me so much as at another time it might have done , there were so many other things to attend to . 
There is no more ! , Sylvie said with tears in her eyes . 
It was a shame to let you be turned away like that . 
When the bush had sunk quite out of our sight , marble steps were seen , leading downwards into darkness . 
The old man led the way , and we eagerly followed . 
It was eight sided , having in each angle a slender pillar , round which silken draperies were twined . 
Higher up , each wall contained a circular window of coloured glass and over all was an arched roof , that seemed to be spangled all over with jewels . 
We are safe here , my darlings ! said the old man , laying a hand on Sylvie's shoulder , and bending down to kiss her . 
Sylvie drew back hastily , with an offended air but in another moment , with a glad cry of Why , it's Father ! , she had run into his arms . 
Where are we , father ? Sylvie whispered , with her arms twined closely around the old man's neck , and with her rosy cheek lovingly pressed to his . 
It's one of the provinces of Fairyland . 
But I thought Elfland was ever so far from Outland and we've come such a tiny little way ! You came by the Royal Road , sweet one . 
Only those of royal blood can travel along it but you've been royal ever since I was made King of Elfland that's nearly a month ago . 
They sent two ambassadors , to make sure that their invitation to me , to be their new King , should reach me . 
Then how far have we come ? Sylvie enquired . 
Just a thousand miles , sweet one , since the Gardener unlocked that door for you . 
A thousand miles ! Bruno repeated . 
And may I eat one ? Eat a mile , little rogue ? No , said Bruno . 
He ate it with beaming looks , that became gradually more gloomy , and were very blank indeed by the time he had finished . 
It hasn't got no taste at all ! he complained . 
I couldn't feel nuffin in my mouf ! It's a what's that hard word , Sylvie ? It was a Phlizz , Sylvie gravely replied . 
Are they all like that , father ? They're all like that to you , darling , because you don't belong to Elfland yet . 
But to me they are real . 
I'll try anuvver kind of fruits ! he said , and jumped down off the King's knee . 
There's some lovely striped ones , just like a rainbow ! And off he ran . 
I tried to pick so me myself but it was like grasping air , and I soon gave up the attempt and returned to Sylvie . 
Look well at it , my darling , the old man was saying , and tell me how you like it . 
'It's just lovely , cried Sylvie , delightedly . 
It are welly pretty , Bruno more soberly remarked and he began spelling out some words inscribed on it . 
All will love Sylvie , he made them out at last . 
And so they doos ! he cried , clasping his arms round her neck . 
Everybody loves Sylvie ! But we love her best , don't we , Bruno ? said the old King , as he took possession of the Locket . 
Now , Sylvie , look at this . 
Lovelier and lovelier ! exclaimed Sylvie , clasping her hands in ecstasy . 
Look , Bruno ! And there's words on this one , too , said Bruno . 
Now you see the difference , said the old man different colours and different words . 
Choose one of them , darling . 
I'll give you which ever you like best . 
The crimson locket Sylvie whispered the words , several times over , with a thoughtful smile , and then made her decision . 
Then he undid the chain , and showed her how to fasten it round her neck , and to hide it away under the edge of her frock . 
It's for you to keep you know he said in a low voice , not for other people to see . 
You'll remember how to use it ? Yes , I'll remember , said Sylvie . 
'Unless you leave this house , he said , 'I'll send for the Police ! Image . 
'He thought he saw a buffalo' That was me ! he added , looking out at us , through the half opened door , as we stood waiting in the road . 
And that's what I'd have done as sure as potatoes aren't radishes if she hadn't have tooken herself off ! But I always loves my pay rints like anything . 
Who are oor pay rints ? said Bruno . 
Them as pay rint for me , a course ! the Gardener replied . 
You can come in now , if you like . 
at the sudden transition from the half darkness of the railway carriage to the brilliantly lighted platform of Elveston Station . 
A footman , in a handsome livery , came forwards and respectfully touched his hat . 
Little , as you see , but quite enough for us two . 
I prescribe Ozone , quant . 
Social dissipation , fiant pilulae quam plurimae to be taken , feasting , three times a day ! But , Doctor ! I remonstrated . 
Society doesn't 'receive' three times a day ! That's all you know about it ! the young Doctor gaily replied . 
At home , lawn tennis , P. M. At home , kettledrum , P. M. At home , music , P. M. Carriages at . 
There you are ! It sounded very pleasant , I was obliged to admit . 
And I know some of the lady society already , I added . 
One of them came in the same carriage with me What was she like ? Then perhaps I can identify her . 
The name was Lady Muriel Orme . 
As to what she was like well , I thought her very beautiful . 
Do you know her ? Yes I do know her . 
And the grave Doctor coloured slightly as he added Yes , I agree with you . 
I quite lost my heart to her ! I went on mischievously . 
We talked Have some supper ! Arthur interrupted with an air of relief , as the maid entered with the tray . 
And he steadily resisted all my attempts to return to the subject of Lady Muriel until the evening had almost worn itself away . 
Then , as we sat gazing into the fire , and conversation was lapsing into silence , he made a hurried confession . 
till you had seen more of her , and formed your own judgment of her but somehow you surprised it out of me . 
And I've not breathed a word of it to any one else . 
But I can trust you with a secret , old friend ! Yes ! It's true of me , what I suppose you said in jest . 
In the merest jest , believe me ! I said earnestly . 
Let's hear that bit of the letter again , said my Lady . 
But what's the difficulty ? said my Lady . 
If you can manage that , you may leave the rest to me . 
I'll make him believe Uggug to be a model of cleverness and all that . 
We must change his name to Bruno , of course ? said my Lady . 
The Vice Warden rubbed his chin . 
Humph ! No ! he said musingly . 
The boy's such an utter idiot , he'd never learn to answer to it . 
Idiot , indeed ! cried my Lady . 
He's no more an idiot than I am ! You're right , my dear , the Vice Warden soothingly I replied . 
He isn't , indeed ! My Lady was appeased . 
Let's go in and receive the Ambassador , she said , and beckoned to the Professor . 
Which room is he waiting in ? she inquired . 
In the Library , Madam . 
And what did you say his name was ? said the Vice Warden . 
The Professor referred to a card he held in his hand . 
His Adiposity the Baron Doppelgeist . 
Why does he come with such a funny name ? said my Lady . 
He couldn't well change it on the journey , the Professor meekly replied , because of the luggage . 
You go and receive him , my Lady said to the Vice Warden , and I'll attend to the children . 
I was following the Vice Warden , but , on second thoughts , went after my Lady , being curious to see how she would manage to keep the children out of sight . 
I found her holding Sylvie's hand , and with her other hand stroking Bruno's hair in a most tender and motherly fashion both children were looking bewildered and half frightened . 
That are nice ! he cried . 
Aren't it , Sylvie ? Sylvie , who hadn't quite lost her surprised look , put up her mouth for a kiss . 
Thank you very much , she said earnestly . 
My Lady turned her head away to conceal the broad grin of triumph that spread over her vast face , like a ripple on a lake . 
Little simpletons ! she muttered to herself , as she marched up to the house . 
Quite so , your Excellency , the Baron was saying as we entered the Library . 
All the infantry were under my command . 
He turned , and was duly presented to my Lady . 
A military hero ? said my Lady . 
The fat little man simpered . 
Well , yes , he replied , modestly casting down his eyes . 
My ancestors were all famous for military genius . 
It often runs in families , she remarked just as a love for pastry does . 
The Baron looked slightly offended , and the Vice Warden discreetly changed the subject . 
Dinner will soon be ready , he said . 
May I have the honour of conducting your Adiposity to the guest chamber ? Certainly , certainly ! the Baron eagerly assented . 
It would never do to keep dinner waiting ! And he almost trotted out of the room after the Vice Warden . 
He was back again so speedily that the Vice warden had barely time to explain to my Lady that her remark about a love for pastry was unfortunate . 
You might have seen , with half an eye , he added , that that's his line . 
Military genius , indeed ! Pooh ! Dinner ready yet ? the Baron enquired , as he hurried into the room . 
Will be in a few minutes , the Vice Warden replied . 
Meanwhile , let's take a turn in the garden . 
It's only the Gardener ! the Vice Warden replied in an encouraging tone . 
Quite harmless , I assure you . 
Hark , he's singing ! Its his favorite amusement . 
I never means nothing , said the Gardener and Uggug luckily came up at the moment , and gave the conversation a new turn . 
He knows everything that other boys don't know and in archery , in fishing , in painting , and in music , his skill is but you shall judge for yourself . 
You see that target over there ? He shall shoot an arrow at it . 
Dear boy , he went on aloud , his Adiposity would like to see you shoot . 
Bring his Highness' bow and arrows ! Uggug looked very sulky as he received the bow and arrow , and prepared to shoot . 
Just as the arrow left the bow , the Vice Warden trod heavily on the toe of the Baron , who yelled with the pain . 
Ten thousand pardons ! he exclaimed . 
I stepped back in my excitement . 
See ! It is a bull's eye ! The Baron gazed in astonishment . 
He held the bow so awkwardly , it seemed impossible ! he muttered . 
But there was no room for doubt there was the arrow , right in the centre of the bull's eye ! The lake is close by , continued the Vice warden . 
Bring his Highness' fishing rod ! And Uggug most unwillingly held the rod , and dangled the fly over the water . 
A beetle on your arm ! cried my Lady , pinching the poor Baron's arm worse than if ten lobsters had seized it at once . 
That kind is poisonous , she explained . 
But what a pity ! You missed seeing the fish pulled out ! An enormous dead cod fish was lying on the bank , with the hook in its mouth . 
I had always fancied , the Baron faltered , that cod were salt water fish ? Not in this country , said the Vice Warden . 
Shall we go in ? Ask my son some question on the way any subject you like ! And the sulky boy was violently shoved forwards , to walk at the Baron's side . 
So sorry ! my Lady exclaimed , as she and her husband helped him to his feet again . 
However , when they had got him into the house , and given him a good brushing , matters looked a little better . 
So fond of Natural History as he is , dear boy ! said the doting mother . 
Now do tell us , Baron , what you think of him ! To be perfectly candid , said the cautious Baron , I would like a little more evidence . 
I think you mentioned his skill in Music ? said the Vice Warden . 
Why , he's simply a prodigy ! You shall hear him play the piano ? And he walked to the window . 
Ug I mean my boy ! Come in for a minute , and bring the music master with you ! To turn over the music for him , he added as an explanation . 
His Highness haf not the music master began , but was sharply stopped by the Vice warden . 
Silence , Sir ! Go and turn over the music for his Highness . 
He eats like a shark ! It would hardly do for me to mention it . 
His wife caught the idea , and at once began giving hints of the most subtle and delicate kind . 
It took me a full month to come , he said . 
But it's ever so much shorter , going back , you know ! The Baron looked appealingly to the Vice warden , who chimed in readily . 
The Baron could not help admitting to himself that it was being magnificently played but he tried in vain to get a glimpse of the youthful performer . 
He gave in at last , wished a hasty good night , and left the room , while his host and hostess interchanged looks of triumph . 
Deftly done ! cried the Vice Warden . 
She peeped through the window curtains . 
The Baron's carriage has come round ! she groaned . 
A RIDE ON A LION . 
Some desperate paradox ! said the Earl . 
Tell us how it could be . 
We shall never guess it . 
Of course though it might take some centuries to do it . 
And is five o'clock tea to be going on all the while ? said Lady Muriel . 
That , and other things , said Arthur . 
The inhabitants would live their lives , grow up and die , and still the house would be falling , falling , falling ! But now as to the relative weight of things . 
Nothing can be heavy , you know , except by trying to fall , and being prevented from doing so . 
You all grant that ? We all granted that . 
Well , now , if I take this book , and hold it out at arm's length , of course I feel its weight . 
It is trying to fall , and I prevent it . 
And , if I let go , it fails to the floor . 
And it could never overtake the failing floor ! I see it clearly , said Lady Muriel . 
But it makes one dizzy to think of such things ! How can you make us do it ? There is a more curious idea yet , I ventured to say . 
Suppose a cord fastened to the house , from below , and pulled down by some one on the planet . 
Practically , we should rise to the ceiling , said the Earl . 
The inevitable result of which would be concussion of brain . 
To avoid that , said Arthur , let us have the furniture fixed to the floor , and ourselves tied down to the furniture . 
Then the five o'clock tea could go on in peace . 
With one little drawback ! , Lady Muriel gaily interrupted . 
We should take the cups down with us but what about the tea ? I had forgotten the tea , Arthur confessed . 
What news does this gentleman bring us from the great world of London ? This drew me into the conversation , which now took a more conventional tone . 
The silence that followed was broken by the sweet voice of Sylvie . 
He thought he saw a kangaroo We don't want him to swallow anything , Sylvie explained . 
But we want to see him . 
So Will you please Certainly ! the Gardener promptly replied . 
There you are ! And he flung the door open , and let us out upon the dusty high road . 
What was it we had to do with it , Bruno ? It's all gone out of my head ! Kiss it ! was Bruno's invariable recipe in cases of doubt and difficulty . 
Sylvie kissed it , but no result followed . 
Rub it the wrong way , was Bruno's next suggestion . 
Which is the wrong way ? , Sylvie most reasonably enquired . 
The obvious plan was to try both ways . 
Rubbing from left to right had no visible effect whatever . 
From right to left Oh , stop , Sylvie ! Bruno cried in sudden alarm . 
Rub it some other way ! cried Bruno . 
Try up and down ! Quick ! It was a happy thought . 
Let's follow it , said Sylvie and this also turned out a happy thought . 
The mouse at once settled down into a business like jog trot , with which we could easily keep pace . 
Soon the transformation was complete and a noble lion stood patiently waiting for us to come up with it . 
No thought of fear seemed to occur to the children , who patted and stroked it as if it had been a Shetland pony . 
The mouse lion Help me up ! cried Bruno . 
And in another moment Sylvie had lifted him upon the broad back of the gentle beast , and seated herself behind him , pillion fashion . 
Bruno took a good handful of mane in each hand , and made believe to guide this new kind of steed . 
Gee up ! , seemed quite sufficient by way of verbal direction the lion at once broke into an easy canter , and we soon found ourselves in the depths of the forest . 
I say 'we , for I am certain that I accompanied them though how I managed to keep up with a cantering lion I am wholly unable to explain . 
From bad to worse ! That is their destiny . 
I see it , but I cannot alter it . 
Yet , when things are at their worst , you can come to me . 
It makes letters ! It makes words ! Bruno whispered , as he clung , half frightened , to Sylvie . 
Only I ca'n't make them out ! Read them , Sylvie ! I'll try , Sylvie gravely replied . 
Wait a minute if only I could see that word I should be very ill ! , a discordant voice yelled in our ears . 
Were I to swallow this , he said , 'I should be very ill ! CHAPTER . 
A JESTER AND A BEAR . 
The Professor mildly explained that His Highness had been graciously pleased to say he wouldn't do his lessons . 
Do your lessons this instant , you young cub ! thundered the Vice Warden . 
And take this ! and a resounding box on the ear made the unfortunate Professor reel across the room . 
Save me ! faltered the poor old man , as he sank , half fainting , at my Lady's feet . 
Shave you ? Of course I will ! my Lady replied , as she lifted him into a chair , and pinned an anti macassar round his neck . 
Where's the razor ? The Vice Warden meanwhile had got hold of Uggug , and was belabouring him with his umbrella . 
'Hammer it in ! Then his father turned to the 'shaving' scene which was being enacted , and roared with laughter . 
Excuse me , dear , I ca'n't help it ! he said as soon as he could speak . 
You are such an utter donkey ! Kiss me , Tabby ! And he flung his arms round the neck of the terrified Professor , who raised a wild shriek . 
We must go to Father ! Sylvie panted , as they ran down the garden . 
I'm sure things are at their worst ! I'll ask the Gardener to let us out again . 
But we ca'n't walk all the way ! Bruno whimpered . 
'Poor thing , he said , 'poor silly thing ! It's waiting to be fed ! Image . 
A bear without a head No , I ca'n't let you out again ! he said , before the children could speak . 
What is that donkey doing ? he said to himself , pausing , aghast , on the threshold . 
The lady , thus rudely referred to , was his wife . 
Boh ! he playfully shouted at her ear . 
Never tell me again I ca'n't say 'boh' to a goose ! My Lady wrung her hands . 
What are you hiding here , my Lady ? I insist upon knowing ! My Lady cast down her eyes , and spoke in the littlest of little voices . 
Don't make fun of it , Benjamin ! she pleaded . 
It's it's don't you understand ? It's a DAGGER ! And what's that for ? sneered His Excellency . 
Now , Madam , you'll be good enough to explain . 
Why , they aren't worth half the money , put together ! On my birthday , my Lady concluded in a meek whisper . 
One must have a dagger , you know . 
It's part of the Oh , don't talk of Conspiracies ! her husband savagely interrupted , as he tossed the dagger into the cupboard . 
You know about as much how to manage a Conspiracy as if you were a chicken . 
Why , the first thing is to get a disguise . 
Is that the sort of thing , now . 
My Lady's eyes flashed with all a Conspirator's enthusiasm . 
The very thing ! she exclaimed , clapping her hands . 
You do look , oh , such a perfect Fool ! The Fool smiled a doubtful smile . 
He was not quite clear whether it was a compliment or not , to express it so plainly . 
You mean a Jester ? Yes , that's what I intended . 
And what do you think your disguise is to be ? And he proceeded to unfold the parcel , the lady watching him in rapture . 
Oh , how lovely ! she cried , when at last the dress was unfolded . 
What a splendid disguise ! An Esquimaux peasant woman ! An Esquimaux peasant , indeed ! growled the other . 
Here , put it on , and look at yourself in the glass . 
The Vice Warden stole on tip toe to the window , and closed it noiselessly , before he ventured to go on . 
Yes , Lovey , a Bear but not without a head , I hope ! You're the Bear , and me the Keeper . 
Now go round the room in a sort of a dancing attitude . 
Very good , my dear , very good . 
Come up , Bruin ! Come up , I say ! Image . 
Oh , my ! was all he could gasp out . 
Plot's ruined if he finds it out ! Keep it up a minute or two longer . 
The Vice Warden shut and bolted the door . 
Off with the disguises ! he panted . 
There's not a moment to lose . 
The door opened , very slowly and cautiously , and the Professor peeped in , Uggug's stupid face being just visible behind him . 
It is a beautiful arrangement ! the Vice warden was saying with enthusiasm . 
You see , my precious one , that there are fifteen houses in Green Street , before you turn into West Street . 
Fifteen houses ! Is it possible ? my Lady replied . 
My Lady was the first to notice their approach . 
Why , here's the Professor ! she exclaimed in her blandest tones . 
And my precious child too ! Are lessons over ? A strange thing has happened ! the Professor began in a trembling tone . 
tells me he has just seen , in this very room , a Dancing Bear and a Court Jester ! The Vice Warden and his wife shook with well acted merriment . 
Not in this room , darling ! said the fond mother . 
We've been sitting here this hour or more , reading , here she referred to the book lying on her lap , reading the the City Directory . 
Let me feel your pulse , my boy ! said the anxious father . 
Now put out your tongue . 
Ah , I thought so ! He's a little feverish , Professor , and has had a bad dream . 
Put him to bed at once , and give him a cooling draught . 
I ain't been dreaming ! his Exalted Fatness remonstrated , as the Professor led him away . 
Bad grammar , Sir ! his father remarked with some sternness . 
Kindly attend to that little matter , Professor , as soon as you have corrected the feverishness . 
No ! Certainly not ! the Vice Warden eagerly explained . 
Merely an Emperor , you understand . 
An Emperor ! cried the astonished Professor , holding his head between his hands , as if he expected it to come to pieces with the shock . 
What will the Warden Why , the Warden will most likely be the new Emperor ! my Lady explained . 
Where could we find a better ? Unless , perhaps she glanced at her husband . 
Where indeed ! the Professor fervently responded , quite failing to take the hint . 
The Vice Warden resumed the thread of his discourse . 
The reason I mentioned it , Professor , was to ask you to be so kind as to preside at the Election . 
You see it would make the thing respectable no suspicion of anything , underhand I fear I ca'n't , your Excellency ! the old man faltered . 
What will the Warden True , true ! the Vice Warden interrupted . 
Your position , as Court Professor , makes it awkward , I admit . 
Well , well ! Then the Election shall be held without you . 
Better so , than if it were held within me ! the Professor murmured with a bewildered air , as if he hardly knew what he was saying . 
Bed , I think your Highness said , and a cooling draught ? And he wandered dreamily back to where Uggug sulkily awaited him . 
We were looking for you ! cried Sylvie , in a tone of great relief . 
We want you to speak to the Gardener for us , Sylvie said , as she and Bruno took the old man's hands and led him into the hall . 
He's ever so unkind ! Bruno mournfully added . 
They's all unkind to us , now that Father's gone . 
The Lion were much nicer ! But you must explain to me , please , the Professor said with an anxious look , which is the Lion , and which is the Gardener . 
It's most important not to get two such animals confused together . 
And one's very liable to do it in their case both having mouths , you know Doos oo always confuses two animals together ? Bruno asked . 
Pretty often , I'm afraid , the Professor candidly confessed . 
Now , for instance , there's the rabbit hutch and the hall clock . 
The Professor pointed them out . 
One gets a little confused with them both having doors , you know . 
The Professor clasped his hands on the top of his head , and groaned . 
Ah , well , I can soon settle his business , the Professor said to the children , if you'll just wait a minute . 
How much is it , this year , my man ? The tailor had come in while he was speaking . 
Well , it's been a doubling so many years , you see , the tailor replied , a little gruffly , and I think I'd like the money now . 
But it dew sound a powerful sight o' money ! Well , I think I'll wait Of course you will ! said the Professor . 
There's good sense in you , I see . 
Good day to you , my man ! Will you ever have to pay him that four thousand pounds ? Sylvie asked as the door closed on the departing creditor . 
Never , my child ! the Professor replied emphatically . 
He'll go on doubling it , till he dies . 
Bruno hastily went round to Sylvie , who was standing at the other side of the Professor , and put his hand into hers . 
I thinks we'd like to go , he said doubtfully only please let's go all together . 
It's best to be on the safe side , oo know ! Why , you talk as if you were Sylvie ! exclaimed the Professor . 
I know I did , Bruno replied very humbly . 
I quite forgotted I wasn't Sylvie . 
Only I fought he might be rarver fierce ! The Professor laughed a jolly laugh . 
Oh , he's quite tame ! he said . 
He's only a little a little dreamy , you know . 
Near the end of the passage the Professor stopped . 
This is his room , he said , pointing to the solid wall . 
We ca'n't get in through there ! Bruno exclaimed . 
Sylvie said nothing , till she had carefully examined whether the wall opened anywhere . 
You're playing us a trick , you dear old thing ! she said . 
There's no door here ! There isn't any door to the room , said the Professor . 
We shall have to climb in at the window . 
So we went into the garden , and soon found the window of the Other Professor's room . 
It was a ground floor window , and stood invitingly open the Professor first lifted the two children in , and then he and I climbed in after them . 
How dreamy he is ! the Professor exclaimed . 
Isn't it wonderful that he should be so dreamy ? he said to Bruno . 
If he's always as sleepy as that , Bruno remarked , a course he's dreamy ! But what are we to do ? said the Professor . 
You see he's quite wrapped up in the book ! Suppose oo shuts the book ? Bruno suggested . 
That's it ! cried the delighted Professor . 
Of course that'll do it ! And he shut up the book so quickly that he caught the Other Professor's nose between the leaves , and gave it a severe pinch . 
The Other Professor instantly rose to his feet , and carried the book away to the end of the room , where he put it back in its place in the book case . 
I've been reading for eighteen hours and three quarters , he said , and now I shall rest for fourteen minutes and a half . 
Is the Lecture all ready ? Very nearly , the Professor humbly replied . 
People never enjoy Abstract Science , you know , when they're ravenous with hunger . 
And then there's the Fancy Dress Ball . 
Oh , there'll be lots of entertainment ! Where will the Ball come in ? said the Other Professor . 
I think it had better come at the beginning of the Banquet it brings people together so nicely , you know . 
Yes , that's the right order . 
And as to the 'Pig Tale' which you have so kindly promised to give us the Professor went on , thoughtfully rubbing his chin . 
I think that had better come at the end of the Banquet then people can listen to it quietly . 
Shall I sing it ? the Other Professor asked , with a smile of delight . 
If you can , the Professor replied , cautiously . 
Let me try , said the Other Professor , seating himself at the pianoforte . 
For the sake of argument , let us assume that it begins on A flat . 
And he struck the note in question . 
La , la , la ! I think that's within an octave of it . 
He struck the note again , and appealed to Bruno , who was standing at his side . 
Did I sing it like that , my child ? No , oo didn't , Bruno replied with great decision . 
It were more like a duck . 
Single notes are apt to have that effect , the Other Professor said with a sigh . 
Let me try a whole verse . 
There was a Pig , that sat alone , Beside a ruined Pump . 
By day and night he made his moan It would have stirred a heart of stone To see him wring his hoofs and groan , Because he could not jump . 
Would you call that a tune , Professor ? he asked , when he had finished . 
The Professor considered a little . 
Well , he said at last , some of the notes are the same as others and some are different but I should hardly call it a tune . 
Let me try it a bit by myself , said the Other Professor . 
And he began touching the notes here and there , and humming to himself like an angry bluebottle . 
How do you like his singing ? the Professor asked the children in a low voice . 
It isn't very beautiful , Sylvie said , hesitatingly . 
It's very extremely ugly ! Bruno said , without any hesitation at all . 
All extremes are bad , the Professor said , very gravely . 
For instance , Sobriety is a very good thing , when practised in moderation but even Sobriety , when carried to an extreme , has its disadvantages . 
What are its disadvantages ? was the question that rose in my mind and , as usual , Bruno asked it for me . 
What are its lizard bandages ? Well , this is one of them , said the Professor . 
When a man's tipsy , he sees one thing as two . 
But , when he's extremely sober , he sees two things as one . 
It's equally inconvenient , whichever happens . 
What does 'illconvenient' mean ? Bruno whispered to Sylvie . 
The difference between 'convenient' and 'inconvenient' is best explained by an example , said the Other Professor , who had overheard the question . 
If you'll just think over any Poem that contains the two words such as The Professor put his hands over his ears , with a look of dismay . 
Three times , said the Professor . 
Bruno raised himself on tiptoe , till his lips were on a level with Sylvie's ear . 
What became of them three Poems ? he whispered . 
Is he saying them all , now ? Hush ! said Sylvie . 
'This debt will simply swallow all , And make my life a life of woe ! 'Nay , nay , nay Peter ! answered Paul . 
But my assets are very low My little income's overspent To trench on capital , you know , Is always inconvenient ! 'But pay your debts ! cried honest Paul . 
'My gentle Peter , pay your debts ! What matter if it swallows all That you describe as your assets ? Already you're an hour behind Yet Generosity is best . 
It pinches me but never mind ! I WILL NOT CHARGE YOU INTEREST ! 'How good ! How great ! poor Peter cried . 
You quite understand it now , don't you ? he added , looking kindly at Bruno , who was sitting , at Sylvie's side , on the floor . 
Yes , said Bruno , very quietly . 
Such a short speech was very unusual , for him but just then he seemed , I fancied , a little exhausted . 
In fact , he climbed up into Sylvie's lap as he spoke , and rested his head against her shoulder . 
What a many verses it was ! he whispered . 
The Other Professor regarded him with some anxiety . 
The smaller animal ought to go to bed at once , he said with an air of authority . 
Why at once ? said the Professor . 
Because he can't go at twice , said the Other Professor . 
The Professor gently clapped his hands . 
'Isn't he wonderful ! he said to Sylvie . 
Nobody else could have thought of the reason , so quick . 
Why , of course he ca'n't go at twice ! It would hurt him to be divided . 
This remark woke up Bruno , suddenly and completely . 
I don't want to be divided , he said decisively . 
It does very well on a diagram , said the Other Professor . 
I could show it you in a minute , only the chalk's a little blunt . 
Take care ! Sylvie anxiously exclaimed , as he began , rather clumsily , to point it . 
You'll cut your finger off , if you hold the knife so ! If oo cuts it off , will oo give it to me , please ? Bruno thoughtfully added . 
If AB were to be divided into two parts at C It would be drownded , Bruno pronounced confidently . 
What would be drownded ? Why the bumble bee , of course ! said Bruno . 
And the two bits would sink down in the sea ! Here the Professor interfered , as the Other Professor was evidently too much puzzled to go on with his diagram . 
When I said it would hurt him , I was merely referring to the action of the nerves The Other Professor brightened up in a moment . 
The action of the nerves , he began eagerly , is curiously slow in some people . 
Then it would take ever so much longer , of course . 
In fact , I doubt if the man himself would ever feel it , at all . 
I wouldn't like to be the grandchild of a pinched grandfather , would you , Mister Sir ? Bruno whispered . 
But don't you always want to be happy , Bruno ? Not always , Bruno said thoughtfully . 
Sometimes , when I's too happy , I wants to be a little miserable . 
Then I just tell Sylvie about it , oo know , and Sylvie sets me some lessons . 
I'm sorry you don't like lessons , I said . 
She's always as busy as the day is long ! Well , so am I ! said Bruno . 
No , no ! Sylvie corrected him . 
You're as busy as the day is short ! Well , what's the difference ? Bruno asked . 
The Professor left off polishing his spectacles to consider . 
My dears , he said after a minute , the day is the same length as anything that is the same length as it . 
And he resumed his never ending task of polishing . 
The children returned , slowly and thoughtfully , to report his answer . 
Isn't he wise ? Sylvie asked in an awestruck whisper . 
If I was as wise as that , I should have a head ache all day long . 
I know I should ! You appear to be talking to somebody that isn't here , the Professor said , turning round to the children . 
Who is it ? Bruno looked puzzled . 
I never talks to nobody when he isn't here ! he replied . 
Oo should always wait till he comes , before oo talks to him ! The Professor looked anxiously in my direction , and seemed to look through and through me without seeing me . 
Then who are you talking to ? he said . 
There isn't anybody here , you know , except the Other Professor and he isn't here ! he added wildly , turning round and round like a teetotum . 
Children ! Help to look for him ! Quick ! He's got lost again ! The children were on their feet in a moment . 
Where shall we look ? said Sylvie . 
Anywhere ! shouted the excited Professor . 
Only be quick about it ! And he began trotting round and round the room , lifting up the chairs , and shaking them . 
Bruno took a very small book out of the bookcase , opened it , and shook it in imitation of the Professor . 
He isn't here , he said . 
He ca'n't be there , Bruno ! Sylvie said indignantly . 
Course he ca'n't ! said Bruno . 
Once before , said the Professor he once lost himself in a wood And couldn't he find his self again ? said Bruno . 
Why didn't he shout ? He'd be sure to hear his self , 'cause he couldn't be far off , oo know . 
Lets try shouting , said the Professor . 
What shall we shout ? said Sylvie . 
On second thoughts , don't shout , the Professor replied . 
The Vice Warden might hear you . 
He's getting awfully strict ! This reminded the poor children of all the troubles , about which they had come to their old friend . 
Bruno sat down on the floor and began crying . 
He is so cruel ! he sobbed . 
And he lets Uggug take away all my toys ! And such horrid meals ! What did you have for dinner to day ? said the Professor . 
A little piece of a dead crow , was Bruno's mournful reply . 
He means rook pie , Sylvie explained . 
It were a dead crow , Bruno persisted . 
The Professor got out a large red silk handkerchief , and wiped his eyes . 
I wish I could help you , dear children ! he said . 
But what can I do ? We know the way to Fairyland where Father's gone quite well , said Sylvie if only the Gardener would let us out . 
Won't he open the door for you ? said the Professor . 
Not for us , said Sylvie but I'm sure he would for you . 
Do come and ask him , Professor dear ! I'll come this minute ! said the Professor . 
Bruno sat up and dried his eyes . 
Isn't he kind , Mister Sir ? He is indeed , said I. But the Professor took no notice of my remark . 
He had put on a beautiful cap with a long tassel , and was selecting one of the Other Professor's walking sticks , from a stand in the corner of the room . 
A thick stick in one's hand makes people respectful , he was saying to himself . 
Come along , dear children ! And we all went out into the garden together . 
I shall address him , first of all , the Professor explained as we went along , with a few playful remarks on the weather . 
I shall then question him about the Other Professor . 
This will have a double advantage . 
and secondly , if he's seen the Other Professor , we shall find him that way and , if he hasn't , we sha'n't . 
On our way , we passed the target , at which Uggug had been made to shoot during the Ambassador's visit . 
See ! said the Professor , pointing out a hole in the middle of the bull's eye . 
His Imperial Fatness had only one shot at it and he went in just here ! Bruno carefully examined the hole . 
Couldn't go in there , he whispered to me . 
He are too fat ! We had no sort of difficulty in finding the Gardener . 
'You'd best be getting home , he said 'The nights are very damp ! Image . 
He thought he saw an albatross Would it be afraid of catching cold ? said Bruno . 
If it got very damp , Sylvie suggested , it might stick to something , you know . 
And that somefin would have to go by the post , what ever it was ! Bruno eagerly exclaimed . 
Suppose it was a cow ! Wouldn't it be dreadful for the other things ! And all these things happened to him , said the Professor . 
That's what makes the song so interesting . 
He must have had a very curious life , said Sylvie . 
You may say that ! the Professor heartily rejoined . 
Of course she may ! cried Bruno . 
It hasn't got no water in it ! Bruno explained to him , pulling his sleeve to attract his attention . 
It's lighter to hold , said the Gardener . 
A lot of water in it makes one's arms ache . 
There ain't such a thing ! We will try a less exciting topic , the Professor mildly remarked to the children . 
I wouldn't mind letting you out , said the Gardener . 
But I mustn't open the door for children . 
D'you think I'd disobey the Rules ? Not for one and sixpence ! The Professor cautiously produced a couple of shillings . 
But look here , Professor dear ! whispered Sylvie . 
He needn't open the door for us , at all . 
We can go out with you . 
True , dear child ! the Professor thankfully replied , as he replaced the coins in his pocket . 
That saves two shillings ! And he took the children's hands , that they might all go out together when the door was opened . 
This , however , did not seem a very likely event , though the Gardener patiently tried all the small keys , over and over again . 
At last the Professor ventured on a gentle suggestion . 
Why not try the large one ? I have often observed that a door unlocks much more nicely with its own key . 
The very first trial of the large key proved a success the Gardener opened the door , and held out his hand for the money . 
The Professor shook his head . 
You are acting by Rule , he explained , in opening the door for me . 
And now it's open , we are going out by Rule the Rule of Three . 
But the children still kept fast hold of his hands . 
Do come with us ! Sylvie entreated with tears in her eyes . 
Well , well ! said the good natured old man . 
Perhaps I'll come after you , some day soon . 
But I must go back now . 
But it'll be quite easy to come , as soon as I've completed my new invention for carrying one's self , you know . 
It wants just a little more working out . 
Won't that be very tiring , to carry yourself ? Sylvie enquired . 
Well , no , my child . 
Good bye , Professor ! I replied but my voice sounded strange and far away , and the children took not the slightest notice of our farewell . 
Evidently they neither saw me nor heard me , as , with their arms lovingly twined round each other , they marched boldly on . 
There's a house , away there to the left , said Sylvie , after we had walked what seemed to me about fifty miles . 
Let's go and ask for a night's lodging . 
It looks a very comfable house , Bruno said , as we turned into the road leading up to it . 
The mastiff sentinel Oobooh , hooh boohooyah ! He growled at last . 
Woobah yahwah oobooh ! Bow wahbah woobooyah ? Bow wow ? he asked Bruno , severely . 
Of course Bruno understood all this , easily enough . 
All Fairies understand Doggee that is , Dog language . 
But , as you may find it a little difficult , just at first , I had better put it into English for you . 
But Sylvie hastily checked him , for fear of hurting the Mastiff's feelings . 
Please , we want a little food , and a night's lodging if there's room in the house , she added timidly . 
Sylvie spoke Doggee very prettily but I think it's almost better , for you , to give the conversation in English . 
The house , indeed ! growled the Sentinel . 
Have you never seen a Palace in your life ? Come along with me ! His Majesty must settle what's to be done with you . 
They followed him through the entrance hall , down a long passage , and into a magnificent Saloon , around which were grouped dogs of all sorts and sizes . 
Two splendid Blood hounds were solemnly sitting up , one on each side of the crown bearer . 
Lords and Ladies in Waiting , and various Court Officials , our guide gruffly remarked , as he led us in . 
Before doing this , the Sentinel turned to the children , and said Give me your names . 
We'd rather not ! Bruno exclaimed , pulling' Sylvie away from the door . 
Come back , Sylvie ! Come quick ! Nonsense ! , said Sylvie very decidedly and gave their names in Doggee . 
Then the Sentinel scratched violently at the door , and gave a yell that made Bruno shiver from head to foot . 
Hooyah wah ! said a deep voice inside . 
It's the King himself ! the Mastiff whispered in an awestruck tone . 
Take off your wigs , and lay them humbly at his paws . 
Bow wow ? was his first question . 
When His Majesty speaks to you , the Sentinel hastily whispered to Bruno , you should prick up your ears ! Bruno looked doubtfully at Sylvie . 
I'd rather not , please , he said . 
The dog king It doesn't hurt a bit ! the Sentinel said with some indignation . 
Look ! It's like this ! And he pricked up his ears like two railway signals . 
I'm afraid we ca'n't manage it , she said in a low voice . 
I'm very sorry but our ears haven't got the right she wanted to say machinery in Doggee but she had forgotten the word , and could only think of steam engine . 
The Sentinel repeated Sylvie's explanation to the King . 
Can't prick up their ears without a steam engine ! His Majesty exclaimed . 
They must be curious creatures ! I must have a look at them ! And he came out of his Kennel , and walked solemnly up to the children . 
his Majesty wagged his tail ! Yah ! Hooh hahwooh ! was the universal cry . 
His Majesty looked round him severely , and gave a slight growl , which produced instant silence . 
A procession was formed , but I only ventured to follow as far as the door of the banqueting hall , so furious was the uproar of barking dogs within . 
Time for bed ! he said with a sleepy yawn . 
The attendants will show you your room , he added , aside , to Sylvie and Bruno . 
Bring lights ! And , with a dignified air , he held out his paw for them to kiss . 
But the children were evidently not well practised in Court manners . 
Sylvie simply stroked the great paw Bruno hugged it the Master of the Ceremonies looked shocked . 
I'm in an arm chair . 
Well , forty winks will do you no harm , the Master said , and left me . 
I could scarcely hear his words and no wonder he was leaning over the side of a ship , that was miles away from the pier on which I stood . 
The ship passed over the horizon and I sank back into the arm chair . 
The great Newfoundland received them most affably but instead of saying good bye he startled the Head growler into giving three savage growls , by announcing that he would escort them himself . 
I are glad ! Bruno whispered to Sylvie , when they had got well out of hearing . 
He were so welly cross ! And he not only patted their Royal escort , but even hugged him round the neck in the exuberance of his delight . 
His Majesty calmly wagged the Royal tail . 
But Bruno was equal to the occasion , and with a glad shout of Hi then ! Fetch it , good Doggie ! he hurled it over a clump of bushes . 
The next moment the Monarch of Dogland had bounded over the bushes , and picked up the stick , and came galloping back to the children with it in his mouth . 
Bruno took it from him with great decision . 
Beg for it ! he insisted and His Majesty begged . 
Paw ! commanded Sylvie and His Majesty gave his paw . 
And I must go back to mine . 
That were a dear dog ! Bruno exclaimed . 
Has we to go far , Sylvie ? I's tired ! Not much further , darling ! Sylvie gently replied . 
It dazzles ! said Bruno , shading his eyes with one little hand , while the other clung tightly to Sylvie's hand , as if he were half alarmed at her strange manner . 
For the child moved on as if walking in her sleep , her large eyes gazing into the far distance , and her breath coming and going in quick pantings of eager delight . 
and that she was passing from the condition of a mere Outland Sprite into the true Fairy nature . 
Upon Bruno the change came later but it was completed in both before they reached the golden gate , through which I knew it would be impossible for me to follow . 
I could but stand outside , and take a last look at the two sweet children , ere they disappeared within , and the golden gate closed with a bang . 
And with such a bang ! It never will shut like any other cupboard door , Arthur explained . 
There's something wrong with the hinge . 
However , here's the cake and wine . 
And you've had your forty winks . 
So you really must get off to bed , old man ! You're fit for nothing else . 
Witness my hand , Arthur Forester , M. D. By this time I was wide awake again . 
Not quite yet ! I pleaded . 
Really I'm not sleepy now . 
And it isn't midnight yet . 
Well , I did want to say another word to you , Arthur replied in a relenting tone , as he supplied me with the supper he had prescribed . 
Only I thought you were too sleepy for it to night . 
We took our midnight meal almost in silence for an unusual nervousness seemed to have seized on my old friend . 
What kind of a night is it ? he asked , rising and undrawing the window curtains , apparently to change the subject for a minute . 
I followed him to the window , and we stood together , looking out , in silence . 
That seemed to be my only chance of usefulness in life . 
Would that have been wise ? I said . 
What I wanted to tell you was this , he resumed . 
I heard this evening from my solicitor . 
in a position to offer marriage , without imprudence , to any lady , even if she brought nothing . 
I doubt if there would be anything on her side the Earl is poor , I believe . 
But I should have enough for both , even if health failed . 
I wish you all happiness in your married life ! I cried . 
Shall you speak to the Earl to morrow ? Not yet awhile , said Arthur . 
He is very friendly , but I dare not think he means more than that , as yet . 
And as for as for Lady Muriel , try as I may , I cannot read her feelings towards me . 
The next morning a letter from my solicitor arrived , summoning me to town on important business . 
Arthur had written once or twice during the month but in none of his letters was there any mention of Lady Muriel . 
Next day , however , as we chatted on over the remains of luncheon , I ventured to put the momentous question . 
We need to know or , rather , she needs to know me better . 
I know her sweet nature , thoroughly , by this time . 
But I dare not speak till I am sure that my love is returned . 
Don't wait too long ! I said gaily . 
Faint heart never won fair lady ! It is 'faint heart , perhaps . 
But really I dare not speak just yet . 
But meanwhile , I pleaded , you are running a risk that perhaps you have not thought of . 
Some other man No , said Arthur firmly . 
She is heart whole I am sure of that . 
Yet , if she loves another better than me , so be it ! I will not spoil her happiness . 
The secret shall die with me . 
But she is my first and my only love ! That is all very beautiful sentiment , I said , but it is not practical . 
It is not like you . 
He either fears his fate too much , Or his desert is small , Who dares not put it to the touch , To win or lose it all . 
I dare not ask the question whether there is another ! he said passionately . 
No , no ! he replied with a pained look . 
I entreat you to say nothing . 
As you please , I said and judged it best to say no more just then . 
But this evening , I thought , I will call on the Earl . 
The next question is , what is the best time for seeing Fairies ? I believe I can tell you all about that . 
And the last rule is , that the crickets should not be chirping . 
I can't stop to explain that you must take it on trust for the present . 
So , if all these things happen together , you have a good chance of seeing a Fairy or at least a much better chance than if they didn't . 
Not that she looked as if she would be easily frightened she seemed so good and gentle that I'm sure she would never expect that any one could wish to hurt her . 
, and that she had quantities of long brown hair and large earnest brown eyes , and then I shall have done all I can to give you an idea of her . 
There , there ! You needn't cry so much about it . 
Of course if you go among sand pits like that , you must expect to tumble . 
The Beetle murmured something that sounded like I did look , and Sylvie went on again . 
But I know you didn't ! You never do ! You always walk with your chin up you're so dreadfully conceited . 
Well , let's see how many legs are broken this time . 
Now don't begin putting out your wings yet I've more to say . 
Go to the frog that lives behind that buttercup give him my compliments Sylvie's compliments can you say compliments' ? The Beetle tried and , I suppose , succeeded . 
And tell him he's to give you some of that salve I left with him yesterday . 
And you'd better get him to rub it in for you . 
He's got rather cold hands , but you mustn't mind that . 
I think the Beetle must have shuddered at this idea , for Sylvie went on in a graver tone . 
Now you needn't pretend to be so particular as all that , as if you were too grand to be rubbed by a frog . 
The fact is , you ought to be very much obliged to him . 
Suppose you could get nobody but a toad to do it , how would you like that ? There was a little pause , and then Sylvie added Now you may go . 
Be a good beetle , and don't keep your chin in the air . 
And now I've got time to tell you the rule about the crickets . 
I walked on sadly enough , you may be sure . 
However , I comforted myself with thinking It's been a very wonderful afternoon , so far . 
I'll just go quietly on and look about me , and I shouldn't wonder if I were to come across another Fairy somewhere . 
Peering about in this way , I happened to notice a plant with rounded leaves , and with queer little holes cut in the middle of several of them . 
and I was passing on , when a sudden thought made me stoop down and examine the leaves . 
What's your name , little one ? I began , in as soft a voice as I could manage . 
What's your name , my little man ? What's oors ? he said , without looking up . 
I told him my name quite gently , for he was much too small to be angry with . 
Duke of Anything ? he asked , just looking at me for a moment , and then going on with his work . 
Not Duke at all , I said , a little ashamed of having to confess it . 
Oo're big enough to be two Dukes , said the little creature . 
I suppose oo're Sir Something , then ? No , I said , feeling more and more ashamed . 
I haven't got any title . 
The Fairy seemed to think that in that case I really wasn't worth the trouble of talking to , for he quietly went on digging , and tearing the flowers to pieces . 
After a few minutes I tried again . 
Please tell me what your name is . 
Bruno , the little fellow answered , very readily . 
, to the time when I was a little child . 
As he said this , he savagely tore a heartsease in two , and trampled on the pieces . 
What are you doing there , Bruno ? I said . 
Spoiling Sylvie's garden , was all the answer Bruno would give at first . 
Don't you know that's revenge ? And revenge is a wicked , cruel , dangerous thing ! River edge ? said Bruno . 
What a funny word ! I suppose oo call it cruel and dangerous 'cause , if oo wented too far and tumbleded in , oo'd get drownded . 
But I couldn't help thinking that Bruno's explanation did very well for either word . 
Oh ! said Bruno , opening his eyes very wide , but without trying to repeat the word . 
Come ! Try and pronounce it , Bruno ! I said , cheerfully . 
Re venge , re venge . 
But Bruno only tossed his little head , and said he couldn't that his mouth wasn't the right shape for words of that kind . 
And the more I laughed , the more sulky the little fellow got about it . 
Well , never mind , my little man ! I said . 
Shall I help you with that job ? Yes , please , Bruno said , quite pacified . 
Only I wiss I could think of somefin to vex her more than this . 
Something that will vex her finely . 
First , we'll get up all the weeds in her garden . 
See , there are a good many at this end quite hiding the flowers . 
But that won't vex her ! said Bruno . 
After that , I said , without noticing the remark , we'll water this highest bed up here . 
You see it's getting quite dry and dusty . 
Bruno looked at me inquisitively , but he said nothing this time . 
All that won't vex her a bit ! Won't it ? I said , innocently . 
Then , after that , suppose we put in some of these coloured pebbles just to mark the divisions between the different kinds of flowers , you know . 
That'll have a very pretty effect . 
Bruno turned round and had another good stare at me . 
At last there came an odd little twinkle into his eyes , and he said , with quite a new meaning in his voice , That'll do nicely . 
Let's put 'em in rows all the red together , and all the blue together . 
Violets , he said , at last . 
There's a beautiful bed of violets down by the brook Oh , let's fetch 'em ! cried Bruno , giving a little skip into the air . 
Here ! Catch hold of my hand , and I'll help oo along . 
The grass is rather thick down that way . 
I couldn't help laughing at his having so entirely forgotten what a big creature he was talking to . 
No , not yet , Bruno , I said we must consider what's the right thing to do first . 
You see we've got quite a business before us . 
Yes , let's consider , said Bruno , putting his thumb into his mouth again , and sitting down upon a dead mouse . 
What do you keep that mouse for ? I said . 
You should either bury it , or else throw it into the brook . 
Why , it's to measure with ! cried Bruno . 
How ever would oo do a garden without one ? We make each bed three mouses and a half long , and two mouses wide . 
I think the best way will be for you to weed the beds , while I sort out these pebbles , ready to mark the walks with . 
That's it ! cried Bruno . 
And I'll tell oo about the caterpillars while we work . 
Ah , let's hear about the caterpillars , I said , as I drew the pebbles together into a heap and began dividing them into colours . 
And Bruno went on in a low , rapid tone , more as if he were talking to himself . 
Yesterday I saw two little caterpillars , when I was sitting by the brook , just where oo go into the wood . 
They were quite green , and they had yellow eyes , and they didn't see me . 
And one of them had got a moth's wing to carry a great brown moth's wing , oo know , all dry , with feathers . 
One word was quite enough for the little fellow , and he went on merrily . 
Of course he toppled over after that . 
After what ? I said , catching at the last word , for , to tell the truth , I hadn't been attending much . 
See , I'm quite grave again now . 
But Bruno only folded his arms , and said Don't tell me . 
I see a little twinkle in one of oor eyes just like the moon . 
Why do you think I'm like the moon , Bruno ? I asked . 
Oor face is large and round like the moon , Bruno answered , looking at me thoughtfully . 
It doosn't shine quite so bright but it's more cleaner . 
I couldn't help smiling at this . 
You know I sometimes wash my face , Bruno . 
The moon never does that . 
Then it's all clean again , isn't it ? Not all in a moment , said Bruno . 
What a deal of teaching oo wants ! She washes it little by little only she begins at the other edge , oo know . 
After that we had a few minutes of silence , while I sorted out the pebbles , and amused myself with watching Bruno's plan of gardening . 
Oo like Fairies , don't oo ? Yes , I said of course I do , or I shouldn't have come here . 
I should have gone to some place where there are no Fairies . 
Why , oo might as well say oo'd go to some place where there wasn't any air supposing oo didn't like air ! This was a rather difficult idea to grasp . 
I tried a change of subject . 
You're nearly the first Fairy I ever saw . 
Have you ever seen any people besides me ? Plenty ! said Bruno . 
We see'em when we walk in the road . 
But they ca'n't see you . 
How is it they never tread on you ? Ca'n't tread on us , said Bruno , looking amused at my ignorance . 
and suppose there's a Fairy that's me walking here . 
Very well then , oo put one foot here , and one foot here , so oo doosn't tread on the Fairy . 
This was all very well as an explanation , but it didn't convince me . 
Why shouldn't I put one foot on the Fairy ? I asked . 
I don't know why , the little fellow said in a thoughtful tone . 
But I know oo wouldn't . 
Nobody never walked on the top of a Fairy . 
Now I'll tell oo what I'll do , as oo're so fond of Fairies . 
I'll get oo an invitation to the Fairy King's dinner party . 
I know one of the head waiters . 
I couldn't help laughing at this idea . 
Do the waiters invite the guests ? I asked . 
Oh , not to sit down ! Bruno said . 
But to wait at table . 
Oo'd like that , wouldn't oo ? To hand about plates , and so on . 
I said , as meekly as I could , that I didn't expect it , but it was the only way of going to a dinner party that I really enjoyed . 
And Bruno tossed his head , and said , in a rather offended tone that I might do as I pleased there were many he knew that would give their ears to go . 
Have you ever been yourself , Bruno ? They invited me once , last week , Bruno said , very gravely . 
It was to wash up the soup plates no , the cheese plates I mean that was grand enough . 
And I waited at table . 
And I didn't hardly make only one mistake . 
What was it ? I said . 
You needn't mind telling me . 
Only bringing scissors to cut the beef with , Bruno said carelessly . 
But the grandest thing of all was , I fetched the King a glass of cider ! That was grand ! I said , biting my lip to keep myself from laughing . 
Wasn't it ? said Bruno , very earnestly . 
I don't know how long I might not have dreamed on in this way , if Bruno hadn't suddenly roused me . 
Oh , come here quick ! he cried , in a state of the wildest excitement . 
We'll hunt it afterwards , Bruno , I said , if you really want to catch it . 
But what's the use of it when you've got it ? What's the use of a fox when oo've got it ? said Bruno . 
I know oo big things hunt foxes . 
I'll go snail hunting myself some day . 
I should think oo wouldn't be so silly , said Bruno , as to go snail hunting by oor self . 
Why , oo'd never get the snail along , if oo hadn't somebody to hold on to his other horn ! Of course I sha'n't go alone , I said , quite gravely . 
They're always so cross about it and then , if oo tumbles over them , they're ever so sticky ! By this time we had nearly finished the garden . 
I had fetched some violets , and Bruno was just helping me to put in the last , when he suddenly stopped and said I'm tired . 
Rest then , I said I can go on without you , quite well . 
Bruno needed no second invitation he at once began arranging the dead mouse as a kind of sofa . 
And I'll sing oo a little song , he said , as he rolled it about . 
Do , said I I like songs very much . 
Which song will oo choose ? Bruno said , as he dragged the mouse into a place where he could get a good view of me . 
'Ting , ting , ting' is the nicest . 
Bruno's revenge That shows oo're a good judge of music , Bruno said , with a pleased look . 
How many hare bells would oo like ? And he put his thumb into his mouth to help me to consider . 
Bruno ran his hand once or twice up and down the flowers , like a musician trying an instrument , producing a most delicious delicate tinkling as he did so . 
, and , looking up at me with a merry twinkle in his eyes , he began . 
By the way , the tune was rather a curious one , and you might like to try it for yourself , so here are the notes . 
Then he left off to explain . 
And then you go and dine with him ? I said , mischievously . 
Oo shouldn't talk , Bruno hastily said it interrupts the song so . 
I said I wouldn't do it again . 
I never talk myself when I'm singing , he went on very gravely so oo shouldn't either . 
Haste , oh haste , to take and taste The dainties waiting , ting , ting , ting ! Honey dew is stored Hush , Bruno ! I interrupted in a warning whisper . 
That way ! said Bruno , carefully turning her round with her face to the wood . 
But he was far too much excited to think of what he was doing . 
I heard Bruno cry out triumphantly Now oo may look ! and then followed a clapping of hands , but it was all done by Bruno himself . 
Sylvie was silent she only stood and gazed with her hands clasped together , and I was half afraid she didn't like it after all . 
And did you really do it all by yourself , Bruno ? said Sylvie . 
And all for me ? I was helped a bit , Bruno began , with a merry little laugh at her surprise . 
There was a little quiver in Sylvie's voice too , as she whispered Why , what's the matter , darling ? and tried to lift up his head and kiss him . 
But Bruno only clung to her , sobbing , and wouldn't be comforted till he had confessed . 
I tried to spoil oor garden first but I'll never never and then came another burst of tears , which drowned the rest of the sentence . 
At last he got out the words I liked putting in the flowers for oo , Sylvie and I never was so happy before . 
And the rosy little face came up at last to be kissed , all wet with tears as it was . 
I felt very happy too , but of course I didn't cry big things never do , you know we leave all that to the Fairies . 
Only I think it must have been raining a little just then , for I found a drop or two on my cheeks . 
Doos oo know , that was my river edge , Sylvie ? Bruno solemnly began . 
What do you mean ? she said . 
And she pushed back her heavy brown hair with both hands , and looked at him with dancing eyes in which the big teardrops were still glittering . 
Bruno drew in a long breath , and made up his mouth for a great effort . 
I mean revenge , he said now oo under'tand . 
And he looked so happy and proud at having said the word right at last , that I quite envied him . 
I rather think Sylvie didn't under'tand at all but she gave him a little kiss on each cheek , which seemed to do just as well . 
Yes , once , just before I quite lost sight of them , Bruno half turned his head , and nodded me a saucy little good bye over one shoulder . 
And that was all the thanks I got for my trouble . 
Do say it once more . 
Come ! Only this once , dear ! But Bruno wouldn't try it again . 
The Marvellous the Mysterious had quite passed out of my life for the moment and the Common place reigned supreme . 
Lady Muriel and her father gave me a delightfully warm welcome . 
They were not of the folk we meet in fashionable drawing rooms who conceal all such feelings as they may chance to possess beneath the impenetrable mask of a conventional placidity . 
and I think he has too lonely a life , she went on , with a gentle earnestness that left no room whatever to suspect a double meaning . 
Do get him to come ! And don't forget the day , Tuesday week . 
We can drive you over . 
It would be a pity to go by rail there is so much pretty scenery on the road . 
And our open carriage just holds four . 
I certainly do not like snakes and I don't suppose Bruno likes them , either ! No , he doesn't like them ! said a demure little voice at my side . 
He's not afraid of them , you know . 
But he doesn't like them . 
Fairies resting Too waggly ? was all I could say in so sudden an emergency . 
I'm not praticular , Bruno said , carelessly but I do like straight animals best But you like a dog when it wags its tail , Sylvie interrupted . 
You know you do , Bruno ! But there's more of a dog , isn't there , Mister Sir ? Bruno appealed to me . 
You wouldn't like to have a dog if it hadn't got nuffin but a head and a tail ? I admitted that a dog of that kind would be uninteresting . 
There isn't such a dog as that , Sylvie thoughtfully remarked . 
But there would be , cried Bruno , if the Professor shortened it up for us ! Shortened it up ? I said . 
How does he do it ? He's got a curious machine Sylvie was beginning to explain . 
And one day when we was in Outland , oo know before we came to Fairyland me and Sylvie took him a big Crocodile . 
And he shortened it up for us . 
Course not ! said the little fellow . 
Only the eye that couldn't see wherever the rest of it had got to . 
But the eye that could see wherever How short was the crocodile ? I asked , as the story was getting a little complicated . 
Half as short again as when we caught it so long , said Bruno , spreading out his arms to their full stretch . 
I tried to calculate what this would come to , but it was too hard for me . 
Please make it out for me , dear Child who reads this ! But you didn't leave the poor thing so short as that , did you ? Well , no . 
It wouldn't like that better than the other way , I'm afraid ? Oh , but it did though ! Bruno put in eagerly . 
A changed crocodile Not quite all the way , said Sylvie . 
It couldn't , you know . 
Ah , but it did , once ! Bruno cried triumphantly . 
Oo weren't looking but I watched it . 
And it walked on tippiety toe , so as it wouldn't wake itself , 'cause it thought it were asleep . 
And it got both its paws on its tail . 
And it walked and it walked all the way along its back . 
And it walked and it walked on its forehead . 
And it walked a tiny little way down its nose ! There now ! This was a good deal worse than the last puzzle . 
Oo don't know the reason why it did it ! , Bruno scornfully retorted . 
It had a welly good reason . 
This time Bruno was at a loss , and left it to Sylvie . 
It's like a mangle , she said if things are put in , they get squoze Squeezeled ! Bruno interrupted . 
Sylvie accepted the correction , but did not attempt to pronounce the word , which was evidently new to her . 
They get like that and they come out , oh , ever so long ! Once , Bruno began again , Sylvie and me writed Wrote ! Sylvie whispered . 
Well , we wroted a Nursery Song , and the Professor mangled it longer for us . 
It were 'There was a little Man , And he had a little gun , And the bullets I know the rest , I interrupted . 
But would you say it long I mean the way that it came out of the mangle ? We'll get the Professor to sing it for you , said Sylvie . 
It would spoil it to say it . 
I would like to meet the Professor , I said . 
And I would like to take you all with me , to see some friends of mine , that live near here . 
Would you like to come ? I don't think the Professor would like to come , said Sylvie . 
But we'd like it very much . 
Only we'd better not come this size , you know . 
The difficulty had occurred to me already and I had felt that perhaps there would be a slight awkwardness in introducing two such tiny friends into Society . 
What size will you be ? I enquired . 
We'd better come as common children , Sylvie thoughtfully replied . 
That's the easiest size to manage . 
Could you come to day ? I said , thinking then we could have you at the picnic ! Sylvie considered a little . 
Not to day , she replied . 
We haven't got the things ready . 
We'll come on Tuesday next , if you like . 
And now , really Bruno , you must come and do your lessons . 
I wiss oo wouldn't say 'really Bruno ! the little fellow pleaded , with pouting lips that made him look prettier than ever . 
It always show's there's something horrid coming ! And I won't kiss you , if you're so unkind . 
Ah , but you have kissed me ! Sylvie exclaimed in merry triumph . 
Well then , I'll unkiss you ! And he threw his arms round her neck for this novel , but apparently not very painful , operation . 
It's very like kissing ! Sylvie remarked , as soon as her lips were again free for speech . 
Oo don't know nuffin about it ! It were just the conkery ! Bruno replied with much severity , as he marched away . 
Sylvie turned her laughing face to me . 
Shall we come on Tuesday ? she said . 
Very well , I said let it be Tuesday next . 
But where is the Professor ? Did he come with you to Fairyland ? No , said Sylvie . 
But he promised he'd come and see us , some day . 
He's getting his Lecture ready . 
So he has to stay at home . 
At home ? I said dreamily , not feeling quite sure what she had said . 
His Lordship and Lady Muriel are at home . 
Please to walk this way . 
Still more dreamily I found myself following this imperious voice into a room where the Earl , his daughter , and Arthur , were seated . 
So you're come at last ! said Lady Muriel , in a tone of playful reproach . 
I was delayed , I stammered . 
Though what it was that had delayed me I should have been puzzled to explain ! Luckily no questions were asked . 
The carriage was ordered round , the hamper , containing our contribution to the Picnic , was duly stowed away , and we set forth . 
There was no need for me to maintain the conversation . 
Why shouldn't we desert the Picnic and go in some other direction ? she suddenly suggested . 
A party of four is surely self sufficing ? And as for food , our hamper Why shouldn't we ? What a genuine lady's argument ! laughed Arthur . 
A lady never knows on which side the onus probandi the burden of proving lies ! Do men always know ? she asked with a pretty assumption of meek docility . 
With one exception the only one I can think of Dr . 
And the thief's answer is of course complete and crushing . 
'I deprive my neighbour of his goods because I want them myself . 
'Why shouldn't I walk on my own forehead ? What a curious subject for speculation ! said Lady Muriel , turning to me , with eyes brimming over with laughter . 
May we know who propounded the question ? And did he walk on his own forehead ? I ca'n't remember who it was that said it ! I faltered . 
Nor where I heard it ! Whoever it was , I hope we shall meet him at the Picnic ! said Lady Muriel . 
I don't see the 'of course' at all . 
is to be proved fallible ! If you once praise a picture , your character for infallibility hangs by a thread . 
Suppose it's a figure picture , and you venture to say 'draws well . 
Somebody measures it , and finds one of the proportions an eighth of an inch wrong . 
You are disposed of as a critic ! 'Did you say he draws well ? your friends enquire sarcastically , while you hang your head and blush . 
No. The only safe course , if any one says 'draws well , is to shrug your shoulders . 
'Draws well ? you repeat thoughtfully . 
A little more , or a little less , and all would be utterly spoiled ! Image . 
A lecture , on art Oh gifted architect ! murmured Arthur , inaudibly to all but Lady Muriel and myself . 
Quite so ! the great man sharply took me up . 
From your point of view , that is correctly put . 
But for anyone who has a soul for Art , such a view is preposterous . 
Nature shows us the world as it is . 
But Art as a Latin author tells us Art , you know the words have escaped my memory Ars est celare Naturam , Arthur interposed with a delightful promptitude . 
Quite so ! the orator replied with an air of relief . 
I thank you ! Ars est celare Naturam but that isn't it . 
And , for a few peaceful moments , the orator brooded , frowningly , over the quotation . 
The welcome opportunity was seized , and another voice struck into the silence . 
And don't you admire those autumn tints on the trees ? I do , intensely ! Lady Muriel shot a meaning glance at me but replied with admirable gravity . 
Oh , yes ! Isn't it a sweet Science ? Arthur slightly smiled . 
It seems a paradox , does it not , he went on , that the image formed on the Retina should be inverted ? It is puzzling , she candidly admitted . 
What we call the vertex of the Brain is really its base and what we call its base is really its vertex it is simply a question of nomenclature . 
This last polysyllable settled the matter . 
How truly delightful ! the fair Scientist exclaimed with enthusiasm . 
Then I supplied myself with a plate of something solid and a glass of something fluid , and found a place next to Lady Muriel . 
Arthur was bearing it bravely but several faces wore a look of alarm , and I thought it high time to start some less metaphysical topic . 
In my nursery days , I began , when the weather didn't suit for an out of doors picnic , we were allowed to have a peculiar kind , that we enjoyed hugely . 
There's nothing a well regulated child hates so much as regularity . 
The chance of a shower ? I suggested . 
No , the chance or rather the certainty of live things occurring in combination with one's food ! Spiders are my bugbear . 
Now my father has no sympathy with that sentiment have you , dear ? For the Earl had caught the word and turned to listen . 
To each his sufferings , all are men , he replied in the sweet sad tones that seemed natural to him each has his pet aversion . 
But you'll never guess his ! Lady Muriel said , with that delicate silvery laugh that was music to my ears . 
I declined to attempt the impossible . 
He doesn't like snakes ! she said , in a stage whisper . 
Now , isn't that an unreasonable aversion ? Fancy not liking such a dear , coaxingly , clingingly affectionate creature as a snake ! Not like snakes ! I exclaimed . 
Is such a thing possible ? No , he doesn't like them , she repeated with a pretty mock gravity . 
He's not afraid of them , you know . 
But he doesn't like them . 
He says they're too waggly ! I was more startled than I liked to show . 
Won't you sing us something , Lady Muriel ? I know you do sing without music . 
There be three Herrings loitering around , Longing to share that mossy seat Each Herring tries to sing what she has found That makes Life seem so sweet . 
'Yes 'm , the Badger said 'it's as you say . 
'They should be better kept . 
Thus the poor parents talked the time away , And wept , and wept , and wept . 
Here Bruno broke off suddenly . 
The Herrings' Song wants anuvver tune , Sylvie , he said . 
And I ca'n't sing it not wizout oo plays it for me ! Image . 
I can do the uvver tune much better wizout a compliment . 
He means 'without accompaniment , Sylvie whispered , smiling at my puzzled look and she pretended to shut up the stops of the organ . 
'With tongs , yea , tongs , and tongs ! I ought to mention that he marked the parenthesis , in the air , with his finger . 
It seemed to me a very good plan . 
You know there's no sound to represent it any more than there is for a question . 
in the air with your finger ? He would understand you in a moment ! Image . 
'Those aged one waxed gay' 'And are not these the Fish , the Eldest sighed , 'Whose Mother dwells beneath the foam' 'They are the Fish ! the Second one replied . 
So it did break at last . 
And I knew it would ! she added quietly , as I started at the sudden crash of broken glass . 
QUEER STREET , NUMBER FORTY . 
Lady Muriel was the speaker . 
And , for the moment , that was the only fact I could clearly realise . 
'First accumulate a mass of Facts and then construct a Theory . 
That , I believe , is the true Scientific Method . 
I sat up , rubbed my eves , and began to accumulate Facts . 
And now , what deep , far reaching Theory was he to construct from them ? The Researcher found himself at fault . 
Yet stay ! One Fact had escaped his notice . 
Here was a Fact indeed ! The Researcher felt that a Theory must be constructed without delay . 
Lady Muriel had just risen and left the party . 
Could that be the cause of his despondency ? The Theory hardly rose to the dignity of a Working Hypothesis . 
Clearly more Facts were needed . 
The Researcher looked round him once more and now the Facts accumulated in such bewildering profusion , that the Theory was lost among them . 
Verily , the Theory looked gloomy for Arthur ! His eye caught mine , and he crossed to me . 
He is very handsome , I said . 
Abominably handsome ! muttered Arthur then smiled at his own bitter words . 
Arthur shook off his ill temper instantly and completely , as he rose and gave the young soldier his hand . 
I have heard of you , he said . 
I'm very glad to make the acquaintance of Lady Muriel's cousin . 
And I doubt , glancing at Lady Muriel , if it even amounts to a good conduct badge ! But it's something to begin with . 
You must come to my father , Eric , said Lady Muriel . 
I think he's wandering among the ruins . 
And the pair moved on . 
No physical difficulty , she confidently replied but I haven't studied Logic much . 
I grasp both truths by intuition . 
But other minds may need some logical I forget the technical terms . 
For a complete logical argument , Arthur began with admirable solemnity , we need two prim Misses Of course ! she interrupted . 
I remember that word now . 
And they produce ? A Delusion , said Arthur . 
Ye es ? she said dubiously . 
I don't seem to remember that so well . 
But what is the whole argument called ? A Sillygism ? Ah , yes ! I remember now . 
But I don't need a Sillygism , you know , to prove that mathematical axiom you mentioned . 
I felt really uneasy at the thought that she might detect the trick and I contrived , unperceived by her , to shake my head reprovingly at the pseudo philosopher . 
Of this solution there did not seem to be the very smallest probability . 
The next best solution , it seemed to me , was that I should walk home and this I at once proposed . 
You're sure you don't mind ? , said the Earl . 
I'm afraid the carriage wont take us all , and I don't like to suggest to Eric to desert his cousin so soon . 
So far from minding it , I said , I should prefer it . 
It will give me time to sketch this beautiful old ruin . 
I'll keep you company , Arthur suddenly said . 
And , in answer to what I suppose was a look of surprise on my face , he said in a low voice , I really would rather . 
I shall be quite de trop in the carriage ! I think I'll walk too , said the Earl . 
You'll have to be content with Eric as your escort , he added , to Lady Muriel , who had joined us while he was speaking . 
You must be as entertaining as Cerberus 'three gentlemen rolled into one' Lady Muriel said to her companion . 
It will be a grand military exploit ! A sort of Forlorn Hope ? the Captain modestly suggested . 
You do pay pretty compliments ! laughed his fair cousin . 
Good day to you , gentlemen three or rather deserters three ! And the two young folk entered the carriage and were driven away . 
How long will your sketch take ? said Arthur . 
Well , I said , I should like an hour for it . 
Don't you think you had better go without me ? I'll return by train . 
I know there's one in about an hour's time . 
Perhaps that would be best , said the Earl . 
The Station is quite close . 
So I was left to my own devices , and soon found a comfortable seat , at the foot of a tree , from which I had a good view of the ruins . 
It is a very drowsy day , I said to myself , idly turning over the leaves of the sketch book to find a blank page . 
Why , I thought you were a mile off by this time ! For , to my surprise , the two walkers were back again . 
I came back to remind you , Arthur said , that the trains go every ten minutes Nonsense ! I said . 
It isn't the Metropolitan Railway ! It is the Metropolitan Railway , the Earl insisted . 
'This is a part of Kensington . 
Why do you talk with your eyes shut ? said Arthur . 
Wake up ! I think it's the heat makes me so drowsy , I said , hoping , but not feeling quite sure , that I was talking sense . 
Am I awake now ? I think not , the Earl judicially pronounced . 
What do you think , Doctor ? He's only got one eye open ! And he's snoring like anything ! cried Bruno . 
And at last the Professor opened his eyes , and sat up , blinking at us with eyes of utter bewilderment . 
Sir and this is Bruno . 
Ah , yes ! I know them well enough ! the old man murmured . 
Its myself I'm most anxious about . 
True , true ! the Professor replied . 
That's the Problem , no doubt . 
Viewed as a Problem , outside of oneself , it is a most interesting one . 
Didn't oo know that ? Oo've come from Outland ! And it's ever so far away from here ! The Professor leapt to his feet with the agility of a boy . 
Then there's no time to lose ! he exclaimed anxiously . 
I'll just ask this guileless peasant , with his brace of buckets that contain water , if he'll be so kind as to direct us . 
Guileless peasant ! he proceeded in a louder voice . 
Would you tell us the way to Outland ? The guileless peasant turned with a sheepish grin . 
Hey ? was all he said . 
The way to Outland ! the Professor repeated . 
The guileless peasant set down his buckets and considered . 
Ah dunnot I ought to mention , the Professor hastily put in , that whatever you say will be used in evidence against you . 
The guileless peasant instantly resumed his buckets . 
Then ah says nowt ! he answered briskly , and walked away at a great pace . 
The children gazed sadly at the rapidly vanishing figure . 
He goes very quick ! the Professor said with a sigh . 
But I know that was the right thing to say . 
I've studied your English Laws . 
However , let's ask this next man that's coming . 
He is not guileless , and he is not a peasant but I don't know that either point is of vital importance . 
And , as such , Eric Lindon accepted him instantly . 
He took the cigar from his mouth , and delicately shook off the ash , while he considered . 
The name sounds strange to me , he said . 
I doubt if I can help you ? It is not very far from Fairyland , the Professor suggested . 
But what a jolly old patriarch it is ! Then he turned to the children . 
And ca'n't you help him , little folk ? he said , with a gentleness of tone that seemed to win their hearts at once . 
Surely you know all about it ? 'How many miles to Babylon ? Three score miles and ten . 
We don't want to get to Babylon , oo know ! Bruno explained as he swung . 
And it isn't candlelight it's daylight ! Sylvie added , giving the swing a push of extra vigour , which nearly took the whole machine off its balance . 
By this time it was clear to me that Eric Lindon was quite unconscious of my presence . 
Even the Professor and the children seemed to have lost sight of me and I stood in the midst of the group , as unconcernedly as a ghost , seeing but unseen . 
How perfectly isochronous ! the Professor exclaimed with enthusiasm . 
He had his watch in his hand , and was carefully counting Bruno's oscillations . 
He measures time quite as accurately as a pendulum ! Image . 
Meanwhile you'd better take this old gentleman to Queer Street , Number We'll find it ! cried Bruno eagerly , as they dragged the Professor away . 
We are much indebted to you ! the Professor said , looking over his shoulder . 
Don't mention it ! replied the officer , raising his hat as a parting salute . 
What number did you say ! the Professor called from the distance . 
The officer made a trumpet of his two hands . 
Forty ! he shouted in stentorian tones . 
And not piano , by any means ! he added to himself . 
It's a mad world , my masters , a mad world ! He lit another cigar , and strolled on towards his hotel . 
What a lovely evening ! I said , joining him as he passed me . 
Lovely indeed , he said . 
Where did you come from ? Dropped from the clouds ? I'm strolling your way , I said and no further explanation seemed necessary . 
Have a cigar ? Thanks I'm not a smoker . 
Is there a Lunatic Asylum near here ? Not that I know of . 
Met a lunatic just now . 
Queer old fish as ever I saw ! And so , in friendly chat , we took our homeward ways , and wished each other 'good night' at the door of his hotel . 
Left to myself , I felt the 'eerie' feeling rush over me again , and saw , standing at the door of Number Forty , the three figures I knew so well . 
Then it's the wrong house ? Bruno was saying . 
No , no ! It's the right house , the Professor cheerfully replied but it's the wrong street . 
That's where we've made our mistake ! Our best plan , now , will be to It was over . 
The street was empty , Commonplace life was around me , and the 'eerie' feeling had fled . 
HOW TO MAKE A PHLIZZ . 
Eric , who was strolling in the garden , gave us a good report of the invalid , who was still in bed , with Lady Muriel in attendance . 
Are you coming with us to church ? I enquired . 
Thanks , no , he courteously replied . 
It's not exactly in my line , you know . 
It's an excellent institution for the poor . 
When I'm with my own folk , I go , just to set them an example . 
But I'm not known here so I think I'll excuse myself sitting out a sermon . 
Country preachers are always so dull ! Arthur was silent till we were out of hearing . 
Then he said to himself , almost inaudibly , Where two or three are gathered together in my name , there am I in the midst of them . 
Yes , I assented no doubt that is the principle on which church going rests . 
'Surely the Lord is in this place ! This is none other but the house of God , and this is the gate of heaven . 
Yes , said Arthur , apparently in answer to my thoughts , those 'high' services are fast becoming pure Formalism . 
More and more the people are beginning to regard them as 'performances , in which they only 'assist' in the French sense . 
And it is specially bad for the little boys . 
They'd be much less self conscious as pantomime fairies . 
Eric had gone for a stroll . 
We joined them , and the conversation soon turned on the sermon we had just heard , the subject of which was 'selfishness . 
At that time , he went on , a great tidal wave of selfishness was sweeping over human thought . 
Right and Wrong had somehow been transformed into Gain and Loss , and Religion had become a sort of commercial transaction . 
We may be thankful that our preachers are beginning to take a nobler view of life . 
But is it not taught again and again in the Bible ? I ventured to ask . 
Not in the Bible as a whole , said Arthur . 
In the Old Testament , no doubt , rewards and punishments are constantly appealed to as motives for action . 
That teaching is best for children , and the Israelites seem to have been , mentally , utter children . 
We were silent for awhile , and then Arthur went off on another tack . 
Look at the literature of Hymns , now . 
And the very last charity sermon I heard was infected with it . 
We put our man into a pulpit , and we virtually tell him 'Now , you may stand there and talk to us for half an hour . 
Lady Muriel walked with us to the gate . 
You have given me much to think about , she said earnestly , as she gave Arthur her hand . 
I'm so glad you came in ! And her words brought a real glow of pleasure into that pale worn face of his . 
On my way back , I passed the Station just as the afternoon train came in sight , and sauntered down the stairs to see it come in . 
of much illness and suffering , sweetly and patiently borne . 
The servant paused , doubtfully glancing from her charge to me , and then back again to the child . 
Would you like it , dear ? she asked her . 
But no such doubt appeared to cross the child's mind she lifted her arms eagerly to be taken up . 
Please ! was all she said , while a faint smile flickered on the weary little face . 
I took her up with scrupulous care , and her little arm was at once clasped trustfully round my neck . 
Indeed it's troubling you too much , Sir ! the maid exclaimed . 
She can walk very well on the flat . 
But the arm , that was twined about my neck , clung just an atom more closely at the suggestion , and decided me to say She's no weight , really . 
I'll carry her a little further . 
Give us a 'ap'ny ! the little urchin pleaded , with a broad grin on his dirty face . 
Don't give him a 'ap'ny ! said the little lady in my arms . 
The words sounded harsh but the tone was gentleness itself . 
He's an idle little boy ! And she laughed a laugh of such silvery sweetness as I had never yet heard from any lips but Sylvie's . 
But he was back in a few moments , having discarded his broom and provided himself , from some mysterious source , with an exquisite bouquet of flowers . 
Buy a posy , buy a posy ! Only a 'ap'ny ! he chanted , with the melancholy drawl of a professional beggar . 
Don't buy it ! was Her Majesty's edict as she looked down , with a lofty scorn that seemed curiously mixed with tender interest , on the ragged creature at her feet . 
But this time I turned rebel , and ignored the royal commands . 
Such lovely flowers , and of forms so entirely new to me , were not to be abandoned at the bidding of any little maid , however imperious . 
At last I turned to the nursemaid . 
Do these flowers grow wild about here ? I never saw but the speech died away on my lips . 
The nursemaid had vanished ! You can put me down , now , if you like , Sylvie quietly remarked . 
You're larger than when I saw you last ! I began . 
Really I think we ought to be introduced again ! There's so much of you that I never met before , you know . 
Very well ! Sylvie merrily replied . 
He's only got one name ! There's another name to me ! Bruno protested , with a reproachful look at the Mistress of the Ceremonies . 
And it's Esquire' ! Oh , of course . 
I forgot , said Sylvie . 
Bruno Esquire ! And did you come here to meet me , my children ? I enquired . 
You know I said we'd come on Tuesday , Sylvie explained . 
But what became of the nursemaid ? It are gone ! Bruno solemnly replied . 
Then it wasn't solid , like Sylvie and you ? No. Oo couldn't touch it , oo know . 
If oo walked at it , oo'd go right froo ! I quite expected you'd find it out , once , said Sylvie . 
Bruno ran it against a telegraph post , by accident . 
And it went in two halves . 
But you were looking the other way . 
'It went in two halves' I didn't guess it , till it was Sylvie , I said . 
But how did You manage the nursemaid ? Bruno managed it , said Sylvie . 
And how do you make a Phlizz , Bruno ? The Professor teached me how , said Bruno . 
First oo takes a lot of air Oh , Bruno ! Sylvie interposed . 
The Professor said you weren't to tell ! But who did her voice ? I asked . 
Indeed it's troubling you too much , Sir ! She can walk very well on the flat . 
Bruno laughed merrily as I turned hastily from side to side , looking in all directions for the speaker . 
That were me ! he gleefully proclaimed , in his own voice . 
She can indeed walk very well on the flat , I said . 
And I think I was the Flat . 
By this time we were near the Hall . 
This is where my friends live , I said . 
Will you come in and have some tea with them ? Bruno gave a little jump of joy and Sylvie said Yes , please . 
You'd like some tea , Bruno , wouldn't you ? He hasn't tasted tea , she explained to me , since we left Outland . 
And that weren't good tea ! said Bruno . 
It were so welly weak ! CHAPTER . 
LIGHT COME , LIGHT GO . 
Lady Muriel's smile of welcome could not quite conceal the look of surprise with which she regarded my new companions . 
I presented them in due form . 
This is Sylvie , Lady Muriel . 
Any surname ? she enquired , her eyes twinkling with fun . 
No , I said gravely . 
She laughed , evidently thinking I said it in fun and stooped to kiss the children a salute to which Bruno submitted with reluctance Sylvie returned it with interest . 
supplied the children with tea and cake , I tried to engage the Earl in conversation but he was restless and distrait , and we made little progress . 
At last , by a sudden question , he betrayed the cause of his disquiet . 
Would you let me look at those flowers you have in your hand ? Willingly ! I said , handing him the bouquet . 
They did not diminish his disquiet . 
On the contrary , he became every moment more excited as he turned them over . 
These are all from Central India ! he said , laying aside part of the bouquet . 
They are rare , even there and I have never seen them in any other part of the world . 
I am nearly sure but I have a book of Indian Botany here He took a volume from the book shelves , and turned the leaves with trembling fingers . 
Let me give you the flowers ! I stammered out at last , quite 'at my wit's end' as to how to get out of the difficulty . 
To Arthur , however , the new comer was , I saw clearly , anything but welcome . 
Do just try this one ! he pleaded . 
The music looks easy to sing at sight , and the song's quite appropriate to the occasion . 
Not quite and yet it is a kind of 'ever to thee faithful I'll be ! It's a pair of hapless lovers he crosses the briny deep and she is left lamenting . 
That is indeed appropriate ! she replied mockingly , as he placed the song before her . 
Soldiers , sailors , tinkers , tailors , what a lot of words would fit in ! I think 'my tinker lad sounds best . 
Don't you ? To spare my friend further pain , I rose to go , just as the Earl was beginning to repeat his particularly embarrassing question about the flowers . 
You have not yet Yes , I've had some tea , thank you ! I hastily interrupted him . 
And now we really must be going . 
Good evening , Lady Muriel ! And we made our adieux , and escaped , while the Earl was still absorbed in examining the mysterious bouquet . 
Lady Muriel accompanied us to the door . 
You couldn't have given my father a more acceptable present ! she said , warmly . 
He is so passionately fond of Botany . 
I'm afraid I know nothing of the theory of it , but I keep his Hortus Siccus in order . 
I must get some sheets of blotting paper , and dry these new treasures for him before they fade . 
That won't be no good at all ! said Bruno , who was waiting for us in the garden . 
The nosegay was only a Phlizz , you know . 
These last words were in a whisper , as she evidently did not wish Arthur to hear . 
The Accessories before the Fact decline to answer any questions , I gravely replied . 
And they reserve their defence . 
Somebody must have entered by the window But the fastenings have not been tampered with , said the Earl . 
It must have been while you were dining , my Lady , said the housekeeper . 
That was it , said the Earl . 
The thief must have seen you bring the flowers , turning to me , and have noticed that you did not take them away . 
And he must have known their great value they are simply priceless ! he exclaimed , in sudden excitement . 
And you never told us how you got them ! said Lady Muriel . 
Some day , I stammered , I may be free to tell you . 
Just now , would you excuse me ? The Earl looked disappointed , but kindly said Very well , we will ask no questions . 
Five o'clock tea But we consider you a very bad Queen's Evidence , Lady Muriel added playfully , as we entered the arbour . 
We pronounce you to be an accomplice and we sentence you to solitary confinement , and to be fed on bread and butter . 
But the last event is practically an effect of the first , isn't it ? And yet you call it a cause of it ! Arthur pondered a moment . 
The words are rather confusing , I grant you , he said . 
Will this do ? The last event is an effect of the first but the necessity for that event is a cause of the necessity for the first . 
That seems clear enough , said Lady Muriel . 
Now let us have the problem . 
of living creatures has its special shape ? For instance , the human race has one kind of shape bipeds . 
Another set , ranging from the lion to the mouse , are quadrupeds . 
Never mind the monotony of it let's see how it would work in other ways . 
We can dispense with them , she said gravely . 
Well , then we'll have a second race of men , half a yard high who would have one source of exquisite enjoyment , not possessed by ordinary men ! Arthur interrupted . 
What source ? said the Earl . 
Halve my height , and you produce the same effect . 
Happy , happy , happy Small ! Lady Muriel murmured rapturously . 
None but the Short , none but the Short , none but the Short enjoy the Tall ! But let me go on , said the Earl . 
We'll have a third race of men , five inches high a fourth race , an inch high They couldn't eat common beef and mutton , I'm sure ! Lady Muriel interrupted . 
True , my child , I was forgetting . 
Each set must have its own cattle and sheep . 
And its own vegetation , I added . 
What could a cow , an inch high , do with grass that waved far above its head ? That is true . 
We must have a pasture within a pasture , so to speak . 
The common grass would serve our inch high cows as a green forest of palms , while round the root of each tall stem would stretch a tiny carpet of microscopic grass . 
Yes , I think our scheme will work fairly well . 
And it would be very interesting , coming into contact with the races below us . 
Would they make war on one another , for instance , or enter into treaties ? War we must exclude , I think . 
When you could crush a whole nation with one blow of your fist , you couldn't conduct war on equal terms . 
But anything , involving a collision of minds only , would be possible in our ideal world for of course we must allow mental powers to all , irrespective of size . 
An argument doesn't depend for its logical force on the size of the creature that utters it ! She tossed her head indignantly . 
I would not argue with any man less than six inches high ! she cried . 
I'd make him work ! What at ? said Arthur , listening to all this nonsense with an amused smile . 
Embroidery ! she readily replied . 
What lovely embroidery they would do ! Yet , if they did it wrong , I said , you couldn't argue the question . 
I don't know why but I agree that it couldn't be done . 
The reason is , said Lady Muriel , one couldn't sacrifice one's dignity so far . 
Of course one couldn't ! echoed Arthur . 
Any more than one could argue with a potato . 
It would be altogether excuse the ancient pun infra dig . 
! I doubt it , said I. Even a pun doesn't quite convince me . 
I felt the remark was not so sensible as I should have liked it to be . 
But Lady Muriel seemed to take it quite as a matter of course . 
In that case she began , but suddenly started , and turned away to listen . 
Don't you hear him ? she said . 
We must go to him , somehow . 
And I said to myself That's very strange . 
I quite thought it was Lady Muriel talking to me . 
Why , it's Sylvie all the while ! And I made another great effort to say something that should have some meaning in it . 
Is it about the potato ? CHAPTER . 
I don't know , said Sylvie . 
Hush ! I must think . 
I could go to him , by myself , well enough . 
But I want you to come too . 
Let me go with you , I pleaded . 
I can walk as fast as you can , I'm sure . 
What nonsense ! she cried . 
Why , you ca'n't walk a bit ! You're lying quite flat on your back ! You don't understand these things . 
I can walk as well as you can , I repeated . 
And I tried my best to walk a few steps but the ground slipped away backwards , quite as fast as I could walk , so that I made no progress at all . 
There , I told you so ! You've no idea how funny you look , moving your feet about in the air , as if you were walking ! Wait a bit . 
I'll ask the Professor what we'd better do . 
And she knocked at his study door . 
The door opened , and the Professor looked out . 
What's that crying I heard just now ? he asked . 
Is it a human animal ? It's a boy , Sylvie said . 
I'm afraid you've been teasing him ? No , indeed I haven't ! Sylvie said , very earnestly . 
I never tease him ! Well , I must ask the Other Professor about it . 
The Professor came out again . 
Which Boy is it that you haven't been teasing ? Sylvie looked at me with twinkling eyes . 
You dear old thing ! she exclaimed , standing on tiptoe to kiss him , while he gravely stooped to receive the salute . 
It's Bruno that's crying and he's my brother and , please , we both want to go he ca'n't walk , you know he's he's dreaming , you know . 
Do let's go through the Ivory Door ! I'll ask him , said the Professor , disappearing again . 
Follow me , and walk on tip toe . 
The difficulty with me would have been , just then , not to walk on tip toe . 
It seemed very hard to reach down far enough to just touch the floor , as Sylvie led me through the study . 
The Professor went before us to unlock the Ivory Door . 
Bruno was standing with his hands over his face , crying bitterly . 
'What's the matter , darling ? What's the matter , darling ? said Sylvie , with her arms round his neck . 
Hurted mine self welly much ! sobbed the poor little fellow . 
I'm so sorry , darling ! How ever did you manage to hurt yourself so ? Course I managed it ! said Bruno , laughing through his tears . 
Doos oo think nobody else but oo ca'n't manage things ? Matters were looking distinctly brighter , now Bruno had begun to argue . 
Come , let's hear all about it ! I said . 
My foot took it into its head to slip Bruno began . 
A foot hasn't got a head ! Sylvie put in , but all in vain . 
I slipted down the bank . 
And I tripted over a stone . 
And the stone hurted my foot ! And I trod on a Bee . 
And the Bee stinged my finger ! Poor Bruno sobbed again . 
The complete list of woes was too much for his feelings . 
And it knewed I didn't mean to trod on it ! he added , as the climax . 
That Bee should be ashamed of itself ! I said severely , and Sylvie hugged and kissed the wounded hero till all tears were dried . 
My finger's quite unstung now ! said Bruno . 
Why doos there be stones ? Mister Sir , doos oo know ? They're good for something , I said even if we don't know what . 
What's the good of dandelions , now ? Dindledums ? said Bruno . 
Oh , they're ever so pretty ! And stones aren't pretty , one bit . 
Would oo like some dindledums , Mister Sir ? Bruno ! Sylvie murmured reproachfully . 
Ah , but I is doing bofe , Miss Praticular ! Bruno exclaimed triumphantly . 
I wishted to speak about the Gemplun and I wishted to speak to the Gemplun . 
So a course I said 'Mister Sir' ! That's all right , Bruno , I said . 
Course it's all right ! said Bruno . 
Sylvie just knows nuffin at all ! There never was an impertinenter boy ! said Sylvie , frowning till her bright eyes were nearly invisible . 
And there never was an ignoranter girl ! retorted Bruno . 
Come along and pick some dindledums . 
That's all she's fit for ! he added in a very loud whisper to me . 
But why do you say 'Dindledums , Bruno ? Dandelions is the right word . 
It's because he jumps about so , Sylvie said , laughing . 
Yes , that's it , Bruno assented . 
But aren't you going to pick me any dindledums , after all ? Course we will ! cried Bruno . 
Come along , Sylvie ! And the happy children raced away , bounding over the turf with the fleetness and grace of young antelopes . 
Then you didn't find your way back to Outland ? I said to the Professor . 
Oh yes , I did ! he replied , We never got to Queer Street but I found another way . 
I've been backwards and forwards several times since then . 
I had to be present at the Election , you know , as the author of the new Money act . 
The Emperor was so kind as to wish that I should have the credit of it . 
Is the Warden supposed to be dead ? Well , it's supposed so but , mind you , I don't believe it ! The evidence is very weak mere hear say . 
has been telling people he comes from Fairyland , and that the Warden died there . 
I wanted the Vice Warden to question him , but , most unluckily , he and my Lady were always out walking when the Jester came round . 
Yes , the Warden's supposed to be dead ! And more tears trickled down the old man's cheeks . 
But what is the new Money Act ? The Professor brightened up again . 
The Emperor started the thing , he said . 
He wanted to make everybody in Outland twice as rich as he was before just to make the new Government popular . 
Only there wasn't nearly enough money in the Treasury to do it . 
So I suggested that he might do it by doubling the value of every coin and bank note in Outland . 
It's the simplest thing possible . 
I wonder nobody ever thought of it before ! And you never saw such universal joy . 
The shops are full from morning to night . 
Everybody's buying everything ! And how was the glorifying done ? A sudden gloom overcast the Professor's jolly face . 
They did it as I went home after the Election , he mournfully replied . 
How far is it to Outland ? I asked , to change the subject . 
But one must go back occasionally . 
You see , as Court Professor , I have to be always in attendance on Prince Uggug . 
The Empress would be very angry if I left him , even for an hour . 
But surely , every time you come here , you are absent ten days , at least ? Oh , more than that ! the Professor exclaimed . 
Silently the Professor drew front his pocket a square gold watch , with six or eight hands , and held it out for my inspection . 
This , he began , is an Outlandish Watch So I should have thought . 
which has the peculiar property that , instead of its going with the time , the time goes with it . 
I trust you understand me now ? Hardly , I said . 
So long as it is let alone , it takes its own course . 
Time has no effect upon it . 
I have known such watches , I remarked . 
It goes , of course , at the usual rate . 
Only the time has to go with it . 
Hence , if I move the hands , I change the time . 
To move them forwards , in advance of the true time , is impossible but I can move them as much as a month backwards that is the limit . 
And then you have the events all over again with any alterations experience may suggest . 
Hurted mine self welly much ! Shrilly and suddenly the words rang in my ears , and , more startled than I cared to show , I turned to look for the speaker . 
In a moment Sylvie and Bruno were gone again , and I could just see them in the far distance , picking 'dindledums . 
Wonderful , indeed ! I exclaimed . 
It has another property , yet more wonderful , said the Professor . 
You see this little peg ? That is called the 'Reversal Peg . 
If you push it in , the events of the next hour happen in the reverse order . 
Do not try it now . 
I will lend you the Watch for a few days , and you can amuse yourself with experiments . 
Thank you very much ! I said as he gave me the Watch . 
And here's a big blackberry for ooself ! We couldn't only find but two ! Thank you it's very nice , I said . 
And I suppose you ate the other , Bruno ? No , I didn't , Bruno said , carelessly . 
Aren't they pretty dindledums , Mister Sir ? Yes , very but what makes you limp so , my child ? Mine foot's come hurted again ! Bruno mournfully replied . 
And he sat down on the ground , and began nursing it . 
The Professor held his head between his hands an attitude that I knew indicated distraction of mind . 
Better rest a minute , he said . 
It may be better then or it may be worse . 
If only I had some of my medicines here ! I'm Court Physician , you know , he added , aside to me . 
Shall I go and get you some blackberries , darling ? Sylvie whispered , with her arms round his neck and she kissed away a tear that was trickling down his cheek . 
Bruno brightened up in a moment . 
That are a good plan ! he exclaimed . 
I thinks my foot would come quite unhurted , if I eated a blackberry two or three blackberries six or seven blackberries Sylvie got up hastily . 
I'd better go she said , aside to me , before he gets into the double figures ! Let me come and help you , I said . 
I can reach higher up than you can . 
Yes , please , said Sylvie , putting her hand into mine and we walked off together . 
No I saw that , said Sylvie . 
He's always afraid of being praised . 
It's a hare , my child . 
No , it isn't asleep , Sylvie said , timidly going nearer to look at it it's eyes are open . 
Poor thing ! I think it's been hunted to death . 
I know the harriers were out yesterday . 
But they haven't touched it . 
Perhaps they caught sight of another , and left it to die of fright and exhaustion . 
Hunted to death ? Sylvie repeated to herself , very slowly and sadly . 
I thought hunting was a thing they played at like a game . 
Bruno and I hunt snails but we never hurt them when we catch them ! Sweet angel ! I thought . 
You know what fierce wild beasts lions and tigers are ? Sylvie nodded . 
Well , in some countries men have to kill them , to save their own lives , you know . 
Yes , said Sylvie if one tried to kill me , Bruno would kill it if he could . 
Well , and so the men the hunters get to enjoy it , you know the running , and the fighting , and the shouting , and the danger . 
Well , but , in this country , there aren't any lions and tigers , loose so they hunt other creatures , you see . 
I hoped , but in vain , that this would satisfy her , and that she would ask no more questions . 
They hunt foxes , Sylvie said , thoughtfully . 
And I think they kill them , too . 
I daresay men don't love them . 
Are hares fierce ? No , I said . 
A hare is a sweet , gentle , timid animal almost as gentle as a lamb . 
But , if men love hares , why why her voice quivered , and her sweet eyes were brimming over with tears . 
I'm afraid they don't love them , dear child . 
All children love them , Sylvie said . 
I'm afraid even ladies go to hunt them , sometimes . 
Oh , no , not ladies ! she earnestly pleaded . 
Not Lady Muriel ! No , she never does , I'm sure but this is too sad a sight for you , dear . 
Let's try and find some But Sylvie was not satisfied yet . 
In a hushed , solemn tone , with bowed head and clasped hands , she put her final question . 
Does GOD love hares ? Yes ! I said . 
I'm sure He does ! He loves every living thing . 
How much more the animals , that cannot sin ! I don't know what 'sin' means , said Sylvie . 
And I didn't try to explain it . 
Come , my child , I said , trying to lead her away . 
Wish good bye to the poor hare , and come and look for blackberries . 
Good bye , poor hare ! Sylvie obediently repeated , looking over her shoulder at it as we turned away . 
And then , all in a moment , her self command gave way . 
Oh , my darling , my darling ! she moaned , over and over again . 
I did not dare to speak again , just yet but simply held out my hand to her , that we might quit the melancholy spot . 
Yes , I'll come now , she said . 
Very reverently she kneeled down , and kissed the dead hare then rose and gave me her hand , and we moved on in silence . 
Just before we came within hearing distance Sylvie checked me . 
Please don't tell Bruno about the hare ! she said . 
Very well , my child . 
But why not ? Tears again glittered in those sweet eyes and she turned her head away so that I could scarcely hear her reply . 
He's he's very fond of gentle creatures you know . 
And he'd he'd be so sorry ! I don't want him to be made sorry . 
And your agony of sorrow is to count for nothing , then , sweet unselfish child ! I thought to myself . 
I'm afraid it's getting rather late , Professor ? I said . 
Yes , indeed , said the Professor . 
I must take you all through the Ivory Door again . 
You've stayed your full time . 
Mightn't we stay a little longer ! pleaded Sylvie . 
Just one minute ! added Bruno . 
But the Professor was unyielding . 
It's a great privilege , coming through at all , he said . 
And we followed him obediently to the Ivory Door , which he threw open , and signed to me to go through first . 
You're coming too , aren't you ? I said to Sylvie . 
Yes , she said but you won't see us after you've gone through . 
But suppose I wait for you outside ? I asked , as I stepped through the doorway . 
In that case , said Sylvie , I think the potato would be quite justified in asking your weight . 
I can quite imagine a really superior kidney potato declining to argue with any one under fifteen stone ! With a great effort I recovered the thread of my thoughts . 
We lapse very quickly into nonsense ! I said . 
Let us lapse back again , said Lady Muriel . 
When , a few minutes afterwards , we left the house , Arthur's first remark was certainly a strange one . 
For some cause , which I could not at the moment divine , Arthur was unusually grave and silent during our walk home . 
Can he have heard any bad news ? I said to myself . 
And , almost as if he had read my thoughts , he spoke . 
He will be here by the last train , he said , in the tone of one who is continuing a conversation rather than beginning one . 
Captain Lindon , do you mean ? Yes Captain Lindon , said Arthur I said 'he , because I fancied we were talking about him . 
The Earl told me he comes tonight , though to morrow is the day when he will know about the Commission that he's hoping for . 
I wonder he doesn't stay another day to hear the result , if he's really so anxious about it as the Earl believes he is . 
I'm not good company to night better be alone . 
It was much the same , next day . 
Arthur declared he wasn't fit for Society , and I had to set forth alone for an afternoon stroll . 
Will you join us ? the Earl said , after I had exchanged greetings with him , and Lady Muriel , and Captain Lindon . 
This restless young man is expecting a telegram , and we are going to the Station to meet it . 
There is also a restless young woman in the case , Lady Muriel added . 
That goes without saying , my child , said her father . 
And when are we to see your little friends again ? said the Earl . 
They are singularly attractive children . 
I shall be delighted to bring them , when I can , I said ! But I don't know , myself , when I am likely to see them again . 
Some day I may be able to enlighten her but just at present Thanks . 
She must bear it as best she can . 
I tell her it's a grand opportunity for practising patience . 
But she hardly sees it from that point of view . 
at a stile , which they could not have climbed over more than a few moments , as Lady Muriel and her cousin had passed it without seeing them . 
And what shall you use it for , Bruno ? I said . 
Don't know , Bruno carelessly replied must think . 
A child's first view of life , the Earl remarked , with that sweet sad smile of his , is that it is a period to be spent in accumulating portable property . 
That view gets modified as the years glide away . 
And he held out his hand to Sylvie , who had placed herself by me , looking a little shy of him . 
Lady Muriel looked from one to the other in blank astonishment . 
What , you know them , Eric ? she exclaimed . 
This mystery grows deeper every day ! Then we must be somewhere in the Third Act , said Eric . 
You don't expect the mystery to be cleared up till the Fifth Act , do you ? But it's such a long drama ! was the plaintive reply . 
We must have got to the Fifth Act by this time ! Third Act , I assure you , said the young soldier mercilessly . 
Scene , a railway platform . 
and here stands his humble Servant ! What is your Royal Highness next command . 
? And he made a most courtier like low bow to his puzzled little friend . 
Oo're not a Servant ! Bruno scornfully exclaimed . 
Oo're a Gemplun ! Servant , I assure your Royal Highness ! Eric respectfully insisted . 
Allow me to mention to your Royal Highness my various situations past , present , and future . 
What did oo begin wiz ? Bruno asked , beginning to enter into the jest . 
But Lady Muriel heard him not something had gone wrong with her glove , which entirely engrossed her attention . 
Did oo get the place ? said Bruno . 
Sylvie dear , do help me to button this glove ! Lady Muriel whispered , hastily stooping down , and failing to hear the question . 
And what will oo be next ? said Bruno . 
My next place will , I hope , be that of Groom . 
And after that Don't puzzle the child so ! Lady Muriel interrupted . 
What nonsense you talk ! after that , Eric persisted , I hope to obtain the situation of Housekeeper , which Fourth Act ! he proclaimed , with a sudden change of tone . 
Did you ever make real life into a drama ? said the Earl . 
I've often amused myself that way . 
Consider this platform as our stage . 
Good entrances and exits on both sides , you see . 
Capital background scene real engine moving up and down . 
No repetition ! It really was admirable , as soon as I began to enter into it from this point of view . 
Even a porter passing , with a barrow piled with luggage , seemed so realistic that one was tempted to applaud . 
And he was followed , in his turn , by a frightened little nursemaid , carrying a fat baby , also screaming . 
Capital byplay ! said the old man aside . 
Did you notice the nursemaid's look of terror ? It was simply perfect ! You have struck quite a new vein , I said . 
To most of us Life and its pleasures seem like a mine that is nearly worked out . 
Worked out ! exclaimed the Earl . 
For any one with true dramatic instincts , it is only the Overture that is ended ! The real treat has yet to begin . 
There is nothing to pay on receiving a telegram ! Shall we enquire for one ? And he and Lady Muriel strolled off in the direction of the Telegraph Office . 
I wonder if Shakespeare had that thought in his mind , I said , when he wrote 'All the world's a stage' ? The old man sighed . 
And so it is , he said , look at it as you will . 
Life is indeed a drama a drama with but few encores and no bouquets ! he added dreamily . 
What I mean is intensity of thought a concentrated attention . 
We lose half the pleasure we might have in Life , by not really attending . 
Take any instance you like it doesn't matter how trivial the pleasure may be the principle is the same . 
Suppose A and B are reading the same second rate circulating library novel . 
My theory meets that case , I assure you ! A never finds out that it is rubbish , but maunders on to the end , trying to believe he's enjoying himself . 
No indeed ! I exclaimed earnestly . 
And indeed I felt as if one could not easily tire of the sweet sadness of that gentle voice . 
It is , that we should learn to take our pleasures quickly , and our pains slowly . 
But why ? I should have put it the other way , myself . 
It takes you three hours and a half to hear and enjoy an opera . 
Suppose I can take it in , and enjoy it , in half an hour . 
Why , I can enjoy seven operas , while you are listening to one ! Always supposing you have an orchestra capable of playing them , I said . 
And that orchestra has yet to be found ! The old man smiled . 
It was done by a little musical box , he quietly replied . 
After it had been wound up , the regulator , or something , broke , and it ran down , as I said , in about three seconds . 
But it must have played all the notes , you know ! Did you enjoy it ? I asked , with all the severity of a cross examining barrister . 
No , I didn't ! he candidly confessed . 
What , is the Earl tired of you already ? I said , as the children ran past me . 
No ! Sylvie replied with great emphasis . 
He wants the evening paper . 
So Bruno's going to be a little news boy ! Mind you charge a good price for it ! I called after them . 
Returning up the platform , I came upon Sylvie alone . 
Suddenly a look of horror came over her face . 
Oh , he's fallen down on the rails ! she cried , and darted past me at a speed that quite defied the hasty effort I made to stop her . 
When the cloud of dust had cleared away , and the line was once more visible , we saw with thankful hearts that the child and his deliverer were safe . 
All right ! Eric called to us cheerfully , as he recrossed the line . 
He's more frightened than hurt ! Image . 
I'll just sit down a moment he said dreamily where's Sylvie ? Sylvie ran to him , and flung her arms round his neck , sobbing as if her heart would break . 
Don't do that , my darling ! Eric murmured , with a strange look in his eyes . 
Nothing to cry about now , you know . 
But you very nearly got yourself killed for nothing ! For Bruno ! the little maiden sobbed . 
And he would have done it for me . 
Wouldn't you , Bruno ? Course I would ! Bruno said , looking round with a bewildered air . 
Lady Muriel kissed him in silence as she put him down out of her arms . 
Then she beckoned Sylvie to come and take his hand , and signed to the children to go back to where the Earl was seated . 
Tell him , she whispered with quivering lips , tell him all is well ! Then she turned to the hero of the day . 
I thought it was death , she said . 
Thank God , you are safe ! Did you see how near it was ? I saw there was just time , Eric said lightly . 
A soldier must learn to carry his life in his hand , you know . 
Shall we go to the telegraph office again ? I daresay it's come by this time . 
I'll take a stroll with the children , I said , feeling that we were a little de trop , and I'll look in , in the course of the evening . 
We must go back into the wood , now , Sylvie said , as soon as we were out of hearing . 
We ca'n't stay this size any longer . 
Then you will be quite tiny Fairies again , next time we meet ? Yes , said Sylvie but we'll be children again some day if you'll let us . 
Bruno's very anxious to see Lady Muriel again . 
She are welly nice , said Bruno . 
I shall be very glad to take you to see her again , I said . 
Hadn't I better give you back the Professor's Watch ? It'll be too large for you to carry when you're Fairies , you know . 
I was glad to see he had quite recovered from the terrible scene he had gone through . 
Oh no , it won't ! he said . 
We must go small when the sun sets . 
Good bye ! Good bye ! cried Bruno . 
But their voices sounded very far away , and , when I looked round , both children had disappeared . 
And it wants only two hours to sunset ! I said as I strolled on . 
I must make the best of my time ! CHAPTER . 
Well , good night t'ye ! And ye winna forget to send us word when your Martha writes ? Nay , ah winna forget . 
An' if she isn't suited , she can but coom back . 
Good night t'ye ! A casual observer might have thought and there ends the dialogue ! That casual observer would have been mistaken . 
Ah , she'll like 'em , I war'n' ye ! They'll not treat her bad , yer may depend . 
I waited till they were some twenty yards apart , and then put the Watch a minute back . 
The instantaneous change was startling the two figures seemed to flash back into their former places . 
isn't suited , she can but coom back . 
The driver ran out to his assistance , and he and I together raised the unfortunate cyclist and carried him into the shop . 
Delightful power of magic ! I thought . 
Oh mocking Magic Watch ! I said to myself , as I passed out of the little town , and took the seaward road that led to my lodgings . 
Here is my chance , I thought , for testing the reverse action of the Magic Watch ! I pressed the 'reversal peg' and walked in . 
They would first wonder who I was , then see me , then look down , and think no more about me . 
And as to being expelled with violence , that event would necessarily come first in this case . 
So , if I can once get in , I said to myself , all risk of expulsion will be over ! Image . 
on the four pretty faces , and they all got out pieces of needle work , and sat down . 
No one noticed me in the least , as I quietly took a chair and sat down to watch them . 
And so the work went on , steadily undoing itself , and the neatly stitched little dresses , or whatever they were , steadily falling to pieces . 
Now and then one of the children would pause , as the recovered thread became inconveniently long , wind it on a bobbin , and start again with another short end . 
However the party with the addition of a gentleman , as good natured , and as rosy , as the children seated themselves at it very contentedly . 
Their conversation was , if possible , more bewildering than their mode of dining . 
It began by the youngest girl suddenly , and without provocation , addressing her eldest sister . 
Oh , you wicked story teller ! she said . 
Here Number Three put in her oar . 
Oh , it is settled , Mother dear , really and truly ! Mary told us all about it . 
It's to be next Tuesday four weeks and three of her cousins are coming to be bride's maids and She doesn't forget it , Minnie ! the Mother laughingly replied . 
I do wish they'd get it settled ! I don't like long engagements . 
Of course we looked the other way . 
By this time I was so hopelessly confused that I gave up listening , and followed the dinner down into the kitchen . 
I told him , as we went , what had happened at the Station , but as to my further adventures I thought it best , for the present , to say nothing . 
The Earl was sitting alone when we entered . 
I am glad you are come in to keep me company , he said . 
Then the telegram has come ? I said . 
Did you not hear ? Oh , I had forgotten it came in after you left the Station . 
Yes , it's all right Eric has got his commission and , now that he has arranged matters with Muriel , he has business in town that must be seen to at once . 
What arrangement do you mean ? I asked with a sinking heart , as the thought of Arthur's crushed hopes came to my mind . 
The speaker was evidently in the room , but I had not heard the door open , and I looked round in some astonishment . 
The Earl seemed to share my surprise . 
Who spoke ? he exclaimed . 
It was I , said Arthur , looking at us with a worn , haggard face , and eyes from which the light of life seemed suddenly to have faded . 
And let me wish you joy also , dear friend , he added , looking sadly at the Earl , and speaking in the same hollow tones that had startled us so much . 
Thank you , the old man said , simply and heartily . 
Then he said more to himself than to me The heart knoweth its own bitterness . 
I never understood those words till now . 
The next few days passed wearily enough . 
Business however soon demanded my presence in town and I had to announce to Arthur that I must leave him for a while . 
But I hope to run down again in a month I added . 
I would stay now , if I could . 
I don't think it's good for you to be alone . 
No , I ca'n't face solitude , here , for long , said Arthur . 
But don't think about me . 
I have made up my mind to accept a post in India , that has been offered me . 
Out there , I suppose I shall find something to live for I ca'n't see anything at present . 
A far heavier one than mine , said Arthur . 
The woman he loved proved false . 
There is no such cloud as that on my memory of of He left the name unuttered , and went on hurriedly . 
But you will return , will you not ? Yes , I shall come back for a short time . 
Do , said Arthur and you shall write and tell me of our friends . 
I'll send you my address when I'm settled down . 
I had but to stretch myself on the smooth turf , and the 'eerie' feeling was on me in a moment . 
The Queen's Baby , a course ! said Bruno . 
Sylvie , she's oh so sorry ! How sorry is she ? I asked , mischievously . 
Three quarters of a yard , Bruno replied with perfect solemnity . 
And I'm a little sorry too , he added , shutting his eyes so as not to see that he was smiling . 
And what are you doing about the Baby ? Well , the soldiers are all looking for it up and down everywhere . 
The soldiers ? I exclaimed . 
Yes , a course ! said Bruno . 
When there's no fighting to be done , the soldiers doos any little odd jobs , oo know . 
I was amused at the idea of its being a 'little odd job' to find the Royal Baby . 
But how did you come to lose it ? I asked . 
We put it in a flower , Sylvie , who had just joined us , explained with her eyes full of tears . 
Only we ca'n't remember which ! She says us put it in a flower , Bruno interrupted , 'cause she doosn't want I to get punished . 
But it were really me what put it there . 
The queen's baby You shouldn't say 'us put it in a flower' , Sylvie very gravely remarked . 
Well , hus , then , said Bruno . 
I never can remember those horrid H's ! Let me help you to look for it , I said . 
So Sylvie and I made a 'voyage of discovery' among all the flowers but there was no Baby to be seen . 
What's become of Bruno ? I said , when we had completed our tour . 
He's down in the ditch there , said Sylvie , amusing a young Frog . 
I went down on my hands and knees to look for him , for I felt very curious to know how young Frogs ought to be amused . 
After a minute's search , I found him sitting at the edge of the ditch , by the side of the little Frog , and looking rather disconsolate . 
How are you getting on , Bruno ? I said , nodding to him as he looked up . 
It's deaf , I think ! Bruno said , turning away with a sigh . 
And it's time to get the Theatre ready . 
Who are the audience to be ? Only but Frogs , said Bruno . 
But they haven't comed yet . 
They wants to be drove up , like sheep . 
But where are Sylvie ? I'm here ! said Sylvie , peeping over the edge of the bank . 
I was just watching two Frogs that were having a race . 
Which won it ? Bruno eagerly inquired . 
He does ask such hard questions ! she confided to me . 
And what's to happen in the Theatre ? I asked . 
First they have their Birthday Feast , Sylvie said then Bruno does some Bits of Shakespeare then he tells them a Story . 
I should think the Frogs like the Feast best . 
Don't they ? Well , there's generally very few of them that get any . 
They will keep their mouths shut so tight ! And it's just as well they do , she added , because Bruno likes to cook it himself and he cooks very queerly . 
What are they saying ? I asked Sylvie . 
They're saying 'Fork ! Fork ! It's very silly of them ! You're not going to have forks ! she announced with some severity . 
However Bruno instantly put a large spoonful of soup into its mouth , and the poor little thing coughed violently for some time . 
So Sylvie and I had to share the soup between us , and to pretend to enjoy it , for it certainly was very queerly cooked . 
, and must candidly confess that it was not at all nice and I could not feel surprised that so many of the guests had kept their mouths shut up tight . 
What's the soup made of , Bruno ? said Sylvie , who had put a spoonful of it to her lips , and was making a wry face over it . 
And Bruno's answer was anything but encouraging . 
Will the Story have a Moral to it ? I asked Sylvie , while Bruno was away behind the hedge , dressing for the first 'Bit . 
I think so , Sylvie replied doubtfully . 
There generally is a Moral , only he puts it in too soon . 
And will he say all the Bits of Shakespeare ? No , he'll only act them , said Sylvie . 
He knows hardly any of the words . 
When I see what he's dressed like , I've to tell the Frogs what character it is . 
But why do they try to guess it before they see it ? I don't know , Sylvie said but they always do . 
And it was no good at all , Bruno said , to do a 'Bit' of Shakespeare when there was nobody to look at it . 
Hamlet ! was suddenly proclaimed , in the clear sweet tones I knew so well . 
The croaking all ceased in a moment , and I turned to the stage , in some curiosity to see what Bruno's ideas were as to the behaviour of Shakespeare's greatest Character . 
, and turned out his toes very much as he walked . 
To be or not to be ! Hamlet remarked in a cheerful tone , and then turned head over heels several times , his cloak dropping off in the performance . 
I felt a little disappointed Bruno's conception of the part seemed so wanting in dignity . 
Won't he say any more of the speech ? I whispered to Sylvie . 
I think not , Sylvie whispered in reply . 
He generally turns head over heels when he doesn't know any more words . 
Bruno had meanwhile settled the question by disappearing from the stage and the Frogs instantly began inquiring the name of the next Character . 
You'll know directly ! cried Sylvie , as she adjusted two or three young Frogs that had struggled round with their backs to the stage . 
Macbeth ! she added , as Bruno re appeared . 
Macbeth had something twisted round him , that went over one shoulder and under the other arm , and was meant , I believe , for a Scotch plaid . 
He had a thorn in his hand , which he held out at arm's length , as if he were a little afraid of it . 
It's a dagger ! Sylvie proclaimed in a peremptory tone . 
Hold your tongues ! And the croaking ceased at once . 
, which made a magnificent beard , that reached nearly down to his feet . 
No , I beg your pardon ! she hastily corrected herself , King Lear ! I hadn't noticed the crown . 
and said , in a mild explanatory tone , Ay , every inch a king ! and then paused , as if to consider how this could best be proved . 
But Bruno wouldn't appear again , till the proper time came for telling the Story . 
The frogs' birthday treat When he appeared at last in his real character , I noticed a remarkable change in his behaviour . 
He tried no more somersaults . 
Once there were a Mouse and a Crocodile and a Man and a Goat and a Lion . 
I had never heard the 'dramatis personae' tumbled into a story with such profusion and in such reckless haste and it fairly took my breath away . 
And the Mouse found a Shoe , and it thought it were a Mouse trap . 
So it got right in , and it stayed in ever so long . 
Why did it stay in ? said Sylvie . 
'Cause it thought it couldn't get out again , Bruno explained . 
It were a clever mouse . 
It knew it couldn't get out of traps ! But why did it go in at all ? said Sylvie . 
and it jamp , and it jamp , Bruno proceeded , ignoring this question , and at last it got right out again . 
And it looked at the mark in the Shoe . 
And the Man's name were in it . 
So it knew it wasn't its own Shoe . 
Had it thought it was ? said Sylvie . 
Why , didn't I tell oo it thought it were a Mouse trap ? the indignant orator replied . 
So the Mouse gave the Man his Shoe . 
And the Man were welly glad , cause he hadn't got but one Shoe , and he were hopping to get the other . 
Here I ventured on a question . 
Do you mean 'hopping , or 'hoping' ? Bofe , said Bruno . 
And the Man took the Goat out of the Sack . 
And he said to the Goat , 'Oo will walk about here till I comes back . 
And he went and he tumbled into a deep hole . 
And the Goat walked round and round . 
And it walked under the Tree . 
And it wug its tail . 
And it looked up in the Tree . 
And it sang a sad little Song . 
Oo never heard such a sad little Song ! Can you sing it , Bruno ? I asked . 
Iss , I can , Bruno readily replied . 
It would make Sylvie cry It wouldn't ! , Sylvie interrupted in great indignation . 
And I don't believe the Goat sang it at all ! It did , though ! said Bruno . 
It singed it right froo . 
I sawed it singing with its long beard It couldn't sing with its beard , I said , hoping to puzzle the little fellow a beard isn't a voice . 
Well then , oo couldn't walk with Sylvie ! Bruno cried triumphantly . 
Sylvie isn't a foot ! I thought I had better follow Sylvie's example , and be silent for a while . 
Bruno was too sharp for us . 
And when it had singed all the Song , it ran away for to get along to look for the Man , oo know . 
And the Crocodile got along after it for to bite it , oo know . 
And the Mouse got along after the Crocodile . 
Wasn't the Crocodile running ? Sylvie enquired . 
Crocodiles do run , don't they ? I suggested crawling as the proper word . 
He wasn't running , said Bruno , and he wasn't crawling . 
He went struggling along like a portmanteau . 
And he held his chin ever so high in the air What did he do that for ? said Sylvie . 
'cause he hadn't got a toofache ! said Bruno . 
Course he had blankets ! retorted her brother . 
Doos oo think Crocodiles goes walks wizout blankets ? And he frowned with his eyebrows . 
And the Goat was welly flightened at his eyebrows ! I'd never be afraid of eyebrows ? exclaimed Sylvie . 
Sylvie gave another little gasp this rapid dodging about among the characters of the Story had taken away her breath . 
And he runned away for to look for the Goat , oo know . 
And he heard the Lion grunting Lions don't grunt , said Sylvie . 
This one did , said Bruno . 
And its mouth were like a large cupboard . 
And it had plenty of room in its mouth . 
And the Lion runned after the Man for to eat him , oo know . 
And the Mouse runned after the Lion . 
But the Mouse was running after the Crocodile , I said he couldn't run after both ! Bruno sighed over the density of his audience , but explained very patiently . 
He did runned after bofe 'cause they went the same way ! And first he caught the Crocodile , and then he didn't catch the Lion . 
And when he'd caught the Crocodile , what doos oo think he did 'cause he'd got pincers in his pocket ? I ca'n't guess , said Sylvie . 
'He wrenched out that crocodile's toof ! Nobody couldn't guess it ! Bruno cried in high glee . 
Why , he wrenched out that Crocodile's toof ! Which tooth ? I ventured to ask . 
But Bruno was not to be puzzled . 
The toof he were going to bite the Goat with , a course ! He couldn't be sure about that , I argued , unless he wrenched out all its teeth . 
It had to wait , said Bruno . 
I ventured on another question . 
But what became of the Man who said 'You may wait here till I come back' ? He didn't say 'Oo may , Bruno explained . 
He said , 'Oo will . 
Just like Sylvie says to me 'Oo will do oor lessons till twelve o'clock . 
She returned to the Story . 
But what became of the Man ? Well , the Lion springed at him . 
But it came so slow , it were three weeks in the air Did the Man wait for it all that time ? I said . 
Course he didn't ! Bruno replied , gliding head first down the stem of the fox glove , for the Story was evidently close to its end . 
He sold his house , and he packed up his things , while the Lion were coming . 
And he went and he lived in another town . 
So the Lion ate the wrong man . 
This was evidently the Moral so Sylvie made her final proclamation to the Frogs . 
It's just a week , I said , three days later , to Arthur , since we heard of Lady Muriel's engagement . 
I think I ought to call , at any rate , and offer my congratulations . 
Won't you come with me ? A pained expression passed over his face . 
When must you leave us ? he asked . 
By the first train on Monday . 
Well yes , I will come with you . 
It would seem strange and unfriendly if I didn't . 
But this is only Friday . 
Give me till Sunday afternoon . 
I shall be stronger then . 
Shading his eyes with one hand , as if half ashamed of the tears that were coursing down his cheeks , he held the other out to me . 
It trembled as I clasped it . 
I tried to frame some words of sympathy but they seemed poor and cold , and I left them unspoken . 
Good night ! was all I said . 
Good night , dear friend ! he replied . 
But this isn't the Sabbath Day . 
The Sabbath day has ceased to exist . 
But I hold that Christians are freed from the literal observance of the Fourth Commandment . 
Then where is our authority for Sunday observance ? We have , first , the fact that the seventh day was 'sanctified' , when God rested from the work of Creation . 
That is binding on us as Theists . 
Secondly , we have the fact that 'the Lord's Day' is a Christian institution . 
That is binding on us as Christians . 
Secondly , as Christians , to attend public worship . 
Then you would allow children to play on Sunday ? Certainly I should . 
I will fetch it for you . 
I had a similar description , viva voce , years ago , Arthur said when she had left us , from a little girl . 
Let me read you a piece of it . 
When , as a child , I first opened my eyes on a Sunday morning , a feeling of dismal anticipation , which began at least on the Friday , culminated . 
, of tracts about converted swearers , godly charwomen , and edifying deaths of sinners saved . 
The Church Service was a veritable Wilderness of Zin . 
, Sunday School again from to , and Evening Service at . 
I'm afraid I was a deserter this morning , she gravely said . 
I had to write to Eric . 
Would you would you mind my telling you something he said about prayer ? It had never struck me in that light before . 
In what light ? said Arthur . 
Why , that all Nature goes by fixed , regular laws Science has proved that . 
is to expect a miracle and we've no right to do that . 
I've not put it as well as he did but that was the outcome of it , and it has confused me . 
Please tell me what you can say in answer to it . 
I don't propose to discuss Captain Lindon's difficulties , Arthur gravely replied specially as he is not present . 
It is my difficulty , she said anxiously . 
Then you are not a Fatalist ? Oh , no ! she earnestly exclaimed . 
Thank God ! Arthur said to himself , but in so low a whisper that only I heard it . 
Well , let us see how far the result is produced by fixed laws . 
The cup moves because certain mechanical forces are impressed on it by my hand . 
My hand moves because certain forces electric , magnetic , or whatever 'nerve force' may prove to be are impressed on it by my brain . 
But would not that be Fatalism ? Where would Free Will come in ? In choice of nerves , replied Arthur . 
The nerve force in the brain may flow just as naturally down one nerve as down another . 
We need something more than a fixed Law of Nature to settle which nerve shall carry it . 
That 'something' is Free Will . 
I see what you mean ! she exclaimed . 
Human Free Will is an exception to the system of fixed Law . 
Eric said something like that . 
And then I think he pointed out that God can only influence Nature by influencing Human Wills . 
So that we might reasonably pray 'give us this day our daily bread , because many of the causes that produce bread are under Man's control . 
But to pray for rain , or fine weather , would be as unreasonable as she checked herself , as if fearful of saying something irreverent . 
Thou madest , but thou canst not rule ! ? Lady Muriel had covered her face in her hands , and did not look up . 
She only murmured Thanks , thanks ! again and again . 
Arthur said , with evident effort , One word more . 
If you would know the power of Prayer in anything and everything that Man can need try it . 
Ask , and it shall be given you . 
We sat on , talking , while hour after hour , of this our last night together , glided away unnoticed . 
He had much to tell me about India , and the new life he was going to , and the work he hoped to do . 
And his great generous soul seemed so filled with noble ambition as to have no space left for any vain regret or selfish repining . 
Come , it is nearly morning ! Arthur said at last , rising and leading the way upstairs . 
So may it be for him , and me , and all of us ! I mused . 
One little picture in this book , the Magic Locket , at p . 
, was drawn by 'Miss Alice Havers . 
wonderful pictures , that his name should stand there alone . 
The descriptions , at pp . 
It was in , I believe , that the idea first occurred to me of making it the nucleus of a longer story . 
quite suddenly , during a solitary walk and such , again , have been passages which occurred in dreams , and which I cannot trace to any antecedent cause whatever . 
the other , Eric Lindon's badinage about having been in domestic service , at p . 
My readers may perhaps like to amuse themselves by trying to detect , in a given passage , the one piece of 'padding' it contains . 
While arranging the 'slips' into pages , I found that the passage , whichnow extends from the top of p . 
to the middle of p . 
, was lines too short . 
I supplied the deficiency , not by interpolating a word here and a word there , but by writing in consecutive lines . 
the text was adapted to the stanza . 
And perhaps the easiest is , when once an original line has been struck out , to follow it up , and to write any amount more to the same tune . 
to finish the task I have set myself , other hands may take it up . 
First , a Child's Bible . 
The only real essentials of this would be , carefully selected passages , suitable for a child's reading and pictures . 
Thirdly , a collection of passages , both prose and verse , from books other than the Bible . 
, that will bear the process of being pondered over , a hundred times still there are such passages enough , I think , to make a goodly store for the memory . 
Let me say this , in better words than my own , by copying a passage from that most interesting book , Robertson's Lectures on the Epistles to the Corinthians , Lecture XLIX . 
Let these be to him the sword , turning everywhere to keep the way of the Garden of Life from the intrusion of profaner footsteps . 
from to , should be omitted . 
Neither Bowdler's , Chambers's , Brandram's , nor Cundell's 'Boudoir' Shakespeare , seems to me to meet the want they are not sufficiently 'expurgated . 
The resulting book might be slightly fragmentary but it would be a real treasure to all British maidens who have any taste for poetry . 
To him such a mixture will seem , no doubt , ill judged and repulsive . 
The ever present sense of this grim possibility has been , in all ages , Note . 
an incubus that men have striven to shake off . 
Few more interesting subjects of enquiry could be found , by a student of history , than the various weapons that have been used against this shadowy foe . 
It is the word 'exilium' in the well known passage Omnes eodem cogimur , omnium Versatur urna serius ocius Sors exitura et nos in aeternum Exilium impositura cymbae . 
I don't say that conscience is quite easy but the piece is so clever , I must see it this once ! I'll begin a stricter life to morrow . 
Be sure the safest rule is that we should not dare to live in any scene in which we dare not die . 
He prayeth best , who loveth best All things both great and small For the dear God who loveth us , He made and loveth all . 
