The Song of the Cardinal by Gene Stratton Porter IN LOVING TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF MY FATHER MARK STRATTON For him every work of God manifested a new and heretofore unappreciated loveliness . 
The song of the Cardinal was overflowing with joy , for this was his holiday , his playtime . 
No wonder his song was a prophecy of good cheer for the future , for happiness made up the whole of his past . 
The Cardinal was only a yearling , yet his crest flared high , his beard was crisp and black , and he was a very prodigy in size and colouring . 
Fathers of his family that had accomplished many migrations appeared small beside him , and coats that had been shed season after season seemed dull compared with his . 
It was as if a pulsing heart of flame passed by when he came winging through the orchard . 
Last season the Cardinal had pipped his shell , away to the north , in that paradise of the birds , the Limberlost . 
There thousands of acres of black marsh muck stretch under summers' sun and winters' snows . 
There are darksome pools of murky water , bits of swale , and high morass . 
Giants of the forest reach skyward , or , coated with velvet slime , lie decaying in sun flecked pools , while the underbrush is almost impenetrable . 
The swamp resembles a big dining table for the birds . 
The birds loll in the shade , peel bark , gather dried curlers for nest material , and feast on the pungent fruit . 
They chatter in swarms over the wild cherry trees , and overload their crops with red haws , wild plums , papaws , blackberries and mandrake . 
The alders around the edge draw flocks in search of berries , and the marsh grasses and weeds are weighted with seed hunters . 
The muck is alive with worms and the whole swamp ablaze with flowers , whose colours and perfumes attract myriads of insects and butterflies . 
Wild creepers flaunt their red and gold from the treetops , and the bumblebees and humming birds make common cause in rifling the honey laden trumpets . 
The air around the wild plum and redhaw trees is vibrant with the beating wings of millions of wild bees , and the bee birds feast to gluttony . 
The fetid odours of the swamp draw insects in swarms , and fly catchers tumble and twist in air in pursuit of them . 
Every hollow tree homes its colony of bats . 
Snakes sun on the bushes . 
The water folk leave trails of shining ripples in their wake as they cross the lagoons . 
Turtles waddle clumsily from the logs . 
Frogs take graceful leaps from pool to pool . 
Everything native to that section of the country underground , creeping , or a wing can be found in the Limberlost but above all the birds . 
Dainty green warblers nest in its tree tops , and red eyed vireos choose a location below . 
It is the home of bell birds , finches , and thrushes . 
There are flocks of blackbirds , grackles , and crows . 
Jays and catbirds quarrel constantly , and marsh wrens keep up never ending chatter . 
Orioles swing their pendent purses from the branches , and with the tanagers picnic on mulberries and insects . 
In the evening , night hawks dart on silent wing whippoorwills set up a plaintive cry that they continue far into the night and owls revel in moonlight and rich hunting . 
Flashing through the tree tops of the Limberlost there are birds whose colour is more brilliant than that of the gaudiest flower lifting its face to light and air . 
The lilies of the mire are not so white as the white herons that fish among them . 
The ripest spray of goldenrod is not so highly coloured as the burnished gold on the breast of the oriole that rocks on it . 
The jays are bluer than the calamus bed they wrangle above with throaty chatter . 
The finches are a finer purple than the ironwort . 
For every clump of foxfire flaming in the Limberlost , there is a cardinal glowing redder on a bush above it . 
These may not be more numerous than other birds , but their brilliant colouring and the fearless disposition make them seem so . 
The Cardinal was hatched in a thicket of sweetbrier and blackberry . 
His father was a tough old widower of many experiences and variable temper . 
He was the biggest , most aggressive redbird in the Limberlost , and easily reigned king of his kind . 
Catbirds , king birds , and shrikes gave him a wide berth , and not even the ever quarrelsome jays plucked up enough courage to antagonize him . 
She chose her location with the eye of an artist , and the judgment of a nest builder of more experience . 
It would be difficult for snakes and squirrels to penetrate that briery thicket . 
She built with far more than ordinary care . 
It was a beautiful nest , not nearly so carelessly made as those of her kindred all through the swamp . 
There was a distinct attempt at a cup shape , and it really was neatly lined with dried blades of sweet marsh grass . 
But it was in the laying of her first egg that the queen cardinal forever distinguished herself . 
The king felt sure there was something wrong with the egg , and wanted to roll it from the nest but the queen knew her own , and stoutly battled for its protection . 
She further increased their prospects by laying three others . 
The big egg was her treasure . 
She gave it constant care . 
Many times in a day she turned it and always against her breast there was the individual pressure that distinguished it from the others . 
The king came to see him and at once acknowledged subjugation . 
He was the father of many promising cardinals , yet he never had seen one like this . 
He set the Limberlost echoes rolling with his jubilant rejoicing . 
He unceasingly hunted for the ripest berries and seed . 
He stuffed that baby from morning until night , and never came with food that he did not find him standing a top the others calling for more . 
The queen was just as proud of him and quite as foolish in her idolatry , but she kept tally and gave the remainder every other worm in turn . 
He was the first to climb to the edge of the nest and the first to hop on a limb . 
He returned safely , however and the king was so pleased he hunted him an unusually ripe berry , and perching before him , gave him his first language lesson . 
He was so proud of him that this same night he gave him his first lesson in tucking his head properly and going to sleep alone . 
In a few more days , when he was sure of his wing strength , he gave him instructions in flying . 
His first bathing lesson was a pronounced success . 
The Cardinal enjoyed water like a duck . 
He showed him how to find tiny pebbles to grind his food , and how to sharpen and polish his beak . 
Then he took up the real music lessons , and taught him how to whistle and how to warble and trill . 
Good Cheer ! Good Cheer ! intoned the king . 
Coo Cher ! Coo Cher ! imitated the Cardinal . 
He was an excellent musician for a youngster . 
In fact , the reign of the king promised to end speedily but if he feared it he made no sign , and his pride in his wonderful offspring was always manifest . 
That day was so delightful it decided his fortunes . 
It would seem that the swamp , so appreciated by his kindred , should have been sufficient for the Cardinal , but it was not . 
With every mile he winged his flight , came a greater sense of power and strength , and a keener love for the broad sweep of field and forest . 
His heart bounded with the zest of rocking on the wind , racing through the sunshine , and sailing over the endless panorama of waving corn fields , and woodlands . 
The heat and closeness of the Limberlost seemed a prison well escaped , as on and on he flew in straight untiring flight . 
Crossing a field of half ripened corn that sloped to the river , the Cardinal saw many birds feeding there , so he alighted on a tall tree to watch them . 
Soon he decided that he would like to try this new food . 
Perhaps there were other treats in the next field . 
He decided to fly even farther . 
Filled with wonder he dropped lower and lower . 
Birds were everywhere , many flying over and dipping into it but its clear creeping silver was a mystery to the Cardinal . 
He uttered an impudent Chip of challenge , which , as it left his beak , was flung back to him . 
The Cardinal flared his crest and half lifted his wings , stiffening them at the butt the bird he was facing did the same . 
In his surprise he arose to his full height with a dexterous little side step , and the other bird straightened and side stepped exactly with him . 
This was too insulting for the Cardinal . 
Straining every muscle , he made a dash at the impudent stranger . 
He struck the water with such force that it splashed above the willows , and a kingfisher , stationed on a stump opposite him , watching the shoals for minnows , saw it . 
He spread his beak and rolled forth rattling laughter , until his voice reechoed from point to point down the river . 
The Cardinal scarcely knew how he got out , but he had learned a new lesson . 
That beautiful , shining , creeping thing was water not thick , tepid , black marsh water , but pure , cool , silver water . 
He shook his plumage , feeling a degree redder from shame , but he would not be laughed into leaving . 
He found it too delightful . 
In a short time he ventured down and took a sip , and it was the first real drink of his life . 
He was so wet when his bath was finished he scarcely could reach a bush to dry and dress his plumage . 
Once again in perfect feather , he remembered the bird of the water , and returned to the willow . 
There in the depths of the shining river the Cardinal discovered himself , and his heart swelled big with just pride . 
He spread his wings and gloated on their sweep , and twisted and flirted his tail . 
He went over his toilet again and dressed every feather on him . 
He scoured the back of his neck with the butt of his wings , and tucking his head under them , slowly drew it out time after time to polish his crest . 
He rocked and paraded , and every glimpse he caught of his size and beauty filled him with pride . 
He strutted like a peacock and chattered like a jay . 
When he could find no further points to admire , something else caught his attention . 
Selecting a conspicuous perch he sent an incisive Chip ! across the water , and in kind it came back to him . 
Wheat ! Wheat ! Wheat ! He whistled it high , and he whistled it low . 
Cheer ! Cheer ! Cheer ! He whistled it tenderly and sharply and imperiously . 
Here ! Here ! Here ! At this ringing command , every bird , as far as the river carried his voice , came to investigate and remained to admire . 
Over and over he rang every change he could invent . 
In the night he restlessly ruffled his feathers , and sniffed for the breeze of the meadows . 
He tasted the corn and the clear water again . 
He admired his image in the river , and longed for the sound of his voice , until he began murmuring , Wheat ! Wheat ! Wheat ! in his sleep . 
It was better than before , and every following day found him feasting in the corn field and bathing in the shining water but he always returned to his family at nightfall . 
In the early morning , even before the robins were awake , the king settled in the Everglades . 
But the Cardinal had lost all liking for swamp life , so he stubbornly set out alone , and in a short time he had found another river . 
It was not quite so delightful as the shining river but still it was beautiful , and on its gently sloping bank was an orange orchard . 
There the Cardinal rested , and found a winter home after his heart's desire . 
The following morning , a golden haired little girl and an old man with snowy locks came hand in hand through the orchard . 
So in security began a series of days that were pure delight . 
The orchard was alive with insects , attracted by the heavy odours , and slugs infested the bark . 
Feasting was almost as good as in the Limberlost , and always there was the river to drink from and to splash in at will . 
In those days the child and the old man lingered for hours in the orchard , watching the bird that every day seemed to grow bigger and brighter . 
They scattered crumbs and the Cardinal grew so friendly that he greeted their coming with a quick Chip ! Chip ! while the delighted child tried to repeat it after him . 
Soon they became such friends that when he saw them approaching he would call softly Chip ! Chip ! and then with beady eyes and tilted head await her reply . 
The Cardinal lifted his head and whistled an inquiring note . 
The Cardinal darted to the topmost branch , his crest flaring , his tail twitching nervously . 
Its damp touch was from the spring showers washing the face of the northland . 
Its subtle odour was the commingling of myriads of unfolding leaves and crisp plants , upspringing its pungent perfume was the pollen of catkins . 
Up in the land of the Limberlost , old Mother Nature , with strident muttering , had set about her annual house cleaning . 
With her efficient broom , the March wind , she was sweeping every nook and cranny clean . 
The shining river was filled to overflowing breaking up the ice and carrying a load of refuse , it went rolling to the sea . 
The ice and snow had not altogether gone but the long pregnant earth was mothering her children . 
She cringed at every step , for the ground was teeming with life . 
Bug and worm were working to light and warmth . 
Thrusting aside the mold and leaves above them , spring beauties , hepaticas , and violets lifted tender golden green heads . 
The sap was flowing , and leafless trees were covered with swelling buds . 
Delicate mosses were creeping over every stick of decaying timber . 
The lichens on stone and fence were freshly painted in unending shades of gray and green . 
Myriads of flowers and vines were springing up to cover last year's decaying leaves . 
The beautiful uncut hair of graves was creeping over meadow , spreading beside roadways , and blanketing every naked spot . 
The Limberlost was waking to life even ahead of the fields and the river . 
Flat on the top rail , the doves were gathering their few coarse sticks and twigs together . 
It was such a splendid place to set their cradle . 
The weatherbeaten , rotting old rails were the very colour of the busy dove mother . 
Her red rimmed eye fitted into the background like a tiny scarlet lichen cup . 
There was intoxication in the air . 
The subtle , pungent , ravishing odours on the wind , of unfolding leaves , ice water washed plants , and catkin pollen , were an elixir to humanity . 
All that day he flashed around , nervous with dread of the unknown , and palpitant with delightful expectation but with the coming of dusk he began his journey northward . 
When he passed the Everglades , he winged his way slowly , and repeatedly sent down a challenging Chip , but there was no answer . 
Then the Cardinal knew that the north wind had carried a true message , for the king and his followers were ahead of him on their way to the Limberlost . 
But there was no hesitation in his flight . 
Straight and sure he winged his way toward the shining river and it was only a few more miles until the rolling waters of its springtime flood caught his eye . 
Dropping precipitately , he plunged his burning beak into the loved water then he flew into a fine old stag sumac and tucked his head under his wing for a short rest . 
He had made the long flight in one unbroken sweep , and he was sleepy . 
He perched on a limb , and between dressing his plumage and pecking at last year's sour dried berries , he sent abroad his prediction . 
Old Mother Nature verified his wisdom by sending a dashing shower , but he cared not at all for a wetting . 
He knew he would appear brighter when it was past , and he seemed to know , too , that every day of sunshine and shower would bring nearer his heart's desire . 
He was a very Beau Brummel while he waited . 
From morning until night he bathed , dressed his feathers , sunned himself , fluffed and flirted . 
He strutted and chipped incessantly . 
He claimed that sumac for his very own , and stoutly battled for possession with many intruders . 
It grew on a densely wooded slope , and the shining river went singing between grassy banks , whitened with spring beauties , below it . 
He was compelled almost hourly to wage battles for his location , for there was something fine about the old stag sumac that attracted homestead seekers . 
A sober pair of robins began laying their foundations there the morning the Cardinal arrived , and a couple of blackbirds tried to take possession before the day had passed . 
He had little trouble with the robins . 
The Cardinal was left boasting and strutting in the sumac , but in his heart he found it lonesome business . 
As for the doves that were already brooding on the line fence beneath the maples , the Cardinal was torn between two opinions . 
The dove had no dignity he was so effusive he was a nuisance . 
He kept his dignified Quaker mate stuffed to discomfort he clung to the side of the nest trying to help brood until he almost crowded her from the eggs . 
He pestered her with caresses and cooed over his love song until every chipmunk on the line fence was familiar with his story . 
The Cardinal's temper was worn to such a fine edge that he darted at the dove one day and pulled a big tuft of feathers from his back . 
The heart of the Cardinal sank as he watched . 
There was not a member of his immediate family among them . 
He pitied himself as he wondered if fate had in store for him the trials he saw others suffering . 
The Cardinal flew to the very top of the highest sycamore and looked across country toward the Limberlost . 
Should he go there seeking a swamp mate among his kindred ? It was not an endurable thought . 
To be sure , matters were becoming serious . 
No bird beside the shining river had plumed , paraded , or made more music than he . 
Was it all to be wasted ? By this time he confidently had expected results . 
Only that morning he had swelled with pride as he heard Mrs. Jay tell her quarrelsome husband that she wished she could exchange him for the Cardinal . 
The performance of a brown thrush drove him wild with envy . 
There was no way to improve that music . 
It was woven fresh from the warp and woof of his fancy . 
With care and deliberation the brown thrush selected the most attractive , and she followed him to the thicket as if charmed . 
It was the Cardinal's dream materialized for another before his very eyes , and it filled him with envy . 
After finding a spot where the water flowed crystal clear over a bed of white limestone , he washed until he felt that he could be no cleaner . 
Then the Cardinal went to his favourite sun parlour , and stretching on a limb , he stood his feathers on end , and sunned , fluffed and prinked until he was immaculate . 
On the tip top antler of the old stag sumac , he perched and strained until his jetty whiskers appeared stubby . 
He poured out a tumultuous cry vibrant with every passion raging in him . 
He caught up his own rolling echoes and changed and varied them . 
They's some birds like killdeers an' bobwhites 'at can make things pretty plain , but I never heard a bird 'at could jest speak words out clear an' distinct like that fellow . 
Seems to come from the river bottom . 
B'lieve I'll jest step down that way an' see if the lower field is ready for the plow yet . 
I'm willin' to call it the bird if you are , Maria . 
I've been hearin' him from the barn all day , an' there's somethin' kind o' human in his notes 'at takes me jest a little diffrunt from any other bird I ever noticed . 
I'm really curious to set eyes on him . 
Seemed to me from his singin' out to the barn , it 'ud be mighty near like meetin' folks . 
I don't s'pose he sings a mite better 'an any other bird . 
It's jest the old Wabash rollin' up the echoes . 
A bird singin' beside the river always sounds twicet as fine as one on the hills . 
I've knowed that for forty year . 
Chances are 'at he'll be gone 'fore you get there . 
As Abram opened the door , Wet year ! Wet year ! pealed the flaming prophet . 
He went out , closing the door softly , and with an utter disregard for the corn field , made a bee line for the musician . 
Wet year ! Wet year ! rolled the Cardinal's prediction . 
Looks as if you might be stayin' round these parts ! I'd like it powerful well if you'd settle right here , say 'bout where you are . 
An' where are you , anyway ? Abram went peering and dodging beside the fence , peeping into the bushes , searching for the bird . 
Suddenly there was a whir of wings and a streak of crimson . 
Scared you into the next county , I s'pose , he muttered . 
Lord A'mighty ! he gasped . 
Big as a blackbird , red as a live coal , an' a comin' right at me . 
You are somebody's pet , that's what you are ! An' no , you ain't either . 
Settin' on a sawed stick in a little wire house takes all the ginger out of any bird , an' their feathers are always mussy . 
Inside o' a cage never saw you , for they ain't a feather out o' place on you . 
You are finer'n a piece o' red satin . 
An' you got that way o' swingin' an' dancin' an' high steppin' right out in God A'mighty's big woods , a teeterin' in the wind , an' a dartin' 'crost the water . 
Cage never touched you ! But you are somebody's pet jest the same . 
It's jest as sure as fate , he said . 
You think you know me , an' you are tryin' to tell me somethin' . 
Abram lifted his old hat , and the raindrops glistened on his white hair . 
He squared his shoulders and stood very erect . 
Howdy , Mr. Redbird ! How d'ye find yerself this evenin' ? I don't jest riccolict ever seein' you before , but I'll never meet you agin 'thout knowin' you . 
When d'you arrive ? Come through by the special midnight flyer , did you ? Well , you never was more welcome any place in your life . 
I'd give a right smart sum this minnit if you'd say you came to settle on this river bank . 
How do you like it ? To my mind it's jest as near Paradise as you'll strike on earth . 
Old Wabash is a twister for curvin' and windin' round , an' it's limestone bed half the way , an' the water's as pretty an' clear as in Maria's springhouse . 
An' as for trimmin' , why say , Mr. Redbird , I'll jest leave it to you if she ain't all trimmed up like a woman's spring bunnit . 
Most anything you can name , you can find it 'long this ole Wabash , if you only know where to hunt for it . 
They's mighty few white men takes the trouble to look , but the Indians used to know . 
They'd come canoein' an' fishin' down the river an' camp under these very trees , an' Ma 'ud git so mad at the old squaws . 
Settlers wasn't so thick then , an' you had to be mighty careful not to rile 'em , an' they'd come a trapesin' with their wild berries . 
Took Pa five days to make the trip an' then the blame old squaws 'ud come , an' Ma 'ud be compelled to hand over to 'em her big white loaves . 
Jest about set her plumb crazy . 
The Cardinal chipped delightedly and hopped and tilted closer . 
I hadn't jest 'lowed all winter I'd tackle this field again . 
I've turned it every spring for forty year . 
Bought it when I was a young fellow , jest married to Maria . 
Shouldered a big debt on it but I always loved these slopin' fields , an' my share of this old Wabash hasn't been for sale nor tradin' any time this past forty year . 
I've hung on to it like grim death , for it's jest that much o' Paradise I'm plumb sure of . 
First time I plowed this field , Mr. Redbird , I only hit the high places . 
Jest married Maria , an' I didn't touch earth any too frequent all that summer . 
Hate the doggondest to own I'm worsted , an' if you say it's stay , b'lieve I'll try it . 
Very sight o' you kinder warms the cockles o' my heart all up , an' every skip you take sets me a wantin' to be jumpin' , too . 
Feed you ? You bet I will ! You needn't even 'rastle for grubs if you don't want to . 
Like as not you're feelin' hungry right now , pickin' bein' so slim these airly days . 
Land's sake ! I hope you don't feel you've come too soon . 
I'll fetch you everything on the place it's likely a redbird ever teched , airly in the mornin' if you'll say you'll stay an' wave your torch 'long my river bank this summer . 
I haven't a scrap about me now . 
Yes , I have , too ! Here's a handful o' corn I was takin' to the banty rooster but shucks ! he's fat as a young shoat now . 
Corn's a leetle big an' hard for you . 
Mebby I can split it up a mite . 
Pshaw now ! said Abram , staring wide eyed . 
You'll get the little red heart shot plumb outen your little red body , an' that's what you'll get . 
It's a dratted shame ! An' there's law to protect you , too . 
They's a good big fine for killin' such as you , but nobody seems to push it . 
Every fool wants to test his aim , an' you're the brightest thing on the river bank for a mark . 
Well , if you'll stay right where you are , it 'ull be a sorry day for any cuss 'at teches you 'at I'll promise you , Mr. Redbird . 
This land's mine , an' if you locate on it , you're mine till time to go back to that other old fellow 'at looks like me . 
Wonder if he's any willinger to feed you an' stand up for you 'an I am ? Here ! Here ! Here ! whistled the Cardinal . 
Well , I'm mighty glad if you're sayin' you'll stay ! Guess it will be all right if you don't meet some o' them Limberlost hens an' tole off to the swamp . 
Lord ! the Limberlost ain't to be compared with the river , Mr. Redbird . 
But then you WARNED me , didn't you , old fellow ? Well , I told Maria seein' you 'ud be like meetin' folks , an' it has been . 
Good deal more'n I counted on , an' I've talked more'n I have in a whole year . 
Hardly think now 'at I've the reputation o' being a mighty quiet fellow , would you ? Abram straightened and touched his hat brim in a trim half military salute . 
Well , good bye , Mr. Redbird . 
Never had more pleasure meetin' anybody in my life 'cept first time I met Maria . 
You think about the plowin' , an' , if you say stay , it's a go ! Good bye an' do be a little more careful o' yourself . 
See you in the mornin' , right after breakfast , no count taken o' the weather . 
Wet year ! Wet year ! called the Cardinal after his retreating figure . 
Abram turned and gravely saluted the second time . 
The Cardinal went to the top rail and feasted on the sweet grains of corn until his craw was full , and then nestled in the sumac and went to sleep . 
He located them , but it was only several staid old couples , a long time mated , and busy with their nest building . 
The Cardinal returned to the sumac , feeling a degree lonelier than ever . 
He decided to prospect in the opposite direction , and taking wing , he started up the river . 
Following the channel , he winged his flight for miles over the cool sparkling water , between the tangle of foliage bordering the banks . 
He rounded curve after curve , and frequently stopping on a conspicuous perch , flung a ringing challenge in the face of the morning . 
With every mile the way he followed grew more beautiful . 
The river bed was limestone , and the swiftly flowing water , clear and limpid . 
The banks were precipitate in some places , gently sloping in others , and always crowded with a tangle of foliage . 
Startled , the Cardinal took wing . 
The Cardinal flew over the narrow neck and sent another call , then without awaiting a reply , again he flashed up the river and circled Horseshoe Bend . 
When he came to the same ash for the third time , he understood . 
The river circled in one great curve . 
The Cardinal mounted to the tip top limb of the ash and looked around him . 
There was never a fairer sight for the eye of man or bird . 
The mist and shimmer of early spring were in the air . 
For good measure , there were added seeds , berries , and insects for the birds and wild flowers , fruit , and nuts for the children . 
Above all , the sycamore waved its majestic head . 
Black envy filled their hearts . 
Who was this flaming dashing stranger , flaunting himself in the faces of their females ? There were many unmated cardinals in Rainbow Bottom , and many jealous males . 
A second time the Cardinal , rocking and flashing , proclaimed himself and there was a note of feminine approval so strong that he caught it . 
In turn the Cardinal struck him like a flashing rocket , and then red war waged in Rainbow Bottom . 
The females scattered for cover with all their might . 
The Cardinal worked in a kiss on one poor little bird , too frightened to escape him then the males closed in , and serious business began . 
The Cardinal would have enjoyed a fight vastly with two or three opponents but a half dozen made discretion better than valour . 
He darted among them , scattering them right and left , and made for the sycamore . 
With all his remaining breath , he insolently repeated his challenge and then headed down stream for the sumac with what grace he could command . 
There was an hour of angry recrimination before sweet peace brooded again in Rainbow Bottom . 
The newly mated pair finally made up the females speedily resumed their coquetting , and forgot the captivating stranger all save the poor little one that had been kissed by accident . 
She never had been kissed before , and never had expected that she would be , for she was a creature of many misfortunes of every nature . 
She had been hatched from a fifth egg to begin with and every one knows the disadvantage of beginning life with four sturdy older birds on top of one . 
It was a meager egg , and a feeble baby that pipped its shell . 
Hunger driven , she climbed to the edge and exercised her wings until she managed some sort of flight to a neighbouring bush . 
She missed the twig and fell to the ground , where she lay cold and shivering . 
She cried pitifully , and was almost dead when a brown faced , barefoot boy , with a fishing pole on his shoulder , passed and heard her . 
Poor little thing , you are almost dead , he said . 
I know what I'll do with you . 
I'll take you over and set you in the bushes where I heard those other redbirds , and then your ma will feed you . 
The boy turned back and carefully set her on a limb close to one of her brothers , and there she got just enough food to keep her alive . 
Once a squirrel chased her , and she saved herself by crowding into a hole so small her pursuer could not follow . 
She was left so badly frightened that she could not move for a long time . 
All the tribulations of birdland fell to her lot . 
She was so frail and weak she lost her family in migration , and followed with some strangers that were none too kind . 
Life in the South had been full of trouble . 
Once a bullet grazed her so closely she lost two of her wing quills , and that made her more timid than ever . 
Coming North , she had given out again and finally had wandered into Rainbow Bottom , lost and alone . 
She was such a shy , fearsome little body , the females all flouted her and the males never seemed to notice that there was material in her for a very fine mate . 
He had intended it for the bold creature that had answered his challenge , but since it came to her , it was hers , in a way , after all . 
She hid in the underbrush for the remainder of the day , and was never so frightened in all her life . 
She brooded over it constantly , and morning found her at the down curve of the horseshoe , straining her ears for the rarest note she ever had heard . 
All day she hid and waited , and the following days were filled with longing , but he never came again . 
So one morning , possessed with courage she did not understand , and filled with longing that drove her against her will , she started down the river . 
For miles she sneaked through the underbrush , and watched and listened until at last night came , and she returned to Rainbow Bottom . 
The next morning she set out early and flew to the spot from which she had turned back the night before . 
From there she glided through the bushes and underbrush , trembling and quaking , yet pushing stoutly onward , straining her ears for some note of the brilliant stranger's . 
She sprang into air , and fled a mile before she realized that she was flying . 
Then she stopped and listened , and rolling with the river , she heard those bold true tones . 
Close to earth , she went back again , to see if , unobserved , she could find a spot where she might watch the stranger that had kissed her . 
High in the sumac the Cardinal had sung until his throat was parched , and the fountain of hope was almost dry . 
There was nothing save defeat from overwhelming numbers in Rainbow Bottom . 
He had paraded , and made all the music he ever had been taught , and improvised much more . 
Yet no one had come to seek him . 
Was it of necessity to be the Limberlost then ? This one day more he would retain his dignity and his location . 
He tipped , tilted , and flirted . 
He whistled , and sang , and trilled . 
He could hear the sniffling of carp wallowing beside the bank . 
A big pickerel slashed around , breakfasting on minnows . 
The sharp bark of the red squirrel and the low of cattle , lazily chewing their cuds among the willows , came to him . 
The hammering of a woodpecker on a dead sycamore , a little above him , rolled to his straining ears like a drum beat . 
The Cardinal hated the woodpecker more than he disliked the dove . 
It was only foolishly effusive , but the woodpecker was a veritable Bluebeard . 
There was not the least excuse for this tyrannical action and the sight filled the Cardinal with rage . 
He fully expected to see Madam Woodpecker divorce herself and flee her new home , and he most earnestly hoped that she would but she did no such thing . 
She meekly flattened her feathers , hurried work in a lively manner , and tried in every way to anticipate and avert her mate's displeasure . 
Under this treatment he grew more abusive , and now Madam Woodpecker dodged every time she came within his reach . 
It made the Cardinal feel so vengeful that he longed to go up and drum the sycamore with the woodpecker's head until he taught him how to treat his mate properly . 
There was plently of lark music rolling with the river , and that morning brought the first liquid golden notes of the orioles . 
They had arrived at dawn , and were overjoyed with their homecoming , for they were darting from bank to bank singing exquisitely on wing . 
There seemed no end to the bird voices that floated with the river , and yet there was no beginning to the one voice for which the Cardinal waited with passionate longing . 
It was for this the Cardinal had waited , hoped , and planned for many days . 
He had rehearsed what he conceived to be every point of the situation , and yet he was not prepared for the thing that suddenly happened to him . 
Half screened by the flowers , she seemed so little , so shy , so delightfully sweet . 
He chipped carefully once or twice to steady himself and clear his throat , for unaccountably it had grown dry and husky and then he tenderly tried again . 
Come here ! Come here ! implored the Cardinal . 
He forgot all about his dignity . 
He knew that his voice was trembling with eagerness and hoarse with fear . 
He was afraid to attempt approaching her , but he leaned toward her , begging and pleading . 
He teased and insisted , and he did not care a particle if he did . 
It suddenly seemed an honour to coax her . 
He rocked on the limb . 
He side stepped and hopped and gyrated gracefully . 
He fluffed and flirted and showed himself to every advantage . 
The Cardinal rested a second before he tried again . 
That steadied him and gave him better command of himself . 
He could tell that his notes were clearing and growing sweeter . 
There was some encouragement in the fact that she was still there . 
The Cardinal felt that his time had come . 
Come here ! Come here ! He was on his mettle now . 
Then he glided into a song of love , and tenderly , pleadingly , passionately , told the story as only a courting bird can tell it . 
Then he sang a song of ravishment a song quavering with fear and the pain tugging at his heart . 
He almost had run the gamut , and she really appeared as if she intended to flee rather than to come to him . 
He was afraid to take even one timid little hop toward her . 
In a fit of desperation the Cardinal burst into the passion song . 
He had planned so to subdue the little female he courted that she would come to him he was in hot pursuit a half day's journey away before he remembered it . 
No other cardinal ever endured such a chase as she led him in the following days . 
Through fear and timidity she had kept most of her life in the underbrush . 
The Cardinal was a bird of the open fields and tree tops . 
He loved to rock with the wind , and speed arrow like in great plunges of flight . 
This darting and twisting over logs , among leaves , and through tangled thickets , tired , tried , and exasperated him more than hundreds of miles of open flight . 
There was no time to eat , bathe , or sing only mile after mile of unceasing pursuit . 
It seemed that the little creature could not stop if she would , and as for the Cardinal , he was in that chase to remain until his last heart beat . 
It was a question how the frightened bird kept in advance . 
She was visibly the worse for this ardent courtship . 
Two tail feathers were gone , and there was a broken one beating from her wing . 
Once she had flown too low , striking her head against a rail until a drop of blood came , and she cried pitifully . 
Poor little feathered creature ! She had been fleeing some kind of danger all her life . 
She could not realize that love and protection had come in this splendid guise , and she fled on and on . 
Like a flaming brand of vengeance he struck that Limberlost upstart , and sent him rolling to earth , a mass of battered feathers . 
She was so securely hidden , that although he went searching , calling , pleading , he found no trace of her the remainder of that day . 
The Cardinal almost went distracted and his tender imploring cries would have moved any except a panic stricken bird . 
He did not even know in what direction to pursue her . 
Night closed down , and found him in a fever of love sick fear , but it brought rest and wisdom . 
She could not have gone very far . 
He would not proclaim his presence . 
Soon she would suffer past enduring for food and water . 
He hid in the willows close where he had lost her , and waited with what patience he could and it was a wise plan . 
Shortly after dawn , moving stilly as the break of day , trembling with fear , she came slipping to the river for a drink . 
It was almost brutal cruelty , but her fear must be overcome someway and with a cry of triumph the Cardinal , in a plunge of flight , was beside her . 
She gave him one stricken look , and dashed away . 
The chase began once more and continued until she was visibly breaking . 
There was no room for a rival that morning . 
The Cardinal flew abreast of her and gave her a caress or attempted a kiss whenever he found the slightest chance . 
She was almost worn out , her flights were wavering and growing shorter . 
The Cardinal did his utmost . 
The next time she took wing , she found him so persistently in her course that she turned sharply and fled panting to the sumac . 
He dashed into mid air , and with a gyration that would have done credit to a flycatcher , he snapped up a gadfly that should have been more alert . 
With a tender Chip ! from branch to branch , slowly , cautiously , he came with it . 
Because he was half starved himself , he knew that she must be almost famished . 
Holding it where she could see , he hopped toward her , eagerly , carefully , the gadfly in his beak , his heart in his mouth . 
He stretched his neck and legs to the limit as he reached the fly toward her . 
What matter that she took it with a snap , and plunged a quarter of a mile before eating it ? She had taken food from him ! That was the beginning . 
Cautiously he impelled her toward the sumac , and with untiring patience kept her there the remainder of the day . 
Huddled on the limb , the Cardinal gloated over her . 
He found her beauty perfect . 
To be sure , she was dishevelled but she could make her toilet . 
There were a few feathers gone but they would grow speedily . 
She made a heart satisfying picture , on which the Cardinal feasted his love sick soul , by the light of every straying moonbeam that slid around the edges of the grape leaves . 
Wave after wave of tender passion shook him . 
Then the Cardinal went to the river and bathed . 
He made such delightful play of it , and the splash of the water sounded so refreshing to the tired draggled bird , that she could not resist venturing for a few dips . 
When she was wet she could not fly well , and he improved the opportunity to pull her broken quills , help her dress herself , and bestow a few extra caresses . 
He guided her to his favourite place for a sun bath and followed the farmer's plow in the corn field until he found a big sweet beetle . 
He snapped off its head , peeled the stiff wing shields , and daintily offered it to her . 
He sang the old pleading song as he never had sung it before , for now there was a tinge of hope battling with the fear in his heart . 
Just when his heart was growing sick within him , his straining ear caught the faintest , most timid call a lover ever answered . 
Only one imploring , gentle Chook ! from the sumac ! His song broke in a suffocating burst of exultation . 
Cautiously he hopped from twig to twig toward her . 
With tender throaty murmurings he slowly edged nearer , and wonder of wonders ! with tired eyes and quivering wings , she reached him her beak for a kiss . 
Footin's pretty good along the line fence , said Abram , an' you never saw a redbird like this fellow . 
He's as big as any two common ones . 
He's so red every bush he lights on looks like it was afire . 
It's past all question , he's been somebody's pet , an' he's taken me for the man . 
I can get in six feet of him easy . 
He's the finest bird I ever set eyes on an' as for singin' , he's dropped the weather , an' he's askin' folks to his housewarmin' to day . 
He's been there alone for a week , an' his singin's been first class but to day he's picked up a mate , an' he's as tickled as ever I was . 
I am really consarned for fear he'll burst himself . 
Course , don't come if you're tired , honey , said the farmer . 
I thought maybe you'd enjoy it . 
He's a doin' me a power o' good . 
Abram Johnson , have you gone daft ? she demanded . 
Not a mite dafter'n you'll be , honey , once you set eyes on the fellow . 
Better come , if you can . 
He's askin' the whole endurin' country to come . 
Maria said nothing more but she mentally decided she had no time to fool with a bird , when there were housekeeping and spring sewing to do . 
By two o'clock , a spirit of unrest that demanded recognition had taken possession of her . 
Setting her lips firmly , a scowl clouding her brow , she stitched on . 
Pshaw ! she muttered , I got this shirt to finish this afternoon . 
There's butter an' bakin' in the mornin' , an' Mary Jane Simms is comin' for a visit in the afternoon . 
Every intoxicating delight of early spring was in the air . 
The breeze that fanned her cheek was laden with subtle perfume of pollen and the crisp fresh odour of unfolding leaves . 
Like the low murmur of distant music came the beating wings of hundreds of her bees , rimming the water trough , insane with thirst . 
On the barnyard gate the old Shanghai was lustily challenging to mortal combat one of his kind three miles across country . 
From the river arose the strident scream of her blue gander jealously guarding his harem . 
As I'm a livin' woman ! she gasped . 
He's changed his song ! That's what Abram meant by me bein' invited . 
He's askin' folks to see his mate . 
The dull red of excitement sprang into her cheeks . 
She hurried on her overshoes , and drew an old shawl over her head . 
She crossed the dooryard , followed the path through the orchard , and came to the lane . 
Below the barn she turned back and attempted to cross . 
The mud was deep and thick , and she lost an overshoe but with the help of a stick she pried it out , and replaced it . 
Joke on me if I'd a tumbled over in this mud , she muttered . 
She entered the barn , and came out a minute later , carefully closing and buttoning the door , and started down the line fence toward the river . 
Half way across the field Abram saw her coming . 
No need to recount how often he had looked in that direction during the afternoon . 
Maria , staring at his flushed face and shining eyes , recognized that his whole being proclaimed an inward exultation . 
You hit it , Maria I got the power . 
It's the power o' God , but I learned how to lay hold of it from that little red bird . 
Come here , Maria ! Abram wrapped the lines around the plow handle , and cautiously led his wife to the fence . 
He found a piece of thick bark for her to stand on , and placed her where she would be screened by a big oak . 
Then he stood behind her and pointed out the sumac and the female bird . 
Jest you keep still a minute , an' you'll feel paid for comin' all right , honey , he whispered , but don't make any sudden movement . 
I don't know as I ever saw a worse lookin' specimen 'an she is , answered Maria . 
She looks first class to him . 
There's no kick comin' on his part , I can tell you , replied Abram . 
The bride hopped shyly through the sumac . 
She was a beautiful bird , and she was doing all in her power to make herself dainty again . 
Her movements clearly indicated how timid she was , and yet she remained in the sumac as if she feared to leave it and frequently peered expectantly among the tree tops . 
There was a burst of exultation down the river . 
The little bird gave her plumage a fluff , and watched anxiously . 
On came the Cardinal like a flaming rocket , calling to her on wing . 
Mrs. Cardinal enjoyed the meal . 
It struck her palate exactly right . 
She took a dainty hop toward the dogwood , and the invitation she sent him was exquisite . 
With a shrill whistle of exultant triumph the Cardinal answered at a headlong rush . 
The farmer's grip tightened on his wife's shoulder , but Maria turned toward him with blazing , tear filled eyes . 
An' you call yourself a decent man , Abram Johnson ? Decent ? quavered the astonished Abram . 
Decent ? I believe I am . 
I believe you ain't , hotly retorted his wife . 
You don't know what decency is , if you go peekin' at them . 
They ain't birds ! They're folks ! Maria , pled Abram , Maria , honey . 
I am plumb ashamed of you , broke in Maria . 
Maria broke from his grasp and started down the line fence . 
In a few strides Abram had her in his arms , his withered cheek with its springtime bloom pressed against her equally withered , tear stained one . 
Maria , he whispered , waveringly , Maria , honey , I wasn't meanin' any disrespect to the sex . 
Maria wiped her eyes on the corner of her shawl . 
I don't s'pose you was , Abram , she admitted but you're jest like all the rest o' the men . 
You never think ! Now you go on with your plowin' an' let that little female alone . 
She unclasped his arms and turned homeward . 
Honey , called Abram softly , since you brought 'em that pocketful o' wheat , you might as well let me have it . 
I'll scatter it along the top rail , an' they'll be after it in fifteen minutes . 
'T was good o' you to think of it . 
Abram said nothing , because he could not . 
He slowly shook his head , and turned to the plow , his eyes misty . 
The location was her selection and he loudly applauded her choice . 
She placed the first twig , and after examining it carefully , he spent the day carrying her others just as much alike as possible . 
If she used a dried grass blade , he carried grass blades until she began dropping them on the ground . 
If she worked in a bit of wild grape vine bark , he peeled grape vines until she would have no more . 
It never occurred to him that he was the largest cardinal in the woods , in those days , and he had forgotten that he wore a red coat . 
She was not a skilled architect . 
Her nest certainly was a loose ramshackle affair but she had built it , and had allowed him to help her . 
It was hers and he improvised a paean in its praise . 
Then she nestled them against her warm breast , and turned adoring eyes toward the Cardinal . 
If he sang from the dogwood , she faced that way . 
If he rocked on the wild grape vine , she turned in her nest . 
If he went to the corn field for grubs , she stood astride her eggs and peered down , watching his every movement with unconcealed anxiety . 
The Cardinal forgot to be vain of his beauty she delighted in it every hour of the day . 
Shy and timid beyond belief she had been during her courtship but she made reparation by being an incomparably generous and devoted mate . 
And the Cardinal ! He was astonished to find himself capable of so much and such varied feeling . 
It was not enough that he brooded while she went to bathe and exercise . 
The daintiest of every morsel he found was carried to her . 
Up and down the river bank he flamed and rioted . 
In the sumac he uttered not the faintest Chip ! that might attract attention . 
He was so anxious to be inconspicuous that he appeared only half his real size . 
Always on leaving he gave her a tender little peck and ran his beak the length of her wing a characteristic caress that he delighted to bestow on her . 
If he felt that he was disturbing her too often , he perched on the dogwood and sang for life , and love , and happiness . 
His music was in a minor key now . 
The high , exultant , ringing notes of passion were mellowed and subdued . 
He was improvising cradle songs and lullabies . 
One night he said to his wife Maria , have you been noticin' the redbird of late ? He's changed to a new tune , an' this time I'm completely stalled . 
I can't for the life of me make out what he's saying . 
S'pose you step down to morrow an' see if you can catch it for me . 
I'd give a pretty to know ! Maria felt flattered . 
She always had believed that she had a musical ear . 
Here was an opportunity to test it and please Abram at the same time . 
She hastened her work the following morning , and very early slipped along the line fence . 
Hiding behind the oak , with straining ear and throbbing heart , she eagerly listened . 
Clip , clip , came the sound of the planter , as Abram's dear old figure trudged up the hill . 
Chip ! Chip ! came the warning of the Cardinal , as he flew to his mate . 
He gave her some food , stroked her wing , and flying to the dogwood , sang of the love that encompassed him . 
As he trilled forth his tender caressing strain , the heart of the listening woman translated as did that of the brooding bird . 
With shining eyes and flushed cheeks , she sped down the fence . 
Panting and palpitating with excitement , she met Abram half way on his return trip . 
The bewilderment in Abram's face melted into comprehension . 
He swept Maria from her feet as he lifted his head . 
He gathered Maria in his arms , pressed her head against his breast with a trembling old hand , while the face he turned to the morning was beautiful . 
He carried food to the top rail of the line fence every day , rain or shine , with the same regularity that he curried and fed Nancy in the barn . 
From caring for and so loving the Cardinal , there grew in his tender old heart a welling flood of sympathy for every bird that homed on his farm . 
He drove a stake to mark the spot where the killdeer hen brooded in the corn field , so that he would not drive Nancy over the nest . 
Alders and sweetbriers grew in his fence corners undisturbed that spring if he discovered that they sheltered an anxious eyed little mother . 
He left a hollow limb on the old red pearmain apple tree , because when he came to cut it there was a pair of bluebirds twittering around , frantic with anxiety . 
His pockets were bulgy with wheat and crumbs , and his heart was big with happiness . 
It was the golden springtime of his later life . 
The sky never had seemed so blue , or the earth so beautiful . 
The Cardinal had opened the fountains of his soul life took on a new colour and joy while every work of God manifested a fresh and heretofore unappreciated loveliness . 
His very muscles seemed to relax , and new strength arose to meet the demands of his uplifted spirit . 
He had not finished his day's work with such ease and pleasure in years and he could see the influence of his rejuvenation in Maria . 
He immediately went to town and bought her a finer collar than she ever had owned in her life . 
Time was when trees an' underbrush were full o' birds an' squirrels , any amount o' rabbits , an' the fish fairly crowdin' in the river . 
But jest look at it now . 
Surprise o' my life if I get a two pound bass . 
Up go these signs , an' it won't be a happy day for anybody I catch trespassin' on my birds . 
Maria studied the signs meditatively . 
You shouldn't be forced to put 'em up , she said conclusively . 
If it's been decided 'at it's good for 'em to be here , an' laws made to protect 'em , people ought to act with some sense , an' leave them alone . 
I never was so int'rested in the birds in all my life an' I'll jest do a little lookin' out myself . 
If you hear a spang o' the dinner bell when you're out in the field , you'll know it means there's some one sneakin' 'round with a gun . 
Abram caught Maria , and planted a resounding smack on her cheek , where the roses of girlhood yet bloomed for him . 
Then he filled his pockets with crumbs and grain , and strolled to the river to set the Cardinal's table . 
He could hear the sharp incisive Chip ! and the tender mellow love notes as he left the barn and all the way to the sumac they rang in his ears . 
The Cardinal met him at the corner of the field , and hopped over bushes and the fence only a few yards from him . 
When Abram had scattered his store on the rail , the bird came tipping and tilting , daintily caught up a crumb , and carried it to the sumac . 
His mate was pleased to take it and he carried her one morsel after another until she refused to open her beak for more . 
He made a light supper himself and then swinging on the grape vine , he closed the day with an hour of music . 
He repeatedly turned a bright questioning eye toward Abram , but he never for a moment lost sight of the nest and the plump gray figure of his little mate . 
He had overstayed his time , chasing a fat moth he particularly wanted for his mate , and she , growing thirsty past endurance , left the nest and went to the river . 
Seeing her there , he made all possible haste to take his turn at brooding , so he arrived just in time to see a pilfering red squirrel starting away with an egg . 
With a vicious scream the Cardinal struck him full force . 
His rush of rage cost the squirrel an eye but it lost the father a birdling , for the squirrel dropped the egg outside the nest . 
The Cardinal mournfully carried away the tell tale bits of shell , so that any one seeing them would not look up and discover his treasures . 
He was beside himself with a new and delightful excitement , and he found it impossible to refrain from giving vent to his feelings . 
In past days the Cardinal had brooded an hour every morning while his mate went to take her exercise , bathe , and fluff in the sun parlour . 
He had gone to her that morning as usual , and she looked at him with anxious eyes and refused to move . 
He had hopped to the very edge of the nest and repeatedly urged her to go . 
She only ruffled her feathers , and nestled the eggs she was brooding to turn them , but did not offer to leave . 
He carried her every dainty he could find and hovered near her , tense with anxiety . 
It was late in the afternoon before she went after the drink for which she was half famished . 
She scarcely had reached a willow and bent over the water before the Cardinal was on the edge of the nest . 
He examined it closely , but he could see no change . 
He leaned to give the eggs careful scrutiny , and from somewhere there came to him the faintest little Chip ! he ever had heard . 
Up went the Cardinal's crest , and he dashed to the willow . 
There was no danger in sight and his mate was greedily dipping her rosy beak in the water . 
He went back to the cradle and listened intently , and again that feeble cry came to him . 
Under the nest , around it , and all through the sumac he searched , until at last , completely baffled , he came back to the edge . 
His heart was beating to suffocation . 
He started in a race down the river . 
If he alighted on a bush he took only one swing , and springing from it flamed on in headlong flight . 
Father tender , he grew so delirious with joy that he forgot his habitual aloofness , and fraternized with every bird beside the shining river . 
That night the Cardinal slept in the sumac , very close to his mate , and he shut only one eye at a time . 
On the following day there were four . 
Her eyes were bigger and softer than ever , and in them glowed a steady lovelight . 
She hovered over those three red mites of nestlings so tenderly ! She was so absorbed in feeding , stroking , and coddling them she neglected herself until she became quite lean . 
When the Cardinal came every few minutes with food , she was a picture of love and gratitude for his devoted attention , and once she reached over and softly kissed his wing . 
See here ! See here ! shrilled the Cardinal and in his ecstasy he again forgot himself and sang in the sumac . 
Then he carried food with greater activity than ever to cover his lapse . 
The farmer knew that it lacked an hour of noon , but he was so anxious to tell Maria the news that he could not endure the suspense another minute . 
There was a new song from the sumac . 
He had heard it as he turned the first corner with the shovel plow . 
It seemed to Abram that he never could wait until noon . 
So , when he had waited until an hour of noon , he could endure it no longer . 
Got news for you , Maria , he called from the well , where he was making a pretense of thirst . 
Oh I don't know , answered Maria , with a superior smile . 
Is that your news ? Well I be durned ! gasped the astonished Abram . 
Mid afternoon Abram turned Nancy and started the plow down a row that led straight to the sumac . 
He intended to stop there , tie to the fence , and go to the river bank , in the shade , for a visit with the Cardinal . 
The quick nervous strokes of the dinner bell , Clang ! Clang ! came cutting the air clearly and sharply . 
Abram stopped Nancy with a jerk . 
It was the warning Maria had promised to send him if she saw prowlers with guns . 
He shaded his eyes with his hand and scanned the points of the compass through narrowed lids with concentrated vision . 
Abram hastily hitched Nancy to the fence . 
By making the best time he could , he reached the opposite corner , and was nibbling the midrib of a young corn blade and placidly viewing the landscape when the hunter passed . 
Howdy ! he said in an even cordial voice . 
The hunter walked on without lifting his eyes or making audible reply . 
To Abram's friendly oldfashioned heart this seemed the rankest discourtesy and there was a flash in his eye and a certain quality in his voice he lifted a hand for parley . 
Hold a minute , my friend , he said . 
From the number and size of them , I think I could do it , old man , if I had no eyes . 
The scarcely suppressed sneer , and the old man grated on Abram's nerves amazingly , for a man of sixty years of peace . 
They're in a little fuller force in June , when half the bushes an' tufts o' grass are housin' a young bird family , 'an at any other time . 
To be sure not ! Glad to have you convenience yourself . 
I only wanted to jest call to your notice 'at the BIRDS are protected on this farm . 
I have no intention of interfering with your precious birds , I assure you , replied the hunter . 
And if you require an explanation of the gun in June , I confess I did hope to be able to pick off a squirrel for a very sick friend . 
But I suppose for even such cause it would not be allowed on your premises . 
Oh pshaw now ! said Abram . 
Man alive ! I'm not onreasonable . 
O' course in case o' sickness I'd be glad if you could run across a squirrel . 
All I wanted was to have a clear understandin' about the birds . 
He saw him leave the line of the fence and disappear in the thicket . 
Goin' straight for the sumac , muttered Abram . 
It's likely I'm a fool for not stayin' right beside him past that point . 
An' yet I made it fair an' plain , an' he passed his word 'at he wouldn't touch the birds . 
He untied Nancy , and for the second time started toward the sumac . 
At last he stopped Nancy , and stood gazing eagerly toward the river . 
Must be jest about the sumac , he whispered . 
Lord ! but I'll be glad to see the old gun barrel gleamin' safe t'other side o' it . 
There was a thin puff of smoke , and a screaming echo went rolling and reverberating down the Wabash . 
Abram's eyes widened , and a curious whiteness settled on his lips . 
He stood as if incapable of moving . 
Clang ! Clang ! came Maria's second warning . 
The trembling slid from him , and his muscles hardened . 
There was no trace of rheumatic stiffness in his movements . 
With a bound he struck the chain traces from the singletree at Nancy's heels . 
He caught the hames , leaped on her back , and digging his heels into her sides , he stretched along her neck like an Indian and raced across the corn field . 
Nancy's twenty years slipped from her as her master's sixty had from him . 
Once Abram straightened , and slipping a hand into his pocket , drew out a formidable jack knife , opening it as he rode . 
When he reached the fence , he almost flew over Nancy's head . 
He went into a fence corner , and with a few slashes severed a stout hickory withe , stripping the leaves and topping it as he leaped the fence . 
He grasped this ugly weapon , his eyes dark with anger as he appeared before the hunter , who supposed him at the other side of the field . 
Did you shoot at that redbird ? he roared . 
As his gun was at the sportman's shoulder , and he was still peering among the bushes , denial seemed useless . 
Yes , I did , he replied , and made a pretense of turning to the sumac again . 
There was a forward impulse of Abram's body . 
Hit 'im ? he demanded with awful calm . 
Thought I had , but I guess I only winged him . 
Abram's fingers closed around his club . 
See here ! See here ! shrilled the bird in deadly panic . 
There was not a cut feather on him . 
Abram's relief was so great he seemed to shrink an inch in height . 
He advanced a step in his eagerness , and the hunter , mistaking his motive , levelled his gun . 
Drop that ! shouted Abram , as he broke through the bushes that clung to him , tore the clothing from his shoulders , and held him back . 
Drop that ! Don't you dare point a weapon at me on my own premises , an' after you passed your word . 
Your word ! repeated Abram , with withering scorn , his white , quivering old face terrible to see . 
Young man , I got a couple o' things to say to you . 
You'r' shaped like a man , an' you'r' dressed like a man , an' yet the smartest person livin' would never take you for anything but an egg suckin' dog , this minute . 
All the time God ever spent on you was wasted , an' your mother's had the same luck . 
I s'pose God's used to having creatures 'at He's made go wrong , but I pity your mother . 
Nobody can put up a good buildin' without a solid foundation an' you can't do solid character buildin' with a lie at the base . 
Man 'at's a liar ain't fit for anything ! Can't trust him in no sphere or relation o' life or in any way , shape , or manner . 
You passed out your word like a man , an' like a man I took it an' went off trustin' you , an' you failed me . 
Like as not that squirrel story was a lie , too ! Have you got a sick friend who is needin' squirrel broth ? The hunter shook his head . 
No ? That wasn't true either ? I'll own you make me curious . 
'Ud you mind tellin' me what was your idy in cookin' up that squirrel story ? The hunter spoke with an effort . 
I suppose I wanted to do something to make you feel small , he admitted , in a husky voice . 
You wanted to make me feel small , repeated Abram , wonderingly . 
I guess we look about the way we feel in this world . 
I'm feelin' near the size o' Goliath at present but your size is such 'at it hustles me to see any MAN in you at all . 
Means 'at you better shoot a wolf than to let it carry off your lambs . 
Went South for winter , an' made friends 'at's been feedin' , an' teachin' it to TRUST mankind . 
Back this spring in a night , an' struck that sumac over a month ago . 
Broke me all up first time I ever set eyes on it . 
When he settled here , he was discoursin' on the weather , an' he talked it out about proper . 
Then he got love sick , an' begged for comp'ny until he broke me all up . 
An' if I'd a been a hen redbird I wouldn't a been so long comin' . 
Now they've got a nest full o' the cunningest little topknot babies , an' he's splittin' the echoes , calling for the whole neighbourhood to come see 'em , he's so mortal proud . 
They's no caution in him . 
Work's gone like it was greased , an' my soul's been singin' for joy o' life an' happiness ev'ry minute o' the time since he come . 
Been carryin' him grub to that top rail once an' twice a day for the last month , an' I can go in three feet o' him . 
My wife comes to see him , an' brings him stuff an' we about worship him . 
An' it's my belief 'at the way to make folks love us , is for us to be able to 'preciate what they can do . 
Whatever anybody succeeds in , it's success 'cos they so love it 'at they put the best o' theirselves into it an' so , lovin' what they do , is lovin' them . 
I'd as soon see you dig up the underbrush , an' dry up the river , an' spoil the picture they make against the sky , as to hev' you drop the redbird . 
To my mind , ain't no better way to love an' worship God , 'an to protect an' 'preciate these fine gifts He's given for our joy an' use . 
Worshipin' that bird's a kind o' religion with me . 
Getting the beauty from the sky , an' the trees , an' the grass , an' the water 'at God made , is nothin' but doin' Him homage . 
You can worship from sky above to grass under foot . 
Course , each man has his particular altar . 
Mine's in that cabin up at the bend o' the river . 
God never did cleaner work , 'an when He made Maria . 
Never saw nothin' else as beautiful , or as good . 
No flower's as fragrant an' smelly as her hair on her pillow . 
Never tapped a bee tree with honey sweet as her lips a twitchin' with a love quiver . 
Ain't a bird 'long the ol' Wabash with a voice up to hers . 
Love o' God ain't broader'n her kindness . 
When she's been home to see her folks , I've been so hungry for her 'at I've gone to her closet an' kissed the hem o' her skirts more'n once . 
I've never yet dared kiss her feet , but I've always wanted to . 
I've laid out 'at if she dies first , I'll do it then . 
An' Maria 'ud cry her eyes out if you'd a hit the redbird . 
Your trappin's look like you could shoot . 
I guess 'twas God made that shot fly the mark . 
I guess If you can stop , for the love of mercy do it ! cried the hunter . 
His face was a sickly white , his temples wet with sweat , and his body trembling . 
I can't endure any more . 
I don't suppose you think I've any human instincts at all but I have a few , and I see the way to arouse more . 
You probably won't believe me , but I'll never kill another innocent harmless thing and I will never lie again so long as I live . 
He leaned his gun against the thorn tree , and dropped the remainder of his hunter's outfit beside it on the ground . 
I don't seem a fit subject to have dominion , he said . 
I'll leave those thing for you and thank you for what you have done for me . 
There was a crash through the bushes , a leap over the fence , and Abram and the Cardinal were alone . 
The old man sat down suddenly on a fallen limb of the sycamore . 
He was almost dazed with astonishment . 
He held up his shaking hands , and watched them wonderingly , and then cupped one over each trembling knee to steady himself . 
He outlined his dry lips with the tip of his tongue , and breathed in heavy gusts . 
He glanced toward the thorn tree . 
Left his gun , he hoarsely whispered , an' it's fine as a fiddle . 
Lock , stock , an' barrel just a shinin' . 
An' all that heap o' leather fixin's . 
Must a cost a lot o' money . 
Said he wasn't fit to use 'em ! Lept the fence like a panther , an' cut dirt across the corn field . 
An' left me the gun ! Well ! Well ! Well ! Wonder what I said ? I must a been almost FIERCE . 
See here ! See here ! shrilled the Cardinal . 
Abram looked him over carefully . 
He was quivering with fear , but in no way injured . 
My ! but that was a close call , ol' fellow said , Abram . 
Minute later , an' our fun 'ud a been over , an' the summer jest spoiled . 
Wonder if you knew what it meant , an' if you'll be gun shy after this . 
Land knows , I hope so for a few more such doses 'ull jest lay me up . 
He gathered himself together at last , set the gun over the fence , and climbing after it , caught Nancy , who had feasted to plethora on young corn . 
He fastened up the trace chains , and climbing to her back , laid the gun across his lap and rode to the barn . 
He attended the mare with particular solicitude , and bathed his face and hands in the water trough to make himself a little more presentable to Maria . 
After all , it was all you , ol' girl , he said , patting her shoulder , I never on earth could a made it on time afoot . 
I'm afraid I was a little mite fierce . 
Poor fellow ! I do hope , Abram , you didn't come down on him too awful strong . 
Maybe he lost his mother when he was jest a little tyke , an' he hasn't had much teachin' . 
Abram was completely worn out , and went early to bed . 
As for the Cardinal , he had learned a new lesson . 
He had not been under fire before . 
Never again would he trust any one carrying a shining thing that belched fire and smoke . 
When the babies grew large enough for their mother to leave them a short time , she assisted in food hunting , and the Cardinal was not so busy . 
He then could find time frequently to mount to the top of the dogwood , and cry to the world , See here ! See here ! for the cardinal babies were splendid . 
But his music was broken intermittent vocalizing now , often uttered past a beakful of food , and interspersed with spasmodic chips if danger threatened his mate and nestlings . 
He rolled down the river bank , splash ! into the water and a hungry old pickerel , sunning in the weeds , finished him at a snap . 
He made a morsel so fat , sweet , and juicy that the pickerel lingered close for a week , waiting to see if there would be any more accidents . 
He called in helpless panic and fluttered over the spot . 
He watched and waited until there was no hope of the nestling coming up , then he went to the sumac to try to comfort his mate . 
She could not be convinced that her young one was gone , and for the remainder of the day filled the air with alarm cries and notes of wailing . 
The two that remained were surely the envy of Birdland . 
His sister was not nearly so bright as he , and she was almost as greedy as the lost brother . 
For once gluttony had its proper reward . 
She not only missed the bite , but she got her little self mightily well scared . 
But , of course , she could not be expected to admit that . 
He had mastered many lessons , but he never could be taught how to be quiet and conceal himself . 
With explosive chips flaming and flashing , he met dangers that sent all the other birds beside the shining river racing to cover . 
Concealment he scorned and repose he never knew . 
It was a summer full of rich experience for the Cardinal . 
After these first babies were raised and had flown , two more nests were built , and two other broods flew around the sumac . 
By fall the Cardinal was the father of a small flock , and they were each one neat , trim , beautiful river birds . 
He had lived through spring with its perfumed air , pale flowers , and burning heart hunger . 
Now it was fall , and all the promises of spring were accomplished . 
The woods were glorious in autumnal tints . 
There were ripened red haws , black haws , and wild grapes only waiting for severe frosts , nuts rattling down , scurrying squirrels , and the rabbits' flash of gray and brown . 
The waysides were bright with the glory of goldenrod , and royal with the purple of asters and ironwort . 
There was the rustle of falling leaves , the flitting of velvety butterflies , the whir of wings trained southward , and the call of the king crow gathering his followers . 
Then to the Cardinal came the intuition that it was time to lead his family to the orange orchard . 
One day they flamed and rioted up and down the shining river , raced over the corn field , and tilted on the sumac . 
The next , a black frost had stripped its antlered limbs . 
Stark and deserted it stood , a picture of loneliness . 
