This Etext was originally transcribed by Conway Yee . 
The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Scarlet Pimpernel THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL BY BARONESS ORCZY Contents I. PARIS SEPTEMBER , II . 
DOVER THE FISHERMAN'S REST III . 
THE LEAGUE OF THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL V. MARGUERITE VI . 
THE OUTRAGE X. IN THE OPERA BOX XI . 
THE SCRAP OF PAPER XIII . 
ONE O'CLOCK PRECISELY ! XV . 
THE EAGLE AND THE FOX XXVI . 
THE PERE BLANCHARD'S HUT XXIX . 
And so the crowd rushed away from the Place de la Greve and made for the various barricades in order to watch this interesting and amusing sight . 
And they did try to hide , and tried to fly that was just the fun of the whole thing . 
In various disguises , under various pretexts , they tried to slip through the barriers , which were so well guarded by citizen soldiers of the Republic . 
But they were nearly always caught at the barricades , Sergeant Bibot especially at the West Gate had a wonderful nose for scenting an aristo in the most perfect disguise . 
Then , of course , the fun began . 
No wonder that on this fine afternoon in September the crowd round Bibot's gate was eager and excited . 
Bibot was sitting on an overturned and empty cask close by the gate of the barricade a small detachment of citoyen soldiers was under his command . 
The work had been very hot lately . 
Robespierre and Danton both had commended Bibot for his zeal and Bibot was proud of the fact that he on his own initiative had sent at least fifty aristos to the guillotine . 
But to day all the sergeants in command at the various barricades had had special orders . 
Recently a very great number of aristos had succeeded in escaping out of France and in reaching England safely . 
There were curious rumours about these escapes they had become very frequent and singularly daring the people's minds were becoming strangely excited about it all . 
Sergeant Grospierre had been sent to the guillotine for allowing a whole family of aristos to slip out of the North Gate under his very nose . 
Strange stories were afloat of how he and those aristos whom he rescued became suddenly invisible as they reached the barricades and escaped out of the gates by sheer supernatural agency . 
No one had seen these mysterious Englishmen as for their leader , he was never spoken of , save with a superstitious shudder . 
The guards at the gates had been doubled , the sergeants in command had been threatened with death , whilst liberal rewards were offered for the capture of these daring and impudent Englishmen . 
There was a sum of five thousand francs promised to the man who laid hands on the mysterious and elusive Scarlet Pimpernel . 
Bah ! he said to his trusted corporal , Citoyen Grospierre was a fool ! Had it been me now , at that North Gate last week . 
Citoyen Bibot spat on the ground to express his contempt for his comrade's stupidity . 
How did it happen , citoyen ? asked the corporal . 
Grospierre was at the gate , keeping good watch , began Bibot , pompously , as the crowd closed in round him , listening eagerly to his narrative . 
We've all heard of this meddlesome Englishman , this accursed Scarlet Pimpernel . 
He won't get through MY gate , MORBLEU ! unless he be the devil himself . 
But Grospierre was a fool . 
The market carts were going through the gates there was one laden with casks , and driven by an old man , with a boy beside him . 
A murmur of wrath and contempt went round the group of ill clad wretches , who crowded round Citoyen Bibot . 
Half an hour later , continued the sergeant , up comes a captain of the guard with a squad of some dozen soldiers with him . 
Has a car gone through ? he asks of Grospierre , breathlessly . 
Yes , says Grospierre , not half an hour ago . 
And you have let them escape , shouts the captain furiously . 
You'll go to the guillotine for this , citoyen sergeant ! that cart held concealed the CI DEVANT Duc de Chalis and all his family ! What ! thunders Grospierre , aghast . 
Aye ! and the driver was none other than that cursed Englishman , the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
A howl of execration greeted this tale . 
But it was too late ! shouted the crowd , excitedly . 
Truly that Englishman must be the devil himself . 
The sun was sinking low down in the west . 
Bibot prepared himself to close the gates . 
EN AVANT The carts , he said . 
Some dozen covered carts were drawn up in a row , ready to leave town , in order to fetch the produce from the country close by , for market the next morning . 
They were mostly well known to Bibot , as they went through his gate twice every day on their way to and from the town . 
He spoke to one or two of their drivers mostly women and was at great pains to examine the inside of the carts . 
You never know , he would say , and I'm not going to be caught like that fool Grospierre . 
It was great fun to see the aristos arriving for the reception of Madame la Guillotine , and the places close by the platform were very much sought after . 
Bibot , during the day , had been on duty on the Place . 
I made friends with Madame Guillotine's lover , she said with a coarse laugh , he cut these off for me from the heads as they rolled down . 
He has promised me some more to morrow , but I don't know if I shall be at my usual place . 
Curse you ! he muttered , whilst the whole crowd hastily avoided the cart , leaving it standing all alone in the midst of the place . 
Curse you , citoyen , for being a coward , she said . 
Bah ! what a man to be afraid of sickness . 
Get out with you and with your plague stricken brood ! shouted Bibot , hoarsely . 
And with another rough laugh and coarse jest , the old hag whipped up her lean nag and drove her cart out of the gate . 
This incident had spoilt the afternoon . 
The people were terrified of these two horrible curses , the two maladies which nothing could cure , and which were the precursors of an awful and lonely death . 
Presently , as in the case of Grospierre , a captain of the guard appeared suddenly . 
But he was known to Bibot , and there was no fear of his turning out to be a sly Englishman in disguise . 
he shouted breathlessly , even before he had reached the gates . 
What cart ? asked Bibot , roughly . 
Driven by an old hag . 
An old hag who said her son had the plague ? Yes . 
You have not let them go ? MORBLEU ! said Bibot , whose purple cheeks had suddenly become white with fear . 
The cart contained the CI DEVANT Comtesse de Tourney and her two children , all of them traitors and condemned to death . 
And their driver ? muttered Bibot , as a superstitious shudder ran down his spine . 
SACRE TONNERRE , said the captain , but it is feared that it was that accursed Englishman himself the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
And old Jemima , stolid in temper and solid in bulk , kept up a long and subdued grumble , while she stirred the stock pot methodically over the fire . 
What ho ! Sally ! came in cheerful if none too melodious accents from the coffee room close by . 
E knows ow busy we are in ere . 
Your father is too busy discussing politics with Mr. Empseed to worry 'isself about you and the kitchen , grumbled Jemima under her breath . 
There , there was certainly no sign of that bustle and activity which kept four women busy and hot in the glowing kitchen beyond . 
The coffee room of The Fisherman's Rest is a show place now at the beginning of the twentieth century . 
In the leaded window , high up , a row of pots of scarlet geraniums and blue larkspur gave the bright note of colour against the dull background of the oak . 
That Mr. Jellyband , landlord of The Fisherman's Reef at Dover , was a prosperous man , was of course clear to the most casual observer . 
As Sally came in , laughing through her frowns , and displaying a row of dazzling white teeth , she was greeted with shouts and chorus of applause . 
Sally now seemed in less of a hurry to get back to her pots and pans . 
There he stood , mine worthy host , firm and well set up on his limbs , smoking his long churchwarden and caring nothing for nobody at home , and despising everybody abroad . 
The coffee room indeed , lighted by two well polished lamps , which hung from the raftered ceiling , looked cheerful and cosy in the extreme . 
but The Fisherman's Rest was something more than a rendezvous for these humble folk . 
Even now it was beating against the leaded windows , and tumbling down the chimney , making the cheerful wood fire sizzle in the hearth . 
Lud ! did you ever see such a wet September , Mr. Jellyband ? asked Mr. Hempseed . 
No , replied Mr. Jellyband , sententiously , I dunno , Mr. 'Empseed , as I ever did . 
An' I've been in these parts nigh on sixty years . 
Aye ! you wouldn't rec'llect the first three years of them sixty , Mr. Jellyband , quietly interposed Mr. Hempseed . 
The superiority of this wisdom was so incontestable that for the moment Mr. Jellyband was not ready with his usual flow of argument . 
It do seem more like April than September , don't it ? continued Mr. Hempseed , dolefully , as a shower of raindrops fell with a sizzle upon the fire . 
I don't xpect nothing , Mr. Jellyband , he said . 
Pore folks like us is of no account up there in Lunnon , I knows that , and it's not often as I do complain . 
Let 'em murder ! says Mr. Pitt . 
Stop em ! says Mr. Burke . 
And let em murder , says I , and be demmed to em . 
The work's gettin' on all ri' , father . 
But Mr. Jellyband was peremptory . 
Did ye hear me speak , me girl ? he said in that quiet tone , which no one inside the inn dared to disobey . 
Get on with my Lord Tony's supper , for , if it ain't the best we can do , and e not satisfied , see what you'll get , that's all . 
Aye ! that I be , replied Jellyband , friends of my Lord Tony hisself . 
But this was too much for Mr. Hempseed's querulous philosophy . 
Lud ! he said , what do they do that for , I wonder ? I don't 'old not with interferin' in other folks' ways . 
Pardon me , Mr. Jellyband , febbly protested Mr. Hempseed , I dunno as I ever did . 
But Mr. Jellyband had at last succeeded in getting upon his favourite hobby horse , and had no intention of dismounting in any hurry . 
Or maybe you've made friends with some of them French chaps 'oo they do say have come over here o' purpose to make us Englishmen agree with their murderin' ways . 
One of them now , with a quiet , sarcastic smile still lurking round the corners of his mobile mouth , turned towards the centre of the room where Mr. Jellyband was standing . 
How did they accomplish that now , think you ? Lud ! sir , I suppose they talked im over . 
Indeed , and is that so , Mr. Hempseed ? inquired the stranger politely . 
Nay , sir ! replied Mr. Hempseed , much irritated , I dunno as I can give you the information you require . 
Faith , then , said the stranger , let us hope , my worthy host , that these clever spies will not succeed in upsetting your extremely loyal opinions . 
But this was too much for Mr. Jellyband's pleasant equanimity . 
He burst into an uproarious fit of laughter , which was soon echoed by those who happened to be in his debt . 
Hahaha ! hohoho ! hehehe ! He laughed in every key , did my worthy host , and laughed until his sided ached , and his eyes streamed . 
Well , Mr. Jellyband , said Mr. Hempseed , sententiously , you know what the Scriptures say Let im oo stands take eed lest e fall . 
But then hark'ee Mr. Empseed , retorted Jellyband , still holding his sides with laughter , the Scriptures didn't know me . 
Why , I wouldn't so much as drink a glass of ale with one o' them murderin' Frenchmen , and nothin' d make me change my opinions . 
The stranger poured out a couple of tankards full of wine , and having offered one to mine host , he took the other himself . 
Aye ! we'll none of us deny that , sir , assented mine host . 
And here's to the best landlord in England , our worthy host , Mr. Jellyband , said the stranger in a loud tone of voice . 
Hi , hip , hurrah ! retorted the whole company present . 
To which obvious fact the stranger heartily assented . 
It was certainly a preposterous suggestion that anyone could ever upset Mr. Jellyband's firmly rooted opinions anent the utter worthlessness of the inhabitants of the whole continent of Europe . 
CHAPTER III THE REFUGEES Feeling in every part of England certainly ran very high at this time against the French and their doings . 
Yet , with all that , no one dared to interfere . 
By now Sally came running back , very excited and very eager . 
I think I see'd my Lord Antony's horse out in the yard , father , she said , as she ran across the coffee room . 
What say you , Mr. Waite ? Mr. Waite torn between his respect for my lord and his dislike of that particular type of joke only replied with a doubtful grunt . 
But only for a moment the next he turned to Mr. Hempseed , who was respectfully touching his forelock . 
It almost seemed , when the young man said these words , as if he threw a defiant look towards the quiet strangers in the corner . 
Thanks to you , my lord , and to your friends , so I've heard it said , said Mr. Jellyband . 
But in a moment Lord Antony's hand fell warningly on mine host's arm . 
Hush ! he said peremptorily , and instinctively once again looked towards the strangers . 
Oh ! Lud love you , they are all right , my lord , retorted Jellyband don't you be afraid . 
I wouldn't have spoken , only I knew we were among friends . 
That gentleman over there is as true and loyal a subject of King George as you are yourself , my lord saving your presence . 
He is but lately arrived in Dover , and is setting down in business in these parts . 
In business ? Faith , then , it must be as an undertaker , for I vow I never beheld a more rueful countenance . 
Sir Percy's skipper was here just now . 
You need have no fear of that , my lord , said Sally , who all this while had been busy setting the table for supper . 
And very gay and inviting it looked , with a large bunch of brilliantly coloured dahlias in the centre , and the bright pewter goblets and blue china about . 
As for me , I vow I could demolish a baron of beef to night . 
Here they are , I do believe , said Sally excitedly , as a distant clatter of horses and wheels could now be distinctly heard , drawing rapidly nearer . 
There was a general commotion in the coffee room . 
Everyone was curious to see my Lord Antony's swell friends from over the water . 
Only the two strangers in the corner did not participate in the general excitement . 
They were calmly finishing their game of dominoes , and did not even look once towards the door . 
Straight ahead , Comtesse , the door on your right , said a pleasant voice outside . 
Aye ! there they are , all right enough . 
said Lord Antony , joyfully off with you , my pretty Sally , and see how quick you can dish up the soup . 
Welcome ! Welcome to old England ! said Lord Antony , effusively , as he came eagerly forward with both hands outstretched towards the newcomers . 
Ah , you are Lord Antony Dewhurst , I think , said one of the ladies , speaking with a strong foreign accent . 
At your service , Madame , he replied , as he ceremoniously kissed the hands of both the ladies , then turned to the men and shook them both warmly by the hand . 
Sally was already helping the ladies to take off their traveling cloaks , and both turned , with a shiver , towards the brightly blazing hearth . 
There was a general movement among the company in the coffee room . 
Sally had bustled off to her kitchen whilst Jellyband , still profuse with his respectful salutations , arranged one or two chairs around the fire . 
Mr. Hempseed , touching his forelock , was quietly vacating the seat in the hearth . 
Everyone was staring curiously , yet deferentially , at the foreigners . 
Only that you are glad to be in England , Comtesse , replied Lord Antony , and that you have not suffered too much from your trying voyage . 
Indeed , indeed , we are glad to be in England , she said , while her eyes filled with tears , and we have already forgotten all that we have suffered . 
I hope my friend , Sir Andrew Ffoulkes , proved an entertaining travelling companion , madame ? Ah , indeed , Sir Andrew was kindness itself . 
A bit of it , Mademoiselle , replied Sir Andrew , smiling , but all of it , at your service . 
The young girl blushed again , but this time a bright smile , fleet and sweet , illumined her dainty face . 
But , I say , supper ! here broke in Lord Antony's jovial voice , supper , honest Jellyband . 
Where is that pretty wench of yours and the dish of soup ? Zooks , man , while you stand there gaping at the ladies , they will faint with hunger . 
Odd's life , supper at last ! ejaculated Lord Antony , merrily , as he gallantly offered his arm to the Comtesse . 
May I have the honour ? he added ceremoniously , as he led her towards the supper table . 
She looked a very dainty picture of English rural life , and no wonder that the susceptible young Frenchman could scarce take his eyes off her pretty face . 
The Vicomte de Tournay was scarce nineteen , a beardless boy , on whom terrible tragedies which were being enacted in his own country had made but little impression . 
He was elegantly and even foppishly dressed , and once safely landed in England he was evidently ready to forget the horrors of the Revolution in the delights of English life . 
Pardi , if zis is England , he said as he continued to ogle Sally with marked satisfaction , I am of it satisfied . 
It would be impossible at this point to record the exact exclamation which escaped through Mr. Harry Waite's clenched teeth . 
Only respect for the quality , and notably for my Lord Antony , kept his marked disapproval of the young foreigner in check . 
Lord Antony had already sat down at the head of the table with the Comtesse on his right . 
Jellyband was bustling round , filling glasses and putting chairs straight . 
Sally waited , ready to hand round the soup . 
Mr. Harry Waite's friends had at last succeeded in taking him out of the room , for his temper was growing more and more violent under the Vicomte's obvious admiration for Sally . 
Suzanne , came in stern , commanding accents from the rigid Comtesse . 
Her mother's voice brought her back to reality once more , and with a submissive Yes , Mama , she took her place at the supper table . 
As he did so , he gave one quick glance all around him . 
The stranger then , with a loud Good night , quietly walked out of the coffee room . 
Alone , at last ! said Lord Antony , jovially . 
God bless him for his hospitality to us all , poor exiles from France . 
His Majesty the King ! echoed Lord Antony and Sir Andrew as they drank loyally to the toast . 
To His Majesty King Louis of France , added Sir Andrew , with solemnity . 
May God protect him , and give him victory over his enemies . 
Everyone rose and drank this toast in silence . 
The fate of the unfortunate King of France , then a prisoner of his own people , seemed to cast a gloom even over Mr. Jellyband's pleasant countenance . 
And to M. le Comte de Tournay de Basserive , said Lord Antony , merrily . 
May we welcome him in England before many days are over . 
Ah , Monsieur , said the Comtesse , as with a slightly trembling hand she conveyed her glass to her lips , I scarcely dare to hope . 
But already Lord Antony had served out the soup , and for the next few moments all conversation ceased , while Jellyband and Sally handed round the plates and everyone began to eat . 
Ah , Monsieur , replied the Comtesse , with a heavy sigh , I trust in God I can but pray and hope . 
Indeed , indeed , Monsieur , she replied , I have the fullest confidence in you and your friends . 
Your fame , I assure you , has spread throughout the whole of France . 
But my husband , Monsieur , said the Comtesse , whilst unshed tears seemed to veil her voice , he is in such deadly peril I would never have left him , only . 
I was torn between my duty to him , and to them . 
They refused to go without me . 
and you and your friends assured me so solemnly that my husband would be safe . 
But , oh ! now that I am here amongst you all in this beautiful , free England I think of him , flying for his life , hunted like a poor beast . 
Ah ! I should not have left him . 
I should not have left him ! . 
The poor woman had completely broken down fatigue , sorrow and emotion had overmastered her rigid , aristocratic bearing . 
She was crying gently to herself , whilst Suzanne ran up to her and tried to kiss away her tears . 
Lord Antony and Sir Andrew had said nothing to interrupt the Comtesse whilst she was speaking . 
And so the two young men said nothing , and busied themselves in trying to hide their feelings , only succeeding in looking immeasurably sheepish . 
He had spoken with so much warmth and vehemence that Suzanne's eyes fastened upon him in undisguised wonder . 
Your leader , Monsieur ? said the Comtesse , eagerly . 
Ah ! of course , you must have a leader . 
Alas , Madame ! said Lord Antony , that is impossible . 
Impossible ? Why ? Because the Scarlet Pimpernel works in the dark , and his identity is only known under the solemn oath of secrecy to his immediate followers . 
The Scarlet Pimpernel ? said Suzanne , with a merry laugh . 
Why ! what a droll name ! What is the Scarlet Pimpernel , Monsieur ? She looked at Sir Andrew with eager curiosity . 
The young man's face had become almost transfigured . 
His eyes shone with enthusiasm hero worship , love , admiration for his leader seemed literally to glow upon his face . 
Ah , yes , here interposed the young Vicomte , I have heard speak of this Scarlet Pimpernel . 
Yes ? Yes , that is so , assented Lord Antony . 
Then he will have received one such paper to day ? Undoubtedly . 
Oh ! I wonder what he will say ! said Suzanne , merrily . 
I have heard that the picture of that little red flower is the only thing that frightens him . 
Faith , then , said Sir Andrew , he will have many more opportunities of studying the shape of that small scarlet flower . 
Ah , monsieur , sighed the Comtesse , it all sounds like a romance , and I cannot understand it all . 
Ah , no , no , not sport only , Monsieur . 
you have a more noble motive , I am sure for the good work you do . 
Faith , Madame , I would like you to find it then . 
as for me , I vow , I love the game , for this is the finest sport I have yet encountered . 
the devil's own risks ! Tally ho ! and away we go ! But the Comtesse shook her head , still incredulously . 
Their nationality , once they had set foot in France , would be no safeguard to them . 
Anyone found harbouring or assisting suspected royalists would be ruthlessly condemned and summarily executed , whatever his nationality might be . 
How many are there in your brave league , Monsieur ? she asked timidly . 
Twenty all told , Mademoiselle , he replied , one to command , and nineteen to obey . 
All of us Englishmen , and all pledged to the same cause to obey our leader and to rescue the innocent . 
May God protect you all , Messieurs , said the Comtesse , fervently . 
He had done that so far , Madame . 
The women even , in France , have been more bitter against us aristocrats than the men , said the Vicomte , with a sigh . 
Ah , yes , added the Comtesse , while a look of haughty disdain and intense bitterness shot through her melancholy eyes , There was that woman , Marguerite St . 
She denounced the Marquis de St . 
Cyr and all his family to the awful tribunal of the Terror . 
Just ? said Lord Antony , as he shot a quick and apprehensive glance across at Sir Andrew . 
Yes ! replied the Comtesse , surely you know her . 
She was a leading actress of the Comedie Francaise , and she married an Englishman lately . 
You must know her Know her ? said Lord Antony . 
Know Lady Blakeney the most fashionable woman in London the wife of the richest man in England ? Of course , we all know Lady Blakeney . 
She was a school fellow of mine at the convent in Paris , interposed Suzanne , and we came over to England together to learn your language . 
I was very fond of Marguerite , and I cannot believe that she ever did anything so wicked . 
It certainly seems incredible , said Sir Andrew . 
You say that she actually denounced the Marquis de St . 
Cyr ? Why should she have done such a thing ? Surely there must be some mistake No mistake is possible , Monsieur , rejoined the Comtesse , coldly . 
Just's brother is a noted republican . 
There was some talk of a family feud between him and my cousin , the Marquis de St . 
Justs' are quite plebeian , and the republican government employs many spies . 
I assure you there is no mistake . 
You had not heard this story ? Faith , Madame , I did hear some vague rumours of it , but in England no one would credit it . 
Sir Percy Blakeney , her husband , is a very wealthy man , of high social position , the intimate friend of the Prince of Wales . 
and Lady Blakeney leads both fashion and society in London . 
The proverbial wet blanket seemed to have fallen over the merry little company gathered round the table . 
As for Lord Antony , he looked extremely uncomfortable , and glanced once or twice apprehensively towards Jellyband , who looked just as uncomfortable as himself . 
At what time do you expect Sir Percy and Lady Blakeney ? he contrived to whisper unobserved , to mine host . 
Any moment , my lord , whispered Jellyband in reply . 
Sir Percy Blakeney and my lady , he shouted at the top of his voice , they're just arriving . 
CHAPTER V MARGUERITE In a moment the pleasant oak raftered coffee room of the inn became the scene of hopeless confusion and discomfort . 
For goodness' sake , man , admonished his lordship , try to keep Lady Blakeney talking outside for a moment while the ladies withdraw . 
Zounds ! he added , with another more emphatic oath , this is most unfortunate . 
Quick Sally ! the candles ! shouted Jellyband , as hopping about from one leg to another , he ran hither and thither , adding to the general discomfort of everybody . 
Let the poor man be and give him some supper at my expense . 
The voice was low and musical , with a slight sing song in it , and a faint SOUPCON of foreign intonation in the pronunciation of the consonants . 
Everyone in the coffee room heard it and paused instinctively , listening to it for a moment . 
Oh ! Mama ! pleaded Suzanne . 
came in feeble accents from Jellyband , who stood clumsily trying to bar the way . 
And the next moment Lady Blakeney , gently pushing mine host on one side , had swept into the coffee room . 
There are many portraits and miniatures extant of Marguerite St . 
Just Lady Blakeney as she was then but it is doubtful if any of these really do her singular beauty justice . 
Marguerite Blakeney was then scarcely five and twenty , and her beauty was at its most dazzling stage . 
With a quick glance all around the room , Marguerite Blakeney had taken stock of every one there . 
She nodded pleasantly to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes , whilst extending a hand to Lord Antony . 
Hello ! my Lord Tony , why what are YOU doing here in Dover ? she said merrily . 
Then , without waiting for a reply , she turned and faced the Comtesse and Suzanne . 
Her whole face lighted up with additional brightness , as she stretched out both arms towards the young girl . 
Why ! if that isn't my little Suzanne over there . 
Lord Tony and Sir Andrew watched the little scene with eager apprehension . 
Just , the brother of beautiful Lady Blakeney though known to hold moderate and conciliatory views was an ardent republican his feud with the ancient family of St . 
Cyr the rights and wrongs of which no outsider ever knew had culminated in the downfall , the almost total extinction of the latter . 
Suzanne , I forbid you to speak to that woman , said the Comtesse , sternly , as she placed a restraining hand upon her daughter's arm . 
She had spoken in English , so that all might hear and understand the two young English gentlemen was as well as the common innkeeper and his daughter . 
As for Lord Antony and Sir Andrew Ffoulkes , their very hearts seemed to stand still with horror at this gratuitous insult . 
Alone among those present Marguerite Blakeney and these Comtesse de Tournay had remained seemingly unmoved . 
The latter , rigid , erect and defiant , with one hand still upon her daughter's arm , seemed the very personification of unbending pride . 
There was silence in the old inn parlour for a moment , as the rustle of the Comtesse's skirts died away down the passage . 
Suzanne's sweet and dainty impulse had relieved the unpleasant tension . 
Sir Andrew's eyes followed the pretty little figure , until it had quite disappeared , then they met Lady Blakeney's with unassumed merriment . 
Marguerite , with dainty affection , had kissed her hand to the ladies , as they disappeared through the door , then a humorous smile began hovering round the corners of her mouth . 
So that's it , is it ? she said gaily . 
La ! Sir Andrew , did you ever see such an unpleasant person ? I hope when I grow old I sha'n't look like that . 
She gathered up her skirts and assuming a majestic gait , stalked towards the fireplace . 
Lud , man , rejoined Marguerite , with a shrug of her graceful shoulders , tis impossible to hate Sir Percy for anything his witty sallies would disarm even Madame la Comtesse herself . 
It was nearly a year ago now that Sir Percy Blakeney , Bart . 
Just had first made her DEBUT in artistic Parisian circles , at the very moment when the greatest social upheaval the world has ever known was taking place within its very walls . 
Those friends who knew , laughed to scorn the idea that Marguerite St . 
Just had married a fool for the sake of the worldly advantages with which he might endow her . 
They knew , as a matter of fact , that Marguerite St . 
Just any position she might choose to covet . 
As for Sir Percy himself , he was universally voted to be totally unqualified for the onerous post he had taken upon himself . 
Although lately he had been so prominent a figure in fashionable English society , he had spent most of his early life abroad . 
His father , the late Sir Algernon Blakeney , had had the terrible misfortune of seeing an idolized young wife become hopelessly insane after two years of happy married life . 
Sir Algernon took his afflicted young wife abroad , and there presumably Percy was educated , and grew up between an imbecile mother and a distracted father , until he attained his majority . 
Sir Percy Blakeney had travelled a great deal abroad , before he brought home his beautiful , young , French wife . 
Within six months they were the acknowledged leaders of fashion and of style . 
Sir Percy's coats were the talk of the town , his inanities were quoted , his foolish laugh copied by the gilded youth at Almack's or the Mall . 
Thus society accepted him , petted him , made much of him , since his horses were the finest in the country , his FETES and wines the most sought after . 
As for his marriage with the cleverest woman in Europe , well ! the inevitable came with sure and rapid footsteps . 
No one pitied him , since his fate was of his own making . 
Physically , Sir Percy Blakeney was undeniably handsome always excepting the lazy , bored look which was habitual to him . 
He was always irreproachable dressed , and wore the exaggerated Incroyable fashions , which had just crept across from Paris to England , with the perfect good taste innate in an English gentleman . 
How do , Tony ? How do , Ffoulkes ? he said , recognizing the two young men and shaking them by the hand . 
Zounds , my dear fellow , he added , smothering a slight yawn , did you ever see such a beastly day ? Demmed climate this . 
La ! said Sir Percy , after a moment or two's silence , as no one offered any comment , how sheepish you all look . 
The laugh which accompanied this remark was evidently intended to reassure Sir Percy as to the gravity of the incident . 
It apparently succeeded in that , for echoing the laugh , he rejoined placidly La , m'dear ! you don't say so . 
I cannot ask your pardon for my mother what she does is right in my eyes . 
But I am ready to offer you the usual reparation between men of honour . 
Lud , Sir Andrew , said Marguerite , with one of her merry infectious laughs , look on that pretty picture the English turkey and the French bantam . 
The simile was quite perfect , and the English turkey looked down with complete bewilderment upon the dainty little French bantam , which hovered quite threateningly around him . 
I protest tis marvellous ! continued Sir Percy , imperturbably , demmed marvellous ! Don't you think so , Tony eh ? I vow I can't speak the French lingo like that . 
What ? Nay , I'll vouch for that ! rejoined Marguerite , Sir Percy has a British accent you could cut with a knife . 
Monsieur , interposed the Vicomte earnestly , and in still more broken English , I fear you have not understand . 
I offer you the only posseeble reparation among gentlemen . 
What the devil is that ? asked Sir Percy , blandly . 
My sword , Monsieur , replied the Vicomte , who , though still bewildered , was beginning to lose his temper . 
You are a sportsman , Lord Tony , said Marguerite , merrily ten to one on the little bantam . 
Lud love you , sir , he muttered good humouredly . 
What he said resolved itself into a single articulate word , for all the others were choked in his throat by his surging wrath A duel , Monsieur , he stammered . 
As for me , sir , I never fight duels , he added , as he placidly sat down and stretched his long , lazy legs out before him . 
I pray you , Lord Tony , she said in that gentle , sweet , musical voice of hers , I pray you play the peacemaker . 
The child is bursting with rage , and , she added with a SOUPCON of dry sarcasm , might do Sir Percy an injury . 
She laughed a mocking little laugh , which , however , did not in the least disturb her husband's placid equanimity . 
The British turkey has had the day , she said . 
Sir Percy would provoke all the saints in the calendar and keep his temper the while . 
But already Blakeney , good humoured as ever , had joined in the laugh against himself . 
Demmed smart that now , wasn't it ? he said , turning pleasantly to the Vicomte . 
Clever woman my wife , sir . 
You will find THAT out if you live long enough in England . 
Sir Percy is right , Vicomte , here interposed Lord Antony , laying a friendly hand on the young Frenchman's shoulder . 
It would hardly be fitting that you should commence your career in England by provoking him to a duel . 
You mi'lor' , are our protector . 
If I have done wrong , I withdraw myself . 
Aye , do ! rejoined Blakeney , with a long sigh of satisfaction , withdraw yourself over there . 
La , Sir Percy , your chivalry misguides you , said Marguerite , coquettishly , you forget that you yourself have imported one bundle of goods from France . 
More so than your chivalry , I fear , she retorted sarcastically . 
ha ! ha ! ha ! ha ! you must have looked a pretty picture . 
and to be afraid of a little French boy . 
ha ! ha ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! he ! he ! he ! echoed Sir Percy , good humouredly . 
La , Madame , you honour me ! Zooks ! Ffoulkes , mark ye that ! I have made my wife laugh ! The cleverest woman in Europe ! . 
Odd's fish , we must have a bowl on that ! and he tapped vigorously on the table near him . 
Hey ! Jelly ! Quick , man ! Here , Jelly ! Harmony was once more restored . 
Mr. Jellyband , with a mighty effort , recovered himself from the many emotions he had experienced within the last half hour . 
A bowl of punch , Jelly , hot and strong , eh ? said Sir Percy . 
The skipper will be here directly and my brother must get on board , or the DAY DREAM will miss the tide . 
Time , m'dear ? There is plenty of time for any gentleman to get drunk and get on board before the turn of the tide . 
I think , your ladyship , said Jellyband , respectfully , that the young gentleman is coming along now with Sir Percy's skipper . 
That's right , said Blakeney , then Armand can join us in the merry bowl . 
In fact you are all such merry company , said Marguerite , that I trust you will forgive me if I bid my brother good bye in another room . 
It would have been bad form to protest . 
Both Lord Antony and Sir Andrew felt that Lady Blakeney could not altogether be in tune with them at the moment . 
Her love for her brother , Armand St . 
Just , was deep and touching in the extreme . 
Sir Percy also made no attempt to detain his wife . 
CHAPTER VII THE SECRET ORCHARD Once outside the noisy coffee room , along in the dimly lighted passage , Marguerite Blakeney seemed to breathe more freely . 
Marguerite Blakeney stepped on to the porch and looked out to sea . 
Silhouetted against the ever changing sky , a graceful schooner , with white sails set , was gently dancing in the breeze . 
The DAY DREAM it was , Sir Percy Blakeney's yacht , which was ready to take Armand St . 
Armand ! said Marguerite Blakeney , as soon as she saw him approaching from the distance , and a happy smile shone on her sweet face , even through the tears . 
A minute or two later brother and sister were locked in each other's arms , while the old skipper stood respectfully on one side . 
How much time have we got , Briggs ? asked Lady Blakeney , before M. St . 
Just need go on board ? We ought to weigh anchor before half an hour , your ladyship , replied the old man , pulling at his grey forelock . 
Linking her arm in his , Marguerite led her brother towards the cliffs . 
I am not going far , sweet one , said the young man gently , a narrow channel to cross a few miles of road I can soon come back . 
Nay , tis not the distance , Armand but that awful Paris . 
They had reached the edge of the cliff . 
The gentle sea breeze blew Marguerite's hair about her face , and sent the ends of her soft lace fichu waving round her , like a white and supple snake . 
Our own beautiful country , Marguerite , said Armand , who seemed to have divined her thoughts . 
They are going too far , Armand , she said vehemently . 
You are a republican , so am I. . 
we have the same thoughts , the same enthusiasm for liberty and equality . 
but even YOU must think that they are going too far . 
Hush ! said Armand , instinctively , as he threw a quick , apprehensive glance around him . 
Her voice was choked in sobs , her eyes , tender , blue and loving , gazed appealingly at the young man , who in his turn looked steadfastly into hers . 
Even as he spoke , that sweet childlike smile crept back into her face , pathetic in the extreme , for it seemed drowned in tears . 
Oh ! Armand ! she said quaintly , I sometimes wish you had not so many lofty virtues . 
I assure you little sins are far less dangerous and uncomfortable . 
But you WILL be prudent ? she added earnestly . 
Remember , dear , I have only you . 
Nay , sweet one , you have other interests now . 
A look of strange wistfulness crept into her eyes as she murmured , He did . 
There , there , dear , don't distress yourself on my account . 
Nay ! he interrupted energetically , I will distress myself on your account , my Margot . 
Listen , dear , I have not spoken of these things to you before something always seemed to stop me when I wished to question you . 
But , somehow , I feel as if I could not go away and leave you now without asking you one question . 
You need not answer it if you do not wish , he added , as he noted a sudden hard look , almost of apprehension , darting through her eyes . 
What is it ? she asked simply . 
Does Sir Percy Blakeney know that . 
I mean , does he know the part you played in the arrest of the Marquis de St . 
Cyr ? She laughed a mirthless , bitter , contemptuous laugh , which was like a jarring chord in the music of her voice . 
That I denounced the Marquis de St . 
Cyr , you mean , to the tribunal that ultimately sent him and all his family to the guillotine ? Yes , he does know . 
I told him after I married him . 
She spoke with vehement bitterness this time , and Armand St . 
Just , who loved her so dearly , felt that he had placed a somewhat clumsy finger upon an aching wound . 
But Sir Percy loved you , Margot , he repeated gently . 
Loved me ? Well , Armand , I thought at one time that he did , or I should not have married him . 
He seemed to worship me with a curious intensity of concentrated passion , which went straight to my heart . 
I had never loved any one before , as you know , and I was four and twenty then so I naturally thought that it was not in my nature to love . 
But it has always seemed to me that it MUST be HEAVENLY to be loved blindly , passionately , wholly . 
worshipped , in fact and the very fact that Percy was slow and stupid was an attraction for me , as I thought he would love me all the more . 
A clever man would naturally have other interests , an ambitious man other hopes . 
I thought that a fool would worship , and think of nothing else . 
And I was ready to respond , Armand I would have allowed myself to be worshipped , and given infinite tenderness in return . 
She sighed and there was a world of disillusionment in that sigh . 
Just had allowed her to speak on without interruption he listened to her , whilst allowing his own thoughts to run riot . 
She had been young , misguided , ill advised perhaps . 
Yet even now , his own sister puzzled him . 
Life and love have such strange vagaries . 
Marguerite was gazing out towards the sunset . 
But he could not broach that subject with her . 
He knew her strange , passionate nature so well , and knew that reserve which lurked behind her frank , open ways . 
The had always been together , these two , for their parents had died when Armand was still a youth , and Marguerite but a child . 
There was much Armand St . 
And now Armand was going away she feared for his safety , she longed for his presence . 
She would not spoil these last few sadly sweet moments by speaking about herself . 
CHAPTER VIII THE ACCREDITED AGENT The afternoon was rapidly drawing to a close and a long , chilly English summer's evening was throwing a misty pall over the green Kentish landscape . 
Sir Percy had had the delicacy to leave her severely alone . 
He , whose notions of propriety and decorum were supersensitive , had not suggested even that an attendant should remain within call . 
Yes ! she often wished to wound him , to make him feel that she too held him in contempt , that she too had forgotten that she had almost loved him . 
Loved that inane fop ! whose thoughts seemed unable to soar beyond the tying of a cravat or the new cut of a coat . 
Bah ! And yet ! . 
Then suddenly that love , that devotion , which throughout his courtship she had looked upon as the slavish fidelity of a dog , seemed to vanish completely . 
Twenty four hours after the simple little ceremony at old St . 
Roch , she had told him the story of how , inadvertently , she had spoken of certain matters connected with the Marquis de St . 
Cyr before some men her friends who had used this information against the unfortunate Marquis , and sent him and his family to the guillotine . 
Years ago , Armand , her dear brother , loved Angele de St . 
Just was a plebeian , and the Marquis full of the pride and arrogant prejudices of his caste . 
One day Armand , the respectful , timid lover , ventured on sending a small poem enthusiastic , ardent , passionate to the idol of his dreams . 
The next night he was waylaid just outside Paris by the valets of Marquis de St . 
Cyr , and ignominiously thrashed thrashed like a dog within an inch of his life because he had dared to raise his eyes to the daughter of the aristocrat . 
Then the day of retribution came . 
Cyr and his kin had found their masters , in those same plebeians whom they had despised . 
Armand and Marguerite , both intellectual , thinking beings , adopted with the enthusiasm of their years the Utopian doctrines of the Revolution , while the Marquis de St . 
Cyr and his family fought inch by inch for the retention of those privileges which had placed them socially above their fellow men . 
Cyrs were in treasonable correspondence with Austria , hoping to obtain the Emperor's support to quell the growing revolution in their own country . 
In those days one denunciation was sufficient Marguerite's few thoughtless words anent the Marquis de St . 
Cyr bore fruit within twenty four hours . 
His papers were searched letters from the Austrian Emperor , promising to send troops against the Paris populace , were found in his desk . 
He was arraigned for treason against the nation , and sent to the guillotine , whilst his family , his wife and his sons , shared in this awful fate . 
Now they had drifted quite apart , and Sir Percy seemed to have laid aside his love for her , as he would an ill fitting glove . 
With another heavy sigh , Marguerite Blakeney turned her back upon the sea and cliffs , and walked slowly back towards The Fisherman's Rest . 
As she drew near , the sound of revelry , of gay , jovial laughter , grew louder and more distinct . 
the next moment she perceived a stranger coming rapidly towards her . 
Marguerite did not look up she was not the least nervous , and The Fisherman's Rest was now well within call . 
The stranger paused when he saw Marguerite coming quickly towards him , and just as she was about to slip past him , he said very quietly Citoyenne St . 
Marguerite uttered a little cry of astonishment , at thus hearing her own familiar maiden name uttered so close to her . 
She looked up at the stranger , and this time , with a cry of unfeigned pleasure , she put out both her hands effusively towards him . 
Himself , citoyenne , at your service , said the stranger , gallantly kissing the tips of her fingers . 
Marguerite said nothing for a moment or two , as she surveyed with obvious delight the not very prepossessing little figure before her . 
Chauvelin was then nearer forty than thirty a clever , shrewd looking personality , with a curious fox like expression in the deep , sunken eyes . 
He was the same stranger who an hour or two previously had joined Mr. Jellyband in a friendly glass of wine . 
said Marguerite , with a pretty little sigh of satisfaction . 
I am mightily pleased to see you . 
No doubt poor Marguerite St . 
She did not notice the sarcastic little smile , however , that hovered round the thin lips of Chauvelin . 
What of yourself ? Oh , I ? she said , with a shrug of the shoulders . 
Je m'ennuie , mon ami , that is all . 
They had reached the porch of The Fisherman's Rest , but Marguerite seemed loth to go within . 
Chauvelin stood beside her , his shrewd , pale , yellow eyes fixed on the pretty face , which looked so sweet and childlike in this soft English summer twilight . 
You surprise me , citoyenne , he said quietly , as he took a pinch of snuff . 
Do I now ? she retorted gaily . 
Faith , my little Chauvelin , I should have thought that , with your penetration , you would have guessed that an atmosphere composed of fogs and virtues would never suit Marguerite St . 
Dear me ! is it as bad as that ? he asked , in mock consternation . 
Quite , she retorted , and worse . 
Strange ! Now , I thought that a pretty woman would have found English country life peculiarly attractive . 
Quite so ! You'll hardly believe it , my little Chauvelin , she said earnestly , but I often pass a whole day a whole day without encountering a single temptation . 
No wonder , retorted Chauvelin , gallantly , that the cleverest woman in Europe is troubled with ENNUI . 
She laughed one of her melodious , rippling , childlike laughs . 
It must be pretty bad , mustn't it ? she asked archly , or I should not have been so pleased to see you . 
And this within a year of a romantic love match . 
that idyllic folly , said Chauvelin , with quiet sarcasm , did not then survive the lapse of . 
weeks ? Idyllic follies never last , my little Chauvelin . 
They come upon us like the measles . 
and are as easily cured . 
No wonder , he repeated , with the same gallantry , that the most active brain in Europe is troubled with ENNUI . 
I was in hopes that you had a prescription against the malady , my little Chauvelin . 
I have a most perfect prescription against the worst form of ENNUI , which I would have been happy to submit to you , but But what ? There IS Sir Percy . 
What has he to do with it ? Quite a good deal , I am afraid . 
The prescription I would offer , fair lady , is called by a very plebeian name Work ! Work ? Chauvelin looked at Marguerite long and scrutinisingly . 
It seemed as if those keen , pale eyes of his were reading every one of her thoughts . 
They were alone together the evening air was quite still , and their soft whispers were drowned in the noise which came from the coffee room . 
Will you render France a small service , citoyenne ? he asked , with a sudden change of manner , which lent his thin , fox like face a singular earnestness . 
La , man ! she replied flippantly , how serious you look all of a sudden . 
Indeed I do not know if I WOULD render France a small service at any rate , it depends upon the kind of service she or you want . 
Have you ever heard of the Scarlet Pimpernel , Citoyenne St . 
Just ? asked Chauvelin , abruptly . 
Heard of the Scarlet Pimpernel ? she retorted with a long and merry laugh , Faith man ! we talk of nothing else . 
We have hats 'a la Scarlet Pimpernel' our horses are called Scarlet Pimpernel' at the Prince of Wales' supper party the other night we had a souffle a la Scarlet Pimpernel . 
Chauvelin had not moved while she prattled merrily along he did not even attempt to stop her when her musical voice and her childlike laugh went echoing through the still evening air . 
of men like Armand St . 
she said , with a quaint little sigh , I dare swear he is . 
France has many bitter enemies these days . 
But you , citoyenne , are a daughter of France , and should be ready to help her in a moment of deadly peril . 
My brother Armand devotes his life to France , she retorted proudly as for me , I can do nothing . 
he urged still more earnestly , whilst his thin fox like face seemed suddenly to have grown impressive and full of dignity , here , in England , citoyenne . 
you alone can help us . 
Listen ! I have been sent over here by the Republican Government as its representative I present my credentials to Mr. Pitt in London to morrow . 
You know as well as I do , citoyenne , that once they are over here , those French EMIGRES try to rouse public feeling against the Republic . 
They are ready to join issue with any enemy bold enough to attack France . 
Now , within the last month scores of these EMIGRES , some only suspected of treason , others actually condemned by the Tribunal of Public Safety , have succeeded in crossing the Channel . 
Their escape in each instance was planned , organized and effected by this society of young English jackanapes , headed by a man whose brain seems as resourceful as his identity is mysterious . 
Find that man for me , citoyenne ! he urged , find him for France . 
Marguerite had listened to Chauvelin's impassioned speech without uttering a word , scarce making a movement , hardly daring to breathe . 
Robespierre , Danton , Marat , she had not known in their new guise of bloody judiciaries , merciless wielders of the guillotine . 
Her very soul recoiled in horror from these excesses , to which she feared her brother Armand moderate republican as he was might become one day the holocaust . 
Find him for France , citoyenne ! Chauvelin's voice close to her ear roused her from her dreams . 
The mysterious hero had vanished , and , not twenty yards away from her , a man was drinking and laughing , to whom she had sworn faith and loyalty . 
La ! man , she said with a return of her assumed flippancy , you are astonishing . 
you see everything , you HEAR everything . 
For the sake of France , citoyenne ! reiterated Chauvelin , earnestly . 
What you propose is horrible , Chauvelin , she said , drawing away from him as from some noisome insect . 
Whoever the man may be , he is brave and noble , and never do you hear me ? never would I lend a hand to such villiany . 
You prefer to be insulted by every French aristocrat who comes to this country ? Chauvelin had taken sure aim when he shot this tiny shaft . 
Marguerite's fresh young cheeks became a thought more pale and she bit her under lip , for she would not let him see that the shaft had struck home . 
That is beside the question , she said at last with indifference . 
I can defend myself , but I refuse to do any dirty work for you or for France . 
You have other means at your disposal you must use them , my friend . 
And without another look at Chauvelin , Marguerite Blakeney turned her back on him and walked straight into the inn . 
She threw open the coffee room door and disappeared from his view , but he remained under the porch for a moment or two , taking a pinch of snuff . 
A fifty mile drive on a starlit summer's night ! Marguerite had hailed the notion of it with delight . 
He never told her , and she had never cared to ask . 
At The Fisherman's Rest Mr. Jellyband was going the round , putting out the lights . 
I say , Jelly , has everyone gone ? asked Lord Tony , as the worthy landlord still busied himself clearing away glasses and mugs . 
Everyone , as you see , my lord . 
Then we can talk here undisturbed for half an hour ? At your service , my lord . 
I'll leave your candles on the dresser . 
and your rooms are quite ready . 
I sleep at the top of the house myself , but if your lordship'll only call loudly enough , I daresay I shall hear . 
I say , put the lamp out the fire'll give us all the light we need and we don't want to attract the passer by . 
Al ri' , my lord . 
Mr. Jellyband did as he was bid he turned out the quaint old lamp that hung from the raftered ceiling and blew out all the candles . 
Let's have a bottle of wine , Jelly , suggested Sir Andrew . 
Al ri' , sir ! Jellyband went off to fetch the wine . 
The room now was quite dark , save for the circle of ruddy and fitful light formed by the brightly blazing logs in the hearth . 
Is that all , gentlemen ? asked Jellyband , as he returned with a bottle of wine and a couple of glasses , which he placed on the table . 
That'll do nicely , thanks , Jelly ! said Lord Tony . 
Presently even that sound died out , and the whole of The Fisherman's Rest seemed wrapt in sleep , save the two young men drinking in silence beside the hearth . 
For a while no sound was heard , even in the coffee room , save the ticking of the old grandfather's clock and the crackling of the burning wood . 
All right again this time , Ffoulkes ? asked Lord Antony at last . 
Yes ! he said , still musing , all right ! No hitch ? None . 
Lord Antony laughed pleasantly as he poured himself out another glass of wine . 
I need not ask , I suppose , whether you found the journey pleasant this time ? No , friend , you need not ask , replied Sir Andrew , gaily . 
Then here's to her very good health , said jovial Lord Tony . 
She's a bonnie lass , though she IS a French one . 
And here's to your courtship may it flourish and prosper exceedingly . 
He drained his glass to the last drop , then joined his friend beside the hearth . 
You have no idea , Tony . 
No ! I haven't , interrupted his friend pleasantly , but I'll take your word for it . 
I saw the Scarlet Pimpernel alone , for a few moments in Calais , said Sir Andrew , a day or two ago . 
He crossed over to England two days before we did . 
Suzanne , and the Vicomte lay concealed among the turnips and cabbages . 
They , themselves , of course , never suspected who their driver was . 
Lord Antony , whose vocabulary was more limited than that of his friend , could only find an oath or two with which to show his admiration for his leader . 
He wants you and Hastings to meet him at Calais , said Sir Andrew , more quietly , on the nd of next month . 
Let me see ! that will be next Wednesday . 
It will be rare sport to get HIM out of France , and you will have a narrow escape , if you get through at all . 
Just has actually gone to meet him of course , no one suspects St . 
Just as yet but after that . 
to get them both out of the country ! I'faith , twill be a tough job , and tax even the ingenuity of our chief . 
I hope I may yet have orders to be of the party . 
Have you any special instructions for me ? Yes ! rather more precise ones than usual . 
When he wants to speak to us , he will contrive to let us know . 
You are to read these instructions and commit them to memory , said Sir Andrew , then destroy them . 
He was about to replace the letter case into his pocket , when a tiny slip of paper fluttered from it and fell on to the floor . 
Lord Antony stooped and picked it up . 
What's that ? he asked . 
I don't know , replied Sir Andrew . 
It dropped out of your pocket just now . 
It certainly does not seem to be with the other paper . 
Strange ! I wonder when it got there ? It is from the chief , he added , glancing at the paper . 
What's that ? said both instinctively . 
Simultaneously the crouching , snake like figure in the gloom had jumped up and hurled itself from behind upon the unsuspecting Sir Andrew , felling him to the ground . 
One man had in the meanwhile quietly shut the door he wore a mask and now stood motionless while the others completed their work . 
All safe , citoyen ! said one of the men , as he took a final survey of the bonds which secured the two young men . 
Good ! replied the man at the door now search their pockets and give me all the papers you find . 
This was promptly and quietly done . 
The masked man having taken possession of all the papers , listened for a moment or two if there were any sound within The Fisherman's Rest . 
Evidently satisfied that this dastardly outrage had remained unheard , he once more opened the door and pointed peremptorily down the passage . 
In the coffee room the masked leader of this daring attempt was quickly glancing through the stolen papers . 
Not a bad day's work . 
Just , seemed to give him strange satisfaction . 
Just a traitor after all , he murmured . 
Now , fair Marguerite Blakeney , he added viciously between his clenched teeth , I think that you will help me to find the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
CHAPTER X IN THE OPERA BOX It was one of the gala nights at Covent Garden Theatre , the first of the autumn season in this memorable year of grace . 
The house was packed , both in the smart orchestra boxes and in the pit , as well as in the more plebeian balconies and galleries above . 
In the smart orchestra boxes many well known faces were to be seen . 
Lord Grenville Foreign Secretary of State paid him marked , though frigid deference . 
Behind her sat little Suzanne and the Vicomte , both silent and somewhat shy among so many strangers . 
Suzanne's eyes seemed wistful when she first entered the crowded house , she had looked eagerly all around , scanning every face , scrutinised every box . 
Here is Madame la Comtesse de Tournay positively dying to hear the latest news from France . 
The distinguished diplomat had come forward and was shaking hands with the ladies . 
Alas ! he said sadly , it is of the very worst . 
The massacres continue Paris literally reeks with blood and the guillotine claims a hundred victims a day . 
Pale and tearful , the Comtesse was leaning back in her chair , listening horror struck to this brief and graphic account of what went on in her own misguided country . 
Ah , monsieur ! she said in broken English , it is dreadful to hear all that and my poor husband still in that awful country . 
It is terrible for me to be sitting here , in a theatre , all safe and in peace , whilst he is in such peril . 
The Comtesse smiled through her tears at the vehemence of her friend . 
I saw Lord Hastings yesterday . 
Then I am sure you need have no fear . 
What the league have sworn , that they surely will accomplish . 
Ah ! added the old diplomat with a sigh , if I were but a few years younger . 
La , man ! interrupted honest Lady Portarles , you are still young enough to turn your back on that French scarecrow that sits enthroned in your box to night . 
but your ladyship must remember that in serving our country we must put prejudices aside . 
M. Chauvelin is the accredited agent of his Government . 
I am sure , said the Comtesse , pursing up her thin lips , that if this Chauvelin wishes to do us mischief , he will find a faithful ally in Lady Blakeney . 
Lady Blakeney may or may not be in sympathy with those Ruffians in France she may or may not have had anything to do with the arrest and condemnation of St . 
She wore the short waisted classical shaped gown , which so soon was to become the approved mode in every country in Europe . 
It suited her graceful , regal figure to perfection , composed as it was of shimmering stuff which seemed a mass of rich gold embroidery . 
As she entered , she leant for a moment out of the box , taking stock of all those present whom she knew . 
Many bowed to her as she did so , and from the royal box there came also a quick and gracious salute . 
Marguerite was passionately fond of music . 
ORPHEUS charmed her to night . 
The very joy of living was writ plainly upon the sweet young face , it sparkled out of the merry blue eyes and lit up the smile that lurked around the lips . 
She was after all but five and twenty , in the hey day of youth , the darling of a brilliant throng , adored , FETED , petted , cherished . 
Sir Percy had strolled away , to talk to more congenial friends probably . 
A discreet knock at the door roused her from her enjoyment . 
Come in , she said with some impatience , without turning to look at the intruder . 
A word with you , citoyenne , he said quietly . 
Marguerite turned quickly , in alarm , which was not altogether feigned . 
Lud , man ! you frightened me , she said with a forced little laugh , your presence is entirely inopportune . 
I want to listen to Gluck , and have no mind for talking . 
Faith , man ! she said impatiently , you must seek for another opportunity then . 
I am going to Lord Grenville's ball to night after the opera . 
So are you , probably . 
I'll give you five minutes then . 
Three minutes in the privacy of this box are quite sufficient for me , he rejoined placidly , and I think that you will be wise to listen to me , Citoyenne St . 
Is that a threat , citoyen ? she asked at last . 
Nay , fair lady , he said gallantly , only an arrow shot into the air . 
Then he said quietly Your brother , St . 
Just , is in peril . 
Not a muscle moved in the beautiful face before him . 
Lud , then , she said with affected merriment , since tis one of your imaginary plots , you'd best go back to your own seat and leave me enjoy the music . 
And with her hand she began to beat time nervously against the cushion of the box . 
Selina Storace was singing the Che faro to an audience that hung spellbound upon the prima donna's lips . 
Chauvelin did not move from his seat he quietly watched that tiny nervous hand , the only indication that his shaft had indeed struck home . 
Well ? she said suddenly and irrelevantly , and with the same feigned unconcern . 
Well , citoyenne ? he rejoined placidly . 
About my brother ? I have news of him for you which , I think , will interest you , but first let me explain . 
May I ? The question was unnecessary . 
He felt , though Marguerite still held her head steadily averted from him , that her every nerve was strained to hear what he had to say . 
The other day , citoyenne , he said , I asked for your help . 
France needed it , and I thought I could rely on you , but you gave me your answer . 
Since then the exigencies of my own affairs and your own social duties have kept up apart . 
although many things have happened . 
To the point , I pray you , citoyen , she said lightly the music is entrancing , and the audience will get impatient of your talk . 
Marguerite seemed to have listened to him with marked impatience she now shrugged her shoulders and said gaily Bah ! man . 
Have I not already told you that I care nought about your schemes or about the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
And had you not spoken about my brother . 
A little patience , I entreat , citoyenne , he continued imperturbably . 
Two gentlemen , Lord Antony Dewhurst and Sir Andrew Ffoulkes were at The Fisherman's Rest' at Dover that same night . 
They were already known to my spies as members of that accursed league . 
It was Sir Andrew Ffoulkes who escorted the Comtesse de Tournay and her children across the Channel . 
In a moment she had guessed the danger . 
Had Armand been imprudent ? . 
The very thought struck her with nameless terror . 
Still she would not let this man see that she feared she laughed gaily and lightly . 
Faith ! and your impudence pases belief , she said merrily . 
Had they been caught they would have gone to jail , or even to the gallows , without a word of protest or indiscretion at any rate it was well worth the risk . 
A crowded inn is safer for these little operations than you think , and my men have experience . 
Well ? And those papers ? she asked carelessly . 
Unfortunately , though they have given me cognisance of certain names . 
Faith ! she added , ostentatiously smothering an imaginary yawn , had you not spoken about my brother . 
I am coming to him now , citoyenne . 
Among the papers there was a letter to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes , written by your brother , St . 
The blow had been struck at last . 
All along , Marguerite had been expecting it she would not show fear , she was determined to seem unconcerned , flippant even . 
She wished , when the shock came , to be prepared for it , to have all her wits about her those wits which had been nicknamed the keenest in Europe . 
Even now she did not flinch . 
That letter of Armand's foolish , imprudent Armand was in Chauvelin's hands . 
All that she knew , and yet she continued to laugh more gaily , more loudly than she had done before . 
La , man ! she said , speaking over her shoulder and looking him full and squarely in the face , did I not say it was some imaginary plot . 
Armand in league with that enigmatic Scarlet Pimpernel ! . 
Armand busy helping those French aristocrats whom he despises ! . 
Just is compromised beyond the slightest hope of pardon . 
Inside the orchestra box all was silent for a moment or two . 
Marguerite sat , straight upright , rigid and inert , trying to think , trying to face the situation , to realise what had best be done . 
It seems that my wits have become rusty by contact with this damp climate . 
Now , tell me , you are very anxious to discover the identity of the Scarlet Pimpernel , isn't that so ? France's most bitter enemy , citoyenne . 
all the more dangerous , as he works in the dark . 
All the more noble , you mean . 
At any rate , that is what it is called over here , she said drily . 
That is your intention , is it not ? My intention is , that you yourself win the free pardon for Armand St . 
Just by doing me a small service . 
What is it ? Only watch for me to night , Citoyenne St . 
Just , he said eagerly . 
Listen among the papers which were found about the person of Sir Andrew Ffoulkes there was a tiny note . 
See ! he added , taking a tiny scrap of paper from his pocket book and handing it to her . 
Marguerite took it mechanically and stooped to read it . 
There were only two lines , written in a distorted , evidently disguised , handwriting she read them half aloud Remember we must not meet more often than is strictly necessary . 
You have all instructions for the nd . 
If you wish to speak to me again , I shall be at G. 's ball . 
What does it mean ? she asked . 
Look again , citoyenne , and you will understand . 
There is a device here in the corner , a small red flower . 
The Scarlet Pimpernel , she said eagerly , and G. 's ball means Grenville's ball . 
He will be at my Lord Grenville's ball to night . 
That is how I interpret the note , citoyenne , concluded Chauvelin , blandly . 
But having found this tiny scrap of paper , my intention was that they should be in London , in time to attend my Lord Grenville's ball . 
You see , do you not ? that they must have a great deal to say to their chief . 
and thus they will have an opportunity of speaking to him to night , just as he directed them to do . 
I have not seen them yet , but I think we may safely conclude that they did not draw rein until they reached London . 
you take hold of it . 
then you wring its neck . 
it's only the chicken who does not find it quite so simple . 
Now you hold a knife at my throat , and a hostage for my obedience . 
Nay , citoyenne , I offer you a chance of saving the brother you love from the consequences of his own folly . 
Marguerite's face softened , her eyes at last grew moist , as she murmured , half to herself The only being in the world who has loved me truly and constantly . 
But what do you want me to do , Chauvelin ? she said , with a world of despair in her tear choked voice . 
You are going to the ball anon . 
Watch for me there , citoyenne , watch and listen . 
You can tell me if you hear a chance word or whisper . 
You can note everyone to whom Sir Andrew Ffoulkes or Lord Antony Dewhurst will speak . 
You are absolutely beyond suspicion now . 
The Scarlet Pimpernel will be at Lord Grenville's ball to night . 
Find out who he is , and I will pledge the word of France that your brother shall be safe . 
Chauvelin was putting the knife to her throat . 
Marguerite felt herself entangled in one of those webs , from which she could hope for no escape . 
A precious hostage was being held for her obedience for she knew that this man would never make an empty threat . 
For a moment woman like she still hoped to temporise . 
She held out her hand to this man , whom she now feared and hated . 
If I promise to help you in this matter , Chauvelin , she said pleasantly , will you give me that letter of St . 
Just's ? If you render me useful service to night , citoyenne , he replied with a sarcastic smile , I will give you that letter . 
You do not trust me ? I trust you absolutely , dear lady , but St . 
Just's life is forfeit to his country . 
it rests with you to redeem it . 
I may be powerless to help you , she pleaded , were I ever so willing . 
That would be terrible indeed , he said quietly , for you . 
She felt that from this man she could expect no mercy . 
All powerful , he held the beloved life in the hollow of his hand . 
She knew him too well not to know that , if he failed in gaining his own ends , he would be pitiless . 
She felt cold in spite of the oppressive air of opera house . 
The heart appealing strains of the music seemed to reach her , as from a distant land . 
She drew her costly lace scarf up around her shoulders , and sat silently watching the brilliant scene , as if in a dream . 
For a moment her thoughts wandered away from the loved one who was in danger , to that other man who also had a claim on her confidence and her affection . 
She felt lonely , frightened for Armand's sake she longed to seek comfort and advice from someone who would know how to help and console . 
Just well he seemed attached to him she was sure that he could help . 
Chauvelin was taking no further heed of her . 
He had said his cruel Either or and left her to decide . 
He , in his turn now , appeared to be absorbed in the sour stirring melodies of ORPHEUS , and was beating time to the music with his sharp , ferret like head . 
A discreet rap at the door roused Marguerite from her thoughts . 
It was Sir Percy Blakeney , tall , sleepy , good humoured , and wearing that half shy , half inane smile , which just now seemed to irritate her every nerve . 
m'dear , he said , with his most exasperating drawl , I suppose you will want to go to that demmed ball . 
Excuse me er Monsieur Chauvelin I had not observed you . 
He extended two slender , white fingers toward Chauvelin , who had risen when Sir Percy entered the box . 
Are you coming , m'dear ? Hush ! Sh ! Sh ! came in angry remonstrance from different parts of the house . 
Demmed impudence , commented Sir Percy with a good natured smile . 
Her last hope seemed suddenly to have vanished away . 
She wrapped her cloak round her and without looking at her husband I am ready to go , she said , taking his arm . 
It is only AU REVOIR , Chauvelin , she said pleasantly , we shall meet at my Lord Grenville's ball , anon . 
CHAPTER XI LORD GRENVILLE'S BALL The historic ball given by the then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Lord Grenville was the most brilliant function of the year . 
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales had promised to be present . 
He was coming on presently from the opera . 
Lord Grenville himself had listened to the two first acts of ORPHEUS , before preparing to receive his guests . 
At ten o'clock an unusually late hour in those days the grand rooms of the Foreign Office , exquisitely decorated with exotic palms and flowers , were filled to overflowing . 
In a smaller chamber , facing the top of the fine stairway , the distinguished host stood ready to receive his guests . 
Not far from Lord Grenville's elbow , leaning against one of the console tables , Chauvelin , in his irreproachable black costume , was taking a quiet survey of the brilliant throng . 
He noted that Sir Percy and Lady Blakeney had not yet arrived , and his keen , pale eyes glanced quickly towards the door every time a new comer appeared . 
But Chauvelin was not the man to trouble himself about these social amenities , which he called mere incidents in his diplomatic career . 
But , above all , Chauvelin had a purpose at heart . 
And thus he looked upon every French aristocrat , who had succeeded in escaping from France , as so much prey of which the guillotine had been unwarrantably cheated . 
There is no doubt that those royalist EMIGRES , once they had managed to cross the frontier , did their very best to stir up foreign indignation against France . 
Small wonder , therefore , that the romantic and mysterious personality of the Scarlet Pimpernel was a source of bitter hatred to Chauvelin . 
He and the few young jackanapes under his command , well furnished with money , armed with boundless daring , and acute cunning , had succeeded in rescuing hundreds of aristocrats from France . 
Nine tenths of the EMIGRES , who were FETED at the English court , owed their safety to that man and to his league . 
Chauvelin had sworn to his colleagues in Paris that he would discover the identity of that meddlesome Englishman , entice him over to France , and then . 
Chauvelin drew a deep breath of satisfaction at the very thought of seeing that enigmatic head falling under the knife of the guillotine , as easily as that of any other man . 
Lord Grenville went quickly to the door to receive his exalted guest . 
He bowed very low , whilst the Prince returned his salute with a curt nod of the head . 
Monsieur , said His Royal Highness coldly , we will try to forget the government that sent you , and look upon you merely as our guest a private gentleman from France . 
As such you are welcome , Monsieur . 
Monseigneur , rejoined Chauvelin , bowing once again . 
Madame , he added , bowing ceremoniously before Marguerite . 
Ah ! my little Chauvelin ! she said with unconcerned gaiety , and extending her tiny hand to him . 
Monsieur and I are old friends , your Royal Highness . 
Ah , then , said the Prince , this time very graciously , you are doubly welcome , Monsieur . 
There is someone else I would crave permission to present to your Royal Highness , here interposed Lord Grenville . 
Ah ! who is it ? asked the Prince . 
Madame la Comtesse de Tournay de Basserive and her family , who have but recently come from France . 
By all means ! They are among the lucky ones then ! Lord Grenville turned in search of the Comtesse , who sat at the further end of the room . 
Faith , your Royal Highness , she rejoined with a smile , virtue is like precious odours , most fragrant when it is crushed . 
Virtue , alas ! sighed the Prince , is mostly unbecoming to your charming sex , Madame . 
Madame la Comtesse de Tournay de Basserive , said Lord Grenville , introducing the lady . 
This is a pleasure , Madame my royal father , as you know , is ever glad to welcome those of your compatriots whom France has driven from her shores . 
Your Royal Highness is ever gracious , replied the Comtesse with becoming dignity . 
Then , indicating her daughter , who stood timidly by her side My daughter Suzanne , Monseigneur , she said . 
Ah ! charming ! charming ! said the Prince , and now allow me , Comtesse , to introduce you , Lady Blakeney , who honours us with her friendship . 
You and she will have much to say to one another , I vow . 
Every compatriot of Lady Blakeney's is doubly welcome for her sake . 
her friends are our friends . 
her enemies , the enemies of England . 
Marguerite's blue eyes had twinkled with merriment at this gracious speech from her exalted friend . 
The Comtesse de Tournay , who lately had so flagrantly insulted her , was here receiving a public lesson , at which Marguerite could not help but rejoice . 
Your amiable reception of me at our last meeting still dwells pleasantly in my memory . 
We poor exiles , Madame , rejoined the Comtesse , frigidly , show our gratitude to England by devotion to the wishes of Monseigneur . 
Madame ! said Marguerite , with another ceremonious curtsey . 
Madame , responded the Comtesse with equal dignity . 
The Prince in the meanwhile was saying a few gracious words to the young Vicomte . 
I am happy to know you , Monsieur le Vicomte , he said . 
I knew your father well when he was ambassador in London . 
Ah , Monseigneur ! replied the Vicomte , I was a leetle boy then . 
and now I owe the honour of this meeting to our protector , the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
The Prince looked at him keenly for a moment or two . 
Faith , then , Monsieur , he said , perhaps you know more about our national hero than we do ourselves . 
perchance you know who he is . 
See ! he added , turning to the groups round the room , the ladies hang upon your lips . 
you would render yourself popular among the fair sex if you were to gratify their curiosity . 
Ah , Monseigneur , said Chauvelin , significantly , rumour has it in France that your Highness could an you would give the truest account of that enigmatical wayside flower . 
He looked quickly and keenly at Marguerite as he spoke but she betrayed no emotion , and her eyes met his quite fearlessly . 
Nay , man , replied the Prince , my lips are sealed ! and the members of the league jealously guard the secret of their chief . 
so his fair adorers have to be content with worshipping a shadow . 
Here in England , Monsieur , he added , with wonderful charm and dignity , we but name the Scarlet Pimpernel , and every fair cheek is suffused with a blush of enthusiasm . 
None have seen him save his faithful lieutenants . 
we tremble for him when he is in danger , and exult with him in the hour of his victory . 
Chauvelin did no more than bow placidly both to the Prince and to Marguerite he felt that both speeches were intended each in their way to convey contempt or defiance . 
A long , jovial , inane laugh broke the sudden silence which had fallen over everyone . 
And we poor husbands , came in slow , affected accents from gorgeous Sir Percy , we have to stand by . 
while they worship a demmed shadow . 
Everyone laughed the Prince more loudly than anyone . 
The tension of subdued excitement was relieved , and the next moment everyone was laughing and chatting merrily as the gay crowd broke up and dispersed in the adjoining rooms . 
CHAPTER XII THE SCRAP OF PAPER Marguerite suffered intensely . 
All done in the tying of a cravat , Sir Percy had declared to his clique of admirers . 
We seek him here , we seek him there , Those Frenchies seek him everywhere . 
Is he in heaven ? Is he in hell ? That demmed , elusive Pimpernel Sir Percy's BON MOT had gone the round of the brilliant reception rooms . 
He vowed that life without Blakeney would be but a dreary desert . 
Then , taking him by the arm , had led him to the card room , and engaged him in a long game of hazard . 
She would not allow herself any more time to think . 
Her early , somewhat Bohemian training had made her something of a fatalist . 
She felt that events would shape themselves , that the directing of them was not in her hands . 
From Chauvelin she knew that she could expect no mercy . 
He had set a price on Armand's head , and left it to her to pay or not , as she chose . 
Later on in the evening she caught sight of Sir Andrew Ffoulkes and Lord Antony Dewhurst , who seemingly had just arrived . 
Marguerite contrived for the moment to evade her present attentive cavalier , and she skirted the fashionable crowd , drawing nearer to the doorway , against which Sir Andrew was leaning . 
Suddenly she stopped her very heart seemed to stand still , her eyes , large and excited , flashed for a moment towards that doorway , then as quickly were turned away again . 
Fate is usually swift when she deals a blow . 
Now Lady Blakeney had suddenly ceased to exist . 
Just who was there only Marguerite St . 
Just who had passed her childhood , her early youth , in the protecting arms of her brother Armand . 
Sir Andrew was standing with his back to her and close to a table upon which stood a massive silver candelabra . 
A slip of paper was in his hand , and he was in the very act of perusing its contents . 
Unperceived , her soft clinging robe making not the slightest sound upon the heavy carpet , not daring to breathe until she had accomplished her purpose , Marguerite slipped close behind him . 
At that moment he looked round and saw her she uttered a groan , passed her hand across her forehead , and murmured faintly The heat in the room was terrible . 
You are ill , Lady Blakeney ? he asked with much concern , Let me . 
No , no , nothing she interrupted quickly . 
She sank into a chair close to the table , and throwing back her head , closing her eyes . 
There ! she murmured , still faintly the giddiness is passing off . 
Do not heed me , Sir Andrew I assure you I already feel better . 
Marguerite sat there with her eyes apparently closed . 
Sir Andrew was immediately behind her , and on her right was the table with the five armed candelabra upon it . 
Before her mental vision there was absolutely nothing but Armand's face . 
For one moment there was dead silence in the little boudoir . 
Sir Andrew had not uttered another word . 
Then it was that that extra sense became potent in Marguerite Blakeney . 
Then she blew out the flame , and held the paper to her nostril with perfect unconcern . 
How thoughtful of you , Sir Andrew , she said gaily , surely 'twas your grandmother who taught you that the smell of burnt paper was a sovereign remedy against giddiness . 
She sighed with satisfaction , holding the paper tightly between her jewelled fingers that talisman which perhaps would save her brother Armand's life . 
Marguerite burst into a long , merry peal of laughter . 
Why do you stare at me like that ? she said playfully . 
I assure you I feel much better your remedy has proved most effectual . 
This room is most delightedly cool , she added , with the same perfect composure , and the sound of the gavotte from the ball room is fascinating and soothing . 
Instinctively , vague and tumultuous thoughts rushed through his mind he suddenly remembered her nationality , and worst of all , recollected that horrible take anent the Marquis de St . 
Cyr , which in England no one had credited , for the sake of Sir Percy , as well as for her own . 
I vow it must have been your lady love's last cruel epistle you were trying to destroy . 
Eagerly the young man picked it up , and his face looked much relieved , as his fingers closed tightly over it . 
To think that , a moment longer , and I might have known the secrets of an erring duchess . 
He watched the fateful note , as it curled under the flame . 
Soon the last fragment fell on the floor , and he placed his heel upon the ashes . 
The whole was signed with the hastily scrawled little device a tiny star shaped flower , which had become so familiar to her . 
Close upon eleven ! the hands of the handsome Louis XV . 
clock upon its ormolu bracket seemed to move along with maddening rapidity . 
Two hours more , and her fate and that of Armand would be sealed . 
It seemed a horrible thing to do . 
But then , there was Armand ! Armand , too , was noble and brave , Armand , too , was unsuspecting . 
And Armand loved her , would have willingly trusted his life in her hands , and now , when she could save him from death , she hesitated . 
Oh ! it was monstrous her brother's kind , gentle face , so full of love for her , seemed to be looking reproachfully at her . 
She noted with that acute sense of hers that she had succeeded in completely allaying Sir Andrew's fears . 
She was too clever to overdo her part , and made no further allusions to the supposed BILLET DOUX , which had caused Sir Andrew Ffoulkes such an agonising five minutes . 
When the minuet was over , she asked Sir Andrew to take her into the next room . 
I have promised to go down to supper with His Royal Highness , she said , but before we part , tell me . 
am I forgiven ? Forgiven ? Yes ! Confess , I gave you a fright just now . 
But now , tell me , shall I welcome you at my water party on Wednesday ? I am not sure , Lady Blakeney , he replied evasively . 
I may have to leave London to morrow . 
He had led her across the room , to one beyond , where already His Royal Highness was waiting for the beautiful Lady Blakeney . 
Madame , supper awaits us , said the Prince , offering his arm to Marguerite , and I am full of hope . 
The goddess Fortune has frowned so persistently on me at hazard , that I look with confidence for the smiles of the goddess of Beauty . 
Your Highness has been unfortunate at the card tables ? asked Marguerite , as she took the Prince's arm . 
Blakeney , not content with being the richest among my father's subjects , has also the most outrageous luck . 
By the way , where is that inimitable wit ? I vow , Madam , that this life would be but a dreary desert without your smiles and his sallies . 
CHAPTER XIV ONE O'CLOCK PRECISELY ! Supper had been extremely gay . 
All those present declared that never had Lady Blakeney been more adorable , nor that demmed idiot Sir Percy more amusing . 
His Royal Highness had laughed until the tears streamed down his cheeks at Blakeney's foolish yet funny repartees . 
His doggerel verse , We seek him here , we seek him there , etc . 
, was sung to the tune of Ho ! Merry Britons ! and to the accompaniment of glasses knocked loudly against the table . 
Marguerite Blakeney was in her most brilliant mood , and surely not a soul in that crowded supper room had even an inkling of the terrible struggle which was raging within her heart . 
The clock was ticking so mercilessly on . 
It was long past midnight , and even the Prince of Wales was thinking of leaving the supper table . 
Within the next half hour the destinies of two brave men would be pitted against one another the dearly beloved brother and he , the unknown hero . 
But the minutes ticked on with that dull monotony which they invariably seem to assume when our very nerves ache with their incessant ticking . 
After supper , dancing was resumed . 
Marguerite did not feel equal to another dance there is a limit to the most enduring of self control . 
Escorted by a Cabinet Minister , she had once more found her way to the tiny boudoir , still the most deserted among all the rooms . 
She knew that Chauvelin must be lying in wait for her somewhere , ready to seize the first possible opportunity for a TETE A TETE . 
Fate had willed it so . 
Marguerite , torn by the most terrible conflict heart of woman can ever know , had resigned herself to its decrees . 
To think of Armand dying a traitor's death on the guillotine was too horrible even to dwell upon impossible in fact . 
That could never be , never . 
As for the stranger , the hero . 
well ! there , let Fate decide . 
Marguerite would redeem her brother's life at the hands of the relentless enemy , then let that cunning Scarlet Pimpernel extricate himself after that . 
Perhaps vaguely Marguerite hoped that the daring plotter , who for so many months had baffled an army of spies , would still manage to evade Chauvelin and remain immune to the end . 
Suddenly she saw the keen , fox like face of Chauvelin peeping through the curtained doorway . 
Lord Fancourt , she said to the Minister , will you do me a service ? I am entirely at your ladyship's service , he replied gallantly . 
The commands of a beautiful woman are binding on all mankind , even on Cabinet Ministers . 
Lord Fancourt prepared to obey instantly . 
I do not like to leave your ladyship alone , he said . 
I shall be quite safe here and , I think , undisturbed . 
but I am really tired . 
You know Sir Percy will drive back to Richmond . 
It is a long way , and we shall not an we do not hurry get home before daybreak . 
Lord Fancourt had perforce to go . 
The moment he had disappeared , Chauvelin slipped into the room , and the next instant stood calm and impassive by her side . 
You have news for me ? he said . 
An icy mantle seemed to have suddenly settled round Marguerite's shoulders though her cheeks glowed with fire , she felt chilled and numbed . 
I contrived no matter how to detect Sir Andrew Ffoulkes in the very act of burning a paper at one of these candles , in this very room . 
That paper I succeeded in holding between my fingers for the space of two minutes , and to cast my eyes on it for that of ten seconds . 
Time enough to learn its contents ? asked Chauvelin , quietly . 
Then continued in the same even , mechanical tone of voice In the corner of the paper there was the usual rough device of a small star shaped flower . 
Above it I read two lines , everything else was scorched and blackened by the flame . 
And what were the two lines ? Her throat seemed suddenly to have contracted . 
For an instant she felt that she could not speak the words , which might send a brave man to his death . 
It is lucky that the whole paper was not burned , added Chauvelin , with dry sarcasm , for it might have fared ill with Armand St . 
Chauvelin looked up at the clock just above the mantelpiece . 
Then I have plenty of time , he said placidly . 
What are you going to do ? she asked . 
She was pale as a statue , her hands were icy cold , her head and heart throbbed with the awful strain upon her nerves . 
What are you going to do ? she repeated mechanically . 
Oh , nothing for the present . 
After that it will depend . 
On what ? On whom I shall see in the supper room at one o'clock precisely . 
You will see the Scarlet Pimpernel , of course . 
But you do not know him . 
No. But I shall presently . 
Sir Andrew will have warned him . 
It was only natural , was it not ? that I should make a shrewd guess as to the nature of that something . 
I thereupon engaged the young man in a long and animated conversation we discussed Herr Gluck's singular success in London until a lady claimed his arm for supper . 
Since then ? I did not lose sight of him through supper . 
When we all came upstairs again , Lady Portarles buttonholed him and started on the subject of pretty Mlle . 
I think , he said , with a triumphant smile , that I may safely expect to find the person I seek in the dining room , fair lady . 
There may be more than one . 
ONE of these will be the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
Yes ? And ? I also , fair lady , will leave for France to morrow . 
All these places are given as the point where this meddlesome Englishman has bidden the traitor de Tournay and others to meet his emissaries . 
But it seems that he has decided not to send his emissaries , that he will start himself to morrow . 
And Armand ? she pleaded . 
More than that , I will pledge you the word of France , that the day I lay hands on that meddlesome Englishman , St . 
Just will be here in England , safe in the arms of his charming sister . 
And with a deep and elaborate bow and another look at the clock , Chauvelin glided out of the room . 
Fate HAD decided , had made her speak , had made her do a vile and abominable thing , for the sake of the brother she loved . 
She lay back in her chair , passive and still , seeing the figure of her relentless enemy ever present before her aching eyes . 
When Chauvelin reached the supper room it was quite deserted . 
It had that woebegone , forsaken , tawdry appearance , which reminds one so much of a ball dress , the morning after . 
Chauvelin pondered and tried to peer into the immediate future . 
No wonder that in France the SOBRIQUET of the mysterious Englishman roused in the people a superstitious shudder . 
Chauvelin himself as he gazed round the deserted room , where presently the weird hero would appear , felt a strange feeling of awe creeping all down his spine . 
But his plans were well laid . 
He felt sure that the Scarlet Pimpernel had not been warned , and felt equally sure that Marguerite Blakeney had not played him false . 
a cruel look , that would have made her shudder , gleamed in Chauvelin's keen , pale eyes . 
If she had played him a trick , Armand St . 
Just would suffer the extreme penalty . 
No one was here now save Chauvelin himself . 
Evidently the slumberer , deep in dreamless sleep , would not interfere with Chauvelin's trap for catching that cunning Scarlet Pimpernel . 
waited ! CHAPTER XV DOUBT Marguerite Blakeney had watched the slight sable clad figure of Chauvelin , as he worked his way through the ball room . 
Then perforce she had had to wait , while her nerves tingled with excitement . 
Her mind conjured up before her the vision of what was , perhaps at this very moment , passing downstairs . 
Faith ! your ladyship must have thought me very remiss , said a voice suddenly , close to her elbow . 
I had a deal of difficulty in delivering your message , for I could not find Blakeney anywhere at first . 
I did find him at last , continued Lord Fancourt , and gave him your message . 
He said that he would give orders at once for the horses to be put to . 
Ah ! she said , still very absently , you found my husband , and gave him my message ? Yes he was in the dining room fast asleep . 
I could not manage to wake him up at first . 
Thank you very much , she said mechanically , trying to collect her thoughts . 
Will your ladyship honour me with the CONTREDANSE until your coach is ready ? asked Lord Fancourt . 
No , I thank you , my lord , but and you will forgive me I really am too tired , and the heat in the ball room has become oppressive . 
The conservatory is deliciously cool let me take you there , and then get you something . 
You seem ailing , Lady Blakeney . 
I am only very tired , she repeated wearily , as she allowed Lord Fancourt to lead her , where subdued lights and green plants lent coolness to the air . 
He got her a chair , into which she sank . 
This long interval of waiting was intolerable . 
Why did not Chauvelin come and tell her the result of his watch ? Lord Fancourt was very attentive . 
Why does your ladyship ask ? I know not . 
Did you notice the time when you were there ? It must have been about five or ten minutes past one . 
I wonder what your ladyship is thinking about , he added , for evidently the fair lady's thoughts were very far away , and she had not been listening to his intellectual conversation . 
But indeed her thoughts were not very far away only one storey below , in this same house , in the dining room where sat Chauvelin still on the watch . 
Had he failed ? But then Armand ! Lord Fancourt had given up talking since he found that he had no listener . 
Shall I find out if your ladyship's coach is ready , he said at last , tentatively . 
if you would be so kind . 
I fear I am but sorry company . 
but I am really tired . 
and , perhaps , would be best alone . 
But Lord Fancourt went , and still Chauvelin did not come . 
Oh ! what had happened ? She felt Armand's fate trembling in the balance . 
She could not bear to think that all had failed . 
She could not sit still she wanted to go and hear the worst at once she wondered even that Chauvelin had not come yet , to vent his wrath and satire upon her . 
Lord Grenville himself came presently to tell her that her coach was ready , and that Sir Percy was already waiting for her ribbons in hand . 
Marguerite said Farewell to her distinguished host many of her friends stopped her , as she crossed the rooms , to talk to her , and exchange pleasant AU REVOIRS . 
There was a curious look on his mobile face , partly amused and wholly puzzled , as his keen eyes met Marguerite's they became strangely sarcastic . 
The crowd was very great , some of the Minister's guests were departing , others were leaning against the banisters watching the throng as it filed up and down the wide staircase . 
Chauvelin , she said at last desperately , I must know what has happened . 
What has happened , dear lady ? he said , with affected surprise . 
Where ? When ? You are torturing me , Chauvelin . 
I have helped you to night . 
surely I have the right to know . 
Quiet and peace reigned supreme , fair lady at that hour I was asleep in one corner of one sofa and Sir Percy Blakeney in another . 
Nobody came into the room at all ? Nobody . 
Then we have failed , you and I ? Yes ! we have failed perhaps . 
But Armand ? she pleaded . 
Just's chances hang on a thread . 
pray heaven , dear lady , that that thread may not snap . 
Chauvelin , I worked for you , sincerely , earnestly . 
I remember my promise , he said quietly . 
The day that the Scarlet Pimpernel and I meet on French soil , St . 
Just will be in the arms of his charming sister . 
Which means that a brave man's blood will be on my hands , she said , with a shudder . 
His blood , or that of your brother . 
Surely at the present moment you must hope , as I do , that the enigmatical Scarlet Pimpernel will start for Calais to day I am only conscious of one hope , citoyen . 
And that is ? That Satan , your master , will have need of you elsewhere , before the sun rises to day . 
You flatter me , citoyenne . 
She had detained him for a while , mid way down the stairs , trying to get at the thoughts which lay beyond that thin , fox like mask . 
But Chauvelin remained urbane , sarcastic , mysterious not a line betrayed to the poor , anxious woman whether she need fear or whether she dared to hope . 
Downstairs on the landing she was soon surrounded . 
Lady Blakeney never stepped from any house into her coach , without an escort of fluttering human moths around the dazzling light of her beauty . 
But before she finally turned away from Chauvelin , she held out a tiny hand to him , with that pretty gesture of childish appeal which was essentially her own . 
Give me some hope , my little Chauvelin , she pleaded . 
The night was warm in spite of the gentle breeze which fanned Marguerite's burning cheeks . 
Soon London houses were left behind , and rattling over old Hammersmith Bridge , Sir Percy was driving his bays rapidly towards Richmond . 
The river wound in and out in its pretty delicate curves , looking like a silver serpent beneath the glittering rays of the moon . 
Long shadows from overhanging trees spread occasional deep palls right across the road . 
The bays were rushing along at breakneck speed , held but slightly back by Sir Percy's strong , unerring hands . 
The drive was not a long one less than an hour , sometimes , when the bays were very fresh , and Sir Percy gave them full rein . 
To night he seemed to have a very devil in his fingers , and the coach seemed to fly along the road , beside the river . 
As usual , he did not speak to her , but stared straight in front of him , the ribbons seeming to lie quite loosely in his slender , white hands . 
Marguerite looked at him tentatively once or twice she could see his handsome profile , and one lazy eye , with its straight fine brow and drooping heavy lid . 
Marguerite suddenly felt intense sympathy for her husband . 
The moral crisis she had just gone through made her feel indulgent towards the faults , the delinquencies , of others . 
How thoroughly a human being can be buffeted and overmastered by Fate , had been borne in upon her with appalling force . 
Yet she had done these things anon , perhaps the death of that brave man would be at her door , just as two years ago the Marquis de St . 
Cyr had perished through a thoughtless words of hers but in that case she was morally innocent she had meant no serious harm fate merely had stepped in . 
But this time she had done a thing that obviously was base , had done it deliberately , for a motive which , perhaps , high moralists would not even appreciate . 
As she felt her husband's strong arm beside her , she also felt how much more he would dislike and despise her , if he knew of this night's work . 
Thus human beings judge of one another , with but little reason , and no charity . 
Sir Percy jumped down quickly , then helped Marguerite to alight . 
She lingered outside a moment , whilst he gave a few orders to one of his men . 
She skirted the house , and stepped on to the lawn , looking out dreamily into the silvery landscape . 
All else was quiet round her . 
Involuntarily she sighed at that moment she could really not have told why . 
She was suffering from unconquerable heartache . 
Deeply and achingly she was sorry for herself . 
Never had she felt so pitiably lonely , so bitterly in want of comfort and of sympathy . 
With another sigh she turned away from the river towards the house , vaguely wondering if , after such a night , she could ever find rest and sleep . 
Suddenly , before she reached the terrace , she heard a firm step upon the crisp gravel , and the next moment her husband's figure emerged out of the shadow . 
He too , had skirted the house , and was wandering along the lawn , towards the river . 
He apparently did not notice her , for , after a few moments pause , he presently turned back towards the house , and walked straight up to the terrace . 
The air is deliciously cool , she said , the moonlight peaceful and poetic , and the garden inviting . 
He turned once more to go . 
Begad ! you must pardon me there , Madame ! he protested coldly , my memory was always of the shortest . 
He looked her straight in the eyes , with that lazy non chalance which had become second nature to him . 
She returned his gaze for a moment , then her eyes softened , as she came up quite close to him , to the foot of the terrace steps . 
He stood for a moment , rigid and still , but for the clenching of his hand against the stone balustrade of the terrace . 
You desired my presence , Madame , he said frigidly . 
I take it that it was not with the view to indulging in tender reminiscences . 
His voice certainly was cold and uncompromising his attitude before her , stiff and unbending . 
She stretched out her hand to him . 
Nay , Sir Percy , why not ? the present is not so glorious but that I should not wish to dwell a little in the past . 
He bent his tall figure , and taking hold of the extreme tip of the fingers which she still held out to him , he kissed them ceremoniously . 
I' faith , Madame , he said , then you will pardon me , if my dull wits cannot accompany you there . 
Once again he attempted to go , once more her voice , sweet , childlike , almost tender , called him back . 
Is it possible that love can die ? she said with sudden , unreasoning vehemence . 
Methought that the passion which you once felt for me would outlast the span of human life . 
Is there nothing left of that love , Percy . 
With what object , I pray you , Madame ? he asked coldly . 
I do not understand you . 
Nay ! I spoke not of THAT past , Percy ! she said , while a tone of tenderness crept into her voice . 
Rather did I speak of a time when you loved me still ! and I. . 
The moon had sunk low down behind a bank of clouds . 
In the east a soft grey light was beginning to chase away the heavy mantle of the night . 
Twenty four hours after our marriage , Madame , the Marquis de St . 
Cyr and all his family perished on the guillotine , and the popular rumour reached me that it was the wife of Sir Percy Blakeney who helped to send them there . 
Nay ! I myself told you the truth of that odious tale . 
Not till after it had been recounted to me by strangers , with all its horrible details . 
Cyr went to the guillotine , I was straining every nerve , using every influence I possessed , to save him and his family . 
But my pride sealed my lips , when your love seemed to perish , as if under the knife of that same guillotine . 
Was it unnatural ? Her voice became choked with tears . 
She paused for a moment or two , trying to regain some sort of composure . 
She looked appealingly at him , almost as if he were her judge . 
The dim , grey light of early dawn seemed to make his tall form look taller and more rigid . 
The lazy , good natured face looked strangely altered . 
Marguerite , excited , as she was , could see that the eyes were no longer languid , the mouth no longer good humoured and inane . 
Marguerite Blakeney was , above all , a woman , with all a woman's fascinating foibles , all a woman's most lovable sins . 
Pride had kept him from her , and , woman like , she meant to win back that conquest which had been hers before . 
Suddenly it seemed to her that the only happiness life could every hold for her again would be in feeling that man's kiss once more upon her lips . 
Listen to the tale , Sir Percy , she said , and her voice was low , sweet , infinitely tender . 
Armand was all in all to me ! We had no parents , and brought one another up . 
He was my little father , and I , his tiny mother we loved one another so . 
Then one day do you mind me , Sir Percy ? the Marquis de St . 
But I only thought to bring that proud marquis to trouble and humiliation . 
He plotted with Austria against his own country . 
Chance gave me knowledge of this I spoke of it , but I did not know how could I guess ? they trapped and duped me . 
When I realised what I had done , it was too late . 
It is perhaps a little difficult , Madame , said Sir Percy , after a moment of silence between them , to go back over the past . 
I wished to test your love for me , and it did not bear the test . 
You used to tell me that you drew the very breath of life but for me , and for love of me . 
My heart overflowing with love and passion , I ASKED for no explanation I WAITED for one , not doubting only hoping . 
Had you spoken but one word , from you I would have accepted any explanation and believed it . 
But you left me without a word , beyond a bald confession of the actual horrible facts proudly you returned to your brother's house , and left me alone . 
not knowing , now , in whom to believe , since the shrine , which contained my one illusion , lay shattered to earth at my feet . 
She need not complain now that he was cold and impassive his very voice shook with an intensity of passion , which he was making superhuman efforts to keep in check . 
Aye ! the madness of my pride ! she said sadly . 
Hardly had I gone , already I had repented . 
But when I returned , I found you , oh , so altered ! wearing already that mask of somnolent indifference which you have never laid aside until . 
But he would not yield to the magic charm of this woman whom he had so deeply loved , and at whose hands his pride had suffered so bitterly . 
Nay , Madame , it is no mask , he said icily I swore to you . 
once , that my life was yours . 
For months now it has been your plaything . 
it has served its purpose . 
But now she knew that the very coldness was a mask . 
Sir Percy , she said impulsively , Heaven knows you have been at pains to make the task , which I had set to myself , difficult to accomplish . 
You spoke of my mood just now well ! we will call it that , if you will . 
I wished to speak to you . 
because I was in trouble . 
It is yours to command , Madame . 
How cold you are ! she sighed . 
Faith ! I can scarce believe that but a few months ago one tear in my eye had set you well nigh crazy . 
Now I come to you . 
with a half broken heart . 
rash , impetuous , as were all his actions , and written to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes , has fallen into the hands of a fanatic . 
to morrow , perhaps he will be arrested . 
oh ! it is horrible ! . 
she said , with a sudden wail of anguish , as all the events of the past night came rushing back to her mind , horrible ! . 
and you do not understand . 
and I have no one to whom I can turn . 
Tears now refused to be held back . 
All her trouble , her struggles , the awful uncertainty of Armand's fate overwhelmed her . 
She tottered , ready to fall , and leaning against the tone balustrade , she buried her face in her hands and sobbed bitterly . 
At first mention of Armand St . 
And so , he said with bitter sarcasm , the murderous dog of the revolution is turning upon the very hands that fed it ? . 
Begad , Madame , he added very gently , as Marguerite continued to sob hysterically , will you dry your tears ? . 
I never could bear to see a pretty woman cry , and I. . 
Can you do aught for Armand ? she said sweetly and simply . 
You have so much influence at court . 
I cannot ask him , Percy . 
Oh ! I wish I dared to tell you . 
he has put a price on my brother's head , which . 
She would have given worlds if she had felt the courage then to tell him everything . 
all she had done that night how she had suffered and how her hand had been forced . 
But she dared not give way to that impulse . 
not now , when she was just beginning to feel that he still loved her , when she hoped that she could win him back . 
She dared not make another confession to him . 
After all , he might not understand he might not sympathise with her struggles and temptation . 
His love still dormant might sleep the sleep of death . 
Perhaps he divined what was passing in her mind . 
His whole attitude was one of intense longing a veritable prayer for that confidence , which her foolish pride withheld from him . 
When she remained silent he sighed , and said with marked coldness Faith , Madame , since it distresses you , we will not speak of it . 
As for Armand , I pray you have no fear . 
I pledge you my word that he shall be safe . 
Now , have I your permission to go ? The hour is getting late , and . 
You will at least accept my gratitude ? she said , as she drew quite close to him , and speaking with real tenderness . 
He thought this was but a mood , a caprice , and he was too proud to lend himself to it once again . 
It is too soon , Madame ! he said quietly I have done nothing as yet . 
The hour is late , and you must be fatigued . 
Your women will be waiting for you upstairs . 
He stood aside to allow her to pass . 
She sighed , a quick sigh of disappointment . 
His pride and her beauty had been in direct conflict , and his pride had remained the conqueror . 
She stood looking at him for a moment or two longer . 
He was again as rigid , as impassive , as before . 
Pride had conquered , and he cared naught for her . 
The grey light of dawn was gradually yielding to the rosy light of the rising sun . 
Birds began to twitter Nature awakened , smiling in happy response to the warmth of this glorious October morning . 
Only between these two hearts there lay a strong , impassable barrier , built up of pride on both sides , which neither of them cared to be the first to demolish . 
He had bent his tall figure in a low ceremonious bow , as she finally , with another bitter little sigh , began to mount the terrace steps . 
She reached the tall glass doors which led into the house . 
Before entering , she paused once again to look at him , hoping against hope to see his arms stretched out to her , and to hear his voice calling her back . 
But he had not moved his massive figure looked the very personification of unbending pride , of fierce obstinacy . 
Pride had given way at last , obstinacy was gone the will was powerless . 
CHAPTER XVII FAREWELL When Marguerite reached her room , she found her maid terribly anxious about her . 
Your ladyship will be so tired , said the poor woman , whose own eyes were half closed with sleep . 
It is past five o'clock . 
Ah , yes , Louise , I daresay I shall be tired presently , said Marguerite , kindly but you are very tired now , so go to bed at once . 
I'll get into bed alone . 
Now , don't argue , Louise , but go to bed . 
Give me a wrap , and leave me alone . 
Louise was only too glad to obey . 
She took off her mistress's gorgeous ball dress , and wrapped her up in a soft billowy gown . 
Does your ladyship wish for anything else ? she asked , when that was done . 
Put out the lights as you go out . 
Good night , my lady . 
When the maid was gone , Marguerite drew aside the curtains and threw open the windows . 
The garden and the river beyond were flooded with rosy light . 
Far away to the east , the rays of the rising sun had changed the rose into vivid gold . 
It was strange that through all her troubles , all her anxiety for Armand , she was mostly conscious at the present moment of a keen and bitter heartache . 
How strange it all was ! She loved him still . 
A woman's heart is such a complex problem the owner thereof is often most incompetent to find the solution of this puzzle . 
Not at this moment at any rate perhaps her pride had sealed her mind against a better understanding of her own heart . 
But this she did know that she meant to capture that obstinate heart back again . 
That she would conquer once more . 
and then , that she would never lose him . 
Thus the most contradictory thoughts and emotions rushed madly through her mind . 
Nervously she jumped up and listened the house itself was as still as ever the footsteps had retreated . 
Through her wide open window the brilliant rays of the morning sun were flooding her room with light . 
She looked up at the clock it was half past six too early for any of the household to be already astir . 
She certainly must have dropped asleep , quite unconsciously . 
My business may keep me employed for about a week , so I shall not have the privilege of being present at your ladyship's water party on Wednesday . 
I remain your ladyship's most humble and most obedient servant , PERCY BLAKENEY . 
Vainly she tried to shake off an unaccustomed feeling of nervousness she was trembling from head to foot . 
A wild , unconquerable desire seized her to see her husband again , at once , if only he had not already started . 
With nervous , trembling fingers Marguerite undid the bolts one by one , bruising her hands , hurting her nails , for the locks were heavy and stiff . 
Her ears had not deceived her . 
A groom was standing close by holding a couple of horses one of these was Sultan , Sir Percy's favourite and swiftest horse , saddled ready for a journey . 
The next moment Sir Percy himself appeared round the further corner of the house and came quickly towards the horses . 
Marguerite went forward a few steps . 
He looked up and saw her . 
A slight frown appeared between his eyes . 
You are going ? she said quickly and feverishly . 
I have prayed your ladyship to offer my humble excuses to His Royal Highness . 
You are such a perfect hostess , I do not think I shall be missed . 
But surely you might have waited for your journey . 
until after our water party . 
she said , still speaking quickly and nervously . 
Surely this business is not so urgent . 
and you said nothing about it just now . 
My business , as I had the honour to tell you , Madame , is as unexpected as it is urgent . 
May I therefore crave your permission to go . 
Can I do aught for you in town ? . 
on my way back ? No. . 
But you will be back soon ? Very soon . 
Before the end of the week ? I cannot say . 
He was evidently trying to get away , whilst she was straining every nerve to keep him back for a moment or two . 
Percy , she said , will you not tell me why you go to day ? Surely I , as your wife , have the right to know . 
You have NOT been called away to the North . 
There were no letters , no couriers from there before we left for the opera last night , and nothing was waiting for you when we returned from the ball . 
You are NOT going to the North , I feel convinced . 
Nay , there is no mystery , Madame , he replied , with a slight tone of impatience . 
My business has to do with Armand . 
there ! Now , have I your leave to depart ? With Armand ? . 
But you will run no danger ? Danger ? I ? . 
Nay , Madame , your solicitude does me honour . 
As you say , I have some influence my intention is to exert it before it be too late . 
Will you allow me to thank you at least ? Nay , Madame , he said coldly , there is no need for that . 
My life is at your service , and I am already more than repaid . 
There ! I will not detain you . 
my thoughts go with you . 
How lovely she looked in this morning sunlight , with her ardent hair streaming around her shoulders . 
He bowed very low and kissed her hand she felt the burning kiss and her heart thrilled with joy and hope . 
You will come back ? she said tenderly . 
Very soon ! he replied , looking longingly into her blue eyes . 
she asked as her eyes , in response to his look , gave him an infinity of promise . 
I will always remember , Madame , that you have honoured me by commanding my services . 
The words were cold and formal , but they did not chill her this time . 
Her woman's heart had read his , beneath the impassive mask his pride still forced him to wear . 
He bowed to her again , then begged her leave to depart . 
She stood on one side whilst he jumped on to Sultan's back , then , as he galloped out of the gates , she waved him a final Adieu . 
A bend in the road soon hid him from view his confidential groom had some difficulty in keeping pace with him , for Sultan flew along in response to his master's excited mood . 
Marguerite , with a sigh that was almost a happy one , turned and went within . 
She went back to her room , for suddenly , like a tired child , she felt quite sleepy . 
Her heart seemed all at once to be in complete peace , and , though it still ached with undefined longing , a vague and delicious hope soothed it as with a balm . 
She felt no longer anxious about Armand . 
The man who had just ridden away , bent on helping her brother , inspired her with complete confidence in his strength and in his power . 
His passion would have overmastered him , and he would not let her see how much he still cared and how deeply he suffered . 
The more she thought of the events of the past night , the less fear had she of Chauvelin and his schemes . 
He had failed to discover the identity of the Scarlet Pimpernel , of that she felt sure . 
When Armand was safely over in England she would not allow him to go back to France . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE MYSTERIOUS DEVICE The day was well advanced when Marguerite woke , refreshed by her long sleep . 
Louise had brought her some fresh milk and a dish of fruit , and she partook of this frugal breakfast with hearty appetite . 
In answer to her eager inquiries , Louise brought back the news that the groom had come home with Sultan , having left Sir Percy in London . 
The groom thought that his master was about to get on board his schooner , which was lying off just below London Bridge . 
Sir Percy had ridden thus far , had then met Briggs , the skipper of the DAY DREAM , and had sent the groom back to Richmond with Sultan and the empty saddle . 
This news puzzled Marguerite more than ever . 
Where could Sir Percy be going just now in the DAY DREAM ? On Armand's behalf , he had said . 
Well ! Sir Percy had influential friends everywhere . 
Perhaps he was going to Greenwich , or . 
but Marguerite ceased to conjecture all would be explained anon he said that he would come back , and that he would remember . 
A long , idle day lay before Marguerite . 
She was expecting a visit of her old school fellow , little Suzanne de Tournay . 
With all the merry mischief at her command , she had tendered her request for Suzanne's company to the Comtesse in the Presence of the Prince of Wales last night . 
His Royal Highness had loudly applauded the notion , and declared that he would give himself the pleasure of calling on the two ladies in the course of the afternoon . 
The Comtesse had not dared to refuse , and then and there was entrapped into a promise to send little Suzanne to spend a long and happy day at Richmond with her friend . 
But Suzanne had not come yet , and Marguerite being dressed , prepared to go downstairs . 
She crossed the landing outside her own suite of apartments , and stood still for a moment at the head of the fine oak staircase , which led to the lower floor . 
On her left were her husband's apartments , a suite of rooms which she practically never entered . 
His own special and confidential valet , Frank , had charge of this room . 
No one was ever allowed to go inside . 
My lady had never cared to do so , and the other servants , had , of course , not dared to break this hard and fast rule . 
Marguerite had often , with that good natured contempt which she had recently adopted towards her husband , chaffed him about this secrecy which surrounded his private study . 
Marguerite thought of all this on this bright October morning as she glanced along the corridor . 
Frank was evidently busy with his master's rooms , for most of the doors stood open , that of the study amongst the others . 
A sudden burning , childish curiosity seized her to have a peep at Sir Percy's sanctum . 
This restriction , of course , did not apply to her , and Frank would , of course , not dare to oppose her . 
Still , she hoped that the valet would be busy in one of the other rooms , that she might have that one quick peep in secret , and unmolested . 
The door was ajar , and she could not see anything within . 
She pushed it open tentatively there was no sound Frank was evidently not there , and she walked boldly in . 
There was no sign here , at any rate , of hurried departure . 
Everything was in its place , not a scrap of paper littered the floor , not a cupboard or drawer was left open . 
The curtains were drawn aside , and through the open window the fresh morning air was streaming in . 
Facing the window , and well into the centre of the room , stood a ponderous business like desk , which looked as if it had seen much service . 
Marguerite knew very little about her , except that she had died abroad , ailing in body as well as in mind , which Percy was still a lad . 
Marguerite studied the portrait , for it interested her after that she turned and looked again at the ponderous desk . 
It was covered with a mass of papers , all neatly tied and docketed , which looked like accounts and receipts arrayed with perfect method . 
but surely such an object could have been gained at less sacrifice , and with far less trouble than constant incessant acting of an unnatural part . 
She looked round her quite aimlessly now she was horribly puzzled , and a nameless dread , before all this strange , unaccountable mystery , had begun to seize upon her . 
She felt cold and uncomfortable suddenly in this severe and dark room . 
What did Sir Percy want with those , she wondered . 
Her head began to ache , she turned away from this strange Blue Beard's chamber , which she had entered , and which she did not understand . 
She did not wish Frank to find her here , and with a fast look round , she once more turned to the door . 
She stooped to pick it up . 
It was a solid gold ring , with a flat shield , on which was engraved a small device . 
Marguerite turned it over in her fingers , and then studied the engraving on the shield . 
It represented a small star shaped flower , of a shape she had seen so distinctly twice before once at the opera , and once at Lord Grenville's ball . 
CHAPTER XIX THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL At what particular moment the strange doubt first crept into Marguerite's mind , she could not herself have said . 
Stupidly , senselessly , now , sitting beneath the shade of an overhanging sycamore , she was looking at the plain gold shield , with the star shaped little flower engraved upon it . 
Bah ! It was ridiculous ! she was dreaming ! her nerves were overwrought , and she saw signs and mysteries in the most trivial coincidences . 
She did not see anything that was going on around her , and was quite startled when a fresh young voice called to her across the garden . 
Indeed , sweet one , she said with a smile , it is delightful to have you all to myself , and for a nice whole long day . 
You won't be bored ? Oh ! bored ! Margot , how CAN you say such a wicked thing . 
Why ! when we were in the dear old convent together , we were always happy when we were allowed to be alone together . 
The two young girls had linked their arms in one another's and began wandering round the garden . 
How sadly you say it , CHERIE . 
Ah , well , I suppose now that you are a married woman you won't care to talk secrets with me any longer . 
And now you have one all important secret , eh , little one ? said Marguerite , merrily , which you are forthwith going to confide in me . 
nay , you need not blush , CHERIE . 
she added , as she saw Suzanne's pretty little face crimson with blushes . 
Faith , there's naught to be ashamed of ! He is a noble and true man , and one to be proud of as a lover , and . 
Indeed , CHERIE , I am not ashamed , rejoined Suzanne , softly and it makes me very , very proud to hear you speak so well of him . 
I think maman will consent , she added thoughtfully , and I shall be oh ! so happy but , of course , nothing is to be thought of until papa is safe . 
Suzanne's father ! the Comte de Tournay ! one of those whose life would be jeopardised if Chauvelin succeeded in establishing the identity of the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
Whilst little Suzanne unconscious of all save her own all important little secret , went prattling on . 
Marguerite's thoughts went back to the events of the past night . 
Armand's peril , Chauvelin's threat , his cruel Either or which she had accepted . 
Since then she had heard nothing from Chauvelin . 
She had concluded that he had failed , and yet , she had not felt anxious about Armand , because her husband had promised her that Armand would be safe . 
But now , suddenly , as Suzanne prattled merrily along , an awful horror came upon her for what she had done . 
Chauvelin had told her nothing , it was true but she remembered how sarcastic and evil he looked when she took final leave of him after the ball . 
You are not listening , CHERIE , said Suzanne , reproachfully , as she paused in her long , highly interesting narrative . 
Yes , yes , darling indeed I am , said Marguerite with an effort , forcing herself to smile . 
I love to hear you talking . 
and your happiness makes me so very glad . 
Have no fear , we will manage to propitiate maman . 
Sir Andrew Ffoulkes is a noble English gentleman he has money and position , the Comtesse will not refuse her consent . 
what is the latest news about your father ? Oh ! said Suzanne with mad glee , the best we could possibly hear . 
My Lord Hastings came to see maman early this morning . 
He said that all is now well with dear papa , and we may safely expect him here in England in less than four days . 
He has gone , CHERIE . 
added Suzanne excitedly , He was in London this morning he will be in Calais , perhaps , to morrow . 
where he will meet papa . 
She had expected it all along , though she had tried for the last half hour to delude herself and to cheat her fears . 
He had gone to Calais , had been in London this morning . 
whom she had betrayed last night to Chauvelin . 
Oh ! how could she have been so blind ? She understood it all now all at once . 
that part he played the mask he wore . 
in order to throw dust in everybody's eyes . 
Perhaps he had meant to tell her when they were first married and then the story of the Marquis de St . 
The mask of an inane fop had been a good one , and the part consummately well played . 
Had his astute mind guessed the secret , then ? Here lay the whole awful , horrible , amazing puzzle . 
But what is it , CHERIE ? said little Suzanne , now genuinely alarmed , for Marguerite's colour had become dull and ashen . 
Are you ill , Marguerite ? What is it ? Nothing , nothing , child , she murmured , as in a dream . 
the Scarlet Pimpernel had gone today . 
? Marguerite , CHERIE , what is it ? You frighten me . 
It is nothing , child , I tell you . 
I must be alone a minute and dear one . 
I may have to curtail our time together to day . 
I may have to go away you'll understand ? I understand that something has happened , CHERIE , and that you want to be alone . 
I won't be a hindrance to you . 
My maid , Lucile , has not yet gone . 
we will go back together . 
She threw her arms impulsively round Marguerite . 
She kissed Marguerite again and again , then walked sadly back across the lawn . 
Marguerite did not move , she remained there , thinking . 
wondering what was to be done . 
Just as little Suzanne was about to mount the terrace steps , a groom came running round the house towards his mistress . 
He carried a sealed letter in his hand . 
The groom stood respectfully beside his mistress , then he handed her the sealed letter . 
What is that ? asked Marguerite . 
Just come by runner , my lady . 
Marguerite took the letter mechanically , and turned it over in her trembling fingers . 
Who sent it ? she said . 
The runner said , my lady , replied the groom , that his orders were to deliver this , and that your ladyship would understand from whom it came . 
Marguerite tore open the envelope . 
Already her instinct told her what it contained , and her eyes only glanced at it mechanically . 
It was a letter by Armand St . 
Just to Sir Andrew Ffoulkes the letter which Chauvelin's spies had stolen at The Fisherman's Rest , and which Chauvelin had held as a rod over her to enforce her obedience . 
Now he had kept his word he had sent her back St . 
for he was on the track of the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
Marguerite's senses reeled , her very soul seemed to be leaving her body she tottered , and would have fallen but for Suzanne's arm round her waist . 
With superhuman effort she regained control over herself there was yet much to be done . 
Bring that runner here to me , she said to the servant , with much calm . 
He has not gone ? No , my lady . 
The groom went , and Marguerite turned to Suzanne . 
And you , child , run within . 
Tell Lucile to get ready . 
I fear that I must send you home , child . 
And stay , tell one of the maids to prepare a travelling dress and cloak for me . 
She kissed Marguerite tenderly and obeyed without a word the child was overawed by the terrible , nameless misery in her friend's face . 
A minute later the groom returned , followed by the runner who had brought the letter . 
Who gave you this packet ? asked Marguerite . 
A gentleman , my lady , replied the man , at The Rose and Thistle' inn opposite Charing Cross . 
He said you would understand . 
At The Rose and Thistle' ? What was he doing ? He was waiting for the coach , you ladyship , which he had ordered . 
The coach ? Yes , my lady . 
A special coach he had ordered . 
I understood from his man that he was posting straight to Dover . 
Then she turned to the groom My coach and the four swiftest horses in the stables , to be ready at once . 
The groom and runner both went quickly off to obey . 
Marguerite remained standing for a moment on the lawn quite alone . 
But this was not the moment for remorse and despair . 
She had done unwittingly an awful and terrible thing the very worst crime , in her eyes , that woman ever committed she saw it in all its horror . 
Her very blindness in not having guessed her husband's secret seemed now to her another deadly sin . 
But there was no time now to go over the past . 
By her own blindness she had sinned now she must repay , not by empty remorse , but by prompt and useful action . 
Percy had started for Calais , utterly unconscious of the fact that his most relentless enemy was on his heels . 
He had set sail early that morning from London Bridge . 
Provided he had a favourable wind , he would no doubt be in France within twenty four hours no doubt he had reckoned on the wind and chosen this route . 
Chauvelin , on the other hand , would post to Dover , charter a vessel there , and undoubtedly reach Calais much about the same time . 
Once in Calais , Percy would meet all those who were eagerly waiting for the noble and brave Scarlet Pimpernel , who had come to rescue them from horrible and unmerited death . 
There was also Armand , who had gone to meet de Tournay , secure in the knowledge that the Scarlet Pimpernel was watching over his safety . 
All these lives and that of her husband , lay in Marguerite's hands these she must save , if human pluck and ingenuity were equal to the task . 
Unfortunately , she could not do all this quite alone . 
Once in Calais she would not know where to find her husband , whilst Chauvelin , in stealing the papers at Dover , had obtained the whole itinerary . 
Above every thing , she wished to warn Percy . 
But if he were warned , he might form new plans , be more wary , more prudent . 
Unconsciously , he might fall into a cunning trap , but once warned he might yet succeed . 
Her whole body stiffened as with a great and firm resolution . 
This she meant to do , if God gave her wits and strength . 
The childlike sweet face had become hard and set , the curved mouth was closed tightly over her clenched teeth . 
She meant to do or die , with him and for his sake . 
A frown , which spoke of an iron will and unbending resolution , appeared between the two straight brows already her plans were formed . 
He would help her where she needed help her coach was ready . 
A change of raiment , and a farewell to little Suzanne , and she could be on her way . 
Without haste , but without hesitation , she walked quietly into the house . 
CHAPTER XX THE FRIEND Less than half an hour later , Marguerite , buried in thoughts , sat inside her coach , which was bearing her swiftly to London . 
She had taken an affectionate farewell of little Suzanne , and seen the child safely started with her maid , and in her own coach , back to town . 
She did not attempt to delude herself with any vain and futile hopes the safety of her brother Armand was to have been conditional on the imminent capture of the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
His death ! when with her very heart's blood , she would have defended him and given willingly her life for his . 
She had ordered her coach to drive her to the Crown inn once there , she told her coachman to give the horses food and rest . 
Then she ordered a chair , and had herself carried to the house in Pall Mall where Sir Andrew Ffoulkes lived . 
Among all Percy's friends who were enrolled under his daring banner , she felt that she would prefer to confide in Sir Andrew Ffoulkes . 
He had always been her friend , and now his love for little Suzanne had brought him closer to her still . 
Sir Andrew Ffoulkes , however , was at home , and his servant introduced her ladyship immediately . 
She went upstairs to the young man's comfortable bachelor's chambers , and was shown into a small , though luxuriously furnished , dining room . 
A moment or two later Sir Andrew himself appeared . 
You must take certain things I am going to tell you for granted . 
These will be of no importance . 
What is important is that your leader and comrade , the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
No matter how I know this , Sir Andrew , she continued quietly , thank God that I do , and that perhaps it is not too late to save him . 
Unfortunately , I cannot do this quite alone , and therefore have come to you for help . 
Lady Blakeney , said the young man , trying to recover himself , I. . 
Will you hear me first ? she interrupted . 
This is how the matter stands . 
The Scarlet Pimpernel Percy , my husband has gone on this errand himself to day . 
Chauvelin knows that the Scarlet Pimpernel and Percy Blakeney are one and the same person . 
He will follow him to Calais , and there will lay hands on him . 
You know as well as I do the fate that awaits him at the hands of the Revolutionary Government of France . 
No interference from England from King George himself would save him . 
Robespierre and his gang would see to it that the interference came too late . 
She had spoken quietly , dispassionately , and with firm , unbending resolution . 
Her purpose was to make that young man trust and help her , for she could do nothing without him . 
I do not understand , he repeated , trying to gain time , to think what was best to be done . 
Aye ! but I think you do , Sir Andrew . 
You must know that I am speaking the truth . 
Look these facts straight in the face . 
Percy has sailed for Calais , I presume for some lonely part of the coast , and Chauvelin is on his track . 
HE has posted for Dover , and will cross the Channel probably to night . 
What do you think will happen ? The young man was silent . 
Percy will arrive at his destination unconscious of being followed he will seek out de Tournay and the others among these is Armand St . 
Just my brother he will seek them out , one after another , probably , not knowing that the sharpest eyes in the world are watching his every movement . 
Still Sir Andrew was silent . 
You do not trust me , she said passionately . 
But I had no idea how COULD I have ? of the identity of the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
and my brother's safety was to be my prize if I succeeded . 
In helping Chauvelin to track the Scarlet Pimpernel ? She nodded . 
It is no use telling you how he forced my hand . 
Armand is more than a brother to me , and . 
how COULD I guess ? . 
But we waste time , Sir Andrew . 
in the name of God ! . 
my husband is in peril . 
your friend ! your comrade ! Help me to save him . 
Sir Andrew felt his position to be a very awkward one . 
Lady Blakeney , he said at last , God knows you have perplexed me , so that I do not know which way my duty lies . 
Tell me what you wish me to do . 
There are nineteen of us ready to lay down our lives for the Scarlet Pimpernel if he is in danger . 
There is no need for lives just now , my friend , she said drily my wits and four swift horses will serve the necessary purpose . 
But I must know where to find him . 
You must confess that the bandage which he put over my eyes was a very thick one . 
Is it small wonder that I did not see through it ? But last night , after I led him unwittingly into such deadly peril , it suddenly fell from my eyes . 
If you will not help me , Sir Andrew , I would still strive to save my husband . 
for me , a broken heart . 
You would be running the greatest possible risks to yourself , and your chances of finding your husband now where I to direct you ever so carefully are infinitely remote . 
Oh , I hope there are risks ! she murmured softly , I hope there are dangers , too ! I have so much to atone for . 
But I fear you are mistaken . 
Chauvelin's eyes are fixed upon you all , he will scarce notice me . 
Quick , Sir Andrew ! the coach is ready , and there is not a moment to be lost . 
I MUST get to him ! I MUST ! she repeated with almost savage energy , to warn him that that man is on his track . 
Can't you see can't you see , that I MUST get to him . 
even if it be too late to save him . 
to be by his side . 
Faith , Madame , you must command me . 
Gladly would I or any of my comrades lay down our lives for our husband . 
If you WILL go yourself . 
Nay , friend , do you not see that I would go mad if I let you go without me . 
She stretched out her hand to him . 
You WILL trust me ? I await your orders , he said simply . 
My coach is ready to take me to Dover . 
Do you follow me , as swiftly as horses will take you . 
We meet at nightfall at The Fisherman's Rest . 
Chauvelin would avoid it , as he is known there , and I think it would be the safest . 
I will gladly accept your escort to Calais . 
as you say , I might miss Sir Percy were you to direct me ever so carefully . 
We'll charter a schooner at Dover and cross over during the night . 
Disguised , if you will agree to it , as my lacquey , you will , I think , escape detection . 
I am entirely at your service , Madame , rejoined the young man earnestly . 
I trust to God that you will sight the DAY DREAM before we reach Calais . 
With Chauvelin at his heels , every step the Scarlet Pimpernel takes on French soil is fraught with danger . 
God grant it , Sir Andrew . 
We meet to night at Dover ! It will be a race between Chauvelin and me across the Channel to night and the prize the life of the Scarlet Pimpernel . 
He kissed her hand , and then escorted her to her chair . 
A quarter of an hour later she was back at the Crown inn , where her coach and horses were ready and waiting for her . 
The next moment they thundered along the London streets , and then straight on to the Dover road at maddening speed . 
She had no time for despair now . 
She was up and doing and had no leisure to think . 
With Sir Andrew Ffoulkes as her companion and ally , hope had once again revived in her heart . 
Marguerite's thoughts flew back to him , the mysterious hero , whom she had always unconsciously loved , when his identity was still unknown to her . 
She had had so many anxieties , so much excitement during the past few hours , that she allowed herself the luxury of nursing these few more hopeful , brighter thoughts . 
CHAPTER XXI SUSPENSE It was late into the night when she at last reached The Fisherman's Rest . 
The arrival of Lady Blakeney in the middle of the night caused a considerable flutter at The Fisherman's Rest . 
Sally jumped hastily out of bed , and Mr. Jellyband was at great pains how to make his important guest comfortable . 
Both of these good folk were far too well drilled in the manners appertaining to innkeepers , to exhibit the slightest surprise at Lady Blakeney's arrival , alone , at this extraordinary hour . 
No doubt they thought all the more , but Marguerite was far too absorbed in the importance the deadly earnestness of her journey , to stop and ponder over trifles of that sort . 
The coffee room the scene lately of the dastardly outrage on two English gentlemen was quite deserted . 
Mr. Jellyband hastily relit the lamp , rekindled a cheerful bit of fire in the great hearth , and then wheeled a comfortable chair by it , into which Marguerite gratefully sank . 
No ! not the whole night , replied Marguerite . 
At any rate , I shall not want any room but this , if I can have it to myself for an hour or two . 
I shall be crossing over at the first turn of the tide , said Marguerite , and in the first schooner I can get . 
But my coachman and men will stay the night , and probably several days longer , so I hope you will make them comfortable . 
Yes , my lady I'll look after them . 
Shall Sally bring your ladyship some supper ? Yes , please . 
Put something cold on the table , and as soon as Sir Andrew Ffoulkes comes , show him in here . 
Honest Jellyband's face now expressed distress in spite of himself . 
He had great regard for Sir Percy Blakeney , and did not like to see his lady running away with young Sir Andrew . 
Of course , it was no business of his , and Mr. Jellyband was no gossip . 
Sir Andrew may be late . 
Jellyband was only too willing that Sally should go to bed . 
He was beginning not to like these goings on at all . 
Still , Lady Blakeney would pay handsomely for the accommodation , and it certainly was no business of his . 
Then commenced a period of weary waiting for Marguerite . 
She knew that Sir Andrew who would have to provide himself with clothes befitting a lacquey could not possibly reach Dover for at least a couple of hours . 
He was a splendid horseman of course , and would make light in such an emergency of the seventy odd miles between London and Dover . 
She had seen nothing of Chauvelin on the road . 
Her coachman , whom she questioned , had not seen anyone answering the description his mistress gave him of the wizened figure of the little Frenchman . 
Evidently , therefore , he had been ahead of her all the time . 
She had not dared to question the people at the various inns , where they had stopped to change horses . 
She feared that Chauvelin had spies all along the route , who might overhear her questions , then outdistance her and warn her enemy of her approach . 
That thought gripped her at the heart as with an iron vice . 
Marguerite had need of all her energy , all her steadfastness of purpose , to keep up her courage through this weary midnight waiting . 
Everyone else in the house but herself must have been asleep . 
She had heard Sally go upstairs . 
For some time now , she had realised that the beautiful warm October's day , so happily begun , had turned into a rough and cold night . 
The wind was becoming boisterous , rattling the leaded windows and the massive doors of the old fashioned house it shook the trees outside and roared down the vast chimney . 
Marguerite wondered if the wind would be favourable for her journey . 
She had no fear of the storm , and would have braved worse risks sooner than delay the crossing by an hour . 
A sudden commotion outside roused her from her meditations . 
Faith ! Monsieur , my lacquey , she said , I am satisfied with your appearance ! Mr. Jellyband had followed Sir Andrew , looking strangely perplexed . 
The young gallant's disguise had confirmed his worst suspicions . 
Without a smile upon his jovial face , he drew the cork from the bottle of wine , set the chairs ready , and prepared to wait . 
She handed two or three gold pieces to Jellyband , who took them respectfully , and with becoming gratitude . 
Stay , Lady Blakeney , interposed Sir Andrew , as Jellyband was about to retire , I am afraid we shall require something more of my friend Jelly's hospitality . 
I am sorry to say we cannot cross over to night . 
Not cross over to night ? she repeated in amazement . 
But we must , Sir Andrew , we must ! There can be no question of cannot , and whatever it may cost , we must get a vessel to night . 
But the young man shook his head sadly . 
I am afraid it is not a question of cost , Lady Blakeney . 
There is a nasty storm blowing from France , the wind is dead against us , we cannot possibly sail until it has changed . 
She had not foreseen this . 
Nature herself was playing her a horrible , cruel trick . 
Percy was in danger , and she could not go to him , because the wind happened to blow from the coast of France . 
It is quite impossible to set sail to night , so every sailor assured me . 
No one , he added , looking significantly at Marguerite , NO ONE could possibly put out of Dover to night . 
Marguerite at once understood what he meant . 
NO ONE included Chauvelin as well as herself . 
She nodded pleasantly to Jellyband . 
Well , then , I must resign myself , she said to him . 
Have you a room for me ? Oh , yes , your ladyship . 
A nice , bright , airy room . 
I'll see to it at once . 
And there is another one for Sir Andrew both quite ready . 
That's brave now , mine honest Jelly , said Sir Andrew , gaily , and clapping his worth host vigorously on the back . 
You unlock both those rooms , and leave our candles here on the dresser . 
I vow you are dead with sleep , and her ladyship must have some supper before she retires . 
He had the satisfaction of seeing that he had partially succeeded . 
Jellyband's rubicund countenance brightened somewhat , at the mention of Sir Percy's name . 
I'll go and see to it at once , sir , he said with alacrity , and with less frigidity in his manner . 
Has her ladyship everything she wants for supper ? Everything , thanks , honest friend , and as I am famished and dead with fatigue , I pray you see to the rooms . 
Now tell me , she said eagerly , as soon as Jellyband had gone from the room , tell me all your news . 
There is nothing else much to tell you , Lady Blakeney , replied the young man . 
The storm makes it quite impossible for any vessel to put out of Dover this tide . 
But , what seems to you at first a terrible calamity is really a blessing in disguise . 
If we cannot cross over to France to night , Chauvelin is in the same quandary . 
He may have left before the storm broke out . 
But I fear me we cannot build our hopes upon the shipwreck of that cunning devil , and of all his murderous plans . 
Then Chauvelin is still in Dover ? Undoubtedly . 
Shall I go waylay him and run my sword through him ? That were indeed the quickest way out of the difficulty . 
Nay ! Sir Andrew , do not jest ! Alas ! I have often since last night caught myself wishing for that fiend's death . 
Sir Andrew had persuaded her to sit down to the table , to partake of some supper and to drink a little wine . 
This enforced rest of at least twelve hours , until the next tide , was sure to be terribly difficult to bear in the state of intense excitement in which she was . 
Obedient in these small matters like a child , Marguerite tried to eat and drink . 
Sir Andrew , with that profound sympathy born in all those who are in love , made her almost happy by talking to her about her husband . 
He recounted to her some of the daring escapes the brave Scarlet Pimpernel had contrived for the poor French fugitives , whom a relentless and bloody revolution was driving out of their country . 
Marguerite laughed heartily as Sir Andrew tried to describe Blakeney's appearance , whose gravest difficulty always consisted in his great height , which in France made disguise doubly difficult . 
Thus an hour wore on . 
There were many more to spend in enforced inactivity in Dover . 
Marguerite rose from the table with an impatient sigh . 
She looked forward with dread to the night in the bed upstairs , with terribly anxious thoughts to keep her company , and the howling of the storm to help chase sleep away . 
She wondered where Percy was now . 
The DAY DREAM was a strong , well built sea going yacht . 
Briggs was an expert skipper , and Sir Percy handled a schooner as well as any master mariner . 
There was no danger for them from the storm . 
It was long past midnight when at last Marguerite retired to rest . 
As she had feared , sleep sedulously avoided her eyes . 
Her thoughts were of the blackest during these long , weary hours , whilst that incessant storm raged which was keeping her away from Percy . 
The sound of the distant breakers made her heart ache with melancholy . 
She was in the mood when the sea has a saddening effect upon the nerves . 
CHAPTER XXII CALAIS The weariest nights , the longest days , sooner or later must perforce come to an end . 
Marguerite had spent over fifteen hours in such acute mental torture as well nigh drove her crazy . 
After a sleepless night , she rose early , wild with excitement , dying to start on her journey , terrified lest further obstacles lay in her way . 
She rose before anyone else in the house was astir , so frightened was she , lest she should miss the one golden opportunity of making a start . 
When she came downstairs , she found Sir Andrew Ffoulkes sitting in the coffee room . 
The storm was then at its fullest , and the tide was on the turn . 
If the wind did not abate or change , they would perforce have to wait another ten or twelve hours until the next tide , before a start could be made . 
And the storm had not abated , the wind had not changed , and the tide was rapidly drawing out . 
Marguerite felt the sickness of despair when she heard this melancholy news . 
Only the most firm resolution kept her from totally breaking down , and thus adding to the young man's anxiety , which evidently had become very keen . 
Though he tried to hide it , Marguerite could see that Sir Andrew was just as anxious as she was to reach his comrade and friend . 
This enforced inactivity was terrible to them both . 
How they spend that wearisome day at Dover , Marguerite could never afterwards say . 
The storm had abated just too late the tide was by then too far out to allow a vessel to put off to sea . 
The wind had changed , and was settling down to a comfortable north westerly breeze a veritable godsend for a speedy passage across to France . 
And there those two waited , wondering if the hour would ever come when they could finally make a start . 
The sunset was glorious after the storm , and Marguerite , as she watched the white cliffs of Dover gradually disappearing from view , felt more at peace and once more almost hopeful . 
Sir Andrew was full of kind attentions , and she felt how lucky she had been to have him by her side in this , her great trouble . 
Gradually the grey coast of France began to emerge from the fast gathering evening mists . 
One or two lights could be seen flickering , and the spires of several churches to rise out of the surrounding haze . 
Half an hour later Marguerite had landed upon French shore . 
She was back in that country where at this very moment men slaughtered their fellow creatures by the hundreds , and sent innocent women and children in thousands to the block . 
The men all wore red caps in various stages of cleanliness but all with the tricolor cockade pinned on the left side . 
Marguerite noticed with a shudder that , instead of the laughing , merry countenance habitual to her own countrymen , their faces now invariably wore a look of sly distrust . 
Calais , even in those days , was in constant business communication with England , and English merchants were often seen on this coast . 
It was well known that in view of the heavy duties in England , a vast deal of French wines and brandies were smuggled across . 
The streets were narrow , tortuous , and mostly evil smelling , with a mixture of stale fish and damp cellar odours . 
At last they reached their destination . 
Sir Andrew evidently knew the road , for he had walked unerringly in the dark , and had not asked his way from anyone . 
It was too dark then for Marguerite to notice the outside aspect of this house . 
The Chat Gris , as Sir Andrew had called it , was evidently a small wayside inn on the outskirts of Calais , and on the way to Gris Nez . 
It lay some little distance from the coast , for the sound of the sea seemed to come from afar . 
Sir Andrew knocked at the door with the knob of his cane , and from within Marguerite heard a sort of grunt and the muttering of a number of oaths . 
Sir Andrew knocked again , this time more peremptorily more oaths were heard , and then shuffling steps seemed to draw near the door . 
Presently this was thrown open , and Marguerite found herself on the threshold of the most dilapidated , most squalid room she had ever seen in all her life . 
In one corner of the room there was a huge hearth , over which hung a stock pot , with a not altogether unpalatable odour of hot soup emanating therefrom . 
On one side of the room , high up in the wall , there was a species of loft , before which hung a tattered blue and white checked curtain . 
A rickety set of steps led up to this loft . 
On the great bare walls , with their colourless paper , all stained with varied filth , there were chalked up at intervals in great bold characters , the words Liberte Egalite Fraternite . 
The whole of this sordid abode was dimly lighted by an evil smelling oil lamp , which hung from the rickety rafters of the ceiling . 
It all looked so horribly squalid , so dirty and uninviting , that Marguerite hardly dared to cross the threshold . 
Sir Andrew , however , had stepped unhesitatingly forward . 
English travellers , citoyen ! he said boldly , and speaking in French . 
He carried a short wooden pipe , from which the odour of rank tobacco emanated . 
She was sitting mumbling to herself , and from time to time stirring the brew in her stock pot . 
Hey , my friend ! said Sir Andrew at last , we should like some supper . 
The citoyenne there , he added , is concocting some delicious soup , I'll warrant , and my mistress has not tasted food for several hours . 
It took Brogard some few minutes to consider the question . 
A free citizen does not respond too readily to the wishes of those who happen to require something of him . 
SACRRRES ARISTOS ! he murmured , and once more spat upon the ground . 
Marguerite had watched all these preparations with absolute horror were it not for the earnestness of her purpose , she would incontinently have fled from this abode of dirt and evil smells . 
Faith ! our host and hostess are not cheerful people , said Sir Andrew , seeing the look of horror on Marguerite's face . 
I would I could offer you a more hearty and more appetising meal . 
but I think you will find the soup eatable and the wine good these people wallow in dirt , but live well as a rule . 
Nay ! I pray you , Sir Andrew , she said gently , be not anxious about me . 
My mind is scarce inclined to dwell on thoughts of supper . 
Brogard was slowly pursuing his gruesome preparations he had placed a couple of spoons , also two glasses on the table , both of which Sir Andrew took the precaution of wiping carefully . 
Brogard had also produced a bottle of wine and some bread , and Marguerite made an effort to draw her chair to the table and to make some pretence at eating . 
Sir Andrew , as befitting his ROLE of lacquey , stood behind her chair . 
The soup certainly was not bad it smelt and tasted good . 
Marguerite might have enjoyed it , but for the horrible surroundings . 
She broke the bread , however , and drank some of the wine . 
Nay , Sir Andrew , she said , I do not like to see you standing . 
You have need of food just as much as I have . 
This creature will only think that I am an eccentric Englishwoman eloping with her lacquey , if you'll sit down and partake of this semblance of supper beside me . 
Indeed , Brogard having placed what was strictly necessary upon the table , seemed not to trouble himself any further about his guests . 
Confound the brute ! said Sir Andrew , with native British wrath , as Brogard leant up against the table , smoking and looking down superciliously at these two SACRRRES ANGLAIS . 
I'd like to scrag the brute ! muttered Sir Andrew , savagely . 
He had taken Marguerite's advice and sat next to her at table , and they were both making noble efforts to deceive one another , by pretending to eat and drink . 
I pray you , said Marguerite , keep the creature in a good temper , so that he may answer the questions we must put to him . 
I'll do my best , but , begad ! I'd sooner scrag him than question him . 
Marguerite tried not to look at Brogard , lest she should betray before him the burning anxiety with which she waited for his reply . 
But a free born French citizen is never in any hurry to answer questions Brogard took his time , then he said very slowly , Tall Englishman ? To day ! Yes . 
Yes , to day , muttered Brogard , sullenly . 
SACRRE ARISTO ! he muttered , that tall Englishman ! Marguerite could scarce repress a scream . 
Oh ! the foolhardiness of it ! she sighed . 
Quick , Sir Andrew ! ask the man when he went . 
And he has gone , you say ? He went . 
Sir Andrew put his hand with a quick gesture of warning upon Marguerite's arm it came none too sone , for the next moment her wild , mad joy would have betrayed her . 
He was safe and well , was coming back here presently , she would see him in a few moments perhaps . 
Oh ! the wildness of her joy seemed almost more than she could bear . 
Here ! she said to Brogard , who seemed suddenly to have been transformed in her eyes into some heavenborn messenger of bliss . 
Heu ! he muttered , he ordered supper he will come back . 
SACRRE ANGLAIS ! he added , by way of protest against all this fuss for a mere Englishman . 
But where is he now ? Do you know ? she asked eagerly , placing her dainty white hand upon the dirty sleeve of his blue blouse . 
At what time did he go ? But Brogard had evidently had enough of these questionings . 
He did not think that it was fitting for a citizen who was the equal of anybody to be thus catechised by these SACRRES ARISTOS , even though they were rich English ones . 
It was distinctly more fitting to his newborn dignity to be as rude as possible it was a sure sign of servility to meekly reply to civil questions . 
I don't know , he said surlily . 
I have said enough , VOYONS , LES ARISTOS ! . 
CHAPTER XXIII HOPE Faith , Madame ! said Sir Andrew , seeing that Marguerite seemed desirous to call her surly host back again , I think we'd better leave him alone . 
We shall not get anything more out of him , and we might arouse his suspicions . 
One never knows what spies may be lurking around these God forsaken places . 
He also ran up the rickety steps that led to the attic , to assure himself that there were no spies of Chauvelin's about the place . 
Are we alone , Monsieur , my lacquey ? said Marguerite , gaily , as the young man once more sat down beside her . 
May we talk ? As cautiously as possible ! he entreated . 
Faith , man ! but you wear a glum face ! As for me , I could dance with joy ! Surely there is no longer any cause for fear . 
Sure ! there is naught to hinder us . 
Chauvelin and his gang have not yet arrived . 
Nay , madam ! that I fear we do not know . 
What do you mean ? He was at Dover at the same time that we were . 
Held up by the same storm , which kept us from starting . 
But I did not speak of it before , for I feared to alarm you I saw him on the beach not five minutes before we embarked . 
But I heard him then , bargaining for a vessel to take him swiftly to Calais and he must have set sail less than an hour after we did . 
Marguerite's face had quickly lost its look of joy . 
The terrible danger in which Percy stood , now that he was actually on French soil , became suddenly and horribly clear to her . 
Chauvelin was close upon his heels here in Calais , the astute diplomatist was all powerful a word from him and Percy could be tracked and arrested and . 
Chauvelin when he waylaid Lord Tony and Sir Andrew Ffoulkes in the coffee room of The Fisherman's Rest had obtained possession of all the plans of this latest expedition . 
This much Marguerite had fully understood from the first , and Sir Andrew Ffoulkes had confirmed her surmises . 
They would , of necessity , be at the appointed time and place , not knowing how grave was the danger which now awaited their brave rescuer . 
Blakeney , who as usual had planned and organized the whole expedition , would not allow any of his younger comrades to run the risk of almost certain capture . 
Hence his hurried note to them at Lord Grenville's ball Start myself to morrow alone . 
And now with his identity known to his most bitter enemy , his every step would be dogged , the moment he set foot in France . 
But there WAS that one hour . 
Chauvelin knows of this inn , from the papers he stole , said Sir Andrew , earnestly , and on landing will make straight for it . 
He has not landed yet , she said , we have an hour's start on him , and Percy will be here directly . 
We shall be mid Channel ere Chauvelin has realised that we have slipped through his fingers . 
She spoke excitedly and eagerly , wishing to infuse into her young friend some of that buoyant hope which still clung to her heart . 
But he shook his head sadly . 
Silent again , Sir Andrew ? she said with some impatience . 
What in the world do you mean ? I am forgetting nothing . 
What factor do you mean ? she added with more impatience . 
It stands six foot odd high , replied Sir Andrew , quietly , and hath name Percy Blakeney . 
I don't understand , she murmured . 
Do you think that Blakeney would leave Calais without having accomplished what he set out to do ? You mean . 
? There's the old Comte de Tournay . 
My brother ! she said with a heart broken sob of anguish . 
Heaven help me , but I fear I had forgotten . 
His precious , noble life , his danger he , the loved one , the brave hero , he alone dwelt in her mind . 
As for breaking his word , the very thought is preposterous ! There was silence for a moment or two . 
Marguerite had buried her face in her hands , and was letting the tears slowly trickle through her trembling fingers . 
The young man said nothing his heart ached for this beautiful woman in her awful grief . 
All along he had felt the terrible IMPASSE in which her own rash act had plunged them all . 
He knew his friend and leader so well , with his reckless daring , his mad bravery , his worship of his own word of honour . 
As you say , I should plead in vain . 
God grant him strength and ability , she added fervently and resolutely , to outwit his pursuers . 
I still believe that his safety depends upon his knowing that Chauvelin is on his track . 
He has wonderful resources at his command . 
As soon as he is aware of his danger he will exercise more caution his ingenuity is a veritable miracle . 
Then , what say you to a voyage of reconnaissance in the village whilst I wait here against his coming ! You might come across Percy's track and thus save valuable time . 
If you find him , tell him to beware ! his bitterest enemy is on his heels ! But this is such a villainous hole for you to wait in . 
Offer him some ready money , so that he should not fail to give me word the moment the tall Englishman returns . 
Sir Andrew obeyed her without further comment . 
Instinctively he felt that hers now was the stronger mind he was willing to give himself over to her guidance , to become the hand , whilst she was the directing hand . 
Hey ! friend Brogard ! said the man peremptorily , my lady friend would wish to rest here awhile . 
Could you give her the use of another room ? She would wish to be alone . 
He took some money out of his pocket , and allowed it to jingle significantly in his hand . 
Brogard had opened the door , and listened , with his usual surly apathy , to the young man's request . 
At the sight of the gold , however , his lazy attitude relaxed slightly he took his pipe from his mouth and shuffled into the room . 
He then pointed over his shoulder at the attic up in the wall . 
She can wait up there ! he said with a grunt . 
It's comfortable , and I have no other room . 
Nothing could be better , said Marguerite in English she at once realised the advantages such a position hidden from view would give her . 
Give him the money , Sir Andrew I shall be quite happy up there , and can see everything without being seen . 
She nodded to Brogard , who condescended to go up to the attic , and to shake up the straw that lay on the floor . 
May I entreat you , madam , to do nothing rash , said Sir Andrew , as Marguerite prepared in her turn to ascend the rickety flight of steps . 
Remember this place is infested with spies . 
Do not , I beg of you , reveal yourself to Sir Percy , unless you are absolutely certain that you are alone with him . 
Even as he spoke , he felt how unnecessary was this caution Marguerite was as calm , as clear headed as any man . 
There was no fear of her doing anything that was rash . 
Nay , she said with a slight attempt at cheerfulness , that I can faithfully promise you . 
I would not jeopardise my husband's life , nor yet his plans , by speaking to him before strangers . 
Have no fear , I will watch my opportunity , and serve him in the manner I think he needs it most . 
Brogard had come down the steps again , and Marguerite was ready to go up to her safe retreat . 
If I do not come across Blakeney in half an hour , I shall return , expecting to find him here . 
Yes , that will be best . 
We can afford to wait for half an hour . 
Chauvelin cannot possibly be here before that . 
God grant that either you or I may have seen Percy by then . 
Good luck to you , friend ! Have no fear for me . 
Lightly she mounted the rickety wooden steps that led to the attic . 
Brogard was taking no further heed of her . 
She could make herself comfortable there or not as she chose . 
Sir Andrew watched her until she had reached the curtains across , and the young man noted that she was singularly well placed there , for seeing and hearing , whilst remaining unobserved . 
He had paid Brogard well the surly old innkeeper would have no object in betraying her . 
Then Sir Andrew prepared to go . 
At the door he turned once again and looked up at the loft . 
Through the ragged curtains Marguerite's sweet face was peeping down at him , and the young man rejoiced to see that it looked serene , and even gently smiling . 
With a final nod of farewell to her , he walked out into the night . 
CHAPTER XXIV THE DEATH TRAP The next quarter of an hour went by swiftly and noiselessly . 
In the room downstairs , Brogard had for a while busied himself with clearing the table , and re arranging it for another guest . 
It was because she watched these preparations that Marguerite found the time slipping by more pleasantly . 
It was for Percy that this semblance of supper was being got ready . 
Marguerite could not help smiling to herself as she watched all these preparations , which Brogard accomplished to an accompaniment of muttered oaths . 
When the table was set such as it was Brogard surveyed it with evident satisfaction . 
Marguerite was left alone with her reflections . 
That thought was so heavenly , that Marguerite closed her eyes in order to shut out everything but that . 
And then what would happen ? She could not even remotely conjecture . 
Yes ! that was it ! two men were coming this way . 
Two strangers perhaps , to get a drink , or . 
She heard Brogard's shuffling footsteps , as he came out of the inner room , muttering his usual string of oaths . 
It was the sight of this French CURE , which seemed to freeze the very blood in Marguerite's veins . 
A plate of soup and a bottle of wine , said Chauvelin imperiously to Brogard , then clear out of here understand ? I want to be alone . 
Silently , and without any muttering this time , Brogard obeyed . 
The man who had entered with Chauvelin and whom Marguerite could not see , stood waiting close by the door . 
At a brusque sign from Chauvelin , Brogard had hurried back to the inner room , and the former now beckoned to the man who had accompanied him . 
In him Marguerite at once recognised Desgas , Chauvelin's secretary and confidential factotum , whom she had often seen in Paris , in days gone by . 
He crossed the room , and for a moment or two listened attentively at the Brogards' door . 
Not listening ? asked Chauvelin , curtly . 
For a moment Marguerite dreaded lest Chauvelin should order Desgas to search the place what would happen if she were to be discovered , she hardly dared to imagine . 
Fortunately , however , Chauvelin seemed more impatient to talk to his secretary than afraid of spies , for he called Desgas quickly back to his side . 
The English schooner ? he asked . 
She was lost sight of at sundown , citoyen , replied Desgas , but was then making west , towards Cap Gris Nez . 
All the roads which converge to this place have been patrolled night and day ever since and the beach and cliffs have been most rigorously searched and guarded . 
Does he know where this Pere Blanchard's' hut is ? No , citoyen , nobody seems to know of it by that name . 
There are any amount of fisherman's huts all along the course . 
Now about tonight ? interrupted Chauvelin , impatiently . 
The roads and the beach are patrolled as usual , citoyen , and Captain Jutley awaits further orders . 
Go back to him at once , then . 
You understand ? Perfectly , citoyen , replied Desgas . 
As soon as any of the men have sighted a stranger , two of them are to keep him in view . 
Is that clear ? Absolutely clear , citoyen . 
Go and see Jutley at once . 
See the reinforcements start off for the patrol duty , then ask the captain to let you have a half a dozen more men and bring them here with you . 
You can be back in ten minutes . 
Go Desgas saluted and went to the door . 
As Marguerite , sick with horror , listened to Chauvelin's directions to his underling , the whole of the plan for the capture of the Scarlet Pimpernel became appallingly clear to her . 
Chauvelin wished that the fugitives should be left in false security waiting in their hidden retreat until Percy joined them . 
Then the daring plotter was to be surrounded and caught red handed , in the very act of aiding and abetting royalists , who were traitors to the republic . 
Escape for him and them would be impossible . 
Desgas was about to go , but Chauvelin once more called him back . 
Marguerite vaguely wondered what further devilish plans he could have formed , in order to entrap one brave man , alone , against two score of others . 
She looked at him as he turned to speak to Desgas she could just see his face beneath the broad brimmed , CURES'S hat . 
I had forgotten , repeated Chauvelin , with a weird chuckle , as he rubbed his bony , talon like hands one against the other , with a gesture of fiendish satisfaction . 
The tall stranger may show fight . 
In any case no shooting , remember , except as a last resort . 
I want that tall stranger alive . 
He laughed , as Dante has told us that the devils laugh at the sight of the torture of the damned . 
He continued to laugh and chuckle to himself for awhile , rubbing his hands together in anticipation of his triumph . 
His plans were well laid , and he might well triumph ! Not a loophole was left , through which the bravest , the most cunning man might escape . 
The brave eagle , captured , and with noble wings clipped , was doomed to endure the gnawing of the rat . 
And she , his wife , who loved him , and who had brought him to this , could do nothing to help him . 
Nothing , save to hope for death by his side , and for one brief moment in which to tell him that her love whole , true and passionate was entirely his . 
He was evidently quite contented , and awaited evens with perfect calm he even seemed to enjoy Brogard's unsavoury fare . 
Marguerite wondered how so much hatred could lurk in one human being against another . 
Suddenly , as she watched Chauvelin , a sound caught her ear , which turned her very heart to stone . 
In the singer she had recognised her husband . 
Chauvelin , too , had heard it , for he darted a quick glance towards the door , then hurriedly took up his broad brimmed hat and clapped it over his head . 
She checked the impulse just in time . 
Chauvelin would stop her before she reached the door , and , moreover , she had no idea if he had any soldiers posted within his call . 
Her impetuous act might prove the death signal of the man she would have died to save . 
Long reign over us , God save the King ! sang the voice more lustily than ever . 
The next moment the door was thrown open and there was dead silence for a second or so . 
Marguerite could not see the door she held her breath , trying to imagine what was happening . 
In fact , at this moment , Sir Percy Blakeney , Bart . 
He stood for a moment in the middle of the room , whilst Marguerite , absolutely paralysed with horror , seemed unable even to breathe . 
Every moment she expected that Chauvelin would give a signal , that the place would fill with soldiers , that she would rush down and help Percy to sell his life dearly . 
I vow I never thought of meeting you here . 
Chauvelin , who had been in the very act of conveying soup to his mouth , fairly choked . 
His thin face became absolutely purple , and a violent fit of coughing saved this cunning representative of France from betraying the most boundless surprise he had ever experienced . 
Obviously he had not taken the precaution of having the inn surrounded with soldiers . 
Blakeney had evidently guessed that much , and no doubt his resourceful brain had already formed some plan by which he could turn this unexpected interview to account . 
Marguerite up in the loft had not moved . 
To sit still and watch these two men together was a terrible trial of fortitude . 
Marguerite had heard Chauvelin give the orders for the patrolling of all the roads . 
She knew that if Percy now left the Chat Gris in whatever direction he happened to go he could not go far without being sighted by some of Captain Jutley's men on patrol . 
On the other hand , if he stayed , then Desgas would have time to come back with the dozen men Chauvelin had specially ordered . 
The trap was closing in , and Marguerite could do nothing but watch and wonder . 
The two men looked such a strange contrast , and of the two it was Chauvelin who exhibited a slight touch of fear . 
Marguerite knew him well enough to guess what was passing in his mind . 
Evidently , however , the representative of the French Government had nothing to fear for the moment , at the hands of his powerful adversary . 
Blakeney , with his most inane laugh and pleasant good nature , was solemnly patting him on the back . 
I am so demmed sorry . 
he was saying cheerfully , so very sorry . 
I seem to have upset you . 
nasty , awkward thing , soup . 
Begad ! a friend of mine died once . 
with a spoonful of soup . 
And he smiled shyly , good humouredly , down at Chauvelin . 
Odd's life ! he continued , as soon as the latter had somewhat recovered himself , beastly hole this . 
ain't it now ? La ! you don't mind ? he added , apologetically , as he sat down on a chair close to the table and drew the soup tureen towards him . 
That fool Brogard seems to be asleep or something . 
There was a second plate on the table , and he calmly helped himself to soup , then poured himself out a glass of wine . 
For a moment Marguerite wondered what Chauvelin would do . 
You must excuse me h'm I thought you the other side of the Channel . 
Sudden surprise almost took my breath away . 
La ! said Sir Percy , with a good humoured grin , it did that quite , didn't it er M. er Chaubertin ? Pardon me Chauvelin . 
I beg pardon a thousand times . 
I never could cotton to foreign names . 
But the keen brain , which had planned and carried through so many daring plots , was too far seeing to take unnecessary risks . 
This place , after all , might be infested with spies the innkeeper might be in Chauvelin's pay . 
This he would not risk he meant to help the others , to get THEM safely away for he had pledged his word to them , and his word he WOULD keep . 
I didn't know , Blakeney was saying jovially , that you . 
The calm impudence of his antagonist had evidently thrown him off his usual balance . 
Do you think so ? Lud ! they alter a man so . 
begad ! I hope you don't mind my having made the remark ? . 
Demmed bad form making remarks . 
I hope you don't mind ? No , no , not at all hem ! I hope Lady Blakeney is well , said Chauvelin , hurriedly changing the topic of conversation . 
Quite well , thank you , he said at last , drily . 
There was a pause , during which Marguerite could watch these two antagonists who , evidently in their minds , were measuring themselves against one another . 
She had quite controlled her impulse now of rushing down hand disclosing herself to her husband . 
A man capable of acting a part , in the way he was doing at the present moment , did not need a woman's word to warn him to be cautious . 
Marguerite indulged in the luxury , dear to every tender woman's heart , of looking at the man she loved . 
Desgas should not be long another two or three minutes , and this impudent Englishman would be secure in the keeping of half a dozen of Captain Jutley's most trusted men . 
You are on your way to Paris , Sir Percy ? he asked carelessly . 
Odd's life , no , replied Blakeney , with a laugh . 
Only as far as Lille not Paris for me . 
beastly uncomfortable place Paris , just now . 
Chauvelin ! Not for an English gentleman like yourself , Sir Percy , rejoined Chauvelin , sarcastically , who takes no interest in the conflict that is raging there . 
La ! you see it's no business of mine , and our demmed government is all on your side of the business . 
Old Pitt daren't say 'Bo' to a goose . 
You are in a hurry , sir , he added , as Chauvelin once again took out his watch an appointment , perhaps . 
I pray you take no heed of me . 
He rose from the table and dragged a chair to the hearth . 
Once more Marguerite was terribly tempted to go to him , for time was getting on Desgas might be back at any moment with his men . 
Percy did not know that and . 
oh ! how horrible it all was and how helpless she felt . 
You are expecting a friend , maybe ? Aye a friend ! Not a lady I trust , Monsieur l'Abbe , laughed Blakeney surely the holy church does not allow ? . 
what ! But , I say , come by the fire . 
He kicked the fire with the heel of his boot , making the logs blaze in the old hearth . 
He seemed in no hurry to go , and apparently was quite unconscious of his immediate danger . 
Desgas had been gone nearly a quarter of an hour . 
In matters of taste the Church has never been backward . 
Eh ? But Chauvelin was not listening . 
His every faculty was now concentrated on that door through which presently Desgas would enter . 
Marguerite's thoughts , too , were centered there , for her ears had suddenly caught , through the stillness of the night , the sound of numerous and measured treads some distance away . 
It was Desgas and his men . 
He was standing by the table whereon the remnants of the supper , plates , glasses , spoons , salt and pepper pots were scattered pell mell . 
He now pulled himself together , trying to look unconcerned in the very midst of his anticipated triumph . 
Will you honour me , Monsieur l'Abbe ? He stood close to Chauvelin in his own careless , DEBONNAIRE way , holding out his snuff box to his arch enemy . 
Chauvelin , who , as he told Marguerite once , had seen a trick or two in his day , had never dreamed of this one . 
He took a pinch of snuff . 
When she realised what had happened , a curious mixture of joy and wonder filled her heart . 
It all was so neat , so ingenious . 
Blakeney was gone , obviously to try and join the fugitives at the Pere Blanchard's hut . 
For the moment , true , Chauvelin was helpless for the moment the daring Scarlet Pimpernel had not been caught by Desgas and his men . 
But all the roads and the beach were patrolled . 
Every place was watched , and every stranger kept in sight . 
He could not know of the orders which Chauvelin had given for his capture , and even now , perhaps . 
Chauvelin had partially recovered his sneezing had become less violent , and he had struggled to his feet . 
He managed to reach the door just as Desgas' knock was heard on the outside . 
Here , man ! through that door ! not five minutes ago . 
We saw nothing , citoyen ! The moon is not yet up , and . 
And you are just five minutes too late , my friend , said Chauvelin , with concentrated fury . 
You did what I ordered you to do , said Chauvelin , with impatience . 
I know that , but you were a precious long time about it . 
Fortunately , there's not much harm done , or it had fared ill with you , Citoyen Desgas . 
Desgas turned a little pale . 
There was so much rage and hatred in his superior's whole attitude . 
The tall stranger , citoyen he stammered . 
Was here , in this room , five minutes ago , having supper at that table . 
Damn his impudence ! For obvious reasons , I dared not tackle him alone . 
Brogard is too big a fool , and that cursed Englishman appears to have the strength of a bullock , and so he slipped away under your very nose . 
He cannot go far without being sighted , citoyen . 
Ah ? Captain Jutley sent forty men as reinforcements for the patrol duty twenty went down to the beach . 
He again assured me that the watch had been constant all day , and that no stranger could possibly get to the beach , or reach a boat , without being sighted . 
Do the men know their work ? They have had very clear orders , citoyen and I myself spoke to those who were about to start . 
They are to shadow as secretly as possible any stranger they may see , especially if he be tall , or stoop as if her would disguise his height . 
In no case to detain such a person , of course , said Chauvelin , eagerly . 
That impudent Scarlet Pimpernel would slip through clumsy fingers . 
We must let him get to the Pere Blanchard's hut now there surround and capture him . 
That is right , said Chauvelin , rubbing his hands , well pleased . 
I have further news for you , citoyen . 
What is it ? A tall Englishman had a long conversation about three quarters of an hour ago with a Jew , Reuben by name , who lives not ten paces from here . 
Yes and ? queried Chauvelin , impatiently . 
The conversation was all about a horse and cart , which the tall Englishman wished to hire , and which was to have been ready for him by eleven o'clock . 
It is past that now . 
Where does that Reuben live ? A few minutes' walk from this door . 
Send one of the men to find out if the stranger has driven off in Reuben's cart . 
Desgas went to give the necessary orders to one of the men . 
Not a word of this conversation between him and Chauvelin had escaped Marguerite , and every word they had spoken seemed to strike at her heart , with terrible hopelessness and dark foreboding . 
He could not now advance many steps , without spying eyes to track and denounce him . 
Her own helplessness struck her with the terrible sense of utter disappointment . 
The possibility of being the slightest use to her husband had become almost NIL , and her only hope rested in being allowed to share his fate , whatever it might ultimately be . 
For the moment , even her chance of ever seeing the man she loved again , had become a remote one . 
Desgas left Chauvelin moodily pacing up and down the room , whilst he himself waited outside for the return of the man whom he had sent in search of Reuben . 
Thus several minutes went by . 
Chauvelin was evidently devoured with impatience . 
About five minutes later , Desgas returned , followed by an elderly Jew , in a dirty , threadbare gaberdine , worn greasy across the shoulders . 
Chauvelin , who had all the Frenchman's prejudice against the despised race , motioned to the fellow to keep at a respectful distance . 
The group of the three men were standing just underneath the hanging oil lamp , and Marguerite had a clear view of them all . 
Is this the man ? asked Chauvelin . 
Ah ! said Chauvelin , turning away with disgust from the loathsome specimen of humanity before him . 
The citoyen tells me , said Chauvelin peremptorily to him , that you know something of my friend , the tall Englishman , whom I desire to meet . 
MORBLEU ! keep your distance , man , he added hurriedly , as the Jew took a quick and eager step forward . 
Did you speak to him ? He spoke to us , your Excellency . 
He wanted to know if he could hire a horse and cart to go down along the St . 
Martin road , to a place he wanted to reach to night . 
What did you say ? I did not say anything , said the Jew in an injured tone , Reuben Goldstein , that accursed traitor , that son of Belial . 
Cut that short , man , interrupted Chauvelin , roughly , and go on with your story . 
And , of course , the horse and cart were ready ? Well ! they were ready for him in a manner , so to speak , your Excellency . 
Reuben's nag was lame as usual she refused to budge at first . 
It was only after a time and with plenty of kicks , that she at last could be made to move , said the Jew with a malicious chuckle . 
Then they started ? Yes , they started about five minutes ago . 
I was disgusted with that stranger's folly . 
An Englishman too ! He ought to have known Reuben's nag was not fit to drive . 
Reuben is such a liar , and has such insinuating ways . 
If he was in a hurry , he would have had better value for his money by taking my cart . 
You have a horse and cart too , then ? asked Chauvelin , peremptorily . 
Aye ! that I have , your Excellency , and if your Excellency wants to drive . 
Do you happen to know which way my friend went in Reuben Goldstein's cart ? Thoughtfully the Jew rubbed his dirty chin . 
Marguerite's heart was beating well nigh to bursting . 
She had heard the peremptory question she looked anxiously at the Jew , but could not read his face beneath the shadow of his broad brimmed hat . 
Vaguely she felt somehow as if he held Percy's fate in his long dirty hands . 
Chauvelin shrugged his shoulders impatiently . 
How much is there there ? he asked . 
Twenty francs , your Excellency , replied the Jew , and I have been an honest man all my life . 
How many gold pieces are there in the palm of my hand ? he asked quietly . 
Evidently he had no desire to terrorize the man , but to conciliate him , for his own purposes , for his manner was pleasant and suave . 
The eyes of the Jew shot a quick , keen glance at the gold in his interlocutor's hand . 
At least five , I should say , your Excellency , he replied obsequiously . 
To a place called the Pere Blanchard's hut ? Your Honour has guessed ? said the Jew in astonishment . 
You know the place ? Which road leads to it ? The St . 
Martin Road , your Honour , then a footpath from there to the cliffs . 
You know the road ? repeated Chauvelin , roughly . 
Every stone , every blade of grass , your Honour , replied the Jew quietly . 
Chauvelin without another word threw the five pieces of gold one by one before the Jew , who knelt down , and on his hands and knees struggled to collect them . 
One rolled away , and he had some trouble to get it , for it had lodged underneath the dresser . 
Chauvelin quietly waited while the old man scrambled on the floor , to find the piece of gold . 
When the Jew was again on his feet , Chauvelin said , How soon can your horse and cart be ready ? They are ready now , your Honour . 
Where ? Not ten meters from this door . 
Will your Excellency deign to look . 
I don't want to see it . 
How far can you drive me in it ? As far as the Pere Blanchard's hut , your Honour , and further than Reuben's nag took your friend . 
How far is the nearest village from here ? On the road which the Englishman took , Miquelon is the nearest village , not two leagues from here . 
There he could get fresh conveyance , if he wanted to go further ? He could if he ever got so far . 
Can you ? Will your Excellency try ? said the Jew simply . 
But if we find my friend the tall Englishman , either on the road or at the Pere Blanchard's hut , there will be ten more gold pieces for you . 
Do you accept the bargain ? The Jew again thoughtfully rubbed his chin . 
He looked at the money in his hand , then at this stern interlocutor , and at Desgas , who had stood silently behind him all this while . 
After a moment's pause , he said deliberately , I accept . 
Go and wait outside then , said Chauvelin , and remember to stick to your bargain , or by Heaven , I will keep to mine . 
With a final , most abject and cringing bow , the old Jew shuffled out of the room . 
Chauvelin seemed pleased with his interview , for he rubbed his hands together , with that usual gesture of his , of malignant satisfaction . 
My coat and boots , he said to Desgas at last . 
Desgas went to the door , and apparently gave the necessary orders , for presently a soldier entered , carrying Chauvelin's coat , boots , and hat . 
He took off his soutane , beneath which he was wearing close fitting breeches and a cloth waistcoat , and began changing his attire . 
Martin Road , where I daresay you will soon overtake the Jew's cart with myself in it . 
There will be hot work presently , if I mistake not , in the Pere Blanchard's hut . 
We shall corner our game there , I'll warrant , for this impudent Scarlet Pimpernel has had the audacity or the stupidity , I hardly know which to adhere to his original plans . 
He has gone to meet de Tournay , St . 
Just and the other traitors , which for the moment , I thought , perhaps , he did not intend to do . 
When we find them , there will be a band of desperate men at bay . 
Some of our men will , I presume , be put HORS DE COMBAT . 
These royalists are good swordsmen , and the Englishman is devilish cunning , and looks very powerful . 
Still , we shall be five against one at least . 
You can follow the cart closely with your men , all along the St . 
Martin Road , through Miquelon . 
The Englishman is ahead of us , and not likely to look behind him . 
Whilst he gave these curt and concise orders , he had completed his change of attire . 
The priest's costume had been laid aside , and he was once more dressed in his usual dark , tight fitting clothes . 
At last he took up his hat . 
I shall have an interesting prisoner to deliver into your hands , he said with a chuckle , as with unwonted familiarity he took Desgas' arm , and led him towards the door . 
Choose your men well , friend Desgas . 
of the sort who would enjoy that type of sport eh ? We must see that Scarlet Pimpernel wither a bit what ? shrink and tremble , eh ? . 
He made an expressive gesture , whilst he laughed a low , evil laugh , which filled Marguerite's soul with sickening horror . 
Choose your men well , Citoyen Desgas , he said once more , as he led his secretary finally out of the room . 
CHAPTER XXVII ON THE TRACK Never for a moment did Marguerite Blakeney hesitate . 
The last sounds outside the Chat Gris had died away in the night . 
Inside the inn , everything was still . 
She waited a moment or two longer , then she quietly slipped down the broken stairs , wrapped her dark cloak closely round her and slipped out of the inn . 
Thus she started to do this , the last stage of her weary journey , alone , at night , and on foot . 
Nearly three leagues to Miquelon , and then on to the Pere Blanchard's hut , wherever that fatal spot might be , probably over rough roads she cared not . 
Everything around her was so still only from far , very far away , there came like a long soft moan , the sound of the distant sea . 
She even thought it best not to keep too near to the cart everything was so still , that the rumble of the wheels could not fail to be a safe guide . 
And ahead the rumble of the wheels , bearing an implacable enemy to his triumph . 
Marguerite wondered at what particular spot , on this lonely coast , Percy could be at this moment . 
Not very far surely , for he had had less than a quarter of an hour's start of Chauvelin . 
Chauvelin , on ahead , jolted and jostled in the Jew's vehicle , was nursing comfortable thoughts . 
He rubbed his hands together , with content , as he thought of the web which he had woven , and through which that ubiquitous and daring Englishman could not hope to escape . 
The capture of the audacious plotter would be the finest leaf in Citoyen Chauvelin's wreath of glory . 
Chauvelin had , in any case , fully made up his mind that all intervention should come too late . 
Never for a moment did the slightest remorse enter his heart , as to the terrible position in which he had placed the unfortunate wife , who had unconsciously betrayed her husband . 
As a matter of fact , Chauvelin had ceased even to think of her she had been a useful tool , that was all . 
The Jew's lean nag did little more than walk . 
She was going along at a slow jog trot , and her driver had to give her long and frequent halts . 
Are we a long way yet from Miquelon ? asked Chauvelin from time to time . 
Not very far , your Honour , was the uniform placid reply . 
We have not yet come across your friend and mine , lying in a heap in the roadway , was Chauvelin's sarcastic comment . 
Patience , noble Excellency , rejoined the son of Moses , they are ahead of us . 
I can see the imprint of the cart wheels , driven by that traitor , that son of the Amalekite . 
You are sure of the road ? As sure as I am of the presence of those ten gold pieces in the noble Excellency's pockets , which I trust will presently be mine . 
As soon as I have shaken hands with my friend the tall stranger , they will certainly be yours . 
Hark , what was that ? said the Jew suddenly . 
Through the stillness , which had been absolute , there could now be heard distinctly the sound of horses' hoofs on the muddy road . 
They are soldiers , he added in an awed whisper . 
Stop a moment , I want to hear , said Chauvelin . 
Marguerite had also heard the sound of galloping hoofs , coming towards the cart and towards herself . 
For some time she had been on the alert thinking that Desgas and his squad would soon overtake them , but these came from the opposite direction , presumably from Miquelon . 
The darkness lent her sufficient cover . 
She had perceived that the cart had stopped , and with utmost caution , treading noiselessly on the soft road , she crept a little nearer . 
Her heart was beating fast , she was trembling in every limb already she had guessed what news these mounted men would bring . 
Those had been Chauvelin's orders . 
She heard the quick words of challenge Liberte , Fraternite , Egalite ! then Chauvelin's quick query What news ? Two men on horseback had halted beside the vehicle . 
Marguerite could see them silhouetted against the midnight sky . 
You have seen the stranger ? asked Chauvelin , eagerly . 
No , citoyen , we have seen no tall stranger we came by the edge of the cliff . 
I dismounted and crept close to it . 
It was then empty , but in one corner of the hut , there was a charcoal fire , and a couple of stools were also in the hut . 
One was young , the other quite old . 
They were talking in a whisper , to one another , and I could not hear what they said . 
One was young , and the other quite old . 
The hut is very roughly built , and I caught snatches of their conversation . 
Yes ? Quick ! What did you hear ? The old man asked the young one if he were sure that was right place . 
Oh , yes , he replied , 'tis the place sure enough , and by the light of the charcoal fire he showed to his companion a paper , which he carried . 
Here is the plan , he said , which he gave me before I left London . 
We were to adhere strictly to that plan , unless I had contrary orders , and I have had none . 
Here is the road we followed , see . 
here we cut across the St . 
and here is the footpath which brought us to the edge of the cliff . 
I must have made a slight noise then , for the young man came to the door of the hut , and peered anxiously all round him . 
When he again joined his companion , they whispered so low , that I could no longer hear them . 
Well ? and ? asked Chauvelin , impatiently . 
You saw nothing of the tall stranger ? Nothing , citoyen . 
In any case they would not let the stranger go . 
Aye ! but I did not want the stranger hurt not just yet , murmured Chauvelin , savagely , but there , you've done your best . 
The Fates grant that I may not be too late . 
We met half a dozen men just now , who have been patrolling this road for several hours . 
Well ? They have seen no stranger either . 
Yet he is on ahead somewhere , in a cart or else . 
Here ! there is not a moment to lose . 
How far is that hut from here ? About a couple of leagues , citoyen . 
You can find it again ? at once ? without hesitation ? I have absolutely no doubt , citoyen . 
Let your comrade take both your horses back to Calais . 
Whilst Chauvelin spoke , Desgas and his men were fast approaching , and Marguerite could hear their footsteps within a hundred yards behind her now . 
She thought it unsafe to stay where she was , and unnecessary too , as she had heard enough . 
For now there was absolutely not the faintest hope . 
Within two short leagues of this spot , the fugitives were waiting for their brave deliverer . 
They would all be captured . 
All fell in noiselessly behind the cart , and slowly they all started down the dark road . 
To see her husband once again , to tell him how she had suffered , how much she had wronged , and how little understood him , had become now her only aim . 
The distant roar of the waves now made her shudder the occasional dismal cry of an owl , or a sea gull , filled her with unspeakable horror . 
Her knees shook under her , from sheer bodily fatigue . 
They had come to their destination . 
No doubt on the right , somewhere close ahead , was the footpath that led to the edge of the cliff and to the hut . 
These she wanted to hear what little chance she yet had , of being useful to Percy , consisted in hearing absolutely every word of his enemy's plans . 
The spot where all the party had halted must have lain some eight hundred meters from the coast the sound of the sea came only very faintly , as from a distance . 
Chauvelin and Desgas , followed by the soldiers , had turned off sharply to the right of the road , apparently on to the footpath , which led to the cliffs . 
The Jew had remained on the road , with his cart and nag . 
Fortunately as is usual in this part of France the footpath was bordered by a low rough hedge , beyond which was a dry ditch , filled with coarse grass . 
In this Marguerite managed to find shelter she was quite hidden from view , yet could contrive to get within three yards of where Chauvelin stood , giving orders to his men . 
Perhaps they do , he added drily . 
We listen , citoyen , said Desgas , and a soldier of the Republic never forgets an order . 
You , who have crept up to the hut , will try to peep inside . 
Do you understand ? We understand , citoyen . 
The man who is tall above the average is probably also strong above the average it will take four or five of you at least to overpower him . 
But remember that you must be as silent as the wolf is at night , when he prowls around the pens . 
You shall be implicitly obeyed , citoyen . 
Then get along as noiselessly as possible , and I will follow you . 
What about the Jew , citoyen ? asked Desgas , as silently like noiseless shadows , one by one the soldiers began to creep along the rough and narrow footpath . 
Ah , yes I had forgotten about the Jew , said Chauvelin , and , turning towards the Jew , he called him peremptorily . 
Benjamin Rosenbaum , so it please your Honour , he replied humbly . 
It does not please me to hear your voice , but it does please me to give you certain orders , which you will find it wise to obey . 
So it please your Honour . 
You shall stay here , do you hear ? with your horse and cart until our return . 
Do you understand ? But your Honour protested the Jew pitiably . 
There is no question of but' or of any argument , said Chauvelin , in a tone that made the timid old man tremble from heat to foot . 
Do you hear me ? But your Excellency . 
Clearly he was not the man to be left by himself on this lonely road . 
The man spoke truly he might unwittingly , in sheer terror , utter the shriek that might prove a warning to the wily Scarlet Pimpernel . 
Chauvelin reflected for a moment . 
Will your horse and cart be safe alone , here , do you think ? he asked roughly . 
I fancy , citoyen , here interposed Desgas , that they will be safer without that dirty , cowardly Jew than with him . 
There seems no doubt that , if he gets scared , he will either make a bolt of it , or shriek his head off . 
There was a pause again Desgas waiting for the decision of his chief , and the old Jew whining beside his nag . 
Well , you lazy , lumbering old coward , said Chauvelin at last , you had better shuffle along behind us . 
Here , Citoyen Desgas , tie this handkerchief tightly round the fellow's mouth . 
Chauvelin handed a scarf to Desgas , who solemnly began winding it round the Jew's mouth . 
Meekly Benjamin Rosenbaum allowed himself to be gagged he , evidently , preferred this uncomfortable state to that of being left alone , on the dark St . 
Then the three men fell in line . 
Quick ! said Chauvelin , impatiently , we have already wasted much valuable time . 
And the firm footsteps of Chauvelin and Desgas , the shuffling gait of the old Jew , soon died away along the footpath . 
Marguerite had not lost a single one of Chauvelin's words of command . 
Certainly the situation was desperate enough a tiny band of unsuspecting men , quietly awaiting the arrival of their rescuer , who was equally unconscious of the trap laid for them all . 
She vaguely wondered who the others were , who were also calmly waiting for the Scarlet Pimpernel , while death lurked behind every boulder of the cliffs . 
For the moment she could do nothing but follow the soldiers and Chauvelin . 
She feared to lose her way , or she would have rushed forward and found that wooden hut , and perhaps been in time to warn the fugitives and their brave deliverer yet . 
But she did not know if her shrieks would reach the ears of the doomed men . 
Her effort might be premature , and she would never be allowed to make another . 
Her mouth would be securely gagged , like that of the Jew , and she , a helpless prisoner in the hands of Chauvelin's men . 
Like a ghost she flitted noiselessly behind that hedge she had taken her shoes off , and her stockings were by now torn off her feet . 
Suddenly , those same keen instincts within her made her pause in her mad haste , and cower still further within the shadow of the hedge . 
Marguerite had guessed rather than recognized her . 
The sight of the schooner seemed to infuse into the poor , wearied woman the superhuman strength of despair . 
There was the edge of the cliff , and some way below was the hut , where presently , her husband would meet his death . 
She stumbled on behind the hedge in the low , thick grass of the ditch . 
She must have run on very fast , and had outdistanced Chauvelin and Desgas , for presently she reached the edge of the cliff , and heard their footsteps distinctly behind her . 
But only a very few yards away , and now the moonlight was full upon her , her figure must have been distinctly silhouetted against the silvery background of the sea . 
Only for a moment , though the next she had cowered , like some animal doubled up within itself . 
She peeped down the great rugged cliffs the descent would be easy enough , as they were not precipitous , and the great boulders afforded plenty of foothold . 
Her very heart seemed to stand still , the eagerness of joy was so great that it felt like an awful pain . 
On she pressed , forgetting the deadly foe on her track , running , stumbling , foot sore , half dazed , but still on . 
When , suddenly , a crevice , or stone , or slippery bit of rock , threw her violently to the ground . 
But now she realised that other steps , quicker than her own , were already close at her heels . 
The next instant a hand dragged at her skirt , and she was down on her knees again , whilst something was wound round her mouth to prevent her uttering a scream . 
She lay in the shadow of a great boulder Chauvelin could not see her features , but he passed his thin , white fingers over her face . 
A woman ! he whispered , by all the Saints in the calendar . 
We cannot let her loose , that's certain , he muttered to himself . 
Dear me ! dear me ! he whispered , with affected gallantry , this is indeed a charming surprise , and Marguerite felt her resistless hand raised to Chauvelin's thin , mocking lips . 
Her senses were leaving her half choked with the tight grip round her mouth , she had no strength to move or to utter the faintest sound . 
The excitement which all along had kept up her delicate body seemed at once to have subsided , and the feeling of blank despair to have completely paralyzed her brain and nerves . 
When she once more realised her state , she felt that she was placed with some degree of comfort upon a man's coat , with her back resting against a fragment of rock . 
The moon was hidden again behind some clouds , and the darkness seemed in comparison more intense . 
The sea was roaring some two hundred feet below her , and on looking all round she could no longer see any vestige of the tiny glimmer of red light . 
That the end of the journey had been reached , she gathered from the fact that she heard rapid questions and answers spoken in a whisper quite close to her . 
There are four men in there , citoyen they are sitting by the fire , and seem to be waiting quietly . 
The hour ? Nearly two o'clock . 
The tide ? Coming in quickly . 
The schooner ? Obviously an English one , lying some three kilometers out . 
But we cannot see her boat . 
Have the men taken cover ? Yes , citoyen . 
They will not blunder ? They will not stir until the tall Englishman comes , then they will surround and overpower the five men . 
And the lady ? Still dazed , I fancy . 
She's close beside you , citoyen . 
And the Jew ? He's gagged , and his legs strapped together . 
He cannot move or scream . 
Then have your gun ready , in case you want it . 
Get close to the hut and leave me to look after the lady . 
Before that handkerchief is removed from your pretty mouth , fair lady , whispered Chauvelin close to her ear , I think it right to give you one small word of warning . 
The purpose then , for which I have travelled all these miles , will remain unaccomplished . 
What is it ? Marguerite's hand seemed to convey to his , in response . 
To remain on this spot , without uttering a sound , until I give you leave to speak . 
Just , de Tournay , and their two friends , and shoot them here by my orders before your eyes . 
Marguerite had listened to her implacable enemy's speech with ever increasing terror . 
Nay , fair lady , he added urbanely , you can have no interest in anyone save in St . 
Just , and all you need do for his safety is to remain where you are , and to keep silent . 
My men have strict orders to spare him in every way . 
As for that enigmatic Scarlet Pimpernel , what is he to you ? Believe me , no warning from you could possibly save him . 
And now dear lady , let me remove this unpleasant coercion , which has been placed before your pretty mouth . 
You see I wish you to be perfectly free , in the choice which you are about to make . 
Chauvelin removed he handkerchief from her mouth . 
She certainly did not scream at that moment , she had no strength to do anything but barely to hold herself upright , and to force herself to think . 
Oh ! think ! think ! think ! of what she should do . 
More and more unreal did the whole situation seem . 
Oh ! that fiend in human shape , next to her , knew human female nature well . 
He had played upon her feelings as a skilful musician plays upon an instrument . 
He had gauged her very thoughts to a nicety . 
She could not give that signal for she was weak , and she was a woman . 
And little Suzanne's father , too ! he , and old man and the others ! oh ! it was all too , too horrible . 
Suddenly from somewhere , not very far away , a cheerful , strong voice was heard singing God save the King ! CHAPTER XXX THE SCHOONER Marguerite's aching heart stood still . 
She felt , more than she heard , the men on the watch preparing for the fight . 
Her senses told her that each , with sword in hand , was crouching , ready for the spring . 
Marguerite as she heard , felt that her very life was slipping away , as if when that voice drew nearer , when that singer became entrapped . 
She distinctly heard the click of Desgas' gun close to her . 
Something was thrown over her face she could not breathe , and perforce she was silent . 
The bold singer , too , had become silent , warned , no doubt , of his impending danger by Marguerite's frantic shrieks . 
The men had sprung to their feet , there was no need for further silence on their part the very cliffs echoed the poor , heart broken woman's screams . 
Some of the soldiers had rushed to the rough , wooden door of the hut , whilst one of them kept guard over Marguerite . 
The soldiers paused automatically at the door , like machines waiting for further orders . 
You have not let those four men go ? thundered Chauvelin , menacingly . 
You ordered us to wait , citoyen , until the tall Englishman arrived and joined the four men in the hut . 
No one came , said the sergeant sullenly . 
But I ordered you just now , when the woman screamed , to rush in and let no one escape . 
But , citoyen , the four men who were there before had been gone some time , I think . 
You think ? You ? . 
said Chauvelin , almost choking with fury , and you let them go . 
You ordered us to wait , citoyen , protested the sergeant , and to implicitly obey your commands on pain of death . 
Hark ! said Desgas suddenly . 
In the distance the sound of repeated firing was heard . 
One of you go into the hut and strike a light , he stammered at last . 
Stolidly the sergeant obeyed he went up to the charcoal fire and lit the small lantern he carried in his belt it was evident that the hut was quite empty . 
Which way did they go ? asked Chauvelin . 
I could not tell , citoyen , said the sergeant they went straight down the cliff first , then disappeared behind some boulders . 
Hush ! what was that ? All three men listened attentively . 
In the far , very far distance , could be heard faintly echoing and already dying away , the quick , sharp splash of half a dozen oars . 
Chauvelin took out his handkerchief and wiped the perspiration from his forehead . 
The schooner's boat ! was all he gasped . 
As if to confirm this last supposition , the dull boom of a gun was heard from out at sea . 
The schooner , citoyen , said Desgas , quietly she's off . 
It needed all Chauvelin's nerve and presence of mind not to give way to a useless and undignified access of rage . 
There was no doubt now , that once again , that accursed British head had completely outwitted him . 
How he had contrived to reach the hut , without being seen by one of the thirty soldiers who guarded the spot , was more than Chauvelin could conceive . 
But surely this was reality ! and the year of grace there were no fairies and hobgoblins about . 
He must have remained behind , and was even now hiding somewhere about the cliffs the patrols were still about , he would still be sighted , no doubt . 
Chauvelin felt hopeful once again . 
We were too late , citoyen , the soldier said , we reached the beach just before the moon was hidden by that bank of clouds . 
We fired after her , but of course , it was no good . 
She was making straight and quickly for the schooner . 
We saw her very clearly in the moonlight . 
Yes , said Chauvelin , with eager impatience , she had shoved off some time ago , you said , and the nearest creek is a mile further on . 
The boat must have shoved off some minutes before the woman began to scream . 
Bring the light in here ! he commanded eagerly , as he once more entered the hut . 
Pick that up , said Chauvelin to the sergeant , pointing to this white scrap , and bring it to me . 
It was a crumpled piece of paper , evidently forgotten there by the fugitives , in their hurry to get away . 
The sergeant , much awed by the citoyen's obvious rage and impatience , picked the paper up and handed it respectfully to Chauvelin . 
Read it , sergeant , said the latter curtly . 
It is almost illegible , citoyen . 
I ordered you to read it , repeated Chauvelin , viciously . 
The sergeant , by the light of his lantern , began deciphering the few hastily scrawled words . 
I cannot quite reach you , without risking your lives and endangering the success of your rescue . 
I shall be there as soon as possible they must wait for me at a safe distance out at sea , till they hear the usual signal . 
Do not delay and obey these instructions implicitly . 
Then there is the signature , citoyen , added the sergeant , as he handed the paper back to Chauvelin . 
But the latter had not waited an instant . 
One phrase of the momentous scrawl had caught his ear . 
I shall be at the creek which is in a direct line opposite the Chat Gris' near Calais that phrase might yet mean victory for him . 
I do , citoyen , said one of them , I was born in Calais , and know every stone of these cliffs . 
There is a creek in a direct line from the Chat Gris' ? There is , citoyen . 
The Englishman is hoping to reach that creek . 
He does NOT know every stone of these cliffs , he may go there by the longest way round , and in any case he will proceed cautiously for fear of the patrols . 
At any rate , there is a chance to get him yet . 
A thousand francs to each man who gets to that creek before that long legged Englishman . 
I know of a short cut across the cliffs , said the soldier , and with an enthusiastic shout , he rushed forward , followed closely by his comrades . 
Within a few minutes their running footsteps had died away in the distance . 
Chauvelin listened to them for a moment the promise of the reward was lending spurs to the soldiers of the Republic . 
The gleam of hate and anticipated triumph was once more apparent on his face . 
Close to him Desgas still stood mute and impassive , waiting for further orders , whilst two soldiers were kneeling beside the prostrate form of Marguerite . 
Chauvelin gave his secretary a vicious look . 
The soldiers were holding Marguerite pinioned to the ground , though , she , poor soul , was not making the faintest struggle . 
Obediently the soldiers rose to their feet . 
You'd better try and find that footpath again for me , and that broken down cart we left on the road . 
Then suddenly a bright idea seemed to strike him . 
Ah ! by the bye ! where is the Jew ? Close by here , citoyen , said Desgas I gagged him and tied his legs together as you commanded . 
From the immediate vicinity , a plaintive moan reached Chauvelin's ears . 
Bring the cowardly brute here , commanded Chauvelin . 
Yes , your Honour , stammered the poor wretch . 
I said , do you remember ? Y. . 
your Honour ! What was the bargain ? There was dead silence . 
Will you speak ? thundered Chauvelin , menacingly . 
He did try , poor wretch , but , obviously , he could not . 
There was no doubt , however , that he knew what to expect from the stern man before him . 
Since your terror seems to have paralyzed your tongue , said Chauvelin sarcastically , I must needs refresh your memory . 
It was agreed between us , that if we overtook my friend the tall stranger , before he reached this place , you were to have ten pieces of gold . 
A low moan escaped from the Jew's trembling lips . 
I did not , your Honour I swear it by Abraham . 
And by all the other patriarchs , I know . 
Unfortunately , they are still in Hades , I believe , according to your creed , and cannot help you much in your present trouble . 
Now , you did not fulful your share of the bargain , but I am ready to fulfil mine . 
Here , he added , turning to the soldiers , the buckle end of your two belts to this confounded Jew . 
I think I can rely on you , citoyen soldiers , laughed Chauvelin , maliciously , to give this old liar the best and soundest beating he has ever experienced . 
But don't kill him , he added drily . 
We will obey , citoyen , replied the soldiers as imperturbably as ever . 
The Jew and the woman can look after each other , he added roughly , until we can send somebody for them in the morning . 
They can't run away very far , in their present condition , and we cannot be troubled with them just now . 
Chauvelin had not given up all hope . 
His men , he knew , were spurred on by the hope of the reward . 
That enigmatic and audacious Scarlet Pimpernel , alone and with thirty men at his heels , could not reasonably be expected to escape a second time . 
If Marguerite had not taken up his time , if the soldiers had had a grain of intelligence , if . 
it was a long if , and Chauvelin stood for a moment quite still , and enrolled thirty odd people in one long , overwhelming anathema . 
The howls of the Jew behind him , undergoing his punishment sent a balm through his heart , overburdened as it was with revengeful malice . 
It eased his mind to think that some human being at least was , like himself , not altogether at peace with mankind . 
The howls of Benjamin Rosenbaum were fit to make the dead rise from their graves . 
They must have wakened all the gulls from sleep , and made them look down with great interest at the doings of the lords of the creation . 
That will do , commanded Chauvelin , as the Jew's moans became more feeble , and the poor wretch seemed to have fainted away , we don't want to kill him . 
Obediently the soldiers buckled on their belts , one of them viciously kicking the Jew to one side . 
Leave him there , said Chauvelin , and lead the way now quickly to the cart . 
He walked up to where Marguerite lay , and looked down into her face . 
She had evidently recovered consciousness , and was making feeble efforts to raise herself . 
He was smiling sarcastically , and his pale eyes peered down at her with a look of intense malice . 
With mock gallantry , he stooped and raised her icy cold hand to his lips , which sent a thrill of indescribable loathing through Marguerite's weary frame . 
But I go away , secure in the knowledge that I do not leave you unprotected . 
Our friend Benjamin here , though a trifle the worse for wear at the present moment , will prove a gallant defender of your fair person , I have no doubt . 
At dawn I will send an escort for you until then , I feel sure that you will find him devoted , though perhaps a trifle slow . 
Marguerite only had the strength to turn her head away . 
Her heart was broken with cruel anguish . 
I , myself , concluded Chauvelin , must now very reluctantly leave you . 
AU REVOIR , fair lady . 
We meet , I hope , soon in London . 
Shall I see you at the Prince of Wales garden party ? No ? Ah , well , AU REVOIR ! Remember me , I pray , to Sir Percy Blakeney . 
CHAPTER XXXI THE ESCAPE Marguerite listened half dazed as she was to the fast retreating , firm footsteps of the four men . 
How long she lay there she knew not . 
She had lost count of time dreamily she looked up at the moonlit sky , and listened to the monotonous roll of the waves . 
The invigorating scent of the sea was nectar to her wearied body , the immensity of the lonely cliffs was silent and dreamlike . 
Her brain only remained conscious of its ceaseless , its intolerable torture of uncertainty . 
All was so solitary , so silent , like unto dreamland . 
Even the last faint echo of the distant cart had long ago died away , afar . 
the strangest , undoubtedly , that these lonely cliffs of France had ever heard , broke the silent solemnity of the shore . 
Marguerite did not trust her ears . 
Half raising herself on her hands , she strained every sense to see or hear , to know the meaning of this very earthly sound . 
All was still again for the space of a few seconds the same silence once more fell upon the great and lonely vastness . 
Damn ! repeated those same British lips , emphatically . 
Zounds ! but I'm as weak as a rat ! In a moment Marguerite was on her feet . 
She looked round her eagerly at the tall cliffs , the lonely hut , the great stretch of rocky beach . 
Percy ! Percy ! she shrieked hysterically , tortured between doubt and hope , I am here ! Come to me ! Where are you ? Percy ! Percy ! . 
And still Marguerite did not understand . 
She did not realise for at least another ten seconds whence came that voice , so drawly , so dear , but alas ! with a strange accent of weakness and of suffering . 
There was no one within sight . 
Was she mad or dreaming ? . 
His back was against the pale moonlight , he was half crouching , trying vainly to raise himself with his arms tightly pinioned . 
Marguerite ran up to him , took his head in both her hands . 
and look straight into a pair of blue eyes , good natured , even a trifle amused shining out of the weird and distorted mask of the Jew . 
my husband ! she gasped , faint with the fulness of her joy . 
It was very obvious that he was exhausted from sheer physical pain , and when at last the rope gave way , he fell in a heap against the rock . 
Marguerite looked helplessly round her . 
Oh ! for a drop of water on this awful beach ! she cried in agony , seeing that he was ready to faint again . 
I am demmed if I can move . 
When he had drunk some brandy , he forced Marguerite to do likewise . 
La ! that's better now ! Eh ! little woman ? he said , with a sigh of satisfaction . 
Heigh ho ! but this is a queer rig up for Sir Percy Blakeney , Bart . 
, to be found in by his lady , and no mistake . 
Begad ! he added , passing his hand over his chin , I haven't been shaved for nearly twenty hours I must look a disgusting object . 
And laughingly he took off the disfiguring wig and curls , and stretched out his long limbs , which were cramped from many hours' stooping . 
Then he bent forward and looked long and searchingly into his wife's blue eyes . 
Percy , she whispered , while a deep blush suffused her delicate cheeks and neck , if you only knew . 
I do know , dear . 
everything , he said with infinite gentleness . 
she whispered , all the time . 
Yes ! he replied tenderly , I knew . 
They were sitting side by side , leaning up against a rock , and he had rested his aching head on her shoulder . 
She certainly now deserved the name of the happiest woman in Europe . 
It is a case of the blind leading the lame , sweetheart , is it not ? he said with his good natured smile of old . 
Odd's life ! but I do not know which are the more sore , my shoulders or your little feet . 
He bent forward to kiss them , for they peeped out through her torn stockings , and bore pathetic witness to her endurance and devotion . 
But how ? she gasped , I do not understand . 
I had to get to Armand and the others somehow , and all the roads were patrolled , and every one on the look out for your humble servant . 
I knew that when I slipped through Chauvelin's fingers at the Chat Gris , that he would lie in wait for me here , whichever way I took . 
I wanted to keep an eye on him and his doings , and a British head is as good as a French one any day . 
Dressed as the dirty old Jew , he said gaily , I knew I should not be recognized . 
I had met Reuben Goldstein in Calais earlier in the evening . 
For a few gold pieces he supplied me with this rig out , and undertook to bury himself out of sight of everybody , whilst he lent me his cart and nag . 
But if Chauvelin had discovered you , she gasped excitedly , your disguise was good . 
but he is so sharp . 
Odd's fish ! he rejoined quietly , then certainly the game would have been up . 
I could but take the risk . 
I know human nature pretty well by now , he added , with a note of sadness in his cheery , young voice , and I know these Frenchmen out and out . 
Yes ! and then ? she asked eagerly . 
I reckoned on the blind obedience of the soldiers . 
Chauvelin had ordered them on pain of death not to stir until the tall Englishman came . 
Desgas had thrown me down in a heap quite close to the hut the soldiers took no notice of the Jew , who had driven Citoyen Chauvelin to this spot . 
They obeyed implicitly , fortunately for them and for me . 
The soldiers who saw them were equally obedient to Chauvelin's orders . 
They did not stir ! I waited for nearly half an hour when I knew that the fugitives were safe I gave the signal , which caused so much stir . 
And that was the whole story . 
It seemed so simple ! and Marguerite could be marvel at the wonderful ingenuity , the boundless pluck and audacity which had evolved and helped to carry out this daring plan . 
But those brutes struck you ! she gasped in horror , at the bare recollection of the fearful indignity . 
Well ! that could not be helped , he said gently , whilst my little wife's fate was so uncertain , I had to remain here by her side . 
What's that ? she whispered in horror and alarm . 
Oh ! nothing , m'dear , he muttered with a pleasant laugh , only a trifle you happened to have forgotten . 
Sir Andrew ! she gasped . 
Indeed , she had wholly forgotten the devoted friend and companion , who had trusted and stood by her during all these hours of anxiety and suffering . 
She remembered him how , tardily and with a pang of remorse . 
Aye ! you had forgotten him , hadn't you , m'dear ? said Sir Percy merrily . 
Fortunately , I met him , not far from the Chat Gris . 
before I had that interesting supper party , with my friend Chauvelin . 
See , here he comes . 
He was not in the way when I did not want him , and now he arrives in the nick of time . 
Ah ! he will make pretty little Suzanne a most admirable and methodical husband . 
But already Blakeney had struggled to his feet . 
Here I am , friend , he said with his funny , inane laugh , all alive ! though I do look a begad scarecrow in these demmed things . 
Zooks ! ejaculated Sir Andrew in boundless astonishment as he recognized his leader , of all the . 
The young man had seen Marguerite , and happily checked the forcible language that rose to his lips , at sight of the exquisite Sir Percy in this weird and dirty garb . 
Yes ! said Blakeney , calmly , of all the . 
Odd's fish ! I'll bear it , said Sir Andrew with a merry laugh , seeing that you are alive to give it . 
Marguerite was so happy , she could have stayed here for ever , hearing his voice , asking a hundred questions . 
But at mention of Chauvelin's name she started in quick alarm , afraid for the dear life she would have died to save . 
But how can we get back ? she gasped the roads are full of soldiers between here and Calais , and . 
We are not going back to Calais , sweetheart , he said , but just the other side of Gris Nez , not half a league from here . 
The boat of the DAY DREAM will meet us there . 
The boat of the DAY DREAM ? Yes ! he said , with a merry laugh another little trick of mine . 
He had my orders to go out further to sea , and then towards the west . 
When well out of sight of Calais , he will send the galley to a little creek he and I know of , just beyond Gris Nez . 
The other side of Gris Nez ? But I. . 
I cannot walk , Percy , she moaned helplessly as , trying to struggle to her tired feet , she found herself unable even to stand . 
I will carry you , dear , he said simply the blind leading the lame , you know . 
Sir Andrew was ready , too , to help with the precious burden , but Sir Percy would not entrust his beloved to any arms but his own . 
When you and she are both safely on board the DAY DREAM , he said to his young comrade , and I feel that Mlle . 
Suzanne's eyes will not greet me in England with reproachful looks , then it will be my turn to rest . 
And his arms , still vigorous in spite of fatigue and suffering , closed round Marguerite's poor , weary body , and lifted her as gently as if she had been a feather . 
It was a weary tramp , half a league along the stony side of the cliffs , but never for a moment did his courage give way or his muscles yield to fatigue . 
On he tramped , with firm footstep , his vigorous arms encircling the precious burden , and . 
The many hued light of dawn was breaking in the east , when at last they reached the creek beyond Gris Nez . 
The galley lay in wait in answer to a signal from Sir Percy , she drew near , and two sturdy British sailors had the honour of carrying my lady into the boat . 
Half an hour later , they were on board the DAY DREAM . 
The rest is silence ! silence and joy for those who had endured so much suffering , yet found at last a great and lasting happiness . 
But it is on record that at the brilliant wedding of Sir Andrew Ffoulkes , Bart . 
