It was perfectly well understood . 
Even Peabody , who pictured himself and Miss Forbes in the back of the car , with her brother and Winthrop in front , condescended to approve . 
It was necessary to invite Peabody because it was his great good fortune to be engaged to Miss Forbes . 
Her brother Sam had been invited , not only because he could act as chaperon for his sister , but because since they were at St . 
Paul's , Winthrop and he , either as participants or spectators , had never missed going together to the Yale Harvard game . 
And Beatrice Forbes herself had been invited because she was herself . 
When at nine o'clock on the morning of the game , Winthrop stopped the car in front of her door , he was in love with all the world . 
It was true she was engaged to be married , and not to him . 
But she was not yet married . 
Some rolled and puffed like tugboats in a heavy seaway , others glided by noiseless and proud as private yachts . 
But each flew the colors of blue or crimson . 
Winthrop's car , because her brother had gone to one college , and he had played right end for the other , was draped impartially . 
Winthrop grinned in embarrassment , and waved his hand . 
A bicycle cop , and Fred , the chauffeur , were equally impressed . 
Was they the Harvoids , sir ? asked Fred . 
They was , said Winthrop . 
Her brother Sam came down the steps carrying sweaters and steamer rugs . 
But he wore no holiday countenance . 
What do you think ? he demanded indignantly . 
Ernest Peabody's inside making trouble . 
His sister has a Pullman on one of the special trains , and he wants Beatrice to go with her . 
In spite of his furs , the young man in the car turned quite cold . 
Not with us ? he gasped . 
Miss Forbes appeared at the house door , followed by Ernest Peabody . 
He wore an expression of disturbed dignity she one of distressed amusement . 
That she also wore her automobile coat caused the heart of Winthrop to leap hopefully . 
Winthrop , said Peabody , I am in rather an embarrassing position . 
My sister , Mrs. Taylor Holbrooke he spoke the name as though he were announcing it at the door of a drawing room desires Miss Forbes to go with her . 
She feels accidents are apt to occur with motor cars and there are no other ladies in your party and the crowds Winthrop carefully avoided looking at Miss Forbes . 
I should be very sorry , he murmured . 
Ernest ! said Miss Forbes , I explained it was impossible for me to go with your sister . 
We would be extremely rude to Mr. Winthrop . 
How do you wish us to sit ? she asked . 
She mounted to the rear seat , and made room opposite her for Peabody . 
Winthrop bent hastily over the oil valves . 
He read the speedometer , which was , as usual , out of order , with fascinated interest . 
Please ! I will bid you good by , said Peabody I have only just time to catch our train . 
Miss Forbes rose and moved to the door of the car . 
I had better not go with any one , she said in a low voice . 
You will go with me , commanded her brother . 
Thank you , no , replied Peabody . 
I have promised my sister . 
All right , then , exclaimed Sam briskly , see you at the game . 
Let her out , Billy . 
With a troubled countenance Winthrop bent forward and clasped the clutch . 
Better come , Peabody , he said . 
I thank you , no , repeated Peabody . 
I must go with my sister . 
As the car glided forward Brother Sam sighed heavily . 
My ! but he's got a mean disposition , he said . 
He has quite spoiled MY day . 
He chuckled wickedly , but Winthrop pretended not to hear , and his sister maintained an expression of utter dejection . 
But before the wheels had ceased to complain , Winthrop and Fred were out of their fur coats , down on their knees , and jacking up the axle . 
On an expedition of this sort , said Brother Sam , whatever happens , take it as a joke . 
Fortunately , he explained , I don't understand fixing inner tubes , so I will get out and smoke . 
I have noticed that when a car breaks down , there is always one man who paces up and down the road and smokes . 
His hope is to fool passing cars into thinking that the people in his car stopped to admire the view . 
Well , said Sam crossly , they can't arrest US for speeding . 
Whatever happens , said his sister , take it as a joke . 
Two miles outside of Stamford , Brother Sam burst into open mutiny . 
Every car in the United States has passed us , he declared . 
We won't get there , at this rate , till the end of the first half . 
Hit her up , can't you , Billy ? She seems to have an illness , said Winthrop unhappily . 
I think I'd save time if I stopped now and fixed her . 
Shamefacedly Fred and he hid themselves under the body of the car , and a sound of hammering and stentorian breathing followed . 
Of them all that was visible was four feet beating a tattoo on the road . 
Miss Forbes got out Winthrop's camera , and took a snap shot of the scene . 
I will call it , she said , The Idle Rich . 
Brother Sam gazed morosely in the direction of New Haven . 
They had halted within fifty yards of the railroad tracks , and as each special train , loaded with happy enthusiasts , raced past them he groaned . 
The only one of us that showed any common sense was Ernest , he declared , and you turned him down . 
I am going to take a trolley to Stamford , and the first train to New Haven . 
You are not , said his sister I will not desert Mr. Winthrop , and you cannot desert me . 
Brother Sam sighed , and seated himself on a rock . 
That being so , said Winthrop , while we are waiting for the car , we had better get a quick lunch now , and then push on . 
Push , exclaimed Brother Sam darkly , is what we are likely to do . 
Twenty minutes later , while they still were at work , there approached from Bridgeport a young man in a buggy . 
When he saw the mass of college colors on the Scarlet Car , he pulled his horse down to a walk , and as he passed raised his hat . 
At the end of the first half , he said , the score was a tie . 
Don't mention it , said Brother Sam . 
Now , he cried , we've got to turn back , and make for New York . 
If we start quick , we may get there ahead of the last car to leave New Haven . 
I am going to New Haven , and in this car , declared his sister . 
I must go to meet Ernest . 
If Ernest has as much sense as he showed this morning , returned her affectionate brother , Ernest will go to his Pullman and stay there . 
As I told you , the only sure way to get anywhere is by railroad train . 
She felt the elation of great speed , of imminent danger . 
Her blood tingled with the air from the wind swept harbor , with the rush of the great engines , as by a handbreadth they plunged past her . 
And each time for greater confidence she glanced up into his face . 
She found in his face much comfort . 
And in the fact that for the moment her safety lay in his hands , a sense of pleasure . 
That this was her feeling puzzled and disturbed her , for to Ernest Peabody it seemed , in some way , disloyal . 
And yet there it was . 
Of a certainty , there was the secret pleasure in the thought that if they escaped unhurt from the trap in which they found themselves , it would be due to him . 
But in her heart she knew it would not be the same . 
Those lights coming up suddenly make it hard to see , he said . 
Hard to breathe , snorted Sam since that first car missed us , I haven't drawn an honest breath . 
I held on so tight that I squeezed the hair out of the cushions . 
Brother Sam reported this state of affairs to his companions . 
As I have always told you , the only way to travel independently is in a touring car . 
The night was grandly beautiful . 
The post road was again empty , and the car moved as steadily as a watch . 
Just because it knows we don't care now when we get there , said Brother Sam , you couldn't make it break down with an axe . 
Winthrop doubted if he knew the State line of New York . 
It is where the advertisements for Besse Baker's twenty seven stores cease , said Sam drowsily , and the billposters of Ethel Barrymore begin . 
The silence had lasted so long that it was as eloquent as words . 
The young man turned his eyes timorously , and sought those of the girl . 
What he felt was so strong in him that it seemed incredible she should be ignorant of it . 
His eyes searched the gray veil . 
In his voice there was both challenge and pleading . 
Shall be together , he quoted , breathe and ride . 
So , one day more am I deified who knows but the world may end to night ? The moonlight showed the girl's eyes shining through the veil , and regarding him steadily . 
If you don't stop this car quick , she said , the world WILL end for all of us . 
He shot a look ahead , and so suddenly threw on the brake that Sam and the chauffeur tumbled awake . 
Across the road stretched the great bulk of a touring car , its lamps burning dully in the brilliance of the moon . 
Around it , for greater warmth , a half dozen figures stamped upon the frozen ground , and beat themselves with their arms . 
Sam and the chauffeur vaulted into the road , and went toward them . 
It's what you say , and the way you say it , the girl explained . 
She seemed to be continuing an argument . 
It makes it so very difficult for us to play together . 
The young man clasped the wheel as though the force he were holding in check were much greater than sixty horse power . 
You are not married yet , are you ? he demanded . 
The girl moved her head . 
And when you are married , there will probably be an altar from which you will turn to walk back up the aisle ? Well ? said the girl . 
Well , he answered explosively , until you turn away from that altar , I do not recognize the right of any man to keep me quiet , or your right either . 
Why should I be held by your engagement ? I was not consulted about it . 
If you go on , said the girl , it will mean that I shall not see you again . 
Then I will write letters to you . 
I will not read them , said the girl . 
The young man laughed defiantly . 
Oh , yes , you will read them ! He pounded his gauntleted fist on the rim of the wheel . 
You mayn't answer them , but if I can write the way I feel , I will bet you'll read them . 
His voice changed suddenly , and he began to plead . 
It was as though she were some masculine giant bullying a small boy . 
You are not fair to me , he protested . 
I do not ask you to be kind , I ask you to be fair . 
I am fighting for what means more to me than anything in this world , and you won't even listen . 
Why should I recognize any other men ! All I recognize is that I am the man who loves you , that I am the man at your feet . 
That is all I know , that I love you . 
The girl moved as though with the cold , and turned her head from him . 
I love you , repeated the young man . 
The girl breathed like one who has been swimming under water , but , when she spoke , her voice was calm and contained . 
Please ! she begged , don't you see how unfair it is . 
I can't go away I HAVE to listen . 
The young man pulled himself upright , and pressed his lips together . 
I beg your pardon , he whispered . 
There was for some time an unhappy silence , and then Winthrop added bitterly Methinks the punishment exceeds the offence . 
Do you think you make it easy for ME ? returned the girl . 
She would have liked to reach out her hand and lay it on his arm , and tell him she was sorry , but she could not . 
He should not have looked so unnecessarily handsome . 
Sam came running toward them with five grizzly bears , who balanced themselves apparently with some slight effort upon their hind legs . 
The grizzly bears were properly presented as Tommy Todd , of my class , and some more like him . 
And , continued Sam , I am going to quit you two and go with them . 
Tom's car broke down , but Fred fixed it , and both our cars can travel together . 
Sort of convoy , he explained . 
His sister signalled eagerly , but with equal eagerness he retreated from her . 
And , besides , I want to hear about the game . 
And , what's more , two cars are much safer than one . 
Suppose you two break down in a lonely place ? We'll be right behind you to pick you up . 
You will keep Winthrop's car in sight , won't you , Tommy ? he said . 
The grizzly bear called Tommy , who had been examining the Scarlet Car , answered doubtfully that the only way he could keep it in sight was by tying a rope to it . 
That's all right , then , said Sam briskly , Winthrop will go slow . 
For some time there was silence in the Scarlet Car , and then Winthrop broke it by laughing . 
In that mood she was not afraid of him . 
She lifted her face , and stretched out her arms as though she were drinking in the moonlight . 
It has been such a good day , she said simply , and I am really so very happy . 
I shall be equally frank , said Winthrop . 
So am I. For two hours they had been on the road , and were just entering Fairport . 
For some long time the voices of the pursuing grizzlies had been lost in the far distance . 
The road's up , said Miss Forbes . 
She pointed ahead to two red lanterns . 
It was all right this morning , exclaimed Winthrop . 
The car was pulled down to eight miles an hour , and , trembling and snorting at the indignity , nosed up to the red lanterns . 
They showed in a ruddy glow the legs of two men . 
You gotta stop ! commanded a voice . 
The voice became embodied in the person of a tall man , with a long overcoat and a drooping mustache . 
'Cause I tell you to ! snapped the tall man . 
Winthrop threw a quick glance to the rear . 
In that direction for a mile the road lay straight away . 
He could see its entire length , and it was empty . 
In thinking of nothing but Miss Forbes , he had forgotten the chaperon . 
He was impressed with the fact that the immediate presence of a chaperon was desirable . 
Directly in front of the car , blocking its advance , were two barrels , with a two inch plank sagging heavily between them . 
Beyond that the main street of Fairport lay steeped in slumber and moonlight . 
I am a selectman , said the one with the lantern . 
You been exceedin' our speed limit . 
The chauffeur gave a gasp that might have been construed to mean that the charge amazed and shocked him . 
That is not possible , Winthrop answered . 
I have been going very slow on purpose to allow a disabled car to keep up with me . 
The selectman looked down the road . 
It ain't kep' up with you , he said pointedly . 
It has until the last few minutes . 
It's the last few minutes we're talking about , returned the man who had not spoken . 
He put his foot on the step of the car . 
What are you doing ? asked Winthrop . 
I am going to take you to Judge Allen's . 
I am chief of police . 
If I have exceeded your speed limit , he said politely , I shall be delighted to pay the fine . 
How much is it ? Judge Allen'll tell you what the fine is , said the selectman gruffly . 
And he may want bail . 
Do you mean to tell me he will detain us here ? He will , if he wants to , answered the chief of police combatively . 
For an instant Winthrop sat gazing gloomily ahead , overcome apparently by the enormity of his offence . 
He was calculating whether , if he rammed the two inch plank , it would hit the car or Miss Forbes . 
He decided swiftly it would hit his new two hundred dollar lamps . 
As swiftly he decided the new lamps must go . 
But he had read of guardians of the public safety so regardless of private safety as to try to puncture runaway tires with pistol bullets . 
He had no intention of subjecting Miss Forbes to a fusillade . 
So he whirled upon the chief of police Take your hand off that gun ! he growled . 
How dare you threaten me ? Amazed , the chief of police dropped from the step and advanced indignantly . 
I ain't got a gun . 
What you mean by With sudden intelligence , the chauffeur precipitated himself upon the scene . 
It's the other one , he shouted . 
He shook an accusing finger at the selectman . 
He pointed it at the lady . 
To Miss Forbes the realism of Fred's acting was too convincing . 
To learn that one is covered with a loaded revolver is disconcerting . 
Miss Forbes gave a startled squeak , and ducked her head . 
Winthrop roared aloud at the selectman . 
How dare you frighten the lady ! he cried . 
Take your hand off that gun . 
What you talkin' about ? shouted the selectman . 
The idea of my havin' a gun ! I haven't got a All right , Fred ! cried Winthrop . 
There was a crash of shattered glass and brass , of scattered barrel staves , the smell of escaping gas , and the Scarlet Car was flying drunkenly down the main street . 
What are they doing now , Fred ? called the owner . 
Fred peered over the stern of the flying car . 
The constable's jumping around the road , he replied , and the long one's leaning against a tree . 
No , he's climbing the tree . 
I can't make out WHAT he's doing . 
I know ! cried Miss Forbes her voice vibrated with excitement . 
Defiance of the law had thrilled her with unsuspected satisfaction her eyes were dancing . 
There was a telephone fastened to the tree , a hand telephone . 
They are sending word to some one . 
They're trying to head us off . 
Winthrop brought the car to a quick halt . 
We're in a police trap ! he said . 
Fred leaned forward and whispered to his employer . 
His voice also vibrated with the joy of the chase . 
This'll be our THIRD arrest , he said . 
That means I know what it means , snapped Winthrop . 
Tell me how we can get out of here . 
We can't get out of here , sir , unless we go back . 
Going south , the bridge is the only way out . 
The bridge ! Winthrop struck the wheel savagely with his knuckles . 
I forgot their confounded bridge ! He turned to Miss Forbes . 
Fairport is a sort of island , he explained . 
But after we're across the bridge , urged the chauffeur , we needn't keep to the post road no more . 
We can turn into Stone Ridge , and strike south to White Plains . 
Then We haven't crossed the bridge yet , growled Winthrop . 
His voice had none of the joy of the others he was greatly perturbed . 
Look back , he commanded , and see if there is any sign of those boys . 
He was now quite willing to share responsibility . 
But there was no sign of the Yale men , and , unattended , the Scarlet Car crept warily forward . 
Ahead of it , across the little reed grown inlet , stretched their road of escape , a long wooden bridge , lying white in the moonlight . 
I don't see a soul , whispered Miss Forbes . 
Anybody at that draw ? asked Winthrop . 
Unconsciously his voice also had sunk to a whisper . 
I think the man that tends the draw goes home at night there is no light there . 
Well then , said Winthrop , with an anxious sigh , we've got to make a dash for it . 
The car shot forward , and , as it leaped lightly upon the bridge , there was a rapid rumble of creaking boards . 
Between it and the highway to New York lay only two hundred yards of track , straight and empty . 
In his excitement the chauffeur rose from the rear seat . 
They'll never catch us now , he muttered . 
They'll never catch us ! But even as he spoke there grated harshly the creak of rusty chains on a cogged wheel , the rattle of a brake . 
The black figure of a man with waving arms ran out upon the draw , and the draw gaped slowly open . 
When the car halted there was between it and the broken edge of the bridge twenty feet of running water . 
At the same moment from behind it came a patter of feet , and Winthrop turned to see racing toward them some dozen young men of Fairport . 
They surrounded him with noisy , raucous , belligerent cries . 
They were , as they proudly informed him , members of the Fairport Volunteer Fire Department . 
That they might purchase new uniforms , they had arranged a trap for the automobiles returning in illegal haste from New Haven . 
In fines they had collected , and it was evident that already some of that money had been expended in bad whiskey . 
As many as could do so crowded into the car , others hung to the running boards and step , others ran beside it . 
They rejoiced over Winthrop's unsuccessful flight and capture with violent and humiliating laughter . 
For the day , Judge Allen had made a temporary court in the clubroom of the fire department , which was over the engine house and the proceedings were brief and decisive . 
Winthrop and the chauffeur the learned judge condemned to the cells in the basement . 
As a concession , he granted Miss Forbes the freedom of the entire clubroom to herself . 
When leaving their clubroom , it was always their pleasure to scorn the stairs and , like real firemen , slide down this pole . 
It had not escaped the notice of Fred , and since his entrance he had been gravitating toward it . 
The irate judge was shaking his finger in Winthrop's face . 
Don't you try to teach me no law , he shouted I know what I can do . 
Ef MY darter went gallivantin' around nights in one of them automobiles , it would serve her right to get locked up . 
Maybe this young woman will learn to stay at home nights with her folks . 
She ain't goin' to take no harm here . 
The constable sits up all night downstairs in the fire engine room , and that sofa's as good a place to sleep as the hotel . 
I don't intend to give the newspapers and you and these other idiots the chance to annoy her further . 
This young lady's brother has been with us all day he left us only by accident , and by forcing her to remain here alone you are acting outrageously . 
If you knew anything of decency , or law , you'd I know this much ! roared the justice triumphantly , pointing his spectacle case at Miss Forbes . 
I know her name ain't Lizzie Borden and yours ain't Charley Ross . 
Winthrop crossed to where Miss Forbes stood in a corner . 
She still wore her veil , but through it , though her face was pale , she smiled at him . 
His own distress was undisguised . 
I can never forgive myself , he said . 
Nonsense ! replied Miss Forbes briskly . 
If we had sent for any one , it would have had to come out . 
Now , we'll pay the fine in the morning and get home , and no one will know anything of it excepting the family and Mr. Peabody , and they'll understand . 
But if I ever lay hands on my brother Sam ! she clasped her fingers together helplessly . 
To think of his leaving you to spend the night in a cell Winthrop interrupted her . 
I will get one of these men to send his wife or sister over to stay with you , he said . 
But Miss Forbes protested that she did not want a companion . 
The constable would protect her , she said , and she would sit up all night and read . 
She nodded at the periodicals on the club table . 
This is the only chance I may ever have , she said , to read the Police Gazette' ! You ready there ? called the constable . 
Good night , said Winthrop . 
Under the eyes of the grinning yokels , they shook hands . 
Good night , said the girl . 
Where's your young man ? demanded the chief of police . 
My what ? inquired Winthrop . 
The young fellow that was with you when we held you up that first time . 
Any of you holding that shoffer ? he called . 
No one was holding the chauffeur . 
The cell to which the constable led Winthrop was in a corner of the cellar in which formerly coal had been stored . 
This corner was now fenced off with boards , and a wooden door with chain and padlock . 
High in the wall , on a level with the ground , was the opening , or window , through which the coal had been dumped . 
This window now was barricaded with iron bars . 
Winthrop tested the door by shaking it , and landed a heavy kick on one of the hinges . 
It gave slightly , and emitted a feeble groan . 
What you tryin'to do ? demanded the constable . 
In the light of the constable's lantern , Winthrop surveyed his cell with extreme dissatisfaction . 
I call this a cheap cell , he said . 
It's good enough for a cheap sport , returned the constable . 
They received it with delighted howls . 
Compared to his tortures , those of Neuremberg were merely reprimands . 
Also he considered the particular punishment he would mete out to Sam Forbes for his desertion of his sister , and to Fred . 
He could not understand Fred . 
It was not like the chauffeur to think only of himself . 
Nevertheless , for abandoning Miss Forbes in the hour of need , Fred must be discharged . 
He had , with some regret , determined upon this discipline , when from directly over his head the voice of Fred hailed him cautiously . 
Mr. Winthrop , the voice called , are you there ? To Winthrop the question seemed superfluous . 
He jumped to his feet , and peered up into the darkness . 
Where are YOU ? he demanded . 
At the window , came the answer . 
We're in the back yard . 
Mr. Sam wants to speak to you . 
On Miss Forbes's account , Winthrop gave a gasp of relief . 
On his own , one of savage satisfaction . 
And I want to speak to HIM ! he whispered . 
The moonlight , which had been faintly shining through the iron bars of the coal chute , was eclipsed by a head and shoulders . 
The comfortable voice of Sam Forbes greeted him in a playful whisper . 
Hullo , Billy ! You down there ? Where the devil did you think I was ? Winthrop answered at white heat . 
Let me tell you if I was not down here I'd be punching your head . 
That's all right , Billy , Sam answered soothingly . 
But I'll save you just the same . 
All the low comedy parts are out now arranging a rescue . 
Who are ? Todd and those boys ? demanded Winthrop . 
They mustn't think of it ! They'll only make it worse . 
It is impossible to get your sister out of here with those drunken firemen in the building . 
You must wait till they've gone home . 
Do you hear me ? Pardon ME ! returned Sam stiffly but this is MY relief expedition . 
Entice them ? How ? demanded Winthrop . 
They're drunk , and they won't leave here till morning . 
Outside the engine house , suspended from a heavy cross bar , was a steel rail borrowed from a railroad track , and bent into a hoop . 
When hit with a sledge hammer it proclaimed to Fairport that the consuming element was at large . 
From the room above came a wild tumult of joyous yells . 
Through the window Sam lowered a bag of tools he had taken from Winthrop's car . 
Can you open the lock with any of these ? he asked . 
I can kick it open ! yelled Winthrop joyfully . 
Get to your sister , quick ! He threw his shoulder against the door , and the staples flying before him sent him sprawling in the coal dust . 
What the devil have you done ? gasped Winthrop . 
Before he answered , Sam waited until the cars were rattling to safety across the bridge . 
We have been protecting the face of nature , he shouted . 
The only way to get that gang out of the engine house was to set fire to something . 
But we finally formed the Village Improvement Society , organized to burn all advertising signs . 
You know those that stood in the marshes , and hid the view from the trains , so that you could not see the Sound . 
It was midnight when the cars drew up at the door of the house of Forbes . 
Anxiously waiting in the library were Mrs. Forbes and Ernest Peabody . 
At last ! cried Mrs. Forbes , smiling her relief we thought maybe Sam and you had decided to spend the night in New Haven . 
No , said Miss Forbes , there WAS some talk about spending the night at Fairport , but we pushed right on . 
The lamps showed a flickering picture of a country road between high banks covered with loose stones , and overhead , a fringe of pine boughs . 
It looked like a colored photograph thrown from a stereopticon in a darkened theater . 
From the back of the car the voice of the owner said briskly We will now sing that beautiful ballad entitled He Is Sleeping in the Yukon Vale To night . 
What are you stopping for , Fred ? he asked . 
The tone of the chauffeur suggested he was again upon the defensive . 
For water , sir , he mumbled . 
Miss Forbes in the front seat laughed , and her brother in the rear seat , groaned in dismay . 
Oh , for water ? said the owner cordially . 
I thought maybe it was for coal . 
He didn't get the water , said the owner sadly . 
Are you hurt , Fred ? asked the girl . 
The chauffeur limped in front of the lamps , appearing suddenly , like an actor stepping into the limelight . 
No , ma'am , he said . 
In the rays of the lamp , he unfolded a road map and scowled at it . 
He shook his head aggrievedly . 
There OUGHT to be a house just about here , he explained . 
There OUGHT to be a hotel and a garage , and a cold supper , just about here , said the girl cheerfully . 
That's the way with those houses , complained the owner . 
They never stay where they're put . 
At night they go around and visit each other . 
Well , get there , then , and get the water , commanded the owner . 
But I can't get there , sir , till I get the water , returned the chauffeur . 
He shook out two collapsible buckets , and started down the shaft of light . 
I won't be more nor five minutes , he called . 
I'm going with him , said the girl , I'm cold . 
She stepped down from the front seat , and the owner with sudden alacrity vaulted the door and started after her . 
You coming ? he inquired of Ernest Peabody . 
But Ernest Peabody being soundly asleep made no reply . 
Are YOU coming ? he repeated . 
The tone of the invitation seemed to suggest that a refusal would not necessarily lead to a quarrel . 
I am NOT ! said the brother . 
You've kept Peabody and me twelve hours in the open air , and it's past two , and we're going to sleep . 
You can take it from me that we are going to spend the rest of this night here in this road . 
He moved his cramped joints cautiously , and stretched his legs the full width of the car . 
If you can't get plain water , he called , get club soda . 
From the woods about him the smell of the pine needles pressed upon him like a drug , and before the footsteps of his companions were lost in the silence he was asleep . 
But his sleep was only a review of his waking hours . 
But the men in the car only shivered slightly , deep in the sleep of utter weariness . 
In silence the girl and Winthrop followed the chauffeur . 
They had passed out of the light of the lamps , and in the autumn mist the electric torch of the owner was as ineffective as a glow worm . 
The mystery of the forest fell heavily upon them . 
From their feet the dead leaves sent up a clean , damp odor , and on either side and overhead the giant pine trees whispered and rustled in the night wind . 
Take my coat , too , said the young man . 
He spoke with authority and began to slip the loops from the big horn buttons . 
It was not the habit of the girl to consider her health . 
Nor did she permit the members of her family to show solicitude concerning it . 
But the anxiety of the young man , did not seem to offend her . 
No these coats are hard to walk in , and I want to walk , she exclaimed . 
I like to hear the leaves rustle when you kick them , don't you ? When I was so high , I used to pretend it was wading in the surf . 
The young man moved over to the gutter of the road where the leaves were deepest and kicked violently . 
And the more noise you make , he said , the more you frighten away the wild animals . 
The girl shuddered in a most helpless and fascinating fashion . 
I didn't mention it , but already I have seen several lions crouching behind the trees . 
Indeed ? said the young man . 
He had just kicked a rock , hidden by the leaves , and was standing on one leg . 
Do you mean you don't believe me ? asked the girl , or is it that you are merely brave ? Merely brave ! exclaimed the young man . 
Massachusetts is so far north for lions , he continued , that I fancy what you saw was a grizzly bear . 
But I have my trusty electric torch with me , and if there is anything a bear cannot abide , it is to be pointed at by an electric torch . 
Let us pretend , cried the girl , that we are the babes in the wood , and that we are lost . 
We don't have to pretend we're lost , said the man , and as I remember it , the babes came to a sad end . 
Didn't they die , and didn't the birds bury them with leaves ? Sam and Mr. Peabody can be the birds , suggested the girl . 
Sam and Peabody hopping around with leaves in their teeth would look silly , objected the man , I doubt if I could keep from laughing . 
Then , said the girl , they can be the wicked robbers who came to kill the babes . 
Very well , said the man with suspicious alacrity , let us be babes . 
If I have to die , he went on heartily , I would rather die with you than live with any one else . 
After a silence , the girl said Perhaps it would be better for us to go back to the car . 
I won't do it again , begged the man . 
We will pretend , cried the girl , that the car is a van and that we are gypsies , and we'll build a campfire , and I will tell your fortune . 
You are the only woman who can , muttered the young man . 
The girl still stood in her tracks . 
I know , interrupted the man , but you won't let me talk seriously , so I joke . 
But some day Oh , look ! cried the girl . 
She ran from him down the road . 
The young man followed her slowly , his fists deep in the pockets of the great coat , and kicking at the unoffending leaves . 
The chauffeur was peering through a double iron gate hung between square brick posts . 
The lower hinge of one gate was broken , and that gate lurched forward leaving an opening . 
That's it , whispered the chauffeur . 
The well is over there . 
The young man gave a gasp of astonishment . 
Why , he protested , this is the Carey place ! I should say we WERE lost . 
We must have left the road an hour ago . 
There's not another house within miles . 
But he made no movement to enter . 
Of all places ! he muttered . 
Well , then , urged the girl briskly , if there's no other house , let's tap Mr. Carey's well and get on . 
Do you know who he is ? asked the man . 
You don't need a letter of introduction to take a bucket of water , do you ? she said . 
He spoke in a whisper , and insistently , as though the information must carry some special significance . 
But the girl showed no sign of enlightenment . 
You remember the Carey boys ? he urged . 
They left Harvard the year I entered . 
All the Careys have been mad . 
The boys were queer even then , and awfully rich . 
Henry ran away with a girl from a shoe factory in Brockton and lives in Paris , and Philip was sent here . 
Sent here ? repeated the girl . 
Unconsciously her voice also had sunk to a whisper . 
He has a doctor and a nurse and keepers , and they live here all the year round . 
For , a minute the three stood silent , peering through the iron bars . 
And the worst of it is , went on the young man irritably , he could give us such good things to eat . 
It doesn't look it , said the girl . 
I know , continued the man in the same eager whisper . 
But who was it was telling me ? Some doctor I know who came down to see him . 
I shouldn't think , said the girl in the same hushed voice , they would let him live so far from any neighbors with such things in the house . 
Suppose burglars Burglars ! Burglars would never hear of this place . 
How could they ? Even his friends think it's just a private madhouse . 
The girl shivered and drew back from the gate . 
I'VE heard of it , he volunteered . 
There was a piece in the Sunday Post . 
It said he eats his dinner in a diamond crown , and all the walls is gold , and two monkeys wait on table with gold Nonsense ! said the man sharply . 
He eats like any one else and dresses like any one else . 
How far is the well from the house ? It's purty near , said the chauffeur . 
Pretty near the house , or pretty near here ? Just outside the kitchen and it makes a creaky noise . 
You mean you don't want to go ? Fred's answer was unintelligible . 
You wait here with Miss Forbes , said the young man . 
And I'll get the water . 
Yes , sir ! said Fred , quite distinctly . 
No , sir ! said Miss Forbes , with equal distinctness . 
I'm not going to be left here alone with all these trees . 
There may be a dog , suggested the young man , or , I was thinking if they heard me prowling about , they might take a shot just for luck . 
Why don't you go back to the car with Fred ? Down that long road in the dark ? exclaimed the girl . 
Within fifty feet of the house the courage of the chauffeur returned . 
You wait here , he whispered , and if I wake 'em up , you shout to 'em that it's all right , that it's only me . 
Your idea being , said the young man , that they will then fire at me . 
There was a rustling of the dead weeds , and instantly the chauffeur was swallowed in the encompassing shadows . 
Miss Forbes leaned toward the young man . 
Do you see a light in that lower story ? she whispered . 
No , said the man . 
Where ? After a pause the girl answered I can't see it now , either . 
Maybe I didn't see it . 
It was very faint just a glow it might have been phosphorescence . 
It might , said the man . 
He gave a shrug of distaste . 
The whole place is certainly old enough and decayed enough . 
For a brief space they stood quite still , and at once , accentuated by their own silence , the noises of the night grew in number and distinctness . 
From every side they were startled by noises they could not place . 
The young man drew a cigar from his case and put it unlit between his teeth . 
Cheerful , isn't it ? he growled . 
These dead leaves make it damp as a tomb . 
If I've seen one ghost , I've seen a dozen . 
I believe we're standing in the Carey family's graveyard . 
I thought you were brave , said the girl . 
I am , returned the young man , very brave . 
But if you had the most wonderful girl on earth to take care of in the grounds of a madhouse at two in the morning , you'd be scared too . 
He was abruptly surprised by Miss Forbes laying her hand firmly upon his shoulder , and turning him in the direction of the house . 
Her face was so near his that he felt the uneven fluttering of her breath upon his cheek . 
There is a man , she said , standing behind that tree . 
By the faint light of the stars he saw , in black silhouette , a shoulder and head projecting from beyond the trunk of a huge oak , and then quickly withdrawn . 
He is watching the house , said the girl . 
Why is he doing that ? I think it's Fred , whispered the man . 
He's afraid to go for the water . 
That's as far as he's gone . 
He was about to move forward when from the oak tree there came a low whistle . 
The girl and the man stood silent and motionless . 
But they knew it was useless that they had been overheard . 
That you ? it asked . 
With the idea only of gaining time , the young man responded promptly and truthfully . 
Keep to the right of the house , commanded the voice . 
The young man seized Miss Forbes by the wrist and moving to the right drew her quickly with him . 
He did not stop until they had turned the corner of the building , and were once more hidden by the darkness . 
The plot thickens , he said . 
I take it that that fellow is a keeper , or watchman . 
Why should a watchman hide behind a tree ? asked the girl . 
And why She ceased abruptly with a sharp cry of fright . 
What's that ? she whispered . 
What's what ? asked the young man startled . 
What did you hear ? Over there , stammered the girl . 
Pretty soon this will get on my nerves , said the man . 
He ripped open his greatcoat and reached under it . 
I've been stoned twice , when there were women in the car , he said , apologetically , and so now at night I carry a gun . 
He shifted the darkened torch to his left hand , and , moving a few yards , halted to listen . 
The girl , reluctant to be left alone , followed slowly . 
As he stood immovable there came from the leaves just beyond him the sound of a feeble struggle , and a strangled groan . 
The man bent forward and flashed the torch . 
He saw stretched rigid on the ground a huge wolf hound . 
Its legs were twisted horribly , the lips drawn away from the teeth , the eyes glazed in an agony of pain . 
The man snapped off the light . 
Keep back ! he whispered to the girl . 
He took her by the arm and ran with her toward the gate . 
Who was it ? she begged . 
It was a dog , he answered . 
I think He did not tell her what he thought . 
I've got to find out what the devil has happened to Fred ! he said . 
You go back to the car . 
Send your brother here on the run . 
Tell him there's going to be a rough house . 
You're not afraid to go ? No , said the girl . 
In his hand she felt the pressure of the revolver . 
Well , he replied truculently , and what are you doing here ? I am the night watchman , answered the voice . 
We came here She found herself staring blindly down a shaft of light . 
For an instant the torch held her , and then from her swept over the young man . 
Drop that gun ! cried the voice . 
It was no longer the same voice it was now savage and snarling . 
For answer the young man pressed the torch in his left hand , and , held in the two circles of light , the men surveyed each other . 
The newcomer was one of unusual bulk and height . 
The young man dropped his revolver into his pocket . 
My automobile ran dry , he said we came in here to get some water . 
My chauffeur is back there somewhere with a couple of buckets . 
This is Mr. Carey's place , isn't it ? Take that light out of my eyes ! said the watchman . 
Take your light out of my eyes , returned the young man . 
You can see we're not we don't mean any harm . 
The two lights disappeared simultaneously , and then each , as though worked by the same hand , sprang forth again . 
What did you think I was going to do ? the young man asked . 
He laughed and switched off his torch . 
But the one the watchman held in his hand still moved from the face of the girl to that of the young man . 
How'd you know this was the Carey house ? he demanded . 
Do you know Mr. Carey ? No , but I know this is his house . 
For a moment from behind his mask of light the watchman surveyed them in silence . 
Then he spoke quickly I'll take you to him , he said , if he thinks it's all right , it's all right . 
The girl gave a protesting cry . 
The young man burst forth indignantly You will NOT ! he cried . 
Don't be an idiot ! You talk like a Tenderloin cop . 
Do we look like second story workers ? I found you prowling around Mr. Carey's grounds at two in the morning , said the watchman sharply , with a gun in your hand . 
My job is to protect this place , and I am going to take you both to Mr. Carey . 
Until this moment the young man could see nothing save the shaft of light and the tiny glowing bulb at its base now into the light there protruded a black revolver . 
Keep your hands up , and walk ahead of me to the house , commanded the watchman . 
The woman will go in front . 
The young man did not move . 
Under his breath he muttered impotently , and bit at his lower lip . 
See here , he said , I'll go with you , but you shan't take this lady in front of that madman . 
Let her go to her car . 
Miss Forbes stepped in front of it and appealed eagerly to the young man . 
Do what he says , she urged . 
Please ! Indeed , I don't mind . 
She turned to the watchman . 
Which way do you want us to go ? she asked . 
Keep in the light , he ordered . 
It led into a greater hall beyond . 
By the electric lights still burning they noted that the interior of the house was as rich and well cared for as the outside was miserable . 
With a gesture for silence the watchman motioned them into a small room on the right of the hallway . 
It had the look of an office , and was apparently the place in which were conducted the affairs of the estate . 
In an open grate was a dying fire in front of it a flat desk covered with papers and japanned tin boxes . 
You stay here till I fetch Mr. Carey , and the servants , commanded the watchman . 
Don't try to get out , and , he added menacingly , don't make no noise . 
With his revolver he pointed at the two windows . 
Those bars keep Mr. Carey in , he said , and I guess they can keep you in , too . 
The other watchman , he added , will be just outside this door . 
But still he hesitated , glowering with suspicion unwilling to trust them alone . 
His face lit with an ugly smile . 
Mr. Carey's very bad to night , he said he won't keep his bed and he's wandering about the house . 
If he found you by yourselves , he might The young man , who had been staring at the fire , swung sharply on his heel . 
Get to hell out of here ! he said . 
The watchman stepped into the hall and was cautiously closing the door when a man sprang lightly up the front steps . 
Through the inch crack left by the open door the trespassers heard the newcomers eager greeting . 
I can't get him right ! he panted . 
He's snoring like a hog . 
The watchman exclaimed savagely He's fooling you . 
I didn't mor' nor slap him . 
Did you throw water on him ? I drowned him ! returned the other . 
I tell You we gotta walk , and damn quick ! Walk ! The watchman cursed him foully . 
How far could we walk ? I'LL bring him to , he swore . 
He's scared of us , and he's shamming . 
He gave a sudden start of alarm . 
That's it , he's shamming . 
You fool ! You shouldn't have left him . 
There was the swift patter of retreating footsteps , and then a sudden halt , and they heard the watchman command Go back , and keep the other two till I come . 
The next instant from the outside the door was softly closed upon them . 
It were as though he were practising upon a typewriter . 
He missed THESE , he muttered jubilantly . 
Beneath his fingers she saw , flush with the table , a roll of little ivory buttons . 
She read the words Stables , Servants' hall . 
She raised a pair of very beautiful and very bewildered eyes . 
But if he wanted the servants , why didn't the watchman do that ? she asked . 
Because he isn't a watchman , answered the young man . 
Because he's robbing this house . 
He took the revolver from his encumbering greatcoat , slipped it in his pocket , and threw the coat from him . 
He motioned the girl into a corner . 
Keep out of the line of the door , he ordered . 
I don't understand , begged the girl . 
They came in a car , whispered the young man . 
It's broken down , and they can't get away . 
When the big fellow stopped us and I flashed my torch , I saw their car behind him in the road with the front off and the lights out . 
He'd seen the lamps of our car , and now they want it to escape in . 
That's why he brought us here to keep us away from our car . 
And Fred ! gasped the girl . 
You needn't worry about Fred . 
He's been in four smash ups . 
The young man bent forward to listen , but from no part of the great house came any sign . 
They must be drugged , he growled . 
He ran to the desk and made vicious jabs at the ivory buttons . 
Suppose they're out of order ! he whispered . 
There was the sound of leaping feet . 
The young man laughed nervously . 
No , it's all right , he cried . 
They're coming ! The door flung open and the big burglar and a small , rat like figure of a man burst upon them the big one pointing a revolver . 
Come with me to your car ! he commanded . 
You've got to take us to Boston . 
Quick , or I'll blow your face off . 
When the weight of his body was balanced on the ball of his right foot , the shuffling ceased . 
Had the burglar lowered his eyes , the manoeuvre to him would have been significant , but his eyes were following the barrel of the revolver . 
Still , when he spoke , it was with deliberation . 
My chauffeur he began slowly . 
The burglar snapped at him like a dog . 
To hell with your chauffeur ! he cried . 
Your chauffeur has run away . 
You'll drive that car yourself , or I'll leave you here with the top of your head off . 
The face of the young man suddenly flashed with pleasure . 
His eyes , looking past the burglar to the door , lit with relief . 
There's the chauffeur now ! he cried . 
The big burglar for one instant glanced over his right shoulder . 
He leaped at him , his left arm swinging like a scythe , and , with the impact of a club , the blow caught the burglar in the throat . 
The pistol went off impotently the burglar with a choking cough sank in a heap on the floor . 
The young man tramped over him and upon him , and beat the second burglar with savage , whirlwind blows . 
From all over the house there was the rush of feet and men's voices , and from the garden the light of dancing lanterns . 
And while the smoke of the revolver still hung motionless , the open door was crowded with half clad figures . 
At their head were two young men . 
It was the young man in the serge suit who was the first to move . 
Who are you ? he demanded . 
These are burglars , said the owner of the car . 
We happened to be passing in my automobile , and The young man was no longer listening . 
With an alert , professional manner he had stooped over the big burglar . 
With his thumb he pushed back the man's eyelids , and ran his fingers over his throat and chin . 
He felt carefully of the point of the chin , and glanced up . 
You've broken the bone , he said . 
I just swung on him , said the young man . 
He turned his eyes , and suggested the presence of the girl . 
At the same moment the man in the kimono cried nervously Ladies present , ladies present . 
Go put your clothes on , everybody put your clothes on . 
For orders the men in the doorway looked to the young man with the stern face . 
He scowled at the figure in the kimono . 
You will please go to your room , sir , he said . 
He stood up , and bowed to Miss Forbes . 
I beg your pardon , he asked , you must want to get out of this . 
Will you please go into the library ? He turned to the robust youths in the door , and pointed at the second burglar . 
Move him out of the way , he ordered . 
The man in the kimono smirked and bowed . 
Allow me , he said allow me to show you to the library . 
This is no place for ladies . 
The young man with the stern face frowned impatiently . 
You will please return to your room , sir , he repeated . 
With an attempt at dignity the figure in the kimono gathered the silk robe closer about him . 
If you think you can get on without me I will retire , and lifting his bare feet mincingly , he tiptoed away . 
Miss Forbes looked after him with an expression of relief , of repulsion , of great pity . 
The owner of the car glanced at the young man with the stern face , and raised his eyebrows interrogatively . 
The young man had taken the revolver from the limp fingers of the burglar and was holding it in his hand . 
Winthrop gave what was half a laugh and half a sigh of compassion . 
So , that's Carey ? he said . 
There was a sudden silence . 
The young man with the stern face made no answer . 
His head was bent over the revolver . 
He broke it open , and spilled the cartridges into his palm . 
Still he made no answer . 
When he raised his head , his eyes were no longer stern , but wistful , and filled with an inexpressible loneliness . 
No , I am Carey , he said . 
The one who had blundered stood helpless , tongue tied , with no presence of mind beyond knowing that to explain would offend further . 
The other seemed to feel for him more than for himself . 
In a voice low and peculiarly appealing , he continued hurriedly . 
He is my doctor , he said . 
He is a young man , and he has not had many advantages his manner is not I find we do not get on together . 
I have asked them to send me some one else . 
He stopped suddenly , and stood unhappily silent . 
The knowledge that the strangers were acquainted with his story seemed to rob him of his earlier confidence . 
He made an uncertain movement as though to relieve them of his presence . 
Miss Forbes stepped toward him eagerly . 
You told me I might wait in the library , she said . 
Will you go ? he asked wistfully . 
Why not ? said the girl . 
The young man laughed with pleasure . 
I am unpardonable , he said . 
I live so much alone that I forget . 
Like one who , issuing from a close room , encounters the morning air , he drew a deep , happy breath . 
It has been three years since a woman has been in this house , he said simply . 
And I have not even thanked you , he went on , nor asked you if you are cold , he cried remorsefully , or hungry . 
How nice it would be if you would say you are hungry . 
The voice of their host rang through the empty house with a laugh like that of an eager , happy child . 
As they were finishing the supper filched from the ice chest , Fred was brought before them from the kitchen . 
The blow the burglar had given him was covered with a piece of cold beef steak , and the water thrown on him to revive him was thawing from his leather breeches . 
Mr. Carey expressed his gratitude , and rewarded him beyond the avaricious dreams even of a chauffeur . 
As the three trespassers left the house , accompanied by many pails of water , the girl turned to the lonely figure in the doorway and waved her hand . 
May we come again ? she called . 
But young Mr. Carey did not trust his voice to answer . 
Standing erect , with folded arms , in dark silhouette in the light of the hall , he bowed his head . 
Deaf to alarm bells , to pistol shots , to cries for help , they found her brother and Ernest Peabody sleeping soundly . 
Sam is a charming chaperon , said the owner of the car . 
In the rear seat Peabody shivered and yawned , and then sat erect . 
Did you get the water ? he demanded , anxiously . 
There was a grim silence . 
Yes , said the owner of the car patiently . 
You needn't worry any longer . 
III THE KIDNAPPERS During the last two weeks of the whirlwind campaign , automobiles had carried the rival candidates to every election district in Greater New York . 
Not that Winthrop greatly cared for Reform , or Ernest Peabody . 
The whirlwind part of the campaign was what attracted him the crowds , the bands , the fireworks , the rush by night from hall to hall , from Fordham to Tompkinsville . 
To Winthrop , the day in which he did not increase his acquaintance with the traffic squad , was a day lost . 
But the real reason for his efforts in the cause of Reform , was one he could not declare . 
And it was a reason that was guessed perhaps by only one person . 
On some nights Beatrice Forbes and her brother Sam accompanied Peabody . 
And while Peabody sat in the rear of the car , mumbling the speech he would next deliver , Winthrop was given the chance to talk with her . 
These chances were growing cruelly few . 
In one month after election day Miss Forbes and Peabody would be man and wife . 
To the postponement Miss Forbes made no objection . 
To one less self centred than Peabody , it might have appeared that she almost too readily consented . 
What do you think my brother in law to be has done now ? demanded Sam of Winthrop , as the Scarlet Car swept into Jerome Avenue . 
He's postponed his marriage with Trix just because he has a chance to be Lieutenant Governor . 
What is a Lieutenant Governor anyway , do you know ? I don't like to ask Peabody . 
It Is not his own election he's working for , said Winthrop . 
He was conscious of an effort to assume a point of view both noble and magnanimous . 
He probably feels the cause' calls him . 
But , good Heavens ! Look out ! shrieked Sam , where you going ? Winthrop swung the car back into the avenue . 
To think , he cried , that a man who could marry a girl , and then would ask her to wait two months . 
Or , two days ! Two months lost out of his life , and she might die he might lose her , she might change her mind . 
Any number of men can be Lieutenant Governors only one man can be He broke off suddenly , coughed and fixed his eyes miserably on the road . 
After a brief pause , Brother Sam covertly looked at him . 
Could it be that Billie Winthrop , the man liked of all men , should love his sister , and that she should prefer Ernest Peabody ? He was deeply , loyally indignant . 
He determined to demand of his sister an immediate and abject apology . 
At eight o'clock on the morning of election day , Peabody , in the Scarlet Car , was on his way to vote . 
He lived at Riverside Drive , and the polling booth was only a few blocks distant . 
During the rest of the day he intended to use the car to visit other election districts , and to keep him in touch with the Reformers at the Gilsey House . 
Winthrop was acting as his chauffeur , and in the rear seat was Miss Forbes . 
Peabody had asked her to accompany him to the polling booth , because he thought women who believed in reform should show their interest in it in public , before all men . 
After she had seen her future lord and master cast his vote for reform and himself , she was to depart by train to Tarrytown . 
The Forbes's country place was there , and for election day her brother Sam had invited out some of his friends to play tennis . 
As the car darted and dodged up Eighth Avenue , a man who had been hidden by the stairs to the Elevated , stepped in front of it . 
It caught him , and hurled him , like a mail bag tossed from a train , against one of the pillars that support the overhead tracks . 
Winthrop gave a cry and fell upon the brakes . 
The cry was as full of pain as though he himself had been mangled . 
Miss Forbes saw only the man appear , and then disappear , but , Winthrop's shout of warning , and the wrench as the brakes locked , told her what had happened . 
She shut her eyes , and for an instant covered them with her hands . 
On the front seat Peabody clutched helplessly at the cushions . 
In horror his eyes were fastened on the motionless mass jammed against the pillar . 
Winthrop scrambled over him , and ran to where the man lay . 
Once or twice when in his car , Death had reached for Winthrop , and only by the scantiest grace had he escaped . 
Then the nearness of it had only sobered him . 
Now that he believed he had brought it to a fellow man , even though he knew he was in no degree to blame , the thought sickened and shocked him . 
His brain trembled with remorse and horror . 
But voices assailing him on every side brought him to the necessity of the moment . 
Men were pressing close upon him , jostling , abusing him , shaking fists in his face . 
Another crowd of men , as though fearing the car would escape of its own volition , were clinging to the steps and running boards . 
Winthrop saw Miss Forbes standing above them , talking eagerly to Peabody , and pointing at him . 
He heard children's shrill voices calling to new arrivals that an automobile had killed a man that it had killed him on purpose . 
On the outer edge of the crowd men shouted Ah , soak him , Kill him , Lynch him . 
A soiled giant without a collar stooped over the purple , blood stained face , and then leaped upright , and shouted It's Jerry Gaylor , he's killed old man Gaylor . 
Every one seemed to know Jerry Gaylor . 
Winthrop took the soiled person by the arm . 
You help me lift him into my car , he ordered . 
Take him by the shoulders . 
We must get him to a hospital . 
To a hospital ? To the Morgue ! roared the man . 
And the police station for yours . 
You don't do no get away . 
Winthrop answered him by turning to the crowd . 
If this man has any friends here , they'll please help me put him in my car , and we'll take him to Roosevelt Hospital . 
The soiled person shoved a fist and a bad cigar under Winthrop's nose . 
Has he got any friends ? he mocked . 
Sure , he's got friends , and they'll fix you , all right . 
Sure ! echoed the crowd . 
Don't you go away thinking you can come up here with your buzz wagon and murder better men nor you'll ever be and Oh , shut up ! said Winthrop . 
He turned his back on the soiled man , and again appealed to the crowd . 
Don't stand there doing nothing , he commanded . 
Do you want this man to die ? Some of you ring for an ambulance and get a policeman , or tell me where is the nearest drug store . 
No one moved , but every one shouted to every one else to do as Winthrop suggested . 
Winthrop felt something pulling at his sleeve , and turning , found Peabody at his shoulder peering fearfully at the figure in the street . 
He had drawn his cap over his eyes and hidden the lower part of his face in the high collar of his motor coat . 
I can't do anything , can I ? he asked . 
I'm afraid not , whispered Winthrop . 
Go back to the car and don't leave Beatrice . 
That's what I thought , whispered Peabody eagerly . 
I thought she and I had better keep out of it . 
Go back and get Beatrice away . 
Peabody looked his relief , but still hesitated . 
I don't care about myself , he added eagerly , but the very morning of election half the city has not voted yet the Ticket Damn the Ticket ! exclaimed Winthrop . 
The man's dead ! Peabody , burying his face still deeper in his collar , backed into the crowd . 
He whispered to Miss Forbes what he had said , and what Winthrop had said . 
But you DON'T mean to leave him , remarked Miss Forbes . 
I must , returned Peabody . 
I can do nothing for the man , and you know how Tammany will use this They'll have it on the street by ten . 
They'll say I was driving recklessly without regard for human life . 
And , besides , they're waiting for me at headquarters . 
Miss Forbes gave an exclamation of surprise . 
Why , I'm not going , she said . 
You must go ! I must go . 
You can't remain here alone . 
Peabody spoke in the quick , assured tone that at the first had convinced Miss Forbes his was a most masterful manner . 
Winthrop , too , he added , wants you to go away . 
Miss Forbes made no reply . 
But she looked at Peabody inquiringly , steadily , as though she were puzzled as to his identity , as though he had just been introduced to her . 
Are you coming ? he asked . 
Her answer was a question . 
Are you going ? I am ! returned Peabody . 
He added sharply I must . 
Good by , said Miss Forbes . 
As he ran up the steps to the station of the elevated , it seemed to Peabody that the tone of her good by had been most unpleasant . 
It was severe , disapproving . 
It had a final , fateful sound . 
He was conscious of a feeling of self dissatisfaction . 
In not seeing the political importance of his not being mixed up with this accident , Winthrop had been peculiarly obtuse , and Beatrice , unsympathetic . 
Until he had cast his vote for Reform , he felt distinctly ill used . 
For a moment Beatrice Forbes sat in the car motionless , staring unseeingly at the iron steps by which Peabody had disappeared . 
For a few moments her brows we're tightly drawn . 
Then , having apparently quickly arrived at some conclusion , she opened the door of the car and pushed into the crowd . 
Winthrop received her most rudely . 
You mustn't come here ! he cried . 
I thought , she stammered , you might want some one ? I told began Winthrop , and then stopped , and added to take you away . 
Where is he ? Miss Forbes flushed slightly . 
He's gone , she said . 
In trying not to look at Winthrop , she saw the fallen figure , motionless against the pillar , and with an exclamation , bent fearfully toward it . 
Can I do anything ? she asked . 
The crowd gave way for her , and with curious pleased faces , closed in again eagerly . 
She afforded them a new interest . 
A young man in the uniform of an ambulance surgeon was kneeling beside the mud stained figure , and a police officer was standing over both . 
Oh ! gasped Miss Forbes . 
The young doctor heard her , and looking up , scowled reprovingly . 
Seeing she was a rarely beautiful young woman , he scowled less severely and then deliberately and expertly , again slapped Mr. Jerry Gaylor on the cheek . 
He watched the white mark made by his hand upon the purple skin , until the blood struggled slowly back to it , and then rose . 
He ignored every one but the police officer . 
There's nothing the matter with HIM , he said . 
The words came to Winthrop with such abrupt relief , bearing so tremendous a burden of gratitude , that his heart seemed to fail him . 
In his suddenly regained happiness , he unconsciously laughed . 
Are you sure ? he asked eagerly . 
I thought I'd killed him . 
The surgeon looked at Winthrop coldly . 
When they're like that , he explained with authority , you can't hurt 'em if you throw them off the Times Building . 
He condescended to recognize the crowd . 
You know where this man lives ? Voices answered that Mr. Gaylor lived at the corner , over the saloon . 
The voices showed a lack of sympathy . 
Old man Gaylor dead was a novelty old man Gaylor drunk was not . 
The doctor's prescription was simple and direct . 
Put him to bed till he sleeps it off , he ordered he swung himself to the step of the ambulance . 
Let him out , Steve , he called . 
There was the clang of a gong and the rattle of galloping hoofs . 
The police officer approached Winthrop . 
They tell me Jerry stepped in front of your car that you wasn't to blame . 
I'll get their names and where they live . 
Jerry might try to hold you up for damages . 
Thank you very much , said Winthrop . 
In case he needs anything , said Winthrop , and gave several bills to the soiled person , upon whom immediately Gaylor's other friends closed in . 
And I'll send my own doctor at once to attend to him . 
You'd better , said the soiled person morosely , or , he'll try to shake you down . 
The opinions as to what might be Mr. Gaylor's next move seemed unanimous . 
From the saloon below , Winthrop telephoned to the family doctor , and then rejoined Miss Forbes and the Police officer . 
The officer gave him the names of those citizens who had witnessed the accident , and in return received Winthrop's card . 
Not that it will go any further , said the officer reassuringly . 
They're all saying you acted all right and wanted to take him to Roosevelt . 
There's many , he added with sententious indignation , that knock a man down , and then run away without waiting to find out if they've hurted 'em or killed 'em . 
The speech for both Winthrop and Miss Forbes was equally embarrassing . 
You don't say ? exclaimed Winthrop nervously . 
He shook the policeman's hand . 
The handclasp was apparently satisfactory to that official , for he murmured Thank you , and stuck something in the lining of his helmet . 
Now , then ! Winthrop said briskly to Miss Forbes , I think we have done all we can . 
And we'll get away from this place a little faster than the law allows . 
Miss Forbes had seated herself in the car , and Winthrop was cranking up , when the same policeman , wearing an anxious countenance , touched him on the arm . 
There is a gentleman here , he said , wants to speak to you . 
He placed himself between the gentleman and Winthrop and whispered He's Izzy' Schwab , he's a Harlem police court lawyer and a Tammany man . 
He's after something , look out for him . 
Winthrop saw , smiling at him ingratiatingly , a slight , slim youth , with beady , rat like eyes , a low forehead , and a Hebraic nose . 
He wondered how it had been possible for Jerry Gaylor to so quickly secure counsel . 
But Mr. Schwab at once undeceived him . 
I could not ! growled Winthrop . 
The man wasn't hurt , the policeman will tell you so . 
It is not of the least public interest . 
With a deprecatory shrug , the young man smiled knowingly . 
Well , mebbe not the lady's name , he granted , but the name of the OTHER gentleman who was with you , when the accident occurred . 
His black , rat like eyes snapped . 
I think HIS name would be of public interest . 
To gain time Winthrop stepped into the driver's seat . 
He looked at Mr. Schwab steadily . 
There was no other gentleman , he said . 
Do you mean my chauffeur ? Mr. Schwab gave an appreciative chuckle . 
No , I don't mean your chauffeur , he mimicked . 
I mean , he declared theatrically in his best police court manner , the man who to day is hoping to beat Tammany , Ernest Peabody ! Winthrop stared at the youth insolently . 
I don't understand you , he said . 
Oh , of course not ! jeered Izzy Schwab . 
He moved excitedly from foot to foot . 
Then who WAS the other man , he demanded , the man who ran away ? Winthrop felt the blood rise to his face . 
That Miss Forbes should hear this rat of a man , sneering at the one she was to marry , made him hate Peabody . 
But he answered easily No one ran away . 
I told my chauffeur to go and call up an ambulance . 
That was the man you saw . 
As when leading on a witness to commit himself , Mr. Schwab smiled sympathetically . 
And he hasn't got back yet , he purred , has he ? No , and I'm not going to wait for him , returned Winthrop . 
He reached for the clutch , but Mr. Schwab jumped directly in front of the car . 
Was he looking for a telephone when he ran up the elevated steps ? he cried . 
He shook his fists vehemently . 
Oh , no , Mr. Winthrop , it won't do you make a good witness . 
I wouldn't ask for no better , but , you don't fool Izzy' Schwab . 
You're mistaken , I tell you , cried Winthrop desperately . 
He may look like like this man you speak of , but no Peabody was in this car . 
Izzy Schwab wrung his hands hysterically . 
No , he wasn't ! he cried , because he run away ! And left an old man in the street dead , for all he knowed nor cared neither . 
Yah ! shrieked the Tammany heeler . 
HIM a Reformer , yah ! Stand away from my car , shouted Winthrop , or you'll get hurt . 
Yah , you'd like to , wouldn't you ? returned Mr. Schwab , leaping , nimbly to one side . 
What do you think the Journal'll give me for that story , hey ? Ernest Peabody , the Reformer , Kills an Old Man , AND RUNS AWAY . 
And hiding his face , too ! I seen him . 
Read the extras , that's all , he taunted . 
Mr. Schwab , fearing bodily injury , backed precipitately behind the policeman . 
Come here , commanded Winthrop softly . 
That story , said Winthrop , dropping his voice to a low whisper , is worth a damn sight more to you than twenty thousand votes . 
You take a spin with me up Riverside Drive where we can talk . 
Maybe you and I can make a little business . 
It was apparent that Mr. Schwab was willing to arbitrate . 
They were grinning with wonder and envy , and as the great car shook itself , and ran easily forward , Mr. Schwab leaned back and carelessly waved his hand . 
But his mind did not waver from the purpose of his ride . 
He was not one to be cajoled with fur rugs and glittering brass . 
Well , Mr. Winthrop , he began briskly . 
You want to say something ? You must be quick every minute's money . 
How did you know MY name ? asked Winthrop . 
The card you gave the police officer I see , said Winthrop . 
At that hour Riverside Drive was empty , and after a gasp of relief , Mr. Schwab resumed the attack . 
Now , then , he said sharply , don't go any further . 
What is this you want to talk about ? How much will the Journal give you for this story of yours ? asked Winthrop . 
Because , said Winthrop , I think I could offer you something better . 
You mean , said the police court lawyer cautiously , you will make it worth my while not to tell the truth about what I saw ? Exactly , said Winthrop . 
That's all ! Stop the car , cried Mr. Schwab . 
His eyes glistened with wicked satisfaction . 
Stop the car ? demanded Winthrop , what do you mean ? I mean , said Mr. Schwab dramatically , that I've got you where I want you , thank you . 
You have killed Peabody dead as a cigar butt ! Now I can tell them how his friends tried to bribe me . 
They were passing Grant's Tomb , and the car was moving at a speed that Mr. Schwab recognized was in excess of the speed limit . 
To Izzy Schwab it seemed to scorn the earth , to proceed by leaps and jumps . 
But , what added even more to his mental discomfiture was , that Winthrop should turn , and slowly and familiarly wink at him . 
As through the window of an express train , Mr. Schwab saw the white front of Claremont , and beyond it the broad sweep of the Hudson . 
And , then , without decreasing its speed , the car like a great bird , swept down a hill , shot under a bridge , and into a partly paved street . 
Mr. Schwab already was two miles from his own bailiwick . 
Yes , asked Winthrop , WHAT will you do ? On one side was a high steep bank , on the other many trees , and through them below , the river . 
But there were no houses , and at half past eight in the morning those who later drive upon the boulevard were still in bed . 
WHAT will you do ? repeated Winthrop . 
Miss Forbes , apparently as much interested in Mr. Schwab's answer as Winthrop , leaned forward . 
Winthrop raised his voice above the whir of flying wheels , the rushing wind and scattering pebbles . 
I asked you into this car , he shouted , because I meant to keep you in it until I had you where you couldn't do any mischief . 
I told you I'd give you something better than the Journal would give you , and I am going to give you a happy day in the country . 
We're now on our way to this lady's house . 
If you jump out at this speed , you will break your neck . 
Yah ! you can't ! shrieked Mr. Schwab . 
You can't do it ! The madness of the flying engines had got upon his nerves . 
Their poison was surging in his veins . 
He knew he had only to touch his elbow against the elbow of Winthrop , and he could throw the three of them into eternity . 
He was travelling on air , uplifted , defiant , carried beyond himself . 
I can't do what ? asked Winthrop . 
The words reached Schwab from an immeasurable distance , as from another planet , a calm , humdrum planet on which events moved in commonplace , orderly array . 
For a mile before him stretched an empty road . 
And , beside him in the car , with arms folded calmly on the wheel there glared at him a grim , alert young man . 
I can't do what ? growled the young man . 
A feeling of great loneliness fell upon Izzy Schwab . 
When I asked you how you knew my name , said the young man , I thought you knew me as having won some races in Florida last winter . 
This is the car that won . 
I thought maybe you might have heard of me when I was captain of a football team at a university . 
Do you wish to get down ? No , shrieked Schwab , I won't ! He turned appealingly to the young lady . 
You're a witness , he cried . 
If he assaults me , he's liable . 
Mr. Schwab having instantly planned on reaching Yonkers , to leap from the car into the arms of the village constable , with suspicious alacrity , assented . 
The young man regarded him doubtfully . 
I'm afraid I'll have to show you , said the young man . 
He laid two fingers on Mr. Schwab's wrist looking at him , as he did so , steadily and thoughtfully , like a physician feeling a pulse . 
When he had seen policemen twist steel nippers on the wrists of prisoners , he had thought , when the prisoners shrieked and writhed , they were acting . 
He now knew they were not . 
Now , will you promise ? demanded the grim young man . 
Yes , gasped Mr. Schwab . 
He saw the beautiful young lady regarding him kindly , compassionately with just a suspicion of a smile . 
Mr. Schwab instantly scrambled to safety over the front seat into the body of the car . 
Miss Forbes made way for the prisoner beside her and he sank back with a nervous , apologetic sigh . 
The alert young man was quick to follow the lead of the lady . 
You'll find caps and goggles in the boot , Schwab , he said hospitably . 
You had better put them on . 
We are going rather fast now . 
He extended a magnificent case of pigskin , that bloomed with fat black cigars . 
Try one of these , said the hospitable young man . 
The emotions that swept Mr. Schwab he found difficult to pursue , but he raised his hat to the lady . 
May I , Miss ? he said . 
Certainly , said the lady . 
The young lady leaned toward him with a book in a leather cover . 
She placed her finger on a twisting red line that trickled through a page of type . 
We're just here , said the young lady , and we ought to reach home , which is just about there , in an hour . 
I see , said Schwab . 
But all he saw was a finger in a white glove , and long eyelashes tangled in a gray veil . 
Schwab knew the names as belonging to down town streets , and up town clubs . 
Those bicycle cops , he said confidentially to Miss Forbes , are too chesty . 
The car turned in between stone pillars , and under an arch of red and golden leaves , and swept up a long avenue to a house of innumerable roofs . 
Lounging before an open fire in the hall were a number of young men , who welcomed Winthrop delightedly and , to all of whom Mr. Schwab was formally presented . 
But Izzy Schwab did not care . 
The slave in brass buttons was proffering him ivory backed hair brushes , and obsequiously removing the dust from his coat collar . 
Mr. Schwab explained to him that he was not dressed for automobiling , as Mr. Winthrop had invited him quite informally . 
The man was most charmingly sympathetic . 
And when he returned to the hall every one received him with the most genial , friendly interest . 
Would he play golf , or tennis , or pool , or walk over the farm , or just look on ? It seemed the wish of each to be his escort . 
Never had he been so popular . 
He said he would just look on . 
It was always a great day in the life of Izzy Schwab . 
Mr. Schwab had learned the game in the cellars of Eighth Avenue at two and a half cents a cue , and now , even in Columbus Circle he was a star . 
So , before the sun had set Mr. Forbes , who at pool rather fancied himself , was seventy five dollars poorer , and Mr. Schwab just that much to the good . 
At six o'clock Mr. Schwab led Winthrop into the big library and asked for his ticket of leave . 
They'll be counting the votes soon , he begged . 
I can't do no harm now , and I don't mean to . 
I didn't see nothing , and I won't say nothing . 
But it's election night , and and I just GOT to be on Broadway . 
Right , said Winthrop , I'll have a car take you in , and if you will accept this small check No ! roared Izzy Schwab . 
Afterward he wondered how he came to do it . 
You've give me a good time , Mr. Winthrop . 
You've treated me fine , all the gentlemen have treated me nice . 
I'm not a blackmailer , Mr. Winthrop . 
Mr. Schwab's voice shook slightly . 
Nonsense , Schwab , you didn't let me finish , said Winthrop , I'm likely to need a lawyer any time this is a retaining fee . 
Suppose I exceed the speed limit I'm liable to do that You bet you are ! exclaimed Mr. Schwab violently . 
You can count on me , he vowed , and your friends too , and the ladies , he added gallantly . 
If ever the ladies want to get bail , tell 'em to telephone for Izzy' Schwab . 
Of course , he said reluctantly , if it's a retaining fee But when he read the face of the check he exclaimed in protest . 
All of election day since her arrival in Winthrop's car , Miss Forbes had kept to herself . 
The others thought she was concerned over the possible result of the election , and did not want to disturb them by her anxiety . 
Winthrop , thinking the presence of Schwab embarrassed her , recalling as it did Peabody's unfortunate conduct of the morning , blamed himself for bringing Schwab to the house . 
But he need not have distressed himself . 
Miss Forbes was thinking neither of Schwab nor Peabody , nor was she worried or embarrassed . 
On the contrary , she was completely happy . 
She had , as she supposed , loved him , because he was earnest , masterful , intent of purpose . 
His had seemed a fine character . 
She was glad Peabody was ambitious . 
She was ambitious for him . 
She was glad to have him consult her on those questions of local government , to listen to his fierce , contemptuous abuse of Tammany . 
And yet early in their engagement she had missed something , something she had never known , but which she felt sure should exist . 
But long before Winthrop returned from his trip round the world , in her meetings with the man she was to marry , she had begun to find that there was something lacking . 
And Winthrop had shown her that this something lacking was the one thing needful . 
When Winthrop had gone abroad he was only one of her brother's several charming friends . 
One of the amusing merry youths who came and went in the house as freely as Sam himself . 
Now , after two years' absence , he refused to be placed in that category . 
He rebelled on the first night of his return . 
But he showed her what in her intercourse with Peabody was lacking . 
At first she wished Peabody could find time to be as fond of her , as foolishly fond of her , as was Winthrop . 
But she realized that this was unreasonable . 
Winthrop was just a hot headed impressionable boy , Peabody was a man doing a man's work . 
And then she found that week after week she became more difficult to please . 
Other things in which she wished Peabody might be more like Winthrop , obtruded themselves . 
Little things which she was ashamed to notice , but which rankled and big things , such as consideration for others , and a sense of humor , and not talking of himself . 
Since this campaign began , at times she had felt that if Peabody said I once again , she must scream . 
And now , at a stroke , the whole fabric of self deception fell from her . 
It was not that she saw Peabody so differently , but that she saw herself and her own heart , and where it lay . 
And she knew that Billy Winthrop , gentle , joking , selfish only in his love for her , held it in his two strong hands . 
She was conscious only that a great weight had been lifted . 
That her blood was flowing again , leaping , beating , dancing through her body . 
It seemed as though she could not too quickly tell Winthrop . 
For both of them she had lost out of their lives many days . 
She had risked losing him for always . 
Her only thought was to make up to him and to herself the wasted time . 
It was after dinner , and the members of the house party were scattered between the billiard room and the piano . 
Sam Forbes returned from the telephone . 
Tammany , he announced , concedes the election of Jerome by forty thousand votes , and that he carries his ticket with him . 
Ernest Peabody is elected his Lieutenant Governor by a thousand votes . 
Ernest , he added , seems to have had a close call . 
There was a tremendous chorus of congratulations in the cause of Reform . 
They drank the health of Peabody . 
Peabody himself , on the telephone , informed Sam Forbes that a conference of the leaders would prevent his being present with them that evening . 
The enthusiasm for Reform perceptibly increased . 
An hour later Winthrop came over to Beatrice and held out his hand . 
I'm going to slip away , he said . 
Going away ! exclaimed Beatrice . 
Her voice showed such apparently acute concern that Winthrop wondered how the best of women could be so deceitful , even to be polite . 
I promised some men , he stammered , to drive them down town to see the crowds . 
It's far too late for that , she said . 
Tell me the real reason . 
Winthrop turned away his eyes . 
Oh ! the real reason , he said gravely , is the same old reason , the one I'm not allowed to talk about . 
He stood for a moment staring moodily at the floor , and then dropped into a chair beside her . 
And , I believe , I've not told you , he went on , that on Wednesday I'm running away for good , that is , for a year or two . 
I've made all the fight I can and I lose , and there is no use in my staying on here to well to suffer , that is the plain English of it . 
So , he continued briskly , I won't be here for the ceremony , and this is good by' as well as good night . 
Where are you going for a year ? asked Miss Forbes . 
Her voice now showed no concern . 
It even sounded as though she did not take his news seriously , as though as to his movements she was possessed of a knowledge superior to his own . 
He tried to speak in matter of fact tones . 
To Uganda ! he said . 
To Uganda ? repeated Miss Forbes . 
Where is Uganda ? It is in East Africa I had bad luck there last trip , but now I know the country better , and I ought to get some good shooting . 
Miss Forbes appeared indifferently incredulous . 
In her eyes there was a look of radiant happiness . 
It rendered them bewilderingly beautiful . 
On Wednesday , she said . 
Won't you come and see us again before you sail for Uganda ? Winthrop hesitated . 
I'll stop in and say good by' to your mother if she's in town , and to thank her . 
She's been awfully good to me . 
But you I really would rather not see you again . 
You understand , or rather , you don't understand , and , he added vehemently , you never will understand . 
He stood looking down at her miserably . 
On the driveway outside there was a crunching on the gravel of heavy wheels and an aurora borealis of lights . 
There's your car , said Miss Forbes . 
I'll go out and see you off . 
You're very good , muttered Winthrop . 
This parting from her was the great moment in his life , and although she must know that , she seemed to be making it unnecessarily hard for him . 
Instead of walking through the hall where the others were gathered , she led him out through one of the French windows upon the terrace , and along it to the steps . 
When she saw the chauffeur standing by the car , she stopped . 
I thought you were going alone , she said . 
I am , answered Winthrop . 
It's not Fred that's Sam's chauffeur he only brought the car around . 
The man handed Winthrop his coat and cap , and left them , and Winthrop seated himself at the wheel . 
She stood above him on the top step . 
In the evening gown of lace and silver she looked a part of the moonlight night . 
For each of them the moment had arrived . 
Like a swimmer standing on the bank gathering courage for the plunge , Miss Forbes gave a trembling , shivering sigh . 
You're cold , said Winthrop , gently . 
It isn't that , said the girl . 
Have you an extra coat ? It isn't cold enough for I meant for me , stammered the girl in a frightened voice . 
I thought perhaps you would take me a little way , and bring me back . 
At first the young man did not answer , but sat staring in front of him , then , he said simply It's awfully good of you , Beatrice . 
It was a wonderful autumn night , moonlight , cold , clear and brilliant . 
She stepped in beside him and wrapped herself in one of his great coats . 
They started swiftly down the avenue of trees . 
No , not fast , begged the girl , I want to talk to you . 
At the highway Winthrop hesitated . 
It lay before them arched with great and ancient elms below , the Hudson glittered and rippled in the moonlight . 
Which way do you want to go ? said Winthrop . 
His voice was very grateful , very humble . 
The girl did not answer . 
There was a long , long pause . 
Then he turned and looked at her and saw her smiling at him with that light in her eyes that never was on land or sea . 
To Uganda , said the girl . 
