He was born at Salem , Mass . 
, on July th , , son of a sea captain . 
He led there a shy and rather sombre life of few artistic encouragements , yet not wholly uncongenial , his moody , intensely meditative temperament being considered . 
Its colours and shadows are marvelously reflected in his Twice Told Tales and other short stories , the product of his first literary period . 
Nathaniel Hawthorne died at Plymouth , New Hampshire , on May th , . 
, Doctor Grimshawe's Secret , with Preface and Notes by Julian Hawthorne , . 
Works in volumes , in volumes , with introductory notes by Lathrop , Riverside Edition , . 
THE CUSTOM HOUSE CHAPTER I. THE PRISON DOOR CHAPTER II . 
THE MARKET PLACE CHAPTER III . 
THE INTERVIEW CHAPTER V. HESTER AT HER NEEDLE CHAPTER VI . 
THE GOVERNOR'S HALL CHAPTER VIII . 
THE ELF CHILD AND THE MINISTER CHAPTER IX . 
THE LEECH CHAPTER X. THE LEECH AND HIS PATIENT CHAPTER XI . 
THE INTERIOR OF A HEART CHAPTER XII . 
THE MINISTER'S VIGIL CHAPTER XIII . 
ANOTHER VIEW OF HESTER CHAPTER XIV . 
HESTER AND THE PHYSICIAN CHAPTER XV . 
HESTER AND PEARL CHAPTER XVI . 
A FOREST WALK CHAPTER XVII . 
THE PASTOR AND HIS PARISHIONER CHAPTER XVIII . 
A FLOOD OF SUNSHINE CHAPTER XIX . 
THE CHILD AT THE BROOK SIDE CHAPTER XX . 
THE MINISTER IN A MAZE CHAPTER XXI . 
THE NEW ENGLAND HOLIDAY CHAPTER XXII . 
THE REVELATION OF THE SCARLET LETTER CHAPTER XXIV . 
The example of the famous P. P. , Clerk of this Parish , was never more faithfully followed . 
It is scarcely decorous , however , to speak all , even where we speak impersonally . 
To this extent , and within these limits , an author , methinks , may be autobiographical , without violating either the reader's rights or his own . 
In some months of the year , however , there often chances a forenoon when affairs move onward with a livelier tread . 
Another figure in the scene is the outward bound sailor , in quest of a protection or the recently arrived one , pale and feeble , seeking a passport to the hospital . 
These old gentlemen seated , like Matthew at the receipt of custom , but not very liable to be summoned thence , like him , for apostolic errands were Custom House officers . 
A tin pipe ascends through the ceiling , and forms a medium of vocal communication with other parts of be edifice . 
But now , should you go thither to seek him , you would inquire in vain for the Locofoco Surveyor . 
The besom of reform hath swept him out of office , and a worthier successor wears his dignity and pockets his emoluments . 
The sentiment is probably assignable to the deep and aged roots which my family has stuck into the soil . 
In part , therefore , the attachment which I speak of is the mere sensuous sympathy of dust for dust . 
Few of my countrymen can know what it is nor , as frequent transplantation is perhaps better for the stock , need they consider it desirable to know . 
But the sentiment has likewise its moral quality . 
The figure of that first ancestor , invested by family tradition with a dim and dusky grandeur , was present to my boyish imagination as far back as I can remember . 
It still haunts me , and induces a sort of home feeling with the past , which I scarcely claim in reference to the present phase of the town . 
He was a soldier , legislator , judge he was a ruler in the Church he had all the Puritanic traits , both good and evil . 
What is he ? murmurs one grey shadow of my forefathers to the other . 
Gradually , they have sunk almost out of sight as old houses , here and there about the streets , get covered half way to the eaves by the accumulation of new soil . 
It is not love but instinct . 
The spell survives , and just as powerfully as if the natal spot were an earthly paradise . 
So has it been in my case . 
Nevertheless , this very sentiment is an evidence that the connexion , which has become an unhealthy one , should at least be severed . 
My children have had other birth places , and , so far as their fortunes may be within my control , shall strike their roots into accustomed earth . 
The whereabouts of the Oldest Inhabitant was at once settled when I looked at them . 
Thus , on taking charge off my department , I found few but aged men . 
Though by no means less liable than their fellow men to age and infirmity , they had evidently some talisman or other that kept death at bay . 
I must plead guilty to the charge of abbreviating the official breath of more than one of these venerable servants of the republic . 
Neither the front nor the back entrance of the Custom House opens on the road to Paradise . 
The greater part of my officers were Whigs . 
It was plain enough to discern that the old fellows dreaded some such discourtesy at my hands . 
I knew it , too , but could never quite find in my heart to act upon the knowledge . 
The discovery was soon made , I imagine , that the new Surveyor had no great harm in him . 
Unless people are more than commonly disagreeable , it is my foolish habit to contract a kindness for them . 
In one case , however , it is real sunshine in the other , it more resembles the phosphorescent glow of decaying wood . 
It would be sad injustice , the reader must understand , to represent all my excellent old friends as in their dotage . 
Then , moreover , the white locks of age were sometimes found to be the thatch of an intellectual tenement in good repair . 
Here , one would suppose , might have been sorrow enough to imbue the sunniest disposition through and through with a sable tinge . 
Not so with our old Inspector One brief sigh sufficed to carry off the entire burden of these dismal reminiscences . 
I used to watch and study this patriarchal personage with , I think , livelier curiosity than any other form of humanity there presented to my notice . 
He was , in truth , a rare phenomenon so perfect , in one point of view so shallow , so delusive , so impalpable such an absolute nonentity , in every other . 
His gourmandism was a highly agreeable trait and to hear him talk of roast meat was as appetizing as a pickle or an oyster . 
His reminiscences of good cheer , however ancient the date of the actual banquet , seemed to bring the savour of pig or turkey under one's very nostrils . 
I have heard him smack his lips over dinners , every guest at which , except himself , had long been food for worms . 
Most persons , owing to causes which I may not have space to hint at , suffer moral detriment from this peculiar mode of life . 
The step was palsied now , that had been foremost in the charge . 
His countenance , in this repose , was mild and kindly . 
The closer you penetrated to the substance of his mind , the sounder it appeared . 
When no longer called upon to speak or listen either of which operations cost him an evident effort his face would briefly subside into its former not uncheerful quietude . 
It was not painful to behold this look for , though dim , it had not the imbecility of decaying age . 
The framework of his nature , originally strong and massive , was not yet crumpled into ruin . 
It was marked with the noble and heroic qualities which showed it to be not a mere accident , but of good right , that he had won a distinguished name . 
Weight , solidity , firmness this was the expression of his repose , even in such decay as had crept untimely over him at the period of which I speak . 
And , in so intense a moment his demeanour would have still been calm . 
Such an exhibition , however , was but to be pictured in fancy not to be anticipated , nor desired . 
I have not known the man to whose innate kindliness I would more confidently make an appeal . 
Many characteristics and those , too , which contribute not the least forcibly to impart resemblance in a sketch must have vanished , or been obscured , before I met the General . 
Still , even in respect of grace and beauty , there were points well worth noting . 
A ray of humour , now and then , would make its way through the veil of dim obstruction , and glimmer pleasantly upon our faces . 
A trait of native elegance , seldom seen in the masculine character after childhood or early youth , was shown in the General's fondness for the sight and fragrance of flowers . 
An old soldier might be supposed to prize only the bloody laurel on his brow but here was one who seemed to have a young girl's appreciation of the floral tribe . 
It might be that he lived a more real life within his thoughts than amid the unappropriate environment of the Collector's office . 
There was one thing that much aided me in renewing and re creating the stalwart soldier of the Niagara frontier the man of true and simple energy . 
The accidents of my life have often afforded me this advantage , but never with more fulness and variety than during my continuance in office . 
There was one man , especially , the observation of whose character gave me a new idea of talent . 
In my contemplation , he stood as the ideal of his class . 
Thus , by an inevitable necessity , as a magnet attracts steel filings , so did our man of business draw to himself the difficulties which everybody met with . 
The merchants valued him not less than we , his esoteric friends . 
Here , in a word and it is a rare instance in my life I had met with a person thoroughly adapted to the situation which he held . 
Such were some of the people with whom I now found myself connected . 
Even the old Inspector was desirable , as a change of diet , to a man who had known Alcott . 
Literature , its exertions and objects , were now of little moment in my regard . 
I cared not at this period for books they were apart from me . 
A gift , a faculty , if it had not been departed , was suspended and inanimate within me . 
But I never considered it as other than a transitory life . 
Meanwhile , there I was , a Surveyor of the Revenue and , so far as I have been able to understand , as good a Surveyor as need be . 
, may , at any time , be a man of affairs , if he will only choose to give himself the trouble . 
looked very much like poetry used now and then to speak to me of books , as matters with which I might possibly be conversant . 
This was my all of lettered intercourse and it was quite sufficient for my necessities . 
No longer seeking or caring that my name should be blasoned abroad on title pages , I smiled to think that it had now another kind of vogue . 
But the past was not dead . 
Once in a great while , the thoughts that had seemed so vital and so active , yet had been put to rest so quietly , revived again . 
In the second storey of the Custom House there is a large room , in which the brick work and naked rafters have never been covered with panelling and plaster . 
At one end of the room , in a recess , were a number of barrels piled one upon another , containing bundles of official documents . 
Large quantities of similar rubbish lay lumbering the floor . 
Yet not altogether worthless , perhaps , as materials of local history . 
But , one idle and rainy day , it was my fortune to make a discovery of some little interest . 
This envelope had the air of an official record of some period long past , when clerks engrossed their stiff and formal chirography on more substantial materials than at present . 
Peter's Church , during the renewal of that edifice . 
They were documents , in short , not official , but of a private nature , or , at least , written in his private capacity , and apparently with his own hand . 
On the transfer of the archives to Halifax , this package , proving to be of no public concern , was left behind , and had remained ever since unopened . 
These supplied material for petty activity to a mind that would otherwise have been eaten up with rust . 
A portion of his facts , by the by , did me good service in the preparation of the article entitled MAIN STREET , included in the present volume . 
Meanwhile , they shall be at the command of any gentleman , inclined and competent , to take the unprofitable labour off my hands . 
As a final disposition I contemplate depositing them with the Essex Historical Society . 
gives evidence of a now forgotten art , not to be discovered even by the process of picking out the threads . 
It was the capital letter A. By an accurate measurement , each limb proved to be precisely three inches and a quarter in length . 
I saw little hope of solving . 
And yet it strangely interested me . 
My eyes fastened themselves upon the old scarlet letter , and would not be turned aside . 
I shuddered , and involuntarily let it fall upon the floor . 
In the absorbing contemplation of the scarlet letter , I had hitherto neglected to examine a small roll of dingy paper , around which it had been twisted . 
This I now opened , and had the satisfaction to find recorded by the old Surveyor's pen , a reasonably complete explanation of the whole affair . 
She had flourished during the period between the early days of Massachusetts and the close of the seventeenth century . 
On the contrary , I have allowed myself , as to such points , nearly , or altogether , as much license as if the facts had been entirely of my own invention . 
What I contend for is the authenticity of the outline . 
This incident recalled my mind , in some degree , to its old track . 
There seemed to be here the groundwork of a tale . 
In his port was the dignity of one who had borne His Majesty's commission , and who was therefore illuminated by a ray of the splendour that shone so dazzlingly about the throne . 
With his own ghostly hand , the obscurely seen , but majestic , figure had imparted to me the scarlet symbol and the little roll of explanatory manuscript . 
You will shortly need it for it is not in your days as it was in mine , when a man's office was a life lease , and oftentimes an heirloom . 
On Hester Prynne's story , therefore , I bestowed much thought . 
Great were the weariness and annoyance of the old Inspector and the Weighers and Gaugers , whose slumbers were disturbed by the unmercifully lengthened tramp of my passing and returning footsteps . 
Remembering their own former habits , they used to say that the Surveyor was walking the quarter deck . 
They probably fancied that my sole object and , indeed , the sole object for which a sane man could ever put himself into voluntary motion was to get an appetite for dinner . 
And , to say the truth , an appetite , sharpened by the east wind that generally blew along the passage , was the only valuable result of so much indefatigable exercise . 
My imagination was a tarnished mirror . 
It would not reflect , or only with miserable dimness , the figures with which I did my best to people it . 
The characters of the narrative would not be warmed and rendered malleable by any heat that I could kindle at my intellectual forge . 
What have you to do with us ? that expression seemed to say . 
The little power you might have once possessed over the tribe of unrealities is gone You have bartered it for a pittance of the public gold . 
Go then , and earn your wages In short , the almost torpid creatures of my own fancy twitted me with imbecility , and not without fair occasion . 
It was not merely during the three hours and a half which Uncle Sam claimed as his share of my daily life that this wretched numbness held possession of me . 
The same torpor , as regarded the capacity for intellectual effort , accompanied me home , and weighed upon me in the chamber which I most absurdly termed my study . 
If the imaginative faculty refused to act at such an hour , it might well be deemed a hopeless case . 
Nothing is too small or too trifling to undergo this change , and acquire dignity thereby . 
Ghosts might enter here without affrighting us . 
The somewhat dim coal fire has an essential Influence in producing the effect which I would describe . 
It throws its unobtrusive tinge throughout the room , with a faint ruddiness upon the walls and ceiling , and a reflected gleam upon the polish of the furniture . 
It converts them from snow images into men and women . 
An entire class of susceptibilities , and a gift connected with them of no great richness or value , but the best I had was gone from me . 
It is my belief , however , that had I attempted a different order of composition , my faculties would not have been found so pointless and inefficacious . 
Or I might readily have found a more serious task . 
The page of life that was spread out before me seemed dull and commonplace only because I had not fathomed its deeper import . 
These perceptions had come too late . 
At the Instant , I was only conscious that what would have been a pleasure once was now a hopeless toil . 
There was no occasion to make much moan about this state of affairs . 
I had ceased to be a writer of tolerably poor tales and essays , and had become a tolerably good Surveyor of the Customs . 
In some other form , perhaps , I may hereafter develop these effects . 
He loses , in an extent proportioned to the weakness or force of his original nature , the capability of self support . 
If he possesses an unusual share of native energy , or the enervating magic of place do not operate too long upon him , his forfeited powers may be redeemable . 
The ejected officer fortunate in the unkindly shove that sends him forth betimes , to struggle amid a struggling world may return to himself , and become all that he has ever been . 
Conscious of his own infirmity that his tempered steel and elasticity are lost he for ever afterwards looks wistfully about him in quest of support external to himself . 
This faith , more than anything else , steals the pith and availability out of whatever enterprise he may dream of undertaking . 
Uncle Sam's gold meaning no disrespect to the worthy old gentleman has , in this respect , a quality of enchantment like that of the devil's wages . 
Here was a fine prospect in the distance . 
Not that the Surveyor brought the lesson home to himself , or admitted that he could be so utterly undone , either by continuance in office or ejectment . 
Yet my reflections were not the most comfortable . 
I endeavoured to calculate how much longer I could stay in the Custom House , and yet go forth a man . 
Providence had meditated better things for me than I could possibly imagine for myself . 
A remarkable event of the third year of my Surveyorship to adopt the tone of P. P. was the election of General Taylor to the Presidency . 
It is essential , in order to a complete estimate of the advantages of official life , to view the incumbent at the in coming of a hostile administration . 
But the long habit of victory has made them generous . 
In short , unpleasant as was my predicament , at best , I saw much reason to congratulate myself that I was on the losing side rather than the triumphant one . 
In my particular case the consolatory topics were close at hand , and , indeed , had suggested themselves to my meditations a considerable time before it was requisite to use them . 
, the point might be looked upon as settled . 
So much for my figurative self . 
Now it was that the lucubrations of my ancient predecessor , Mr. Surveyor Pue , came into play . 
Rusty through long idleness , some little space was requisite before my intellectual machinery could be brought to work upon the tale with an effect in any degree satisfactory . 
This uncaptivating effect is perhaps due to the period of hardly accomplished revolution , and still seething turmoil , in which the story shaped itself . 
Henceforth it ceases to be a reality of my life I am a citizen of somewhere else . 
I shall do better amongst other faces and these familiar ones , it need hardly be said , will do just as well without me . 
The rust on the ponderous iron work of its oaken door looked more antique than anything else in the New World . 
Like all that pertains to crime , it seemed never to have known a youthful era . 
It could have betokened nothing short of the anticipated execution of some rioted culprit , on whom the sentence of a legal tribunal had but confirmed the verdict of public sentiment . 
But , in that early severity of the Puritan character , an inference of this kind could not so indubitably be drawn . 
It might be that a sluggish bond servant , or an undutiful child , whom his parents had given over to the civil authority , was to be corrected at the whipping post . 
It might be , too , that a witch , like old Mistress Hibbins , the bitter tempered widow of the magistrate , was to die upon the gallows . 
Meagre , indeed , and cold , was the sympathy that a transgressor might look for , from such bystanders , at the scaffold . 
They were her countrywomen and the beef and ale of their native land , with a moral diet not a whit more refined , entered largely into their composition . 
Goodwives , said a hard featured dame of fifty , I'll tell ye a piece of my mind . 
The magistrates are God fearing gentlemen , but merciful overmuch that is a truth , added a third autumnal matron . 
At the very least , they should have put the brand of a hot iron on Hester Prynne's forehead . 
Madame Hester would have winced at that , I warrant me . 
This woman has brought shame upon us all , and ought to die Is there not law for it ? Truly there is , both in the Scripture and the statute book . 
The young woman was tall , with a figure of perfect elegance on a large scale . 
And never had Hester Prynne appeared more ladylike , in the antique interpretation of the term , than as she issued from the prison . 
It may be true that , to a sensitive observer , there was some thing exquisitely painful in it . 
It had the effect of a spell , taking her out of the ordinary relations with humanity , and enclosing her in a sphere by herself . 
The grim beadle now made a gesture with his staff . 
Make way , good people make way , in the King's name ! cried he . 
Preceded by the beadle , and attended by an irregular procession of stern browed men and unkindly visaged women , Hester Prynne set forth towards the place appointed for her punishment . 
It was no great distance , in those days , from the prison door to the market place . 
It stood nearly beneath the eaves of Boston's earliest church , and appeared to be a fixture there . 
The very ideal of ignominy was embodied and made manifest in this contrivance of wood and iron . 
Knowing well her part , she ascended a flight of wooden steps , and was thus displayed to the surrounding multitude , at about the height of a man's shoulders above the street . 
The witnesses of Hester Prynne's disgrace had not yet passed beyond their simplicity . 
Accordingly , the crowd was sombre and grave . 
The unhappy culprit sustained herself as best a woman might , under the heavy weight of a thousand unrelenting eyes , all fastened upon her , and concentrated at her bosom . 
It was almost intolerable to be borne . 
Possibly , it was an instinctive device of her spirit to relieve itself by the exhibition of these phantasmagoric forms , from the cruel weight and hardness of the reality . 
She saw her own face , glowing with girlish beauty , and illuminating all the interior of the dusky mirror in which she had been wont to gaze at it . 
Yet those same bleared optics had a strange , penetrating power , when it was their owner's purpose to read the human soul . 
This figure of tile study and the cloister , as Hester Prynne's womanly fancy failed not to recall , was slightly deformed , with the left shoulder a trifle higher than the right . 
Yes these were her realities all else had vanished ! III . 
By the Indian's side , and evidently sustaining a companionship with him , stood a white man , clad in a strange disarray of civilized and savage costume . 
He was small in stature , with a furrowed visage , which as yet could hardly be termed aged . 
Very soon , however , his look became keen and penetrative . 
A writhing horror twisted itself across his features , like a snake gliding swiftly over them , and making one little pause , with all its wreathed intervolutions in open sight . 
After a brief space , the convulsion grew almost imperceptible , and finally subsided into the depths of his nature . 
She hath raised a great scandal , I promise you , in godly Master Dimmesdale's church . 
You say truly , replied the other I am a stranger , and have been a wanderer , sorely against my will . 
To this purpose he sent his wife before him , remaining himself to look after some necessary affairs . 
So learned a man as you speak of should have learned this too in his books . 
Madame Hester absolutely refuseth to speak , and the magistrates have laid their heads together in vain . 
Peradventure the guilty one stands looking on at this sad spectacle , unknown of man , and forgetting that God sees him . 
The learned man , observed the stranger with another smile , should come himself to look into the mystery . 
It behoves him well if he be still in life , responded the townsman . 
The penalty thereof is death . 
A wise sentence , remarked the stranger , gravely , bowing his head . 
Thus she will be a living sermon against sin , until the ignominious letter be engraved upon her tombstone . 
It irks me , nevertheless , that the partner of her iniquity should not at least , stand on the scaffold by her side . 
Dreadful as it was , she was conscious of a shelter in the presence of these thousand witnesses . 
It was better to stand thus , with so many betwixt him and her , than to greet him face to face they two alone . 
She fled for refuge , as it were , to the public exposure , and dreaded the moment when its protection should be withdrawn from her . 
Hearken unto me , Hester Prynne ! said the voice . 
It has already been noticed that directly over the platform on which Hester Prynne stood was a kind of balcony , or open gallery , appended to the meeting house . 
It was the place whence proclamations were wont to be made , amidst an assemblage of the magistracy , with all the ceremonial that attended such public observances in those days . 
Here , to witness the scene which we are describing , sat Governor Bellingham himself with four sergeants about his chair , bearing halberds , as a guard of honour . 
They were , doubtless , good men , just and sage . 
This last attribute , however , had been less carefully developed than his intellectual gifts , and was , in truth , rather a matter of shame than self congratulation with him . 
Truly , as I sought to convince him , the shame lay in the commission of the sin , and not in the showing of it forth . 
It behoves you therefore , to exhort her to repentance and to confession , as a proof and consequence thereof . 
His eloquence and religious fervour had already given the earnest of high eminence in his profession . 
The trying nature of his position drove the blood from his cheek , and made his lips tremulous . 
Speak to the woman , my brother , said Mr. Wilson . 
It is of moment to her soul , and , therefore , as the worshipful Governor says , momentous to thine own , ill whose charge hers is . 
Exhort her to confess the truth ! The Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale bent his head , silent prayer , as it seemed , and then came forward . 
Woman , transgress not beyond the limits of Heaven's mercy ! cried the Reverend Mr. Wilson , more harshly than before . 
That little babe hath been gifted with a voice , to second and confirm the counsel which thou hast heard . 
Speak out the name ! That , and thy repentance , may avail to take the scarlet letter off thy breast . 
Never , replied Hester Prynne , looking , not at Mr. Wilson , but into the deep and troubled eyes of the younger clergyman . 
It is too deeply branded . 
Ye cannot take it off . 
He now drew back with a long respiration . 
Hester Prynne , meanwhile , kept her place upon the pedestal of shame , with glazed eyes , and an air of weary indifference . 
In this state , the voice of the preacher thundered remorselessly , but unavailingly , upon her ears . 
With the same hard demeanour , she was led back to prison , and vanished from the public gaze within its iron clamped portal . 
It was whispered by those who peered after her that the scarlet letter threw a lurid gleam along the dark passage way of the interior . 
As night approached , it proving impossible to quell her insubordination by rebuke or threats of punishment , Master Brackett , the jailer , thought fit to introduce a physician . 
It now writhed in convulsions of pain , and was a forcible type , in its little frame , of the moral agony which Hester Prynne had borne throughout the day . 
His name was announced as Roger Chillingworth . 
Prithee , friend , leave me alone with my patient , said the practitioner . 
The stranger had entered the room with the characteristic quietude of the profession to which he announced himself as belonging . 
He examined the infant carefully , and then proceeded to unclasp a leathern case , which he took from beneath his dress . 
It appeared to contain medical preparations , one of which he mingled with a cup of water . 
Here , woman ! The child is yours she is none of mine neither will she recognise my voice or aspect as a father's . 
Administer this draught , therefore , with thine own hand . 
Hester repelled the offered medicine , at the same time gazing with strongly marked apprehension into his face . 
Wouldst thou avenge thyself on the innocent babe ? whispered she . 
Foolish woman ! responded the physician , half coldly , half soothingly . 
As she still hesitated , being , in fact , in no reasonable state of mind , he took the infant in his arms , and himself administered the draught . 
It soon proved its efficacy , and redeemed the leech's pledge . 
The physician , as he had a fair right to be termed , next bestowed his attention on the mother . 
Drink it ! It may be less soothing than a sinless conscience . 
That I cannot give thee . 
But it will calm the swell and heaving of thy passion , like oil thrown on the waves of a tempestuous sea . 
She looked also at her slumbering child . 
I have thought of death , said she have wished for it would even have prayed for it , were it fit that such as I should pray for anything . 
Yet , if death be in this cup , I bid thee think again , ere thou beholdest me quaff it . 
See ! it is even now at my lips . 
Drink , then , replied he , still with the same cold composure . 
He noticed her involuntary gesture , and smiled . 
The reason is not far to seek . 
It was my folly , and thy weakness . 
If sages were ever wise in their own behoof , I might have foreseen all this . 
I felt no love , nor feigned any . 
It was my folly ! I have said it . 
But , up to that epoch of my life , I had lived in vain . 
The world had been so cheerless ! My heart was a habitation large enough for many guests , but lonely and chill , and without a household fire . 
We have wronged each other , answered he . 
Mine was the first wrong , when I betrayed thy budding youth into a false and unnatural relation with my decay . 
Therefore , as a man who has not thought and philosophised in vain , I seek no vengeance , plot no evil against thee . 
Between thee and me , the scale hangs fairly balanced . 
But , Hester , the man lives who has wronged us both ! Who is he ? Ask me not ? replied Hester Prynne , looking firmly into his face . 
That thou shalt never know ! Never , sayest thou ? rejoined he , with a smile of dark and self relying intelligence . 
Thou mayest cover up thy secret from the prying multitude . 
But , as for me , I come to the inquest with other senses than they possess . 
I shall seek this man , as I have sought truth in books as I have sought gold in alchemy . 
There is a sympathy that will make me conscious of him . 
I shall see him tremble . 
I shall feel myself shudder , suddenly and unawares . 
Sooner or later , he must needs be mine . 
The eyes of the wrinkled scholar glowed so intensely upon her , that Hester Prynne clasped her hand over her heart , dreading lest he should read the secret there at once . 
Thou wilt not reveal his name ? Not the less he is mine , resumed he , with a look of confidence , as if destiny were at one with him . 
He bears no letter of infamy wrought into his garment , as thou dost , but I shall read it on his heart . 
Neither do thou imagine that I shall contrive aught against his life no , nor against his fame , if as I judge , he be a man of fair repute . 
Thou hast kept the secret of thy paramour . 
Keep , likewise , mine ! There are none in this land that know me . 
No matter whether of love or hate no matter whether of right or wrong ! Thou and thine , Hester Prynne , belong to me . 
My home is where thou art and where he is . 
But betray me not ! Wherefore dost thou desire it ? inquired Hester , shrinking , she hardly knew why , from this secret bond . 
It may be for other reasons . 
Enough , it is my purpose to live and die unknown . 
Let , therefore , thy husband be to the world as one already dead , and of whom no tidings shall ever come . 
Recognise me not , by word , by sign , by look ! Breathe not the secret , above all , to the man thou wottest of . 
Shouldst thou fail me in this , beware ! His fame , his position , his life will be in my hands . 
Beware ! I will keep thy secret , as I have his , said Hester . 
Swear it ! rejoined he . 
And she took the oath . 
No , not thine ! V. HESTER AT HER NEEDLE Hester Prynne's term of confinement was now at an end . 
She could no longer borrow from the future to help her through the present grief . 
And over her grave , the infamy that she must carry thither would be her only monument . 
Her sin , her ignominy , were the roots which she had struck into the soil . 
The chain that bound her here was of iron links , and galling to her inmost soul , but could never be broken . 
She barely looked the idea in the face , and hastened to bar it in its dungeon . 
What she compelled herself to believe what , finally , she reasoned upon as her motive for continuing a resident of New England was half a truth , and half a self delusion . 
Hester Prynne , therefore , did not flee . 
On the outskirts of the town , within the verge of the peninsula , but not in close vicinity to any other habitation , there was a small thatched cottage . 
It stood on the shore , looking across a basin of the sea at the forest covered hills , towards the west . 
A mystic shadow of suspicion immediately attached itself to the spot . 
Lonely as was Hester's situation , and without a friend on earth who dared to show himself , she , however , incurred no risk of want . 
She possessed an art that sufficed , even in a land that afforded comparatively little scope for its exercise , to supply food for her thriving infant and herself . 
It was the art , then , as now , almost the only one within a woman's grasp of needle work . 
Here , indeed , in the sable simplicity that generally characterised the Puritanic modes of dress , there might be an infrequent call for the finer productions of her handiwork . 
Baby linen for babies then wore robes of state afforded still another possibility of toil and emolument . 
By degrees , not very slowly , her handiwork became what would now be termed the fashion . 
Vanity , it may be , chose to mortify itself , by putting on , for ceremonials of pomp and state , the garments that had been wrought by her sinful hands . 
But it is not recorded that , in a single instance , her skill was called in to embroider the white veil which was to cover the pure blushes of a bride . 
The exception indicated the ever relentless vigour with which society frowned upon her sin . 
Hester sought not to acquire anything beyond a subsistence , of the plainest and most ascetic description , for herself , and a simple abundance for her child . 
Her own dress was of the coarsest materials and the most sombre hue , with only that one ornament the scarlet letter which it was her doom to wear . 
We may speak further of it hereafter . 
Much of the time , which she might readily have applied to the better efforts of her art , she employed in making coarse garments for the poor . 
Women derive a pleasure , incomprehensible to the other sex , from the delicate toil of the needle . 
To Hester Prynne it might have been a mode of expressing , and therefore soothing , the passion of her life . 
Like all other joys , she rejected it as sin . 
In this matter , Hester Prynne came to have a part to perform in the world . 
In all her intercourse with society , however , there was nothing that made her feel as if she belonged to it . 
These emotions , in fact , and its bitterest scorn besides , seemed to be the sole portion that she retained in the universal heart . 
The poor , as we have already said , whom she sought out to be the objects of her bounty , often reviled the hand that was stretched forth to succour them . 
Clergymen paused in the streets , to address words of exhortation , that brought a crowd , with its mingled grin and frown , around the poor , sinful woman . 
If she entered a church , trusting to share the Sabbath smile of the Universal Father , it was often her mishap to find herself the text of the discourse . 
But then , again , an accustomed eye had likewise its own anguish to inflict . 
Its cool stare of familiarity was intolerable . 
The next instant , back it all rushed again , with still a deeper throb of pain for , in that brief interval , she had sinned anew . 
She shuddered to believe , yet could not help believing , that it gave her a sympathetic knowledge of the hidden sin in other hearts . 
She was terror stricken by the revelations that were thus made . 
It perplexed , as well as shocked her , by the irreverent inopportuneness of the occasions that brought it into vivid action . 
What evil thing is at hand ? would Hester say to herself . 
And we must needs say it seared Hester's bosom so deeply , that perhaps there was more truth in the rumour than our modern incredulity may be inclined to admit . 
She knew that her deed had been evil she could have no faith , therefore , that its result would be good . 
Day after day she looked fearfully into the child's expanding nature , ever dreading to detect some dark and wild peculiarity that should correspond with the guiltiness to which she owed her being . 
Certainly there was no physical defect . 
But little Pearl was not clad in rustic weeds . 
And yet a russet gown , torn and soiled with the child's rude play , made a picture of her just as perfect . 
Her nature appeared to possess depth , too , as well as variety but or else Hester's fears deceived her it lacked reference and adaptation to the world into which she was born . 
The child could not be made amenable to rules . 
Above all , the warfare of Hester's spirit at that epoch was perpetuated in Pearl . 
They were now illuminated by the morning radiance of a young child's disposition , but , later in the day of earthly existence , might be prolific of the storm and whirlwind . 
The discipline of the family in those days was of a far more rigid kind than now . 
Hester Prynne , nevertheless , the loving mother of this one child , ran little risk of erring on the side of undue severity . 
Mindful , however , of her own errors and misfortunes , she early sought to impose a tender but strict control over the infant immortality that was committed to her charge . 
But the task was beyond her skill . 
Physical compulsion or restraint was effectual , of course , while it lasted . 
She seemed rather an airy sprite , which , after playing its fantastic sports for a little while upon the cottage floor , would flit away with a mocking smile . 
But Pearl's laugh , when she was caught , though full of merriment and music , made her mother more doubtful than before . 
Not seldom she would laugh anew , and louder than before , like a thing incapable and unintelligent of human sorrow . 
Yet Hester was hardly safe in confiding herself to that gusty tenderness it passed as suddenly as it came . 
Her only real comfort was when the child lay in the placidity of sleep . 
But this could never be . 
Pearl was a born outcast of the infantile world . 
An imp of evil , emblem and product of sin , she had no right among christened infants . 
Never since her release from prison had Hester met the public gaze without her . 
Pearl saw , and gazed intently , but never sought to make acquaintance . 
If spoken to , she would not speak again . 
Pearl felt the sentiment , and requited it with the bitterest hatred that can be supposed to rankle in a childish bosom . 
It appalled her , nevertheless , to discern here , again , a shadowy reflection of the evil that had existed in herself . 
All this enmity and passion had Pearl inherited , by inalienable right , out of Hester's heart . 
At home , within and around her mother's cottage , Pearl wanted not a wide and various circle of acquaintance . 
The spell of life went forth from her ever creative spirit , and communicated itself to a thousand objects , as a torch kindles a flame wherever it may be applied . 
Her one baby voice served a multitude of imaginary personages , old and young , to talk withal . 
It was like nothing so much as the phantasmagoric play of the northern lights . 
The singularity lay in the hostile feelings with which the child regarded all these offsprings of her own heart and mind . 
She never created a friend , but seemed always to be sowing broadcast the dragon's teeth , whence sprung a harvest of armed enemies , against whom she rushed to battle . 
One peculiarity of the child's deportment remains yet to be told . 
Again , as if her mother's agonised gesture were meant only to make sport for her , did little Pearl look into her eyes , and smile . 
From that epoch , except when the child was asleep , Hester had never felt a moment's safety not a moment's calm enjoyment of her . 
It was as if an evil spirit possessed the child , and had just then peeped forth in mockery . 
Many a time afterwards had Hester been tortured , though less vividly , by the same illusion . 
Hester's first motion had been to cover her bosom with her clasped hands . 
Child , what art thou ? cried the mother . 
Oh , I am your little Pearl ! answered the child . 
Art thou my child , in very truth ? asked Hester . 
Yes I am little Pearl ! repeated the child , continuing her antics . 
Do thou tell me ! Thy Heavenly Father sent thee ! answered Hester Prynne . 
But she said it with a hesitation that did not escape the acuteness of the child . 
Whether moved only by her ordinary freakishness , or because an evil spirit prompted her , she put up her small forefinger and touched the scarlet letter . 
He did not send me ! cried she , positively . 
I have no Heavenly Father ! Hush , Pearl , hush ! Thou must not talk so ! answered the mother . 
He sent us all into the world . 
He sent even me , thy mother . 
It is thou that must tell me ! But Hester could not resolve the query , using herself in a dismal labyrinth of doubt . 
Among those who promoted the design , Governor Bellingham was said to be one of the most busy . 
Little Pearl , of course , was her companion . 
There was fire in her and throughout her she seemed the unpremeditated offshoot of a passionate moment . 
She screamed and shouted , too , with a terrific volume of sound , which , doubtless , caused the hearts of the fugitives to quake within them . 
The victory accomplished , Pearl returned quietly to her mother , and looked up , smiling , into her face . 
Without further adventure , they reached the dwelling of Governor Bellingham . 
The brilliancy might have be fitted Aladdin's palace rather than the mansion of a grave old Puritan ruler . 
No , my little Pearl ! said her mother thou must gather thine own sunshine . 
During that term he was to be the property of his master , and as much a commodity of bargain and sale as an ox , or a joint stool . 
The serf wore the customary garb of serving men at that period , and long before , in the old hereditary halls of England . 
Is the worshipful Governor Bellingham within ? Inquired Hester . 
Yea , his honourable worship is within . 
But he hath a godly minister or two with him , and likewise a leech . 
Ye may not see his worship now . 
So the mother and little Pearl were admitted into the hall of entrance . 
At one extremity , this spacious room was lighted by the windows of the two towers , which formed a small recess on either side of the portal . 
On the wall hung a row of portraits , representing the forefathers of the Bellingham lineage , some with armour on their breasts , and others with stately ruffs and robes of peace . 
Mother , cried she , I see you here . 
In truth , she seemed absolutely hidden behind it . 
Pearl pointed upwards also , at a similar picture in the head piece smiling at her mother , with the elfish intelligence that was so familiar an expression on her small physiognomy . 
Come along , Pearl , said she , drawing her away , Come and look into this fair garden . 
It may be we shall see flowers there more beautiful ones than we find in the woods . 
Pearl , seeing the rose bushes , began to cry for a red rose , and would not be pacified . 
Hush , child hush ! said her mother , earnestly . 
Do not cry , dear little Pearl ! I hear voices in the garden . 
The Governor is coming , and gentlemen along with him . 
In fact , adown the vista of the garden avenue , a number of persons were seen approaching towards the house . 
The Governor , in advance of his visitors , ascended one or two steps , and , throwing open the leaves of the great hall window , found himself close to little Pearl . 
The shadow of the curtain fell on Hester Prynne , and partially concealed her . 
What have we here ? said Governor Bellingham , looking with surprise at the scarlet little figure before him . 
But how gat such a guest into my hall ? Ay , indeed ! cried good old Mr. Wilson . 
But that was in the old land . 
Governor Bellingham stepped through the window into the hall , followed by his three guests . 
Hester Prynne , said he , fixing his naturally stern regard on the wearer of the scarlet letter , there hath been much question concerning thee of late . 
Woman , it is thy badge of shame ! replied the stern magistrate . 
It is because of the stain which that letter indicates that we would transfer thy child to other hands . 
We will judge warily , said Bellingham , and look well what we are about to do . 
Good Master Wilson , I pray you , examine this Pearl since that is her name and see whether she hath had such Christian nurture as befits a child of her age . 
The old minister seated himself in an arm chair and made an effort to draw Pearl betwixt his knees . 
Old Roger Chillingworth , with a smile on his face , whispered something in the young clergyman's ear . 
She met his eyes for an instant , but was immediately constrained to give all her attention to the scene now going forward . 
This is awful ! cried the Governor , slowly recovering from the astonishment into which Pearl's response had thrown him . 
Hester caught hold of Pearl , and drew her forcibly into her arms , confronting the old Puritan magistrate with almost a fierce expression . 
God gave me the child ! cried she . 
He gave her in requital of all things else which ye had taken from me . 
God gave her into my keeping ! repeated Hester Prynne , raising her voice almost to a shriek . 
Speak thou for me ! cried she . 
Thou wast my pastor , and hadst charge of my soul , and knowest me better than these men can . 
Make that plain , I pray you ! It must be even so , resumed the minister . 
I feared the woman had no better thought than to make a mountebank of her child ! Oh , not so ! not so ! continued Mr. Dimmesdale . 
She recognises , believe me , the solemn miracle which God hath wrought in the existence of that child . 
And there is a weighty import in what my young brother hath spoken , added the Rev . 
Care must be had nevertheless , to put the child to due and stated examination in the catechism , at thy hands or Master Dimmesdale's . 
Moreover , at a proper season , the tithing men must take heed that she go both to school and to meeting . 
The little baggage hath witchcraft in her , I profess , said he to Mr. Dimmesdale . 
She needs no old woman's broomstick to fly withal ! A strange child ! remarked old Roger Chillingworth . 
It is easy to see the mother's part in her . 
The affair being so satisfactorily concluded , Hester Prynne , with Pearl , departed from the house . 
Hist , hist ! said she , while her ill omened physiognomy seemed to cast a shadow over the cheerful newness of the house . 
Wilt thou go with us to night ? There will be a merry company in the forest and I well nigh promised the Black Man that comely Hester Prynne should make one . 
Make my excuse to him , so please you ! answered Hester , with a triumphant smile . 
I must tarry at home , and keep watch over my little Pearl . 
Even thus early had the child saved her from Satan's snare . 
THE LEECH Under the appellation of Roger Chillingworth , the reader will remember , was hidden another name , which its former wearer had resolved should never more be spoken . 
Her matronly fame was trodden under all men's feet . 
Infamy was babbling around her in the public market place . 
Skilful men , of the medical and chirurgical profession , were of rare occurrence in the colony . 
They seldom , it would appear , partook of the religious zeal that brought other emigrants across the Atlantic . 
The only surgeon was one who combined the occasional exercise of that noble art with the daily and habitual flourish of a razor . 
To such a professional body Roger Chillingworth was a brilliant acquisition . 
This learned stranger was exemplary as regarded at least the outward forms of a religious life and early after his arrival , had chosen for his spiritual guide the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale . 
About this period , however , the health of Mr. Dimmesdale had evidently begun to fail . 
Some declared , that if Mr. Dimmesdale were really going to die , it was cause enough that the world was not worthy to be any longer trodden by his feet . 
With all this difference of opinion as to the cause of his decline , there could be no question of the fact . 
Such was the young clergyman's condition , and so imminent the prospect that his dawning light would be extinguished , all untimely , when Roger Chillingworth made his advent to the town . 
He was heard to speak of Sir Kenelm Digby and other famous men whose scientific attainments were esteemed hardly less than supernatural as having been his correspondents or associates . 
He expressed great alarm at his pastor's state of health , but was anxious to attempt the cure , and , if early undertaken , seemed not despondent of a favourable result . 
Mr. Dimmesdale gently repelled their entreaties . 
I need no medicine , said he . 
He listened in silence , and finally promised to confer with the physician . 
Ah , replied Roger Chillingworth , with that quietness , which , whether imposed or natural , marked all his deportment , it is thus that a young clergyman is apt to speak . 
Good men ever interpret themselves too meanly , said the physician . 
In this manner , the mysterious old Roger Chillingworth became the medical adviser of the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale . 
In truth , he was startled , if not shocked , to find this attribute in the physician . 
But the air was too fresh and chill to be long breathed with comfort . 
So the minister , and the physician with him , withdrew again within the limits of what their Church defined as orthodox . 
He deemed it essential , it would seem , to know the man , before attempting to do him good . 
Wherever there is a heart and an intellect , the diseases of the physical frame are tinged with the peculiarities of these . 
In Arthur Dimmesdale , thought and imagination were so active , and sensibility so intense , that the bodily infirmity would be likely to have its groundwork there . 
Few secrets can escape an investigator , who has opportunity and licence to undertake such a quest , and skill to follow it up . 
A man burdened with a secret should especially avoid the intimacy of his physician . 
Roger Chillingworth possessed all , or most , of the attributes above enumerated . 
The latter had his suspicions , indeed , that even the nature of Mr. Dimmesdale's bodily disease had never fairly been revealed to him . 
There was much joy throughout the town when this greatly desirable object was attained . 
The motherly care of the good widow assigned to Mr. Dimmesdale a front apartment , with a sunny exposure , and heavy window curtains , to create a noontide shadow when desirable . 
But , it must now be said , another portion of the community had latterly begun to take its own view of the relation betwixt Mr. Dimmesdale and the mysterious old physician . 
When an uninstructed multitude attempts to see with its eyes , it is exceedingly apt to be deceived . 
The people , in the case of which we speak , could justify its prejudice against Roger Chillingworth by no fact or argument worthy of serious refutation . 
Forman , the famous old conjurer , who was implicated in the affair of Overbury . 
At first , his expression had been calm , meditative , scholar like . 
Now there was something ugly and evil in his face , which they had not previously noticed , and which grew still the more obvious to sight the oftener they looked upon him . 
To sum up the matter , it grew to be a widely diffused opinion that the Rev . 
This diabolical agent had the Divine permission , for a season , to burrow into the clergyman's intimacy , and plot against his soul . 
No sensible man , it was confessed , could doubt on which side the victory would turn . 
The people looked , with an unshaken hope , to see the minister come forth out of the conflict transfigured with the glory which he would unquestionably win . 
Meanwhile , nevertheless , it was sad to think of the perchance mortal agony through which he must struggle towards his triumph . 
Alas ! to judge from the gloom and terror in the depth of the poor minister's eyes , the battle was a sore one , and the victory anything but secure . 
The soil where this dark miner was working had perchance shown indications that encouraged him . 
Yet Mr. Dimmesdale would perhaps have seen this individual's character more perfectly , if a certain morbidness , to which sick hearts are liable , had not rendered him suspicious of all mankind . 
Trusting no man as his friend , he could not recognize his enemy when the latter actually appeared . 
They are new to me . 
Perchance , said Mr. Dimmesdale , he earnestly desired it , but could not . 
And wherefore ? rejoined the physician . 
The heart , making itself guilty of such secrets , must perforce hold them , until the day when all hidden things shall be revealed . 
That , surely , were a shallow view of it . 
A knowledge of men's hearts will be needful to the completest solution of that problem . 
Then why not reveal it here ? asked Roger Chillingworth , glancing quietly aside at the minister . 
Many , many a poor soul hath given its confidence to me , not only on the death bed , but while strong in life , and fair in reputation . 
True there are such men , answered Mr. Dimmesdale . 
But not to suggest more obvious reasons , it may be that they are kept silent by the very constitution of their nature . 
These men deceive themselves , said Roger Chillingworth , with somewhat more emphasis than usual , and making a slight gesture with his forefinger . 
They fear to take up the shame that rightfully belongs to them . 
He had a ready faculty , indeed , of escaping from any topic that agitated his too sensitive and nervous temperament . 
Looking instinctively from the open window for it was summer time the minister beheld Hester Prynne and little Pearl passing along the footpath that traversed the enclosure . 
In reply to her mother's command and entreaty that she would behave more decorously , little Pearl paused to gather the prickly burrs from a tall burdock which grew beside the tomb . 
Hester did not pluck them off . 
Roger Chillingworth had by this time approached the window and smiled grimly down . 
I saw her , the other day , bespatter the Governor himself with water at the cattle trough in Spring Lane . 
The sensitive clergyman shrank , with nervous dread , from the light missile . 
Detecting his emotion , Pearl clapped her little hands in the most extravagant ecstacy . 
Is Hester Prynne the less miserable , think you , for that scarlet letter on her breast ? I do verily believe it , answered the clergyman . 
Nevertheless , I cannot answer for her . 
There was a look of pain in her face which I would gladly have been spared the sight of . 
There was another pause , and the physician began anew to examine and arrange the plants which he had gathered . 
You inquired of me , a little time agone , said he , at length , my judgment as touching your health . 
I did , answered the clergyman , and would gladly learn it . 
Speak frankly , I pray you , be it for life or death . 
But I know not what to say , the disease is what I seem to know , yet know it not . 
You speak in riddles , learned sir , said the pale minister , glancing aside out of the window . 
Then , to speak more plainly , continued the physician , and I crave pardon , sir , should it seem to require pardon , for this needful plainness of my speech . 
A bodily disease , which we look upon as whole and entire within itself , may , after all , be but a symptom of some ailment in the spiritual part . 
Your pardon once again , good sir , if my speech give the shadow of offence . 
Then I need ask no further , said the clergyman , somewhat hastily rising from his chair . 
Let Him do with me as , in His justice and wisdom , He shall see good . 
But who art thou , that meddlest in this matter ? that dares thrust himself between the sufferer and his God ? With a frantic gesture he rushed out of the room . 
It is as well to have made this step , said Roger Chillingworth to himself , looking after the minister , with a grave smile . 
We shall be friends again anon . 
But see , now , how passion takes hold upon this man , and hurrieth him out of himself ! As with one passion so with another . 
He hath done a wild thing ere now , this pious Master Dimmesdale , in the hot passion of his heart . 
It proved not difficult to re establish the intimacy of the two companions , on the same footing and in the same degree as heretofore . 
This expression was invisible in Mr. Dimmesdale's presence , but grew strongly evident as the physician crossed the threshold . 
A rare case , he muttered . 
I must needs look deeper into it . 
A strange sympathy betwixt soul and body ! Were it only for the art's sake , I must search this matter to the bottom . 
It must have been a work of vast ability in the somniferous school of literature . 
Then , indeed , Mr. Dimmesdale shuddered , and slightly stirred . 
After a brief pause , the physician turned away . 
But what distinguished the physician's ecstasy from Satan's was the trait of wonder in it ! XI . 
The intellect of Roger Chillingworth had now a sufficiently plain path before it . 
It was not , indeed , precisely that which he had laid out for himself to tread . 
It mattered little for his object , whether celestial or from what other region . 
He became , thenceforth , not a spectator only , but a chief actor in the poor minister's interior world . 
He could play upon him as he chose . 
True , he looked doubtfully , fearfully even , at times , with horror and the bitterness of hatred at the deformed figure of the old physician . 
He won it indeed , in great part , by his sorrows . 
His intellectual gifts , his moral perceptions , his power of experiencing and communicating emotion , were kept in a state of preternatural activity by the prick and anguish of his daily life . 
His fame , though still on its upward slope , already overshadowed the soberer reputations of his fellow clergymen , eminent as several of them were . 
These fathers , otherwise so apostolic , lacked Heaven's last and rarest attestation of their office , the Tongue of Flame . 
They would have vainly sought had they ever dreamed of seeking to express the highest truths through the humblest medium of familiar words and images . 
Their voices came down , afar and indistinctly , from the upper heights where they habitually dwelt . 
Not improbably , it was to this latter class of ms that Mr. Dimmesdale , by many of his traits of character , naturally belonged . 
Oftenest persuasive , but sometimes terrible ! The people knew not the power that moved them thus . 
They deemed the young clergyman a miracle of holiness . 
They fancied him the mouth piece of Heaven's messages of wisdom , and rebuke , and love . 
In their eyes , the very ground on which he trod was sanctified . 
They little guessed what deadly purport lurked in those self condemning words . 
The godly youth ! said they among themselves . 
He had spoken the very truth , and transformed it into the veriest falsehood . 
And yet , by the constitution of his nature , he loved the truth , and loathed the lie , as few men ever did . 
In Mr. Dimmesdale's secret closet , under lock and key , there was a bloody scourge . 
He thus typified the constant introspection wherewith he tortured , but could not purify himself . 
None of these visions ever quite deluded him . 
But , for all that , they were , in one sense , the truest and most substantial things which the poor minister now dealt with . 
To the untrue man , the whole universe is false it is impalpable it shrinks to nothing within his grasp . 
And he himself in so far as he shows himself in a false light , becomes a shadow , or , indeed , ceases to exist . 
The only truth that continued to give Mr. Dimmesdale a real existence on this earth was the anguish in his inmost soul , and the undissembled expression of it in his aspect . 
A new thought had struck him . 
There might be a moment's peace in it . 
The minister went up the steps . 
It was an obscure night in early May . 
An unwearied pall of cloud muffled the whole expanse of sky from zenith to horizon . 
But the town was all asleep . 
There was no peril of discovery . 
No eye could see him , save that ever wakeful one which had seen him in his closet , wielding the bloody scourge . 
On that spot , in very truth , there was , and there had long been , the gnawing and poisonous tooth of bodily pain . 
It is done ! muttered the minister , covering his face with his hands . 
The whole town will awake and hurry forth , and find me here ! But it was not so . 
The shriek had perhaps sounded with a far greater power , to his own startled ears , than it actually possessed . 
The clergyman , therefore , hearing no symptoms of disturbance , uncovered his eyes and looked about him . 
He looked like a ghost evoked unseasonably from the grave . 
The cry had evidently startled him . 
Detecting the gleam of Governor Bellingham's lamp , the old lady quickly extinguished her own , and vanished . 
Possibly , she went up among the clouds . 
The minister saw nothing further of her motions . 
The magistrate , after a wary observation of the darkness into which , nevertheless , he could see but little further than he might into a mill stone retired from the window . 
The minister grew comparatively calm . 
His eyes , however , were soon greeted by a little glimmering light , which , at first a long way off was approaching up the street . 
The good old minister came freshly from the death chamber of Governor Winthrop , who had passed from earth to heaven within that very hour . 
But they were uttered only within his imagination . 
The venerable Father Wilson continued to step slowly onward , looking carefully at the muddy pathway before his feet , and never once turning his head towards the guilty platform . 
Shortly afterwards , the like grisly sense of the humorous again stole in among the solemn phantoms of his thought . 
He felt his limbs growing stiff with the unaccustomed chilliness of the night , and doubted whether he should be able to descend the steps of the scaffold . 
Morning would break and find him there The neighbourhood would begin to rouse itself . 
A dusky tumult would flap its wings from one house to another . 
All people , in a word , would come stumbling over their thresholds , and turning up their amazed and horror stricken visages around the scaffold . 
It is I , and my little Pearl . 
Whence come you , Hester ? asked the minister . 
Come up hither , Hester , thou and Little Pearl , said the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale . 
Ye have both been here before , but I was not with you . 
Come up hither once again , and we will stand all three together . 
She silently ascended the steps , and stood on the platform , holding little Pearl by the hand . 
The minister felt for the child's other hand , and took it . 
The three formed an electric chain . 
Minister ! whispered little Pearl . 
What wouldst thou say , child ? asked Mr. Dimmesdale . 
Wilt thou stand here with mother and me , to morrow noontide ? inquired Pearl . 
I shall , indeed , stand with thy mother and thee one other day , but not to morrow . 
Pearl laughed , and attempted to pull away her hand . 
But the minister held it fast . 
A moment longer , my child ! said he . 
But wilt thou promise , asked Pearl , to take my hand , and mother's hand , to morrow noontide ? Not then , Pearl , said the minister but another time . 
And what other time ? persisted the child . 
At the great judgment day , whispered the minister and , strangely enough , the sense that he was a professional teacher of the truth impelled him to answer the child so . 
Then , and there , before the judgment seat , thy mother , and thou , and I must stand together . 
But the daylight of this world shall not see our meeting ! '' Pearl laughed again . 
But before Mr. Dimmesdale had done speaking , a light gleamed far and wide over all the muffled sky . 
It was doubtless caused by one of those meteors , which the night watcher may so often observe burning out to waste , in the vacant regions of the atmosphere . 
So powerful was its radiance , that it thoroughly illuminated the dense medium of cloud betwixt the sky and earth . 
The great vault brightened , like the dome of an immense lamp . 
There was witchcraft in little Pearl's eyes and her face , as she glanced upward at the minister , wore that naughty smile which made its expression frequently so elvish . 
She withdrew her hand from Mr. Dimmesdale's , and pointed across the street . 
But he clasped both his hands over his breast , and cast his eyes towards the zenith . 
Thus , a blazing spear , a sword of flame , a bow , or a sheaf of arrows seen in the midnight sky , prefigured Indian warfare . 
Pestilence was known to have been foreboded by a shower of crimson light . 
Not seldom , it had been seen by multitudes . 
It was , indeed , a majestic idea that the destiny of nations should be revealed , in these awful hieroglyphics , on the cope of heaven . 
A scroll so wide might not be deemed too expensive for Providence to write a people's doom upon . 
The belief was a favourite one with our forefathers , as betokening that their infant commonwealth was under a celestial guardianship of peculiar intimacy and strictness . 
But what shall we say , when an individual discovers a revelation addressed to himself alone , on the same vast sheet of record . 
There was a singular circumstance that characterised Mr. Dimmesdale's psychological state at this moment . 
The minister appeared to see him , with the same glance that discerned the miraculous letter . 
Who is that man , Hester ? gasped Mr. Dimmesdale , overcome with terror . 
I shiver at him ! Dost thou know the man ? I hate him , Hester ! She remembered her oath , and was silent . 
I tell thee , my soul shivers at him ! muttered the minister again . 
Quickly , and as low as thou canst whisper . 
Pearl mumbled something into his ear that sounded , indeed , like human language , but was only such gibberish as children may be heard amusing themselves with by the hour together . 
The elvish child then laughed aloud . 
Dost thou mock me now ? said the minister . 
Thou wast not bold ! thou wast not true ! answered the child . 
Come , good sir , and my dear friend , I pray you let me lead you home ! How knewest thou that I was here ? asked the minister , fearfully . 
Verily , and in good faith , answered Roger Chillingworth , I knew nothing of the matter . 
I had spent the better part of the night at the bedside of the worshipful Governor Winthrop , doing what my poor skill might to give him ease . 
He , going home to a better world , I , likewise , was on my way homeward , when this light shone out . 
Come with me , I beseech you , Reverend sir , else you will be poorly able to do Sabbath duty to morrow . 
I will go home with you , said Mr. Dimmesdale . 
With a chill despondency , like one awakening , all nerveless , from an ugly dream , he yielded himself to the physician , and was led away . 
But as he came down the pulpit steps , the grey bearded sexton met him , holding up a black glove , which the minister recognised as his own . 
It was found , said the Sexton , this morning on the scaffold where evil doers are set up to public shame . 
Satan dropped it there , I take it , intending a scurrilous jest against your reverence . 
But , indeed , he was blind and foolish , as he ever and always is . 
But did your reverence hear of the portent that was seen last night ? a great red letter in the sky the letter A , which we interpret to stand for Angel . 
ANOTHER VIEW OF HESTER In her late singular interview with Mr. Dimmesdale , Hester Prynne was shocked at the condition to which she found the clergyman reduced . 
His nerve seemed absolutely destroyed . 
His moral force was abased into more than childish weakness . 
It grovelled helpless on the ground , even while his intellectual faculties retained their pristine strength , or had perhaps acquired a morbid energy , which disease only could have given them . 
She decided , moreover , that he had a right to her utmost aid . 
The links that united her to the rest of humankind links of flowers , or silk , or gold , or whatever the material had all been broken . 
Here was the iron link of mutual crime , which neither he nor she could break . 
Like all other ties , it brought along with it its obligations . 
Hester Prynne did not now occupy precisely the same position in which we beheld her during the earlier periods of her ignominy . 
Years had come and gone . 
Pearl was now seven years old . 
Her mother , with the scarlet letter on her breast , glittering in its fantastic embroidery , had long been a familiar object to the townspeople . 
It is to the credit of human nature that , except where its selfishness is brought into play , it loves more readily than it hates . 
Hatred , by a gradual and quiet process , will even be transformed to love , unless the change be impeded by a continually new irritation of the original feeling of hostility . 
In this matter of Hester Prynne there was neither irritation nor irksomeness . 
She never battled with the public , but submitted uncomplainingly to its worst usage she made no claim upon it in requital for what she suffered she did not weigh upon its sympathies . 
Then , also , the blameless purity of her life during all these years in which she had been set apart to infamy was reckoned largely in her favour . 
None so self devoted as Hester when pestilence stalked through the town . 
In all seasons of calamity , indeed , whether general or of individuals , the outcast of society at once found her place . 
Elsewhere the token of sin , it was the taper of the sick chamber . 
It had even thrown its gleam , in the sufferer's bard extremity , across the verge of time . 
It had shown him where to set his foot , while the light of earth was fast becoming dim , and ere the light of futurity could reach him . 
In such emergencies Hester's nature showed itself warm and rich a well spring of human tenderness , unfailing to every real demand , and inexhaustible by the largest . 
Her breast , with its badge of shame , was but the softer pillow for the head that needed one . 
The letter was the symbol of her calling . 
Such helpfulness was found in her so much power to do , and power to sympathise that many people refused to interpret the scarlet A by its original signification . 
They said that it meant Abel , so strong was Hester Prynne , with a woman's strength . 
It was only the darkened house that could contain her . 
When sunshine came again , she was not there . 
Her shadow had faded across the threshold . 
The helpful inmate had departed , without one backward glance to gather up the meed of gratitude , if any were in the hearts of those whom she had served so zealously . 
Meeting them in the street , she never raised her head to receive their greeting . 
If they were resolute to accost her , she laid her finger on the scarlet letter , and passed on . 
This might be pride , but was so like humility , that it produced all the softening influence of the latter quality on the public mind . 
The rulers , and the wise and learned men of the community , were longer in acknowledging the influence of Hester's good qualities than the people . 
The prejudices which they shared in common with the latter were fortified in themselves by an iron frame work of reasoning , that made it a far tougher labour to expel them . 
Day by day , nevertheless , their sour and rigid wrinkles were relaxing into something which , in the due course of years , might grow to be an expression of almost benevolence . 
Thus it was with the men of rank , on whom their eminent position imposed the guardianship of the public morals . 
Do you see that woman with the embroidered badge ? they would say to strangers . 
It imparted to the wearer a kind of sacredness , which enabled her to walk securely amid all peril . 
Had she fallen among thieves , it would have kept her safe . 
It was reported , and believed by many , that an Indian had drawn his arrow against the badge , and that the missile struck it , and fell harmless to the ground . 
The effect of the symbol or rather , of the position in respect to society that was indicated by it on the mind of Hester Prynne herself was powerful and peculiar . 
Even the attractiveness of her person had undergone a similar change . 
It might be partly owing to the studied austerity of her dress , and partly to the lack of demonstration in her manners . 
Some attribute had departed from her , the permanence of which had been essential to keep her a woman . 
If she be all tenderness , she will die . 
The latter is perhaps the truest theory . 
We shall see whether Hester Prynne were ever afterwards so touched and so transfigured . 
Much of the marble coldness of Hester's impression was to be attributed to the circumstance that her life had turned , in a great measure , from passion and feeling to thought . 
The world's law was no law for her mind . 
It was an age in which the human intellect , newly emancipated , had taken a more active and a wider range than for many centuries before . 
Men of the sword had overthrown nobles and kings . 
Hester Prynne imbibed this spirit . 
It is remarkable that persons who speculate the most boldly often conform with the most perfect quietude to the external regulations of society . 
The thought suffices them , without investing itself in the flesh and blood of action . 
So it seemed to be with Hester . 
Yet , had little Pearl never come to her from the spiritual world , it might have been far otherwise . 
Then she might have come down to us in history , hand in hand with Ann Hutchinson , as the foundress of a religious sect . 
She might , in one of her phases , have been a prophetess . 
She might , and not improbably would , have suffered death from the stern tribunals of the period , for attempting to undermine the foundations of the Puritan establishment . 
But , in the education of her child , the mother's enthusiasm thought had something to wreak itself upon . 
Providence , in the person of this little girl , had assigned to Hester's charge , the germ and blossom of womanhood , to be cherished and developed amid a host of difficulties . 
Indeed , the same dark question often rose into her mind with reference to the whole race of womanhood . 
Was existence worth accepting even to the happiest among them ? As concerned her own individual existence , she had long ago decided in the negative , and dismissed the point as settled . 
A tendency to speculation , though it may keep women quiet , as it does man , yet makes her sad . 
She discerns , it may be , such a hopeless task before her . 
As a first step , the whole system of society is to be torn down and built up anew . 
A woman never overcomes these problems by any exercise of thought . 
They are not to be solved , or only in one way . 
If her heart chance to come uppermost , they vanish . 
There was wild and ghastly scenery all around her , and a home and comfort nowhere . 
The scarlet letter had not done its office . 
She had witnessed the intense misery beneath which the minister struggled , or , to speak more accurately , had ceased to struggle . 
She saw that he stood on the verge of lunacy , if he had not already stepped across it . 
Under that impulse she had made her choice , and had chosen , as it now appeared , the more wretched alternative of the two . 
She determined to redeem her error so far as it might yet be possible . 
She had climbed her way since then to a higher point . 
The old man , on the other hand , had brought himself nearer to her level , or , perhaps , below it , by the revenge which he had stooped for . 
The occasion was not long to seek . 
So the child flew away like a bird , and , making bare her small white feet went pattering along the moist margin of the sea . 
Here and there she came to a full stop , ad peeped curiously into a pool , left by the retiring tide as a mirror for Pearl to see her face in . 
But the visionary little maid on her part , beckoned likewise , as if to say This is a better place come thou into the pool . 
Meanwhile her mother had accosted the physician . 
I would speak a word with you , said she a word that concerns us much . 
Aha ! and is it Mistress Hester that has a word for old Roger Chillingworth ? answered he , raising himself from his stooping posture . 
It was debated whether or no , with safety to the commonweal , yonder scarlet letter might be taken off your bosom . 
On my life , Hester , I made my intreaty to the worshipful magistrate that it might be done forthwith . 
It lies not in the pleasure of the magistrates to take off the badge , calmly replied Hester . 
Were I worthy to be quit of it , it would fall away of its own nature , or be transformed into something that should speak a different purport . 
Nay , then , wear it , if it suit you better , rejoined he , A woman must needs follow her own fancy touching the adornment of her person . 
This he repressed as speedily as possible , and strove to look as if nothing of the kind had happened . 
The scarlet letter burned on Hester Prynne's bosom . 
Here was another ruin , the responsibility of which came partly home to her . 
But let it pass ! It is of yonder miserable man that I would speak . 
Not to hide the truth , Mistress Hester , my thoughts happen just now to be busy with the gentleman . 
So speak freely and I will make answer . 
When we last spake together , said Hester , now seven years ago , it was your pleasure to extort a promise of secrecy as touching the former relation betwixt yourself and me . 
As the life and good fame of yonder man were in your hands there seemed no choice to me , save to be silent in accordance with your behest . 
Since that day no man is so near to him as you . 
You tread behind his every footstep . 
You are beside him , sleeping and waking . 
You burrow and rankle in his heart ! Your clutch is on his life , and you cause him to die daily a living death , and still he knows you not . 
In permitting this I have surely acted a false part by the only man to whom the power was left me to be true ! What choice had you ? asked Roger Chillingworth . 
What evil have I done the man ? asked Roger Chillingworth again . 
For , Hester , his spirit lacked the strength that could have borne up , as thine has , beneath a burden like thy scarlet letter . 
Oh , I could reveal a goodly secret ! But enough . 
What art can do , I have exhausted on him . 
That he now breathes and creeps about on earth is owing all to me ! Better he had died at once ! said Hester Prynne . 
Yea , woman , thou sayest truly ! cried old Roger Chillingworth , letting the lurid fire of his heart blaze out before her eyes . 
Better had he died at once ! Never did mortal suffer what this man has suffered . 
And all , all , in the sight of his worst enemy ! He has been conscious of me . 
He has felt an influence dwelling always upon him like a curse . 
It was one of those moments which sometimes occur only at the interval of years when a man's moral aspect is faithfully revealed to his mind's eye . 
Not improbably he had never before viewed himself as he did now . 
Hast thou not tortured him enough ? said Hester , noticing the old man's look . 
Dost thou remember me , Hester , as I was nine years agone ? Even then I was in the autumn of my days , nor was it the early autumn . 
No life had been more peaceful and innocent than mine few lives so rich with benefits conferred . 
And what am I now ? demanded he , looking into her face , and permitting the whole evil within him to be written on his features . 
I have already told thee what I am a fiend ! Who made me so ? It was myself , cried Hester , shuddering . 
It was I , not less than he . 
Why hast thou not avenged thyself on me ? I have left thee to the scarlet letter , replied Roger Chillingworth . 
If that has not avenged me , I can do no more ! He laid his finger on it with a smile . 
It has avenged thee , answered Hester Prynne . 
I judged no less , said the physician . 
And now what wouldst thou with me touching this man ? I must reveal the secret , answered Hester , firmly . 
He must discern thee in thy true character . 
What may be the result I know not . 
But this long debt of confidence , due from me to him , whose bane and ruin I have been , shall at length be paid . 
So far as concerns the overthrow or preservation of his fair fame and his earthly state , and perchance his life , he is in my hands . 
Do with him as thou wilt ! There is no good for him , no good for me , no good for thee . 
There is no good for little Pearl . 
There is no path to guide us out of this dismal maze . 
Peradventure , hadst thou met earlier with a better love than mine , this evil had not been . 
I pity thee , for the good that has been wasted in thy nature . 
It is not so ! There might be good for thee , and thee alone , since thou hast been deeply wronged and hast it at thy will to pardon . 
I have no such power as thou tellest me of . 
My old faith , long forgotten , comes back to me , and explains all that we do , and all we suffer . 
By thy first step awry , thou didst plant the germ of evil but since that moment it has all been a dark necessity . 
Ye that have wronged me are not sinful , save in a kind of typical illusion neither am I fiend like , who have snatched a fiend's office from his hands . 
Let the black flower blossom as it may ! Now , go thy ways , and deal as thou wilt with yonder man . 
He waved his hand , and betook himself again to his employment of gathering herbs . 
He gathered here and there a herb , or grubbed up a root and put it into the basket on his arm . 
His gray beard almost touched the ground as he crept onward . 
She wondered what sort of herbs they were which the old man was so sedulous to gather . 
He needed to bask himself in that smile , he said , in order that the chill of so many lonely hours among his books might be taken off the scholar's heart . 
Such scenes had once appeared not otherwise than happy , but now , as viewed through the dismal medium of her subsequent life , they classed themselves among her ugliest remembrances . 
Yes , I hate him ! repeated Hester more bitterly than before . 
But Hester ought long ago to have done with this injustice . 
He being gone , she summoned back her child . 
Soon finding , however , that either she or the image was unreal , she turned elsewhere for better pastime . 
She seized a live horse shoe by the tail , and made prize of several five fingers , and laid out a jelly fish to melt in the warm sun . 
One little gray bird , with a white breast , Pearl was almost sure had been hit by a pebble , and fluttered away with a broken wing . 
Her final employment was to gather seaweed of various kinds , and make herself a scarf or mantle , and a head dress , and thus assume the aspect of a little mermaid . 
She inherited her mother's gift for devising drapery and costume . 
A letter the letter A but freshly green instead of scarlet . 
I wonder if mother will ask me what it means ? thought Pearl . 
My little Pearl , said Hester , after a moment's silence , the green letter , and on thy childish bosom , has no purport . 
But dost thou know , my child , what this letter means which thy mother is doomed to wear ? Yes , mother , said the child . 
It is the great letter A. Thou hast taught me in the horn book . 
She felt a morbid desire to ascertain the point . 
Dost thou know , child , wherefore thy mother wears this letter ? Truly do I ! answered Pearl , looking brightly into her mother's face . 
Ask yonder old man whom thou hast been talking with , it may be he can tell . 
It showed Pearl in an unwonted aspect . 
And this , moreover , was a mother's estimate of the child's disposition . 
Any other observer might have seen few but unamiable traits , and have given them a far darker colouring . 
She possessed affections , too , though hitherto acrid and disagreeable , as are the richest flavours of unripe fruit . 
Pearl's inevitable tendency to hover about the enigma of the scarlet letter seemed an innate quality of her being . 
From the earliest epoch of her conscious life , she had entered upon this as her appointed mission . 
No ! if this be the price of the child's sympathy , I cannot pay it . 
Then she spoke aloud Silly Pearl , said she , what questions are these ? There are many things in this world that a child must not ask about . 
What know I of the minister's heart ? And as for the scarlet letter , I wear it for the sake of its gold thread . 
In all the seven bygone years , Hester Prynne had never before been false to the symbol on her bosom . 
As for little Pearl , the earnestness soon passed out of her face . 
But the child did not see fit to let the matter drop . 
Do not tease me else I shall put thee into the dark closet ! XVI . 
At last , while attending a sick chamber , whither the Rev . 
Mr. Dimmesdale had been summoned to make a prayer , she learnt that he had gone , the day before , to visit the Apostle Eliot , among his Indian converts . 
He would probably return by a certain hour in the afternoon of the morrow . 
Betimes , therefore , the next day , Hester took little Pearl who was necessarily the companion of all her mother's expeditions , however inconvenient her presence and set forth . 
The road , after the two wayfarers had crossed from the Peninsula to the mainland , was no other than a foot path . 
It straggled onward into the mystery of the primeval forest . 
The day was chill and sombre . 
This flitting cheerfulness was always at the further extremity of some long vista through the forest . 
Mother , said little Pearl , the sunshine does not love you . 
It runs away and hides itself , because it is afraid of something on your bosom . 
Now , see ! There it is , playing a good way off . 
Stand you here , and let me run and catch it . 
I am but a child . 
It will not flee from me for I wear nothing on my bosom yet ! Nor ever will , my child , I hope , said Hester . 
And why not , mother ? asked Pearl , stopping short , just at the beginning of her race . 
Will not it come of its own accord when I am a woman grown ? Run away , child , answered her mother , and catch the sunshine . 
The light lingered about the lonely child , as if glad of such a playmate , until her mother had drawn almost nigh enough to step into the magic circle too . 
It will go now , said Pearl , shaking her head . 
See ! answered Hester , smiling now I can stretch out my hand and grasp some of it . 
Perhaps this , too , was a disease , and but the reflex of the wild energy with which Hester had fought against her sorrows before Pearl's birth . 
It was certainly a doubtful charm , imparting a hard , metallic lustre to the child's character . 
She wanted what some people want throughout life a grief that should deeply touch her , and thus humanise and make her capable of sympathy . 
But there was time enough yet for little Pearl . 
I am not aweary , mother , replied the little girl . 
But you may sit down , if you will tell me a story meanwhile . 
A story , child ! said Hester . 
Didst thou ever meet the Black Man , mother ? And who told you this story , Pearl , asked her mother , recognising a common superstition of the period . 
It was the old dame in the chimney corner , at the house where you watched last night , said the child . 
But she fancied me asleep while she was talking of it . 
She said that a thousand and a thousand people had met him here , and had written in his book , and have his mark on them . 
And that ugly tempered lady , old Mistress Hibbins , was one . 
Is it true , mother ? And dost thou go to meet him in the nighttime ? Didst thou ever awake and find thy mother gone ? asked Hester . 
Not that I remember , said the child . 
If thou fearest to leave me in our cottage , thou mightest take me along with thee . 
Yes , if thou tellest me all , answered Pearl . 
Once in my life I met the Black Man ! said her mother . 
This scarlet letter is his mark ! Thus conversing , they entered sufficiently deep into the wood to secure themselves from the observation of any casual passenger along the forest track . 
Pearl resembled the brook , inasmuch as the current of her life gushed from a well spring as mysterious , and had flowed through scenes shadowed as heavily with gloom . 
But , unlike the little stream , she danced and sparkled , and prattled airily along her course . 
What does this sad little brook say , mother ? inquired she . 
If thou hadst a sorrow of thine own , the brook might tell thee of it , answered her mother , even as it is telling me of mine . 
But now , Pearl , I hear a footstep along the path , and the noise of one putting aside the branches . 
I would have thee betake thyself to play , and leave me to speak with him that comes yonder . 
Is it the Black Man ? asked Pearl . 
Wilt thou go and play , child ? repeated her mother , But do not stray far into the wood . 
And take heed that thou come at my first call . 
It is no Black Man ! Thou canst see him now , through the trees . 
It is the minister ! And so it is ! said the child . 
But do not stray far . 
Keep where thou canst hear the babble of the brook . 
The child went singing away , following up the current of the brook , and striving to mingle a more lightsome cadence with its melancholy voice . 
So Pearl , who had enough of shadow in her own little life , chose to break off all acquaintance with this repining brook . 
She set herself , therefore , to gathering violets and wood anemones , and some scarlet columbines that she found growing in the crevice of a high rock . 
When her elf child had departed , Hester Prynne made a step or two towards the track that led through the forest , but still remained under the deep shadow of the trees . 
She beheld the minister advancing along the path entirely alone , and leaning on a staff which he had cut by the wayside . 
Here it was wofully visible , in this intense seclusion of the forest , which of itself would have been a heavy trial to the spirits . 
The leaves might bestrew him , and the soil gradually accumulate and form a little hillock over his frame , no matter whether there were life in it or no . 
Death was too definite an object to be wished for or avoided . 
To Hester's eye , the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale exhibited no symptom of positive and vivacious suffering , except that , as little Pearl had remarked , he kept his hand over his heart . 
THE PASTOR AND HIS PARISHIONER Slowly as the minister walked , he had almost gone by before Hester Prynne could gather voice enough to attract his observation . 
Arthur Dimmesdale ! she said , faintly at first , then louder , but hoarsely Arthur Dimmesdale ! Who speaks ? answered the minister . 
Gathering himself quickly up , he stood more erect , like a man taken by surprise in a mood to which he was reluctant to have witnesses . 
It may be that his pathway through life was haunted thus by a spectre that had stolen out from among his thoughts . 
He made a step nigher , and discovered the scarlet letter . 
Hester ! Hester Prynne ! , said he is it thou ? Art thou in life ? Even so . 
Each a ghost , and awe stricken at the other ghost . 
The soul beheld its features in the mirror of the passing moment . 
The grasp , cold as it was , took away what was dreariest in the interview . 
They now felt themselves , at least , inhabitants of the same sphere . 
Thus they went onward , not boldly , but step by step , into the themes that were brooding deepest in their hearts . 
After awhile , the minister fixed his eyes on Hester Prynne's . 
Hester , said he , hast thou found peace ? She smiled drearily , looking down upon her bosom . 
Hast thou ? she asked . 
None nothing but despair ! he answered . 
Nay , I never should have lost it . 
Hester , I am most miserable ! The people reverence thee , said Hester . 
And surely thou workest good among them ! Doth this bring thee no comfort ? More misery , Hester ! Only the more misery ! answered the clergyman with a bitter smile . 
As concerns the good which I may appear to do , I have no faith in it . 
It must needs be a delusion . 
You have deeply and sorely repented . 
Your sin is left behind you in the days long past . 
Your present life is not less holy , in very truth , than it seems in people's eyes . 
Is there no reality in the penitence thus sealed and witnessed by good works ? And wherefore should it not bring you peace ? No , Hester no ! replied the clergyman . 
Yet , uttering his long restrained emotions so vehemently as he did , his words here offered her the very point of circumstances in which to interpose what she came to say . 
Ha ! What sayest thou ? cried he . 
The very contiguity of his enemy , beneath whatever mask the latter might conceal himself , was enough to disturb the magnetic sphere of a being so sensitive as Arthur Dimmesdale . 
But of late , since the night of his vigil , all her sympathies towards him had been both softened and invigorated . 
She now read his heart more accurately . 
Its result , on earth , could hardly fail to be insanity , and hereafter , that eternal alienation from the Good and True , of which madness is perhaps the earthly type . 
And now , rather than have had this grievous wrong to confess , she would gladly have laid down on the forest leaves , and died there , at Arthur Dimmesdale's feet . 
Never was there a blacker or a fiercer frown than Hester now encountered . 
For the brief space that it lasted , it was a dark transfiguration . 
But his character had been so much enfeebled by suffering , that even its lower energies were incapable of more than a temporary struggle . 
He sank down on the ground , and buried his face in his hands . 
He would have released himself , but strove in vain to do so . 
Hester would not set him free , lest he should look her sternly in the face . 
Heaven , likewise , had frowned upon her , and she had not died . 
I freely forgive you now . 
May God forgive us both . 
We are not , Hester , the worst sinners in the world . 
There is one worse than even the polluted priest ! That old man's revenge has been blacker than my sin . 
He has violated , in cold blood , the sanctity of a human heart . 
Thou and I , Hester , never did so ! Never , never ! whispered she . 
What we did had a consecration of its own . 
We felt it so ! We said so to each other . 
Hast thou forgotten it ? Hush , Hester ! said Arthur Dimmesdale , rising from the ground . 
No I have not forgotten ! They sat down again , side by side , and hand clasped in hand , on the mossy trunk of the fallen tree . 
The forest was obscure around them , and creaked with a blast that was passing through it . 
No golden light had ever been so precious as the gloom of this dark forest . 
Hester ! cried he , here is a new horror ! Roger Chillingworth knows your purpose to reveal his true character . 
I deem it not likely that he will betray the secret . 
He will doubtless seek other means of satiating his dark passion . 
Think for me , Hester ! Thou art strong . 
Resolve for me ! Thou must dwell no longer with this man , said Hester , slowly and firmly . 
Thy heart must be no longer under his evil eye ! It were far worse than death ! replied the minister . 
Wilt thou die for very weakness ? There is no other cause ! The judgment of God is on me , answered the conscience stricken priest . 
It is too mighty for me to struggle with ! Heaven would show mercy , rejoined Hester , hadst thou but the strength to take advantage of it . 
Be thou strong for me ! answered he . 
Advise me what to do . 
Then there is the broad pathway of the sea ! continued Hester . 
If thou so choose , it will bear thee back again . 
I am powerless to go . 
Wretched and sinful as I am , I have had no other thought than to drag on my earthly existence in the sphere where Providence hath placed me . 
Leave this wreck and ruin here where it hath happened . 
There is happiness to be enjoyed ! There is good to be done ! Exchange this false life of thine for a true one . 
Be , if thy spirit summon thee to such a mission , the teacher and apostle of the red men . 
Or , as is more thy nature , be a scholar and a sage among the wisest and the most renowned of the cultivated world . 
He lacked energy to grasp the better fortune that seemed within his reach . 
He repeated the word Alone , Hester ! Thou shall not go alone ! answered she , in a deep whisper . 
Then , all was spoken ! XVIII . 
Her intellect and heart had their home , as it were , in desert places , where she roamed as freely as the wild Indian in his woods . 
The tendency of her fate and fortunes had been to set her flee . 
The scarlet letter was her passport into regions where other women dared not tread . 
Shame , Despair , Solitude ! These had been her teachers stern and wild ones and they had made her strong , but taught her much amiss . 
But this had been a sin of passion , not of principle , nor even purpose . 
At the head of the social system , as the clergymen of that day stood , he was only the more trammelled by its regulations , its principles , and even its prejudices . 
As a priest , the framework of his order inevitably hemmed him in . 
Thus we seem to see that , as regarded Hester Prynne , the whole seven years of outlaw and ignominy had been little other than a preparation for this very hour . 
And be the stern and sad truth spoken , that the breach which guilt has once made into the human soul is never , in this mortal state , repaired . 
But there is still the ruined wall , and near it the stealthy tread of the foe that would win over again his unforgotten triumph . 
The struggle , if there were one , need not be described . 
Let it suffice that the clergyman resolved to flee , and not alone . 
The decision once made , a glow of strange enjoyment threw its flickering brightness over the trouble of his breast . 
Of a deeply religious temperament , there was inevitably a tinge of the devotional in his mood . 
Do I feel joy again ? cried he , wondering at himself . 
The mystic token alighted on the hither verge of the stream . 
The stigma gone , Hester heaved a long , deep sigh , in which the burden of shame and anguish departed from her spirit . 
There played around her mouth , and beamed out of her eyes , a radiant and tender smile , that seemed gushing from the very heart of womanhood . 
A crimson flush was glowing on her cheek , that had been long so pale . 
And , as if the gloom of the earth and sky had been but the effluence of these two mortal hearts , it vanished with their sorrow . 
The objects that had made a shadow hitherto , embodied the brightness now . 
The course of the little brook might be traced by its merry gleam afar into the wood's heart of mystery , which had become a mystery of joy . 
Had the forest still kept its gloom , it would have been bright in Hester's eyes , and bright in Arthur Dimmesdale's ! Hester looked at him with a thrill of another joy . 
Thou must know Pearl ! said she . 
Our little Pearl ! Thou hast seen her yes , I know it ! but thou wilt see her now with other eyes . 
I have long shrunk from children , because they often show a distrust a backwardness to be familiar with me . 
I have even been afraid of little Pearl ! Ah , that was sad ! answered the mother . 
But she will love thee dearly , and thou her . 
She is not far off . 
Pearl ! Pearl ! I see the child , observed the minister . 
Yonder she is , standing in a streak of sunshine , a good way off , on the other side of the brook . 
The ray quivered to and fro , making her figure dim or distinct now like a real child , now like a child's spirit as the splendour went and came again . 
She heard her mother's voice , and approached slowly through the forest . 
Pearl had not found the hour pass wearisomely while her mother sat talking with the clergyman . 
Sombre as it was , it put on the kindest of its moods to welcome her . 
It offered her the partridge berries , the growth of the preceding autumn , but ripening only in the spring , and now red as drops of blood upon the withered leaves . 
These Pearl gathered , and was pleased with their wild flavour . 
The small denizens of the wilderness hardly took pains to move out of her path . 
A pigeon , alone on a low branch , allowed Pearl to come beneath , and uttered a sound as much of greeting as alarm . 
It was a last year's nut , and already gnawed by his sharp tooth . 
The truth seems to be , however , that the mother forest , and these wild things which it nourished , all recognised a kindred wilderness in the human child . 
And she was gentler here than in the grassy margined streets of the settlement , or in her mother's cottage . 
With these she decorated her hair and her young waist , and became a nymph child , or an infant dryad , or whatever else was in closest sympathy with the antique wood . 
In such guise had Pearl adorned herself , when she heard her mother's voice , and came slowly back . 
Slowly for she saw the clergyman ! XIX . 
THE CHILD AT THE BROOKSIDE Thou will love her dearly , repeated Hester Prynne , as she and the minister sat watching little Pearl . 
A little longer , and thou needest not to be afraid to trace whose child she is . 
It was with a feeling which neither of them had ever before experienced , that they sat and watched Pearl's slow advance . 
In her was visible the tie that united them . 
Let her see nothing strange no passion or eagerness in thy way of accosting her , whispered Hester . 
Our Pearl is a fitful and fantastic little elf sometimes . 
Especially she is generally intolerant of emotion , when she does not fully comprehend the why and wherefore . 
They will not climb my knee , nor prattle in my ear , nor answer to my smile , but stand apart , and eye me strangely . 
Even little babes , when I take them in my arms , weep bitterly . 
And thou didst plead so bravely in her behalf and mine ! answered the mother . 
I remember it and so shall little Pearl . 
This image , so nearly identical with the living Pearl , seemed to communicate somewhat of its own shadowy and intangible quality to the child herself . 
In the brook beneath stood another child another and the same with likewise its ray of golden light . 
There were both truth and error in the impression the child and mother were estranged , but through Hester's fault , not Pearl's . 
I have a strange fancy , observed the sensitive minister , that this brook is the boundary between two worlds , and that thou canst never meet thy Pearl again . 
Come , dearest child ! said Hester encouragingly , and stretching out both her arms . 
How slow thou art ! When hast thou been so sluggish before now ? Here is a friend of mine , who must be thy friend also . 
Thou wilt have twice as much love henceforward as thy mother alone could give thee ! Leap across the brook and come to us . 
Thou canst leap like a young deer ! Pearl , without responding in any manner to these honey sweet expressions , remained on the other side of the brook . 
For some unaccountable reason , as Arthur Dimmesdale felt the child's eyes upon himself , his hand with that gesture so habitual as to have become involuntary stole over his heart . 
At length , assuming a singular air of authority , Pearl stretched out her hand , with the small forefinger extended , and pointing evidently towards her mother's breast . 
And beneath , in the mirror of the brook , there was the flower girdled and sunny image of little Pearl , pointing her small forefinger too . 
Thou strange child ! why dost thou not come to me ? exclaimed Hester . 
Pearl still pointed with her forefinger , and a frown gathered on her brow the more impressive from the childish , the almost baby like aspect of the features that conveyed it . 
In Pearl's young beauty , as in the wrinkled witch , it has a preternatural effect . 
Bring it hither ! said Hester . 
Come thou and take it up ! answered Pearl . 
Was ever such a child ! observed Hester aside to the minister . 
Oh , I have much to tell thee about her ! But , in very truth , she is right as regards this hateful token . 
Hester next gathered up the heavy tresses of her hair and confined them beneath her cap . 
When the dreary change was wrought , she extended her hand to Pearl . 
Dost thou know thy mother now , child ? , asked she , reproachfully , but with a subdued tone . 
When thou hast shown me a little love , thou mockest me ! Why doth the minister sit yonder ? asked Pearl . 
He waits to welcome thee , replied her mother . 
Come thou , and entreat his blessing ! He loves thee , my little Pearl , and loves thy mother , too . 
Wilt thou not love him ? Come he longs to greet thee ! Doth he love us ? said Pearl , looking up with acute intelligence into her mother's face . 
Will he go back with us , hand in hand , we three together , into the town ? Not now , my child , answered Hester . 
But in days to come he will walk hand in hand with us . 
We will have a home and fireside of our own and thou shalt sit upon his knee and he will teach thee many things , and love thee dearly . 
Thou wilt love him wilt thou not ? And will he always keep his hand over his heart ? inquired Pearl . 
Foolish child , what a question is that ! exclaimed her mother . 
The minister painfully embarrassed , but hoping that a kiss might prove a talisman to admit him into the child's kindlier regards bent forward , and impressed one on her brow . 
She then remained apart , silently watching Hester and the clergyman while they talked together and made such arrangements as were suggested by their new position and the purposes soon to be fulfilled . 
And now this fateful interview had come to a close . 
So great a vicissitude in his life could not at once be received as real . 
And there was Pearl , too , lightly dancing from the margin of the brook now that the intrusive third person was gone and taking her old place by her mother's side . 
This vessel had recently arrived from the Spanish Main , and within three days' time would sail for Bristol . 
The minister had inquired of Hester , with no little interest , the precise time at which the vessel might be expected to depart . 
It would probably be on the fourth day from the present . 
This is most fortunate ! he had then said to himself . 
Now , why the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale considered it so very fortunate we hesitate to reveal . 
No man , for any considerable period , can wear one face to himself and another to the multitude , without finally getting bewildered as to which may be the true . 
The excitement of Mr. Dimmesdale's feelings as he returned from his interview with Hester , lent him unaccustomed physical energy , and hurried him townward at a rapid pace . 
The pathway among the woods seemed wilder , more uncouth with its rude natural obstacles , and less trodden by the foot of man , than he remembered it on his outward journey . 
He could not but recall how feebly , and with what frequent pauses for breath he had toiled over the same ground , only two days before . 
As he drew near the town , he took an impression of change from the series of familiar objects that presented themselves . 
It seemed not yesterday , not one , not two , but many days , or even years ago , since he had quitted them . 
Not the less , however , came this importunately obtrusive sense of change . 
The same was true as regarded the acquaintances whom he met , and all the well known shapes of human life , about the little town . 
A similar impression struck him most remarkably a he passed under the walls of his own church . 
The minister's own will , and Hester's will , and the fate that grew between them , had wrought this transformation . 
It was the same town as heretofore , but the same minister returned not from the forest . 
Before Mr. Dimmesdale reached home , his inner man gave him other evidences of a revolution in the sphere of thought and feeling . 
For instance , he met one of his own deacons . 
And , even with this terror in his heart , he could hardly avoid laughing , to imagine how the sanctified old patriarchal deacon would have been petrified by his minister's impiety . 
Again , another incident of the same nature . 
The instilment thereof into her mind would probably have caused this aged sister to drop down dead , at once , as by the effect of an intensely poisonous infusion . 
What he really did whisper , the minister could never afterwards recollect . 
Again , a third instance . 
After parting from the old church member , he met the youngest sister of them all . 
She was fair and pure as a lily that had bloomed in Paradise . 
Before the minister had time to celebrate his victory over this last temptation , he was conscious of another impulse , more ludicrous , and almost as horrible . 
Denying himself this freak , as unworthy of his cloth , he met a drunken seaman , one of the ship's crew from the Spanish Main . 
What is it that haunts and tempts me thus ? cried the minister to himself , at length , pausing in the street , and striking his hand against his forehead . 
So , reverend sir , you have made a visit into the forest , observed the witch lady , nodding her high head dress at him . 
The next time I pray you to allow me only a fair warning , and I shall be proud to bear you company . 
Without taking overmuch upon myself my good word will go far towards gaining any strange gentleman a fair reception from yonder potentate you wot of . 
And the infectious poison of that sin had been thus rapidly diffused throughout his moral system . 
It bad stupefied all blessed impulses , and awakened into vivid life the whole brotherhood of bad ones . 
Scorn , bitterness , unprovoked malignity , gratuitous desire of ill , ridicule of whatever was good and holy , all awoke to tempt , even while they frightened him . 
And his encounter with old Mistress Hibbins , if it were a real incident , did but show its sympathy and fellowship with wicked mortals , and the world of perverted spirits . 
He had by this time reached his dwelling on the edge of the burial ground , and , hastening up the stairs , took refuge in his study . 
Another man had returned out of the forest a wiser one with a knowledge of hidden mysteries which the simplicity of the former never could have reached . 
And so he did ! It was old Roger Chillingworth that entered . 
The minister stood white and speechless , with one hand on the Hebrew Scriptures , and the other spread upon his breast . 
Will not my aid be requisite to put you in heart and strength to preach your Election Sermon ? Nay , I think not so , rejoined the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale . 
My journey , and the sight of the holy Apostle yonder , and the free air which I have breathed have done me good , after so long confinement in my study . 
I think to need no more of your drugs , my kind physician , good though they be , and administered by a friendly hand . 
All this time Roger Chillingworth was looking at the minister with the grave and intent regard of a physician towards his patient . 
The physician knew then that in the minister's regard he was no longer a trusted friend , but his bitterest enemy . 
So much being known , it would appear natural that a part of it should he expressed . 
Thus the minister felt no apprehension that Roger Chillingworth would touch , in express words , upon the real position which they sustained towards one another . 
Yet did the physician , in his dark way , creep frightfully near the secret . 
The people look for great things from you , apprehending that another year may come about and find their pastor gone . 
Yes , to another world , replied the minister with pious resignation . 
I joy to hear it , answered the physician . 
It may be that my remedies , so long administered in vain , begin now to take due effect . 
I thank you , and can but requite your good deeds with my prayers . 
A good man's prayers are golden recompense ! rejoined old Roger Chillingworth , as he took his leave . 
However , leaving that mystery to solve itself , or go unsolved for ever , he drove his task onward with earnest haste and ecstasy . 
There he was , with the pen still between his fingers , and a vast , immeasurable tract of written space behind him ! XXI . 
On this public holiday , as on all other occasions for seven years past , Hester was clad in a garment of coarse gray cloth . 
Her face , so long familiar to the townspeople , showed the marble quietude which they were accustomed to behold there . 
Look your last on the scarlet letter and its wearer ! the people's victim and lifelong bond slave , as they fancied her , might say to them . 
Pearl was decked out with airy gaiety . 
As with these , so with the child her garb was all of one idea with her nature . 
This effervescence made her flit with a bird like movement , rather than walk by her mother's side . 
She broke continually into shouts of a wild , inarticulate , and sometimes piercing music . 
Why does he do so , mother ? He remembers thee a little babe , my child , answered Hester . 
He should not nod and smile at me , for all that the black , grim , ugly eyed old man ! said Pearl . 
He may nod at thee , if he will for thou art clad in gray , and wearest the scarlet letter . 
For the Governor and the magistrates are to go by , and the ministers , and all the great people and good people , with the music and the soldiers marching before them . 
And will the minister be there ? asked Pearl . 
What a strange , sad man is he ! said the child , as if speaking partly to herself . 
Think not now of the minister , but look about thee , and see how cheery is everybody's face to day . 
But we perhaps exaggerate the gray or sable tinge , which undoubtedly characterized the mood and manners of the age . 
The persons now in the market place of Boston had not been born to an inheritance of Puritanic gloom . 
Had they followed their hereditary taste , the New England settlers would have illustrated all events of public importance by bonfires , banquets , pageantries , and processions . 
There was some shadow of an attempt of this kind in the mode of celebrating the day on which the political year of the colony commenced . 
All came forth to move in procession before the people's eye , and thus impart a needed dignity to the simple framework of a government so newly constructed . 
Not the less , however , the great , honest face of the people smiled grimly , perhaps , but widely too . 
, that they would compare favourably , in point of holiday keeping , with their descendants , even at so long an interval as ourselves . 
We have yet to learn again the forgotten art of gaiety . 
Nor , wild as were these painted barbarians , were they the wildest feature of the scene . 
This distinction could more justly be claimed by some mariners a part of the crew of the vessel from the Spanish Main who had come ashore to see the humours of Election Day . 
From beneath their broad brimmed hats of palm leaf , gleamed eyes which , even in good nature and merriment , had a kind of animal ferocity . 
The sailor of that day would go near to be arraigned as a pirate in our own . 
The latter was by far the most showy and gallant figure , so far as apparel went , anywhere to be seen among the multitude . 
He wore a profusion of ribbons on his garment , and gold lace on his hat , which was also encircled by a gold chain , and surmounted with a feather . 
There was a sword at his side and a sword cut on his forehead , which , by the arrangement of his hair , he seemed anxious rather to display than hide . 
As regarded the shipmaster , however , all was looked upon as pertaining to the character , as to a fish his glistening scales . 
So , mistress , said the mariner , I must bid the steward make ready one more berth than you bargained for ! No fear of scurvy or ship fever this voyage . 
What mean you ? inquired Hester , startled more than she permitted to appear . 
They know each other well , indeed , replied Hester , with a mien of calmness , though in the utmost consternation . 
They have long dwelt together . 
Nothing further passed between the mariner and Hester Prynne . 
Soon the head of the procession showed itself , with a slow and stately march , turning a corner , and making its way across the market place . 
This body of soldiery which still sustains a corporate existence , and marches down from past ages with an ancient and honourable fame was composed of no mercenary materials . 
The high estimation then placed upon the military character might be seen in the lofty port of each individual member of the company . 
The entire array , moreover , clad in burnished steel , and with plumage nodding over their bright morions , had a brilliancy of effect which no modern display can aspire to equal . 
And yet the men of civil eminence , who came immediately behind the military escort , were better worth a thoughtful observer's eye . 
Even in outward demeanour they showed a stamp of majesty that made the warrior's haughty stride look vulgar , if not absurd . 
It was an age when what we call talent had far less consideration than now , but the massive materials which produce stability and dignity of character a great deal more . 
The change may be for good or ill , and is partly , perhaps , for both . 
They had fortitude and self reliance , and in time of difficulty or peril stood up for the welfare of the state like a line of cliffs against a tempestuous tide . 
The traits of character here indicated were well represented in the square cast of countenance and large physical development of the new colonial magistrates . 
Next in order to the magistrates came the young and eminently distinguished divine , from whose lips the religious discourse of the anniversary was expected . 
Even political power as in the case of Increase Mather was within the grasp of a successful priest . 
There was no feebleness of step as at other times his frame was not bent , nor did his hand rest ominously upon his heart . 
Yet , if the clergyman were rightly viewed , his strength seemed not of the body . 
It might be spiritual and imparted to him by angelical ministrations . 
It might be the exhilaration of that potent cordial which is distilled only in the furnace glow of earnest and long continued thought . 
Or perchance his sensitive temperament was invigorated by the loud and piercing music that swelled heaven ward , and uplifted him on its ascending wave . 
Nevertheless , so abstracted was his look , it might be questioned whether Mr. Dimmesdale ever heard the music . 
There was his body , moving onward , and with an unaccustomed force . 
One glance of recognition she had imagined must needs pass between them . 
Pearl either saw and responded to her mother's feelings , or herself felt the remoteness and intangibility that had fallen around the minister . 
While the procession passed , the child was uneasy , fluttering up and down , like a bird on the point of taking flight . 
We must not always talk in the marketplace of what happens to us in the forest . 
I could not be sure that it was he so strange he looked , continued the child . 
Else I would have run to him , and bid him kiss me now , before all the people , even as he did yonder among the dark old trees . 
Now , what mortal imagination could conceive it ? whispered the old lady confidentially to Hester . 
It is not for me to talk lightly of a learned and pious minister of the Word , like the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale . 
Fie , woman fie ! cried the old lady , shaking her finger at Hester . 
We may all see it in the sunshine ! and it glows like a red flame in the dark . 
Thou wearest it openly , so there need be no question about that . 
Hast thou seen it ? No matter , darling ! responded Mistress Hibbins , making Pearl a profound reverence . 
Thou thyself wilt see it , one time or another . 
By this time the preliminary prayer had been offered in the meeting house , and the accents of the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale were heard commencing his discourse . 
An irresistible feeling kept Hester near the spot . 
As the sacred edifice was too much thronged to admit another auditor , she took up her position close beside the scaffold of the pillory . 
It was in sufficient proximity to bring the whole sermon to her ears , in the shape of an indistinct but varied murmur and flow of the minister's very peculiar voice . 
Like all other music , it breathed passion and pathos , and emotions high or tender , in a tongue native to the human heart , wherever educated . 
These , perhaps , if more distinctly heard , might have been only a grosser medium , and have clogged the spiritual sense . 
And yet , majestic as the voice sometimes became , there was for ever in it an essential character of plaintiveness . 
During all this time , Hester stood , statue like , at the foot of the scaffold . 
Little Pearl , meanwhile , had quitted her mother's side , and was playing at her own will about the market place . 
She had an undulating , but oftentimes a sharp and irregular movement . 
It indicated the restless vivacity of her spirit , which to day was doubly indefatigable in its tip toe dance , because it was played upon and vibrated with her mother's disquietude . 
She ran and looked the wild Indian in the face , and he grew conscious of a nature wilder than his own . 
So let thy mother take no thought , save for herself and thee . 
Wilt thou tell her this , thou witch baby ? Mistress Hibbins says my father is the Prince of the Air ! cried Pearl , with a naughty smile . 
With her mind harassed by the terrible perplexity in which the shipmaster's intelligence involved her , she was also subjected to another trial . 
These , after exhausting other modes of amusement , now thronged about Hester Prynne with rude and boorish intrusiveness . 
Unscrupulous as it was , however , it could not bring them nearer than a circuit of several yards . 
At that distance they accordingly stood , fixed there by the centrifugal force of the repugnance which the mystic symbol inspired . 
lounged idly to the same quarter , and tormented Hester Prynne , perhaps more than all the rest , with their cool , well acquainted gaze at her familiar shame . 
There was a momentary silence , profound as what should follow the utterance of oracles . 
In a moment more the crowd began to gush forth from the doors of the church . 
In the open air their rapture broke into speech . 
The street and the market place absolutely babbled , from side to side , with applauses of the minister . 
His hearers could not rest until they had told one another of what each knew better than he could tell or hear . 
Such was the position which the minister occupied , as he bowed his head forward on the cushions of the pulpit at the close of his Election Sermon . 
The procession was to be marshalled thence to the town hall , where a solemn banquet would complete the ceremonies of the day . 
When they were fairly in the marketplace , their presence was greeted by a shout . 
Each felt the impulse in himself , and in the same breath , caught it from his neighbour . 
Within the church , it had hardly been kept down beneath the sky it pealed upward to the zenith . 
The shout died into a murmur , as one portion of the crowd after another obtained a glimpse of him . 
The glow , which they had just before beheld burning on his cheek , was extinguished , like a flame that sinks down hopelessly among the late decaying embers . 
The minister tremulously , but decidedly , repelled the old man's arm . 
It summoned him onward inward to the festival ! but here he made a pause . 
Bellingham , for the last few moments , had kept an anxious eye upon him . 
He now left his own place in the procession , and advanced to give assistance judging , from Mr. Dimmesdale's aspect that he must otherwise inevitably fall . 
But there was something in the latter's expression that warned back the magistrate , although a man not readily obeying the vague intimations that pass from one spirit to another . 
The crowd , meanwhile , looked on with awe and wonder . 
The child , with the bird like motion , which was one of her characteristics , flew to him , and clasped her arms about his knees . 
Hester Prynne slowly , as if impelled by inevitable fate , and against her strongest will likewise drew near , but paused before she reached him . 
Madman , hold ! what is your purpose ? whispered he . 
Thy power is not what it was ! With God's help , I shall escape thee now ! He again extended his hand to the woman of the scarlet letter . 
The crowd was in a tumult . 
For , Hester , I am a dying man . 
But he fought back the bodily weakness and , still more , the faintness of heart that was striving for the mastery with him . 
He threw off all assistance , and stepped passionately forward a pace before the woman and the children . 
It was on him ! he continued , with a kind of fierceness so determined was he to speak out tile whole . 
It was revealed ! But it were irreverent to describe that revelation . 
Then , down he sank upon the scaffold ! Hester partly raised him , and supported his head against her bosom . 
Thou hast escaped me ! May God forgive thee ! said the minister . 
Thou , too , hast deeply sinned ! He withdrew his dying eyes from the old man , and fixed them on the woman and the child . 
Towards her mother , too , Pearl's errand as a messenger of anguish was fulfilled . 
Hester , said the clergyman , farewell ! Shall we not meet again ? whispered she , bending her face down close to his . 
God knows and He is merciful ! He hath proved his mercy , most of all , in my afflictions . 
Most of the spectators testified to having seen , on the breast of the unhappy minister , a SCARLET LETTER the very semblance of that worn by Hester Prynne imprinted in the flesh . 
As regarded its origin there were various explanations , all of which must necessarily have been conjectural . 
The reader may choose among these theories . 
But , to all these shadowy beings , so long our near acquaintances as well Roger Chillingworth as his companions we would fain be merciful . 
It is a curious subject of observation and inquiry , whether hatred and love be not the same thing at bottom . 
Leaving this discussion apart , we have a matter of business to communicate to the reader . 
So Pearl the elf child the demon offspring , as some people up to that epoch persisted in considering her became the richest heiress of her day in the New World . 
But , in no long time after the physician's death , the wearer of the scarlet letter disappeared , and Pearl along with her . 
The story of the scarlet letter grew into a legend . 
Near this latter spot , one afternoon some children were at play , when they beheld a tall woman in a gray robe approach the cottage door . 
But her hesitation was only for an instant , though long enough to display a scarlet letter on her breast . 
But through the remainder of Hester's life there were indications that the recluse of the scarlet letter was the object of love and interest with some inhabitant of another land . 
Letters came , with armorial seals upon them , though of bearings unknown to English heraldry . 
In the cottage there were articles of comfort and luxury such as Hester never cared to use , but which only wealth could have purchased and affection have imagined for her . 
There were trifles too , little ornaments , beautiful tokens of a continual remembrance , that must have been wrought by delicate fingers at the impulse of a fond heart . 
But there was a more real life for Hester Prynne , here , in New England , that in that unknown region where Pearl had found a home . 
Here had been her sin here , her sorrow and here was yet to be her penitence . 
Never afterwards did it quit her bosom . 
So said Hester Prynne , and glanced her sad eyes downward at the scarlet letter . 
And , after many , many years , a new grave was delved , near an old and sunken one , in that burial ground beside which King's Chapel has since been built . 
It was near that old and sunken grave , yet with a space between , as if the dust of the two sleepers had no right to mingle . 
Yet one tomb stone served for both . 
