A Sentimental Journey by Laurence Sterne Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk A SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY THROUGH FRANCE AND ITALY They order , said I , this matter better in France . 
You have been in France ? said my gentleman , turning quick upon me , with the most civil triumph in the world . 
No said I the Bourbon is by no means a cruel race they may be misled , like other people but there is a mildness in their blood . 
I'm confident , said I to myself , I should have overset her creed . 
Now , was I King of France , cried I what a moment for an orphan to have begg'd his father's portmanteau of me ! THE MONK . 
I had scarce uttered the words , when a poor monk of the order of St . 
Francis came into the room to beg something for a his convent . 
A better reason was , I had predetermined not to give him a single sous . 
Francis , poor as I am , continued I , pointing at my portmanteau , full cheerfully should it have been open'd to you , for the ransom of the unfortunate . 
The monk made me a bow . 
But of all others , resumed I , the unfortunate of our own country , surely , have the first rights and I have left thousands in distress upon our own shore . 
I have behaved very ill , said I within myself but I have only just set out upon my travels and shall learn better manners as I get along . 
When a man is discontented with himself , it has one advantage however , that it puts him into an excellent frame of mind for making a bargain . 
The first two include all those who travel by land or by water , labouring with pride , curiosity , vanity , or spleen , subdivided and combined ad infinitum . 
Thus the whole circle of travellers may be reduced to the following heads Idle Travellers , Inquisitive Travellers , Lying Travellers , Proud Travellers , Vain Travellers , Splenetic Travellers . 
Even so it fares with the Poor Traveller , sailing and posting through the politer kingdoms of the globe , in pursuit of knowledge and improvements . 
It is an age so full of light , that there is scarce a country or corner in Europe whose beams are not crossed and interchanged with others . 
Knowledge in most of its branches , and in most affairs , is like music in an Italian street , whereof those may partake who pay nothing . 
Your most obedient servant , said I , skipping out of it , and pulling off my hat . 
We were wondering , said one of them , who , I found was an Inquisitive Traveller , what could occasion its motion . 
'Twas the agitation , said I , coolly , of writing a preface . 
I never heard , said the other , who was a Simple Traveller , of a preface wrote in a desobligeant . 
It would have been better , said I , in a vis a vis . 
As an Englishman does not travel to see Englishmen , I retired to my room . 
I perceived that something darken'd the passage more than myself , as I stepp'd along it to my room it was effectually Mons . 
I had wrote myself pretty well out of conceit with the desobligeant , and Mons . 
Dessein's honour to make the most of . 
Four months had elapsed since it had finished its career of Europe in the corner of Mons . 
Now was I the master of this hotel , said I , laying the point of my fore finger on Mons . 
Dessein's breast , I would inevitably make a point of getting rid of this unfortunate desobligeant it stands swinging reproaches at you every time you pass by it . 
MON DIEU ! said Mons . 
Dessein , I have no interest Except the interest , said I , which men of a certain turn of mind take , Mons . 
Dessein made me a bow . 
C'est bien vrai , said he . 
The dose was made up exactly after my own prescription so I could not help tasting it , and , returning Mons . 
Dessein his bow , without more casuistry we walk'd together towards his Remise , to take a view of his magazine of chaises . 
A silence of a single moment upon Mons . 
Dessein's leaving us , had been fatal to the situation she had infallibly turned about so I begun the conversation instantly . 
shall be described with the same simplicity with which I felt them . 
Suspicion crossed my brain and said , he was telling her what had passed something jarred upon it within me , I wished him at his convent . 
When the heart flies out before the understanding , it saves the judgment a world of pains . 
I was certain she was of a better order of beings however , I thought no more of her , but went on and wrote my preface . 
The triumphs of a true feminine heart are short upon these discomfitures . 
She had nothing to add . 
The pulsations of the arteries along my fingers pressing across hers , told her what was passing within me she looked down a silence of some moments followed . 
You shall taste mine said I , pulling out my box and putting it into his hand . 
'Tis most excellent , said the monk . 
The poor monk blush'd as red as scarlet . 
Mon Dieu ! said he , pressing his hands together you never used me unkindly . 
I should think , said the lady , he is not likely . 
I blush'd in my turn but from what movements , I leave to the few who feel , to analyze . 
Excuse me , Madame , replied I , I treated him most unkindly and from no provocations . 
'Tis impossible , said the lady . 
My God ! cried the monk , with a warmth of asseveration which seem'd not to belong to him the fault was in me , and in the indiscretion of my zeal . 
The lady opposed it , and I joined with her in maintaining it was impossible , that a spirit so regulated as his , could give offence to any . 
I knew not that contention could be rendered so sweet and pleasurable a thing to the nerves as I then felt it . 
We dined there yesterday , said the Simple Traveller . 
You go directly through the town , added the other , in your road to Paris . 
I form'd a score different plans . 
There was no such thing as a man's asking her directly the thing was impossible . 
Vous n'etes pas de Londres ? She was not , she replied . 
Then Madame must have come through Flanders . 
Apparemment vous etes Flammande ? said the French captain . 
The lady answered , she was . 
Peut etre de Lisle ? added he . 
She said , she was not of Lisle . 
Nor Arras ? nor Cambray ? nor Ghent ? nor Brussels ? She answered , she was of Brussels . 
so giving her an account of the affair , and of the share he had had in it , he begg'd the honour to know her name , so made his bow . 
Et Madame a son Mari ? said he , looking back when he had made two steps , and , without staying for an answer danced down the street . 
Had I served seven years apprenticeship to good breeding , I could not have done as much . 
As the little French captain left us , Mons . 
Dessein came up with the key of the Remise in his hand , and forthwith let us into his magazine of chaises . 
The first object which caught my eye , as Mons . 
I observed the lady was as little taken with it as myself so Mons . 
They were too good so I pass'd on to a third , which stood behind , and forthwith begun to chaffer for the price . 
But 'twill scarce hold two , said I , opening the door and getting in . 
Have the goodness , Madame , said Mons . 
Dessein , offering his arm , to step in . 
The lady hesitated half a second , and stepped in and the waiter that moment beckoning to speak to Mon . 
Dessein , he shut the door of the chaise upon us , and left us . 
'Tis their fort , replied the lady . 
The lady attended as if she expected I should go on . 
Then I solemnly declare , said the lady , blushing , you have been making love to me all this while . 
Monsieur Dessein came back to let us out of the chaise , and acquaint the lady , the count de L , her brother , was just arrived at the hotel . 
A man my good Sir , has seldom an offer of kindness to make to a woman , but she has a presentiment of it some moments before . 
Nature arms her with it , said I , for immediate preservation . 
But I think , said she , looking in my face , I had no evil to apprehend , and , to deal frankly with you , had determined to accept it . 
I believe your good will would have drawn a story from me , which would have made pity the only dangerous thing in the journey . 
In saying this , she suffered me to kiss her hand twice , and with a look of sensibility mixed with concern , she got out of the chaise , and bid adieu . 
He wrote an account of them , but 'twas nothing but the account of his miserable feelings . 
I met Smelfungus in the grand portico of the Pantheon he was just coming out of it . 
Bartholomew , at every stage he had come at . 
I'll tell it , cried Smelfungus , to the world . 
You had better tell it , said I , to your physician . 
Nothing would the souls of Smelfungus and Mundungus hear of , but fresh anthems of joy , fresh raptures of love , and fresh congratulations of their common felicity . 
Nor was it till I got to Montreuil , upon the landlord's asking me if I wanted not a servant , that it occurred to me , that that was the very thing . 
But why an English one , more than any other ? They are so generous , said the landlord . 
I'll be shot if this is not a livre out of my pocket , quoth I to myself , this very night . 
But they have wherewithal to be so , Monsieur , added he . 
Set down one livre more for that , quoth I. It was but last night , said the landlord , qu'un milord Anglois presentoit un ecu e la fille de chambre . 
Tant mieux , toujours , Monsieur , said he , when there is any thing to be got tant pis , when there is nothing . 
It comes to the same thing , said I. Pardonnez moi , said the landlord . 
A prompt French marquis at our ambassador's table demanded of Mr. H , if he was H the poet ? No , said Mr. H , mildly . 
Tant pis , replied the marquis . 
It is H the historian , said another , Tant mieux , said the marquis . 
And Mr. H , who is a man of an excellent heart , return'd thanks for both . 
Now poor La Fleur could do nothing in the world but beat a drum , and play a march or two upon the fife . 
I was determined to make his talents do and can't say my weakness was ever so insulted by my wisdom as in the attempt . 
But you can do something else , La Fleur ? said I. O qu'oui ! he could make spatterdashes , and play a little upon the fiddle . 
Why , I play a bass myself , said I we shall do very well . 
You can shave , and dress a wig a little , La Fleur ? He had all the dispositions in the world . 
It is enough for heaven ! said I , interrupting him , and ought to be enough for me . 
La Fleur kissed all their hands round and round again , and thrice he wiped his eyes , and thrice he promised he would bring them all pardons from Rome . 
I am heartily glad of it , said I , 'twill save me the trouble every night of putting my breeches under my head . 
But in saying this , sure I am commanding the passion , not myself . 
The town of Abdera , notwithstanding Democritus lived there , trying all the powers of irony and laughter to reclaim it , was the vilest and most profligate town in all Thrace . 
What for poisons , conspiracies , and assassinations , libels , pasquinades , and tumults , there was no going there by day 'twas worse by night . 
A poor tatter'd soul , without a shirt on , instantly withdrew his claim , by retiring two steps out of the circle , and making a disqualifying bow on his part . 
Had the whole parterre cried out , Place aux dames , with one voice , it would not have conveyed the sentiment of a deference for the sex with half the effect . 
The poor little fellow pressed it upon them with a nod of welcomeness . 
Prenez en prenez , said he , looking another way so they each took a pinch . 
Here ! said I to an old soldier with one hand , who had been campaigned and worn out to death in the service here's a couple of sous for thee . 
Vive le Roi ! said the old soldier . 
I had then but three sous left so I gave one , simply , pour l'amour de Dieu , which was the footing on which it was begg'd . 
The poor woman had a dislocated hip so it could not be well upon any other motive . 
Mon cher et tres charitable Monsieur . 
There's no opposing this , said I. Milord Anglois the very sound was worth the money so I gave MY LAST SOUS FOR IT . 
Good God ! said I and I have not one single sous left to give him . 
I could afford nothing for the rest , but Dieu vous benisse ! Et le bon Dieu vous benisse encore , said the old soldier , the dwarf , c . 
The pauvre honteux could say nothing he pull'd out a little handkerchief , and wiped his face as he turned away and I thought he thanked me more than them all . 
he canter'd away before me as happy and as perpendicular as a prince . 
What's the matter , La Fleur , said I , with this bidet of thine ? Monsieur , said he , c'est un cheval le plus opiniatre du monde . 
Peste ! said La Fleur . 
But as these were not to be had in France , I resolved to take every evil just as it befell me , without any exclamation at all . 
As there was no hunting down a frightened horse in jack boots , there remained no alternative but taking La Fleur either behind the chaise , or into it . 
I preferred the latter , and in half an hour we got to the post house at Nampont . 
The man seemed to lament it much and it instantly brought into my mind Sancho's lamentation for his but he did it with more true touches of nature . 
He said he had come last from Spain , where he had been from the furthest borders of Franconia and had got so far on his return home , when his ass died . 
Every one seemed desirous to know what business could have taken so old and poor a man so far a journey from his own home . 
When the mourner got thus far on his story , he stopp'd to pay Nature her tribute , and wept bitterly . 
Every body who stood about , heard the poor fellow with concern . 
La Fleur offered him money . 
The mourner said he did not want it it was not the value of the ass but the loss of him . 
Thou hast one comfort , friend , said I , at least , in the loss of thy poor beast I'm sure thou hast been a merciful master to him . 
Alas ! said the mourner , I thought so when he was alive but now that he is dead , I think otherwise . 
Shame on the world ! said I to myself . 
Did we but love each other as this poor soul loved his ass 'twould be something . 
The concern which the poor fellow's story threw me into required some attention the postilion paid not the least to it , but set off upon the pave in a full gallop . 
On the contrary , as the mourner finished his lamentation , the fellow gave an unfeeling lash to each of his beasts , and set off clattering like a thousand devils . 
I called to him as loud as I could , for heaven's sake to go slower and the louder I called , the more unmercifully he galloped . 
My case then required a different treatment and a good rattling gallop would have been of real service to me . 
Then , prithee , get on get on , my good lad , said I. The postilion pointed to the hill . 
Bless me ! said I , rubbing my eyes , this is the very town where my poor lady is to come . 
I would have given the world to have kiss'd it , but was ashamed . 
to answer Madame's letter , the arrangement gave him an opportunity to recover the faux pas and if not , that things were only as they were . 
'Tis all very well , La Fleur , said I. 'Twas sufficient . 
In short , I was in no mood to write . 
La Fleur stepp'd out and brought a little water in a glass to dilute my ink , then fetch'd sand and seal wax . 
It was all one I wrote , and blotted , and tore off , and burnt , and wrote again . 
Le diable l'emporte ! said I , half to myself , I cannot write this self same letter , throwing the pen down despairingly as I said it . 
I had a mind to let the poor fellow have his humour . 
Then prithee , said I , let me see it . 
Mais vive la joie ! et toute la mienne sera de penser e vous . 
L'amour n'est rien sans sentiment . 
Et le sentiment est encore moins sans amour . 
On dit qu'on ne doit jamais se desesperer . 
On dit aussi que Monsieur le Caporal monte la garde Mercredi alors ce cera mon tour . 
En attendant Vive l'amour ! et vive la bagatelle ! Je suis , Madame , Avec tous les sentimens les plus respectueux et les plus tendres , tout e vous , Jaques Roque . 
So I called La Fleur to go seek me a barber directly , and come back and brush my coat . 
But I fear , friend ! said I , this buckle won't stand . 
You may emerge it , replied he , into the ocean , and it will stand . 
All that can be said against the French sublime , in this instance of it , is this That the grandeur is MORE in the WORD , and LESS in the THING . 
In honest truth , and upon a more candid revision of the matter , The French expression professes more than it performs . 
She was working a pair of ruffles , as she sat in a low chair , on the far side of the shop , facing the door . 
Is it possible ! said she , half laughing . 
'Tis very possible , replied I , when a man is thinking more of a woman than of her good advice . 
As this was the real truth she took it , as every woman takes a matter of right , with a slight curtsey . 
Attendez ! said she , laying her hand upon my arm to detain me , whilst she called a lad out of the back shop to get ready a parcel of gloves . 
He will be ready , Monsieur , said she , in a moment . 
And in that moment , replied I , most willingly would I say something very civil to you for all these courtesies . 
I am sure you must have one of the best pulses of any woman in the world . 
Feel it , said she , holding out her arm . 
So laying down my hat , I took hold of her fingers in one hand , and applied the two forefingers of my other to the artery . 
How wouldst thou have laugh'd and moralized upon my new profession ! and thou shouldst have laugh'd and moralized on . 
Trust me , my dear Eugenius , I should have said , There are worse occupations in this world than feeling a woman's pulse . 
'Twas nobody but her husband , she said so I began a fresh score . 
Monsieur is so good , quoth she , as he pass'd by us , as to give himself the trouble of feeling my pulse . 
And how does it beat , Monsieur ? said she . 
With all the benignity , said I , looking quietly in her eyes , that I expected . 
She was going to say something civil in return but the lad came into the shop with the gloves . 
A propos , said I , I want a couple of pairs myself . 
The beautiful grisette measured them one by one across my hand . 
It would not alter their dimensions . 
She begg'd I would try a single pair , which seemed to be the least . 
She held it open my hand slipped into it at once . 
It will not do , said I , shaking my head a little . 
No , said she , doing the same thing . 
The beautiful grisette looked sometimes at the gloves , then sideways to the window , then at the gloves , and then at me . 
It may seem strange , but I could actually feel she did . 
It is no matter , said I , taking up a couple of the pairs next me , and putting them into my pocket . 
I was sensible the beautiful grisette had not asked above a single livre above the price . 
I wish'd she had asked a livre more , and was puzzling my brains how to bring the matter about . 
There was nobody in the box I was let into but a kindly old French officer . 
For his sake I have a predilection for the whole corps of veterans and so I strode over the two back rows of benches and placed myself beside him . 
The old officer was reading attentively a small pamphlet , it might be the book of the opera , with a large pair of spectacles . 
As soon as I sat down , he took his spectacles off , and putting them into a shagreen case , return'd them and the book into his pocket together . 
I half rose up , and made him a bow . 
I had no power to go into the room , till I had made her so much reparation as to wait and follow her with my eye to the end of the passage . 
She look'd back twice , and walk'd along it rather sideways , as if she would make room for any one coming up stairs to pass her . 
She answered , she was guided by the same intention towards me so we reciprocally thank'd each other . 
Upon my word , Madame , said I , when I had handed her in , I made six different efforts to let you go out . 
And I made six efforts , replied she , to let you enter . 
I wish to heaven you would make a seventh , said I. With all my heart , said she , making room . 
Life is too short to be long about the forms of it , so I instantly stepp'd in , and she carried me home with her . 
And what became of the concert , St . 
No doubt she sports at certain times in almost every corner of the world but in Paris there is no end to her amusements . 
The goddess seems almost as merry as she is wise . 
As I carried my idea out of the Opera Comique with me , I measured every body I saw walking in the streets by it . 
I do not call it getting anything , said he 'tis getting nothing . 
Now , Mr. Shandy being very short , there could be nothing more said of it . 
Upon turning up his face to look at him after , I perceived he was about forty . 
Never mind , said I , some good body will do as much for me when I am ninety . 
Though you stand , as in the parterre , you pay the same price as in the orchestra . 
The German turn'd his head back , looked down upon him as Goliah did upon David , and unfeelingly resumed his posture . 
I was just then taking a pinch of snuff out of my monk's little horn box . 
The German look'd back coolly , and told him he was welcome , if he could reach it . 
An injury sharpen'd by an insult , be it to whom it will , makes every man of sentiment a party I could have leap'd out of the box to have redressed it . 
This is noble ! said I , clapping my hands together . 
And yet you would not permit this , said the old officer , in England . 
In England , dear Sir , said I , WE SIT ALL AT OUR EASE . 
Madame do Rambouliet , after an acquaintance of about six weeks with her , had done me the honour to take me in her coach about two leagues out of town . 
Of all women , Madame de Rambouliet is the most correct and I never wish to see one of more virtues and purity of heart . 
In our return back , Madame de Rambouliet desired me to pull the cord . 
I asked her if she wanted anything Rien que pour pisser , said Madame de Rambouliet . 
Grieve not , gentle traveller , to let Madame de Rambouliet p ss on . 
And , ye fair mystic nymphs ! go each one PLUCK YOUR ROSE , and scatter them in your path , for Madame de Rambouliet did no more . 
I handed Madame de Rambouliet out of the coach and had I been the priest of the chaste Castalia , I could not have served at her fountain with a more respectful decorum . 
The bookseller said he had not a set in the world . 
Comment ! said I , taking one up out of a set which lay upon the counter betwixt us . 
He said they were sent him only to be got bound , and were to be sent back to Versailles in the morning to the Count de B . 
And does the Count de B , said I , read Shakespeare ? C'est un esprit fort , replied the bookseller . 
He loves English books ! and what is more to his honour , Monsieur , he loves the English too . 
You speak this so civilly , said I , that it is enough to oblige an Englishman to lay out a louis d'or or two at your shop . 
As I had nothing more to stay me in the shop , we both walk'd out at the door together . 
Le Dieu m'en garde ! said the girl . 
The young girl listened with a submissive attention , holding her satin purse by its riband in her hand all the time . 
I never gave a girl a crown in my life which gave me half the pleasure . 
The girl was sensible I was civil and said , she wished the Hotel de Modene was in the Rue de St . 
You live there ? said I. She told me she was fille de chambre to Madame R . 
Good God ! said I , 'tis the very lady for whom I have brought a letter from Amiens . 
We stood still at the corner of the Rue de Nevers whilst this pass'd . 
We then stopped a moment whilst she disposed of her Egarements du Coeur c . 
'Tis sweet to feel by what fine spun threads our affections are drawn together . 
We set off afresh , and as she took her third step , the girl put her hand within my arm . 
I was just bidding her , but she did it of herself , with that undeliberating simplicity , which show'd it was out of her head that she had never seen me before . 
She bid me adieu twice . 
But in Paris , as none kiss each other but the men , I did , what amounted to the same thing I bid God bless her . 
When I got home to my hotel , La Fleur told me I had been enquired after by the Lieutenant de Police . 
The deuce take it ! said I , I know the reason . 
Let me get to Paris , Monsieur le Count , said I , and I shall do very well . 
So I embark'd , and never thought more of the matter . 
Mon seigneur ! cried the master of the hotel but recollecting himself as he made the exclamation , he instantly changed the tone of it . 
in all likelihood he has friends in Paris who can procure him one . 
Not that I know of , quoth I , with an air of indifference . 
Then certes , replied he , you'll be sent to the Bastile or the Chatelet au moins . 
Poo ! said I , the King of France is a good natur'd soul he'll hurt nobody . 
Cela n'empeche pas , said he you will certainly be sent to the Bastile to morrow morning . 
But I've taken your lodgings for a month , answer'd I , and I'll not quit them a day before the time for all the kings of France in the world . 
La Fleur whispered in my ear , That nobody could oppose the king of France . 
Pardi ! said my host , ces Messieurs Anglois sont des gens tres extraordinaires and , having both said and sworn it , he went out . 
As soon as the honest creature had taken away , and gone down to sup himself , I then began to think a little seriously about my situation . 
Eugenius , knowing that I was as little subject to be overburden'd with money as thought , had drawn me aside to interrogate me how much I had taken care for . 
Upon telling him the exact sum , Eugenius shook his head , and said it would not do so pull'd out his purse in order to empty it into mine . 
I've enough in conscience , Eugenius , said I. Indeed , Yorick , you have not , replied Eugenius I know France and Italy better than you . 
I beg pardon , said Eugenius drily really I had forgot that resource . 
Now the event I treated gaily came seriously to my door . 
Mercy on the gouty ! for they are in it twice a year . 
to step into the court yard , as I settled this account and remember I walk'd down stairs in no small triumph with the conceit of my reasoning . 
Beshrew the sombre pencil ! said I , vauntingly for I envy not its powers , which paints the evils of life with so hard and deadly a colouring . 
The mind sits terrified at the objects she has magnified herself , and blackened reduce them to their proper size and hue , she overlooks them . 
I was interrupted in the heyday of this soliloquy , with a voice which I took to be of a child , which complained it could not get out . 
I look'd up and down the passage , and seeing neither man , woman , nor child , I went out without farther attention . 
In my return back through the passage , I heard the same words repeated twice over and , looking up , I saw it was a starling hung in a little cage . 
I can't get out , I can't get out , said the starling . 
I can't get out , said the starling . 
I took both hands to it . 
The bird flew to the place where I was attempting his deliverance , and thrusting his head through the trellis pressed his breast against it as if impatient . 
I fear , poor creature ! said I , I cannot set thee at liberty . 
No , said the starling , I can't get out I can't get out , said the starling . 
I was in a right frame for it , and so I gave full scope to my imagination . 
I took a single captive , and having first shut him up in his dungeon , I then look'd through the twilight of his grated door to take his picture . 
I beheld his body half wasted away with long expectation and confinement , and felt what kind of sickness of the heart it was which arises from hope deferr'd . 
His children But here my heart began to bleed and I was forced to go on with another part of the portrait . 
I heard his chains upon his legs , as he turned his body to lay his little stick upon the bundle . 
He gave a deep sigh . 
I saw the iron enter into his soul ! I burst into tears . 
I could not sustain the picture of confinement which my fancy had drawn . 
I'll go directly , said I , myself to Monsieur le Duc de Choiseul . 
I got into my remise the hour I proposed La Fleur got up behind , and I bid the coachman make the best of his way to Versailles . 
to which I own'd myself so much its debtor . 
Upon his master's going on for Italy , the lad had given it to the master of the hotel . 
From that rank he pass'd into the lower house , and pass'd the hands of as many commoners . 
But as all these wanted to GET IN , and my bird wanted to GET OUT , he had almost as little store set by him in London as in Paris . 
I have nothing farther to add upon him , but that from that time to this I have borne this poor starling as the crest to my arms . 
Thus Picture which cannot be reproduced And let the herald's officers twist his neck about if they dare . 
How many mean plans of dirty address , as I went along , did my servile heart form ! I deserved the Bastile for every one of them . 
This will do , said I. Just as well , retorted I again , as a coat carried up to him by an adventurous tailor , without taking his measure . 
Well ! said I , I wish it well over . 
Go to the Duc de C with the Bastile in thy looks my life for it , thou wilt be sent back to Paris in half an hour with an escort . 
I believe so , said I. Then I'll go to the Duke , by heaven ! with all the gaiety and debonairness in the world . 
And there you are wrong again , replied I. A heart at ease , Yorick , flies into no extremes 'tis ever on its centre . 
He replied , that did not increase the difficulty . 
I made him a slight bow , and told him , I had something of importance to say to Monsieur le Duc . 
The secretary look'd towards the stairs , as if he was about to leave me to carry up this account to some one . 
C'est une autre affaire , replied he . 
Not at all , said I , to a man of gallantry . 
But pray , good sir , continued I , when can a stranger hope to have access ? In not less than two hours , said he , looking at his watch . 
I think there is a fatality in it I seldom go to the place I set out for . 
The Count de B , of whom the bookseller at the Quai de Conti had spoke so handsomely the night before , came instantly into my mind . 
In truth it was the third for I had intended that day for Madame de R , in the Rue St . 
La Fleur returned a little pale and told me it was a Chevalier de St . 
I got out of the remise , and went towards him . 
He made an offer of them to neither but stood still with them at the corner of an hotel , for those to buy who chose it without solicitation . 
He was about forty eight of a sedate look , something approaching to gravity . 
The poor Chevalier won my pity , and he finished the scene with winning my esteem too . 
It would be wicked to withhold a pleasure from the good , in passing over what happen'd to this poor Chevalier of St . 
Louis about nine months after . 
There was enough left for the little exigencies of obscurity . 
But he had two boys who looked up to him for light he thought they deserved it . 
He had tried his sword it could not open the way , the mounting was too expensive , and simple economy was not a match for it there was no resource but commerce . 
In any other province in France , save Brittany , this was smiting the root for ever of the little tree his pride and affection wish'd to see re blossom . 
The president accepted the Marquis's sword he staid a few minutes to see it deposited in the archives of his house and departed . 
There was a dead silence . 
When the Marquis had approached within six paces of the tribunal , he gave the Marchioness to his youngest son , and advancing three steps before his family , he reclaim'd his sword . 
I could not be deceived by what followed . 
I shall find , said he , some other way to get it off . 
O , how I envied him his feelings ! THE PASSPORT . 
I found no difficulty in getting admittance to Monsieur le Count de B . 
The set of Shakespeares was laid upon the table , and he was tumbling them over . 
And what is your embarrassment ? let me hear it , said the Count . 
So I told him the story just as I have told it the reader . 
It does not suit the gallantry of the French , Monsieur le Count , said I , to show it against invalids . 
An animated blush came into the Count de B 's cheeks as I spoke this . 
Ne craignez rien Don't fear , said he . 
Indeed , I don't , replied I again . 
, is to desire he will not . 
The Count heard me with great good nature , or I had not said half as much , and once or twice said , C'est bien dit . 
So I rested my cause there and determined to say no more about it . 
The Count led the discourse we talk'd of indifferent things , of books , and politics , and men and then of women . 
The Count said a great many civil things to me upon the occasion and added very politely , how much he stood obliged to Shakespeare for making me known to him . 
But a propos , said he Shakespeare is full of great things he forgot a small punctilio of announcing your name it puts you under a necessity of doing it yourself . 
Good , my Lord said I but there are two Yoricks . 
Good God ! said I , you might as well confound Alexander the Great with Alexander the Coppersmith , my lord ! 'Twas all one , he replied . 
If Alexander , King of Macedon , could have translated your Lordship , said I , I'm sure your Lordship would not have said so . 
The poor Count de B fell but into the same ERROR . 
Et , Monsieur , est il Yorick ? cried the Count . 
Je le suis , said I. Vous ? Moi , moi qui ai l'honneur de vous parler , Monsieur le Comte . 
Mon Dieu ! said he , embracing me , Vous etes Yorick ! The Count instantly put the Shakespeare into his pocket , and left me alone in his room . 
I could not conceive why the Count de B had gone so abruptly out of the room , any more than I could conceive why he had put the Shakespeare into his pocket . 
Surely this is not walking in a vain shadow nor does man disquiet himself in vain by it he oftener does so in trusting the issue of his commotions to reason only . 
Monsieur le Duc de C , said the Count , is as good a prophet , I dare say , as he is a statesman . 
Un homme qui rit , said the Duke , ne sera jamais dangereux . 
Had it been for any one but the king's jester , added the Count , I could not have got it these two hours . 
Pardonnez moi , Monsieur le Count , said I I am not the king's jester . 
But you are Yorick ? Yes . 
Et vous plaisantez ? I answered , Indeed I did jest , but was not paid for it 'twas entirely at my own expense . 
We have no jester at court , Monsieur le Count , said I the last we had was in the licentious reign of Charles II . 
Voila un persiflage ! cried the Count . 
But this is nothing to my travels . 
So I twice , twice beg pardon for it . 
And how do you find the French ? said the Count de B , after he had given me the passport . 
The reader may suppose , that after so obliging a proof of courtesy , I could not be at a loss to say something handsome to the enquiry . 
Mais passe , pour cela . 
Vraiment , said the Count , les Francois sont polis . 
To an excess , replied I. The Count took notice of the word exces and would have it I meant more than I said . 
I defended myself a long time as well as I could against it . 
He insisted I had a reserve , and that I would speak my opinion frankly . 
The Count de B did not understand music , so desired me to explain it some other way . 
Mon Dieu ! cried the Count , rising out of his chair . 
Mais vous plaisantez , said he , correcting his exclamation . 
I laid my hand upon my breast , and with earnest gravity assured him it was my most settled opinion . 
The Count said he was mortified he could not stay to hear my reasons , being engaged to go that moment to dine with the Duc de C . 
But , if you do support it , Monsieur Anglois , said he , you must do it with all your powers , because you have the whole world against you . 
I promised the Count I would do myself the honour of dining with him before I set out for Italy so took my leave . 
When I alighted at the hotel , the porter told me a young woman with a bandbox had been that moment enquiring for me . 
I do not know , said the porter , whether she is gone away or not . 
As the fair fille de chambre was so near my door , she returned back , and went into the room with me for a moment or two whilst I wrote a card . 
But I'll not describe it I felt something at first within me which was not in strict unison with the lesson of virtue I had given her the night before . 
I sought five minutes for a card I knew I had not one . 
I took up a pen . 
I laid it down again my hand trembled the devil was in me . 
Write it , said she , simply , upon anything . 
I was just going to cry out , Then I will write it , fair girl ! upon thy lips . 
In two minutes I found I had all the battle to fight over again and I felt my legs and every limb about me tremble at the idea . 
The foot of the bed was within a yard and a half of the place where we were standing . 
I'll just show you , said the fair fille de chambre , the little purse I have been making to day to hold your crown . 
So she put her hand into her right pocket , which was next me , and felt for it some time then into the left . 
A strap had given way in her walk , and the buckle of her shoe was just falling off . 
See , said the fille de chambre , holding up her foot . 
He pass'd by me without asking anything and yet did not go five steps further before he ask'd charity of a little woman . 
I was much more likely to have given of the two . 
He had scarce done with the woman , when he pull'd off his hat to another who was coming the same way . 
An ancient gentleman came slowly and , after him , a young smart one . 
He let them both pass , and ask'd nothing . 
I stood observing him half an hour , in which time he had made a dozen turns backwards and forwards , and found that he invariably pursued the same plan . 
He never stopp'd a woman , but she pull'd out her purse , and immediately gave him something . 
I could form no system to explain the phenomenon . 
I had got a riddle to amuse me for the rest of the evening so I walk'd upstairs to my chamber . 
I was immediately followed up by the master of the hotel , who came into my room to tell me I must provide lodgings elsewhere . 
It was enough , he said , to overthrow the credit of his hotel . 
Voyez vous , Monsieur , said he , pointing to the foot of the bed we had been sitting upon . 
And does the difference of the time of the day at Paris make a difference in the sin ? It made a difference , he said , in the scandal . 
I like a good distinction in my heart and cannot say I was intolerably out of temper with the man . 
O , my conscience ! said I , she had one but I never look'd into it . 
But I must see her this night , said I. He made me a low bow , and walk'd down . 
Now shall I triumph over this maitre d'hotel , cried I , and what then ? Then I shall let him see I know he is a dirty fellow . 
And what then ? What then ? I was too near myself to say it was for the sake of others . 
I had no good answer left there was more of spleen than principle in my project , and I was sick of it before the execution . 
In a few minutes the grisette came in with her box of lace . 
I'll buy nothing , however , said I , within myself . 
The grisette would show me everything . 
If there is not a fund of honest gullibility in man , so much the worse my heart relented , and I gave up my second resolution as quietly as the first . 
A man who values a good night's rest will not lie down with enmity in his heart , if he can help it . 
C'est deroger e noblesse , Monsieur , said La Fleur , making me a bow down to the ground as he said it . 
he should like to amuse himself , I find no amusement in it , said I , interrupting him . 
Mon Dieu ! said La Fleur , and took away . 
He had bought a bright , clean , good scarlet coat , and a pair of breeches of the same . 
They were not a crown worse , he said , for the wearing . 
I wish'd him hang'd for telling me . 
This is a nicety which makes not the heart sore at Paris . 
He entered the room thus set off , with his hair dressed in the first style , and with a handsome bouquet in his breast . 
Now it was the very thing I intended to do myself vis e vis Madame de R . 
But we must feel , not argue in these embarrassments . 
Behold , Behold , I am thy servant disarms me at once of the powers of a master . 
La Fleur had left me something to amuse myself with for the day more than I had bargain'd for , or could have enter'd either into his head or mine . 
Still it kept hold of me and the difficulty of understanding it increased but the desire . 
I then began and read it as follows . 
that there was another notary here only to set down and attest all this . 
And what would you do then , Monsieur ? said she , rising hastily up . 
The notary's wife was a little fume of a woman , and the notary thought it well to avoid a hurricane by a mild reply . 
I would go , answered he , to bed . 
You may go to the devil , answer'd the notary's wife . 
By this it seems as if the author of the fragment had not been a Frenchman . 
'Tis an ill wind , said a boatman , who catched it , which blows nobody any good . 
The sentry , being a Gascon , incontinently twirled up his whiskers , and levell'd his arquebuss . 
'Tis an ill wind , said he , catching off the notary's castor , and legitimating the capture with the boatman's adage . 
The poor notary crossed the bridge , and passing along the Rue de Dauphine into the fauxbourgs of St . 
It is a story so uncommon , it must be read by all mankind it will make the fortunes of your house . 
The notary dipp'd his pen into his inkhorn . 
THE FRAGMENT , AND THE BOUQUET . 
Then prithee , La Fleur , said I , step back to her to the Count de B 's hotel , and see if thou canst get it . 
There is no doubt of it , said La Fleur and away he flew . 
In a very little time the poor fellow came back quite out of breath , with deeper marks of disappointment in his looks than could arise from the simple irreparability of the fragment . 
Our misfortunes were involved together I gave a sigh , and La Fleur echoed it back again to my ear . 
How perfidious ! cried La Fleur . 
How unlucky ! said I. I should not have been mortified , Monsieur , quoth La Fleur , if she had lost it . 
Nor I , La Fleur , said I , had I found it . 
Whether I did or no will be seen hereafter . 
I count little of the many things I see pass at broad noonday , in large and open streets . 
or wish to get off quietly o'foot when the opera is done . 
I was in black , and scarce seen . 
I could have wish'd to have made them happy their happiness was destin'd that night , to come from another quarter . 
I thought it singular that a beggar should fix the quota of an alms and that the sum should be twelve times as much as what is usually given in the dark . 
They both seemed astonished at it as much as myself . 
Twelve sous ! said one . 
A twelve sous piece ! said the other , and made no reply . 
The poor man said , he knew not how to ask less of ladies of their rank and bow'd down his head to the ground . 
Poo ! said they , we have no money . 
The beggar remained silent for a moment or two , and renew'd his supplication . 
Do not , my fair young ladies , said he , stop your good ears against me . 
Upon my word , honest man ! said the younger , we have no change . 
I'll see , said she , if I have a sous . 
A sous ! give twelve , said the supplicant Nature has been bountiful to you , be bountiful to a poor man . 
I would friend , with all my heart , said the younger , if I had it . 
of some more entertaining guest and in course should have resigned all my places one after another , merely upon the principle that I could not keep them . 
As it was , things did not go much amiss . 
The Marquis de B wish'd to have it thought the affair was somewhere else than in his brain . 
He could like to take a trip to England , and asked much of the English ladies . 
Stay where you are , I beseech you , Monsieur le Marquis , said I. Les Messieurs Anglois can scarce get a kind look from them as it is . 
The Marquis invited me to supper . 
Monsieur P , the farmer general , was just as inquisitive about our taxes . 
They were very considerable , he heard . 
If we knew but how to collect them , said I , making him a low bow . 
I could never have been invited to Mons . 
P 's concerts upon any other terms . 
I had been misrepresented to Madame de Q as an esprit . 
Madame de Q was an esprit herself she burnt with impatience to see me , and hear me talk . 
I had not taken my seat , before I saw she did not care a sous whether I had any wit or no I was let in , to be convinced she had . 
I call heaven to witness I never once opened the door of my lips . 
Madame de V vow'd to every creature she met She had never had a more improving conversation with a man in her life . 
There are three epochas in the empire of a French woman . 
She placed me upon the same sofa with her , for the sake of disputing the point of religion more closely . 
In short Madame de V told me she believed nothing . 
But my dear lady , said I , kissing her hand , 'tis too too soon . 
I declare I had the credit all over Paris of unperverting Madame de V . 
She affirmed to Monsieur D and the Abbe M , that in one half hour I had said more for revealed religion , than all their Encyclopaedia had said against it . 
I was listed directly into Madame de V 's coterie and she put off the epocha of deism for two years . 
The Count de Faineant embraced me with more ardour than ever I was embraced by mortal man . 
For three weeks together I was of every man's opinion I met . 
Pardi ! ce Monsieur Yorick a autant d'esprit que nous autres . 
Il raisonne bien , said another . 
C'est un bon enfant , said a third . 
And at this price I could have eaten and drank and been merry all the days of my life at Paris but 'twas a dishonest reckoning I grew ashamed of it . 
'Tis going , I own , like the Knight of the Woeful Countenance in quest of melancholy adventures . 
But I know not how it is , but I am never so perfectly conscious of the existence of a soul within me , as when I am entangled in them . 
The old mother came to the door her looks told me the story before she open'd her mouth . 
She had lost her husband he had died , she said , of anguish , for the loss of Maria's senses , about a month before . 
Her poor daughter , she said , crying , was wandering somewhere about the road . 
When we had got within half a league of Moulines , at a little opening in the road leading to a thicket , I discovered poor Maria sitting under a poplar . 
She was sitting with her elbow in her lap , and her head leaning on one side within her hand a small brook ran at the foot of the tree . 
I bid the postilion go on with the chaise to Moulines and La Fleur to bespeak my supper and that I would walk after him . 
She was dress'd in white , and much as my friend described her , except that her hair hung loose , which before was twisted within a silk net . 
She had superadded likewise to her jacket , a pale green riband , which fell across her shoulder to the waist at the end of which hung her pipe . 
Thou shalt not leave me , Sylvio , said she . 
I sat down close by her and Maria let me wipe them away as they fell , with my handkerchief . 
I am positive I have a soul nor can all the books with which materialists have pester'd the world ever convince me to the contrary . 
She had since that , she told me , stray'd as far as Rome , and walk'd round St . 
And where will you dry it , Maria ? said I. I'll dry it in my bosom , said she 'twill do me good . 
The string I had touched ceased to vibrate in a moment or two Maria returned to herself , let her pipe fall , and rose up . 
And where are you going , Maria ? said I. She said , to Moulines . 
Let us go , said I , together . 
Maria put her arm within mine , and lengthening the string , to let the dog follow , in that order we enter'd Moulines . 
Touch'd with thee , Eugenius draws my curtain when I languish hears my tale of symptoms , and blames the weather for the disorder of his nerves . 
Thou giv'st a portion of it sometimes to the roughest peasant who traverses the bleakest mountains he finds the lacerated lamb of another's flock . 
The look of the house , and of every thing about it , as we drew nearer , soon reconciled me to the disaster . 
The old man and his wife came out last , and placing me betwixt them , sat down upon a sofa of turf by the door . 
The old man had some fifty years ago been no mean performer upon the vielle , and at the age he was then of , touch'd it well enough for the purpose . 
His wife sung now and then a little to the tune , then intermitted , and join'd her old man again , as their children and grand children danced before them . 
The peasants had been all day at work in removing a fragment of this kind between St . 
I left not the lady a moment to make a conjecture about it so instantly made a declaration that I would do anything in my power . 
The lady was a Piedmontese of about thirty , with a glow of health in her cheeks . 
The maid was a Lyonoise of twenty , and as brisk and lively a French girl as ever moved . 
It is required on the part of Madame , that Monsieur shall lie the whole night through in his robe de chambre . 
Rejected inasmuch as Monsieur is not worth a robe de chambre he having nothing in his portmanteau but six shirts and a black silk pair of breeches . 
Granted provided Monsieur's saying his prayers might not be deemed an infraction of the treaty . 
I begg'd a thousand pardons but insisted it was no more than an ejaculation . 
She maintained 'twas an entire infraction of the treaty I maintained it was provided for in the clause of the third article . 
Upon my word and honour , Madame , said I , stretching my arm out of bed by way of asseveration . 
Plate , napkin , knife , fork and spoon . 
