CHAPTER The family of Dashwood had long been settled in Sussex . 
In the society of his nephew and niece , and their children , the old Gentleman's days were comfortably spent . 
His attachment to them all increased . 
By a former marriage , Mr. Henry Dashwood had one son by his present lady , three daughters . 
By his own marriage , likewise , which happened soon afterwards , he added to his wealth . 
The old gentleman died his will was read , and like almost every other will , gave as much disappointment as pleasure . 
He meant not to be unkind , however , and , as a mark of his affection for the three girls , he left them a thousand pounds a piece . 
But the fortune , which had been so tardy in coming , was his only one twelvemonth . 
He survived his uncle no longer and ten thousand pounds , including the late legacies , was all that remained for his widow and daughters . 
His father was rendered easy by such an assurance , and Mr. John Dashwood had then leisure to consider how much there might prudently be in his power to do for them . 
But Mrs. John Dashwood was a strong caricature of himself more narrow minded and selfish . 
When he gave his promise to his father , he meditated within himself to increase the fortunes of his sisters by the present of a thousand pounds a piece . 
He then really thought himself equal to it . 
Yes , he would give them three thousand pounds it would be liberal and handsome ! It would be enough to make them completely easy . 
Three thousand pounds ! he could spare so considerable a sum with little inconvenience . 
He thought of it all day long , and for many days successively , and he did not repent . 
No sooner was his father's funeral over , than Mrs. John Dashwood , without sending any notice of her intention to her mother in law , arrived with her child and their attendants . 
Marianne's abilities were , in many respects , quite equal to Elinor's . 
She was sensible and clever but eager in everything her sorrows , her joys , could have no moderation . 
She was generous , amiable , interesting she was everything but prudent . 
The resemblance between her and her mother was strikingly great . 
Elinor saw , with concern , the excess of her sister's sensibility but by Mrs. Dashwood it was valued and cherished . 
They encouraged each other now in the violence of their affliction . 
The agony of grief which overpowered them at first , was voluntarily renewed , was sought for , was created again and again . 
They gave themselves up wholly to their sorrow , seeking increase of wretchedness in every reflection that could afford it , and resolved against ever admitting consolation in future . 
Elinor , too , was deeply afflicted but still she could struggle , she could exert herself . 
CHAPTER Mrs. John Dashwood now installed herself mistress of Norland and her mother and sisters in law were degraded to the condition of visitors . 
A continuance in a place where everything reminded her of former delight , was exactly what suited her mind . 
In seasons of cheerfulness , no temper could be more cheerful than hers , or possess , in a greater degree , that sanguine expectation of happiness which is happiness itself . 
But in sorrow she must be equally carried away by her fancy , and as far beyond consolation as in pleasure she was beyond alloy . 
Mrs. John Dashwood did not at all approve of what her husband intended to do for his sisters . 
To take three thousand pounds from the fortune of their dear little boy would be impoverishing him to the most dreadful degree . 
She begged him to think again on the subject . 
He did not know what he was talking of , I dare say ten to one but he was light headed at the time . 
Had he been in his right senses , he could not have thought of such a thing as begging you to give away half your fortune from your own child . 
Perhaps it would have been as well if he had left it wholly to myself . 
He could hardly suppose I should neglect them . 
But as he required the promise , I could not do less than give it at least I thought so at the time . 
The promise , therefore , was given , and must be performed . 
Something must be done for them whenever they leave Norland and settle in a new home . 
Well , then , LET something be done for them but THAT something need not be three thousand pounds . 
Consider , she added , that when the money is once parted with , it never can return . 
Your sisters will marry , and it will be gone for ever . 
If , indeed , it could be restored to our poor little boy Why , to be sure , said her husband , very gravely , that would make great difference . 
The time may come when Harry will regret that so large a sum was parted with . 
If he should have a numerous family , for instance , it would be a very convenient addition . 
To be sure it would . 
Perhaps , then , it would be better for all parties , if the sum were diminished one half . 
One had rather , on such occasions , do too much than too little . 
No one , at least , can think I have not done enough for them even themselves , they can hardly expect more . 
There is no knowing what THEY may expect , said the lady , but we are not to think of their expectations the question is , what you can afford to do . 
Certainly and I think I may afford to give them five hundred pounds a piece . 
As it is , without any addition of mine , they will each have about three thousand pounds on their mother's death a very comfortable fortune for any young woman . 
To be sure it is and , indeed , it strikes me that they can want no addition at all . 
They will have ten thousand pounds divided amongst them . 
If they marry , they will be sure of doing well , and if they do not , they may all live very comfortably together on the interest of ten thousand pounds . 
My sisters would feel the good effects of it as well as herself . 
A hundred a year would make them all perfectly comfortable . 
His wife hesitated a little , however , in giving her consent to this plan . 
To be sure , said she , it is better than parting with fifteen hundred pounds at once . 
But , then , if Mrs. Dashwood should live fifteen years we shall be completely taken in . 
Fifteen years ! my dear Fanny her life cannot be worth half that purchase . 
Certainly not but if you observe , people always live for ever when there is an annuity to be paid them and she is very stout and healthy , and hardly forty . 
An annuity is a very serious business it comes over and over every year , and there is no getting rid of it . 
You are not aware of what you are doing . 
My mother was quite sick of it . 
It has given me such an abhorrence of annuities , that I am sure I would not pin myself down to the payment of one for all the world . 
It is certainly an unpleasant thing , replied Mr. Dashwood , to have those kind of yearly drains on one's income . 
One's fortune , as your mother justly says , is NOT one's own . 
To be tied down to the regular payment of such a sum , on every rent day , is by no means desirable it takes away one's independence . 
Undoubtedly and after all you have no thanks for it . 
They think themselves secure , you do no more than what is expected , and it raises no gratitude at all . 
If I were you , whatever I did should be done at my own discretion entirely . 
I would not bind myself to allow them any thing yearly . 
It may be very inconvenient some years to spare a hundred , or even fifty pounds from our own expenses . 
It will certainly be much the best way . 
A present of fifty pounds , now and then , will prevent their ever being distressed for money , and will , I think , be amply discharging my promise to my father . 
To be sure it will . 
Indeed , to say the truth , I am convinced within myself that your father had no idea of your giving them any money at all . 
I'll lay my life that he meant nothing farther indeed , it would be very strange and unreasonable if he did . 
They will be much more able to give YOU something . 
Upon my word , said Mr. Dashwood , I believe you are perfectly right . 
My father certainly could mean nothing more by his request to me than what you say . 
I clearly understand it now , and I will strictly fulfil my engagement by such acts of assistance and kindness to them as you have described . 
When my mother removes into another house my services shall be readily given to accommodate her as far as I can . 
Some little present of furniture too may be acceptable then . 
Certainly , returned Mrs. John Dashwood . 
But , however , ONE thing must be considered . 
Her house will therefore be almost completely fitted up as soon as she takes it . 
That is a material consideration undoubtedly . 
A valuable legacy indeed ! And yet some of the plate would have been a very pleasant addition to our own stock here . 
Yes and the set of breakfast china is twice as handsome as what belongs to this house . 
A great deal too handsome , in my opinion , for any place THEY can ever afford to live in . 
But , however , so it is . 
Your father thought only of THEM . 
Mrs. Dashwood had been informed by her husband of the solemn promise on the part of his son in their favour , which gave comfort to his last earthly reflections . 
But Mrs. Dashwood was alike uninfluenced by either consideration . 
It was enough for her that he appeared to be amiable , that he loved her daughter , and that Elinor returned the partiality . 
Edward Ferrars was not recommended to their good opinion by any peculiar graces of person or address . 
He was not handsome , and his manners required intimacy to make them pleasing . 
He was too diffident to do justice to himself but when his natural shyness was overcome , his behaviour gave every indication of an open , affectionate heart . 
His understanding was good , and his education had given it solid improvement . 
But he was neither fitted by abilities nor disposition to answer the wishes of his mother and sister , who longed to see him distinguished as they hardly knew what . 
They wanted him to make a fine figure in the world in some manner or other . 
His mother wished to interest him in political concerns , to get him into parliament , or to see him connected with some of the great men of the day . 
But Edward had no turn for great men or barouches . 
All his wishes centered in domestic comfort and the quiet of private life . 
Fortunately he had a younger brother who was more promising . 
She saw only that he was quiet and unobtrusive , and she liked him for it . 
He did not disturb the wretchedness of her mind by ill timed conversation . 
She was first called to observe and approve him farther , by a reflection which Elinor chanced one day to make on the difference between him and his sister . 
It was a contrast which recommended him most forcibly to her mother . 
It is enough , said she to say that he is unlike Fanny is enough . 
I think you will like him , said Elinor , when you know more of him . 
Like him ! replied her mother with a smile . 
I feel no sentiment of approbation inferior to love . 
I have never yet known what it was to separate esteem and love . 
Mrs. Dashwood now took pains to get acquainted with him . 
Her manners were attaching , and soon banished his reserve . 
No sooner did she perceive any symptom of love in his behaviour to Elinor , than she considered their serious attachment as certain , and looked forward to their marriage as rapidly approaching . 
In a few months , my dear Marianne . 
said she , Elinor will , in all probability be settled for life . 
We shall miss her but SHE will be happy . 
Oh ! Mamma , how shall we do without her ? My love , it will be scarcely a separation . 
We shall live within a few miles of each other , and shall meet every day of our lives . 
You will gain a brother , a real , affectionate brother . 
I have the highest opinion in the world of Edward's heart . 
But you look grave , Marianne do you disapprove your sister's choice ? Perhaps , said Marianne , I may consider it with some surprise . 
Edward is very amiable , and I love him tenderly . 
His eyes want all that spirit , that fire , which at once announce virtue and intelligence . 
And besides all this , I am afraid , Mamma , he has no real taste . 
Music seems scarcely to attract him , and though he admires Elinor's drawings very much , it is not the admiration of a person who can understand their worth . 
It is evident , in spite of his frequent attention to her while she draws , that in fact he knows nothing of the matter . 
He admires as a lover , not as a connoisseur . 
To satisfy me , those characters must be united . 
I could not be happy with a man whose taste did not in every point coincide with my own . 
He must enter into all my feelings the same books , the same music must charm us both . 
Oh ! mama , how spiritless , how tame was Edward's manner in reading to us last night ! I felt for my sister most severely . 
Yet she bore it with so much composure , she seemed scarcely to notice it . 
I could hardly keep my seat . 
I thought so at the time but you WOULD give him Cowper . 
Nay , Mamma , if he is not to be animated by Cowper ! but we must allow for difference of taste . 
Elinor has not my feelings , and therefore she may overlook it , and be happy with him . 
But it would have broke MY heart , had I loved him , to hear him read with so little sensibility . 
Mama , the more I know of the world , the more am I convinced that I shall never see a man whom I can really love . 
I require so much ! He must have all Edward's virtues , and his person and manners must ornament his goodness with every possible charm . 
Remember , my love , that you are not seventeen . 
It is yet too early in life to despair of such a happiness . 
Had he ever been in the way of learning , I think he would have drawn very well . 
Yet , though smiling within herself at the mistake , she honoured her sister for that blind partiality to Edward which produced it . 
I hope , Marianne , continued Elinor , you do not consider him as deficient in general taste . 
Marianne hardly knew what to say . 
She would not wound the feelings of her sister on any account , and yet to say what she did not believe was impossible . 
At length she replied Do not be offended , Elinor , if my praise of him is not in every thing equal to your sense of his merits . 
I think him every thing that is worthy and amiable . 
I am sure , replied Elinor , with a smile , that his dearest friends could not be dissatisfied with such commendation as that . 
I do not perceive how you could express yourself more warmly . 
Marianne was rejoiced to find her sister so easily pleased . 
Of his sense and his goodness , continued Elinor , no one can , I think , be in doubt , who has seen him often enough to engage him in unreserved conversation . 
The excellence of his understanding and his principles can be concealed only by that shyness which too often keeps him silent . 
You know enough of him to do justice to his solid worth . 
But of his minuter propensities , as you call them you have from peculiar circumstances been kept more ignorant than myself . 
He and I have been at times thrown a good deal together , while you have been wholly engrossed on the most affectionate principle by my mother . 
His abilities in every respect improve as much upon acquaintance as his manners and person . 
At present , I know him so well , that I think him really handsome or at least , almost so . 
What say you , Marianne ? I shall very soon think him handsome , Elinor , if I do not now . 
When you tell me to love him as a brother , I shall no more see imperfection in his face , than I now do in his heart . 
Elinor started at this declaration , and was sorry for the warmth she had been betrayed into , in speaking of him . 
She felt that Edward stood very high in her opinion . 
She believed the regard to be mutual but she required greater certainty of it to make Marianne's conviction of their attachment agreeable to her . 
She knew that what Marianne and her mother conjectured one moment , they believed the next that with them , to wish was to hope , and to hope was to expect . 
She tried to explain the real state of the case to her sister . 
I do not attempt to deny , said she , that I think very highly of him that I greatly esteem , that I like him . 
Marianne here burst forth with indignation Esteem him ! Like him ! Cold hearted Elinor ! Oh ! worse than cold hearted ! Ashamed of being otherwise . 
Use those words again , and I will leave the room this moment . 
Elinor could not help laughing . 
Excuse me , said she and be assured that I meant no offence to you , by speaking , in so quiet a way , of my own feelings . 
But farther than this you must not believe . 
I am by no means assured of his regard for me . 
In my heart I feel little scarcely any doubt of his preference . 
But there are other points to be considered besides his inclination . 
He is very far from being independent . 
Marianne was astonished to find how much the imagination of her mother and herself had outstripped the truth . 
And you really are not engaged to him ! said she . 
Yet it certainly soon will happen . 
But two advantages will proceed from this delay . 
I shall not lose you so soon , and Edward will have greater opportunity of improving that natural taste for your favourite pursuit which must be so indispensably necessary to your future felicity . 
She could not consider her partiality for Edward in so prosperous a state as Marianne had believed it . 
There was , at times , a want of spirits about him which , if it did not denote indifference , spoke a something almost as unpromising . 
A doubt of her regard , supposing him to feel it , need not give him more than inquietude . 
It would not be likely to produce that dejection of mind which frequently attended him . 
A more reasonable cause might be found in the dependent situation which forbad the indulgence of his affection . 
With such a knowledge as this , it was impossible for Elinor to feel easy on the subject . 
She was far from depending on that result of his preference of her , which her mother and sister still considered as certain . 
In this state of her spirits , a letter was delivered to her from the post , which contained a proposal particularly well timed . 
It was the offer of a small house , on very easy terms , belonging to a relation of her own , a gentleman of consequence and property in Devonshire . 
The letter was from this gentleman himself , and written in the true spirit of friendly accommodation . 
She needed no time for deliberation or inquiry . 
Her resolution was formed as she read . 
Elinor had always thought it would be more prudent for them to settle at some distance from Norland , than immediately amongst their present acquaintance . 
On THAT head , therefore , it was not for her to oppose her mother's intention of removing into Devonshire . 
They heard her with surprise . 
Mrs. John Dashwood said nothing but her husband civilly hoped that she would not be settled far from Norland . 
She had great satisfaction in replying that she was going into Devonshire . 
It was within four miles northward of Exeter . 
It is but a cottage , she continued , but I hope to see many of my friends in it . 
A room or two can easily be added and if my friends find no difficulty in travelling so far to see me , I am sure I will find none in accommodating them . 
She concluded with a very kind invitation to Mr. and Mrs. John Dashwood to visit her at Barton and to Edward she gave one with still greater affection . 
He really felt conscientiously vexed on the occasion for the very exertion to which he had limited the performance of his promise to his father was by this arrangement rendered impracticable . 
The furniture was all sent around by water . 
It chiefly consisted of household linen , plate , china , and books , with a handsome pianoforte of Marianne's . 
Mrs. Dashwood took the house for a twelvemonth it was ready furnished , and she might have immediate possession . 
For the comfort of her children , had she consulted only her own wishes , she would have kept it but the discretion of Elinor prevailed . 
HER wisdom too limited the number of their servants to three two maids and a man , with whom they were speedily provided from amongst those who had formed their establishment at Norland . 
Now was the time when her son in law's promise to his father might with particular propriety be fulfilled . 
Since he had neglected to do it on first coming to the estate , their quitting his house might be looked on as the most suitable period for its accomplishment . 
Many were the tears shed by them in their last adieus to a place so much beloved . 
It was a pleasant fertile spot , well wooded , and rich in pasture . 
After winding along it for more than a mile , they reached their own house . 
A small green court was the whole of its demesne in front and a neat wicket gate admitted them into it . 
A narrow passage led directly through the house into the garden behind . 
On each side of the entrance was a sitting room , about sixteen feet square and beyond them were the offices and the stairs . 
Four bed rooms and two garrets formed the rest of the house . 
It had not been built many years and was in good repair . 
In comparison of Norland , it was poor and small indeed ! but the tears which recollection called forth as they entered the house were soon dried away . 
They were cheered by the joy of the servants on their arrival , and each for the sake of the others resolved to appear happy . 
The situation of the house was good . 
High hills rose immediately behind , and at no great distance on each side some of which were open downs , the others cultivated and woody . 
The village of Barton was chiefly on one of these hills , and formed a pleasant view from the cottage windows . 
The prospect in front was more extensive it commanded the whole of the valley , and reached into the country beyond . 
The hills which surrounded the cottage terminated the valley in that direction under another name , and in another course , it branched out again between two of the steepest of them . 
Perhaps in the spring , if I have plenty of money , as I dare say I shall , we may think about building . 
I could wish the stairs were handsome . 
But one must not expect every thing though I suppose it would be no difficult matter to widen them . 
I shall see how much I am before hand with the world in the spring , and we will plan our improvements accordingly . 
Marianne's pianoforte was unpacked and properly disposed of and Elinor's drawings were affixed to the walls of their sitting room . 
Sir John Middleton was a good looking man about forty . 
He had formerly visited at Stanhill , but it was too long for his young cousins to remember him . 
His countenance was thoroughly good humoured and his manners were as friendly as the style of his letter . 
Their arrival seemed to afford him real satisfaction , and their comfort to be an object of real solicitude to him . 
He insisted , moreover , on conveying all their letters to and from the post for them , and would not be denied the satisfaction of sending them his newspaper every day . 
Lady Middleton was not more than six or seven and twenty her face was handsome , her figure tall and striking , and her address graceful . 
Her manners had all the elegance which her husband's wanted . 
On every formal visit a child ought to be of the party , by way of provision for discourse . 
CHAPTER Barton Park was about half a mile from the cottage . 
The ladies had passed near it in their way along the valley , but it was screened from their view at home by the projection of a hill . 
The house was large and handsome and the Middletons lived in a style of equal hospitality and elegance . 
The former was for Sir John's gratification , the latter for that of his lady . 
They were scarcely ever without some friends staying with them in the house , and they kept more company of every kind than any other family in the neighbourhood . 
Sir John was a sportsman , Lady Middleton a mother . 
He hunted and shot , and she humoured her children and these were their only resources . 
Lady Middleton had the advantage of being able to spoil her children all the year round , while Sir John's independent employments were in existence only half the time . 
Lady Middleton piqued herself upon the elegance of her table , and of all her domestic arrangements and from this kind of vanity was her greatest enjoyment in any of their parties . 
The Miss Dashwoods were young , pretty , and unaffected . 
It was enough to secure his good opinion for to be unaffected was all that a pretty girl could want to make her mind as captivating as her person . 
The friendliness of his disposition made him happy in accommodating those , whose situation might be considered , in comparison with the past , as unfortunate . 
They would see , he said , only one gentleman there besides himself a particular friend who was staying at the park , but who was neither very young nor very gay . 
He hoped they would all excuse the smallness of the party , and could assure them it should never happen so again . 
He had been to several families that morning in hopes of procuring some addition to their number , but it was moonlight and every body was full of engagements . 
The young ladies , as well as their mother , were perfectly satisfied with having two entire strangers of the party , and wished for no more . 
Mrs. Jennings , Lady Middleton's mother , was a good humoured , merry , fat , elderly woman , who talked a great deal , seemed very happy , and rather vulgar . 
He was silent and grave . 
In the evening , as Marianne was discovered to be musical , she was invited to play . 
Marianne's performance was highly applauded . 
Sir John was loud in his admiration at the end of every song , and as loud in his conversation with the others while every song lasted . 
Colonel Brandon alone , of all the party , heard her without being in raptures . 
He paid her only the compliment of attention and she felt a respect for him on the occasion , which the others had reasonably forfeited by their shameless want of taste . 
She was perfectly disposed to make every allowance for the colonel's advanced state of life which humanity required . 
CHAPTER Mrs. Jennings was a widow with an ample jointure . 
In the promotion of this object she was zealously active , as far as her ability reached and missed no opportunity of projecting weddings among all the young people of her acquaintance . 
She was perfectly convinced of it . 
It would be an excellent match , for HE was rich , and SHE was handsome . 
The immediate advantage to herself was by no means inconsiderable , for it supplied her with endless jokes against them both . 
At the park she laughed at the colonel , and in the cottage at Marianne . 
But at least , Mamma , you cannot deny the absurdity of the accusation , though you may not think it intentionally ill natured . 
Mamma , you are not doing me justice . 
I know very well that Colonel Brandon is not old enough to make his friends yet apprehensive of losing him in the course of nature . 
He may live twenty years longer . 
But thirty five has nothing to do with matrimony . 
Perhaps , said Elinor , thirty five and seventeen had better not have any thing to do with matrimony together . 
In his marrying such a woman therefore there would be nothing unsuitable . 
It would be a compact of convenience , and the world would be satisfied . 
In my eyes it would be no marriage at all , but that would be nothing . 
To me it would seem only a commercial exchange , in which each wished to be benefited at the expense of the other . 
of a slight rheumatic feel in one of his shoulders . 
Had he been only in a violent fever , you would not have despised him half so much . 
I am sure Edward Ferrars is not well . 
We have now been here almost a fortnight , and yet he does not come . 
Nothing but real indisposition could occasion this extraordinary delay . 
What else can detain him at Norland ? Had you any idea of his coming so soon ? said Mrs. Dashwood . 
Does Elinor expect him already ? I have never mentioned it to her , but of course she must . 
Twice did I leave them purposely together in the course of the last morning , and each time did he most unaccountably follow me out of the room . 
And Elinor , in quitting Norland and Edward , cried not as I did . 
Even now her self command is invariable . 
There were but few who could be so classed and it was not all of them that were attainable . 
The whole country about them abounded in beautiful walks . 
Is there a felicity in the world , said Marianne , superior to this ? Margaret , we will walk here at least two hours . 
Chagrined and surprised , they were obliged , though unwillingly , to turn back , for no shelter was nearer than their own house . 
A gentleman carrying a gun , with two pointers playing round him , was passing up the hill and within a few yards of Marianne , when her accident happened . 
He put down his gun and ran to her assistance . 
She had raised herself from the ground , but her foot had been twisted in her fall , and she was scarcely able to stand . 
The gentleman offered his services and perceiving that her modesty declined what her situation rendered necessary , took her up in his arms without farther delay , and carried her down the hill . 
She thanked him again and again and , with a sweetness of address which always attended her , invited him to be seated . 
But this he declined , as he was dirty and wet . 
Mrs. Dashwood then begged to know to whom she was obliged . 
The honour was readily granted , and he then departed , to make himself still more interesting , in the midst of an heavy rain . 
His manly beauty and more than common gracefulness were instantly the theme of general admiration , and the laugh which his gallantry raised against Marianne received particular spirit from his exterior attractions . 
But she had seen enough of him to join in all the admiration of the others , and with an energy which always adorned her praise . 
Every circumstance belonging to him was interesting . 
His name was good , his residence was in their favourite village , and she soon found out that of all manly dresses a shooting jacket was the most becoming . 
Her imagination was busy , her reflections were pleasant , and the pain of a sprained ankle was disregarded . 
Willoughby ! cried Sir John what , is HE in the country ? That is good news however I will ride over tomorrow , and ask him to dinner on Thursday . 
You know him then , said Mrs. Dashwood . 
Know him ! to be sure I do . 
Why , he is down here every year . 
And what sort of a young man is he ? As good a kind of fellow as ever lived , I assure you . 
A very decent shot , and there is not a bolder rider in England . 
And is that all you can say for him ? cried Marianne , indignantly . 
But what are his manners on more intimate acquaintance ? What his pursuits , his talents , and genius ? Sir John was rather puzzled . 
Upon my soul , said he , I do not know much about him as to all THAT . 
But he is a pleasant , good humoured fellow , and has got the nicest little black bitch of a pointer I ever saw . 
But who is he ? said Elinor . 
Miss Marianne must not expect to have all the men to herself . 
Brandon will be jealous , if she does not take care . 
It is not an employment to which they have been brought up . 
Men are very safe with us , let them be ever so rich . 
I am glad to find , however , from what you say , that he is a respectable young man , and one whose acquaintance will not be ineligible . 
He is as good a sort of fellow , I believe , as ever lived , repeated Sir John . 
I remember last Christmas at a little hop at the park , he danced from eight o'clock till four , without once sitting down . 
Did he indeed ? cried Marianne with sparkling eyes , and with elegance , with spirit ? Yes and he was up again at eight to ride to covert . 
That is what I like that is what a young man ought to be . 
Whatever be his pursuits , his eagerness in them should know no moderation , and leave him no sense of fatigue . 
Aye , aye , I see how it will be , said Sir John , I see how it will be . 
You will be setting your cap at him now , and never think of poor Brandon . 
That is an expression , Sir John , said Marianne , warmly , which I particularly dislike . 
I abhor every common place phrase by which wit is intended and 'setting one's cap at a man , or 'making a conquest , are the most odious of all . 
Their tendency is gross and illiberal and if their construction could ever be deemed clever , time has long ago destroyed all its ingenuity . 
CHAPTER Marianne's preserver , as Margaret , with more elegance than precision , styled Willoughby , called at the cottage early the next morning to make his personal enquiries . 
Of their personal charms he had not required a second interview to be convinced . 
Miss Dashwood had a delicate complexion , regular features , and a remarkably pretty figure . 
From Willoughby their expression was at first held back , by the embarrassment which the remembrance of his assistance created . 
It was only necessary to mention any favourite amusement to engage her to talk . 
She could not be silent when such points were introduced , and she had neither shyness nor reserve in their discussion . 
They speedily discovered that their enjoyment of dancing and music was mutual , and that it arose from a general conformity of judgment in all that related to either . 
Their taste was strikingly alike . 
He acquiesced in all her decisions , caught all her enthusiasm and long before his visit concluded , they conversed with the familiarity of a long established acquaintance . 
Well , Marianne , said Elinor , as soon as he had left them , for ONE morning I think you have done pretty well . 
You have already ascertained Mr. Willoughby's opinion in almost every matter of importance . 
But how is your acquaintance to be long supported , under such extraordinary despatch of every subject for discourse ? You will soon have exhausted each favourite topic . 
Another meeting will suffice to explain his sentiments on picturesque beauty , and second marriages , and then you can have nothing farther to ask . 
Elinor , cried Marianne , is this fair ? is this just ? are my ideas so scanty ? But I see what you mean . 
I have been too much at my ease , too happy , too frank . 
My love , said her mother , you must not be offended with Elinor she was only in jest . 
I should scold her myself , if she were capable of wishing to check the delight of your conversation with our new friend . 
Marianne was softened in a moment . 
Willoughby , on his side , gave every proof of his pleasure in their acquaintance , which an evident wish of improving it could offer . 
He came to them every day . 
She was confined for some days to the house but never had any confinement been less irksome . 
Willoughby was a young man of good abilities , quick imagination , lively spirits , and open , affectionate manners . 
His society became gradually her most exquisite enjoyment . 
They read , they talked , they sang together his musical talents were considerable and he read with all the sensibility and spirit which Edward had unfortunately wanted . 
Colonel Brandon's partiality for Marianne , which had so early been discovered by his friends , now first became perceptible to Elinor , when it ceased to be noticed by them . 
She liked him in spite of his gravity and reserve , she beheld in him an object of interest . 
His manners , though serious , were mild and his reserve appeared rather the result of some oppression of spirits than of any natural gloominess of temper . 
Sir John had dropped hints of past injuries and disappointments , which justified her belief of his being an unfortunate man , and she regarded him with respect and compassion . 
That is exactly what I think of him , cried Marianne . 
Do not boast of it , however , said Elinor , for it is injustice in both of you . 
He is highly esteemed by all the family at the park , and I never see him myself without taking pains to converse with him . 
That he is patronised by YOU , replied Willoughby , is certainly in his favour but as for the esteem of the others , it is a reproach in itself . 
If their praise is censure , your censure may be praise , for they are not more undiscerning , than you are prejudiced and unjust . 
In defence of your protege you can even be saucy . 
My protege , as you call him , is a sensible man and sense will always have attractions for me . 
Yes , Marianne , even in a man between thirty and forty . 
He has seen a great deal of the world has been abroad , has read , and has a thinking mind . 
I have found him capable of giving me much information on various subjects and he has always answered my inquiries with readiness of good breeding and good nature . 
That is to say , cried Marianne contemptuously , he has told you , that in the East Indies the climate is hot , and the mosquitoes are troublesome . 
He WOULD have told me so , I doubt not , had I made any such inquiries , but they happened to be points on which I had been previously informed . 
Perhaps , said Willoughby , his observations may have extended to the existence of nabobs , gold mohrs , and palanquins . 
I may venture to say that HIS observations have stretched much further than your candour . 
But why should you dislike him ? I do not dislike him . 
Add to which , cried Marianne , that he has neither genius , taste , nor spirit . 
That his understanding has no brilliancy , his feelings no ardour , and his voice no expression . 
I can only pronounce him to be a sensible man , well bred , well informed , of gentle address , and , I believe , possessing an amiable heart . 
Miss Dashwood , cried Willoughby , you are now using me unkindly . 
You are endeavouring to disarm me by reason , and to convince me against my will . 
But it will not do . 
You shall find me as stubborn as you can be artful . 
If it will be any satisfaction to you , however , to be told , that I believe his character to be in other respects irreproachable , I am ready to confess it . 
And in return for an acknowledgment , which must give me some pain , you cannot deny me the privilege of disliking him as much as ever . 
Yet such was the case . 
When Marianne was recovered , the schemes of amusement at home and abroad , which Sir John had been previously forming , were put into execution . 
The private balls at the park then began and parties on the water were made and accomplished as often as a showery October would allow . 
Elinor could not be surprised at their attachment . 
She only wished that it were less openly shewn and once or twice did venture to suggest the propriety of some self command to Marianne . 
Willoughby thought the same and their behaviour at all times , was an illustration of their opinions . 
When he was present she had no eyes for any one else . 
Every thing he did , was right . 
Every thing he said , was clever . 
If their evenings at the park were concluded with cards , he cheated himself and all the rest of the party to get her a good hand . 
Such conduct made them of course most exceedingly laughed at but ridicule could not shame , and seemed hardly to provoke them . 
Mrs. Dashwood entered into all their feelings with a warmth which left her no inclination for checking this excessive display of them . 
To her it was but the natural consequence of a strong affection in a young and ardent mind . 
This was the season of happiness to Marianne . 
Elinor's happiness was not so great . 
Her heart was not so much at ease , nor her satisfaction in their amusements so pure . 
They afforded her no companion that could make amends for what she had left behind , nor that could teach her to think of Norland with less regret than ever . 
Lady Middleton was more agreeable than her mother only in being more silent . 
Elinor needed little observation to perceive that her reserve was a mere calmness of manner with which sense had nothing to do . 
Towards her husband and mother she was the same as to them and intimacy was therefore neither to be looked for nor desired . 
She had nothing to say one day that she had not said the day before . 
Willoughby was out of the question . 
Colonel Brandon , unfortunately for himself , had no such encouragement to think only of Marianne , and in conversing with Elinor he found the greatest consolation for the indifference of her sister . 
Elinor's compassion for him increased , as she had reason to suspect that the misery of disappointed love had already been known to him . 
This suspicion was given by some words which accidently dropped from him one evening at the park , when they were sitting down together by mutual consent , while the others were dancing . 
No , replied Elinor , her opinions are all romantic . 
Or rather , as I believe , she considers them impossible to exist . 
But how she contrives it without reflecting on the character of her own father , who had himself two wives , I know not . 
I cannot agree with you there , said Elinor . 
There are inconveniences attending such feelings as Marianne's , which all the charms of enthusiasm and ignorance of the world cannot atone for . 
Her systems have all the unfortunate tendency of setting propriety at nought and a better acquaintance with the world is what I look forward to as her greatest possible advantage . 
I only know that I never yet heard her admit any instance of a second attachment's being pardonable . 
The lady would probably have passed without suspicion , had he not convinced Miss Dashwood that what concerned her ought not to escape his lips . 
As it was , it required but a slight effort of fancy to connect his emotion with the tender recollection of past regard . 
But Marianne , in her place , would not have done so little . 
The whole story would have been speedily formed under her active imagination and every thing established in the most melancholy order of disastrous love . 
He intends to send his groom into Somersetshire immediately for it , she added , and when it arrives we will ride every day . 
You shall share its use with me . 
Imagine to yourself , my dear Elinor , the delight of a gallop on some of these downs . 
Most unwilling was she to awaken from such a dream of felicity to comprehend all the unhappy truths which attended the affair and for some time she refused to submit to them . 
Elinor then ventured to doubt the propriety of her receiving such a present from a man so little , or at least so lately known to her . 
You are mistaken , Elinor , said she warmly , in supposing I know very little of Willoughby . 
I have not known him long indeed , but I am much better acquainted with him , than I am with any other creature in the world , except yourself and mama . 
It is not time or opportunity that is to determine intimacy it is disposition alone . 
Seven years would be insufficient to make some people acquainted with each other , and seven days are more than enough for others . 
I should hold myself guilty of greater impropriety in accepting a horse from my brother , than from Willoughby . 
Of John I know very little , though we have lived together for years but of Willoughby my judgment has long been formed . 
Elinor thought it wisest to touch that point no more . 
She knew her sister's temper . 
Opposition on so tender a subject would only attach her the more to her own opinion . 
The reasons for this alteration were at the same time related , and they were such as to make further entreaty on his side impossible . 
I shall keep it only till you can claim it . 
When you leave Barton to form your own establishment in a more lasting home , Queen Mab shall receive you . 
Margaret related something to her the next day , which placed this matter in a still clearer light . 
Oh , Elinor ! she cried , I have such a secret to tell you about Marianne . 
I am sure she will be married to Mr. Willoughby very soon . 
But indeed this is quite another thing . 
I am sure they will be married very soon , for he has got a lock of her hair . 
It may be only the hair of some great uncle of HIS . 
But , indeed , Elinor , it is Marianne's . 
I am almost sure it is , for I saw him cut it off . 
Margaret's sagacity was not always displayed in a way so satisfactory to her sister . 
But the effort was painful . 
She was convinced that Margaret had fixed on a person whose name she could not bear with composure to become a standing joke with Mrs. Jennings . 
I never had any conjectures about it , replied Margaret it was you who told me of it yourself . 
This increased the mirth of the company , and Margaret was eagerly pressed to say something more . 
Oh ! pray , Miss Margaret , let us know all about it , said Mrs. Jennings . 
What is the gentleman's name ? I must not tell , ma'am . 
But I know very well what it is and I know where he is too . 
Yes , yes , we can guess where he is at his own house at Norland to be sure . 
He is the curate of the parish I dare say . 
No , THAT he is not . 
He is of no profession at all . 
Margaret , said Marianne with great warmth , you know that all this is an invention of your own , and that there is no such person in existence . 
Willoughby opened the piano forte , and asked Marianne to sit down to it and thus amidst the various endeavours of different people to quit the topic , it fell to the ground . 
But not so easily did Elinor recover from the alarm into which it had thrown her . 
CHAPTER Their intended excursion to Whitwell turned out very different from what Elinor had expected . 
She was prepared to be wet through , fatigued , and frightened but the event was still more unfortunate , for they did not go at all . 
By ten o'clock the whole party was assembled at the park , where they were to breakfast . 
The morning was rather favourable , though it had rained all night , as the clouds were then dispersing across the sky , and the sun frequently appeared . 
They were all in high spirits and good humour , eager to be happy , and determined to submit to the greatest inconveniences and hardships rather than be otherwise . 
While they were at breakfast the letters were brought in . 
Among the rest there was one for Colonel Brandon he took it , looked at the direction , changed colour , and immediately left the room . 
What is the matter with Brandon ? said Sir John . 
I hope he has had no bad news , said Lady Middleton . 
It must be something extraordinary that could make Colonel Brandon leave my breakfast table so suddenly . 
In about five minutes he returned . 
No bad news , Colonel , I hope said Mrs. Jennings , as soon as he entered the room . 
None at all , ma'am , I thank you . 
Was it from Avignon ? I hope it is not to say that your sister is worse . 
It came from town , and is merely a letter of business . 
My dear madam , said Lady Middleton , recollect what you are saying . 
Perhaps it is to tell you that your cousin Fanny is married ? said Mrs. Jennings , without attending to her daughter's reproof . 
No , indeed , it is not . 
Well , then , I know who it is from , Colonel . 
And I hope she is well . 
Whom do you mean , ma'am ? said he , colouring a little . 
Oh ! you know who I mean . 
In town ! cried Mrs. Jennings . 
We must go , said Sir John . 
It shall not be put off when we are so near it . 
You cannot go to town till tomorrow , Brandon , that is all . 
I wish it could be so easily settled . 
You would not be six hours later , said Willoughby , if you were to defer your journey till our return . 
I cannot afford to lose ONE hour . 
Elinor then heard Willoughby say , in a low voice to Marianne , There are some people who cannot bear a party of pleasure . 
Brandon is one of them . 
He was afraid of catching cold I dare say , and invented this trick for getting out of it . 
I would lay fifty guineas the letter was of his own writing . 
I have no doubt of it , replied Marianne . 
There is no persuading you to change your mind , Brandon , I know of old , said Sir John , when once you are determined on anything . 
But , however , I hope you will think better of it . 
Colonel Brandon again repeated his sorrow at being the cause of disappointing the party but at the same time declared it to be unavoidable . 
But it is so uncertain , when I may have it in my power to return , that I dare not engage for it at all . 
Oh ! he must and shall come back , cried Sir John . 
If he is not here by the end of the week , I shall go after him . 
Ay , so do , Sir John , cried Mrs. Jennings , and then perhaps you may find out what his business is . 
I do not want to pry into other men's concerns . 
I suppose it is something he is ashamed of . 
Colonel Brandon's horses were announced . 
You do not go to town on horseback , do you ? added Sir John . 
I shall then go post . 
Well , as you are resolved to go , I wish you a good journey . 
But you had better change your mind . 
I assure you it is not in my power . 
He then took leave of the whole party . 
Is there no chance of my seeing you and your sisters in town this winter , Miss Dashwood ? I am afraid , none at all . 
Then I must bid you farewell for a longer time than I should wish to do . 
To Marianne , he merely bowed and said nothing . 
Come Colonel , said Mrs. Jennings , before you go , do let us know what you are going about . 
He wished her a good morning , and , attended by Sir John , left the room . 
The complaints and lamentations which politeness had hitherto restrained , now burst forth universally and they all agreed again and again how provoking it was to be so disappointed . 
I can guess what his business is , however , said Mrs. Jennings exultingly . 
Can you , ma'am ? said almost every body . 
Yes it is about Miss Williams , I am sure . 
And who is Miss Williams ? asked Marianne . 
What ! do not you know who Miss Williams is ? I am sure you must have heard of her before . 
She is a relation of the Colonel's , my dear a very near relation . 
We will not say how near , for fear of shocking the young ladies . 
Then , lowering her voice a little , she said to Elinor , She is his natural daughter . 
Indeed ! Oh , yes and as like him as she can stare . 
I dare say the Colonel will leave her all his fortune . 
The carriages were then ordered Willoughby's was first , and Marianne never looked happier than when she got into it . 
They both seemed delighted with their drive but said only in general terms that they had kept in the lanes , while the others went on the downs . 
It was settled that there should be a dance in the evening , and that every body should be extremely merry all day long . 
Some more of the Careys came to dinner , and they had the pleasure of sitting down nearly twenty to table , which Sir John observed with great contentment . 
Willoughby took his usual place between the two elder Miss Dashwoods . 
I know where you spent the morning . 
I hope you like your house , Miss Marianne . 
Marianne turned away in great confusion . 
As soon as they left the dining room , Elinor enquired of her about it and great was her surprise when she found that every circumstance related by Mrs. Jennings was perfectly true . 
Marianne was quite angry with her for doubting it . 
Mr. Willoughby however is the only person who can have a right to shew that house and as he went in an open carriage , it was impossible to have any other companion . 
I never spent a pleasanter morning in my life . 
I am afraid , replied Elinor , that the pleasantness of an employment does not always evince its propriety . 
I value not her censure any more than I should do her commendation . 
I am not sensible of having done anything wrong in walking over Mrs. Smith's grounds , or in seeing her house . 
They will one day be Mr. Willoughby's , and If they were one day to be your own , Marianne , you would not be justified in what you have done . 
There is one remarkably pretty sitting room up stairs of a nice comfortable size for constant use , and with modern furniture it would be delightful . 
It is a corner room , and has windows on two sides . 
Could Elinor have listened to her without interruption from the others , she would have described every room in the house with equal delight . 
Something very melancholy must be the matter , I am sure , said she . 
I could see it in his face . 
Poor man ! I am afraid his circumstances may be bad . 
The estate at Delaford was never reckoned more than two thousand a year , and his brother left everything sadly involved . 
I do think he must have been sent for about money matters , for what else can it be ? I wonder whether it is so . 
I would give anything to know the truth of it . 
Perhaps it is about Miss Williams and , by the bye , I dare say it is , because he looked so conscious when I mentioned her . 
May be she is ill in town nothing in the world more likely , for I have a notion she is always rather sickly . 
I would lay any wager it is about Miss Williams . 
I wonder what it can be ! May be his sister is worse at Avignon , and has sent for him over . 
His setting off in such a hurry seems very like it . 
Well , I wish him out of all his trouble with all my heart , and a good wife into the bargain . 
So wondered , so talked Mrs. Jennings . 
Her opinion varying with every fresh conjecture , and all seeming equally probable as they arose . 
It was engossed by the extraordinary silence of her sister and Willoughby on the subject , which they must know to be peculiarly interesting to them all . 
As this silence continued , every day made it appear more strange and more incompatible with the disposition of both . 
Why they should not openly acknowledge to her mother and herself , what their constant behaviour to each other declared to have taken place , Elinor could not imagine . 
She could easily conceive that marriage might not be immediately in their power for though Willoughby was independent , there was no reason to believe him rich . 
Nothing could be more expressive of attachment to them all , than Willoughby's behaviour . 
To Marianne it had all the distinguishing tenderness which a lover's heart could give , and to the rest of the family it was the affectionate attention of a son and a brother . 
What ! he exclaimed Improve this dear cottage ! No. THAT I will never consent to . 
Not a stone must be added to its walls , not an inch to its size , if my feelings are regarded . 
Do not be alarmed , said Miss Dashwood , nothing of the kind will be done for my mother will never have money enough to attempt it . 
I am heartily glad of it , he cried . 
May she always be poor , if she can employ her riches no better . 
But you may be assured that I would not sacrifice one sentiment of local attachment of yours , or of any one whom I loved , for all the improvements in the world . 
But are you really so attached to this place as to see no defect in it ? I am , said he . 
To me it is faultless . 
With dark narrow stairs and a kitchen that smokes , I suppose , said Elinor . 
Yes , cried he in the same eager tone , with all and every thing belonging to it in no one convenience or INconvenience about it , should the least variation be perceptible . 
Then , and then only , under such a roof , I might perhaps be as happy at Combe as I have been at Barton . 
There certainly are circumstances , said Willoughby , which might greatly endear it to me but this place will always have one claim of my affection , which no other can possibly share . 
Mrs. Dashwood looked with pleasure at Marianne , whose fine eyes were fixed so expressively on Willoughby , as plainly denoted how well she understood him . 
Must it not have been so , Marianne ? speaking to her in a lowered voice . 
Mrs. Dashwood again assured him that no alteration of the kind should be attempted . 
You are a good woman , he warmly replied . 
Your promise makes me easy . 
Extend it a little farther , and it will make me happy . 
The promise was readily given , and Willoughby's behaviour during the whole of the evening declared at once his affection and happiness . 
Shall we see you tomorrow to dinner ? said Mrs. Dashwood , when he was leaving them . 
I do not ask you to come in the morning , for we must walk to the park , to call on Lady Middleton . 
He engaged to be with them by four o'clock . 
On their return from the park they found Willoughby's curricle and servant in waiting at the cottage , and Mrs. Dashwood was convinced that her conjecture had been just . 
So far it was all as she had foreseen but on entering the house she beheld what no foresight had taught her to expect . 
They were no sooner in the passage than Marianne came hastily out of the parlour apparently in violent affliction , with her handkerchief at her eyes and without noticing them ran up stairs . 
Surprised and alarmed they proceeded directly into the room she had just quitted , where they found only Willoughby , who was leaning against the mantel piece with his back towards them . 
He turned round on their coming in , and his countenance shewed that he strongly partook of the emotion which over powered Marianne . 
Mrs. Smith has this morning exercised the privilege of riches upon a poor dependent cousin , by sending me on business to London . 
I have just received my dispatches , and taken my farewell of Allenham and by way of exhilaration I am now come to take my farewell of you . 
To London ! and are you going this morning ? Almost this moment . 
But Mrs. Smith must be obliged and her business will not detain you from us long I hope . 
He coloured as he replied , You are very kind , but I have no idea of returning into Devonshire immediately . 
My visits to Mrs. Smith are never repeated within the twelvemonth . 
Mrs. Dashwood looked at Elinor with surprise . 
For a few moments every one was silent . 
My engagements at present , replied Willoughby , confusedly , are of such a nature that I dare not flatter myself He stopt . 
Mrs. Dashwood was too much astonished to speak , and another pause succeeded . 
This was broken by Willoughby , who said with a faint smile , It is folly to linger in this manner . 
I will not torment myself any longer by remaining among friends whose society it is impossible for me now to enjoy . 
He then hastily took leave of them all and left the room . 
They saw him step into his carriage , and in a minute it was out of sight . 
Mrs. Dashwood felt too much for speech , and instantly quitted the parlour to give way in solitude to the concern and alarm which this sudden departure occasioned . 
Elinor's uneasiness was at least equal to her mother's . 
She thought of what had just passed with anxiety and distrust . 
In about half an hour her mother returned , and though her eyes were red , her countenance was not uncheerful . 
So suddenly to be gone ! It seems but the work of a moment . 
He did not speak , he did not behave like himself . 
He had not the power of accepting it . 
I have thought it all over I assure you , and I can perfectly account for every thing that at first seemed strange to me as well as to you . 
Can you , indeed ! Yes . 
and on that account is eager to get him away and that the business which she sends him off to transact is invented as an excuse to dismiss him . 
This is what I believe to have happened . 
And now , Elinor , what have you to say ? Nothing , for you have anticipated my answer . 
Then you would have told me , that it might or might not have happened . 
Oh , Elinor , how incomprehensible are your feelings ! You had rather take evil upon credit than good . 
You had rather look out for misery for Marianne , and guilt for poor Willoughby , than an apology for the latter . 
You are resolved to think him blameable , because he took leave of us with less affection than his usual behaviour has shewn . 
But suspicion of something unpleasant is the inevitable consequence of such an alteration as we just witnessed in him . 
Willoughby may undoubtedly have very sufficient reasons for his conduct , and I will hope that he has . 
But it would have been more like Willoughby to acknowledge them at once . 
Secrecy may be advisable but still I cannot help wondering at its being practiced by him . 
Do not blame him , however , for departing from his character , where the deviation is necessary . 
But you really do admit the justice of what I have said in his defence ? I am happy and he is acquitted . 
from Mrs. Smith and if that is the case , it must be highly expedient for Willoughby to be but little in Devonshire at present . 
But this is no excuse for their concealing it from us . 
I want no proof of their affection , said Elinor but of their engagement I do . 
I am perfectly satisfied of both . 
Yet not a syllable has been said to you on the subject , by either of them . 
I have not wanted syllables where actions have spoken so plainly . 
Has he been acting a part in his behaviour to your sister all this time ? Do you suppose him really indifferent to her ? No , I cannot think that . 
He must and does love her I am sure . 
But with a strange kind of tenderness , if he can leave her with such indifference , such carelessness of the future , as you attribute to him . 
You must remember , my dear mother , that I have never considered this matter as certain . 
I have had my doubts , I confess but they are fainter than they were , and they may soon be entirely done away . 
If we find they correspond , every fear of mine will be removed . 
A mighty concession indeed ! If you were to see them at the altar , you would suppose they were going to be married . 
Ungracious girl ! But I require no such proof . 
Nothing in my opinion has ever passed to justify doubt no secrecy has been attempted all has been uniformly open and unreserved . 
You cannot doubt your sister's wishes . 
It must be Willoughby therefore whom you suspect . 
I love Willoughby , sincerely love him and suspicion of his integrity cannot be more painful to yourself than to me . 
It has been involuntary , and I will not encourage it . 
I was startled , I confess , by the alteration in his manners this morning he did not speak like himself , and did not return your kindness with any cordiality . 
But all this may be explained by such a situation of his affairs as you have supposed . 
Willoughby certainly does not deserve to be suspected . 
They saw nothing of Marianne till dinner time , when she entered the room and took her place at the table without saying a word . 
Her eyes were red and swollen and it seemed as if her tears were even then restrained with difficulty . 
This violent oppression of spirits continued the whole evening . 
She was without any power , because she was without any desire of command over herself . 
CHAPTER Marianne would have thought herself very inexcusable had she been able to sleep at all the first night after parting from Willoughby . 
But the feelings which made such composure a disgrace , left her in no danger of incurring it . 
She was awake the whole night , and she wept the greatest part of it . 
The evening passed off in the equal indulgence of feeling . 
She spent whole hours at the pianoforte alternately singing and crying her voice often totally suspended by her tears . 
In books too , as well as in music , she courted the misery which a contrast between the past and present was certain of giving . 
She read nothing but what they had been used to read together . 
No letter from Willoughby came and none seemed expected by Marianne . 
Her mother was surprised , and Elinor again became uneasy . 
But Mrs. Dashwood could find explanations whenever she wanted them , which at least satisfied herself . 
Remember , Elinor , said she , how very often Sir John fetches our letters himself from the post , and carries them to it . 
We have already agreed that secrecy may be necessary , and we must acknowledge that it could not be maintained if their correspondence were to pass through Sir John's hands . 
Elinor could not deny the truth of this , and she tried to find in it a motive sufficient for their silence . 
It would be the natural result of your affection for her . 
She used to be all unreserve , and to you more especially . 
I would not ask such a question for the world . 
Supposing it possible that they are not engaged , what distress would not such an enquiry inflict ! At any rate it would be most ungenerous . 
I should never deserve her confidence again , after forcing from her a confession of what is meant at present to be unacknowledged to any one . 
I would not attempt to force the confidence of any one of a child much less because a sense of duty would prevent the denial which her wishes might direct . 
We will put it by , that when he comes again . 
But it may be months , perhaps , before THAT happens . 
Months ! cried Marianne , with strong surprise . 
Mrs. Dashwood was sorry for what she had said but it gave Elinor pleasure , as it produced a reply from Marianne so expressive of confidence in Willoughby and knowledge of his intentions . 
One morning , about a week after his leaving the country , Marianne was prevailed on to join her sisters in their usual walk , instead of wandering away by herself . 
Hitherto she had carefully avoided every companion in her rambles . 
But at length she was secured by the exertions of Elinor , who greatly disapproved such continual seclusion . 
Amongst the objects in the scene , they soon discovered an animated one it was a man on horseback riding towards them . 
The person is not tall enough for him , and has not his air . 
He has , he has , cried Marianne , I am sure he has . 
His air , his coat , his horse . 
I knew how soon he would come . 
They were soon within thirty yards of the gentleman . 
He dismounted , and giving his horse to his servant , walked back with them to Barton , whither he was purposely coming to visit them . 
He was welcomed by them all with great cordiality , but especially by Marianne , who showed more warmth of regard in her reception of him than even Elinor herself . 
To Marianne , indeed , the meeting between Edward and her sister was but a continuation of that unaccountable coldness which she had often observed at Norland in their mutual behaviour . 
On Edward's side , more particularly , there was a deficiency of all that a lover ought to look and say on such an occasion . 
Marianne saw and listened with increasing surprise . 
After a short silence which succeeded the first surprise and enquiries of meeting , Marianne asked Edward if he came directly from London . 
No , he had been in Devonshire a fortnight . 
A fortnight ! she repeated , surprised at his being so long in the same county with Elinor without seeing her before . 
He looked rather distressed as he added , that he had been staying with some friends near Plymouth . 
Have you been lately in Sussex ? said Elinor . 
I was at Norland about a month ago . 
And how does dear , dear Norland look ? cried Marianne . 
Dear , dear Norland , said Elinor , probably looks much as it always does at this time of the year . 
The woods and walks thickly covered with dead leaves . 
They are seen only as a nuisance , swept hastily off , and driven as much as possible from the sight . 
It is not every one , said Elinor , who has your passion for dead leaves . 
No my feelings are not often shared , not often understood . 
Look up to it , and be tranquil if you can . 
Look at those hills ! Did you ever see their equals ? To the left is Barton park , amongst those woods and plantations . 
You may see the end of the house . 
And there , beneath that farthest hill , which rises with such grandeur , is our cottage . 
It is a beautiful country , he replied but these bottoms must be dirty in winter . 
How strange ! said Marianne to herself as she walked on . 
Have you an agreeable neighbourhood here ? Are the Middletons pleasant people ? No , not all , answered Marianne we could not be more unfortunately situated . 
Have you forgot , Marianne , how many pleasant days we have owed to them ? No , said Marianne , in a low voice , nor how many painful moments . 
extorting from him occasional questions and remarks . 
CHAPTER Mrs. Dashwood was surprised only for a moment at seeing him for his coming to Barton was , in her opinion , of all things the most natural . 
Her joy and expression of regard long outlived her wonder . 
He received the kindest welcome from her and shyness , coldness , reserve could not stand against such a reception . 
They had begun to fail him before he entered the house , and they were quite overcome by the captivating manners of Mrs. Dashwood . 
His affections seemed to reanimate towards them all , and his interest in their welfare again became perceptible . 
He was not in spirits , however he praised their house , admired its prospect , was attentive , and kind but still he was not in spirits . 
The whole family perceived it , and Mrs. Dashwood , attributing it to some want of liberality in his mother , sat down to table indignant against all selfish parents . 
I shall not attempt it . 
I have no wish to be distinguished and have every reason to hope I never shall . 
Thank Heaven ! I cannot be forced into genius and eloquence . 
You have no ambition , I well know . 
Your wishes are all moderate . 
As moderate as those of the rest of the world , I believe . 
I wish as well as every body else to be perfectly happy but , like every body else it must be in my own way . 
Greatness will not make me so . 
Strange that it would ! cried Marianne . 
What have wealth or grandeur to do with happiness ? Grandeur has but little , said Elinor , but wealth has much to do with it . 
Elinor , for shame ! said Marianne , money can only give happiness where there is nothing else to give it . 
Beyond a competence , it can afford no real satisfaction , as far as mere self is concerned . 
Perhaps , said Elinor , smiling , we may come to the same point . 
Your ideas are only more noble than mine . 
Come , what is your competence ? About eighteen hundred or two thousand a year not more than THAT . 
TWO thousand a year ! ONE is my wealth ! I guessed how it would end . 
And yet two thousand a year is a very moderate income , said Marianne . 
A family cannot well be maintained on a smaller . 
I am sure I am not extravagant in my demands . 
A proper establishment of servants , a carriage , perhaps two , and hunters , cannot be supported on less . 
Elinor smiled again , to hear her sister describing so accurately their future expenses at Combe Magna . 
Hunters ! repeated Edward but why must you have hunters ? Every body does not hunt . 
Marianne coloured as she replied , But most people do . 
We are all unanimous in that wish , I suppose , said Elinor , in spite of the insufficiency of wealth . 
Oh dear ! cried Margaret , how happy I should be ! I wonder what I should do with it ! Marianne looked as if she had no doubt on that point . 
I should be puzzled to spend so large a fortune myself , said Mrs. Dashwood , if my children were all to be rich my help . 
You must begin your improvements on this house , observed Elinor , and your difficulties will soon vanish . 
Should not you , Marianne ? Forgive me , if I am very saucy . 
But I was willing to shew you that I had not forgot our old disputes . 
I love to be reminded of the past , Edward whether it be melancholy or gay , I love to recall it and you will never offend me by talking of former times . 
You are very right in supposing how my money would be spent some of it , at least my loose cash would certainly be employed in improving my collection of music and books . 
And the bulk of your fortune would be laid out in annuities on the authors or their heirs . 
No , Edward , I should have something else to do with it . 
At my time of life opinions are tolerably fixed . 
It is not likely that I should now see or hear any thing to change them . 
Marianne is as steadfast as ever , you see , said Elinor , she is not at all altered . 
She is only grown a little more grave than she was . 
Nay , Edward , said Marianne , you need not reproach me . 
You are not very gay yourself . 
Why should you think so ! replied he , with a sigh . 
But gaiety never was a part of MY character . 
I believe you are right , he replied , and yet I have always set her down as a lively girl . 
Sometimes one is guided by what they say of themselves , and very frequently by what other people say of them , without giving oneself time to deliberate and judge . 
But I thought it was right , Elinor , said Marianne , to be guided wholly by the opinion of other people . 
I thought our judgments were given us merely to be subservient to those of neighbours . 
This has always been your doctrine , I am sure . 
No , Marianne , never . 
My doctrine has never aimed at the subjection of the understanding . 
All I have ever attempted to influence has been the behaviour . 
You must not confound my meaning . 
My judgment , he returned , is all on your side of the question but I am afraid my practice is much more on your sister's . 
I never wish to offend , but I am so foolishly shy , that I often seem negligent , when I am only kept back by my natural awkwardness . 
She knows her own worth too well for false shame , replied Edward . 
Shyness is only the effect of a sense of inferiority in some way or other . 
If I could persuade myself that my manners were perfectly easy and graceful , I should not be shy . 
But you would still be reserved , said Marianne , and that is worse . 
Edward started Reserved ! Am I reserved , Marianne ? Yes , very . 
I do not understand you , replied he , colouring . 
His gravity and thoughtfulness returned on him in their fullest extent and he sat for some time silent and dull . 
CHAPTER Elinor saw , with great uneasiness the low spirits of her friend . 
His visit afforded her but a very partial satisfaction , while his own enjoyment in it appeared so imperfect . 
But before she was half way upstairs she heard the parlour door open , and , turning round , was astonished to see Edward himself come out . 
I am going into the village to see my horses , said be , as you are not yet ready for breakfast I shall be back again presently . 
You must be satisfied with such admiration as I can honestly give . 
I know nothing of the picturesque . 
He is fastidious and will have an affectation of his own . 
It is very true , said Marianne , that admiration of landscape scenery is become a mere jargon . 
Every body pretends to feel and tries to describe with the taste and elegance of him who first defined what picturesque beauty was . 
I am convinced , said Edward , that you really feel all the delight in a fine prospect which you profess to feel . 
But , in return , your sister must allow me to feel no more than I profess . 
I like a fine prospect , but not on picturesque principles . 
I do not like crooked , twisted , blasted trees . 
I admire them much more if they are tall , straight , and flourishing . 
I do not like ruined , tattered cottages . 
I am not fond of nettles or thistles , or heath blossoms . 
I have more pleasure in a snug farm house than a watch tower and a troop of tidy , happy villages please me better than the finest banditti in the world . 
Marianne looked with amazement at Edward , with compassion at her sister . 
The subject was continued no farther and Marianne remained thoughtfully silent , till a new object suddenly engaged her attention . 
I never saw you wear a ring before , Edward , she cried . 
Is that Fanny's hair ? I remember her promising to give you some . 
But I should have thought her hair had been darker . 
Marianne spoke inconsiderately what she really felt but when she saw how much she had pained Edward , her own vexation at her want of thought could not be surpassed by his . 
He coloured very deeply , and giving a momentary glance at Elinor , replied , Yes it is my sister's hair . 
The setting always casts a different shade on it , you know . 
Elinor had met his eye , and looked conscious likewise . 
Edward's embarrassment lasted some time , and it ended in an absence of mind still more settled . 
He was particularly grave the whole morning . 
Marianne severely censured herself for what she had said but her own forgiveness might have been more speedy , had she known how little offence it had given her sister . 
But , as it was , she only learned , from some very significant looks , how far their penetration , founded on Margaret's instructions , extended . 
Sir John never came to the Dashwoods without either inviting them to dine at the park the next day , or to drink tea with them that evening . 
On the present occasion , for the better entertainment of their visitor , towards whose amusement he felt himself bound to contribute , he wished to engage them for both . 
Mrs. Jennings enforced the necessity . 
And who knows but you may raise a dance , said she . 
And that will tempt YOU , Miss Marianne . 
A dance ! cried Marianne . 
Impossible ! Who is to dance ? Who ! why yourselves , and the Careys , and Whitakers to be sure . 
This , and Marianne's blushing , gave new suspicions to Edward . 
And who is Willoughby ? said he , in a low voice , to Miss Dashwood , by whom he was sitting . 
She gave him a brief reply . 
Marianne's countenance was more communicative . 
Shall I tell you my guess ? What do you mean ? Shall I tell you . 
Well then I guess that Mr. Willoughby hunts . 
I am sure you will like him . 
Never had any week passed so quickly he could hardly believe it to be gone . 
He said so repeatedly other things he said too , which marked the turn of his feelings and gave the lie to his actions . 
He had no pleasure at Norland he detested being in town but either to Norland or London , he must go . 
He valued their kindness beyond any thing , and his greatest happiness was in being with them . 
Yet , he must leave them at the end of a week , in spite of their wishes and his own , and without any restraint on his time . 
His want of spirits , of openness , and of consistency , were most usually attributed to his want of independence , and his better knowledge of Mrs. Ferrars's disposition and designs . 
The shortness of his visit , the steadiness of his purpose in leaving them , originated in the same fettered inclination , the same inevitable necessity of temporizing with his mother . 
The old well established grievance of duty against will , parent against child , was the cause of all . 
Some inconvenience to your friends , indeed , might result from it you would not be able to give them so much of your time . 
you would be materially benefited in one particular at least you would know where to go when you left them . 
I do assure you , he replied , that I have long thought on this point , as you think now . 
But unfortunately my own nicety , and the nicety of my friends , have made me what I am , an idle , helpless being . 
We never could agree in our choice of a profession . 
I always preferred the church , as I still do . 
But that was not smart enough for my family . 
That was a great deal too smart for me . 
But I had no inclination for the law , even in this less abstruse study of it , which my family approved . 
I was therefore entered at Oxford and have been properly idle ever since . 
They will be brought up , said he , in a serious accent , to be as unlike myself as is possible . 
In feeling , in action , in condition , in every thing . 
Come , come this is all an effusion of immediate want of spirits , Edward . 
You are in a melancholy humour , and fancy that any one unlike yourself must be happy . 
But remember that the pain of parting from friends will be felt by every body at times , whatever be their education or state . 
You want nothing but patience or give it a more fascinating name , call it hope . 
How much may not a few months do ? I think , replied Edward , that I may defy many months to produce any good to me . 
Their means were as different as their objects , and equally suited to the advancement of each . 
Such behaviour as this , so exactly the reverse of her own , appeared no more meritorious to Marianne , than her own had seemed faulty to her . 
The business of self command she settled very easily with strong affections it was impossible , with calm ones it could have no merit . 
From a reverie of this kind , as she sat at her drawing table , she was roused one morning , soon after Edward's leaving them , by the arrival of company . 
She happened to be quite alone . 
Amongst them were Sir John and Lady Middleton and Mrs. Jennings , but there were two others , a gentleman and lady , who were quite unknown to her . 
Well , said he , we have brought you some strangers . 
How do you like them ? Hush ! they will hear you . 
Never mind if they do . 
It is only the Palmers . 
Charlotte is very pretty , I can tell you . 
You may see her if you look this way . 
As Elinor was certain of seeing her in a couple of minutes , without taking that liberty , she begged to be excused . 
Where is Marianne ? Has she run away because we are come ? I see her instrument is open . 
She is walking , I believe . 
They were now joined by Mrs. Jennings , who had not patience enough to wait till the door was opened before she told HER story . 
I have brought my other son and daughter to see you . 
Mrs. Palmer was several years younger than Lady Middleton , and totally unlike her in every respect . 
She was short and plump , had a very pretty face , and the finest expression of good humour in it that could possibly be . 
Her manners were by no means so elegant as her sister's , but they were much more prepossessing . 
She came in with a smile , smiled all the time of her visit , except when she laughed , and smiled when she went away . 
Mr. Palmer does not hear me , said she , laughing he never does sometimes . 
Mrs. Palmer laughed heartily at the recollection of their astonishment , and every body agreed , two or three times over , that it had been quite an agreeable surprise . 
it was wrong in her situation . 
She expects to be confined in February , continued Mrs. Jennings . 
Lady Middleton could no longer endure such a conversation , and therefore exerted herself to ask Mr. Palmer if there was any news in the paper . 
No , none at all , he replied , and read on . 
Here comes Marianne , cried Sir John . 
Now , Palmer , you shall see a monstrous pretty girl . 
He immediately went into the passage , opened the front door , and ushered her in himself . 
Mr. Palmer looked up on her entering the room , stared at her some minutes , and then returned to his newspaper . 
Mrs. Palmer's eye was now caught by the drawings which hung round the room . 
She got up to examine them . 
And then sitting down again , she very soon forgot that there were any such things in the room . 
When Lady Middleton rose to go away , Mr. Palmer rose also , laid down the newspaper , stretched himself and looked at them all around . 
My love , have you been asleep ? said his wife , laughing . 
He made her no answer and only observed , after again examining the room , that it was very low pitched , and that the ceiling was crooked . 
He then made his bow , and departed with the rest . 
Sir John had been very urgent with them all to spend the next day at the park . 
Mrs. Dashwood , who did not chuse to dine with them oftener than they dined at the cottage , absolutely refused on her own account her daughters might do as they pleased . 
But they had no curiosity to see how Mr. and Mrs. Palmer ate their dinner , and no expectation of pleasure from them in any other way . 
They attempted , therefore , likewise , to excuse themselves the weather was uncertain , and not likely to be good . 
But Sir John would not be satisfied the carriage should be sent for them and they must come . 
Lady Middleton too , though she did not press their mother , pressed them . 
Mrs. Jennings and Mrs. Palmer joined their entreaties , all seemed equally anxious to avoid a family party and the young ladies were obliged to yield . 
Why should they ask us ? said Marianne , as soon as they were gone . 
They mean no less to be civil and kind to us now , said Elinor , by these frequent invitations , than by those which we received from them a few weeks ago . 
The alteration is not in them , if their parties are grown tedious and dull . 
We must look for the change elsewhere . 
She took them all most affectionately by the hand , and expressed great delight in seeing them again . 
We must go , for the Westons come to us next week you know . 
He is so droll ! He never tells me any thing ! I am so sorry we cannot stay longer however we shall meet again in town very soon , I hope . 
They were obliged to put an end to such an expectation . 
Not go to town ! cried Mrs. Palmer , with a laugh , I shall be quite disappointed if you do not . 
I could get the nicest house in world for you , next door to ours , in Hanover square . 
You must come , indeed . 
I am sure I shall be very happy to chaperon you at any time till I am confined , if Mrs. Dashwood should not like to go into public . 
They thanked her but were obliged to resist all her entreaties . 
Oh , my love , cried Mrs. Palmer to her husband , who just then entered the room you must help me to persuade the Miss Dashwoods to go to town this winter . 
Her love made no answer and after slightly bowing to the ladies , began complaining of the weather . 
How horrid all this is ! said he . 
Such weather makes every thing and every body disgusting . 
Dullness is as much produced within doors as without , by rain . 
It makes one detest all one's acquaintance . 
What the devil does Sir John mean by not having a billiard room in his house ? How few people know what comfort is ! Sir John is as stupid as the weather . 
The rest of the company soon dropt in . 
I am afraid , Miss Marianne , said Sir John , you have not been able to take your usual walk to Allenham today . 
Marianne looked very grave and said nothing . 
We do not live a great way from him in the country , you know . 
Not above ten miles , I dare say . 
Much nearer thirty , said her husband . 
Ah , well ! there is not much difference . 
I never was at his house but they say it is a sweet pretty place . 
As vile a spot as I ever saw in my life , said Mr. Palmer . 
Marianne remained perfectly silent , though her countenance betrayed her interest in what was said . 
Is it very ugly ? continued Mrs. Palmer then it must be some other place that is so pretty I suppose . 
When they were seated in the dining room , Sir John observed with regret that they were only eight all together . 
My dear , said he to his lady , it is very provoking that we should be so few . 
You and I , Sir John , said Mrs. Jennings , should not stand upon such ceremony . 
Then you would be very ill bred , cried Mr. Palmer . 
My love you contradict every body , said his wife with her usual laugh . 
Do you know that you are quite rude ? I did not know I contradicted any body in calling your mother ill bred . 
Ay , you may abuse me as you please , said the good natured old lady , you have taken Charlotte off my hands , and cannot give her back again . 
So there I have the whip hand of you . 
It was impossible for any one to be more thoroughly good natured , or more determined to be happy than Mrs. Palmer . 
The studied indifference , insolence , and discontent of her husband gave her no pain and when he scolded or abused her , she was highly diverted . 
Mr. Palmer is so droll ! said she , in a whisper , to Elinor . 
He is always out of humour . 
Elinor was not inclined , after a little observation , to give him credit for being so genuinely and unaffectedly ill natured or ill bred as he wished to appear . 
It was rather a wish of distinction , she believed , which produced his contemptuous treatment of every body , and his general abuse of every thing before him . 
It was the desire of appearing superior to other people . 
Oh , my dear Miss Dashwood , said Mrs. Palmer soon afterwards , I have got such a favour to ask of you and your sister . 
Will you come and spend some time at Cleveland this Christmas ? Now , pray do , and come while the Westons are with us . 
There now , said his lady , you see Mr. Palmer expects you so you cannot refuse to come . 
They both eagerly and resolutely declined her invitation . 
But indeed you must and shall come . 
I am sure you will like it of all things . 
The Westons will be with us , and it will be quite delightful . 
Elinor could hardly keep her countenance as she assented to the hardship of such an obligation . 
Don't you , Mr. Palmer ? Mr. Palmer took no notice of her . 
He cannot bear writing , you know , she continued he says it is quite shocking . 
No , said he , I never said any thing so irrational . 
Don't palm all your abuses of languages upon me . 
There now you see how droll he is . 
She surprised Elinor very much as they returned into the drawing room , by asking her whether she did not like Mr. Palmer excessively . 
Certainly , said Elinor he seems very agreeable . 
Well I am so glad you do . 
I can't imagine why you should object to it . 
Elinor was again obliged to decline her invitation and by changing the subject , put a stop to her entreaties . 
She began by inquiring if they saw much of Mr. Willoughby at Cleveland , and whether they were intimately acquainted with him . 
Oh dear , yes I know him extremely well , replied Mrs. Palmer Not that I ever spoke to him , indeed but I have seen him for ever in town . 
Somehow or other I never happened to be staying at Barton while he was at Allenham . 
Mama saw him here once before but I was with my uncle at Weymouth . 
I know why you inquire about him , very well your sister is to marry him . 
I am monstrous glad of it , for then I shall have her for a neighbour you know . 
Upon my word , replied Elinor , you know much more of the matter than I do , if you have any reason to expect such a match . 
Don't pretend to deny it , because you know it is what every body talks of . 
I assure you I heard of it in my way through town . 
My dear Mrs. Palmer ! Upon my honour I did . 
I met Colonel Brandon Monday morning in Bond street , just before we left town , and he told me of it directly . 
You surprise me very much . 
Colonel Brandon tell you of it ! Surely you must be mistaken . 
To give such intelligence to a person who could not be interested in it , even if it were true , is not what I should expect Colonel Brandon to do . 
But I do assure you it was so , for all that , and I will tell you how it happened . 
Is it true , pray ? for of course you must know , as you have been in Devonshire so lately . 
I am flattered by his commendation . 
He seems an excellent man and I think him uncommonly pleasing . 
So do I. He is such a charming man , that it is quite a pity he should be so grave and so dull . 
Mamma says HE was in love with your sister too . 
I assure you it was a great compliment if he was , for he hardly ever falls in love with any body . 
Is Mr. Willoughby much known in your part of Somersetshire ? said Elinor . 
Nobody is more liked than Mr. Willoughby wherever he goes , and so you may tell your sister . 
Mrs. Palmer's information respecting Willoughby was not very material but any testimony in his favour , however small , was pleasing to her . 
I am so glad we are got acquainted at last , continued Charlotte . 
And now I hope we shall always be great friends . 
It is a sweet place , by all accounts . 
You have been long acquainted with Colonel Brandon , have not you ? Yes , a great while ever since my sister married . 
He was a particular friend of Sir John's . 
I believe , she added in a low voice , he would have been very glad to have had me , if he could . 
Sir John and Lady Middleton wished it very much . 
But mama did not think the match good enough for me , otherwise Sir John would have mentioned it to the Colonel , and we should have been married immediately . 
He had not seen me then above twice , for it was before I left school . 
However , I am much happier as I am . 
Mr. Palmer is the kind of man I like . 
CHAPTER The Palmers returned to Cleveland the next day , and the two families at Barton were again left to entertain each other . 
The young ladies arrived their appearance was by no means ungenteel or unfashionable . 
She declared them to be very agreeable girls indeed , which for her ladyship was enthusiastic admiration . 
Sir John wanted the whole family to walk to the Park directly and look at his guests . 
Benevolent , philanthropic man ! It was painful to him even to keep a third cousin to himself . 
Do come now , said he pray come you must come I declare you shall come You can't think how you will like them . 
Lucy is monstrous pretty , and so good humoured and agreeable ! The children are all hanging about her already , as if she was an old acquaintance . 
You will be delighted with them I am sure . 
They have brought the whole coach full of playthings for the children . 
How can you be so cross as not to come ? Why they are your cousins , you know , after a fashion . 
YOU are my cousins , and they are my wife's , so you must be related . 
But Sir John could not prevail . 
She saw with maternal complacency all the impertinent encroachments and mischievous tricks to which her cousins submitted . 
It suggested no other surprise than that Elinor and Marianne should sit so composedly by , without claiming a share in what was passing . 
John is in such spirits today ! said she , on his taking Miss Steeles's pocket handkerchief , and throwing it out of window He is full of monkey tricks . 
With such a reward for her tears , the child was too wise to cease crying . 
Poor little creatures ! said Miss Steele , as soon as they were gone . 
It might have been a very sad accident . 
Yet I hardly know how , cried Marianne , unless it had been under totally different circumstances . 
But this is the usual way of heightening alarm , where there is nothing to be alarmed at in reality . 
What a sweet woman Lady Middleton is ! said Lucy Steele . 
She did her best when thus called on , by speaking of Lady Middleton with more warmth than she felt , though with far less than Miss Lucy . 
She merely observed that he was perfectly good humoured and friendly . 
And what a charming little family they have ! I never saw such fine children in my life . 
I declare I quite doat upon them already , and indeed I am always distractedly fond of children . 
I should guess so , said Elinor , with a smile , from what I have witnessed this morning . 
I confess , replied Elinor , that while I am at Barton Park , I never think of tame and quiet children with any abhorrence . 
In some surprise at the familiarity of this question , or at least of the manner in which it was spoken , Elinor replied that she was . 
Norland is a prodigious beautiful place , is not it ? added Miss Steele . 
We have heard Sir John admire it excessively , said Lucy , who seemed to think some apology necessary for the freedom of her sister . 
I think every one MUST admire it , replied Elinor , who ever saw the place though it is not to be supposed that any one can estimate its beauties as we do . 
But perhaps you young ladies may not care about the beaux , and had as lief be without them as with them . 
For my part , I think they are vastly agreeable , provided they dress smart and behave civil . 
But I can't bear to see them dirty and nasty . 
But this I can say , that if he ever was a beau before he married , he is one still for there is not the smallest alteration in him . 
Oh ! dear ! one never thinks of married men's being beaux they have something else to do . 
Lord ! Anne , cried her sister , you can talk of nothing but beaux you will make Miss Dashwood believe you think of nothing else . 
And then to turn the discourse , she began admiring the house and the furniture . 
This specimen of the Miss Steeles was enough . 
Not so the Miss Steeles . 
'Twill be a fine thing to have her married so young to be sure , said she , and I hear he is quite a beau , and prodigious handsome . 
And I hope you may have as good luck yourself soon , but perhaps you may have a friend in the corner already . 
His name is Ferrars , said he , in a very audible whisper but pray do not tell it , for it's a great secret . 
How can you say so , Anne ? cried Lucy , who generally made an amendment to all her sister's assertions . 
Though we have seen him once or twice at my uncle's , it is rather too much to pretend to know him very well . 
Elinor heard all this with attention and surprise . 
But her curiosity was unavailing , for no farther notice was taken of Mr. Ferrars's name by Miss Steele when alluded to , or even openly mentioned by Sir John . 
Indeed ! replied Lucy I wonder at that , for I thought you must have seen her at Norland sometimes . 
Elinor made her a civil reply , and they walked on for a few minutes in silence . 
It was broken by Lucy , who renewed the subject again by saying , with some hesitation , I cannot bear to have you think me impertinently curious . 
I am sure I would rather do any thing in the world than be thought so by a person whose good opinion is so well worth having as yours . 
I am sorry you do not happen to know Mrs. Ferrars . 
I am sorry I do NOT , said Elinor , in great astonishment , if it could be of any use to YOU to know my opinion of her . 
I dare say you are , and I am sure I do not at all wonder at it . 
But if I dared tell you all , you would not be so much surprised . 
Mrs. Ferrars is certainly nothing to me at present but the time MAY come how soon it will come must depend upon herself when we may be very intimately connected . 
She looked down as she said this , amiably bashful , with only one side glance at her companion to observe its effect on her . 
No , replied Lucy , not to Mr. ROBERT Ferrars I never saw him in my life but , fixing her eyes upon Elinor , to his eldest brother . 
What felt Elinor at that moment ? Astonishment , that would have been as painful as it was strong , had not an immediate disbelief of the assertion attended it . 
Elinor for a few moments remained silent . 
Elinor , though greatly shocked , still felt unable to believe it . 
I did not know , said she , that you were even acquainted till the other day . 
Our acquaintance , however , is of many years date . 
He was under my uncle's care , you know , a considerable while . 
Your uncle ! Yes Mr. Pratt . 
Did you never hear him talk of Mr. Pratt ? I think I have , replied Elinor , with an exertion of spirits , which increased with her increase of emotion . 
He was four years with my uncle , who lives at Longstaple , near Plymouth . 
We cannot mean the same Mr. Ferrars . 
We can mean no other , cried Lucy , smiling . 
It is strange , replied Elinor , in a most painful perplexity , that I should never have heard him even mention your name . 
No considering our situation , it was not strange . 
Our first care has been to keep the matter secret . 
Elinor's security sunk but her self command did not sink with it . 
Four years you have been engaged , said she with a firm voice . 
Yes and heaven knows how much longer we may have to wait . 
Poor Edward ! It puts him quite out of heart . 
Then taking a small miniature from her pocket , she added , To prevent the possibility of mistake , be so good as to look at this face . 
It does not do him justice , to be sure , but yet I think you cannot be deceived as to the person it was drew for . 
I have had it above these three years . 
She returned it almost instantly , acknowledging the likeness . 
You are quite in the right , replied Elinor calmly . 
They then proceeded a few paces in silence . 
I shall have no fortune , and I fancy she is an exceeding proud woman . 
I certainly did not seek your confidence , said Elinor but you do me no more than justice in imagining that I may be depended on . 
Your secret is safe with me but pardon me if I express some surprise at so unnecessary a communication . 
You must at least have felt that my being acquainted with it could not add to its safety . 
I was afraid you would think I was taking a great liberty with you , said she , in telling you all this . 
You can't think how much I go through in my mind from it altogether . 
I only wonder that I am alive after what I have suffered for Edward's sake these last four years . 
Every thing in such suspense and uncertainty and seeing him so seldom we can hardly meet above twice a year . 
I am sure I wonder my heart is not quite broke . 
Here she took out her handkerchief but Elinor did not feel very compassionate . 
continued Lucy , after wiping her eyes , I think whether it would not be better for us both to break off the matter entirely . 
As she said this , she looked directly at her companion . 
But then at other times I have not resolution enough for it . 
I cannot bear the thoughts of making him so miserable , as I know the very mention of such a thing would do . 
And on my own account too so dear as he is to me I don't think I could be equal to it . 
Your own judgment must direct you . 
Did he come from your uncle's , then , when he visited us ? Oh , yes he had been staying a fortnight with us . 
She remembered too , her own surprise at the time , at his mentioning nothing farther of those friends , at his total silence with respect even to their names . 
Did not you think him sadly out of spirits ? repeated Lucy . 
We did , indeed , particularly so when he first arrived . 
Poor fellow ! I am afraid it is just the same with him now for he writes in wretched spirits . 
I heard from him just before I left Exeter taking a letter from her pocket and carelessly showing the direction to Elinor . 
You know his hand , I dare say , a charming one it is but that is not written so well as usual . 
He was tired , I dare say , for he had just filled the sheet to me as full as possible . 
Elinor saw that it WAS his hand , and she could doubt no longer . 
Writing to each other , said Lucy , returning the letter into her pocket , is the only comfort we have in such long separations . 
Yes , I have one other comfort in his picture , but poor Edward has not even THAT . 
If he had but my picture , he says he should be easy . 
She was mortified , shocked , confounded . 
Fortunately for her , they had now reached the cottage , and the conversation could be continued no farther . 
After sitting with them a few minutes , the Miss Steeles returned to the Park , and Elinor was then at liberty to think and be wretched . 
At this point in the first and second editions , Volume ends . 
Her resentment of such behaviour , her indignation at having been its dupe , for a short time made her feel only for herself but other ideas , other considerations , soon arose . 
His affection was all her own . 
She could not be deceived in that . 
Her mother , sisters , Fanny , all had been conscious of his regard for her at Norland it was not an illusion of her own vanity . 
In that , he could not be defended but if he had injured her , how much more had he injured himself if her case were pitiable , his was hopeless . 
His imprudence had made her miserable for a while but it seemed to have deprived himself of all chance of ever being otherwise . 
The necessity of concealing from her mother and Marianne , what had been entrusted in confidence to herself , though it obliged her to unceasing exertion , was no aggravation of Elinor's distress . 
Much as she had suffered from her first conversation with Lucy on the subject , she soon felt an earnest wish of renewing it and this for more reasons than one . 
And even Sir John's joking intelligence must have had some weight . 
Such a thought would never enter either Sir John or Lady Middleton's head and therefore very little leisure was ever given for a general chat , and none at all for particular discourse . 
They met for the sake of eating , drinking , and laughing together , playing at cards , or consequences , or any other game that was sufficiently noisy . 
The young ladies went , and Lady Middleton was happily preserved from the frightful solitude which had threatened her . 
They quitted it only with the removal of the tea things . 
The card table was then placed , and Elinor began to wonder at herself for having ever entertained a hope of finding time for conversation at the park . 
They all rose up in preparation for a round game . 
And we will make the dear little love some amends for her disappointment to morrow , and then I hope she will not much mind it . 
I would not disappoint the little angel for all the world and if you want me at the card table now , I am resolved to finish the basket after supper . 
Lady Middleton proposed a rubber of Casino to the others . 
I shall go to the piano forte I have not touched it since it was tuned . 
And without farther ceremony , she turned away and walked to the instrument . 
Lady Middleton looked as if she thanked heaven that SHE had never made so rude a speech . 
The remaining five were now to draw their cards . 
I should like the work exceedingly , if she would allow me a share in it . 
CHAPTER In a firm , though cautious tone , Elinor thus began . 
I should be undeserving of the confidence you have honoured me with , if I felt no desire for its continuance , or no farther curiosity on its subject . 
I will not apologize therefore for bringing it forward again . 
I felt sure that you was angry with me and have been quarrelling with myself ever since , for having took such a liberty as to trouble you with my affairs . 
But I am very glad to find it was only my own fancy , and that you really do not blame me . 
Your case is a very unfortunate one you seem to me to be surrounded with difficulties , and you will have need of all your mutual affection to support you under them . 
Mr. Ferrars , I believe , is entirely dependent on his mother . 
We must wait , it may be for many years . 
With almost every other man in the world , it would be an alarming prospect but Edward's affection and constancy nothing can deprive me of I know . 
That conviction must be every thing to you and he is undoubtedly supported by the same trust in your's . 
Lucy here looked up but Elinor was careful in guarding her countenance from every expression that could give her words a suspicious tendency . 
I can safely say that he has never gave me one moment's alarm on that account from the first . 
Elinor hardly knew whether to smile or sigh at this assertion . 
I do not mean to say that I am particularly observant or quick sighted in general , but in such a case I am sure I could not be deceived . 
All this , thought Elinor , is very pretty but it can impose upon neither of us . 
And for your own sake too , or you are carrying your disinterestedness beyond reason . 
Lucy looked at Elinor again , and was silent . 
Do you know Mr. Robert Ferrars ? asked Elinor . 
Not at all I never saw him but I fancy he is very unlike his brother silly and a great coxcomb . 
A great coxcomb ! repeated Miss Steele , whose ear had caught those words by a sudden pause in Marianne's music . 
Oh , they are talking of their favourite beaux , I dare say . 
No sister , cried Lucy , you are mistaken there , our favourite beaux are NOT great coxcombs . 
Oh , cried Miss Steele , looking significantly round at them , I dare say Lucy's beau is quite as modest and pretty behaved as Miss Dashwood's . 
Elinor blushed in spite of herself . 
Lucy bit her lip , and looked angrily at her sister . 
A mutual silence took place for some time . 
That would be enough for us to marry upon , and we might trust to time and chance for the rest . 
But Mrs. John Dashwood would not much approve of Edward's going into orders . 
Then I rather suspect that my interest would do very little . 
They were again silent for many minutes . 
At length Lucy exclaimed with a deep sigh , I believe it would be the wisest way to put an end to the business at once by dissolving the engagement . 
We seem so beset with difficulties on every side , that though it would make us miserable for a time , we should be happier perhaps in the end . 
You know very well that my opinion would have no weight with you , unless it were on the side of your wishes . 
Elinor blushed for the insincerity of Edward's future wife , and replied , This compliment would effectually frighten me from giving any opinion on the subject had I formed one . 
It raises my influence much too high the power of dividing two people so tenderly attached is too much for an indifferent person . 
If you could be supposed to be biased in any respect by your own feelings , your opinion would not be worth having . 
Another pause therefore of many minutes' duration , succeeded this speech , and Lucy was still the first to end it . 
Shall you be in town this winter , Miss Dashwood ? said she with all her accustomary complacency . 
To be sure , your brother and sister will ask you to come to them . 
It will not be in my power to accept their invitation if they do . 
How unlucky that is ! I had quite depended upon meeting you there . 
He will be there in February , otherwise London would have no charms for me I have not spirits for it . 
The visit of the Miss Steeles at Barton Park was lengthened far beyond what the first invitation implied . 
The reason alleged was their determined resolution of not leaving their mother at that time of the year . 
Mrs. Jennings received the refusal with some surprise , and repeated her invitation immediately . 
Don't fancy that you will be any inconvenience to me , for I shan't put myself at all out of my way for you . 
It will only be sending Betty by the coach , and I hope I can afford THAT . 
I shall speak a good word for you to all the young men , you may depend upon it . 
I have a notion , said Sir John , that Miss Marianne would not object to such a scheme , if her elder sister would come into it . 
It is very hard indeed that she should not have a little pleasure , because Miss Dashwood does not wish it . 
So I would advise you two , to set off for town , when you are tired of Barton , without saying a word to Miss Dashwood about it . 
But one or the other , if not both of them , I must have . 
Lord bless me ! how do you think I can live poking by myself , I who have been always used till this winter to have Charlotte with me . 
Come , Miss Marianne , let us strike hands upon the bargain , and if Miss Dashwood will change her mind by and bye , why so much the better . 
It should not , must not be a struggle . 
I am delighted with the plan , she cried , it is exactly what I could wish . 
Margaret and I shall be as much benefited by it as yourselves . 
It is very right that you SHOULD go to town I would have every young woman of your condition in life acquainted with the manners and amusements of London . 
You will be under the care of a motherly good sort of woman , of whose kindness to you I can have no doubt . 
My objection is this though I think very well of Mrs. Jennings's heart , she is not a woman whose society can afford us pleasure , or whose protection will give us consequence . 
If Elinor is frightened away by her dislike of Mrs. Jennings , said Marianne , at least it need not prevent MY accepting her invitation . 
I have no such scruples , and I am sure I could put up with every unpleasantness of that kind with very little effort . 
I will have you BOTH go , said Mrs. Dashwood these objections are nonsensical . 
Mrs. Dashwood smiled , and said nothing . 
Marianne lifted up her eyes in astonishment , and Elinor conjectured that she might as well have held her tongue . 
After very little farther discourse , it was finally settled that the invitation should be fully accepted . 
Mrs. Jennings received the information with a great deal of joy , and many assurances of kindness and care nor was it a matter of pleasure merely to her . 
Elinor submitted to the arrangement which counteracted her wishes with less reluctance than she had expected to feel . 
Marianne's joy was almost a degree beyond happiness , so great was the perturbation of her spirits and her impatience to be gone . 
Her unwillingness to quit her mother was her only restorative to calmness and at the moment of parting her grief on that score was excessive . 
Her mother's affliction was hardly less , and Elinor was the only one of the three , who seemed to consider the separation as any thing short of eternal . 
Their departure took place in the first week in January . 
The Middletons were to follow in about a week . 
The Miss Steeles kept their station at the park , and were to quit it only with the rest of the family . 
A short , a very short time however must now decide what Willoughby's intentions were in all probability he was already in town . 
They were three days on their journey , and Marianne's behaviour as they travelled was a happy specimen of what future complaisance and companionableness to Mrs. Jennings might be expected to be . 
The house was handsome , and handsomely fitted up , and the young ladies were immediately put in possession of a very comfortable apartment . 
In a few moments Marianne did the same . 
This conviction , though not entirely satisfactory , gave her pleasure , and she continued her letter with greater alacrity . 
Marianne's was finished in a very few minutes in length it could be no more than a note it was then folded up , sealed , and directed with eager rapidity . 
This decided the matter at once . 
Her spirits still continued very high but there was a flutter in them which prevented their giving much pleasure to her sister , and this agitation increased as the evening drew on . 
She could scarcely eat any dinner , and when they afterwards returned to the drawing room , seemed anxiously listening to the sound of every carriage . 
It was a great satisfaction to Elinor that Mrs. Jennings , by being much engaged in her own room , could see little of what was passing . 
It was too great a shock to be borne with calmness , and she immediately left the room . 
Is your sister ill ? said he . 
Mrs. Jennings soon came in . 
Oh , you did well , and how do they all do at their house ? How does Charlotte do ? I warrant you she is a fine size by this time . 
Mrs. Palmer appeared quite well , and I am commissioned to tell you , that you will certainly see her to morrow . 
Ay , to be sure , I thought as much . 
Well , Colonel , I have brought two young ladies with me , you see that is , you see but one of them now , but there is another somewhere . 
Your friend , Miss Marianne , too which you will not be sorry to hear . 
I do not know what you and Mr. Willoughby will do between you about her . 
Ay , it is a fine thing to be young and handsome . 
Well ! I was young once , but I never was very handsome worse luck for me . 
However , I got a very good husband , and I don't know what the greatest beauty can do more . 
Ah ! poor man ! he has been dead these eight years and better . 
But Colonel , where have you been to since we parted ? And how does your business go on ? Come , come , let's have no secrets among friends . 
He replied with his accustomary mildness to all her inquiries , but without satisfying her in any . 
Elinor now began to make the tea , and Marianne was obliged to appear again . 
After her entrance , Colonel Brandon became more thoughtful and silent than he had been before , and Mrs. Jennings could not prevail on him to stay long . 
No other visitor appeared that evening , and the ladies were unanimous in agreeing to go early to bed . 
Marianne rose the next morning with recovered spirits and happy looks . 
The disappointment of the evening before seemed forgotten in the expectation of what was to happen that day . 
Wherever they went , she was evidently always on the watch . 
Has no letter been left here for me since we went out ? said she to the footman who then entered with the parcels . 
She was answered in the negative . 
Are you quite sure of it ? she replied . 
Are you certain that no servant , no porter has left any letter or note ? The man replied that none had . 
How very odd ! said she , in a low and disappointed voice , as she turned away to the window . 
How odd , indeed ! repeated Elinor within herself , regarding her sister with uneasiness . 
Mrs. Palmer and two elderly ladies of Mrs. Jennings's intimate acquaintance , whom she had met and invited in the morning , dined with them . 
The former left them soon after tea to fulfill her evening engagements and Elinor was obliged to assist in making a whist table for the others . 
Poor souls ! I always pity them when they do they seem to take it so much to heart . 
That is true , cried Marianne , in a cheerful voice , and walking to the window as she spoke , to examine the day . 
I had not thought of that . 
This weather will keep many sportsmen in the country . 
It was a lucky recollection , all her good spirits were restored by it . 
It is charming weather for THEM indeed , she continued , as she sat down to the breakfast table with a happy countenance . 
it cannot be expected to last long . 
At this time of the year , and after such a series of rain , we shall certainly have very little more of it . 
Frosts will soon set in , and in all probability with severity . 
Ay , my dear , I'll warrant you we do . 
Mary always has her own way . 
And now , silently conjectured Elinor , she will write to Combe by this day's post . 
But if she DID , the letter was written and sent away with a privacy which eluded all her watchfulness to ascertain the fact . 
And Marianne was in spirits happy in the mildness of the weather , and still happier in her expectation of a frost . 
Don't you find it colder than it was in the morning , Elinor ? There seems to me a very decided difference . 
I can hardly keep my hands warm even in my muff . 
It was not so yesterday , I think . 
The clouds seem parting too , the sun will be out in a moment , and we shall have a clear afternoon . 
The Miss Dashwoods had no greater reason to be dissatisfied with Mrs. Jennings's style of living , and set of acquaintance , than with her behaviour to themselves , which was invariably kind . 
She feared it was a strengthening regard . 
It grieved her to see the earnestness with which he often watched Marianne , and his spirits were certainly worse than when at Barton . 
About a week after their arrival , it became certain that Willoughby was also arrived . 
His card was on the table when they came in from the morning's drive . 
Good God ! cried Marianne , he has been here while we were out . 
Elinor , rejoiced to be assured of his being in London , now ventured to say , Depend upon it , he will call again tomorrow . 
But Marianne seemed hardly to hear her , and on Mrs. Jenning's entrance , escaped with the precious card . 
This event , while it raised the spirits of Elinor , restored to those of her sister all , and more than all , their former agitation . 
From this moment her mind was never quiet the expectation of seeing him every hour of the day , made her unfit for any thing . 
She insisted on being left behind , the next morning , when the others went out . 
A note was just then brought in , and laid on the table , For me ! cried Marianne , stepping hastily forward . 
No , ma'am , for my mistress . 
But Marianne , not convinced , took it instantly up . 
It is indeed for Mrs. Jennings how provoking ! You are expecting a letter , then ? said Elinor , unable to be longer silent . 
Yes , a little not much . 
You have no confidence in me , Marianne . 
Nay , Elinor , this reproach from YOU you who have confidence in no one ! Me ! returned Elinor in some confusion indeed , Marianne , I have nothing to tell . 
Nor I , answered Marianne with energy , our situations then are alike . 
We have neither of us any thing to tell you , because you do not communicate , and I , because I conceal nothing . 
Mrs. Jennings soon appeared , and the note being given her , she read it aloud . 
It was from Lady Middleton , announcing their arrival in Conduit Street the night before , and requesting the company of her mother and cousins the following evening . 
Business on Sir John's part , and a violent cold on her own , prevented their calling in Berkeley Street . 
This was an affair , however , of which Lady Middleton did not approve . 
He looked at them slightly , without seeming to know who they were , and merely nodded to Mrs. Jennings from the other side of the room . 
Marianne gave one glance round the apartment as she entered it was enough HE was not there and she sat down , equally ill disposed to receive or communicate pleasure . 
I thought you were both in Devonshire , said he . 
Did you ? replied Elinor . 
When do you go back again ? I do not know . 
And thus ended their discourse . 
Never had Marianne been so unwilling to dance in her life , as she was that evening , and never so much fatigued by the exercise . 
She complained of it as they returned to Berkeley Street . 
So my daughter Middleton told me , for it seems Sir John met him somewhere in the street this morning . 
Marianne said no more , but looked exceedingly hurt . 
Her letter was scarcely finished , when a rap foretold a visitor , and Colonel Brandon was announced . 
Marianne , who had seen him from the window , and who hated company of any kind , left the room before he entered it . 
Elinor , persuaded that he had some communication to make in which her sister was concerned , impatiently expected its opening . 
It cannot be generally known , returned Elinor , for her own family do not know it . 
I came to inquire , but I was convinced before I could ask the question . 
Is every thing finally settled ? Is it impossible to ? But I have no right , and I could have no chance of succeeding . 
Excuse me , Miss Dashwood . 
I believe I have been wrong in saying so much , but I hardly know what to do , and on your prudence I have the strongest dependence . 
Tell me that it is all absolutely resolved on , that any attempt , that in short concealment , if concealment be possible , is all that remains . 
These words , which conveyed to Elinor a direct avowal of his love for her sister , affected her very much . 
CHAPTER Nothing occurred during the next three or four days , to make Elinor regret what she had done , in applying to her mother for Willoughby neither came nor wrote . 
They had not remained in this manner long , before Elinor perceived Willoughby , standing within a few yards of them , in earnest conversation with a very fashionable looking young woman . 
Elinor turned involuntarily to Marianne , to see whether it could be unobserved by her . 
At that moment she first perceived him , and her whole countenance glowing with sudden delight , she would have moved towards him instantly , had not her sister caught hold of her . 
Perhaps he has not observed you yet . 
This however was more than she could believe herself and to be composed at such a moment was not only beyond the reach of Marianne , it was beyond her wish . 
She sat in an agony of impatience which affected every feature . 
At last he turned round again , and regarded them both she started up , and pronouncing his name in a tone of affection , held out her hand to him . 
Elinor was robbed of all presence of mind by such an address , and was unable to say a word . 
But the feelings of her sister were instantly expressed . 
During all this time he was evidently struggling for composure . 
Elinor watched his countenance and saw its expression becoming more tranquil . 
After a moment's pause , he spoke with calmness . 
I did myself the honour of calling in Berkeley Street last Tuesday , and very much regretted that I was not fortunate enough to find yourselves and Mrs. Jennings at home . 
My card was not lost , I hope . 
But have you not received my notes ? cried Marianne in the wildest anxiety . 
Here is some mistake I am sure some dreadful mistake . 
Go to him , Elinor , she cried , as soon as she could speak , and force him to come to me . 
Tell him I must see him again must speak to him instantly . 
I cannot rest I shall not have a moment's peace till this is explained some dreadful misapprehension or other . 
Oh go to him this moment . 
How can that be done ? No , my dearest Marianne , you must wait . 
This is not the place for explanations . 
She instantly begged her sister would entreat Lady Middleton to take them home , as she was too miserable to stay a minute longer . 
Scarcely a word was spoken during their return to Berkeley Street . 
Nothing but a thorough change of sentiment could account for it . 
Absence might have weakened his regard , and convenience might have determined him to overcome it , but that such a regard had formerly existed she could not bring herself to doubt . 
Her own situation gained in the comparison for while she could ESTEEM Edward as much as ever , however they might be divided in future , her mind might be always supported . 
But every circumstance that could embitter such an evil seemed uniting to heighten the misery of Marianne in a final separation from Willoughby in an immediate and irreconcilable rupture with him . 
The sort of desperate calmness with which this was said , lasted no longer than while she spoke , and was immediately followed by a return of the same excessive affliction . 
I hope , from the bottom of my heart , he won't keep her waiting much longer , for it is quite grievous to see her look so ill and forlorn . 
I do assure you that nothing would surprise me more than to hear of their being going to be married . 
I tell every body of it and so does Charlotte . 
Indeed , Ma'am , said Elinor , very seriously , you are mistaken . 
Indeed , you are doing a very unkind thing in spreading the report , and you will find that you have though you will not believe me now . 
MY DEAR MADAM , I have just had the honour of receiving your letter , for which I beg to return my sincere acknowledgments . 
I am , dear Madam , Your most obedient humble servant , JOHN WILLOUGHBY . 
With what indignation such a letter as this must be read by Miss Dashwood , may be imagined . 
Elinor could no longer witness this torrent of unresisted grief in silence . 
Exert yourself , dear Marianne , she cried , if you would not kill yourself and all who love you . 
Think of your mother think of her misery while YOU suffer for her sake you must exert yourself . 
I cannot , I cannot , cried Marianne leave me , leave me , if I distress you leave me , hate me , forget me ! but do not torture me so . 
Oh ! how easy for those , who have no sorrow of their own to talk of exertion ! Happy , happy Elinor , YOU cannot have an idea of what I suffer . 
No , no , no , cried Marianne wildly , he loves you , and only you . 
You CAN have no grief . 
I can have no pleasure while I see you in this state . 
And you will never see me otherwise . 
Mine is a misery which nothing can do away . 
You must not talk so , Marianne . 
Every additional day of unhappy confidence , on your side , would have made the blow more dreadful . 
Engagement ! cried Marianne , there has been no engagement . 
No engagement ! No , he is not so unworthy as you believe him . 
He has broken no faith with me . 
But he told you that he loved you . 
It was every day implied , but never professedly declared . 
Sometimes I thought it had been but it never was . 
Yet you wrote to him ? Yes could that be wrong after all that had passed ? But I cannot talk . 
Elinor said no more , and turning again to the three letters which now raised a much stronger curiosity than before , directly ran over the contents of all . 
The first , which was what her sister had sent him on their arrival in town , was to this effect . 
How surprised you will be , Willoughby , on receiving this and I think you will feel something more than surprise , when you know that I am in town . 
An opportunity of coming hither , though with Mrs. Jennings , was a temptation we could not resist . 
I wish you may receive this in time to come here to night , but I will not depend on it . 
At any rate I shall expect you to morrow . 
For the present , adieu . 
I have been expecting to hear from you , and still more to see you , every hour of the day . 
Pray call again as soon as possible , and explain the reason of my having expected this in vain . 
You had better come earlier another time , because we are generally out by one . 
We were last night at Lady Middleton's , where there was a dance . 
I have been told that you were asked to be of the party . 
But could it be so ? You must be very much altered indeed since we parted , if that could be the case , and you not there . 
But I will not suppose this possible , and I hope very soon to receive your personal assurance of its being otherwise . 
M. D. The contents of her last note to him were these What am I to imagine , Willoughby , by your behaviour last night ? Again I demand an explanation of it . 
I was prepared to meet you with the pleasure which our separation naturally produced , with the familiarity which our intimacy at Barton appeared to me to justify . 
You have perhaps been misinformed , or purposely deceived , in something concerning me , which may have lowered me in your opinion . 
Tell me what it is , explain the grounds on which you acted , and I shall be satisfied , in being able to satisfy you . 
My feelings are at present in a state of dreadful indecision I wish to acquit you , but certainty on either side will be ease to what I now suffer . 
If your sentiments are no longer what they were , you will return my notes , and the lock of my hair which is in your possession . 
M. D. That such letters , so full of affection and confidence , could have been so answered , Elinor , for Willoughby's sake , would have been unwilling to believe . 
I felt myself , she added , to be as solemnly engaged to him , as if the strictest legal covenant had bound us to each other . 
I can believe it , said Elinor but unfortunately he did not feel the same . 
He DID feel the same , Elinor for weeks and weeks he felt it . 
, I was once as dear to him as my own soul could wish . 
This lock of hair , which now he can so readily give up , was begged of me with the most earnest supplication . 
Dearest Marianne , who but himself ? By whom can he have been instigated ? By all the world , rather than by his own heart . 
I could rather believe every creature of my acquaintance leagued together to ruin me in his opinion , than believe his nature capable of such cruelty . 
It is a reasonable and laudable pride which resists such malevolence . 
No , no , cried Marianne , misery such as mine has no pride . 
I care not who knows that I am wretched . 
The triumph of seeing me so may be open to all the world . 
Elinor , Elinor , they who suffer little may be proud and independent as they like may resist insult , or return mortification but I cannot . 
I must feel I must be wretched and they are welcome to enjoy the consciousness of it that can . 
But for my mother's sake and mine I would do more than for my own . 
But to appear happy when I am so miserable Oh ! who can require it ? Again they were both silent . 
which you so obligingly bestowed on me' That is unpardonable . 
Willoughby , where was your heart when you wrote those words ? Oh , barbarously insolent ! Elinor , can he be justified ? No , Marianne , in no possible way . 
Another pause ensued Marianne was greatly agitated , and it ended thus . 
Elinor , I must go home . 
I must go and comfort mama . 
We owe Mrs. Jennings much more than civility and civility of the commonest kind must prevent such a hasty removal as that . 
Well then , another day or two , perhaps but I cannot stay here long , I cannot stay to endure the questions and remarks of all these people . 
How do you do my dear ? said she in a voice of great compassion to Marianne , who turned away her face without attempting to answer . 
How is she , Miss Dashwood ? Poor thing ! she looks very bad . 
Ay , it is but too true . 
He is to be married very soon a good for nothing fellow ! I have no patience with him . 
And so I shall always say , my dear , you may depend on it . 
But there is one comfort , my dear Miss Marianne he is not the only young man in the world worth having and with your pretty face you will never want admirers . 
Well , poor thing ! I won't disturb her any longer , for she had better have her cry out at once and have done with . 
The Parrys and Sandersons luckily are coming tonight you know , and that will amuse her . 
She then went away , walking on tiptoe out of the room , as if she supposed her young friend's affliction could be increased by noise . 
Marianne , to the surprise of her sister , determined on dining with them . 
Elinor even advised her against it . 
But no , she would go down she could bear it very well , and the bustle about her would be less . 
When there , though looking most wretchedly , she ate more and was calmer than her sister had expected . 
Their good friend saw that Marianne was unhappy , and felt that every thing was due to her which might make her at all less so . 
She treated her therefore , with all the indulgent fondness of a parent towards a favourite child on the last day of its holidays . 
As soon , however , as the consciousness of all this was forced by continual repetition on Marianne , she could stay no longer . 
With a hasty exclamation of Misery , and a sign to her sister not to follow her , she directly got up and hurried out of the room . 
I am sure if I knew of any thing she would like , I would send all over the town for it . 
Did you ever see her ? a smart , stylish girl they say , but not handsome . 
I remember her aunt very well , Biddy Henshawe she married a very wealthy man . 
But the family are all rich together . 
Fifty thousand pounds ! and by all accounts , it won't come before it's wanted for they say he is all to pieces . 
But that won't do now a days nothing in the way of pleasure can ever be given up by the young men of this age . 
And who are the Ellisons ? Her guardians , my dear . 
Is there nothing one can get to comfort her ? Poor dear , it seems quite cruel to let her be alone . 
Well , by and by we shall have a few friends , and that will amuse her a little . 
What shall we play at ? She hates whist I know but is there no round game she cares for ? Dear ma'am , this kindness is quite unnecessary . 
Marianne , I dare say , will not leave her room again this evening . 
I shall persuade her if I can to go early to bed , for I am sure she wants rest . 
Aye , I believe that will be best for her . 
Let her name her own supper , and go to bed . 
But I shall see them tomorrow . 
Oh ! Lord ! yes , that I do indeed . 
It must be terrible for you to hear it talked of and as for your sister , I am sure I would not mention a word about it to her for the world . 
You saw I did not all dinner time . 
No more would Sir John , nor my daughters , for they are all very thoughtful and considerate especially if I give them a hint , as I certainly will . 
For my part , I think the less that is said about such things , the better , the sooner 'tis blown over and forgot . 
I must do THIS justice to Mr. Willoughby he has broken no positive engagement with my sister . 
Law , my dear ! Don't pretend to defend him . 
After a short silence on both sides , Mrs. Jennings , with all her natural hilarity , burst forth again . 
Well , my dear , 'tis a true saying about an ill wind , for it will be all the better for Colonel Brandon . 
He will have her at last aye , that he will . 
Mind me , now , if they an't married by Mid summer . 
Lord ! how he'll chuckle over this news ! I hope he will come tonight . 
It will be all to one a better match for your sister . 
Oh ! 'tis a nice place ! A butcher hard by in the village , and the parsonage house within a stone's throw . 
To my fancy , a thousand times prettier than Barton Park , where they are forced to send three miles for their meat , and have not a neighbour nearer than your mother . 
Well , I shall spirit up the Colonel as soon as I can . 
One shoulder of mutton , you know , drives another down . 
You had better leave me , was all the notice that her sister received from her . 
I will leave you , said Elinor , if you will go to bed . 
But this , from the momentary perverseness of impatient suffering , she at first refused to do . 
In the drawing room , whither she then repaired , she was soon joined by Mrs. Jennings , with a wine glass , full of something , in her hand . 
Do take it to your sister . 
He knows nothing of it do tell him , my dear . 
He shortly afterwards drew a chair close to her's , and , with a look which perfectly assured her of his good information , inquired after her sister . 
Marianne is not well , said she . 
She has been indisposed all day , and we have persuaded her to go to bed . 
Perhaps , then , he hesitatingly replied , what I heard this morning may be there may be more truth in it than I could believe possible at first . 
You mean , answered Elinor , with forced calmness , Mr. Willoughby's marriage with Miss Grey . 
Yes , we DO know it all . 
This seems to have been a day of general elucidation , for this very morning first unfolded it to us . 
Mr. Willoughby is unfathomable ! Where did you hear it ? In a stationer's shop in Pall Mall , where I had business . 
My astonishment ! but it would be impossible to describe what I felt . 
But have you likewise heard that Miss Grey has fifty thousand pounds ? In that , if in any thing , we may find an explanation . 
I have only to hope that they may be proportionately short . 
It has been , it is a most cruel affliction . 
Till yesterday , I believe , she never doubted his regard and even now , perhaps but I am almost convinced that he never was really attached to her . 
He has been very deceitful ! and , in some points , there seems a hardness of heart about him . 
He made no answer and soon afterwards , by the removal of the tea things , and the arrangement of the card parties , the subject was necessarily dropped . 
CHAPTER XXXI From a night of more sleep than she had expected , Marianne awoke the next morning to the same consciousness of misery in which she had closed her eyes . 
Sometimes she could believe Willoughby to be as unfortunate and as innocent as herself , and at others , lost every consolation in the impossibility of acquitting him . 
Her heart was hardened against the belief of Mrs. Jennings's entering into her sorrows with any compassion . 
No , no , no , it cannot be , she cried she cannot feel . 
Her kindness is not sympathy her good nature is not tenderness . 
All that she wants is gossip , and she only likes me now because I supply it . 
She expected from other people the same opinions and feelings as her own , and she judged of their motives by the immediate effect of their actions on herself . 
The work of one moment was destroyed by the next . 
But the letter , when she was calm enough to read it , brought little comfort . 
Who can this be ? cried Elinor . 
So early too ! I thought we HAD been safe . 
Marianne moved to the window It is Colonel Brandon ! said she , with vexation . 
We are never safe from HIM . 
He will not come in , as Mrs. Jennings is from home . 
I will not trust to THAT , retreating to her own room . 
A man who has nothing to do with his own time has no conscience in his intrusion on that of others . 
I understand you , said Elinor . 
You have something to tell me of Mr. Willoughby , that will open his character farther . 
Your telling it will be the greatest act of friendship that can be shewn Marianne . 
MY gratitude will be insured immediately by any information tending to that end , and HERS must be gained by it in time . 
Pray , pray let me hear it . 
You shall and , to be brief , when I quitted Barton last October , but this will give you no idea I must go farther back . 
You will find me a very awkward narrator , Miss Dashwood I hardly know where to begin . 
A short account of myself , I believe , will be necessary , and it SHALL be a short one . 
On such a subject , sighing heavily , can I have little temptation to be diffuse . 
He stopt a moment for recollection , and then , with another sigh , went on . 
Indeed , answered Elinor , I have NOT forgotten it . 
The same warmth of heart , the same eagerness of fancy and spirits . 
This lady was one of my nearest relations , an orphan from her infancy , and under the guardianship of my father . 
Our ages were nearly the same , and from our earliest years we were playfellows and friends . 
Her's , for me , was , I believe , fervent as the attachment of your sister to Mr. Willoughby and it was , though from a different cause , no less unfortunate . 
At seventeen she was lost to me for ever . 
She was married married against her inclination to my brother . 
Her fortune was large , and our family estate much encumbered . 
And this , I fear , is all that can be said for the conduct of one , who was at once her uncle and guardian . 
My brother did not deserve her he did not even love her . 
We were within a few hours of eloping together for Scotland . 
The treachery , or the folly , of my cousin's maid betrayed us . 
I was banished to the house of a relation far distant , and she was allowed no liberty , no society , no amusement , till my father's point was gained . 
This however was not the case . 
My brother had no regard for her his pleasures were not what they ought to have been , and from the first he treated her unkindly . 
The consequence of this , upon a mind so young , so lively , so inexperienced as Mrs. Brandon's , was but too natural . 
She resigned herself at first to all the misery of her situation and happy had it been if she had not lived to overcome those regrets which the remembrance of me occasioned . 
It was THAT which threw this gloom , even now the recollection of what I suffered He could say no more , and rising hastily walked for a few minutes about the room . 
Elinor , affected by his relation , and still more by his distress , could not speak . 
He saw her concern , and coming to her , took her hand , pressed it , and kissed it with grateful respect . 
A few minutes more of silent exertion enabled him to proceed with composure . 
It was nearly three years after this unhappy period before I returned to England . 
My first care , when I DID arrive , was of course to seek for her but the search was as fruitless as it was melancholy . 
I could not trace her beyond her first seducer , and there was every reason to fear that she had removed from him only to sink deeper in a life of sin . 
He imagined , and calmly could he imagine it , that her extravagance , and consequent distress , had obliged her to dispose of it for some immediate relief . 
At last , however , and after I had been six months in England , I DID find her . 
What I endured in so beholding her but I have no right to wound your feelings by attempting to describe it I have pained you too much already . 
That she was , to all appearance , in the last stage of a consumption , was yes , in such a situation it was my greatest comfort . 
Life could do nothing for her , beyond giving time for a better preparation for death and that was given . 
I saw her placed in comfortable lodgings , and under proper attendants I visited her every day during the rest of her short life I was with her in her last moments . 
Again he stopped to recover himself and Elinor spoke her feelings in an exclamation of tender concern , at the fate of his unfortunate friend . 
Your sister , I hope , cannot be offended , said he , by the resemblance I have fancied between her and my poor disgraced relation . 
But to what does all this lead ? I seem to have been distressing you for nothing . 
Ah ! Miss Dashwood a subject such as this untouched for fourteen years it is dangerous to handle it at all ! I WILL be more collected more concise . 
She left to my care her only child , a little girl , the offspring of her first guilty connection , who was then about three years old . 
She loved the child , and had always kept it with her . 
she visited me at Delaford . 
I called her a distant relation but I am well aware that I have in general been suspected of a much nearer connection with her . 
But last February , almost a twelvemonth back , she suddenly disappeared . 
at her earnest desire , to go to Bath with one of her young friends , who was attending her father there for his health . 
In short , I could learn nothing but that she was gone all the rest , for eight long months , was left to conjecture . 
What I thought , what I feared , may be imagined and what I suffered too . 
Good heavens ! cried Elinor , could it be could Willoughby ! The first news that reached me of her , he continued , came in a letter from herself , last October . 
This is beyond every thing ! exclaimed Elinor . 
His character is now before you expensive , dissipated , and worse than both . 
When I came to you last week and found you alone , I came determined to know the truth though irresolute what to do when it WAS known . 
My behaviour must have seemed strange to you then but now you will comprehend it . 
But now , after such dishonorable usage , who can tell what were his designs on her . 
Surely this comparison must have its use with her . 
She will feel her own sufferings to be nothing . 
They proceed from no misconduct , and can bring no disgrace . 
On the contrary , every friend must be made still more her friend by them . 
Concern for her unhappiness , and respect for her fortitude under it , must strengthen every attachment . 
Use your own discretion , however , in communicating to her what I have told you . 
Elinor's thanks followed this speech with grateful earnestness attended too with the assurance of her expecting material advantage to Marianne , from the communication of what had passed . 
Now , though at first she will suffer much , I am sure she will soon become easier . 
Have you , she continued , after a short silence , ever seen Mr. Willoughby since you left him at Barton ? Yes , he replied gravely , once I have . 
Elinor , startled by his manner , looked at him anxiously , saying , What ? have you met him to I could meet him no other way . 
We returned unwounded , and the meeting , therefore , never got abroad . 
Elinor sighed over the fancied necessity of this but to a man and a soldier she presumed not to censure it . 
Her mind did become settled , but it was settled in a gloomy dejection . 
Her carefulness in guarding her sister from ever hearing Willoughby's name mentioned , was not thrown away . 
Marianne , though without knowing it herself , reaped all its advantage for neither Mrs. Jennings , nor Sir John , nor even Mrs. Palmer herself , ever spoke of him before her . 
Elinor wished that the same forbearance could have extended towards herself , but that was impossible , and she was obliged to listen day after day to the indignation of them all . 
Sir John , could not have thought it possible . 
He wished him at the devil with all his heart . 
She was determined to drop his acquaintance immediately , and she was very thankful that she had never been acquainted with him at all . 
The rest of Mrs. Palmer's sympathy was shewn in procuring all the particulars in her power of the approaching marriage , and communicating them to Elinor . 
She could soon tell at what coachmaker's the new carriage was building , by what painter Mr. Willoughby's portrait was drawn , and at what warehouse Miss Grey's clothes might be seen . 
The calm and polite unconcern of Lady Middleton on the occasion was a happy relief to Elinor's spirits , oppressed as they often were by the clamorous kindness of the others . 
that as Mrs. Willoughby would at once be a woman of elegance and fortune , to leave her card with her as soon as she married . 
Colonel Brandon's delicate , unobtrusive enquiries were never unwelcome to Miss Dashwood . 
He had abundantly earned the privilege of intimate discussion of her sister's disappointment , by the friendly zeal with which he had endeavoured to soften it , and they always conversed with confidence . 
she was obliged , or could oblige herself to speak to him . 
Early in February , within a fortnight from the receipt of Willoughby's letter , Elinor had the painful office of informing her sister that he was married . 
Elinor only was sorry to see them . 
Their presence always gave her pain , and she hardly knew how to make a very gracious return to the overpowering delight of Lucy in finding her STILL in town . 
I should have been quite disappointed if I had not found you here STILL , said she repeatedly , with a strong emphasis on the word . 
But I always thought I SHOULD . 
I was almost sure you would not leave London yet awhile though you TOLD me , you know , at Barton , that you should not stay above a MONTH . 
But I thought , at the time , that you would most likely change your mind when it came to the point . 
It would have been such a great pity to have went away before your brother and sister came . 
And now to be sure you will be in no hurry to be gone . 
I am amazingly glad you did not keep to YOUR WORD . 
Elinor perfectly understood her , and was forced to use all her self command to make it appear that she did NOT . 
Davies was coming to town , and so we thought we'd join him in a post chaise and he behaved very genteelly , and paid ten or twelve shillings more than we did . 
Oh , oh ! cried Mrs. Jennings very pretty , indeed ! and the Doctor is a single man , I warrant you . 
There now , said Miss Steele , affectedly simpering , everybody laughs at me so about the Doctor , and I cannot think why . 
My cousins say they are sure I have made a conquest but for my part I declare I never think about him from one hour's end to another . 
'Lord ! here comes your beau , Nancy , my cousin said t'other day , when she saw him crossing the street to the house . 
My beau , indeed ! said I I cannot think who you mean . 
The Doctor is no beau of mine . 
Aye , aye , that is very pretty talking but it won't do the Doctor is the man , I see . 
No , indeed ! replied her cousin , with affected earnestness , and I beg you will contradict it , if you ever hear it talked of . 
Mrs. Jennings directly gave her the gratifying assurance that she certainly would NOT , and Miss Steele was made completely happy . 
No , I do not think we shall . 
Oh , yes , I dare say you will . 
Elinor would not humour her by farther opposition . 
What a charming thing it is that Mrs. Dashwood can spare you both for so long a time together ! Long a time , indeed ! interposed Mrs. Jennings . 
Why , their visit is but just begun ! Lucy was silenced . 
I am sorry we cannot see your sister , Miss Dashwood , said Miss Steele . 
I am sorry she is not well for Marianne had left the room on their arrival . 
Elinor , with great civility , declined the proposal . 
Her sister was perhaps laid down upon the bed , or in her dressing gown , and therefore not able to come to them . 
Oh , if that's all , cried Miss Steele , we can just as well go and see HER . 
CHAPTER After some opposition , Marianne yielded to her sister's entreaties , and consented to go out with her and Mrs. Jennings one morning for half an hour . 
But the correctness of his eye , and the delicacy of his taste , proved to be beyond his politeness . 
At last the affair was decided . 
Elinor lost no time in bringing her business forward , was on the point of concluding it , when another gentleman presented himself at her side . 
She turned her eyes towards his face , and found him with some surprise to be her brother . 
Their affection and pleasure in meeting was just enough to make a very creditable appearance in Mr. Gray's shop . 
John Dashwood was really far from being sorry to see his sisters again it rather gave them satisfaction and his inquiries after their mother were respectful and attentive . 
Elinor found that he and Fanny had been in town two days . 
I am come here to bespeak Fanny a seal . 
But tomorrow I think I shall certainly be able to call in Berkeley Street , and be introduced to your friend Mrs. Jennings . 
I understand she is a woman of very good fortune . 
And the Middletons too , you must introduce me to THEM . 
As my mother in law's relations , I shall be happy to show them every respect . 
They are excellent neighbours to you in the country , I understand . 
Their attention to our comfort , their friendliness in every particular , is more than I can express . 
I am extremely glad to hear it , upon my word extremely glad indeed . 
It was a great satisfaction to us to hear it , I assure you . 
His visit was duly paid . 
After staying with them half an hour , he asked Elinor to walk with him to Conduit Street , and introduce him to Sir John and Lady Middleton . 
The weather was remarkably fine , and she readily consented . 
As soon as they were out of the house , his enquiries began . 
Who is Colonel Brandon ? Is he a man of fortune ? Yes he has very good property in Dorsetshire . 
I am glad of it . 
He seems a most gentlemanlike man and I think , Elinor , I may congratulate you on the prospect of a very respectable establishment in life . 
Me , brother ! what do you mean ? He likes you . 
I observed him narrowly , and am convinced of it . 
What is the amount of his fortune ? I believe about two thousand a year . 
Indeed I believe you , replied Elinor but I am very sure that Colonel Brandon has not the smallest wish of marrying ME . 
You are mistaken , Elinor you are very much mistaken . 
A very little trouble on your side secures him . 
Perhaps just at present he may be undecided the smallness of your fortune may make him hang back his friends may all advise him against it . 
But some of those little attentions and encouragements which ladies can so easily give will fix him , in spite of himself . 
And there can be no reason why you should not try for him . 
Colonel Brandon must be the man and no civility shall be wanting on my part to make him pleased with you and your family . 
It is a match that must give universal satisfaction . 
In short , it is a kind of thing that lowering his voice to an important whisper will be exceedingly welcome to ALL PARTIES . 
And her mother too , Mrs. Ferrars , a very good natured woman , I am sure it would give her great pleasure she said as much the other day . 
Elinor would not vouchsafe any answer . 
It would be something remarkable , now , he continued , something droll , if Fanny should have a brother and I a sister settling at the same time . 
And yet it is not very unlikely . 
Is Mr. Edward Ferrars , said Elinor , with resolution , going to be married ? It is not actually settled , but there is such a thing in agitation . 
He has a most excellent mother . 
Mrs. Ferrars , with the utmost liberality , will come forward , and settle on him a thousand a year , if the match takes place . 
The lady is the Hon . 
Miss Morton , only daughter of the late Lord Morton , with thirty thousand pounds . 
A very desirable connection on both sides , and I have not a doubt of its taking place in time . 
A thousand a year is a great deal for a mother to give away , to make over for ever but Mrs. Ferrars has a noble spirit . 
And extremely acceptable it is , for we must live at a great expense while we are here . 
He paused for her assent and compassion and she forced herself to say , Your expenses both in town and country must certainly be considerable but your income is a large one . 
Not so large , I dare say , as many people suppose . 
I do not mean to complain , however it is undoubtedly a comfortable one , and I hope will in time be better . 
The enclosure of Norland Common , now carrying on , is a most serious drain . 
And then I have made a little purchase within this half year East Kingham Farm , you must remember the place , where old Gibson used to live . 
The land was so very desirable for me in every respect , so immediately adjoining my own property , that I felt it my duty to buy it . 
I could not have answered it to my conscience to let it fall into any other hands . 
A man must pay for his convenience and it HAS cost me a vast deal of money . 
More than you think it really and intrinsically worth . 
Why , I hope not that . 
Other great and inevitable expenses too we have had on first coming to Norland . 
to supply the place of what was taken away . 
You may guess , after all these expenses , how very far we must be from being rich , and how acceptable Mrs. Ferrars's kindness is . 
Certainly , said Elinor and assisted by her liberality , I hope you may yet live to be in easy circumstances . 
Another year or two may do much towards it , he gravely replied but however there is still a great deal to be done . 
There is not a stone laid of Fanny's green house , and nothing but the plan of the flower garden marked out . 
Where is the green house to be ? Upon the knoll behind the house . 
The old walnut trees are all come down to make room for it . 
It will be a very fine object from many parts of the park , and the flower garden will slope down just before it , and be exceedingly pretty . 
We have cleared away all the old thorns that grew in patches over the brow . 
Elinor kept her concern and her censure to herself and was very thankful that Marianne was not present , to share the provocation . 
She must have a great deal to leave . 
Nothing at all , I should rather suppose for she has only her jointure , which will descend to her children . 
But it is not to be imagined that she lives up to her income . 
Few people of common prudence will do THAT and whatever she saves , she will be able to dispose of . 
Nothing can be kinder than her behaviour and she can hardly do all this , without being aware of the expectation it raises . 
But she raises none in those most concerned . 
Indeed , brother , your anxiety for our welfare and prosperity carries you too far . 
Why , to be sure , said he , seeming to recollect himself , people have little , have very little in their power . 
But , my dear Elinor , what is the matter with Marianne ? she looks very unwell , has lost her colour , and is grown quite thin . 
Is she ill ? She is not well , she has had a nervous complaint on her for several weeks . 
I am sorry for that . 
There was something in her style of beauty , to please them particularly . 
I remember Fanny used to say that she would marry sooner and better than you did not but what she is exceedingly fond of YOU , but so it happened to strike her . 
She will be mistaken , however . 
They were lucky enough to find Lady Middleton at home , and Sir John came in before their visit ended . 
Abundance of civilities passed on all sides . 
I shall have a charming account to carry to Fanny , said he , as he walked back with his sister . 
Lady Middleton is really a most elegant woman ! Such a woman as I am sure Fanny will be glad to know . 
And Mrs. Jennings too , an exceedingly well behaved woman , though not so elegant as her daughter . 
But now I can carry her a most satisfactory account of both . 
The intelligence however , which SHE would not give , soon flowed from another quarter . 
Lucy came very shortly to claim Elinor's compassion on being unable to see Edward , though he had arrived in town with Mr. and Mrs. Dashwood . 
Edward assured them himself of his being in town , within a very short time , by twice calling in Berkeley Street . 
Twice was his card found on the table , when they returned from their morning's engagements . 
Elinor was pleased that he had called and still more pleased that she had missed him . 
They were to meet Mrs. Ferrars but Elinor could not learn whether her sons were to be of the party . 
The interest with which she thus anticipated the party , was soon afterwards increased , more powerfully than pleasantly , by her hearing that the Miss Steeles were also to be at it . 
On Elinor its effect was very different . 
The important Tuesday came that was to introduce the two young ladies to this formidable mother in law . 
I declare I can hardly stand . 
Mrs. Ferrars was a little , thin woman , upright , even to formality , in her figure , and serious , even to sourness , in her aspect . 
Elinor could not NOW be made unhappy by this behaviour . 
Lucy was all exultation on being so honorably distinguished and Miss Steele wanted only to be teazed about Dr . 
Davis to be perfectly happy . 
The dinner was a grand one , the servants were numerous , and every thing bespoke the Mistress's inclination for show , and the Master's ability to support it . 
John Dashwood had not much to say for himself that was worth hearing , and his wife had still less . 
The parties stood thus The two mothers , though each really convinced that her own son was the tallest , politely decided in favour of the other . 
The two grandmothers , with not less partiality , but more sincerity , were equally earnest in support of their own descendant . 
These are done by my eldest sister , said he and you , as a man of taste , will , I dare say , be pleased with them . 
I do not know whether you have ever happened to see any of her performances before , but she is in general reckoned to draw extremely well . 
Hum said Mrs. Ferrars very pretty , and without regarding them at all , returned them to her daughter . 
Marianne could not bear this . 
And so saying , she took the screens out of her sister in law's hands , to admire them herself as they ought to be admired . 
Mrs. Ferrars looked exceedingly angry , and drawing herself up more stiffly than ever , pronounced in retort this bitter philippic , Miss Morton is Lord Morton's daughter . 
Fanny looked very angry too , and her husband was all in a fright at his sister's audacity . 
Marianne's feelings did not stop here . 
Don't let them make YOU unhappy . 
She could say no more her spirits were quite overcome , and hiding her face on Elinor's shoulder , she burst into tears . 
Every body's attention was called , and almost every body was concerned . 
Colonel Brandon rose up and went to them without knowing what he did . 
You would not think it perhaps , but Marianne WAS remarkably handsome a few months ago quite as handsome as Elinor . 
Now you see it is all gone . 
CHAPTER Elinor's curiosity to see Mrs. Ferrars was satisfied . 
She had found in her every thing that could tend to make a farther connection between the families undesirable . 
The chance proved a lucky one , for a message from Mrs. Palmer soon after she arrived , carried Mrs. Jennings away . 
My dear friend , cried Lucy , as soon as they were by themselves , I come to talk to you of my happiness . 
Now was not it so ? You saw it all and was not you quite struck with it ? She was certainly very civil to you . 
Civil ! Did you see nothing but only civility ? I saw a vast deal more . 
You shan't talk me out of my satisfaction . 
I am sure it will all end well , and there will be no difficulties at all , to what I used to think . 
Mrs. Ferrars is a charming woman , and so is your sister . 
Are you ill , Miss Dashwood ? you seem low you don't speak sure you an't well . 
I never was in better health . 
I am glad of it with all my heart but really you did not look it . 
I should be sorry to have YOU ill you , that have been the greatest comfort to me in the world ! Heaven knows what I should have done without your friendship . 
Elinor tried to make a civil answer , though doubting her own success . 
They are such charming women ! I am sure if ever you tell your sister what I think of her , you cannot speak too high . 
But Elinor would not give her any encouragement to hope that she SHOULD tell her sister . 
I am sure I should have seen it in a moment , if Mrs. Ferrars had took a dislike to me . 
I could not have stood it . 
For where she DOES dislike , I know it is most violent . 
Elinor was prevented from making any reply to this civil triumph , by the door's being thrown open , the servant's announcing Mr. Ferrars , and Edward's immediately walking in . 
It was a very awkward moment and the countenance of each shewed that it was so . 
They all looked exceedingly foolish and Edward seemed to have as great an inclination to walk out of the room again , as to advance farther into it . 
The very circumstance , in its unpleasantest form , which they would each have been most anxious to avoid , had fallen on them . 
They were not only all three together , but were together without the relief of any other person . 
The ladies recovered themselves first . 
It was not Lucy's business to put herself forward , and the appearance of secrecy must still be kept up . 
She could therefore only LOOK her tenderness , and after slightly addressing him , said no more . 
which Edward ought to have inquired about , but never did . 
When that was once done , however , it was time for the raptures of Edward to cease for Marianne's joy hurried her into the drawing room immediately . 
Her pleasure in seeing him was like every other of her feelings , strong in itself , and strongly spoken . 
She met him with a hand that would be taken , and a voice that expressed the affection of a sister . 
Edward was the first to speak , and it was to notice Marianne's altered looks , and express his fear of her not finding London agree with her . 
Oh , don't think of me ! she replied with spirited earnestness , though her eyes were filled with tears as she spoke , don't think of MY health . 
Elinor is well , you see . 
That must be enough for us both . 
This remark was not calculated to make Edward or Elinor more easy , nor to conciliate the good will of Lucy , who looked up at Marianne with no very benignant expression . 
Do you like London ? said Edward , willing to say any thing that might introduce another subject . 
I expected much pleasure in it , but I have found none . 
The sight of you , Edward , is the only comfort it has afforded and thank Heaven ! you are what you always were ! She paused no one spoke . 
I think , Elinor , she presently added , we must employ Edward to take care of us in our return to Barton . 
In a week or two , I suppose , we shall be going and , I trust , Edward will not be very unwilling to accept the charge . 
Poor Edward muttered something , but what it was , nobody knew , not even himself . 
But Marianne , who saw his agitation , and could easily trace it to whatever cause best pleased herself , was perfectly satisfied , and soon talked of something else . 
But why were you not there , Edward ? Why did you not come ? I was engaged elsewhere . 
He is the most fearful of giving pain , of wounding expectation , and the most incapable of being selfish , of any body I ever saw . 
Edward , it is so , and I will say it . 
Going so soon ! said Marianne my dear Edward , this must not be . 
And drawing him a little aside , she whispered her persuasion that Lucy could not stay much longer . 
But even this encouragement failed , for he would go and Lucy , who would have outstaid him , had his visit lasted two hours , soon afterwards went away . 
What can bring her here so often ? said Marianne , on her leaving them . 
It is but natural that he should like to see her as well as ourselves . 
Marianne looked at her steadily , and said , You know , Elinor , that this is a kind of talking which I cannot bear . 
I cannot descend to be tricked out of assurances , that are not really wanted . 
CHAPTER Within a few days after this meeting , the newspapers announced to the world , that the lady of Thomas Palmer , Esq . 
was safely delivered of a son and heir a very interesting and satisfactory paragraph , at least to all those intimate connections who knew it before . 
Their hours were therefore made over to Lady Middleton and the two Miss Steeles , by whom their company , in fact was as little valued , as it was professedly sought . 
Though nothing could be more polite than Lady Middleton's behaviour to Elinor and Marianne , she did not really like them at all . 
It was censure in common use , and easily given . 
Their presence was a restraint both on her and on Lucy . 
It checked the idleness of one , and the business of the other . 
Miss Steele was the least discomposed of the three , by their presence and it was in their power to reconcile her to it entirely . 
An effort even yet lighter might have made her their friend . 
One thing DID disturb her and of that she made her daily complaint . 
I come now to the relation of a misfortune , which about this time befell Mrs. John Dashwood . 
The events of this evening were not very remarkable . 
In one of these excursive glances she perceived among a group of young men , the very he , who had given them a lecture on toothpick cases at Gray's . 
Upon my soul , he added , I believe it is nothing more and so I often tell my mother , when she is grieving about it . 
'My dear Madam , I always say to her , 'you must make yourself easy . 
The evil is now irremediable , and it has been entirely your own doing . 
This is the way in which I always consider the matter , and my mother is perfectly convinced of her error . 
You reside in Devonshire , I think , was his next observation , in a cottage near Dawlish . 
Elinor set him right as to its situation and it seemed rather surprising to him that anybody could live in Devonshire , without living near Dawlish . 
He bestowed his hearty approbation however on their species of house . 
For my own part , said he , I am excessively fond of a cottage there is always so much comfort , so much elegance about them . 
I advise every body who is going to build , to build a cottage . 
My friend Lord Courtland came to me the other day on purpose to ask my advice , and laid before me three different plans of Bonomi's . 
I was to decide on the best of them . 
'My dear Courtland , said I , immediately throwing them all into the fire , 'do not adopt either of them , but by all means build a cottage . 
And that I fancy , will be the end of it . 
Some people imagine that there can be no accommodations , no space in a cottage but this is all a mistake . 
I was last month at my friend Elliott's , near Dartford . 
Lady Elliott wished to give a dance . 
'But how can it be done ? said she 'my dear Ferrars , do tell me how it is to be managed . 
Lady Elliott was delighted with the thought . 
We measured the dining room , and found it would hold exactly eighteen couple , and the affair was arranged precisely after my plan . 
Elinor agreed to it all , for she did not think he deserved the compliment of rational opposition . 
Fanny was startled at the proposal . 
You know I am always ready to pay them any attention in my power , as my taking them out this evening shews . 
But they are Lady Middleton's visitors . 
How can I ask them away from her ? Her husband , but with great humility , did not see the force of her objection . 
They had already spent a week in this manner in Conduit Street , and Lady Middleton could not be displeased at their giving the same number of days to such near relations . 
Fanny paused a moment , and then , with fresh vigor , said , My love I would ask them with all my heart , if it was in my power . 
But I had just settled within myself to ask the Miss Steeles to spend a few days with us . 
They are very well behaved , good kind of girls and I think the attention is due to them , as their uncle did so very well by Edward . 
We can ask your sisters some other year , you know but the Miss Steeles may not be in town any more . 
This was enough to make Lucy really and reasonably happy . 
The Miss Steeles removed to Harley Street , and all that reached Elinor of their influence there , strengthened her expectation of the event . 
Sir John , who called on them more than once , brought home such accounts of the favour they were in , as must be universally striking . 
At this point in the first and second edtions , Volume II ended . 
What is it ? Something so strange ! But you shall hear it all . 
When I got to Mr. Palmer's , I found Charlotte quite in a fuss about the child . 
She was sure it was very ill it cried , and fretted , and was all over pimples . 
What ! is Fanny ill ? That is exactly what I said , my dear . 
So you may think what a blow it was to all her vanity and pride . 
So up he flew directly , and a terrible scene took place , for Lucy was come to them by that time , little dreaming what was going on . 
Poor soul ! I pity HER . 
And I must say , I think she was used very hardly for your sister scolded like any fury , and soon drove her into a fainting fit . 
Nancy , she fell upon her knees , and cried bitterly and your brother , he walked about the room , and said he did not know what to do . 
THEN she fell into hysterics again , and he was so frightened that he would send for Mr. Donavan , and Mr. Donavan found the house in all this uproar . 
I declare , I have no patience with your sister and I hope , with all my heart , it will be a match in spite of her . 
I should not wonder , if he was to be in the greatest passion ! and Mr. Donavan thinks just the same . 
I have no pity for either of them . 
I have no notion of people's making such a to do about money and greatness . 
For HIM she felt much compassion for Lucy very little and it cost her some pains to procure that little for the rest of the party none at all . 
As Mrs. Jennings could talk on no other subject , Elinor soon saw the necessity of preparing Marianne for its discussion . 
Elinor's office was a painful one . 
But unwelcome as such a task must be , it was necessary to be done , and Elinor therefore hastened to perform it . 
Her narration was clear and simple and though it could not be given without emotion , it was not accompanied by violent agitation , nor impetuous grief . 
THAT belonged rather to the hearer , for Marianne listened with horror , and cried excessively . 
But Marianne for some time would give credit to neither . 
Her first communication had reached no farther than to state the fact of the engagement , and the length of time it had existed . 
When Lucy first came to Barton Park last November , she told me in confidence of her engagement . 
At these words , Marianne's eyes expressed the astonishment which her lips could not utter . 
After a pause of wonder , she exclaimed Four months ! Have you known of this four months ? Elinor confirmed it . 
So calm ! so cheerful ! how have you been supported ? By feeling that I was doing my duty . 
My promise to Lucy , obliged me to be secret . 
Four months ! and yet you loved him ! Yes . 
But I did not love only him and while the comfort of others was dear to me , I was glad to spare them from knowing how much I felt . 
Now , I can think and speak of it with little emotion . 
I would not have you suffer on my account for I assure you I no longer suffer materially myself . 
I have many things to support me . 
I am not conscious of having provoked the disappointment by any imprudence of my own , I have borne it as much as possible without spreading it farther . 
I acquit Edward of essential misconduct . 
I wish him very happy and I am so sure of his always doing his duty , that though now he may harbour some regret , in the end he must become so . 
Lucy does not want sense , and that is the foundation on which every thing good may be built . 
They are brought more within my comprehension . 
You do not suppose that I have ever felt much . 
I have known myself to be divided from Edward for ever , without hearing one circumstance that could make me less desire the connection . 
Nothing has proved him unworthy nor has anything declared him indifferent to me . 
I have had to contend against the unkindness of his sister , and the insolence of his mother and have suffered the punishment of an attachment , without enjoying its advantages . 
And all this has been going on at a time , when , as you know too well , it has not been my only unhappiness . 
If you can think me capable of ever feeling surely you may suppose that I have suffered NOW . 
Oh ! Elinor , she cried , you have made me hate myself for ever . 
The tenderest caresses followed this confession . 
These were great concessions but where Marianne felt that she had injured , no reparation could be too much for her to make . 
She performed her promise of being discreet , to admiration . 
Such advances towards heroism in her sister , made Elinor feel equal to any thing herself . 
You have heard , I suppose , said he with great solemnity , as soon as he was seated , of the very shocking discovery that took place under our roof yesterday . 
They all looked their assent it seemed too awful a moment for speech . 
Your sister , he continued , has suffered dreadfully . 
Mrs. Ferrars too in short it has been a scene of such complicated distress but I will hope that the storm may be weathered without our being any of us quite overcome . 
Poor Fanny ! she was in hysterics all yesterday . 
But I would not alarm you too much . 
Donavan says there is nothing materially to be apprehended her constitution is a good one , and her resolution equal to any thing . 
And now to be so rewarded ! 'I wish , with all my heart , says poor Fanny in her affectionate way , 'that we had asked your sisters instead of them . 
Here he stopped to be thanked which being done , he went on . 
What poor Mrs. Ferrars suffered , when first Fanny broke it to her , is not to be described . 
'THERE , to be sure , said she , 'I might have thought myself safe . 
She was quite in an agony . 
We consulted together , however , as to what should be done , and at last she determined to send for Edward . 
But I am sorry to relate what ensued . 
Duty , affection , every thing was disregarded . 
I never thought Edward so stubborn , so unfeeling before . 
Your exclamation is very natural . 
Marianne was going to retort , but she remembered her promises , and forbore . 
All this , however , he continued , was urged in vain . 
Edward said very little but what he did say , was in the most determined manner . 
Nothing should prevail on him to give up his engagement . 
He would stand to it , cost him what it might . 
John Dashwood was greatly astonished but his nature was calm , not open to provocation , and he never wished to offend anybody , especially anybody of good fortune . 
He therefore replied , without any resentment , I would by no means speak disrespectfully of any relation of yours , madam . 
Miss Lucy Steele is , I dare say , a very deserving young woman , but in the present case you know , the connection must be impossible . 
In short , I do not mean to reflect upon the behaviour of any person whom you have a regard for , Mrs. Jennings . 
We all wish her extremely happy and Mrs. Ferrars's conduct throughout the whole , has been such as every conscientious , good mother , in like circumstances , would adopt . 
It has been dignified and liberal . 
Edward has drawn his own lot , and I fear it will be a bad one . 
Marianne sighed out her similar apprehension and Elinor's heart wrung for the feelings of Edward , while braving his mother's threats , for a woman who could not reward him . 
He left her house yesterday , but where he is gone , or whether he is still in town , I do not know for WE of course can make no inquiry . 
Poor young man ! and what is to become of him ? What , indeed , ma'am ! It is a melancholy consideration . 
Born to the prospect of such affluence ! I cannot conceive a situation more deplorable . 
I cannot picture to myself a more wretched condition . 
We must all feel for him and the more so , because it is totally out of our power to assist him . 
It is not fit that he should be living about at his own charge now , at lodgings and taverns . 
Elinor's heart thanked her for such kindness towards Edward , though she could not forbear smiling at the form of it . 
But as it is , it must be out of anybody's power to assist him . 
I left her this morning with her lawyer , talking over the business . 
Well ! said Mrs. Jennings , that is HER revenge . 
Everybody has a way of their own . 
But I don't think mine would be , to make one son independent , because another had plagued me . 
Marianne got up and walked about the room . 
CHAPTER Mrs. Jennings was very warm in her praise of Edward's conduct , but only Elinor and Marianne understood its true merit . 
Elinor gloried in his integrity and Marianne forgave all his offences in compassion for his punishment . 
Her mind was so much weakened that she still fancied present exertion impossible , and therefore it only dispirited her more . 
Nothing new was heard by them , for a day or two afterwards , of affairs in Harley Street , or Bartlett's Buildings . 
She saw nothing of the Willoughbys , nothing of Edward , and for some time nothing of anybody who could by any chance whether grave or gay , be interesting to her . 
Mrs. Jennings immediately whispered to Elinor , Get it all out of her , my dear . 
She will tell you any thing if you ask . 
You see I cannot leave Mrs. Clarke . 
It was lucky , however , for Mrs. Jennings's curiosity and Elinor's too , that she would tell any thing WITHOUT being asked for nothing would otherwise have been learnt . 
I am so glad to meet you said Miss Steele , taking her familiarly by the arm for I wanted to see you of all things in the world . 
And then lowering her voice , I suppose Mrs. Jennings has heard all about it . 
Is she angry ? Not at all , I believe , with you . 
That is a good thing . 
And Lady Middleton , is SHE angry ? I cannot suppose it possible that she should . 
I am monstrous glad of it . 
Good gracious ! I have had such a time of it ! I never saw Lucy in such a rage in my life . 
Look , she made me this bow to my hat , and put in the feather last night . 
There now , YOU are going to laugh at me too . 
But why should not I wear pink ribbons ? I do not care if it IS the Doctor's favourite colour . 
I am sure , for my part , I should never have known he DID like it better than any other colour , if he had not happened to say so . 
My cousins have been so plaguing me ! I declare sometimes I do not know which way to look before them . 
She had wandered away to a subject on which Elinor had nothing to say , and therefore soon judged it expedient to find her way back again to the first . 
Whatever Lucy might think about it herself , you know , it was no business of other people to set it down for certain . 
I never heard any thing of the kind hinted at before , I assure you , said Elinor . 
Once Lucy thought to write to him , but then her spirits rose against that . 
I heard him say all this as plain as could possibly be . 
And it was entirely for HER sake , and upon HER account , that he said a word about being off , and not upon his own . 
I will take my oath he never dropt a syllable of being tired of her , or of wishing to marry Miss Morton , or any thing like it . 
I do not understand what you mean by interrupting them , said Elinor you were all in the same room together , were not you ? No , indeed , not us . 
La ! Miss Dashwood , do you think people make love when any body else is by ? Oh , for shame ! To be sure you must know better than that . 
No , no they were shut up in the drawing room together , and all I heard was only by listening at the door . 
How could you behave so unfairly by your sister ? Oh , la ! there is nothing in THAT . 
I only stood at the door , and heard what I could . 
Elinor tried to talk of something else but Miss Steele could not be kept beyond a couple of minutes , from what was uppermost in her mind . 
Edward talks of going to Oxford soon , said she but now he is lodging at No. , Pall Mall . 
I'd lay my life I know what my cousins will say , when they hear of it . 
They will tell me I should write to the Doctor , to get Edward the curacy of his new living . 
I know they will but I am sure I would not do such a thing for all the world . 
You have got your answer ready . 
Miss Steele was going to reply on the same subject , but the approach of her own party made another more necessary . 
Oh , la ! here come the Richardsons . 
I had a vast deal more to say to you , but I must not stay away from them not any longer . 
I assure you they are very genteel people . 
He makes a monstrous deal of money , and they keep their own coach . 
I suppose Lady Middleton won't ask us any more this bout . 
Good by I am sorry Miss Marianne was not here . 
Remember me kindly to her . 
La ! if you have not got your spotted muslin on ! I wonder you was not afraid of its being torn . 
Then they will have a child every year ! and Lord help 'em ! how poor they will be ! I must see what I can give them towards furnishing their house . 
Two maids and two men , indeed ! as I talked of t'other day . 
No , no , they must get a stout girl of all works . 
Betty's sister would never do for them NOW . 
The next morning brought Elinor a letter by the two penny post from Lucy herself . 
It was as follows Bartlett's Building , March . 
Very well indeed ! how prettily she writes ! aye , that was quite proper to let him be off if he would . 
That was just like Lucy . 
Poor soul ! I wish I COULD get him a living , with all my heart . 
She calls me dear Mrs. Jennings , you see . 
She is a good hearted girl as ever lived . 
Very well upon my word . 
That sentence is very prettily turned . 
Yes , yes , I will go and see her , sure enough . 
How attentive she is , to think of every body ! Thank you , my dear , for shewing it me . 
It is as pretty a letter as ever I saw , and does Lucy's head and heart great credit . 
CHAPTER The Miss Dashwoods had now been rather more than two months in town , and Marianne's impatience to be gone increased every day . 
She sighed for the air , the liberty , the quiet of the country and fancied that if any place could give her ease , Barton must do it . 
When she told Marianne what she had done , however , her first reply was not very auspicious . 
Cleveland ! she cried , with great agitation . 
No , I cannot go to Cleveland . 
You forget , said Elinor gently , that its situation is not . 
that it is not in the neighbourhood of . 
But it is in Somersetshire . 
I cannot go into Somersetshire . 
There , where I looked forward to going . 
No , Elinor , you cannot expect me to go there . 
As Marianne's affection for her mother was sincere , it must triumph with little difficulty , over the imaginary evils she had started . 
Mrs. Jennings was so far from being weary of her guest , that she pressed them very earnestly to return with her again from Cleveland . 
This set the matter beyond a doubt . 
She wondered , indeed , at his thinking it necessary to do so but supposed it to be the proper etiquette . 
This is very strange ! sure he need not wait to be older . 
What had really passed between them was to this effect . 
Have I been rightly informed ? Is it so ? Elinor told him that it was . 
The cruelty , the impolitic cruelty , he replied , with great feeling , of dividing , or attempting to divide , two young people long attached to each other , is terrible . 
Mrs. Ferrars does not know what she may be doing what she may drive her son to . 
I have seen Mr. Ferrars two or three times in Harley Street , and am much pleased with him . 
I understand that he intends to take orders . 
Such as it is , however , my pleasure in presenting him to it , will be very great . 
Pray assure him of it . 
Elinor's astonishment at this commission could hardly have been greater , had the Colonel been really making her an offer of his hand . 
But at the same time , she could not help thinking that no one could so well perform it as himself . 
Edward , she believed , was still in town , and fortunately she had heard his address from Miss Steele . 
She could undertake therefore to inform him of it , in the course of the day . 
The smallness of the house , said she , I cannot imagine any inconvenience to them , for it will be in proportion to their family and income . 
This little rectory CAN do no more than make Mr. Ferrars comfortable as a bachelor it cannot enable him to marry . 
I am sorry to say that my patronage ends with this and my interest is hardly more extensive . 
What I am now doing indeed , seems nothing at all , since it can advance him so little towards what must be his principal , his only object of happiness . 
His marriage must still be a distant good at least , I am afraid it cannot take place very soon . 
And I assure you I never was better pleased in my life , and I wish you joy of it with all my heart . 
Thank you , ma'am , said Elinor . 
It is a matter of great joy to me and I feel the goodness of Colonel Brandon most sensibly . 
There are not many men who would act as he has done . 
Few people who have so compassionate a heart ! I never was more astonished in my life . 
Lord ! my dear , you are very modest . 
I an't the least astonished at it in the world , for I have often thought of late , there was nothing more likely to happen . 
You judged from your knowledge of the Colonel's general benevolence but at least you could not foresee that the opportunity would so very soon occur . 
You mean to go to Delaford after them I suppose , said Elinor , with a faint smile . 
Aye , my dear , that I do , indeed . 
And as to the house being a bad one , I do not know what the Colonel would be at , for it is as good a one as ever I saw . 
He spoke of its being out of repair . 
But , however , we may have it all over in the evening for we shall be quite alone . 
Marianne had left the room before the conversation began . 
Certainly , ma'am , I shall tell Marianne of it but I shall not mention it at present to any body else . 
Oh ! very well , said Mrs. Jennings rather disappointed . 
Then you would not have me tell it to Lucy , for I think of going as far as Holborn to day . 
No , ma'am , not even Lucy if you please . 
One day's delay will not be very material and till I have written to Mr. Ferrars , I think it ought not to be mentioned to any body else . 
I shall do THAT directly . 
It is of importance that no time should be lost with him , for he will of course have much to do relative to his ordination . 
This speech at first puzzled Mrs. Jennings exceedingly . 
Why Mr. Ferrars was to have been written to about it in such a hurry , she could not immediately comprehend . 
A few moments' reflection , however , produced a very happy idea , and she exclaimed Oh , ho ! I understand you . 
Mr. Ferrars is to be the man . 
Well , so much the better for him . 
Ay , to be sure , he must be ordained in readiness and I am very glad to find things are so forward between you . 
But , my dear , is not this rather out of character ? Should not the Colonel write himself ? sure , he is the proper person . 
Elinor did not quite understand the beginning of Mrs. Jennings's speech , neither did she think it worth inquiring into and therefore only replied to its conclusion . 
Colonel Brandon is so delicate a man , that he rather wished any one to announce his intentions to Mr. Ferrars than himself . 
And so YOU are forced to do it . 
You know your own concerns best . 
So goodby , my dear . 
I have not heard of any thing to please me so well since Charlotte was brought to bed . 
And away she went but returning again in a moment , I have just been thinking of Betty's sister , my dear . 
I should be very glad to get her so good a mistress . 
But whether she would do for a lady's maid , I am sure I can't tell . 
She is an excellent housemaid , and works very well at her needle . 
However , you will think of all that at your leisure . 
Certainly , ma'am , replied Elinor , not hearing much of what she said , and more anxious to be alone , than to be mistress of the subject . 
How she should begin how she should express herself in her note to Edward , was now all her concern . 
Her astonishment and confusion were very great on his so sudden appearance . 
He too was much distressed and they sat down together in a most promising state of embarrassment . 
I go to Oxford tomorrow . 
Mrs. Jennings was quite right in what she said . 
I have something of consequence to inform you of , which I was on the point of communicating by paper . 
What Edward felt , as he could not say it himself , it cannot be expected that any one else should say for him . 
Colonel Brandon give ME a living ! Can it be possible ? The unkindness of your own relations has made you astonished to find friendship any where . 
No , replied be , with sudden consciousness , not to find it in YOU for I cannot be ignorant that to you , to your goodness , I owe it all . 
I feel it I would express it if I could but , as you well know , I am no orator . 
You are very much mistaken . 
I do assure you that you owe it entirely , at least almost entirely , to your own merit , and Colonel Brandon's discernment of it . 
I have had no hand in it . 
I have always heard him spoken of as such , and your brother I know esteems him highly . 
He is undoubtedly a sensible man , and in his manners perfectly the gentleman . 
it is particularly important that he SHOULD be all this . 
Colonel Brandon , I think , lodges in St . 
James Street , said he , soon afterwards , rising from his chair . 
Elinor told him the number of the house . 
When I see him again , said Elinor to herself , as the door shut him out , I shall see him the husband of Lucy . 
Well , my dear , she cried , I sent you up to the young man . 
Well , and how soon will he be ready ? For it seems all to depend upon that . 
Sure somebody else might be found that would do as well somebody that is in orders already . 
My dear ma'am , said Elinor , what can you be thinking of ? Why , Colonel Brandon's only object is to be of use to Mr. Ferrars . 
But , my dear , we must touch up the Colonel to do some thing to the parsonage , and make it comfortable for them , before Lucy goes to it . 
But Colonel Brandon does not seem to have any idea of the living's being enough to allow them to marry . 
The Colonel is a ninny , my dear because he has two thousand a year himself , he thinks that nobody else can marry on less . 
Elinor was quite of her opinion , as to the probability of their not waiting for any thing more . 
This was an obligation , however , which not only opposed her own inclination , but which had not the assistance of any encouragement from her companions . 
Mrs. Dashwood was denied but before the carriage could turn from the house , her husband accidentally came out . 
They walked up stairs in to the drawing room . 
Very far from it , indeed . 
NOW especially there cannot be but however , you and Marianne were always great favourites . 
Why would not Marianne come ? Elinor made what excuse she could for her . 
I am not sorry to see you alone , he replied , for I have a good deal to say to you . 
Colonel Brandon has given the living of Delaford to Edward . 
I suppose , however on recollection that the case may probably be THIS . 
Edward is only to hold the living till the person to whom the Colonel has really sold the presentation , is old enough to take it . 
Aye , aye , that is the fact , depend upon it . 
It is truly astonishing ! he cried , after hearing what she said what could be the Colonel's motive ? A very simple one to be of use to Mr. Ferrars . 
Well , well whatever Colonel Brandon may be , Edward is a very lucky man . 
When the marriage takes place , I fear she must hear of it all . 
Surely , after doing so , she cannot be imagined liable to any impression of sorrow or of joy on his account she cannot be interested in any thing that befalls him . 
Mrs. Ferrars can never forget that Edward is her son . 
You surprise me I should think it must nearly have escaped her memory by THIS time . 
Mrs. Ferrars is one of the most affectionate mothers in the world . 
We think NOW , said Mr. Dashwood , after a short pause , of ROBERT'S marrying Miss Morton . 
Elinor , smiling at the grave and decisive importance of her brother's tone , calmly replied , The lady , I suppose , has no choice in the affair . 
Elinor said no more , and John was also for a short time silent . 
I was exceedingly pleased to hear that Mrs. Ferrars considered it in that light a very gratifying circumstance you know to us all . 
'It would have been beyond comparison , she said , 'the least evil of the two , and she would be glad to compound NOW for nothing worse . 
But however , all that is quite out of the question not to be thought of or mentioned as to any attachment you know it never could be all that is gone by . 
But I thought I would just tell you of this , because I knew how much it must please you . 
Not that you have any reason to regret , my dear Elinor . 
There is no doubt of your doing exceedingly well quite as well , or better , perhaps , all things considered . 
It was a look , however , very well bestowed , for it relieved her own feelings , and gave no intelligence to him . 
He was recalled from wit to wisdom , not by any reproof of her's , but by his own sensibility . 
Poor Edward ! he is ruined for ever . 
I am extremely sorry for it for I know him to be a very good hearted creature as well meaning a fellow perhaps , as any in the world . 
You must not judge of him , Miss Dashwood , from YOUR slight acquaintance . 
Poor Edward ! His manners are certainly not the happiest in nature . 
But we are not all born , you know , with the same powers , the same address . 
I could not believe it . 
That was what I said immediately . 
My poor mother was half frantic . 
Have you ever seen the lady ? Yes once , while she was staying in this house , I happened to drop in for ten minutes and I saw quite enough of her . 
The merest awkward country girl , without style , or elegance , and almost without beauty . 
Just the kind of girl I should suppose likely to captivate poor Edward . 
But had I been informed of it a few hours earlier I think it is most probable that something might have been hit on . 
I certainly should have represented it to Edward in a very strong light . 
'My dear fellow , I should have said , 'consider what you are doing . 
You are making a most disgraceful connection , and such a one as your family are unanimous in disapproving . 
I cannot help thinking , in short , that means might have been found . 
But now it is all too late . 
He must be starved , you know that is certain absolutely starved . 
He had just settled this point with great composure , when the entrance of Mrs. John Dashwood put an end to the subject . 
Nor could she leave the place in which Willoughby remained , busy in new engagements , and new schemes , in which SHE could have no share , without shedding many tears . 
Elinor's satisfaction , at the moment of removal , was more positive . 
Their journey was safely performed . 
Cleveland was a spacious , modern built house , situated on a sloping lawn . 
The morning was fine and dry , and Marianne , in her plan of employment abroad , had not calculated for any change of weather during their stay at Cleveland . 
With great surprise therefore , did she find herself prevented by a settled rain from going out again after dinner . 
Their party was small , and the hours passed quietly away . 
Nothing was wanting on Mrs. Palmer's side that constant and friendly good humour could do , to make them feel themselves welcome . 
For the rest of his character and habits , they were marked , as far as Elinor could perceive , with no traits at all unusual in his sex and time of life . 
Prescriptions poured in from all quarters , and as usual , were all declined . 
CHAPTER Marianne got up the next morning at her usual time to every inquiry replied that she was better , and tried to prove herself so , by engaging in her accustomary employments . 
The next day produced little or no alteration in the state of the patient she certainly was not better , and , except that there was no amendment , did not appear worse . 
Marianne was , of course , kept in ignorance of all these arrangements . 
She knew not that she had been the means of sending the owners of Cleveland away , in about seven days from the time of their arrival . 
It gave her no surprise that she saw nothing of Mrs. Palmer and as it gave her likewise no concern , she never mentioned her name . 
Two days passed away from the time of Mr. Palmer's departure , and her situation continued , with little variation , the same . 
On the morning of the third day however , the gloomy anticipations of both were almost done away for when Mr. Harris arrived , he declared his patient materially better . 
Her pulse was much stronger , and every symptom more favourable than on the preceding visit . 
But the day did not close so auspiciously as it began . 
Towards the evening Marianne became ill again , growing more heavy , restless , and uncomfortable than before . 
It is a great way , you know , from hence to Barton . 
But she must not go round by London , cried Marianne , in the same hurried manner . 
I shall never see her , if she goes by London . 
Elinor perceived with alarm that she was not quite herself , and , while attempting to soothe her , eagerly felt her pulse . 
It was no time for hesitation . 
Her fears and her difficulties were immediately before him . 
Elinor made no resistance that was not easily overcome . 
Not a moment was lost in delay of any kind . 
It was then about twelve o'clock , and she returned to her sister's apartment to wait for the arrival of the apothecary , and to watch by her the rest of the night . 
It was a night of almost equal suffering to both . 
Hour after hour passed away in sleepless pain and delirium on Marianne's side , and in the most cruel anxiety on Elinor's , before Mr. Harris appeared . 
He promised to call again in the course of three or four hours , and left both the patient and her anxious attendant more composed than he had found them . 
With strong concern , and with many reproaches for not being called to their aid , did Mrs. Jennings hear in the morning of what had passed . 
Her heart was really grieved . 
The rapid decay , the early death of a girl so young , so lovely as Marianne , must have struck a less interested person with concern . 
On Mrs. Jennings's compassion she had other claims . 
She had been for three months her companion , was still under her care , and she was known to have been greatly injured , and long unhappy . 
Mr. Harris was punctual in his second visit but he came to be disappointed in his hopes of what the last would produce . 
His medicines had failed the fever was unabated and Marianne only more quiet not more herself remained in a heavy stupor . 
Elinor , catching all , and more than all , his fears in a moment , proposed to call in further advice . 
Elinor felt all the reasonableness of the idea , and it gave fresh misery to her reflections . 
But it was too late . 
Hope had already entered and feeling all its anxious flutter , she bent over her sister to watch she hardly knew for what . 
Half an hour passed away , and the favourable symptom yet blessed her . 
Others even arose to confirm it . 
Her breath , her skin , her lips , all flattered Elinor with signs of amendment and Marianne fixed her eyes on her with a rational , though languid , gaze . 
Marianne was in every respect materially better , and he declared her entirely out of danger . 
Elinor could not be cheerful . 
Her joy was of a different kind , and led to any thing rather than to gaiety . 
All within Elinor's breast was satisfaction , silent and strong . 
The time was now drawing on , when Colonel Brandon might be expected back . 
At ten o'clock , she trusted , or at least not much later her mother would be relieved from the dreadful suspense in which she must now be travelling towards them . 
The night was cold and stormy . 
The wind roared round the house , and the rain beat against the windows but Elinor , all happiness within , regarded it not . 
Marianne slept through every blast and the travellers they had a rich reward in store , for every present inconvenience . 
She instantly saw that her ears had not deceived her . 
The flaring lamps of a carriage were immediately in view . 
Never in her life had Elinor found it so difficult to be calm , as at that moment . 
All that remained to be done was to be speedy and , therefore staying only till she could leave Mrs. Jennings's maid with her sister , she hurried down stairs . 
The bustle in the vestibule , as she passed along an inner lobby , assured her that they were already in the house . 
She rushed to the drawing room , she entered it , and saw only Willoughby . 
No , sir , she replied with firmness , I shall NOT stay . 
Your business cannot be with ME . 
The servants , I suppose , forgot to tell you that Mr. Palmer was not in the house . 
Had they told me , he cried with vehemence , that Mr. Palmer and all his relations were at the devil , it would not have turned me from the door . 
My business is with you , and only you . 
With me ! in the utmost amazement well , sir , be quick and if you can less violent . 
Sit down , and I will be both . 
She hesitated she knew not what to do . 
The possibility of Colonel Brandon's arriving and finding her there , came across her . 
But she had promised to hear him , and her curiosity no less than her honor was engaged . 
After a moment's recollection , therefore , concluding that prudence required dispatch , and that her acquiescence would best promote it , she walked silently towards the table , and sat down . 
He took the opposite chair , and for half a minute not a word was said by either . 
Pray be quick , sir , said Elinor , impatiently I have no time to spare . 
He was sitting in an attitude of deep meditation , and seemed not to hear her . 
Your sister , said he , with abruptness , a moment afterwards is out of danger . 
I heard it from the servant . 
God be praised ! But is it true ? is it really true ? Elinor would not speak . 
He repeated the inquiry with yet greater eagerness . 
For God's sake tell me , is she out of danger , or is she not ? We hope she is . 
He rose up , and walked across the room . 
I am in a fine mood for gaiety . 
Tell me honestly a deeper glow overspreading his cheeks do you think me most a knave or a fool ? Elinor looked at him with greater astonishment than ever . 
Whatever your business may be with me , will it be better recollected and explained to morrow . 
I understand you , he replied , with an expressive smile , and a voice perfectly calm yes , I am very drunk . 
A pint of porter with my cold beef at Marlborough was enough to over set me . 
At Marlborough ! cried Elinor , more and more at a loss to understand what he would be at . 
Yes , I left London this morning at eight o'clock , and the only ten minutes I have spent out of my chaise since that time procured me a nuncheon at Marlborough . 
If that is all , you may be satisfied already , for Marianne DOES she has LONG forgiven you . 
Has she ? he cried , in the same eager tone . 
Then she has forgiven me before she ought to have done it . 
But she shall forgive me again , and on more reasonable grounds . 
NOW will you listen to me ? Elinor bowed her assent . 
Perhaps you will hardly think the better of me , it is worth the trial however , and you shall hear every thing . 
Such a beginning as this cannot be followed by any thing . 
Do not let me be pained by hearing any thing more on the subject . 
The event has proved , that I was a cunning fool , providing with great circumspection for a possible opportunity of making myself contemptible and wretched for ever . 
A discovery took place , here he hesitated and looked down . 
I have , returned Elinor , colouring likewise , and hardening her heart anew against any compassion for him , I have heard it all . 
And how you will explain away any part of your guilt in that dreadful business , I confess is beyond my comprehension . 
Remember , cried Willoughby , from whom you received the account . 
Could it be an impartial one ? I acknowledge that her situation and her character ought to have been respected by me . 
If the violence of her passions , the weakness of her understanding I do not mean , however , to defend myself . 
I wish I heartily wish it had never been . 
Do not think yourself excused by any weakness , any natural defect of understanding on her side , in the wanton cruelty so evident on yours . 
You must have known , that while you were enjoying yourself in Devonshire pursuing fresh schemes , always gay , always happy , she was reduced to the extremest indigence . 
Well , sir , and what said Mrs. Smith ? She taxed me with the offence at once , and my confusion may be guessed . 
The purity of her life , the formality of her notions , her ignorance of the world every thing was against me . 
The matter itself I could not deny , and vain was every endeavour to soften it . 
In short , it ended in a total breach . 
By one measure I might have saved myself . 
In the height of her morality , good woman ! she offered to forgive the past , if I would marry Eliza . 
That could not be and I was formally dismissed from her favour and her house . 
The night following this affair I was to go the next morning was spent by me in deliberating on what my future conduct should be . 
The struggle was great but it ended too soon . 
A heavy scene however awaited me , before I could leave Devonshire I was engaged to dine with you on that very day some apology was therefore necessary for my breaking this engagement . 
But whether I should write this apology , or deliver it in person , was a point of long debate . 
To see Marianne , I felt , would be dreadful , and I even doubted whether I could see her again , and keep to my resolution . 
Why did you call , Mr. Willoughby ? said Elinor , reproachfully a note would have answered every purpose . 
Why was it necessary to call ? It was necessary to my own pride . 
The sight of your dear sister , however , was really dreadful and , to heighten the matter , I found her alone . 
You were all gone I do not know where . 
I cannot think of it . 
Then came your dear mother to torture me farther , with all her kindness and confidence . 
Thank Heaven ! it DID torture me . 
Miss Dashwood , you cannot have an idea of the comfort it gives me to look back on my own misery . 
I owe such a grudge to myself for the stupid , rascally folly of my own heart , that all my past sufferings under it are only triumph and exultation to me now . 
Well , I went , left all that I loved , and went to those to whom , at best , I was only indifferent . 
what I felt is in the common phrase , not to be expressed in a more simple one perhaps too simple to raise any emotion my feelings were very , very painful . 
Every line , every word was in the hackneyed metaphor which their dear writer , were she here , would forbid a dagger to my heart . 
To know that Marianne was in town was in the same language a thunderbolt . 
This is not right , Mr. Willoughby . 
Remember that you are married . 
Relate only what in your conscience you think necessary for me to hear . 
But this note made me know myself better . 
I felt that she was infinitely dearer to me than any other woman in the world , and that I was using her infamously . 
But every thing was then just settled between Miss Grey and me . 
All that I had to do , was to avoid you both . 
Watched us out of the house ! Even so . 
You would be surprised to hear how often I watched you , how often I was on the point of falling in with you . 
I have entered many a shop to avoid your sight , as the carriage drove by . 
I avoided the Middletons as much as possible , as well as everybody else who was likely to prove an acquaintance in common . 
He asked me to a party , a dance at his house in the evening . 
Had he NOT told me as an inducement that you and your sister were to be there , I should have felt it too certain a thing , to trust myself near him . 
The next morning brought another short note from Marianne still affectionate , open , artless , confiding everything that could make MY conduct most hateful . 
I could not answer it . 
I tried but could not frame a sentence . 
But I thought of her , I believe , every moment of the day . 
If you CAN pity me , Miss Dashwood , pity my situation as it was THEN . 
With my head and heart full of your sister , I was forced to play the happy lover to another woman ! Those three or four weeks were worse than all . 
Such an evening ! I ran away from you all as soon as I could but not before I had seen Marianne's sweet face as white as death . 
THAT was the last , last look I ever had of her the last manner in which she appeared to me . 
She was before me , constantly before me , as I travelled , in the same look and hue . 
A short pause of mutual thoughtfulness succeeded . 
Willoughby first rousing himself , broke it thus Well , let me make haste and be gone . 
Your sister is certainly better , certainly out of danger ? We are assured of it . 
Your poor mother , too ! doting on Marianne . 
But the letter , Mr. Willoughby , your own letter have you any thing to say about that ? Yes , yes , THAT in particular . 
Your sister wrote to me again , you know , the very next morning . 
You saw what she said . 
I was breakfasting at the Ellisons , and her letter , with some others , was brought to me there from my lodgings . 
It happened to catch Sophia's eye before it caught mine and its size , the elegance of the paper , the hand writing altogether , immediately gave her a suspicion . 
Affecting that air of playfulness , therefore , which is delightful in a woman one loves , she opened the letter directly , and read its contents . 
She was well paid for her impudence . 
She read what made her wretched . 
Her wretchedness I could have borne , but her passion her malice At all events it must be appeased . 
Yes , but I had only the credit of servilely copying such sentences as I was ashamed to put my name to . 
The original was all her own her own happy thoughts and gentle diction . 
But what could I do ! we were engaged , every thing in preparation , the day almost fixed But I am talking like a fool . 
Preparation ! day ! In honest words , her money was necessary to me , and in a situation like mine , any thing was to be done to prevent a rupture . 
My business was to declare myself a scoundrel , and whether I did it with a bow or a bluster was of little importance . 
Such were my reasonings , as , in a sort of desperate carelessness , I copied my wife's words , and parted with the last relics of Marianne . 
You had made your own choice . 
It was not forced on you . 
Your wife has a claim to your politeness , to your respect , at least . 
She must be attached to you , or she would not have married you . 
To treat her with unkindness , to speak of her slightingly is no atonement to Marianne nor can I suppose it a relief to your own conscience . 
Do not talk to me of my wife , said he with a heavy sigh . 
She does not deserve your compassion . 
She knew I had no regard for her when we married . 
Well , married we were , and came down to Combe Magna to be happy , and afterwards returned to town to be gay . 
Have I explained away any part of my guilt ? Yes , you have certainly removed something a little . 
You have proved yourself , on the whole , less faulty than I had believed you . 
You have proved your heart less wicked , much less wicked . 
But I hardly know the misery that you have inflicted I hardly know what could have made it worse . 
Will you repeat to your sister when she is recovered , what I have been telling you ? Let me be a little lightened too in her opinion as well as in yours . 
You tell me that she has forgiven me already . 
I will tell her all that is necessary to what may comparatively be called , your justification . 
But you have not explained to me the particular reason of your coming now , nor how you heard of her illness . 
Last night , in Drury Lane lobby , I ran against Sir John Middleton , and when he saw who I was for the first time these two months he spoke to me . 
That he had cut me ever since my marriage , I had seen without surprise or resentment . 
I was too much shocked to be able to pass myself off as insensible even to the undiscerning Sir John . 
The world had made him extravagant and vain Extravagance and vanity had made him cold hearted and selfish . 
Each faulty propensity in leading him to evil , had led him likewise to punishment . 
Are you going back to town ? No to Combe Magna . 
I have business there from thence to town in a day or two . 
He held out his hand . 
She could not refuse to give him hers's he pressed it with affection . 
And you DO think something better of me than you did ? said he , letting it fall , and leaning against the mantel piece as if forgetting he was to go . 
His answer was not very encouraging . 
As to that , said he , I must rub through the world as well as I can . 
Domestic happiness is out of the question . 
Marianne to be sure is lost to me for ever . 
Were I even by any blessed chance at liberty again Elinor stopped him with a reproof . 
Well , he replied once more good bye . 
I shall now go away and live in dread of one event . 
What do you mean ? Your sister's marriage . 
She can never be more lost to you than she is now . 
But she will be gained by some one else . 
Good bye , God bless you ! And with these words , he almost ran out of the room . 
But she felt that it was so , long , long before she could feel his influence less . 
When at last she returned to the unconscious Marianne , she found her just awaking , refreshed by so long and sweet a sleep to the extent of her hopes . 
He shared it , however , in a silence even greater than her own . 
Mrs. Dashwood WOULD sit up with her all night and Elinor , in compliance with her mother's entreaty , went to bed . 
But the rest , which one night entirely sleepless , and many hours of the most wearing anxiety seemed to make requisite , was kept off by irritation of spirits . 
But her promise of relating it to her sister was invariably painful . 
Elinor could not hear the declaration , nor witness its proofs without sometimes wondering whether her mother ever recollected Edward . 
It was thus imparted to her , as soon as any opportunity of private conference between them occurred . 
At last we are alone . 
My Elinor , you do not yet know all my happiness . 
He has told me so himself . 
Her daughter , feeling by turns both pleased and pained , surprised and not surprised , was all silent attention . 
You are never like me , dear Elinor , or I should wonder at your composure now . 
Had I sat down to wish for any possible good to my family , I should have fixed on Colonel Brandon's marrying one of you as the object most desirable . 
And I believe Marianne will be the most happy with him of the two . 
He opened his whole heart to me yesterday as we travelled . 
It came out quite unawares , quite undesignedly . 
He has loved her , my Elinor , ever since the first moment of seeing her . 
Colonel Brandon's character , said Elinor , as an excellent man , is well established . 
I know it is replied her mother seriously , or after such a warning , I should be the last to encourage such affection , or even to be pleased by it . 
But his coming for me as he did , with such active , such ready friendship , is enough to prove him one of the worthiest of men . 
What answer did you give him ? Did you allow him to hope ? Oh ! my love , I could not then talk of hope to him or to myself . 
Marianne might at that moment be dying . 
But he did not ask for hope or encouragement . 
His was an involuntary confidence , an irrepressible effusion to a soothing friend not an application to a parent . 
Time , a very little time , I tell him , will do everything Marianne's heart is not to be wasted for ever on such a man as Willoughby . 
His own merits must soon secure it . 
To judge from the Colonel's spirits , however , you have not yet made him equally sanguine . 
There , however , he is quite mistaken . 
And his person , his manners too , are all in his favour . 
My partiality does not blind me he certainly is not so handsome as Willoughby but at the same time , there is something much more pleasing in his countenance . 
There was always a something , if you remember , in Willoughby's eyes at times , which I did not like . 
Her daughter could not quite agree with her , but her dissent was not heard , and therefore gave no offence . 
Poor Elinor ! here was a new scheme for getting her to Delaford ! but her spirit was stubborn . 
When there , at her own particular request , for she was impatient to pour forth her thanks to him for fetching her mother , Colonel Brandon was invited to visit her . 
The Dashwoods were two days on the road , and Marianne bore her journey on both , without essential fatigue . 
To Elinor , the observation of the latter was particularly grateful . 
She said little , but every sentence aimed at cheerfulness , and though a sigh sometimes escaped her , it never passed away without the atonement of a smile . 
After dinner she would try her piano forte . 
The next morning produced no abatement in these happy symptoms . 
When the weather is settled , and I have recovered my strength , said she , we will take long walks together every day . 
I know we shall be happy . 
I know the summer will pass happily away . 
I mean never to be later in rising than six , and from that time till dinner I shall divide every moment between music and reading . 
I have formed my plan , and am determined to enter on a course of serious study . 
Our own library is too well known to me , to be resorted to for any thing beyond mere amusement . 
But there are many works well worth reading at the Park and there are others of more modern production which I know I can borrow of Colonel Brandon . 
By reading only six hours a day , I shall gain in the course of a twelve month a great deal of instruction which I now feel myself to want . 
Willing therefore to delay the evil hour , she resolved to wait till her sister's health were more secure , before she appointed it . 
But the resolution was made only to be broken . 
Marianne had been two or three days at home , before the weather was fine enough for an invalid like herself to venture out . 
Or will it be wrong ? I can talk of it now , I hope , as I ought to do . 
Elinor tenderly invited her to be open . 
As for regret , said Marianne , I have done with that , as far as HE is concerned . 
I do not mean to talk to you of what my feelings have been for him , but what they are NOW . 
Elinor joyfully treasured her words as she answered , If you could be assured of that , you think you should be easy . 
She was debating within herself on the eligibility of beginning her story directly , or postponing it till Marianne were in stronger health and they crept on for a few minutes in silence . 
I am not wishing him too much good , said Marianne at last with a sigh , when I wish his secret reflections may be no more unpleasant than my own . 
He will suffer enough in them . 
Do you compare your conduct with his ? No. I compare it with what it ought to have been I compare it with yours . 
Our situations have borne little resemblance . 
They have borne more than our conduct . 
Do not , my dearest Elinor , let your kindness defend what I know your judgment must censure . 
My illness has made me think It has given me leisure and calmness for serious recollection . 
Long before I was enough recovered to talk , I was perfectly able to reflect . 
I saw that my own feelings had prepared my sufferings , and that my want of fortitude under them had almost led me to the grave . 
My illness , I well knew , had been entirely brought on by myself by such negligence of my own health , as I had felt even at the time to be wrong . 
Had I died , it would have been self destruction . 
Whenever I looked towards the past , I saw some duty neglected , or some failing indulged . 
Every body seemed injured by me . 
The kindness , the unceasing kindness of Mrs. Jennings , I had repaid with ungrateful contempt . 
To John , to Fanny , yes , even to them , little as they deserve , I had given less than their due . 
But you , you above all , above my mother , had been wronged by me . 
I , and only I , knew your heart and its sorrows yet to what did it influence me ? not to any compassion that could benefit you or myself . 
Marianne pressed her hand and replied , You are very good . 
The future must be my proof . 
I have laid down my plan , and if I am capable of adhering to it my feelings shall be governed and my temper improved . 
They shall no longer worry others , nor torture myself . 
I shall now live solely for my family . 
You , my mother , and Margaret , must henceforth be all the world to me you will share my affections entirely between you . 
As for Willoughby to say that I shall soon or that I shall ever forget him , would be idle . 
His remembrance can be overcome by no change of circumstances or opinions . 
But it shall be regulated , it shall be checked by religion , by reason , by constant employment . 
She paused and added in a low voice , If I could but know HIS heart , everything would become easy . 
Marianne said not a word . 
She trembled , her eyes were fixed on the ground , and her lips became whiter than even sickness had left them . 
A thousand inquiries sprung up from her heart , but she dared not urge one . 
She caught every syllable with panting eagerness her hand , unknowingly to herself , closely pressed her sister's , and tears covered her cheeks . 
CHAPTER Mrs. Dashwood did not hear unmoved the vindication of her former favourite . 
She rejoiced in his being cleared from some part of his imputed guilt she was sorry for him she wished him happy . 
But the feelings of the past could not be recalled . 
Nothing could restore him with a faith unbroken a character unblemished , to Marianne . 
Nothing could do away the knowledge of what the latter had suffered through his means , nor remove the guilt of his conduct towards Eliza . 
Nothing could replace him , therefore , in her former esteem , nor injure the interests of Colonel Brandon . 
I wish to assure you both , said she , that I see every thing as you can desire me to do . 
Mrs. Dashwood would have interrupted her instantly with soothing tenderness , had not Elinor , who really wished to hear her sister's unbiased opinion , by an eager sign , engaged her silence . 
Marianne slowly continued It is a great relief to me what Elinor told me this morning I have now heard exactly what I wished to hear . 
For some moments her voice was lost but recovering herself , she added , and with greater calmness than before I am now perfectly satisfied , I wish for no change . 
I never could have been happy with him , after knowing , as sooner or later I must have known , all this . 
I should have had no confidence , no esteem . 
Nothing could have done it away to my feelings . 
I know it I know it , cried her mother . 
Marianne sighed , and repeated , I wish for no change . 
Had you married , you must have been always poor . 
His expensiveness is acknowledged even by himself , and his whole conduct declares that self denial is a word hardly understood by him . 
His own enjoyment , or his own ease , was , in every particular , his ruling principle . 
MY happiness never was his object . 
At present , continued Elinor , he regrets what he has done . 
And why does he regret it ? Because he finds it has not answered towards himself . 
It has not made him happy . 
His circumstances are now unembarrassed he suffers from no evil of that kind and he thinks only that he has married a woman of a less amiable temper than yourself . 
But does it follow that had he married you , he would have been happy ? The inconveniences would have been different . 
He would then have suffered under the pecuniary distresses which , because they are removed , he now reckons as nothing . 
I have not a doubt of it , said Marianne and I have nothing to regret nothing but my own folly . 
Rather say your mother's imprudence , my child , said Mrs. Dashwood SHE must be answerable . 
That crime has been the origin of every lesser one , and of all his present discontents . 
Marianne assented most feelingly to the remark and her mother was led by it to an enumeration of Colonel Brandon's injuries and merits , warm as friendship and design could unitedly dictate . 
Her daughter did not look , however , as if much of it were heard by her . 
Elinor grew impatient for some tidings of Edward . 
She had heard nothing of him since her leaving London , nothing new of his plans , nothing certain even of his present abode . 
She was not doomed , however , to be long in ignorance of his measures . 
Marianne gave a violent start , fixed her eyes upon Elinor , saw her turning pale , and fell back in her chair in hysterics . 
Mrs. Dashwood immediately took all that trouble on herself and Elinor had the benefit of the information without the exertion of seeking it . 
Who told you that Mr. Ferrars was married , Thomas ? I see Mr. Ferrars myself , ma'am , this morning in Exeter , and his lady too , Miss Steele as was . 
But did she tell you she was married , Thomas ? Yes , ma'am . 
She smiled , and said how she had changed her name since she was in these parts . 
She was always a very affable and free spoken young lady , and very civil behaved . 
So , I made free to wish her joy . 
Elinor's heart could easily account for his not putting himself forward and Mrs. Dashwood probably found the same explanation . 
Was there no one else in the carriage ? No , ma'am , only they two . 
Do you know where they came from ? They come straight from town , as Miss Lucy Mrs. Ferrars told me . 
And are they going farther westward ? Yes , ma'am but not to bide long . 
They will soon be back again , and then they'd be sure and call here . 
Mrs. Dashwood now looked at her daughter but Elinor knew better than to expect them . 
She recognised the whole of Lucy in the message , and was very confident that Edward would never come near them . 
She observed in a low voice , to her mother , that they were probably going down to Mr. Pratt's , near Plymouth . 
Elinor looked as if she wished to hear more . 
Mrs. Dashwood could think of no other question , and Thomas and the tablecloth , now alike needless , were soon afterwards dismissed . 
Marianne had already sent to say , that she should eat nothing more . 
When the dessert and the wine were arranged , and Mrs. Dashwood and Elinor were left by themselves , they remained long together in a similarity of thoughtfulness and silence . 
Mrs. Dashwood feared to hazard any remark , and ventured not to offer consolation . 
CHAPTER Elinor now found the difference between the expectation of an unpleasant event , however certain the mind may be told to consider it , and certainty itself . 
But he was now married and she condemned her heart for the lurking flattery , which so much heightened the pain of the intelligence . 
he could be in orders , and consequently before he could be in possession of the living , surprised her a little at first . 
But she soon saw how likely it was that Lucy , in her self provident care , in her haste to secure him , should overlook every thing but the risk of delay . 
They were married , married in town , and now hastening down to her uncle's . 
Delaford , that place in which so much conspired to give her an interest which she wished to be acquainted with , and yet desired to avoid . 
In Edward she knew not what she saw , nor what she wished to see happy or unhappy , nothing pleased her she turned away her head from every sketch of him . 
Though uncertain that any one were to blame , she found fault with every absent friend . 
They were all thoughtless or indolent . 
When do you write to Colonel Brandon , ma'am ? was an inquiry which sprung from the impatience of her mind to have something going on . 
I wrote to him , my love , last week , and rather expect to see , than to hear from him again . 
I earnestly pressed his coming to us , and should not be surprised to see him walk in today or tomorrow , or any day . 
This was gaining something , something to look forward to . 
Colonel Brandon must have some information to give . 
Scarcely had she so determined it , when the figure of a man on horseback drew her eyes to the window . 
He stopt at their gate . 
It was a gentleman , it was Colonel Brandon himself . 
Now she could hear more and she trembled in expectation of it . 
But it was NOT Colonel Brandon neither his air nor his height . 
Were it possible , she must say it must be Edward . 
He had just dismounted she could not be mistaken , it WAS Edward . 
She moved away and sat down . 
He comes from Mr. Pratt's purposely to see us . 
I WILL be calm I WILL be mistress of myself . 
In a moment she perceived that the others were likewise aware of the mistake . 
She saw her mother and Marianne change colour saw them look at herself , and whisper a few sentences to each other . 
Not a syllable passed aloud . 
They all waited in silence for the appearance of their visitor . 
His footsteps were heard along the gravel path in a moment he was in the passage , and in another he was before them . 
His countenance , as he entered the room , was not too happy , even for Elinor . 
His complexion was white with agitation , and he looked as if fearful of his reception , and conscious that he merited no kind one . 
He coloured , and stammered out an unintelligible reply . 
Elinor's lips had moved with her mother's , and , when the moment of action was over , she wished that she had shaken hands with him too . 
But it was then too late , and with a countenance meaning to be open , she sat down again and talked of the weather . 
When Elinor had ceased to rejoice in the dryness of the season , a very awful pause took place . 
It was put an end to by Mrs. Dashwood , who felt obliged to hope that he had left Mrs. Ferrars very well . 
In a hurried manner , he replied in the affirmative . 
No , my mother is in town . 
I meant , said Elinor , taking up some work from the table , to inquire for Mrs. EDWARD Ferrars . 
She dared not look up but her mother and Marianne both turned their eyes on him . 
He coloured , seemed perplexed , looked doubtingly , and , after some hesitation , said , Perhaps you mean my brother you mean Mrs. Mrs. ROBERT Ferrars . 
Yes , said he , they were married last week , and are now at Dawlish . 
Elinor could sit it no longer . 
She almost ran out of the room , and as soon as the door was closed , burst into tears of joy , which at first she thought would never cease . 
His errand at Barton , in fact , was a simple one . 
His situation indeed was more than commonly joyful . 
He had more than the ordinary triumph of accepted love to swell his heart , and raise his spirits . 
His heart was now open to Elinor , all its weaknesses , all its errors confessed , and his first boyish attachment to Lucy treated with all the philosophic dignity of twenty four . 
It was a foolish , idle inclination on my side , said he , the consequence of ignorance of the world and want of employment . 
She was pretty too at least I thought so THEN and I had seen so little of other women , that I could make no comparisons , and see no defects . 
The change which a few hours had wrought in the minds and the happiness of the Dashwoods , was such so great as promised them all , the satisfaction of a sleepless night . 
Marianne could speak HER happiness only by tears . 
Comparisons would occur regrets would arise and her joy , though sincere as her love for her sister , was of a kind to give her neither spirits nor language . 
Between THEM no subject is finished , no communication is even made , till it has been made at least twenty times over . 
To her own heart it was a delightful affair , to her imagination it was even a ridiculous one , but to her reason , her judgment , it was completely a puzzle . 
Elinor remembered what Robert had told her in Harley Street , of his opinion of what his own mediation in his brother's affairs might have done , if applied to in time . 
She repeated it to Edward . 
THAT was exactly like Robert , was his immediate observation . 
And THAT , he presently added , might perhaps be in HIS head when the acquaintance between them first began . 
And Lucy perhaps at first might think only of procuring his good offices in my favour . 
Other designs might afterward arise . 
He put the letter into Elinor's hands . 
Sincerely wish you happy in your choice , and it shall not be my fault if we are not always good friends , as our near relationship now makes proper . 
I can safely say I owe you no ill will , and am sure you will be too generous to do us any ill offices . 
I have burnt all your letters , and will return your picture the first opportunity . 
Please to destroy my scrawls but the ring with my hair you are very welcome to keep . 
Elinor read and returned it without any comment . 
I will not ask your opinion of it as a composition , said Edward . 
For worlds would not I have had a letter of hers seen by YOU in former days . 
However it may have come about , said Elinor , after a pause , they are certainly married . 
And your mother has brought on herself a most appropriate punishment . 
She will hardly be less hurt , I suppose , by Robert's marrying Lucy , than she would have been by your marrying her . 
She will be more hurt by it , for Robert always was her favourite . 
She will be more hurt by it , and on the same principle will forgive him much sooner . 
In what state the affair stood at present between them , Edward knew not , for no communication with any of his family had yet been attempted by him . 
It was his business , however , to say that he DID , and he said it very prettily . 
What he might say on the subject a twelvemonth after , must be referred to the imagination of husbands and wives . 
She could not foresee that Colonel Brandon would give me a living . 
No but she might suppose that something would occur in your favour that your own family might in time relent . 
And at any rate , she lost nothing by continuing the engagement , for she has proved that it fettered neither her inclination nor her actions . 
Edward was , of course , immediately convinced that nothing could have been more natural than Lucy's conduct , nor more self evident than the motive of it . 
He could only plead an ignorance of his own heart , and a mistaken confidence in the force of his engagement . 
Elinor smiled , and shook her head . 
NOW he felt astonished himself that he had never yet been to the place . 
One question after this only remained undecided , between them , one difficulty only was to be overcome . 
Edward was not entirely without hopes of some favourable change in his mother towards him and on THAT he rested for the residue of their income . 
Among such friends , however , and such flattery , he did revive . 
No rumour of Lucy's marriage had yet reached him he knew nothing of what had passed and the first hours of his visit were consequently spent in hearing and in wondering . 
It would be needless to say , that the gentlemen advanced in the good opinion of each other , as they advanced in each other's acquaintance , for it could not be otherwise . 
The letters from town , which a few days before would have made every nerve in Elinor's body thrill with transport , now arrived to be read with less emotion that mirth . 
I do think , she continued , nothing was ever carried on so sly for it was but two days before Lucy called and sat a couple of hours with me . 
And I must say that Lucy's crossness not to take them along with them in the chaise is worse than all . 
Poor Mr. Edward ! I cannot get him out of my head , but you must send for him to Barton , and Miss Marianne must try to comfort him . 
Mr. Dashwood's strains were more solemn . 
Mrs. Ferrars was the most unfortunate of women poor Fanny had suffered agonies of sensibility and he considered the existence of each , under such a blow , with grateful wonder . 
Robert's offence was unpardonable , but Lucy's was infinitely worse . 
This paragraph was of some importance to the prospects and conduct of Edward . 
It determined him to attempt a reconciliation , though not exactly in the manner pointed out by their brother and sister . 
I am grown very happy but that would not interest . 
I know of no submission that IS proper for me to make . 
He agreed that he might . 
And when she has forgiven you , perhaps a little humility may be convenient while acknowledging a second engagement , almost as imprudent in HER eyes as the first . 
After a visit on Colonel Brandon's side of only three or four days , the two gentlemen quitted Barton together . 
Her family had of late been exceedingly fluctuating . 
With apprehensive caution therefore it was revealed , and he was listened to with unexpected calmness . 
They had in fact nothing to wish for , but the marriage of Colonel Brandon and Marianne , and rather better pasturage for their cows . 
They were visited on their first settling by almost all their relations and friends . 
Mrs. Ferrars came to inspect the happiness which she was almost ashamed of having authorised and even the Dashwoods were at the expense of a journey from Sussex to do them honour . 
But , I confess , it would give me great pleasure to call Colonel Brandon brother . 
But though Mrs. Ferrars DID come to see them , and always treated them with the make believe of decent affection , they were never insulted by her real favour and preference . 
THAT was due to the folly of Robert , and the cunning of his wife and it was earned by them before many months had passed away . 
When Robert first sought her acquaintance , and privately visited her in Bartlett's Buildings , it was only with the view imputed to him by his brother . 
Some doubts always lingered in her mind when they parted , which could only be removed by another half hour's discourse with himself . 
His attendance was by this means secured , and the rest followed in course . 
He was proud of his conquest , proud of tricking Edward , and very proud of marrying privately without his mother's consent . 
What immediately followed is known . 
It was now her darling object . 
They each felt his sorrows , and their own obligations , and Marianne , by general consent , was to be the reward of all . 
She was born to discover the falsehood of her own opinions , and to counteract , by her conduct , her most favourite maxims . 
Marianne could never love by halves and her whole heart became , in time , as much devoted to her husband , as it had once been to Willoughby . 
He lived to exert , and frequently to enjoy himself . 
