Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
THE BEGINNING AT OLD LEXINGTON III . 
STORY OF THE FIFTY SEVEN CENTS IV . 
HIS POWER AS ORATOR AND PREACHER V. GIFT FOR INSPIRING OTHERS VI . 
HOW A UNIVERSITY WAS FOUNDED VIII . 
A man dies , but his good work lives . 
His ideas , ideals , and enthusiasms have inspired tens of thousands of lives . 
A book full of the energetics of a master workman is just what every young man cares for . 
signature ACRES OF DIAMONDS Friends . 
Acres of Diamonds'' the idea has continuously been precisely the same . 
ACRES OF DIAMONDS This is the most recent and complete form of the lecture . 
It happened to be delivered in Philadelphia , Dr . 
Many of them I have forgotten , and I am glad I have , but there is one I shall never forget . 
I have never been irritated with that guide when he lost his temper as I ceased listening . 
But I remember that he took off his Turkish cap and swung it in a circle to get my attention . 
I could see it through the corner of my eye , but I determined not to look straight at him for fear he would tell another story . 
But although I am not a woman , I did finally look , and as soon as I did he went right into another story . 
Said he , I will tell you a story now which I reserve for my particular friends . 
'' When he emphasized the words particular friends , '' I listened , and I have ever been glad I did . 
I really feel devoutly thankful , that there are , young men who have been carried through college by this lecture who are also glad that I did listen . 
The old guide told me that there once lived not far from the River Indus an ancient Persian by the name of Ali Hafed . 
He was contented because he was wealthy , and wealthy because he was contented . 
One day there visited that old Persian farmer one of these ancient Buddhist priests , one of the wise men of the East . 
He sat down by the fire and told the old farmer how this world of ours was made . 
Then the internal fires bursting outward through the crust threw up the mountains and hills , the valleys , the plains and prairies of this wonderful world of ours . 
Said the old priest , A diamond is a congealed drop of sunlight . 
'' Now that is literally scientifically true , that a diamond is an actual deposit of carbon from the sun . 
Ali Hafed heard all about diamonds , how much they were worth , and went to his bed that night a poor man . 
He had not lost anything , but he was poor because he was discontented , and discontented because he feared he was poor . 
He said , I want a mine of diamonds , '' and he lay awake all night . 
Early in the morning he sought out the priest . 
'' Well , then , go along and find them . 
That is all you have to do go and find them , and then you have them . 
'' But I don't know where to go . 
'' Well , if you will find a river that runs through white sands , between high mountains , in those white sands you will always find diamonds . 
'' I don't believe there is any such river . 
'' Oh yes , there are plenty of them . 
All you have to do is to go and find them , and then you have them . 
'' Said Ali Hafed , I will go . 
'' So he sold his farm , collected his money , left his family in charge of a neighbor , and away he went in search of diamonds . 
He began his search , very properly to my mind , at the Mountains of the Moon . 
I had but one chapter of that story , and the hero was dead . 
He pulled out a black stone having an eye of light reflecting all the hues of the rainbow . 
He took the pebble into the house and put it on the mantel which covers the central fires , and forgot all about it . 
That is nothing but a stone we found right out here in our own garden . 
'' But , '' said the priest , I tell you I know a diamond when I see it . 
I know positively that is a diamond . 
The Kohinoor , and the Orloff of the crown jewels of England and Russia , the largest on earth , came from that mine . 
Those Arab guides have morals to their stories , although they are not always moral . 
For every acre of that old farm , yes , every shovelful , afterward revealed gems which since have decorated the crowns of monarchs . 
'' When he had added the moral to his story I saw why he reserved it for his particular friends . 
'' But I did not tell him I could see it . 
I told him of a man out in California in who owned a ranch . 
The man who had owned that ranch wanted gold , and he could have secured it for the mere taking . 
Indeed , thirty eight millions of dollars has been taken out of a very few acres since then . 
You and I would enjoy an income like that if we didn't have to pay an income tax . 
But a better illustration really than that occurred here in our own Pennsylvania . 
But before he sold it he decided to secure employment collecting coal oil for his cousin , who was in the business in Canada , where they first discovered oil on this continent . 
They dipped it from the running streams at that early time . 
So this Pennsylvania farmer wrote to his cousin asking for employment . 
You see , friends , this farmer was not altogether a foolish man . 
No , he was not . 
He did not leave his farm until he had something else to do . 
Of all the simpletons the stars shine on I don't know of a worse one than the man who leaves one job before he has gotten another . 
That has especial reference to my profession , and has no reference whatever to a man seeking a divorce . 
When he wrote to his cousin for employment , his cousin replied , I cannot engage you because you know nothing about the oil business . 
he set himself at the study of the whole subject . 
He began away back at the second day of God's creation when this world was covered thick and deep with that rich vegetation which since has turned to the primitive beds of coal . 
He studied until he knew what it looked like , smelled like , tasted like , and how to refine it . 
Now said he in his letter to his cousin , I understand the oil business . 
'' His cousin answered , All right , come on . 
'' So he sold his farm , according to the county record , for . 
He had scarcely gone from that place before the man who purchased the spot went out to arrange for the watering of the cattle . 
He found the previous owner had gone out years before and put a plank across the brook back of the barn , edgewise into the surface of the water just a few inches . 
The purpose of that plank at that sharp angle across the brook was to throw over to the other bank a dreadful looking scum through which the cattle would not put their noses . 
He studied it until he knew all about it , and yet he is said to have sold the whole of it for , and again I say , no sense . 
'' But I need another illustration . 
I found it in Massachusetts , and I am sorry I did because that is the state I came from . 
This young man in Massachusetts furnishes just another phase of my thought . 
During his senior year he earned a week for doing that work . 
When he graduated they raised his pay from to a week , and offered him a professorship , and as soon as they did he went right home to his mother . 
If they had raised that boy's pay from to . 
he would have stayed and been proud of the place , but when they put it up to at one leap , he said , Mother , I won't work for a week . 
The idea of a man with a brain like mine working for a week ! Let's go out in California and stake out gold mines and silver mines , and be immensely rich . 
'' Said his mother , Now , Charlie , it is just as well to be happy as it is to be rich . 
'' Yes , '' said Charlie , but it is just as well to be rich and happy , too . 
'' And they were both right about it . 
As he was an only son and she a widow , of course he had his way . 
I don't believe he ever discovered a mine , and if I am looking in the face of any stockholder of that copper company you wish he had discovered something or other . 
I have friends who are not here because they could not afford a ticket , who did have stock in that company at the time this young man was employed there . 
This young man went out there , and I have not heard a word from him . 
I don't know what became of him , and I don't know whether he found any mines or not , but I don't believe he ever did . 
But I do know the other end of the line . 
He had scarcely gotten out of the old homestead before the succeeding owner went out to dig potatoes . 
You know in Massachusetts our farms are nearly all stone wall . 
There you are obliged to be very economical of front gateways in order to have some place to put the stone . 
'' But he would not take it . 
My friends , that mistake is very universally made , and why should we even smile at him . 
I often wonder what has become of him . 
I do not know at all , but I will tell you what I guess'' as a Yankee . 
'' Do you know that man Jones that lives in Philadelphia ? '' Yes , I have heard of him , too . 
As I come here to night and look around this audience I am seeing again what through these fifty years I have continually seen men that are making precisely that same mistake . 
I say to you that you have acres of diamonds'' in Philadelphia right where you now live . 
Oh , '' but you will say , you cannot know much about your city if you think there are any acres of diamonds' here . 
'' I was greatly interested in that account in the newspaper of the young man who found that diamond in North Carolina . 
It was one of the purest diamonds that has ever been discovered , and it has several predecessors near the same locality . 
I went to a distinguished professor in mineralogy and asked him where he thought those diamonds came from . 
The professor secured the map of the geologic formations of our continent , and traced it . 
It is a fact that the diamonds were there , for they have been discovered and sold and that they were carried down there during the drift period , from some northern locality . 
All you would care for would be the few you would wear if you wish to be modest , and the rest you would sell for money . 
I have not come to this platform even under these circumstances to recite something to you . 
I say that you ought to get rich , and it is your duty to get rich . 
'' They say , Isn't that awful ! Why don't you preach the gospel instead of preaching about man's making money ? '' Because to make money honestly is to preach the gospel . 
'' That is the reason . 
The men who get rich may be the most honest men you find in the community . 
My friend , that is the reason why you have none , because you have that idea of people . 
The foundation of your faith is altogether false . 
That is why they are rich . 
That is why they are trusted with money . 
That is why they carry on great enterprises and find plenty of people to work with them . 
It is because they are honest men . 
Says another young man , I hear sometimes of men that get millions of dollars dishonestly . 
For a man to have money , even in large sums , is not an inconsistent thing . 
Oh , the inconsistency of such doctrines as that ! Money is power , and you ought to be reasonably ambitious to have it . 
You ought because you can do more good with it than you could without it . 
I am always willing that my church should raise my salary , because the church that pays the largest salary always raises it the easiest . 
You never knew an exception to it in your life . 
The man who gets the largest salary can do the most good with the power that is furnished to him . 
Of course he can if his spirit be right to use it for what it is given to him . 
I say , then , you ought to have money . 
If you can honestly attain unto riches in Philadelphia , it is your Christian and godly duty to do so . 
It is an awful mistake of these pious people to think you must be awfully poor in order to be pious . 
Some men say , Don't you sympathize with the poor people ? '' Of course I do , or else I would not have been lecturing these years . 
I won't give in but what I sympathize with the poor , but the number of poor who are to be sympathized with is very small . 
It is all wrong to be poor , anyhow . 
Let us give in to that argument and pass that to one side . 
Of course there are some things higher than money . 
Oh yes , I know by the grave that has left me standing alone that there are some things in this world that are higher and sweeter and purer than money . 
Well do I know there are some things higher and grander than gold . 
Love is the grandest thing on God's earth , but fortunate the lover who has plenty of money . 
Money is power , money is force , money will do good as well as harm . 
In the hands of good men and women it could accomplish , and it has accomplished , good . 
I hate to leave that behind me . 
I heard a man get up in a prayer meeting in our city and thank the Lord he was one of God's poor . 
'' Well , I wonder what his wife thinks about that ? She earns all the money that comes into that house , and he smokes a part of that on the veranda . 
I don't want to see any more of the Lord's poor of that kind , and I don't believe the Lord does . 
And yet there are some people who think in order to be pious you must be awfully poor and awfully dirty . 
That does not follow at all . 
While we sympathize with the poor , let us not teach a doctrine like that . 
You spoke about man's ambition to have money helping to make him a good man . 
Sir , I have come to tell you the Holy Bible says that money is the root of all evil . 
'' I told him I had never seen it in the Bible , and advised him to go out into the chapel and get the Bible , and show me the place . 
He flung the Bible down on my desk , and fairly squealed into my ear There it is , Mr. President you can read it for yourself . 
'' I said to him Well , young man , you will learn when you get a little older that you cannot trust another denomination to read the Bible for you . 
You belong to another denomination . 
You are taught in the theological school , however , that emphasis is exegesis . 
'' Then he had it right , and when one does quote aright from that same old Book he quotes the absolute truth . 
So I say that when he quoted right , of course he quoted the absolute truth . 
The love of money is the root of all evil . 
'' He who tries to attain unto it too quickly , or dishonestly , will fall into many snares , no doubt about that . 
What is that ? It is making an idol of money , and idolatry pure and simple everywhere is condemned by the Holy Scriptures and by man's common sense . 
'' Yes , it is I have tried it . 
'' What business are you in ? '' I kept a store here for twenty years , and never made over a thousand dollars in the whole twenty years . 
A man has no right to keep a store in Philadelphia twenty years and not make at least five hundred thousand dollars even though it be a corner grocery up town . 
You say , You cannot make five thousand dollars in a store now . 
There is wealth right within the sound of your voice . 
Some one says You don't know anything about business . 
A preacher never knows a thing about business . 
'' Well , then , I will have to prove that I am an expert . 
I don't like to do this , but I have to do it because my testimony will not be taken if I am not an expert . 
What did I care about that man , anyhow ? Then another farmer would come in and say , Do you keep jack knives ? '' No , we don't keep jack knives . 
'' Then I went away and whistled another tune . 
He will fail within a very few years . 
He certainly will if he doesn't carry his religion into business . 
If I had been carrying on my father's store on a Christian plan , godly plan , I would have had a jack knife for the third man when he called for it . 
Then I would have actually done him a kindness , and I would have received a reward myself , which it would have been my duty to take . 
There are some over pious Christian people who think if you take any profit on anything you sell that you are an unrighteous man . 
On the contrary , you would be a criminal to sell goods for less than they cost . 
You have no right to do that . 
You cannot trust a man with your money who cannot take care of his own . 
You cannot trust a man in your family that is not true to his own wife . 
You cannot trust a man in the world that does not begin with his own heart , his own character , and his own life . 
It would have been my duty to have furnished a jack knife to the third man , or the second , and to have sold it to him and actually profited myself . 
I have no more right to sell goods without making a profit on them than I have to overcharge him dishonestly beyond what they are worth . 
But I should so sell each bill of goods that the person to whom I sell shall make as much as I make . 
To live and let live is the principle of the gospel , and the principle of every day common sense . 
Oh , young man , hear me live as you go along . 
Do not wait until you have reached my years before you begin to enjoy anything of this life . 
Oh , yes , I am paid over and over a hundredfold to night for dividing as I have tried to do in some measure as I went along through the years . 
I ought not speak that way , it sounds egotistic , but I am old enough now to be excused for that . 
I should have helped my fellow men , which I have tried to do , and every one should try to do , and get the happiness of it . 
He arises tired in the morning , and goes with an unclean conscience to his work the next day . 
He is not a successful man at all , although he may have laid up millions . 
The history of the thousands of millionaires shows that to be the case . 
The man over there who said he could not make anything in a store in Philadelphia has been carrying on his store on the wrong principle . 
He deals here at the corner store . 
'' Where did he come from ? '' I don't know . 
'' How many does he have in his family ? '' I don't know . 
'' What ticket does he vote ? '' I don't know . 
'' What church does he go to ? '' I don't know , and don't care . 
You don't know where your neighbor came from when he moved to Philadelphia , and you don't care . 
If you had cared you would be a rich man now . 
If you had cared enough about him to take an interest in his affairs , to find out what he needed , you would have been rich . 
But you go through the world saying , No opportunity to get rich , '' and there is the fault right at your own door . 
But another young man gets up over there and says , I cannot take up the mercantile business . 
Why can't you go into the mercantile business ? '' Because I haven't any capital . 
'' Young man , do you think you are going to get rich on capital ? '' Certainly . 
'' Well , I say , Certainly not . 
'' If your mother has plenty of money , and she will set you up in business , you will set her up in business , '' supplying you with capital . 
The moment a young man or woman gets more money than he or she has grown to by practical experience , that moment he has gotten a curse . 
It is no help to a young man or woman to inherit money . 
It would be worse for them , worse for the nation , that they should have any money at all . 
Oh , young man , if you have inherited money , don't regard it as a help . 
It will curse you through your years , and deprive you of the very best things of human life . 
There is no class of people to be pitied so much as the inexperienced sons and daughters of the rich of our generation . 
I pity the rich man's son . 
He can never know the best things in life . 
Then with that same love comes also that divine inspiration toward better things , and he begins to save his money . 
He begins to leave off his bad habits and put money in the bank . 
When he has a few hundred dollars he goes out in the suburbs to look for a home . 
It is all mine , and I divide with thee . 
'' That is the grandest moment a human heart may ever know . 
But a rich man's son can never know that . 
I pity the rich man's son . 
The statistics of Massachusetts showed that not one rich man's son out of seventeen ever dies rich . 
I pity the rich man's sons unless they have the good sense of the elder Vanderbilt , which sometimes happens . 
He went to his father and said , Did you earn all your money ? '' I did , my son . 
I began to work on a ferry boat for twenty five cents a day . 
'' Then , '' said his son , I will have none of your money , '' and he , too , tried to get employment on a ferry boat that Saturday night . 
He could not get one there , but he did get a place for three dollars a week . 
Of course , if a rich man's son will do that , he will get the discipline of a poor boy that is worth more than a university education to any man . 
He would then be able to take care of the millions of his father . 
But as a rule the rich men will not let their sons do the very thing that made them great . 
I have no pity for such rich men's sons . 
I remember one at Niagara Falls . 
I think I remember one a great deal nearer . 
I think there are gentlemen present who were at a great banquet , and I beg pardon of his friends . 
At a banquet here in Philadelphia there sat beside me a kind hearted young man , and he said , Mr. Conwell , you have been sick for two or three years . 
When you go out , take my limousine , and it will take you up to your house on Broad Street . 
'' I thanked him very much , and perhaps I ought not to mention the incident in this way , but I follow the facts . 
'' Well , '' I said , does the owner of this machine ever drive it himself ? '' At that the chauffeur laughed so heartily that he lost control of his machine . 
He was so surprised at the question that he ran up on the sidewalk , and around a corner lamp post out into the street again . 
And when he got out into the street he laughed till the whole machine trembled . 
He said He drive this machine ! Oh , he would be lucky if he knew enough to get out when we get there . 
'' I must tell you about a rich man's son at Niagara Falls . 
I came in from the lecture to the hotel , and as I approached the desk of the clerk there stood a millionaire's son from New York . 
He was an indescribable specimen of anthropologic potency . 
It is a very difficult thing to describe that young man . 
This human cricket came up to the clerk's desk just as I entered , adjusted his unseeing eye glass , and spake in this wise to the clerk . 
You see , he thought it was Hinglish , you know , '' to lisp . 
You should have seen that young man when those envelopes came across that counter . 
He swelled up like a gobbler turkey , adjusted his unseeing eye glass , and yelled Come right back here . 
Now thir , will you order a thervant to take that papah and enwelophs to yondah dethk . 
'' Oh , the poor , miserable , contemptible American monkey ! He could not carry paper and envelopes twenty feet . 
I suppose he could not get his arms down to do it . 
I have no pity for such travesties upon human nature . 
If you have not capital , young man , I am glad of it . 
What you need is common sense , not copper cents . 
The best thing I can do is to illustrate by actual facts well known to you all . 
A. T. Stewart , a poor boy in New York , had . 
He lost cents of that on the very first venture . 
How fortunate that young man who loses the first time he gambles . 
That boy said , I will never gamble again in business , '' and he never did . 
Said the boy , I will not lose any more money in that way . 
'' Then he went around first to the doors and asked the people what they did want . 
Then when he had found out what they wanted he invested his cents to supply a known demand . 
Study it wherever you choose in business , in your profession , in your housekeeping , whatever your life , that one thing is the secret of success . 
You must first know the demand . 
You must first know what people need , and then invest yourself where you are most needed . 
His fortune was made by his losing something , which taught him the great lesson that he must only invest himself or his money in something that people need . 
It is a great principle as broad as humanity and as deep as the Scripture itself . 
The best illustration I ever heard was of John Jacob Astor . 
You know that he made the money of the Astor family when he lived in New York . 
He came across the sea in debt for his fare . 
But that poor boy with nothing in his pocket made the fortune of the Astor family on one principle . 
, wherein is given his statistical account of the records taken in of millionaires of New York . 
If you read the account you will see that out of the millionaires only seven made their money in New York . 
Out of the millionaires worth ten million dollars in real estate then , of them made their money in towns of less than , inhabitants . 
The richest man in this country to day , if you read the real estate values , has never moved away from a town of , inhabitants . 
It makes not so much difference where you are as who you are . 
But if you cannot get rich in Philadelphia you certainly cannot do it in New York . 
Now John Jacob Astor illustrated what can be done anywhere . 
He had a mortgage once on a millinery store , and they could not sell bonnets enough to pay the interest on his money . 
So he foreclosed that mortgage , took possession of the store , and went into partnership with the very same people , in the same store , with the same capital . 
He did not give them a dollar of capital . 
They had to sell goods to get any money . 
Then he left them alone in the store just as they had been before , and he went out and sat down on a bench in the park in the shade . 
I sometimes try to describe a bonnet , but not always . 
I would not try to describe a modern bonnet . 
Don't make up any more until I come back . 
'' Then he went out and sat down again , and another lady passed him of a different form , of different complexion , with a different shape and color of bonnet . 
Now , '' said he , put such a bonnet as that in the show window . 
He did not have a hat or a bonnet in that show window but what some lady liked before it was made up . 
'' Young man , the history of the breaking up of the trusts by that attack upon big business'' is only illustrating what is now the opportunity of the smaller man . 
The time never came in the history of the world when you could get rich so quickly manufacturing without capital as you can now . 
But you will say , You cannot do anything of the kind . 
You cannot start without capital . 
'' Young man , let me illustrate for a moment . 
It is my duty to every young man and woman , because we are all going into business very soon on the same plan . 
Young man , remember if you know what people need you have gotten more knowledge of a fortune than any amount of capital can give you . 
There was a poor man out of work living in Hingham , Massachusetts . 
He lounged around the house until one day his wife told him to get out and work , and , as he lived in Massachusetts , he obeyed his wife . 
He went out and sat down on the shore of the bay , and whittled a soaked shingle into a wooden chain . 
His children that evening quarreled over it , and he whittled a second one to keep peace . 
While he was whittling the second one a neighbor came in and said Why don't you whittle toys and sell them ? You could make money at that . 
'' Oh , '' he said , I would not know what to make . 
'' Why don't you ask your own children right here in your own house what to make ? '' What is the use of trying that ? '' said the carpenter . 
My children are different from other people's children . 
That man began to make those toys for his own children , and then made copies and sold them through the boot and shoe store next door . 
It is the royal road to success in manufacturing . 
Oh , '' but you say , didn't he have any capital ? '' Yes , a penknife , but I don't know that he had paid for that . 
She threw it out and said , I am going to get up something better than that to put on collars . 
'' Her husband said After what Conwell said to night , you see there is a need of an improved collar fastener that is easier to handle . 
There is a human need there is a great fortune . 
Now , then , get up a collar button and get rich . 
It was that New England woman who invented the snap button which you can find anywhere now . 
It was first a collar button with a spring cap attached to the outer side . 
Any of you who wear modern waterproofs know the button that simply pushes together , and when you unbutton it you simply pull it apart . 
That is the button to which I refer , and which she invented . 
She afterward invented several other buttons , and then invested in more , and then was taken into partnership with great factories . 
You are looking right over it'' and she had to look over it because it was right under her chin . 
I have read in the newspaper that a woman never invented anything . 
Well , that newspaper ought to begin again . 
Of course , I do not refer to gossip I refer to machines and if I did I might better include the men . 
That newspaper could never appear if women had not invented something . 
When you say a woman doesn't invent anything , I ask , Who invented the Jacquard loom that wove every stitch you wear ? Mrs. Jacquard . 
The printer's roller , the printing press , were invented by farmers' wives . 
Who was it that invented the sewing machine ? If I would go to school to morrow and ask your children they would say , Elias Howe . 
'' He was in the Civil War with me , and often in my tent , and I often heard him say that he worked fourteen years to get up that sewing machine . 
Of course he took out the patent in his name . 
If you look at a mowing machine , you will see it is nothing but a lot of shears . 
Who are the great inventors of the world ? Again this lesson comes before us . 
The great inventor sits next to you , or you are the person yourself . 
Oh , '' but you will say , I have never invented anything in my life . 
'' Neither did the great inventors until they discovered one great secret . 
Do you think it is a man with a head like a bushel measure or a man like a stroke of lightning ? It is neither . 
The really great man is a plain , straightforward , every day , common sense man . 
You would not dream that he was a great inventor if you did not see something he had actually done . 
His neighbors do not regard him so great . 
You never see anything great over your back fence . 
You say there is no greatness among your neighbors . 
It is all away off somewhere else . 
Their greatness is ever so simple , so plain , so earnest , so practical , that the neighbors and friends never recognize it . 
True greatness is often unrecognized . 
You do not know anything about the greatest men and women . 
If you know a great man in Philadelphia and you should meet him to morrow , you would say , How are you , Sam ? '' or Good morning , Jim . 
'' Of course you would . 
That is just what you would do . 
I went into the waiting room and sat down with a lot of others on the benches , and the secretary asked one after another to tell him what they wanted . 
After the secretary had been through the line , he went in , and then came back to the door and motioned for me . 
I went up to that anteroom , and the secretary said That is the President's door right over there . 
Just rap on it and go right in . 
'' I never was so taken aback , friends , in all my life , never . 
The secretary himself made it worse for me , because he had told me how to go in and then went out another door to the left and shut that . 
There I was , in the hallway by myself before the President of the United States of America's door . 
I had been on fields of battle , where the shells did sometimes shriek and the bullets did sometimes hit me , but I always wanted to run . 
I have no sympathy with the old man who says , I would just as soon march up to the cannon's mouth as eat my dinner . 
'' I have no faith in a man who doesn't know enough to be afraid when he is being shot at . 
He was one of the world's greatest men , and was made great by one single rule . 
Oh , that all the young people of Philadelphia were before me now and I could say just this one thing , and that they would remember it . 
I would give a lifetime for the effect it would have on our city and on civilization . 
Abraham Lincoln's principle for greatness can be adopted by nearly all . 
This was his rule Whatsoever he had to do at all , he put his whole mind into it and held it all there until that was all done . 
That makes men great almost anywhere . 
He stuck to those papers at that table and did not look up at me , and I sat there trembling . 
Finally , when he had put the string around his papers , he pushed them over to one side and looked over to me , and a smile came over his worn face . 
He said I am a very busy man and have only a few minutes to spare . 
Now tell me in the fewest words what it is you want . 
'' I began to tell him , and mentioned the case , and he said I have heard all about it and you do not need to say any more . 
Mr. Stanton was talking to me only a few days ago about that . 
You can go to the hotel and rest assured that the President never did sign an order to shoot a boy under twenty years of age , and never will . 
You can say that to his mother anyhow . 
'' Then he said to me , How is it going in the field ? '' I said , We sometimes get discouraged . 
'' And he said It is all right . 
We are going to win out now . 
We are getting very near the light . 
No man ought to wish to be President of the United States , and I will be glad when I get through then Tad and I are going out to Springfield , Illinois . 
I have bought a farm out there and I don't care if I again earn only twenty five cents a day . 
Tad has a mule team , and we are going to plant onions . 
'' Then he asked me , Were you brought up on a farm ? '' I said , Yes in the Berkshire Hills of Massachusetts . 
'' He was so familiar , so everyday , so farmer like , that I felt right at home with him at once . 
He then took hold of another roll of paper , and looked up at me and said , Good morning . 
'' I took the hint then and got up and went out . 
After I had gotten out I could not realize I had seen the President of the United States at all . 
Yet he was only Old Abe'' to his neighbors . 
When they had the second funeral , I was invited among others , and went out to see that same coffin put back in the tomb at Springfield . 
Around the tomb stood Lincoln's old neighbors , to whom he was just Old Abe . 
'' Of course that is all they would say . 
There is no greatness there . 
Who are the great men and women ? My attention was called the other day to the history of a very little thing that made the fortune of a very poor man . 
A poor man in Massachusetts who had worked in the nail works was injured at thirty eight , and he could earn but little money . 
He was employed in the office to rub out the marks on the bills made by pencil memorandums , and he used a rubber until his hand grew tired . 
He then tied a piece of rubber on the end of a stick and worked it like a plane . 
'' He went to Boston and applied for his patent , and every one of you that has a rubber tipped pencil in your pocket is now paying tribute to the millionaire . 
No capital , not a penny did he invest in it . 
All was income , all the way up into the millions . 
But let me hasten to one other greater thought . 
Show me the great men and women who live in Philadelphia . 
'' A gentleman over there will get up and say We don't have any great men in Philadelphia . 
They live away off in Rome or St . 
Petersburg or London or Manayunk , or anywhere else but here in our town . 
'' I have come now to the apex of my thought . 
If there ever was a community on earth that has to be forced ahead , it is the city of Philadelphia . 
That is the only great wrong that I can lay at the feet of the magnificent Philadelphia that has been so universally kind to me . 
Louis , and San Francisco do . 
There was never an opportunity greater . 
Let us talk up our own city . 
But there are two other young men here to night , and that is all I will venture to say , because it is too late . 
One over there gets up and says , There is going to be a great man in Philadelphia , but never was one . 
'' Oh , is that so ? When are you going to be great ? '' When I am elected to some political office . 
The Bible says , He that is sent cannot be greater than Him who sent Him . 
'' The people rule , or should rule , and if they do , we do not need the greater men in office . 
If the great men in America took our offices , we would change to an empire in the next ten years . 
I know of a great many young women , now that woman's suffrage is coming , who say , I am going to be President of the United States some day . 
'' I believe in woman's suffrage , and there is no doubt but what it is coming , and I am getting out of the way , anyhow . 
Unless you can control more than one vote , you will be unknown , and your influence so dissipated as practically not to be felt . 
This country is not run by votes . 
Do you think it is ? It is governed by influence . 
It is governed by the ambitions and the enterprises which control votes . 
The young woman that thinks she is going to vote for the sake of holding an office is making an awful blunder . 
That other young man gets up and says , There are going to be great men in this country and in Philadelphia . 
I will come home with stars on my shoulder , and hold every office in the gift of the nation , and I will be great . 
'' No , you won't . 
It will only be a burlesque in that shape . 
We had a Peace Jubilee here after the Spanish War . 
Out West they don't believe this , because they said , Philadelphia would not have heard of any Spanish War until fifty years hence . 
'' Some of you saw the procession go up Broad Street . 
You have gathered in this house your most intelligent people , and yet , perhaps , not one here can name the other seven men . 
We ought not to so teach history . 
But we do not so teach . 
We are now teaching everywhere that the generals do all the fighting . 
The general told me about his servant , Rastus , '' who was an enlisted colored soldier . 
'' I remember another illustration . 
I shut my eyes shut them close and lo ! I see the faces of my youth . 
Yes , they sometimes say to me , Your hair is not white you are working night and day without seeming ever to stop you can't be old . 
I shut my eyes now and look back to my native town in Massachusetts , and I see the cattle show ground on the mountain top I can see the horse sheds there . 
I can see that company of soldiers that had re enlisted marching up on that cattle show ground . 
I was but a boy , but I was captain of that company and puffed out with pride . 
A cambric needle would have burst me all to pieces . 
Then I thought it was the greatest event that ever came to man on earth . 
If you have ever thought you would like to be a king or queen , you go and be received by the mayor . 
The bands played , and all the people turned out to receive us . 
I marched up that Common so proud at the head of my troops , and we turned down into the town hall . 
Then they seated my soldiers down the center aisle and I sat down on the front seat . 
A great assembly of people a hundred or two came in to fill the town hall , so that they stood up all around . 
Then the town officers came in and formed a half circle . 
The mayor of the town sat in the middle of the platform . 
He was a man who had never held office before but he was a good man , and his friends have told me that I might use this without giving them offense . 
He was a good man , but he thought an office made a man great . 
He came up and took his seat , adjusted his powerful spectacles , and looked around , when he suddenly spied me sitting there on the front seat . 
He came right forward on the platform and invited me up to sit with the town officers . 
Oh my ! the town mayor was then the emperor , the king of our day and our time . 
As I came up on the platform they gave me a chair about this far , I would say , from the front . 
But , friends , you should have seen the surprise which ran over the audience when they discovered that the old fellow was going to deliver that speech himself . 
He had never made a speech in his life , but he fell into the same error that hundreds of other men have fallen into . 
So he came up to the front , and brought with him a speech which he had learned by heart walking up and down the pasture , where he had frightened the cattle . 
He brought the manuscript with him and spread it out on the table so as to be sure he might see it . 
He adjusted his spectacles and leaned over it for a moment and marched back on that platform , and then came forward like this tramp , tramp , tramp . 
He must have studied the subject a great deal , when you come to think of it , because he assumed an elocutionary'' attitude . 
As he stood in that elocutionary attitude , friends , this is just the way that speech went . 
Some people say to me , Don't you exaggerate ? '' That would be impossible . 
He choked and swallowed and came around to the table to look at the manuscript . 
We are very happy to welcome back to their native town these soldiers who have fought and bled and come back again to their native town . 
We are especially we are especially we are especially . 
this young hero who in imagination we have seen leading we have seen leading leading . 
We have seen leading his troops on to the deadly breach . 
We have seen his shining we have seen his shining his shining his shining sword flashing . 
Flashing in the sunlight , as he shouted to his troops , Come on' ! '' Oh dear , dear , dear ! how little that good man knew about war . 
I , with my shining sword flashing in the sunlight , shouting to my troops , Come on' ! '' I never did it . 
The place for the officer in actual battle is behind the line . 
Not because he is any the less brave , but because the laws of war require that . 
Some of them had gone far out to get a pig or a chicken . 
Some of them had gone to death under the shell swept pines in the mountains of Tennessee , yet in the good man's speech they were scarcely known . 
He did refer to them , but only incidentally . 
The hero of the hour was this boy . 
Did the nation owe him anything ? No , nothing then and nothing now . 
Why was he the hero ? Simply because that man fell into that same human error that this boy was great because he was an officer and these were only private soldiers . 
Oh , I learned the lesson then that I will never forget so long as the tongue of the bell of time continues to swing for me . 
Greatness consists not in the holding of some future office , but really consists in doing great deeds with little means and the accomplishment of vast purposes from the private ranks of life . 
To be great at all one must be great here , now , in Philadelphia . 
HIS LIFE AND ACHIEVEMENTS BY ROBERT SHACKLETON THE STORY OF THE SWORD Dr , Conwell was living , and actively at work , when these pages were written . 
It is , therefore , a much truer picture of his personality than anything written in the past tense . 
I shall write of Russell H. Conwell . 
He left the law for the ministry and is the active head of a great church that he raised from nothingness . 
He is the most popular lecturer in the world and yearly speaks to many thousands . 
He is , so to speak , the discoverer of Acres of Diamonds , '' through which thousands of men and women have achieved success out of failure . 
He is the founder and head of a university that has already had tens of thousands of students . 
His home is in Philadelphia but he is known in every corner of every state in the Union , and everywhere he has hosts of friends . 
All of his life he has helped and inspired others . 
And it was only a few days before I chanced upon this description that Dr . 
Conwell , the former colonel and former lay preacher , had told me of his experiences in that little old Revolutionary town . 
Howells went on to say that , so he was told , the colonel's success was principally due to his making the church attractive to young people . 
'' Yes , one can recognize that to day , just as it was recognized in Lexington . 
And it may be added that he at the same time attracts older people , too ! In this , indeed , lies his power . 
He makes his church interesting , his sermons interesting , his lectures interesting . 
He is himself interesting ! Because of his being interesting , he gains attention . 
The attention gained , he inspires . 
Biography is more than dates . 
Dates , after all , are but mile stones along the road of life . 
And the most important fact of Conwell's life is that he lived to be eighty two , working sixteen hours every day for the good of his fellow men . 
He was born on February , born of poor parents , in a low roofed cottage in the eastern Berkshires , in Massachusetts . 
I was born in this room . 
It was bedroom and kitchen . 
'' And his voice sank with a kind of grimness into silence . 
This interview took place at the old Conwell farm in the summer of . 
Why does grandmother cry so often ? '' he remembers asking when he was a little boy . 
And he was told that it was for the husband of her youth . 
We went back into the little house , and he showed me the room in which he first saw John Brown . 
I came down early one morning , and saw a huge , hairy man sprawled upon the bed there and I was frightened , '' he says . 
Those were heroic days , '' he says , quietly . 
And once in a while my father let me go with him . 
They were wonderful night drives the cowering slaves , the darkness of the road , the caution and the silence and dread of it all . 
Conwell tells , too , of meeting Frederick Douglass , the colored orator , in that little cottage in the hills . 
When John Brown was captured , '' Conwell went on , my father tried to sell this place to get a little money to send to help his defense . 
And as we prayed we knew that others were also praying , for a church bell tolled during that entire hour , and its awesome boom went sadly sounding over these hills . 
Yet the real Conwell was always essentially the same . 
He dreams dreams and sees visions but his visions are never visionary and his dreams become facts . 
Then a wise country preacher also recognized the unusual , and urged the parents to give still more education , whereupon supreme effort was made and young Russell was sent to Wilbraham Academy . 
They were a foundation of learning for me , '' he says , soberly . 
And they gave me a broad idea of the world . 
'' He went to Yale in , but the outbreak of the war interfered with college , and he enlisted in . 
But he was only eighteen , and his father objected , and he went back to Yale . 
'' And with that sword is associated the most vivid , the most momentous experience of Russell Conwell's life . 
That sword hangs at the head of Conwell's bed in his home in Philadelphia . 
Man of peace that he is , and minister of peace , that symbol of war has for over half a century been of infinite importance to him . 
He told me the story as we stood together before that sword . 
I didn't want a servant , but it was the only way to take poor little Johnnie Ring . 
Johnnie was deeply religious , and would read the Bible every evening before turning in . 
John Ring used to handle it adoringly , and kept it polished to brilliancy . 
It's dull enough these many years , '' he added , somberly . 
To Ring it represented not only his captain , but the very glory and pomp of war . 
It soon blazed up furiously , making a barrier that the Confederates could not pass . 
But , unknown to everybody , and unnoticed , John Ring had dashed back to my tent . 
John Ring seized the sword that had long been so precious to him . 
He dodged here and there , and actually managed to gain the bridge just as it was beginning to blaze . 
Both sides saw him both sides watched his terrible progress , even while firing was fiercely kept up from each side of the river . 
And then a Confederate officer he was one of General Pickett's officers ran to the water's edge and waved a white handkerchief and the firing ceased . 
Tell that boy to come back here ! he cried . 
There was dead silence except for the crackling of the fire . 
Not a man cried out . 
All waited in hopeless expectancy . 
He took it in his arms . 
He hugged it to his breast . 
He gave a few words of final message for me . 
When he spoke again it was with a still tenser tone of feeling . 
When I stood beside the body of John Ring and realized that he had died for love of me , I made a vow that has formed my life . 
I vowed that from that moment I would live not only my own life , but that I would also live the life of John Ring . 
And from that moment I have worked sixteen hours every day eight for John Ring's work and eight hours for my own . 
'' A curious note had come into his voice , as of one who had run the race and neared the goal , fought the good fight and neared the end . 
This did not come about immediately , but it came before the war was over , and it came through faithful Johnnie Ring . 
'' There is a little lonely cemetery in the Berkshires , a tiny burying ground on a wind swept hill , a few miles from Conwell's old home . 
And in that lonely little graveyard I found the plain stone that marks the resting place of John Ring . 
II THE BEGINNING AT OLD LEXINGTON IT is not because he is a minister that Russell Conwell is such a force in the world . 
But being a minister is but an incident , so to speak . 
'' And he said this in serious and unexaggerated earnest . 
Yet Conwell did not get readily into his life work . 
He restlessly went westward to make his home , and then restlessly returned to the East . 
After the war was over he was a lawyer , he was a lecturer , he was an editor , he went around the world as a correspondent , he wrote books . 
He kept making money , and kept losing it he lost it through fire , through investments , through aiding his friends . 
Abroad he met the notables of the earth . 
At home he made hosts of friends and loyal admirers . 
It is worth while noting that as a lawyer he would never take a case , either civil or criminal , that he considered wrong . 
It was basic with him that he could not and would not fight on what he thought was the wrong side . 
The next day the wrongly accused one came to his office and shamefacedly took out the watch that he had been charged with stealing . 
I want you to send it to the man I took it from , '' he said . 
And he told with a sort of shamefaced pride of how he had got a good old deacon to give , in all sincerity , the evidence that exculpated him . 
The emotional temperament of Conwell has always made him responsive to the great , the striking , the patriotic . 
He was deeply influenced by knowing John Brown , and his brief memories of Lincoln are intense , though he saw him but three times in all . 
The first time he saw Lincoln was on the night when the future President delivered the address , which afterward became so famous , in Cooper Union , New York . 
The name of Lincoln was then scarcely known , and it was by mere chance that young Conwell happened to be in New York on that day . 
But being there , and learning that Abraham Lincoln from the West was going to make an address , he went to hear him . 
The chairman of the meeting got Lincoln a glass of water , and Conwell thought that it was from a personal desire to help him and keep him from breaking down . 
To Conwell it was a tremendous experience . 
The second time he saw Lincoln was when he went to Washington to plead for the life of one of his men who had been condemned to death for sleeping on post . 
, a youth , and was awed by going into the presence of the man he worshiped . 
It will be all right , '' said Lincoln , when Conwell finished . 
But Conwell was still frightened . 
He feared that in the multiplicity of public matters this mere matter of the life of a mountain boy , a private soldier , might be forgotten till too late . 
It is almost the time set '' he faltered . 
'' That was the one and only time that he spoke with Lincoln , and it remains an indelible impression . 
The third time he saw Lincoln was when , as officer of the day , he stood for hours beside the dead body of the President as it lay in state in Washington . 
Had it been in some other kind of place , some merely ordinary place , some quite usual place , he might not have taken the important step . 
I went out and looked at the place , and I told her how the property could be sold . 
But it seemed a pity to me that the little church should be given up . 
However , I advised a meeting of the church members , and I attended the meeting . 
I put the case to them it was only a handful of men and women and there was silence for a little . 
The men and the women looked at one another , still silent , sadly impressed , but not knowing what to do . 
I looked over that building , '' he goes on , whimsically , and I saw that repair really seemed out of the question . 
Nothing but a new church would do ! So I took the ax that I had brought with me and began chopping the place down . 
But the people won't do that , he said . 
Yes , they will , I said , cheerfully , keeping at my work . 
Whereupon he watched me a few minutes longer and said Well , you can put me down for one hundred dollars for the new building . 
Come up to my livery stable and get it this evening . 
All right I'll surely be there , I replied . 
You'll never get it , he said . 
He's not that sort of a man . 
And it was there in Lexington , in , that I determined to become a minister . 
I had a good law practice , but I determined to give it up . 
For many years I had felt more or less of a call to the ministry , and here at length was the definite time to begin . 
Naturally enough , they did not have Conwell's vision . 
I rather suppose the old time martyrs rather enjoyed themselves in being martyrs ! '' Conwell did not stay very long in Lexington . 
Thus it came that Philadelphia had early become dear to him . 
And here is an excellent example of how dreaming great dreams may go hand in hand with winning superb results . 
For that little struggling congregation now owns and occupies a great new church building that seats more people than any other Protestant church in America and Dr . 
Conwell fills it ! III STORY OF THE FIFTY SEVEN CENTS AT every point in Conwell's life one sees that he wins through his wonderful personal influence on old and young . 
Every step forward , every triumph achieved , comes not alone from his own enthusiasm , but because of his putting that enthusiasm into others . 
And yet the tale was so simple and sweet and sad and unpretending . 
I lifted her to my shoulder , '' says Dr . 
Conwell , in telling of this for after hearing the story elsewhere I asked him to tell it to me himself , for it seemed almost too strange to be true . 
And when she went home she told her parents I only learned this afterward that she was going to save money to help build the larger church and Sunday school that Dr . 
Conwell wanted ! Her parents pleasantly humored her in the idea and let her run errands and do little tasks to earn pennies , and she began dropping the pennies into her bank . 
And there , at the funeral , he handed me what she had saved just fifty seven cents in pennies . 
Conwell does not say how deeply he was moved he is , after all , a man of very few words as to his own emotions . 
But a deep tenderness had crept into his voice . 
For until then the matter had barely been spoken of , as a new church building had been simply a possibility for the future . 
'' It was characteristic of Dr . 
I talked the matter over with the owner of the property , and told him of the beginning of the fund , the story of the little girl . 
But it was not done in that way , after all , for , fine though that way would have been , there was to be one still finer . 
I said to my wife that they seemed to be having a better time than we had had , and we went in , curious to know what it was all about . 
And it turned out that our absence had been intentionally arranged , and that the church people had gathered at our home to meet us on our return . 
And all had come so quickly and directly from that dear little girl's fifty seven cents . 
'' Doesn't it seem like a fairy tale ! But then this man has all his life been making fairy tales into realities . 
He inspired the owner of the land . 
Conwell's taking charge of it , it was something far ahead of what , except in the eyes of an enthusiast , they could possibly complete and pay for and support . 
Nor was it an easy task . 
Ground was broken for the building in , in it was opened for worship , and then came years of raising money to clear it . 
The church is built of stone , and its interior is a great amphitheater . 
Special attention has been given to fresh air and light there is nothing of the dim , religious light that goes with medieval churchliness . 
Behind the pulpit are tiers of seats for the great chorus choir . 
There is a large organ . 
Man of feeling that he is , and one who appreciates the importance of symbols , Dr . 
Conwell had a heart of olive wood built into the front of the pulpit , for the wood was from an olive tree in the Garden of Gethsemane . 
Conwell wished to show that it is not only the house of the Lord , but also , in a keenly personal sense , the house of those who built it . 
The church has a possible seating capacity of , , although only , chairs have been put in it , for it has been the desire not to crowd the space needlessly . 
It is a spacious and practical and complete church home , and the people feel at home there . 
You see again , '' said Dr . 
Conwell , musingly , the advantage of aiming at big things . 
That building represents , above ground . 
It is free from debt . 
Had we built a small church , it would now be heavily mortgaged . 
'' IV HIS POWER AS ORATOR AND PREACHER EVEN as a young man Conwell won local fame as an orator . 
At the outbreak of the Civil War he began making patriotic speeches that gained enlistments . 
And as a preacher he uses persuasion , power , simple and homely eloquence , to draw men to the ranks of Christianity . 
He is an orator born , and has developed this inborn power by the hardest of study and thought and practice . 
He is one of those rare men who always seize and hold the attention . 
When he speaks , men listen . 
It is quality , temperament , control the word is immaterial , but the fact is very material indeed . 
Some quarter of a century ago Conwell published a little book for students on the study and practice of oratory . 
'' His voice is soft pitched and never breaks , even now when he is over seventy , because , so he explains it , he always speaks in his natural voice . 
There is never a straining after effect . 
A speaker must possess a large hearted regard for the welfare of his audience , '' he writes , and here again we see Conwell explaining Conwellism . 
He never fears to use humor , and it is always very simple and obvious and effective . 
With him even a very simple pun may be used , not only with out taking away from the strength of what he is saying , but with a vivid increase of impressiveness . 
And when he says something funny it is in such a delightful and confidential way , with such a genial , quiet , infectious humorousness , that his audience is captivated . 
It is seldom that he uses an illustration from what he has read everything is , characteristically , his own . 
Henry M. Stanley , who knew him well , referred to him as that double sighted Yankee , '' who could see at a glance all there is and all there ever was . 
'' And never was there a man who so supplements with personal reminiscence the place or the person that has figured in the illustration . 
But that would be a mistake . 
'' Listening to him , you begin to feel in touch with everybody and everything , and in a friendly and intimate way . 
Be intensely in earnest , '' he writes and in writing this he sets down a prime principle not only of his oratory , but of his life . 
A young minister told me that Dr . 
Conwell once said to him , with deep feeling , Always remember , as you preach , that you are striving to save at least one soul with every sermon . 
'' And to one of his close friends Dr . 
'' And in this , even if this were all , one sees why each of his sermons is so impressive , and why his energy never lags . 
The moment he rises and steps to the front of his pulpit he has the attention of every one in the building , and this attention he closely holds till he is through . 
Yet it is never by a striking effort that attention is gained , except in so far that his utter simplicity is striking . 
For example , he is reading the tenth chapter of I Samuel , and begins , Thou shalt meet a company of prophets . 
'' Singers , it should be translated , '' he puts in , lifting his eyes from the page and looking out over his people . 
'' Music is one of Conwell's strongest aids . 
For he possesses a mysterious faculty of imbuing others with his own happiness . 
Not only singers , but the modern equivalent of psaltery and tabret and cymbals , all have their place in Dr . 
His musical taste seems to tend toward the thunderous or perhaps it is only that he knows there are times when people like to hear the thunderous and are moved by it . 
And how the choir themselves like it ! They occupy a great curving space behind the pulpit , and put their hearts into song . 
And as the congregation disperse and the choir filter down , sometimes they are still singing and some of them continue to sing as they go slowly out toward the doors . 
They are happy Conwell himself is happy all the congregation are happy . 
He makes everybody feel happy in coming to church he makes the church attractive just as Howells was so long ago told that he did in Lexington . 
And there is something more than happiness there is a sense of ease , of comfort , of general joy , that is quite unmistakable . 
There is nothing of stiffness or constraint . 
And with it all there is full reverence . 
It is no wonder that he is accustomed to fill every seat of the great building . 
His gestures are usually very simple . 
Now and then , when he works up to emphasis , he strikes one fist in the palm of the other hand . 
And though he is past the threescore years and ten , he looks out over his people with eyes that still have the veritable look of youth . 
Like all great men , he not only does big things , but keeps in touch with myriad details . 
When his assistant , announcing the funeral of an old member , hesitates about the street and number and says that they can be found in the telephone directory , Dr . 
One Sunday evening he made an almost casual reference to the time when he first met Garfield , then a candidate for the Presidency . 
When we got there , a neighbor had to find him . 
Jim ! Jim ! he called . 
You see , Garfield was just plain Jim to his old neighbors . 
He said that he had heard the best concerts and the finest operas in the world , but had never heard anything he loved as he still loved The Old Time Religion . 
I forget what reason there was for McKinley's especially liking it , but he , as did Garfield , liked it immensely . 
Every heart was moved and touched , and that old tune will sing in the memory of all who thus heard it and sung it as long as they live . 
But when he prays , when he turns to God , his manner undergoes a subtle and unconscious change . 
A load has slipped off his shoulders and has been assumed by a higher power . 
Into his bearing , dignified though it was , there comes an unconscious increase of the dignity . 
Into his voice , firm as it was before , there comes a deeper note of firmness . 
One does not need to be a Christian to appreciate the beauty and fineness of Conwell's prayers . 
His sincerity is so evident , and whatever he does is done so simply and naturally , that it is just a matter of course . 
No one thought it strange . 
I was likely enough the only one who noticed it . 
His people are used to his sincerities . 
And this time it was merely that he had a few words to say quietly to God and turned aside for a few moments to say them . 
His earnestness of belief in prayer makes him a firm believer in answers to prayer , and , in fact , to what may be termed the direct interposition of Providence . 
Doubtless the mystic strain inherited from his mother has also much to do with this . 
He had tried all the sources that seemed open to him , but in vain . 
They had urged a delay till other expenses were met , and he had acted against their advice . 
He had tried such friends as he could , and he had tried prayer . 
But there was no sign of aid , whether supernatural or natural . 
It turned out that the man's sister , who was one of the Temple membership , had written to her brother of Dr . 
She knew nothing of any special need for money , knew nothing whatever of any note or of the demand for a thousand dollars she merely outlined to her brother what Dr . 
Conwell was accomplishing , and with such enthusiasm that the brother at once sent the opportune check . 
At a later time the sum of ten thousand dollars was importunately needed . 
It was due , payment had been promised . 
It was for some of the construction work of the Temple University buildings . 
The last day had come , and Conwell and the very few who knew of the emergency were in the depths of gloom . 
There was no rich man to turn to the men famous for enormous charitable gifts have never let themselves be interested in any of the work of Russell Conwell . 
So when it was absolutely necessary to have ten thousand dollars the possibilities of money had been exhausted , whether from congregation or individuals . 
And once in a while there comes a time when the mountain looms too threatening , even after the bravest efforts and the deepest trust . 
Such a time had come the ten thousand dollar debt was a looming mountain that he had tried in vain to move . 
He could still pray , and he did , but it was one of the times when he could only think that something had gone wrong . 
That was eight or nine years ago , but although the donor was told at the time that Dr . 
Conwell and all of us were most grateful for the gift , it was not until very recently that she was told how opportune it was . 
And the change it made in Dr . 
Conwell would make some casual reply , generally to the effect that they might be excellent as fire escapes . 
Conwell had organized it , and it consisted of a number of classes and teachers , meeting in highly inadequate quarters in two little houses . 
If your rooms are big the people will come and fill them , '' he likes to say . 
The same effort that wins a small success would , rightly directed , have won a great success . 
Think big things and then do them ! '' Most favorite of all maxims with this man of maxims , is Let Patience have her perfect work . 
'' Over and over he loves to say it , and his friends laugh about his love for it , and he knows that they do and laughs about it himself . 
I tire them all , '' he says , for they hear me say it every day . 
'' But he says it every day because it means so much to him . 
Those who have long known him well have said to me that they have never heard him censure any one that his forbearance and kindness are wonderful . 
Conwell would enter one of the regular ministers' meetings , all would hold aloof , not a single one stepping forward to meet or greet him . 
And it was all through our jealousy of his success , '' said the minister , vehemently . 
He came to this city a stranger , and he won instant popularity , and we couldn't stand it , and so we pounced upon things that he did that were altogether unimportant . 
The rest of us were so jealous of his winning throngs that we couldn't see the good in him . 
Conwell so much that for ten years he did not come to our conferences . 
But all this was changed long ago . 
We got over our jealousy long ago and we all love him . 
'' Nor is it only that the clergymen of his own denomination admire him , for not long ago , such having been Dr . 
He is an inspiration to his brothers in the ministry of Jesus Christ , '' so this Episcopalian rector wrote . 
These words come from the heart of one who loves , honors , and reverences him for his character and his deeds . 
But he was original and he was popular , and therefore there were misunderstanding and jealousy . 
Yet his own people recognized the beauty and poetry of them , and thousands of Bibles in Philadelphia have a baptismal rose from Dr . 
Conwell pressed within the pages . 
He is always new to them . 
The power , the ruggedness , the physical and mental strength , the positive grandeur of the man all these are like the general conceptions of the big Old Testament prophets . 
Conwell himself is amused to remember that he wanted to talk in public from his boyhood , and that very early he began to yield to the inborn impulse . 
, and that he lectures throughout the entire course of each year , including six nights a week of lecturing during vacation time . 
And the total is steadily mounting , for he is a man who has never known the meaning of rest . 
I think it almost certain that Dr . 
How he does it , how he can possibly keep it up , is the greatest marvel of all . 
The list is the itinerary of his vacation . 
Vacation ! Lecturing every evening but Sunday , and on Sundays preaching in the town where he happens to be ! June Ackley , Ia . 
July Brookings , S. D. Waterloo , Ia . 
Canton , S. D Red Wing , Minn . 
Cherokee , Ia River Falls , Wis . 
Pocahontas , Ia Northfield , Minn . 
Indianola , Ia Fairmount , Minn . 
Corydon , Ia Lake Crystal , Minn . 
Redwood Falls , Sidney , Ia . 
Redfield , S. D. Greenleaf , Kan . 
Huron , S. D. Osborne , Kan . 
En route to next date on Montrose , Pa . 
Newton , N. J. Wellsville , N. Y. Newton , N. J. Bath , N. Y. Hackettstown , N. J. Bath , N. Y. New Hope , Pa . 
Penn Yan , N. Y. Doylestown , Pa . 
Athens , N. Y. Ph oe nixville , Pa . 
Owego , N. Y. Kennett , Pa . 
, N. Y. Oxford , Pa . 
Port Jervis , N. Y. Oxford , Pa . 
Conwell is intensely modest is one of the curious features of his character . 
He sincerely believes that to write his life would be , in the main , just to tell what people have done for him . 
He knows and admits that he works unweariedly , but in profound sincerity he ascribes the success of his plans to those who have seconded and assisted him . 
It is in just this way that he looks upon every phase of his life . 
He deprecates praise if any one likes him , the liking need not be shown in words , but in helping along a good work . 
To him , as he himself expresses it , realizing that success has come to his plans , it seems as if the realities are but dreams . 
He is astonished by his own success . 
He thinks mainly of his own shortcomings . 
God and man have ever been very patient with me . 
It is the Hitch your chariot to a star'' idea . 
Everywhere the man wins love . 
He loves humanity and humanity responds to the love . 
And he wrote and sent the beautiful lines beginning Dead he lay among his books , The peace of God was in his looks . 
Many men of letters , including Ralph Waldo Emerson , were present at the services , and Dr . 
Conwell induced Oliver Wendell Holmes to read the lines , and they were listened to amid profound silence , to their fine ending . 
Conwell , in spite of his widespread hold on millions of people , has never won fame , recognition , general renown , compared with many men of minor achievements . 
This seems like an impossibility . 
Yet it is not an impossibility , but a fact . 
It is inexplicable , this , except that never was there a man more devoid of the faculty of self exploitation , self advertising , than Russell Conwell . 
But Russell Conwell has always won the admiration of the really great , as well as of the humbler millions . 
It is only a supposedly cultured class in between that is not thoroughly acquainted with what he has done . 
Such considerations seem absurd in this twentieth century , but in Philadelphia they are still potent . 
His dearest hope , so one of the few who are close to him told me , is that no one shall come into his life without being benefited . 
It is not the first time in the world's history that Scribes have failed to give their recognition to one whose work was not among the great and wealthy . 
He knows and will admit that he works hard and has all his life worked hard . 
Things keep turning my way because I'm on the job , '' as he whimsically expressed it one day but that is about all , so it seems to him . 
And he sincerely believes that his life has in itself been without interest that it has been an essentially commonplace life with nothing of the interesting or the eventful to tell . 
He is frankly surprised that there has ever been the desire to write about him . 
He really has no idea of how fascinating are the things he has done . 
His entire life has been of positive interest from the variety of things accomplished and the unexpectedness with which he has accomplished them . 
Never , for example , was there such an organizer . 
In fact , organization and leadership have always been as the breath of life to him . 
As a youth he organized debating societies and , before the war , a local military company . 
While on garrison duty in the Civil War he organized what is believed to have been the first free school for colored children in the South . 
Once he even started a newspaper . 
The many sidedness of Conwell is one of the things that is always fascinating . 
'' The man's life is a succession of delightful surprises . 
An odd trait of his character is his love for fire . 
He has for years been a keen sufferer from rheumatism and neuritis , but he has never permitted this to interfere with his work or plans . 
He makes little of his sufferings , and when he slowly makes his way , bent and twisted , downstairs , he does not want to be noticed . 
I'm all right , '' he will say if any one offers to help , and at such a time comes his nearest approach to impatience . 
He wants his suffering ignored . 
Strength has always been to him so precious a belonging that he will not relinquish it while he lives . 
I'm all right ! '' And he makes himself believe that he is all right even though the pain becomes so severe as to demand massage . 
And he will still , even when suffering , talk calmly , or write his letters , or attend to whatever matters come before him . 
It is the Spartan boy hiding the pain of the gnawing fox . 
And he never has let pain interfere with his presence on the pulpit or the platform . 
One evening , after a service , a young man of the congregation came to me and I saw that he was disturbed about something . 
I had him sit down by me , and I knew that in a few moments he would tell me what was troubling him . 
Conwell , he said , abruptly , I earn but little money , and I see no immediate chance of earning more . 
I have to support not only myself , but my mother . 
It leaves nothing at all . 
Yet my longing is to be a minister . 
It is the one ambition of my life . 
Is there anything that I can do ? Any man , I said to him , with the proper determination and ambition can study sufficiently at night to win his desire . 
I have tried to think so , said he , but I have not been able to see anything clearly . 
I want to study , and am ready to give every spare minute to it , but I don't know how to get at it . 
I thought a few minutes , as I looked at him . 
His face brightened and he eagerly said that he would come , and left me but in a little while he came hurrying back again . 
May I bring a friend with me ? he said . 
I told him to bring as many as he wanted to , for more than one would be an advantage , and when the evening came there were six friends with him . 
And that first evening I began to teach them the foundations of Latin . 
'' He stopped as if the story was over . 
In a little while he went on That was the beginning of it , and there is little more to tell . 
By the third evening the number of pupils had increased to forty others joined in helping me , and a room was hired then a little house , then a second house . 
From a few students and teachers we became a college . 
After a while our buildings went up on Broad Street alongside the Temple Church , and after another while we became a university . 
our aim was to give education to those who were unable to get it through the usual channels . 
And so that was really all there was to it . 
I honor those who came so devotedly to help . 
And it should be remembered that in those early days the need was even greater than it would now appear , for there were then no night schools or manual training schools . 
And there seems no lessening of the need of it , '' he added , ponderingly . 
No there is certainly no lessening of the need of it ! The figures of the annual catalogue would alone show that . 
Cultivate a taste for the higher and most useful branches of learning . 
Awaken in the character of young laboring men and women a determined ambition to be useful to their fellow men . 
It was chartered in , at which time its numbers had reached almost six hundred , and it has ever since had a constant flood of applicants . 
It has demonstrated , '' as Dr . 
Conwell puts it , that those who work for a living have time for study . 
'' And he , though he does not himself add this , has given the opportunity . 
He feels especial pride in the features by which lectures and recitations are held at practically any hour which best suits the convenience of the students . 
Obviously , there is no place at Temple University for students who care only for a few years of leisured ease . 
It is a place for workers , and not at all for those who merely wish to be able to boast that they attended a university . 
First it offers a high school education to the student who has to quit school after leaving the grammar school . 
Second it offers a full college education , with the branches taught in long established high grade colleges , to the student who has to quit on leaving the high school . 
There were in high school work , and in elementary education . 
There were studying music , and studying to be trained nurses . 
There were in the college of liberal arts and sciences , and in the department of commercial education there were for it is a university that offers both scholarship and practicality . 
Temple University is not in the least a charitable institution . 
Its fees are low , and its hours are for the convenience of the students themselves , but it is a place of absolute independence . 
Temple University in its early years was sorely in need of money , and often there were thrills of expectancy when some man of mighty wealth seemed on the point of giving . 
But not a single one ever did , and now the Temple likes to feel that it is glad of it . 
The Temple , to quote its own words , is An institution for strong men and women who can labor with both mind and body . 
The state money is invested in the brains and hearts of the ambitious . 
The Temple knows of many such , who have thus won prominent advancement . 
And it knows of teachers who , while continuing to teach , have fitted themselves through the Temple courses for professorships . 
One day a young woman came to him and said she earned only three dollars a week and that she desired very much to make more . 
Can you tell me how to do it ? '' she said . 
But though the hat seemed too expensive for three dollars a week , Dr . 
Conwell is not a man who makes snap judgments harshly , and in particular he would be the last man to turn away hastily one who had sought him out for help . 
Oh if I only could ! '' she exclaimed . 
But I know that I don't know enough . 
'' Take the millinery course in Temple University , '' he responded . 
She was an unusual woman , '' concluded Dr . 
Conwell , and she worked with enthusiasm and tirelessness . 
That was only a few years ago . 
Conwell , It is difficult to speak in tempered language of what he has achieved . 
Conwell , talking of the university , unexpectedly remarked that he would like to see such institu tions scattered throughout every state in the Union . 
'' There was something superb in the very imagining of such a nation wide system . 
But I did not ask whether or not he had planned any details for such an effort . 
I knew that thus far it might only be one of his dreams but I also knew that his dreams had a way of becoming realities . 
I had a fleeting glimpse of his soaring vision . 
It was amazing to find a man of more than three score and ten thus dreaming of more worlds to conquer . 
He is a man who sees vividly and who can describe vividly . 
Yet often his letters , even from places of the most profound interest , are mostly concerned with affairs back home . 
There could be no stronger example than what I noticed in a letter he wrote from Jerusa lem . 
'' That is Conwellism ! That he founded a hospital a work in itself great enough for even a great life is but one among the striking incidents of his career . 
And it came about through perfect naturalness . 
There was so much sickness and suffering to be alleviated , there were so many deaths that could be prevented and so he decided to start another hospital . 
And , like everything with him , the beginning was small . 
That cannot too strongly be set down as the way of this phenomenally successful organizer . 
Most men would have to wait until a big beginning could be made , and so would most likely never make a beginning at all . 
But Conwell's way is to dream of future bigness , but be ready to begin at once , no matter how small or insignificant the beginning may appear to others . 
Two rented rooms , one nurse , one patient this was the humble beginning , in , of what has developed into the great Samaritan Hospital . 
In a year there was an entire house , fitted up with wards and operating room . 
Now it occupies several buildings , including and adjoining that first one , and a great new structure is planned . 
And the hospital has a kindly feature that endears it to patients and their relatives alike , and that is that , by Dr . 
Conwell's personal order , there are not only the usual week day hours for visiting , but also one evening a week and every Sunday afternoon . 
For otherwise , '' as he says , many would be unable to come because they could not get away from their work . 
'' A little over eight years ago another hospital was taken in charge , the Garretson not founded by Conwell , this one , but acquired , and promptly expanded in its usefulness . 
Both the Samaritan and the Garretson are part of Temple University . 
The Samaritan Hospital has treated , since its foundation , up to the middle of , , patients the Garretson , in its shorter life , , . 
Including dispensary cases as well as house patients , the two hospitals together , under the headship of President Conwell , have handled over , cases . 
How Conwell can possibly meet the multifarious demands upon his time is in itself a miracle . 
And he is never too busy to see any one who really wishes to see him . 
He has several secretaries , for special work , besides his private secretary . 
His correspondence is very great . 
Often he dictates to a secretary as he travels on the train . 
Even in the few days for which he can run back to the Berkshires , work is awaiting him . 
And after knowing of this , one is positively amazed that he is able to give to his country wide lectures the time and the traveling that they inexorably demand . 
Only a man of immense strength , of the greatest stamina , a veritable superman , could possibly do it . 
He rises at seven and studies until breakfast , which is at eight thirty . 
Then he studies until nine forty five , when he leads a men's meeting at which he is likely also to play the organ and lead the singing . 
At ten thirty is the principal church service , at which he preaches , and at the close of which he shakes hands with hundreds . 
He is also sure to look in at the regular session of the Sunday school . 
Home again , where he studies and reads until supper time . 
He is usually home by ten thirty . 
I spoke of it , one evening , as having been a strenuous day , and he responded , with a cheerfully whimsical smile Three sermons and shook hands with nine hundred . 
'' That evening , as the service closed , he had said to the congregation I shall be here for an hour . 
We always have a pleasant time together after service . 
If you are acquainted with me , come up and shake hands . 
If you are strangers'' just the slightest of pauses come up and let us make an acquaintance that will last for eternity . 
'' I remember how simply and easily this was said , in his clear , deep voice , and how impressive and important it seemed , and with what unexpectedness it came . 
Even his own congregation have , most of them , little conception of how busy a man he is and how precious is his time . 
After the prayer meeting he went to two dinners in succession , both of them important dinners in connection with the close of the university year , and at both dinners he spoke . 
Next morning he was up at seven and again at work . 
Conwell has a profound love for the country and particularly for the country of his own youth . 
He loves the wind that comes sweeping over the hills , he loves the wide stretching views from the heights and the forest intimacies of the nestled nooks . 
He loves the rippling streams , he loves the wild flowers that nestle in seclusion or that unexpectedly paint some mountain meadow with delight . 
He loves the very touch of the earth , and he loves the great bare rocks . 
That is heaven in the eyes of a New England hill man ! Not golden pavement and ivory palaces , but valleys and trees and flowers and the wide sweep of the open . 
Few things please him more than to go , for example , blackberrying , and he has a knack of never scratching his face or his fingers when doing so . 
And he finds blackberrying , whether he goes alone or with friends , an extraordinarily good time for planning something he wishes to do or working out the thought of a sermon . 
And fishing is even better , for in fishing he finds immense recreation and restfulness and at the same time a further opportunity to think and plan . 
He likes to float about restfully on this pond , thinking or fishing , or both . 
So they may still come and fish for trout here . 
Always , in his very appearance , you see something of this ruggedness of the hills a ruggedness , a sincerity , a plainness , that mark alike his character and his looks . 
And always one realizes the strength of the man , even when his voice , as it usually is , is low . 
And one increasingly realizes the strength when , on the lecture platform or in the pulpit or in conversation , he flashes vividly into fire . 
A big boned man he is , sturdy framed , a tall man , with broad shoulders and strong hands . 
His hair is a deep chestnut brown that at first sight seems black . 
And his face is illumined by marvelous eyes . 
He is a lonely man . 
He married again and this wife was his loyal helpmate for many years . 
She died after years of companionship his children married and made homes of their own he is a lonely man . 
Yet he is not unhappy , for the tremendous demands of his tremendous work leave him little time for sadness or retrospect . 
At times the realization comes that he is getting old , that friends and comrades have been passing away , leaving him an old man with younger friends and helpers . 
But such realization only makes him work with an earnestness still more intense , knowing that the night cometh when no man shall work . 
Deeply religious though he is , he does not force religion into conversation on ordinary subjects or upon people who may not be interested in it . 
His own way of putting it is that he uses stories frequently because people are more impressed by illustrations than by argument . 
Always , whether in the pulpit or out of it , he is simple and homelike , human and unaffected . 
As he became known he ceased from this direct and open method of charity , for he knew that impulsiveness would be taken for intentional display . 
But he has never ceased to be ready to help on the instant that he knows help is needed . 
Delay and lengthy investigation are avoided by him when he can be certain that something immediate is required . 
And the extent of his quiet charity is amazing . 
With no family for which to save money , and with no care to put away money for himself , he thinks only of money as an instrument for helpfulness . 
I never heard a friend criticize him except for too great open handedness . 
And it was characteristic of Conwell that he saw , what so many never saw , the most striking characteristic of that Tammany leader . 
Naturally , Russell Conwell stands steadily and strongly for good citizenship . 
But he never talks boastful Americanism . 
Oh , I've heard something about it somebody said that somebody watched me , or something of the kind . 
But I don't remember anything about it myself . 
, was with regard to doing away with close communion . 
The table of the Lord is open . 
If you feel that you can come to the table , it is open to you . 
'' And this is the form which he still uses . 
Conwell bringing his original purpose to pass . 
Some years ago he began wearing a huge diamond , whose size attracted much criticism and caustic comment . 
He never said a word in defense he just kept on wearing the diamond . 
It really bothered me to wear such a glaring big thing , but because I didn't want to hurt the old deacon's feelings I kept on wearing it until he was dead . 
Then I stopped wearing it . 
'' The ambition of Russell Conwell is to continue working and working until the very last moment of his life . 
In work he forgets his sadness , his loneliness , his age . 
And he said to me one day , I will die in harness . 
'' IX THE STORY OF ACRES OF DIAMONDS CONSIDERING everything , the most remarkable thing in Russell Conwell's remarkable life is his lecture , Acres of Diamonds . 
In the circumstances surrounding Acres of Diamonds , '' in its tremendous success , in the attitude of mind revealed by the lecture itself and by what Dr . 
Conwell does with it , it is illuminative of his character , his aims , his ability . 
The lecture is vibrant with his energy . 
It flashes with his hopefulness . 
It is full of his enthusiasm . 
It is packed full of his intensity . 
It stands for the possibilities of success in every one . 
He has delivered it over five thousand times . 
The demand for it never diminishes . 
The success grows never less . 
There is a time in Russell Conwell's youth of which it is pain for him to think . 
He told me of it one evening , and his voice sank lower and lower as he went far back into the past . 
It was of his days at Yale that he spoke , for they were days of suffering . 
For he had not money for Yale , and in working for more he endured bitter humiliation . 
It was not that the work was hard , for Russell Conwell has always been ready for hard work . 
It was not that there were privations and difficulties , for he has always found difficulties only things to overcome , and endured privations with cheerful fortitude . 
But it was the humiliations that he met the personal humiliations that after more than half a century make him suffer in remembering them yet out of those humiliations came a marvelous result . 
I determined , '' he says , that whatever I could do to make the way easier at college for other young men working their way I would do . 
'' And so , many years ago , he began to devote every dollar that he made from Acres of Diamonds'' to this definite purpose . 
He has what may be termed a waiting list . 
On that list are very few cases he has looked into personally . 
Infinitely busy man that he is , he cannot do extensive personal investigation . 
A large proportion of his names come to him from college presidents who know of students in their own colleges in need of such a helping hand . 
I feel strongly , and I try to make every young man feel , that there must be no sense of obligation to me personally . 
And I tell them that I am hoping to leave behind me men who will do more work than I have done . 
'' His face lighted as he spoke . 
There is such a fascination in it ! '' he exclaimed . 
But I want to save him from bitterness , and each check will help . 
But it is mainly , '' he went on , that I do not wish to hold over their heads the sense of obligation . 
The bread returns in the sense of effort made . 
Conwell , eagerly brought his wife to join him in most fervent thanks for his assistance . 
Both the husband and his wife were so emotionally overcome that it quite overcame Dr . 
The lecture , to quote the noble words of Dr . 
Conwell himself , is designed to help every person , of either sex , who cherishes the high resolve of sustaining a career of usefulness and honor . 
'' It is a lecture of helpfulness . 
And it is a lecture , when given with Conwell's voice and face and manner , that is full of fascination . 
And yet it is all so simple ! It is packed full of inspiration , of suggestion , of aid . 
He alters it to meet the local circumstances of the thousands of different places in which he delivers it . 
But the base remains the same . 
And even those to whom it is an old story will go to hear him time after time . 
It amuses him to say that he knows individuals who have listened to it twenty times . 
He has the faculty of control , the vital quality that makes the orator . 
The same people will go to hear this lecture over and over , and that is the kind of tribute that Conwell likes . 
And the people were swept along by the current as if lecturer and lecture were of novel interest . 
The lecture in itself is good to read , but it is only when it is illumined by Conwell's vivid personality that one understands how it influences in the actual delivery . 
So I went over from there I was , a few miles away . 
Many had come from miles away . 
Yet the lecture had scarcely , if at all , been advertised . 
But people had said to one another Aren't you going to hear Dr . 
Conwell ? '' And the word had thus been passed along . 
I remember how fascinating it was to watch that audience , for they responded so keenly and with such heartfelt pleasure throughout the entire lecture . 
Over and over one realizes what a power such a man wields . 
Always he talks with ease and sympathy . 
There are geniality , composure , humor , simple and homely jests yet never does the audience forget that he is every moment in tremendous earnest . 
They bubble with responsive laughter or are silent in riveted attention . 
A stir can be seen to sweep over an audience , of earnestness or surprise or amusement or resolve . 
Myriad successes in life have come through the direct inspiration of this single lecture . 
One hears of so many that there must be vastly more that are never told . 
A few of the most recent were told me by Dr . 
Conwell himself , one being of a farmer boy who walked a long distance to hear him . 
He knew he did not know enough to teach , but was sure he could learn , so he bravely asked for the place . 
And something in his earnestness made him win a temporary appointment . 
Thereupon he worked and studied so hard and so devotedly , while he daily taught , that within a few months he was regularly employed there . 
'' And very recently a lady came to Dr . 
And she is making money . 
Always his heart is with the weary and the heavy laden . 
Always he stands for self betterment . 
Last year , , he and his work were given unique recognition . 
Conwell agreed to deliver it in the Academy of Music , in Philadelphia , and the building was packed and the streets outside were thronged . 
The proceeds from all sources for that five thousandth lecture were over nine thousand dollars . 
The Governor of Pennsylvania was himself present to do Russell Conwell honor , and he gave to him a key emblematic of the Freedom of the State . 
The Freedom of the State'' yes this man , well over seventy , has won it . 
It does not seem possible that any will care to read so plain and uneventful a tale . 
I see nothing in it for boasting , nor much that could be helpful . 
I have ever felt that the writers concerning my life were too generous and that my own work was too hastily done . 
Hence I have nothing upon which to base an autobiographical account , except the recollections which come to an overburdened mind . 
The realities are like dreams to me . 
Fifty years ! I was a young man , not yet of age , when I delivered my first platform lecture . 
The Civil War of drew on with all its passions , patriotism , horrors , and fears , and I was studying law at Yale University . 
I had from childhood felt that I was called to the ministry . 
It filled me with awe , dread , and fear , and I recoiled from the thought , until I determined to fight against it with all my power . 
So I sought for other professions and for decent excuses for being anything but a preacher . 
That matchless temperance orator and loving friend , John B. Gough , introduced me to the little audience in Westfield , Massachusetts , in . 
From that time I acted on Mr. Gough's advice and sought practice'' by accepting almost every invitation I received to speak on any kind of a subject . 
There were many sad failures and tears , but it was a restful compromise with my conscience concerning the ministry , and it pleased my friends . 
I addressed picnics , Sunday schools , patriotic meetings , funerals , anniversaries , commencements , debates , cattle shows , and sewing circles without partiality and without price . 
For the first five years the income was all experience . 
In the last thirty six years I have dedicated solemnly all the lecture income to benevolent enterprises . 
It was a remarkable good fortune which came to me as a lecturer when Mr. James Redpath organized the first lecture bureau ever established . 
That acquaintance with Mr. Redpath was maintained until Mr. Redpath's death . 
I cannot forget how ashamed I felt when my name ap peared in the shadow of such names , and how sure I was that every acquaintance was ridiculing me behind my back . 
Mr. Bayard Taylor , however , wrote me from the Tribune office a kind note saying that he was glad to see me on the road to great usefulness . 
'' Governor Clafflin , of Massachusetts , took the time to send me a note of congratulation . 
General Benjamin F. Butler , however , advised me to stick to the last'' and be a good lawyer . 
The work of lecturing was always a task and a duty . 
I do not feel now that I ever sought to be an entertainer . 
I had become so associated with the lecture platform in America and England that I could not feel justified in abandoning so great a field of usefulness . 
The experiences of all our successful lecturers are probably nearly alike . 
The way is not always smooth . 
Often have I been asked if I did not , in fifty years of travel in all sorts of conveyances , meet with accidents . 
It is a marvel to me that no such event ever brought me harm . 
In a continuous period of over twenty seven years I delivered about two lectures in every three days , yet I did not miss a single engagement . 
Sometimes I had to hire a special train , but I reached the town on time , with only a rare exception , and then I was but a few minutes late . 
Accidents have preceded and followed me on trains and boats , and were sometimes in sight , but I was preserved without injury through all the years . 
In the Johnstown flood region I saw a bridge go out behind our train . 
I was once on a derelict steamer on the Atlantic for twenty six days . 
At another time a man was killed in the berth of a sleeper I had left half an hour before . 
Often have I felt the train leave the track , but no one was killed . 
Robbers have several times threatened my life , but all came out without loss to me . 
God and man have ever been patient with me . 
Yet this period of lecturing has been , after all , a side issue . 
The faithful , self sacrificing faculty , now numbering two hundred and fifty three professors , have done the real work . 
For that I can claim but little credit and I mention the University here only to show that my fifty years on the lecture platform'' has necessarily been a side line of work . 
What is the secret of its popularity ? '' I could never explain to myself or others . 
