Walk right in ! he called out to the journalist , whom he caught sight of through the door of the counting room . 
Sit down ! I'll he with you in just half a minute . 
Take your time , said Bartley , with the ease he instantly felt . 
He took a note book from his pocket , laid it on his knee , and began to sharpen a pencil . 
There ! Lapham pounded with his great hairy fist on the envelope he had been addressing . 
William ! he called out , and he handed the letter to a boy who came to get it . 
I want that to go right away . 
Your money or your life . 
I guess you wouldn't want my life without the money , said Lapham , as if he were willing to prolong these moments of preparation . 
Take 'em both , Bartley suggested . 
Don't want your money without your life , if you come to that . 
But you're just one million times more interesting to the public than if you hadn't a dollar and you know that as well as I do , Mr. Lapham . 
There 's no use beating about the bush . 
No , said Lapham , somewhat absently . 
He put out his huge foot and pushed the ground glass door shut between his little den and the book keepers , in their larger den outside . 
He has a square , bold chin , only partially concealed by the short reddish grey beard , growing to the edges of his firmly closing lips . 
His head droops somewhat from a short neck , which does not trouble itself to rise far from a pair of massive shoulders . 
I don't know as I know just where you want me to begin , said Lapham . 
Might begin with your birth that's where most of us begin , replied Bartley . 
A gleam of humorous appreciation shot into Lapham's blue eyes . 
I didn't know whether you wanted me to go quite so far back as that , he said . 
Regulation thing , said Lapham , accepting this irreverent version of his history somewhat dryly . 
Parents poor , of course , suggested the journalist . 
Lapham looked at him silently , and then said with quiet self respect , I guess if you see these things as a joke , my life won't interest you . 
Oh yes , it will , returned Bartley , unabashed . 
You'll see it'll come out all right . 
And in fact it did so , in the interview which Bartley printed . 
Bartley could not deny himself this gibe but he trusted to Lapham's unliterary habit of mind for his security in making it , and most other people would consider it sincere reporter's rhetoric . 
You know , he explained to Lapham , that we have to look at all these facts as material , and we get the habit of classifying them . 
Sometimes a leading question will draw out a whole line of facts that a man himself would never think of . 
He went on to put several queries , and it was from Lapham's answers that he generalised the history of his childhood . 
Mr. Lapham , although he did not dwell on his boyish trials and struggles , spoke of them with deep feeling and an abiding sense of their reality . 
Why , my mother he stopped . 
It gives me a lump in the throat , he said apologetically , with an attempt at a laugh . 
But I suppose she did . 
She got time to go to church , and to teach us to read the Bible , and to misunderstand it in the old way . 
There were six of us boys it seems to me we were all of a size and she was just so careful with all of us . 
I can feel her hands on my feet yet ! Bartley looked at Lapham's No. boots , and softly whistled through his teeth . 
We were patched all over but we wa'n't ragged . 
I don't know how she got through it . 
She didn't seem to think it was anything and I guess it was no more than my father expected of her . 
HE worked like a horse in doors and out up at daylight , feeding the stock , and groaning round all day with his rheumatism , but not stopping . 
I could paint it out for 'em . 
Bartley saw his opportunity at the word paint , and cut in . 
And you say , Mr. Lapham , that you discovered this mineral paint on the old farm yourself ? Lapham acquiesced in the return to business . 
I didn't discover it , he said scrupulously . 
My father found it one day , in a hole made by a tree blowing down . 
There it was , lying loose in the pit , and sticking to the roots that had pulled up a big , cake of dirt with 'em . 
I don't know what give him the idea that there was money in it , but he did think so from the start . 
I guess , if they'd had the word in those days , they'd considered him pretty much of a crank about it . 
He was trying as long as he lived to get that paint introduced but he couldn't make it go . 
The country was so poor they couldn't paint their houses with anything and father hadn't any facilities . 
Well , said Lapham , as if unwilling to give himself too much credit , there wouldn't been any market for it , anyway . 
You can go through that part of the State and buy more farms than you can shake a stick at for less money than it cost to build the barns on 'em . 
Of course , it's turned out a good thing . 
I keep the old house up in good shape , and we spend a month or so there every summer . 
M' wife kind of likes it , and the girls . 
Pretty place sightly all round it . 
I've got a force of men at work there the whole time , and I've got a man and his wife in the house . 
Had a family meeting there last year the whole connection from out West . 
There we are , ALL of us . 
I don't need to look twice at YOU , said Bartley , putting his finger on one of the heads . 
Well , that's Bill , said Lapham , with a gratified laugh . 
He's about as brainy as any of us , I guess . 
He's one of their leading lawyers , out Dubuque way been judge of the Common Pleas once or twice . 
That's his son just graduated at Yale alongside of my youngest girl . 
Good looking chap , ain't he ? SHE'S a good looking chap , said Bartley , with prompt irreverence . 
She is good , said the father , relenting . 
And , after all , that's about the best thing in a woman , said the potential reprobate . 
If my wife wasn't good enough to keep both of us straight , I don't know what would become of me . 
My other daughter , said Lapham , indicating a girl with eyes that showed large , and a face of singular gravity . 
Mis' Lapham , he continued , touching his wife's effigy with his little finger . 
My brother Willard and his family farm at Kankakee . 
Hazard Lapham and his wife Baptist preacher in Kansas . 
Jim and his three girls milling business at Minneapolis . 
Ben and his family practising medicine in Fort Wayne . 
He had put them into awkward and constrained attitudes , of course and they all looked as if they had the instrument of torture which photographers call a head rest under their occiputs . 
It was the standard family group photograph , in which most Americans have figured at some time or other and Lapham exhibited a just satisfaction in it . 
I presume , he mused aloud , as he put it back on top of his desk , that we sha'n't soon get together again , all of us . 
Texas was all the cry in those days . 
But I got enough of the Lone Star in about three months , and I come back with the idea that Vermont was good enough for me . 
Fatted calf business ? queried Bartley , with his pencil poised above his note book . 
I presume they were glad to see me , said Lapham , with dignity . 
Mother , he added gently , died that winter , and I stayed on with father . 
I buried him in the spring and then I came down to a little place called Lumberville , and picked up what jobs I could get . 
I worked round at the saw mills , and I was ostler a while at the hotel I always DID like a good horse . 
Well , I WA'N'T exactly a college graduate , and I went to school odd times . 
I got to driving the stage after while , and by and by I BOUGHT the stage and run the business myself . 
Then I hired the tavern stand , and well to make a long story short , then I got married . 
Yes , said Lapham , with pride , I married the school teacher . 
We did pretty well with the hotel , and my wife she was always at me to paint up . 
Well , I put it off , and PUT it off , as a man will , till one day I give in , and says I , 'Well , let's paint up . 
Why , Pert , m'wife's name's Persis , 'I've got a whole paint mine out on the farm . 
Let's go out and look at it . 
M'wife she liked it too . 
There wa'n't any painter by trade in the village , and I mixed it myself . 
Well , sir , that tavern's got that coat of paint on it yet , and it hain't ever had any other , and I don't know's it ever will . 
It made me feel bad , and it took all the pride out my success with the paint , thinking of father . 
Seemed to me I might 'a taken more interest in it when he was by to see but we've got to live and learn . 
She always was just so enthusiastic about things . 
'Well , I guess it ain't any gold mine , Persis , says I 'but I guess it IS a paint mine . 
I'm going to have it analysed , and if it turns out what I think it is , I'm going to work it . 
And if father hadn't had such a long name , I should call it the Nehemiah Lapham Mineral Paint . 
Father found it in , and I tried it in . 
T. X. business , said Bartley . 
Yes , said Lapham , but I hadn't heard of Plantation Bitters then , and I hadn't seen any of the fellow's labels . 
I set to work and I got a man down from Boston and I carried him out to the farm , and he analysed it made a regular Job of it . 
Well , sir , we built a kiln , and we kept a lot of that paint ore red hot for forty eight hours kept the Kanuck and his family up , firing . 
The presence of iron in the ore showed with the magnet from the start and when he came to test it , he found out that it contained about seventy five per cent . 
of the peroxide of iron . 
Lapham pronounced the scientific phrases with a sort of reverent satisfaction , as if awed through his pride by a little lingering uncertainty as to what peroxide was . 
He accented it as if it were purr ox EYED and Bartley had to get him to spell it . 
Well , and what then ? he asked , when he had made a note of the percentage . 
What then ? echoed Lapham . 
Well , then , the fellow set down and told me , 'You've got a paint here , says he , 'that's going to drive every other mineral paint out of the market . 
Says he , 'That paint has got hydraulic cement in it , and it can stand fire and water and acids he named over a lot of things . 
When you've got your arrangements for burning it properly , you're going to have a paint that will stand like the everlasting hills , in every climate under the sun . 
Then he went into a lot of particulars , and I begun to think he was drawing a long bow , and meant to make his bill accordingly . 
Well , I ain't a going to brag up my paint I don't suppose you came here to hear me blow Oh yes , I did , said Bartley . 
Tell all there is to tell , and I can boil it down afterward . 
A man can't make a greater mistake with a reporter than to hold back anything out of modesty . 
It may be the very thing we want to know . 
What we want is the whole truth and more we've got so much modesty of our own that we can temper almost any statement . 
Lapham looked as if he did not quite like this tone , and he resumed a little more quietly . 
Oh , there isn't really very much more to say about the paint itself . 
But you can use it for almost anything where a paint is wanted , inside or out . 
It'll prevent decay , and it'll stop it , after it's begun , in tin or iron . 
You can paint the inside of a cistern or a bath tub with it , and water won't hurt it and you can paint a steam boiler with it , and heat won't . 
You can cover a brick wall with it , or a railroad car , or the deck of a steamboat , and you can't do a better thing for either . 
Never tried it on the human conscience , I suppose , suggested Bartley . 
No , sir , replied Lapham gravely . 
I guess you want to keep that as free from paint as you can , if you want much use of it . 
I never cared to try any of it on mine . 
They were labelled and branded as containing each so many pounds of Lapham's Mineral Paint , and each bore the mystic devices , N. L. f . 
We used to put the paint on the market dry , but now we grind every ounce of it in oil very best quality of linseed oil and warrant it . 
We find it gives more satisfaction . 
Now , come back to the office , and I'll show you our fancy brands . 
But he rose and followed the vigorous lead of Lapham back to the office , where the sun of a long summer afternoon was just beginning to glare in at the window . 
That's pretty ! Yes , assented Lapham , it is rather nice . 
It's our latest thing , and we find it takes with customers first rate . 
Look here ! he said , taking down one of the jars , and pointing to the first line of the label . 
Bartley read , THE PERSIS BRAND , and then he looked at Lapham and smiled . 
After HER , of course , said Lapham . 
Got it up and put the first of it on the market her last birthday . 
I should think she might have been , said Bartley , while he made a note of the appearance of the jars . 
I don't know about your mentioning it in your interview , said Lapham dubiously . 
That's going into the interview , Mr. Lapham , if nothing else does . 
Got a wife myself , and I know just how you feel . 
It was in the dawn of Bartley's prosperity on the Boston Events , before his troubles with Marcia had seriously begun . 
Well , he added , we must see about that . 
Where'd you say you lived ? We don't live we board . 
Mrs. Nash , Canary Place . 
Well , we've all got to commence that way , suggested Lapham consolingly . 
Yes but we've about got to the end of our string . 
I expect to be under a roof of my own on Clover Street before long . 
I went right back to Lumberville and sold out everything , and put all I could rake and scrape together into paint . 
And Mis' Lapham was with me every time . 
No hang back about HER . 
I tell you she was a WOMAN ! Bartley laughed . 
That's the sort most of us marry . 
No , we don't , said Lapham . 
Most of us marry silly little girls grown up to LOOK like women . 
Well , I guess that's about so , assented Bartley , as if upon second thought . 
If it hadn't been for her , resumed Lapham , the paint wouldn't have come to anything . 
I used to tell her it wa'n't the seventy five per cent . 
of purr ox eyed of iron in the ORE that made that paint go it was the seventy five per cent . 
of purr ox eyed of iron in HER . 
Bartley had taken his seat on the window sill , and Lapham , standing before him , now put up his huge foot close to Bartley's thigh neither of them minded that . 
So long as the people that own the barns and fences don't object , I don't see what the public has got to do with it . 
There ain't any man enjoys a sightly bit of nature a smooth piece of interval with half a dozen good sized wine glass elms in it more than I do . 
But I ain't a going to stand up for every big ugly rock I come across , as if we were all a set of dumn Druids . 
I say the landscape was made for man , and not man for the landscape . 
Yes , said Bartley carelessly it was made for the stove polish man and the kidney cure man . 
It was made for any man that knows how to use it , Lapham returned , insensible to Bartley's irony . 
Let 'em go and live with nature in the WINTER , up there along the Canada line , and I guess they'll get enough of her for one while . 
Well where was I ? Decorating the landscape , said Bartley . 
Yes , sir I started right there at Lumberville , and it give the place a start too . 
You won't find it on the map now and you won't find it in the gazetteer . 
Isn't it somewhere up in that region that they get the old Brandon red ? asked Bartley . 
We're about ninety miles from Brandon . 
The Brandon's a good paint , said Lapham conscientiously . 
Like to show you round up at our place some odd time , if you get off . 
I should like it first rate . 
WORKS there ? Yes works there . 
Well , sir , just about the time I got started , the war broke out and it knocked my paint higher than a kite . 
The thing dropped perfectly dead . 
But I hadn't , and we had to face the music . 
I was about broken hearted , but m'wife she looked at it another way . 
'I guess it's a providence , says she . 
'Silas , I guess you've got a country that's worth fighting for . 
Any rate , you better go out and give it a chance . 
Well , sir , I went . 
I knew she meant business . 
It might kill her to have me go , but it would kill her sure if I stayed . 
She was one of that kind . 
Her last words was , 'I'll look after the paint , Si . 
I got through and you can call me Colonel , if you want to . 
Feel there ! Lapham took Bartley's thumb and forefinger and put them on a bunch in his leg , just above the knee . 
Anything hard ? Ball ? Lapham nodded . 
If it wa'n't for that , I shouldn't know enough to come in when it rains . 
Bartley laughed at a joke which betrayed some evidences of wear . 
And when you came back , you took hold of the paint and rushed it . 
took hold of the paint and rushed it all I could , said Lapham , with less satisfaction than he had hitherto shown in his autobiography . 
But I found that I had got back to another world . 
The day of small things was past , and I don't suppose it will ever come again in this country . 
My wife was at me all the time to take a partner somebody with capital but I couldn't seem to bear the idea . 
That paint was like my own blood to me . 
To have anybody else concerned in it was like well , I don't know what . 
I saw it was the thing to do but I tried to fight it off , and I tried to joke it off . 
Always DID like a joke about as well as any woman I ever saw . 
Well , I had to come to it . 
He had money enough , continued Lapham , with a suppressed sigh but he didn't know anything about paint . 
We hung on together for a year or two . 
And he had the experience , suggested Bartley , with companionable ease . 
And since that , I suppose , you've played it alone . 
You must ship some of this paint of yours to foreign countries , Colonel ? suggested Bartley , putting on a professional air . 
We ship it to all parts of the world . 
It goes to South America , lots of it . 
It goes to Australia , and it goes to India , and it goes to China , and it goes to the Cape of Good Hope . 
Of course , we don't export these fancy brands much . 
But we're introducing them elsewhere . 
Lapham pulled open a drawer , and showed Bartley a lot of labels in different languages Spanish , French , German , and Italian . 
We expect to do a good business in all those countries . 
We've got our agencies in Cadiz now , and in Paris , and in Hamburg , and in Leghorn . 
It's a thing that's bound to make its way . 
You pass a ton of that paint dry through a blast furnace , and you'll get a quarter of a ton of pig iron . 
I believe in my paint . 
I believe it's a blessing to the world . 
Lapham took out his watch and looked at it , and Bartley perceived that his audience was drawing to a close . 
'F you ever want to run down and take a look at our works , pass you over the road , he called it RUD and it sha'n't cost you a cent . 
Well , may be I shall , sometime , said Bartley . 
Or hold on ! My horse down there yet , William ? he called to the young man in the counting room who had taken his letter at the beginning of the interview . 
Oh ! All right ! he added , in response to something the young man said . 
Can't I set you down somewhere , Mr. Hubbard ? I've got my horse at the door , and I can drop you on my way home . 
I'm going to take Mis' Lapham to look at a house I'm driving piles for , down on the New Land . 
Don't care if I do , said Bartley . 
She was stylishly dressed , as Bartley saw , and her smooth , yellow hair was sculpturesquely waved over a low , white forehead . 
She does her work , said Lapham shortly . 
The air was full of a smell pleasantly compounded of oakum , of leather , and of oil . 
Well ! said Lapham , sympathetically recognising the bond that this fact created between them . 
Well , now , I tell you what you do . 
You let me come for you 'most any afternoon , now , and take you out over the Milldam , and speed this mare a little . 
I'd like to show you what this mare can do . 
All right , answered Bartley I'll let you know my first day off . 
I don't ride behind anything but Vermont never did . 
Touch of Morgan , of course but you can't have much Morgan in a horse if you want speed . 
Where'd you say you wanted to get out ? I guess you may put me down at the Events Office , just round the corner here . 
I've got to write up this interview while it's fresh . 
All right , said Lapham , impersonally assenting to Bartley's use of him as material . 
He had not much to complain of in Bartley's treatment , unless it was the strain of extravagant compliment which it involved . 
He made a very picturesque thing of the discovery of the paint mine . 
His life affords an example of single minded application and unwavering perseverance which our young business men would do well to emulate . 
There is nothing showy or meretricious about the man . 
He believes in mineral paint , and he puts his heart and soul into it . 
He makes it a religion though we would not imply that it IS his religion . 
Colonel Lapham is a regular attendant at the Rev . 
He subscribes liberally to the Associated Charities , and no good object or worthy public enterprise fails to receive his support . 
He is not now actively in politics , and his paint is not partisan but it is an open secret that he is , and always has been , a staunch Republican . 
Without violating the sanctities of private life , we cannot speak fully of various details which came out in the free and unembarrassed interview which Colonel Lapham accorded our representative . 
Of Colonel Lapham's family , we will simply add that it consists of two young lady daughters . 
It will , we believe , be ready for the occupancy of the family sometime in the spring . 
He regularly turned himself inside out to me , he said , as he sat describing his interview to Marcia . 
Then I know you could make something nice out of it , said his wife and that will please Mr. Witherby . 
Oh yes , I've done pretty well but I couldn't let myself loose on him the way I wanted to . 
Confound the limitations of decency , anyway ! I should like to have told just what Colonel Lapham thought of landscape advertising in Colonel Lapham's own words . 
I'll tell you one thing , Marsh he had a girl there at one of the desks that you wouldn't let ME have within gunshot of MY office . 
Hello ! What's that ? Why , I don't know what it is , replied Marcia tremulously . 
A man brought it just before you came in , and I didn't like to open it . 
Think it was some kind of infernal machine ? asked Bartley , getting down on his knees to examine the package . 
B. Hubbard , heigh ? He cut the heavy hemp string with his penknife . 
We must look into this thing . 
I should like to know who's sending packages to Mrs. Hubbard in my absence . 
He unfolded the wrappings of paper , growing softer and finer inward , and presently pulled out a handsome square glass jar , through which a crimson mass showed richly . 
The Persis Brand ! he yelled . 
I knew it ! Oh , what is it , Bartley ? quavered Marcia . 
Then , courageously drawing a little nearer Is it some kind of jam ? she implored . 
Jam ? No ! roared Bartley . 
Don't TELL me it's paint that I can use , Bartley ! Well , I shouldn't advise you to use much of it all at once , replied her husband . 
But it's paint that you can use in moderation . 
Marcia cast her arms round his neck and kissed him . 
O Bartley , I think I'm the happiest girl in the world ! I was just wondering what I should do . 
There are places in that Clover Street house that need touching up so dreadfully . 
I shall be very careful . 
You needn't be afraid I shall overdo . 
But , this just saves my life . 
No ! The old fool's sent it to you as a present . 
You'd better wait for the facts before you pitch into me for extravagance , Marcia . 
Persis is the name of his wife and he named it after her because it's his finest brand . 
You'll see it in my interview . 
Put it on the market her last birthday for a surprise to her . 
What old fool ? faltered Marcia . 
Why , Lapham the mineral paint man . 
Oh , what a good man ! sighed Marcia from the bottom of her soul . 
Mrs. Lapham was even better satisfied with their bargain than the Colonel himself , and they had lived in Nankeen Square for twelve years . 
They were people whom chance had brought for the time under a singular obligation to the Lapham ladies , and they were gratefully recognisant of it . 
They had ventured a mother and two daughters as far as a rather wild little Canadian watering place on the St . 
Lawrence , below Quebec , and had arrived some days before their son and brother was expected to join them . 
Two of their trunks had gone astray , and on the night of their arrival the mother was taken violently ill . 
Mrs. Lapham came to their help , with her skill as nurse , and with the abundance of her own and her daughter's wardrobe , and a profuse , single hearted kindness . 
When a doctor could be got at , he said that but for Mrs. Lapham's timely care , the lady would hardly have lived . 
He was a very effusive little Frenchman , and fancied he was saying something very pleasant to everybody . 
A certain intimacy inevitably followed , and when the son came he was even more grateful than the others . 
She had not the means of a wider comparison for in Boston , with all her husband's prosperity , they had not had a social life . 
Their first years there were given to careful getting on Lapham's part , and careful saving on his wife's . 
Suddenly the money began to come so abundantly that she need not save and then they did not know what to do with it . 
A certain amount could be spent on horses , and Lapham spent it his wife spent on rich and rather ugly clothes and a luxury of household appointments . 
Up to a certain period Mrs. Lapham had the ladies of her neighbourhood in to tea , as her mother had done in the country in her younger days . 
Lapham's idea of hospitality was still to bring a heavy buying customer home to pot luck neither of them imagined dinners . 
His wife was of a different mind she would have liked them to go to some private school for their finishing . 
It ended in their going part of a year . 
They were not girls who embroidered or abandoned themselves to needle work . 
Irene dressed herself very stylishly , and spent hours on her toilet every day . 
Her sister had a simpler taste , and , if she had done altogether as she liked , might even have slighted dress . 
They all three took long naps every day , and sat hours together minutely discussing what they saw out of the window . 
She could make fun of nearly everything Irene complained that she scared away the young men whom they got acquainted with at the dancing school sociables . 
They were , perhaps , not the wisest young men . 
The girls had learned to dance at Papanti's but they had not belonged to the private classes . 
They did not even know of them , and a great gulf divided them from those who did . 
Their father did not like company , except such as came informally in their way and their mother had remained too rustic to know how to attract it in the sophisticated city fashion . 
They lurked helplessly about in the hotel parlours , looking on and not knowing how to put themselves forward . 
Perhaps they did not care a great deal to do so . 
They had not a conceit of themselves , but a sort of content in their own ways that one may notice in certain families . 
The elder daughter did not care for society , apparently . 
The younger , who was but three years younger , was not yet quite old enough to be ambitious of it . 
With all her wonderful beauty , she had an innocence almost vegetable . 
Paul , she had scarcely lived a detached , individual life , so wholly had she depended on her mother and her sister for her opinions , almost her sensations . 
When Mrs. Lapham returned home , she submitted all the accumulated facts of the case , and all her own conjectures , to her husband , and canvassed them anew . 
At first he was disposed to regard the whole affair as of small importance , and she had to insist a little beyond her own convictions in order to counteract his indifference . 
Well , I can tell you , she said , that if you think they were not the nicest people you ever saw , you're mightily mistaken . 
They had about the best manners and they had been everywhere , and knew everything . 
I declare it made me feel as if we had always lived in the backwoods . 
Seem struck up on Irene ? asked the Colonel . 
How can I tell ? He seemed just about as much struck up on me . 
Anyway , he paid me as much attention as he did her . 
Perhaps it's more the way , now , to notice the mother than it used to be . 
Lapham ventured no conjecture , but asked , as he had asked already , who the people were . 
Mrs. Lapham repeated their name . 
Do you know them ? What business is he in ? I guess he ain't in anything , said Lapham . 
They were very nice , said Mrs. Lapham impartially . 
Well , they'd ought to be , returned the Colonel . 
They didn't seem stuck up , urged his wife . 
They'd no need to with you . 
I could buy him and sell him , twice over . 
This answer satisfied Mrs. Lapham rather with the fact than with her husband . 
Well , I guess I wouldn't brag , Silas , she said . 
In the winter the ladies of this family , who returned to town very late , came to call on Mrs. Lapham . 
They were again very polite . 
But the mother let drop , in apology for their calling almost at nightfall , that the coachman had not known the way exactly . 
Nearly all our friends are on the New Land or on the Hill . 
They said they had never been in this part of the town before . 
Oh , well , of course , said Lapham , to whom these facts were referred . 
Those sort of people haven't got much business up our way , and they don't come . 
It's a fair thing all round . 
We don't trouble the Hill or the New Land much . 
We know where they are , suggested his wife thoughtfully . 
Yes , assented the Colonel . 
I know where they are . 
I've got a lot of land over on the Back Bay . 
You have ? eagerly demanded his wife . 
Want me to build on it ? he asked in reply , with a quizzical smile . 
I guess we can get along here for a while . 
In the morning Mrs. Lapham said I suppose we ought to do the best we can for the children , in every way . 
I supposed we always had , replied her husband . 
Yes , we have , according to our light . 
Have you got some new light ? I don't know as it's light . 
Well , who's ever done more for their children than we have ? demanded Lapham , with a pang at the thought that he could possibly have been out done . 
Why don't you get them into society ? There's money enough ! There's got to be something besides money , I guess , said Mrs. Lapham , with a hopeless sigh . 
I presume we didn't go to work just the right way about their schooling . 
We ought to have got them into some school where they'd have got acquainted with city girls girls who could help them along . 
Nearly everybody at Miss Smillie's was from some where else . 
Well , it's pretty late to think about that now , grumbled Lapham . 
And we've always gone our own way , and not looked out for the future . 
We ought to have gone out more , and had people come to the house . 
Well , is that my fault ? I guess nobody ever makes people welcomer . 
We ought to have invited company more . 
Why don't you do it now ? If it's for the girls , I don't care if you have the house full all the while . 
Mrs. Lapham was forced to a confession full of humiliation . 
I don't know who to ask . 
Well , you can't expect me to tell you . 
No we're both country people , and we've kept our country ways , and we don't , either of us , know what to do . 
As long as it was Pen that didn't seem to care for society , I didn't give much mind to it . 
But I can see it's going to be different with Irene . 
I don't believe but what we're in the wrong neighbourhood . 
Well , said the Colonel , there ain't a prettier lot on the Back Bay than mine . 
It's on the water side of Beacon , and it's twenty eight feet wide and a hundred and fifty deep . 
Mrs. Lapham was silent a while . 
No , she said finally we've always got along well enough here , and I guess we better stay . 
At breakfast she said casually Girls , how would you like to have your father build on the New Land ? The girls said they did not know . 
It was more convenient to the horse cars where they were . 
Mrs. Lapham stole a look of relief at her husband , and nothing more was said of the matter . 
She decided finally upon this measure , and she had the relief of not finding the family at home . 
As far as she could judge , Irene seemed to suffer a little disappointment from the fact . 
For several months there was no communication between the families . 
She submitted it to her husband , who promptly drew a cheque for five hundred dollars . 
She tore it in two . 
I will take a cheque for a hundred , Silas , she said . 
Why ? he asked , looking up guiltily at her . 
Because a hundred is enough and I don't want to show off before them . 
Oh , I thought may be you did . 
Well , Pert , he added , having satisfied human nature by the preliminary thrust , I guess you're about right . 
I don't want you should begin at all . 
What do you mean , Silas ? She rested against the side of his desk . 
Well , I don't know as I mean anything . 
But shouldn't you like to build ? Everybody builds , at least once in a lifetime . 
Where is your lot ? They say it's unhealthy , over there . 
He came and went , day by day , unquestioned . 
He bought and sold and got gain . 
She knew that he would tell her if ever things went wrong , and he knew that she would ask him whenever she was anxious . 
It ain't unhealthy where I've bought , said Lapham , rather enjoying her insinuation . 
I looked after that when I was trading and I guess it's about as healthy on the Back Bay as it is here , anyway . 
I got that lot for you , Pert I thought you'd want to build on the Back Bay some day . 
Pshaw ! said Mrs. Lapham , deeply pleased inwardly , but not going to show it , as she would have said . 
I guess you want to build there yourself . 
She insensibly got a little nearer to her husband . 
They liked to talk to each other in that blunt way it is the New England way of expressing perfect confidence and tenderness . 
Well , I guess I do , said Lapham , not insisting upon the unselfish view of the matter . 
I always did like the water side of Beacon . 
There ain't a sightlier place in the world for a house . 
I've had offers for that lot , Pert , twice over what I give for it . 
She sighed anxiously , for she felt the trouble a woman knows in view of any great change . 
I wish you had sold that lot . 
I hain't , said the colonel briefly . 
I don't know as I feel much like changing our way of living . 
Guess we could live there pretty much as we live here . 
There's all kinds of people on Beacon Street you mustn't think they're all big bugs . 
I know one party that lives in a house he built to sell , and his wife don't keep any girl . 
You can have just as much style there as you want , or just as little . 
I guess we live as well as most of 'em now , and set as good a table . 
And if you come to style , I don't know as anybody has got more of a right to put it on than what we have . 
Well , I don't want to build on Beacon Street , Si , said Mrs. Lapham gently . 
Just as you please , Persis . 
I ain't in any hurry to leave . 
Mrs. Lapham stood flapping the cheque which she held in her right hand against the edge of her left . 
The Colonel still sat looking up at her face , and watching the effect of the poison of ambition which he had artfully instilled into her mind . 
She sighed again a yielding sigh . 
What are you going to do this afternoon ? I'm going to take a turn on the Brighton road , said the Colonel . 
I don't believe but what I should like to go along , said his wife . 
You hain't ever rode behind that mare yet , Pert , and I want you should see me let her out once . 
They say the snow's all packed down already , and the going is A . 
Gay , ain't she ? proudly suggested the Colonel . 
She IS gay , assented his wife . 
They met swiftly dashing sleighs , and let them pass on either hand , down the beautiful avenue narrowing with an admirably even sky line in the perspective . 
They were not in a hurry . 
The mare jounced easily along , and they talked of the different houses on either side of the way . 
They had a crude taste in architecture , and they admired the worst . 
I don't think our girls would look very bad behind one of those big panes , said the Colonel . 
No , said his wife dreamily . 
Where's the YOUNG man ? Did he come with them ? No he was to spend the winter with a friend of his that has a ranch in Texas . 
I guess he's got to do something . 
Yes gentlemaning as a profession has got to play out in a generation or two . 
Neither of them spoke of the lot , though Lapham knew perfectly well what his wife had come with him for , and she was aware that he knew it . 
Yes , it's sightly , said Mrs. Lapham , lifting her hand from the reins , on which she had unconsciously laid it . 
Lapham said nothing , but he let the mare out a little . 
The sleighs and cutters were thickening round them . 
On the Milldam it became difficult to restrict the mare to the long , slow trot into which he let her break . 
The beautiful landscape widened to right and left of them , with the sunset redder and redder , over the low , irregular hills before them . 
They crossed the Milldam into Longwood and here , from the crest of the first upland , stretched two endless lines , in which thousands of cutters went and came . 
Some of the drivers were already speeding their horses , and these shot to and fro on inner lines , between the slowly moving vehicles on either side of the road . 
It was what Bartley Hubbard called a carnival of fashion and gaiety on the Brighton road , in his account of it . 
At a certain point the Colonel said , I'm going to let her out , Pert , and he lifted and then dropped the reins lightly on the mare's back . 
She understood the signal , and , as an admirer said , she laid down to her work . 
Nothing in the immutable iron of Lapham's face betrayed his sense of triumph as the mare left everything behind her on the road . 
At the end of the heat Lapham drew her in , and turned off on a side street into Brookline . 
All right , Silas , said Mrs. Lapham I suppose you know what you're about . 
Don't build on it for me , that's all . 
Did he speed her ? asked Penelope , the elder . 
Penelope was the girl whose odd serious face had struck Bartley Hubbard in the photograph of the family group Lapham showed him on the day of the interview . 
Her large eyes , like her hair , were brown they had the peculiar look of near sighted eyes which is called mooning her complexion was of a dark pallor . 
Her mother did not reply to a question which might be considered already answered . 
He says he's going to build on that lot of his , she net remarked , unwinding the long veil which she had tied round her neck to hold her bonnet on . 
The women dined alone at one , and the Colonel at the same hour down town . 
But he liked a good hot meal when he got home in the evening . 
The house flared with gas and the Colonel , before he sat down , went about shutting the registers , through which a welding heat came voluming up from the furnace . 
I'll be the death of that darkey YET , he said , if he don't stop making on such a fire . 
The only way to get any comfort out of your furnace is to take care of it yourself . 
Well , answered his wife from behind the teapot , as he sat down at table with this threat , there's nothing to prevent you , Si . 
And you can shovel the snow too , if you want to till you get over to Beacon Street , anyway . 
I guess I can keep my own sidewalk on Beacon Street clean , if I take the notion . 
I should like to see you at it , retorted his wife . 
Well , you keep a sharp lookout , and may be you will . 
Their taunts were really expressions of affectionate pride in each other . 
They liked to have it , give and take , that way , as they would have said , right along . 
A man can be a man on Beacon Street as well as anywhere , I guess . 
Well , I'll do the wash , as I used to in Lumberville , said Mrs. Lapham . 
I presume you'll let me have set tubs , Si . 
You know I ain't so young any more . 
She passed Irene a cup of Oolong tea , none of them had a sufficiently cultivated palate for Sou chong , and the girl handed it to her father . 
Papa , she asked , you don't really mean that you're going to build over there ? Don't I ? You wait and see , said the Colonel , stirring his tea . 
I don't believe you do , pursued the girl . 
Is that so ? I presume you'd hate to have me . 
He said DOOS , of course . 
I go in for it . 
I don't see any use in not enjoying money , if you've got it to enjoy . 
That's what it's for , I suppose though you mightn't always think so . 
I guess the ayes has it , Pen , said her father . 
How would it do to let Irene and your mother stick in the old place here , and us go into the new house ? At times the Colonel's grammar failed him . 
The matter dropped , and the Laphams lived on as before , with joking recurrences to the house on the water side of Beacon . 
The Colonel seemed less in earnest than any of them about it but that was his way , his girls said you never could tell when he really meant a thing . 
Loring G. Stanton , which the representative of the journal had visited . 
It must be his friend , said Mrs. Lapham , to whom her daughter brought the paper the one he's staying with . 
The girl did not say anything , but she carried the paper to her room , where she scanned every line of it for another name . 
Her sister often read it aloud , standing behind her and rendering it with elocutionary effects . 
The first time I ever heard of a love letter in the form of a puff to a cattle ranch . 
But perhaps that's the style on the Hill . 
Mrs. Lapham told her husband of the arrival of the paper , treating the fact with an importance that he refused to see in it . 
How do you know the fellow sent it , anyway ? he demanded . 
Oh , I know he did . 
I don't see why he couldn't write to 'Rene , if he really meant anything . 
Well , I guess that wouldn't be their way , said Mrs. Lapham she did not at all know what their way would be . 
When the spring opened Colonel Lapham showed that he had been in earnest about building on the New Land . 
His idea of a house was a brown stone front , four stories high , and a French roof with an air chamber above . 
Inside , there was to be a reception room on the street and a dining room back . 
The parlours were to be on the second floor , and finished in black walnut or party coloured paint . 
The chambers were to be on the three floors above , front and rear , with side rooms over the front door . 
Black walnut was to be used everywhere except in the attic , which was to be painted and grained to look like black walnut . 
The whole was to be very high studded , and there were to be handsome cornices and elaborate centre pieces throughout , except , again , in the attic . 
These ideas he had formed from the inspection of many new buildings which he had seen going up , and which he had a passion for looking into . 
The beginnings of the process by which Lapham escaped from the master builder and ended in the hands of an architect are so obscure that it would be almost impossible to trace them . 
But it all happened , and Lapham promptly developed his ideas of black walnut finish , high studding , and cornices . 
The architect was able to conceal the shudder which they must have sent through him . 
He was skilful , as nearly all architects are , in playing upon that simple instrument Man . 
He began to touch Colonel Lapham's stops . 
Oh , certainly , have the parlours high studded . 
But you've seen some of those pretty old fashioned country houses , haven't you , where the entrance story is very low studded ? Yes , Lapham assented . 
I'm sure Mrs. Lapham would find it much pleasanter . 
The architect caught toward him a scrap of paper lying on the table at which they were sitting and sketched his idea . 
Then have your dining room behind the hall , looking on the water . 
That's so ! said Mrs. Lapham . 
Her husband merely made a noise in his throat . 
Then , were you thinking of having your parlours together , connected by folding doors ? asked the architect deferentially . 
Yes , of course , said Lapham . 
They're always so , ain't they ? Well , nearly , said the architect . 
First rate ! she cried . 
I guess that would do . 
It'll be kind of odd , won't it ? Well , I don't know , said the architect . 
Not so odd , I hope , as the other thing will be a few years from now . 
I presume , he said , you'll have the drawing room finished in black walnut ? Well , yes , replied the architect , if you like . 
But some less expensive wood can be made just as effective with paint . 
Of course you can paint black walnut too . 
Paint it ? gasped the Colonel . 
Yes , said the architect quietly . 
White , or a little off white . 
Lapham dropped the plan he had picked up from the table . 
His wife made a little move toward him of consolation or support . 
Of course , resumed the architect , I know there has been a great craze for black walnut . 
But it's an ugly wood and for a drawing room there is really nothing like white paint . 
We should want to introduce a little gold here and there . 
Perhaps we might run a painted frieze round under the cornice garlands of roses on a gold ground it would tell wonderfully in a white room . 
The Colonel returned less courageously to the charge . 
I presume you'll want Eastlake mantel shelves and tiles ? He meant this for a sarcastic thrust at a prevailing foible of the profession . 
Well , no , gently answered the architect . 
I was thinking perhaps a white marble chimney piece , treated in the refined Empire style , would be the thing for that room . 
White marble ! exclaimed the Colonel . 
I thought that had gone out long ago . 
Really beautiful things can't go out . 
They may disappear for a little while , but they must come back . 
It's only the ugly things that stay out after they've had their day . 
Lapham could only venture very modestly , Hard wood floors ? In the music room , of course , consented the architect . 
And in the drawing room ? Carpet . 
Some sort of moquette , I should say . 
But I should prefer to consult Mrs. Lapham's taste in that matter . 
And in the other rooms ? Oh , carpets , of course . 
And what about the stairs ? Carpet . 
And I should have the rail and banisters white banisters turned or twisted . 
The Colonel said under his breath , Well , I'm dumned ! but he gave no utterance to his astonishment in the architect's presence . 
I wonder what the Ongpeer style is ? I don't know . 
But he seemed to understand what he was talking about . 
I declare , he knows what a woman wants in a house better than she does herself . 
And a man's simply nowhere in comparison , said Lapham . 
and owned him now , and the fellow did nothing to disturb this impression . 
He entered into that brief but intense intimacy with the Laphams which the sympathetic architect holds with his clients . 
He was privy to all their differences of opinion and all their disputes about the house . 
He knew just where to insist upon his own ideas , and where to yield . 
He was really building several other houses , but he gave the Laphams the impression that he was doing none but theirs . 
The work was not begun till the frost was thoroughly out of the ground , which that year was not before the end of April . 
Even then it did not proceed very rapidly . 
The neighbourhood smelt like the hold of a ship after a three years' voyage . 
Nothing gave Lapham so much satisfaction in the whole construction of his house as the pile driving . 
He was a tallish , thin man , with a dust coloured face , and a dead , clerical air , which somehow suggested at once feebleness and tenacity . 
Mrs. Lapham held out her hand to him . 
Why , Mr. Rogers ! she exclaimed and then , turning toward her husband , seemed to refer the two men to each other . 
They shook hands , but Lapham did not speak . 
I didn't know you were in Boston , pursued Mrs. Lapham . 
Is Mrs. Rogers with you ? No , said Mr. Rogers , with a voice which had the flat , succinct sound of two pieces of wood clapped together . 
Mrs. Rogers is still in Chicago A little silence followed , and then Mrs Lapham said I presume you are quite settled out there . 
No we have left Chicago . 
Mrs. Rogers has merely remained to finish up a little packing . 
Oh , indeed ! Are you coming back to Boston ? I cannot say as yet . 
We some think of so doing . 
Lapham turned away and looked up at the building . 
His wife pulled a little at her glove , as if embarrassed , or even pained . 
She tried to make a diversion . 
We are building a house , she said , with a meaningless laugh . 
Oh , indeed , said Mr. Rogers , looking up at it . 
Then no one spoke again , and she said helplessly If you come to Boston , I hope I shall see Mrs. Rogers . 
She will be happy to have you call , said Mr Rogers . 
He touched his hat brim , and made a bow forward rather than in Mrs. Lapham's direction . 
She mounted the planking that led into the shelter of the bare brick walls , and her husband slowly followed . 
When she turned her face toward him her cheeks were burning , and tears that looked hot stood in her eyes . 
You left it all to me ! she cried . 
Why couldn't you speak a word ? I hadn't anything to say to him , replied Lapham sullenly . 
They stood a while , without looking at the work which they had come to enjoy , and without speaking to each other . 
I suppose we might as well go on , said Mrs. Lapham at last , as they returned to the buggy . 
The Colonel drove recklessly toward the Milldam . 
His wife kept her veil down and her face turned from him . 
After a time she put her handkerchief up under her veil and wiped her eyes , and he set his teeth and squared his jaw . 
I don't see how he always manages to appear just at the moment when he seems to have gone fairly out of our lives , and blight everything , she whimpered . 
I supposed he was dead , said Lapham . 
Oh , don't SAY such a thing ! It sounds as if you wished it . 
Why do you mind it ? What do you let him blight everything for ? I can't help it , and I don't believe I ever shall . 
I don't know as his being dead would help it any . 
I can't ever see him without feeling just as I did at first . 
I tell you , said Lapham , it was a perfectly square thing . 
And I wish , once for all , you would quit bothering about it . 
My conscience is easy as far as he is concerned , and it always was . 
And I can't look at him without feeling as if you'd ruined him , Silas . 
Don't look at him , then , said her husband , with a scowl . 
I want you should recollect in the first place , Persis , that I never wanted a partner . 
If he hadn't put his money in when he did , you'd 'a' broken down . 
Well , he got his money out again , and more , too , said the Colonel , with a sulky weariness . 
He didn't want to take it out . 
I gave him his choice buy out or go out . 
You know he couldn't buy out then . 
It was no choice at all . 
It was a business chance . 
No you had better face the truth , Silas . 
It was no chance at all . 
A man that had saved you ! No , you had got greedy , Silas . 
You had made your paint your god , and you couldn't bear to let anybody else share in its blessings . 
I tell you he was a drag and a brake on me from the word go . 
You say he saved me . 
Well , if I hadn't got him out he'd 'a' ruined me sooner or later . 
So it's an even thing , as far forth as that goes . 
No , it ain't an even thing , and you know it , Silas . 
Oh , if I could only get you once to acknowledge that you did wrong about it , then I should have some hope . 
I don't say you meant wrong exactly , but you took an advantage . 
Yes , you took an advantage ! You had him where he couldn't help himself , and then you wouldn't show him any mercy . 
I'm sick of this , said Lapham . 
If you'll 'tend to the house , I'll manage my business without your help . 
You were very glad of my help once . 
Well , I'm tired of it now . 
When I see you hardening yourself in a wrong thing , it's time for me to meddle , as you call it , and I will . 
I can't ever get you to own up the least bit about Rogers , and I feel as if it was hurting you all the while . 
It's a thing that's done every day . 
I was loaded up with a partner that didn't know anything , and couldn't do anything , and I unloaded that's all . 
You unloaded just at the time when you knew that your paint was going to be worth about twice what it ever had been and you wanted all the advantage for yourself . 
I had a right to it . 
Yes , you made it with Rogers's money and when you'd made it you took his share of it . 
I guess you thought of that when you saw him , and that's why you couldn't look him in the face . 
At these words Lapham lost his temper . 
I guess you don't want to ride with me any more to day , he said , turning the mare abruptly round . 
I'm as ready to go back as what you are , replied his wife . 
And don't you ask me to go to that house with you any more . 
You can sell it , for all me . 
I sha'n't live in it . 
It is certainly a curious spectacle , and doubtless it ought to convince an observer of the divinity of the institution . 
Lapham was proud of his wife , and when he married her it had been a rise in life for him . 
For a while he stood in awe of his good fortune , but this could not last , and he simply remained supremely satisfied with it . 
Their marriage was hallowed by an early sorrow they lost their boy , and it was years before they could look each other in the face and speak of him . 
No one gave up more than they when they gave up each other and Lapham went to the war . 
When he came back and began to work , her zeal and courage formed the spring of his enterprise . 
But Lapham had not created them all . 
He had been dependent at one time on his partner's capital . 
It was a moment of terrible trial . 
Happy is the man for ever after who can choose the ideal , the unselfish part in such an exigency ! Lapham could not rise to it . 
He did what he could maintain to be perfectly fair . 
The wrong , if any , seemed to be condoned to him , except when from time to time his wife brought it up . 
Then all the question stung and burned anew , and had to be reasoned out and put away once more . 
It seemed to have an inextinguishable vitality . 
It slept , but it did not die . 
His course did not shake Mrs. Lapham's faith in him . 
It astonished her at first , and it always grieved her that he could not see that he was acting solely in his own interest . 
But she found excuses for him , which at times she made reproaches . 
She vaguely perceived that his paint was something more than business to him it was a sentiment , almost a passion . 
He could not share its management and its profit with another without a measure of self sacrifice far beyond that which he must make with something less personal to him . 
It was the poetry of that nature , otherwise so intensely prosaic and she understood this , and for the most part forbore . 
With those two there was never anything like an explicit reconciliation . 
I guess we better all go , hadn't we ? Well , I'll see , she said . 
There was not really a great deal to look at when Lapham arrived on the ground in his four seated beach wagon . 
But the walls were up , and the studding had already given skeleton shape to the interior . 
The floors were roughly boarded over , and the stairways were in place , with provisional treads rudely laid . 
Come and take a seat in the bay window , ladies , be called out to them , as they looked in at him through the ribs of the wall . 
He jocosely made room for them on the trestle on which he sat . 
They came gingerly and vaguely forward , as young ladies do when they wish not to seem to be going to do a thing they have made up their minds to do . 
Yes we've heard that story , said Penelope , with easy security of her father's liking what she said . 
We were brought up on that story . 
Well , it's a good story , said her father . 
At that moment a young man came suddenly in range , who began to look up at the signs of building as he approached . 
She rose mechanically from the trestle , and her face lightened too . 
She was a very pretty figure of a girl , after our fashion of girls , round and slim and flexible , and her face was admirably regular . 
But her great beauty and it was very great was in her colouring . 
This was of an effect for which there is no word but delicious , as we use it of fruit or flowers . 
She had red hair , like her father in his earlier days , and the tints of her cheeks and temples were such as suggested May flowers and apple blossoms and peaches . 
A pause ensued , and flushing again in her uncertainty as to whether she ought or ought not to do it , she said , My father , Mr. Corey and my sister . 
The young man took off his hat again , showing his shapely head , with a line of wholesome sunburn ceasing where the recently and closely clipped hair began . 
His whole dress seemed very fresh and new , and in fact he had cast aside his Texan habiliments only the day before . 
How do you do , sir ? said the Colonel , stepping to the window , and reaching out of it the hand which the young man advanced to take . 
Won't you come in ? We're at home here . 
Oh , indeed ? returned the young man and he came promptly up the steps , and through its ribs into the reception room . 
Have a trestle ? asked the Colonel , while the girls exchanged little shocks of terror and amusement at the eyes . 
Thank you , said the young man simply , and sat down . 
Mrs. Lapham is upstairs interviewing the carpenter , but she'll be down in a minute . 
I hope she's quite well , said Corey . 
I supposed I was afraid she might be out of town . 
Well , we are off to Nantasket next week . 
The house kept us in town pretty late . 
It must be very exciting , building a house , said Corey to the elder sister . 
Yes , it is , she assented , loyally refusing in Irene's interest the opportunity of saying anything more . 
Corey turned to the latter . 
I suppose you've all helped to plan it ? Oh no the architect and mamma did that . 
But they allowed the rest of us to agree , when we were good , said Penelope . 
Corey looked at her , and saw that she was shorter than her sister , and had a dark complexion . 
It's very exciting , said Irene . 
Come up , said the Colonel , rising , and look round if you'd like to . 
I should like to , very much , said the young man . 
He helped the young ladies over crevasses of carpentry and along narrow paths of planking , on which they had made their way unassisted before . 
The elder sister left the younger to profit solely by these offices as much as possible . 
She walked between them and her father , who went before , lecturing on each apartment , and taking the credit of the whole affair more and more as he talked on . 
There ! he said , we're going to throw out a bay window here , so as get the water all the way up and down . 
This is my girls' room , he added , looking proudly at them both . 
Irene blushed deeply and turned her head away . 
But the young man took it all , apparently , as simply as their father . 
What a lovely lookout ! he said . 
The carpentry of that city , embanked and embowered in foliage , shared the picturesqueness of Charlestown in the distance . 
Yes , said Lapham , I go in for using the best rooms in your house yourself . 
If people come to stay with you , they can put up with the second best . 
Though we don't intend to have any second best . 
There ain't going to be an unpleasant room in the whole house , from top to bottom . 
Oh , I wish papa wouldn't brag so ! breathed Irene to her sister , where they stood , a little apart , looking away together . 
No , sir , he swelled out , I have gone in for making a regular job of it . 
I've got the best architect in Boston , and I'm building a house to suit myself . 
And if money can do it , guess I'm going to be suited . 
It seems very delightful , said Corey , and very original . 
That fellow hadn't talked five minutes before I saw that he knew what he was about every time . 
I wish mamma would come ! breathed Irene again . 
I shall certainly go through the floor if papa says anything more . 
They are making a great many very pretty houses nowadays , said the young man . 
It's very different from the old fashioned building . 
Well , said the Colonel , with a large toleration of tone and a deep breath that expanded his ample chest , we spend more on our houses nowadays . 
I started out to build a forty thousand dollar house . 
Well , sir ! that fellow has got me in for more than sixty thousand already , and I doubt if I get out of it much under a hundred . 
You can't have a nice house for nothing . 
It's just like ordering a picture of a painter . 
You pay him enough , and he can afford to paint you a first class picture and if you don't , he can't . 
That's all there is of it . 
Why , they tell me that A. T. Stewart gave one of those French fellows sixty thousand dollars for a little seven by nine picture the other day . 
Yes , sir , give an architect money enough , and he'll give you a nice house every time . 
I've heard that they're sharp at getting money to realise their ideas , assented the young man , with a laugh . 
Well , I should say so ! exclaimed the Colonel . 
They come to you with an improvement that you can't resist . 
It has good looks and common sense and everything in its favour , and it's like throwing money away to refuse . 
And they always manage to get you when your wife is around , and then you're helpless . 
The Colonel himself set the example of laughing at this joke , and the young man joined him less obstreperously . 
The girls turned , and he said , I don't think I ever saw this view to better advantage . 
It s surprising how well the Memorial Hall and the Cambridge spires work up , over there . 
And the sunsets must be magnificent . 
Lapham did not wait for them to reply . 
Yes , sir , it's about the sightliest view I know of . 
I always did like the water side of Beacon . 
Long before I owned property here , or ever expected to , m'wife and I used to ride down this way , and stop the buggy to get this view over the water . 
When people talk to me about the Hill , I can understand 'em . 
It's snug , and it's old fashioned , and it's where they've always lived . 
But when they talk about Commonwealth Avenue , I don't know what they mean . 
It don't hold a candle to the water side of Beacon . 
You've got just as much wind over there , and you've got just as much dust , and all the view you've got is the view across the street . 
No , sir ! when you come to the Back Bay at all , give me the water side of Beacon . 
Oh , I think you're quite right , said the young man . 
The view here is everything . 
He came forward with as much grace and speed as the uncertain footing would allow , and Mrs. Lapham gave him a stout squeeze of her comfortable hand . 
Why , Mr. Corey ! When did you get back ? Yesterday . 
It hardly seems as if I HAD got back . 
I didn't expect to find you in a new house . 
Well , you are our first caller . 
I presume you won't expect I should make excuses for the state you find it in . 
Has the Colonel been doing the honours ? Oh yes . 
And I've seen more of your house than I ever shall again , I suppose . 
Well , I hope not , said Lapham . 
There'll be several chances to see us in the old one yet , before we leave . 
He probably thought this a neat , off hand way of making the invitation , for he looked at his woman kind as if he might expect their admiration . 
Oh yes , indeed ! said his wife . 
We shall be very glad to see Mr. Corey , any time . 
Thank you I shall be glad to come . 
He and the Colonel went before , and helped the ladies down the difficult descent . 
Irene seemed less sure footed than the others she clung to the young man's hand an imperceptible moment longer than need be , or else he detained her . 
He found opportunity of saying , It's so pleasant seeing you again , adding , all of you . 
Thank you , said the girl . 
They must all be glad to have you at home again . 
Well , I suppose they would be , if they were at home to have me . 
But the fact is , there's nobody in the house but my father and myself , and I'm only on my way to Bar Harbour . 
Oh ! Are they there ? Yes it seems to be the only place where my mother can get just the combination of sea and mountain air that she wants . 
We go to Nantasket it's convenient for papa and I don't believe we shall go anywhere else this summer , mamma's so taken up with building . 
We do nothing but talk house and Pen says we eat and sleep house . 
She says it would be a sort of relief to go and live in tents for a while . 
She seems to have a good deal of humour , the young man ventured , upon the slender evidence . 
The others had gone to the back of the house a moment , to look at some suggested change . 
Irene and Corey were left standing in the doorway . 
A lovely light of happiness played over her face and etherealised its delicious beauty . 
The others came back directly , and they all descended the front steps together . 
So that's young Corey , is it ? said the Colonel , letting the stately stepping , tall coupe horse make his way homeward at will with the beach wagon . 
Well , he ain't a bad looking fellow , and he's got a good , fair and square , honest eye . 
But I don't see how a fellow like that , that's had every advantage in this world , can hang round home and let his father support him . 
Seems to me , if I had his health and his education , I should want to strike out and do something for myself . 
The girls on the back seat had hold of each other's hands , and they exchanged electrical pressures at the different points their father made . 
I presume , said Mrs. Lapham , that he was down in Texas looking after something He's come back without finding it , I guess . 
Well , if his father has the money to support him , and don't complain of the burden , I don't see why WE should . 
Oh , I know it's none of my business , but I don't like the principle . 
I like to see a man ACT like a man . 
I don't like to see him taken care of like a young lady . 
Oh , you would , would you ? demanded her father , delighted with her defiance , and twisting his fat head around over his shoulder to look at her . 
Well , you wouldn't do it on my money , if you were a son of MINE , young lady . 
Oh , you wait and see , retorted the girl . 
This made them all laugh . 
But the Colonel recurred seriously to the subject that night , as he was winding up his watch preparatory to putting it under his pillow . 
I could make a man of that fellow , if I had him in the business with me . 
And I guess , from the way Pen spoke up , that 'Rene saw what I was driving at . 
The girl , apparently , was less anxious about her father's ideas and principles than about the impression which he had made upon the young man . 
It's the way father always does talk . 
You never noticed it so much , that's all . 
And I guess if he can't make allowance for father's bragging , he'll be a little too good . 
I enjoyed hearing the Colonel go on . 
I know you did , returned Irene in distress . 
You know very well I don't mean papa , pouted Irene . 
Oh ! Mr. Corey ! Why didn't you say Mr. Corey if you meant Mr. Corey ? If I meant Mr. Corey , I should say Mr. Corey . 
It isn't swearing ! Corey , Corey , Co Her sister clapped her hand over her mouth Will you HUSH , you wretched thing ? she whimpered . 
The whole house can hear you . 
Oh yes , they can hear me all over the square . 
Well , I think he looked well enough for a plain youth , who hadn't taken his hair out of curl papers for some time . 
It WAS clipped pretty close , Irene admitted and they both laughed at the drab effect of Mr. Corey's skull , as they remembered it . 
Did you like his nose ? asked Irene timorously . 
Ah , now you're COMING to something , said Penelope . 
I don't know whether , if I had so much of a nose , I should want it all Roman . 
I don't see how you can expect to have a nose part one kind and part another , argued Irene . 
Now , my nose started Grecian , but changed its mind before it got over the bridge , and concluded to be snub the rest of the way . 
You've got a very pretty nose , Pen , said Irene , joining in the contemplation of its reflex in the glass . 
You mean thing ! she cried , between her shut teeth , blushing hotly . 
Well , D. , then , said Penelope . 
You've nothing to say against D. ? Though I think C. is just as nice an initial . 
Oh ! cried the younger , for all expression of unspeakable things . 
I think he has very good eyes , admitted Penelope . 
He knows how to choose his tailor . 
Irene sat down on the edge of a chair . 
It was so nice of you , Pen , to come in , that way , about clubs . 
Oh , I didn't mean anything by it except opposition , said Penelope . 
I couldn't have father swelling on so , without saying something . 
How he did swell ! sighed Irene . 
I thought I SHOULD die , said Irene . 
'It's just like ordering a painting , said Penelope , recalling her father's talk , with an effect of dreamy absent mindedness . 
'You give the painter money enough , and he can afford to paint you a first class picture . 
Give an architect money enough , and he'll give you a first class house , every time . 
Oh , wasn't it awful ! moaned her sister . 
No one would ever have supposed that he had fought the very idea of an architect for weeks , before he gave in . 
'I always did like the water side of Beacon , long before I owned property there . 
When you come to the Back Bay at all , give me the water side of Beacon . 
Ow w w w ! shrieked Irene . 
The Colonel heard a sound of scurrying feet , whisking drapery , and slamming doors . 
Then he heard one of the doors opened again , and Penelope said , I was only repeating something you said when you talked to Mr. Corey . 
Very well , now , answered the Colonel . 
You postpone the rest of it till to morrow at breakfast , and see that you're up in time to let ME hear it . 
He was a white moustached old gentleman , who had never been able to abandon his pince nez for the superior comfort of spectacles , even in the privacy of his own library . 
Tom , he said , where did you get such good clothes ? I stopped over a day in New York , replied the son , finding himself a chair . 
I'm glad you like them . 
Yes , I always do like your clothes , Tom , returned the father thoughtfully , swinging his glasses , But I don't see how you can afford 'em , I can't . 
Smoke ? suggested the father , pushing toward his son a box of cigarettes , from which he had taken one . 
No , thank you , said the son . 
Ah , is that so ? The father began to feel about on the table for matches , in the purblind fashion of elderly men . 
His son rose , lighted one , and handed it to him . 
But I'm too old to try . 
Though , I confess , I should rather like the clothes . 
Whom did you find at the club ? There were a lot of fellows there , said young Corey , watching the accomplished fumigation of his father in an absent way . 
It's astonishing what a hardy breed the young club men are , observed his father . 
Boston isn't a bad place , at the worst , in summer , said the son , declining to take up the matter in its ironical shape . 
I dare say it isn't , compared with Texas , returned the father , smoking tranquilly on . 
But I don't suppose you find many of your friends in town outside of the club . 
No you're requested to ring at the rear door , all the way down Beacon Street and up Commonwealth Avenue . 
It's rather a blank reception for the returning prodigal . 
Ah , the prodigal must take his chance if he comes back out of season . 
But I'm glad to have you back , Tom , even as it is , and I hope you're not going to hurry away . 
You must give your energies a rest . 
I'm sure you never had to reproach me with abnormal activity , suggested the son , taking his father's jokes in good part . 
No , I don't know that I have , admitted the elder . 
You've always shown a fair degree of moderation , after all . 
What do you think of taking up next ? I mean after you have embraced your mother and sisters at Mount Desert . 
Real estate ? It seems to me that it is about time for you to open out as a real estate broker . 
Or did you ever think of matrimony ? Well , not just in that way , sir , said the young man . 
I shouldn't quite like to regard it as a career , you know . 
And I quite agree with you . 
But you know I've always contended that the affections could be made to combine pleasure and profit . 
Some of the rich girls are very nice , and I should say that the chances of a quiet life with them were rather greater . 
They've always had everything , and they wouldn't be so ambitious and uneasy . 
Don't you think so ? It would depend , said the son , upon whether a girl's people had been rich long enough to have given her position before she married . 
If they hadn't , I don't see how she would be any better than a poor girl in that respect . 
Yes , there's sense in that . 
But the suddenly rich are on a level with any of us nowadays . 
Money buys position at once . 
I don't say that it isn't all right . 
The world generally knows what it's about , and knows how to drive a bargain . 
I dare say it makes the new rich pay too much . 
But there's no doubt but money is to the fore now . 
It is the romance , the poetry of our age . 
It's the thing that chiefly strikes the imagination . 
The Englishmen who come here are more curious about the great new millionaires than about any one else , and they respect them more . 
I don't complain of it . 
And you would like a rich daughter in law , quite regardless , then ? Oh , not quite so bad as that , Tom , said his father . 
A little youth , a little beauty , a little good sense and pretty behaviour one mustn't object to those things and they go just as often with money as without it . 
And I suppose I should like her people to be rather grammatical . 
It seems to me that you're exacting , sir , said the son . 
How can you expect people who have been strictly devoted to business to be grammatical ? Isn't that rather too much ? Perhaps it is . 
But I understood your mother to say that those benefactors of hers , whom you met last summer , were very passably grammatical . 
The elder , who had been smoking with his profile toward his son , now turned his face full upon him . 
I didn't know you had seen him ? I hadn't until to day , said young Corey , with a little heightening of his colour . 
But I was walking down street this afternoon , and happened to look round at a new house some one was putting up , and I saw the whole family in the window . 
It appears that Mr. Lapham is building the house . 
The elder Corey knocked the ash of his cigarette into the holder at his elbow . 
I am more and more convinced , the longer I know you , Tom , that we are descended from Giles Corey . 
The gift of holding one's tongue seems to have skipped me , but you have it in full force . 
I can't say just how you would behave under peine forte et dure , but under ordinary pressure you are certainly able to keep your own counsel . 
Why didn't you mention this encounter at dinner ? You weren't asked to plead to an accusation of witchcraft . 
No , not exactly , said the young man . 
But I didn't quite see my way to speaking of it . 
We had a good many other things before us . 
I suppose you wouldn't have mentioned it now if I hadn't led up to it , would you ? I don't know , sir . 
It was rather on my mind to do so . 
Perhaps it was I who led up to it . 
Perhaps you did , Tom perhaps you did . 
Your mother would have known you were leading up to something , but I'll confess that I didn't . 
What is it ? Nothing very definite . 
Well ? was all that he said . 
You mean that there are worse things in Texas ? Not that exactly . 
I mean that I saw it wouldn't be quite fair to test him by our standards . 
This comes of the error which I have often deprecated , said the elder Corey . 
In fact I am always saying that the Bostonian ought never to leave Boston . 
Then he knows and then only that there can BE no standard but ours . 
But we are constantly going away , and coming back with our convictions shaken to their foundations . 
It ought to be stopped it ought , really . 
The Bostonian who leaves Boston ought to be condemned to perpetual exile . 
The son suffered the father to reach his climax with smiling patience . 
Well , sir , he bragged , rather . 
Oh , I don't know that bragging should exempt him from the ordinary processes . 
I've heard other people brag in Boston . 
Ah , not just in that personal way not about money . 
No , that was certainly different . 
No. I should be glad to express something of the kind myself , if the facts would justify me . 
The son smiled tolerantly again . 
But if he was enjoying his money in that way , I didn't see why he shouldn't show his pleasure in it . 
It might have been vulgar , but it wasn't sordid . 
And I don't know that it was vulgar . 
Perhaps his successful strokes of business were the romance of his life The father interrupted with a laugh . 
The girl must be uncommonly pretty . 
What did she seem to think of her father's brag ? There were two of them , answered the son evasively . 
Oh , two ! And is the sister pretty too ? Not pretty , but rather interesting . 
She is like her mother . 
Then the pretty one isn't the father's pet ? I can't say , sir . 
I don't believe , added the young fellow , that I can make you see Colonel Lapham just as I did . 
He struck me as very simple hearted and rather wholesome . 
Of course he could be tiresome we all can and I suppose his range of ideas is limited . 
But he is a force , and not a bad one . 
If he hasn't got over being surprised at the effect of rubbing his lamp Oh , one could make out a case . 
I suppose you know what you are about , Tom . 
But remember that we are Essex County people , and that in savour we are just a little beyond the salt of the earth . 
He isn't to my taste , though he might be ever so much to my conscience . 
I suppose , said the son , that there is nothing really to be ashamed of in mineral paint . 
People go into all sorts of things . 
His father took his cigarette from his mouth and once more looked his son full in the face . 
Oh , is THAT it ? It has crossed my mind , admitted the son . 
I've wasted time and money enough . 
I've seen much younger men all through the West and South west taking care of themselves . 
I don't think I was particularly fit for anything out there , but I am ashamed to come back and live upon you , sir . 
His father shook his head with an ironical sigh . 
Ah , we shall never have a real aristocracy while this plebeian reluctance to live upon a parent or a wife continues the animating spirit of our youth . 
It strikes at the root of the whole feudal system . 
I really think you owe me an apology , Tom . 
I supposed you wished to marry the girl's money , and here you are , basely seeking to go into business with her father . 
Young Corey laughed again like a son who perceives that his father is a little antiquated , but keeps a filial faith in his wit . 
I don't know that it's quite so bad as that but the thing had certainly crossed my mind . 
I don't know how it's to be approached , and I don't know that it's at all possible . 
But I confess that I 'took to' Colonel Lapham from the moment I saw him . 
He looked as if he 'meant business , and I mean business too . 
The real estate business is pretty full . 
Yes , if you have a deep inward vocation for it , I don't see why mineral paint shouldn't do . 
I fancy it's easy enough approaching the matter . 
We will invite Papa Lapham to dinner , and talk it over with him . 
Oh , I don't think that would be exactly the way , sir , said the son , smiling at his father's patrician unworldliness . 
No ? Why not ? I'm afraid it would be a bad start . 
I don't think it would strike him as business like . 
I don't see why he should be punctilious , if we're not . 
Ah , we might say that if he were making the advances . 
Well , perhaps you are right , Tom . 
What is your idea ? I haven't a very clear one . 
It seems to me I ought to get some business friend of ours , whose judgment he would respect , to speak a good word for me . 
Give you a character ? Yes . 
And of course I must go to Colonel Lapham . 
That sounds tremendously practical to me , Tom , though it may be just the wrong way . 
When are you going down to Mount Desert ? To morrow , I think , sir , said the young man . 
I shall turn it over in my mind while I'm off . 
The father rose , showing something more than his son's height , with a very slight stoop , which the son's figure had not . 
Well , he said , whimsically , I admire your spirit , and I don't deny that it is justified by necessity . 
It's a consolation to think that while I've been spending and enjoying , I have been preparing the noblest future for you a future of industry and self reliance . 
You never could draw , but this scheme of going into the mineral paint business shows that you have inherited something of my feeling for colour . 
The son laughed once more , and waiting till his father was well on his way upstairs , turned out the gas and then hurried after him and preceded him into his chamber . 
He glanced over it to see that everything was there , to his father's hand . 
Then he said , Good night , sir , and the elder responded , Good night , my son , and the son went to his own room . 
Bromfield Corey had not inherited it , and he had made his straight nose his defence when the old merchant accused him of a want of energy . 
He said , What could a man do whose unnatural father had left his own nose away from him ? This amused but did not satisfy the merchant . 
You must do something , he said and it's for you to choose . 
If you don't like the India trade , go into something else . 
Or , take up law or medicine . 
No Corey yet ever proposed to do nothing . 
Bromfield Corey liked his son Tom for the gentleness which tempered his energy . 
Well let us compromise , he seemed to be saying to his father's portrait . 
Travel ? How long ? the keen eyes demanded . 
I won't be hard with you , father . 
He could see the eyes soften , and the smile of yielding come over his father's face the merchant could not resist a son who was so much like his dead mother . 
There was some vague understanding between them that Bromfield Corey was to come back and go into business after a time , but he never did so . 
After ten years he came home and painted that portrait of his father . 
It was very good , if a little amateurish , and he might have made himself a name as a painter of portraits if he had not had so much money . 
But he had plenty of money , though by this time he was married and beginning to have a family . 
It was absurd for him to paint portraits for pay , and ridiculous to paint them for nothing so he did not paint them at all . 
He continued a dilettante , never quite abandoning his art , but working at it fitfully , and talking more about it than working at it . 
He had his theory of Titian's method and now and then a Bostonian insisted upon buying a picture of him . 
After a while he hung it more and more inconspicuously , and said apologetically , Oh yes ! that's one of Bromfield Corey's things . 
It has nice qualities , but it's amateurish . 
In process of time the money seemed less abundant . 
There were shrinkages of one kind and another , and living had grown much more expensive and luxurious . 
For many years he talked about going back to Rome , but he never went , and his children grew up in the usual way . 
Before he knew it his son had him out to his class day spread at Harvard , and then he had his son on his hands . 
The son made various unsuccessful provisions for himself , and still continued upon his father's hands , to their common dissatisfaction , though it was chiefly the younger who repined . 
You would go and travel , as I did . 
LAPHAM and his wife continued talking after he had quelled the disturbance in his daughters' room overhead and their talk was not altogether of the new house . 
I tell you , he said , if I had that fellow in the business with me I would make a man of him . 
Well , Silas Lapham , returned his wife , I do believe you've got mineral paint on the brain . 
Do you suppose a fellow like young Corey , brought up the way he's been , would touch mineral paint with a ten foot pole ? Why not ? haughtily asked the Colonel . 
Well , if you don't know already , there's no use trying to tell you . 
The father remained at home altogether and the son joined them in the intervals of his enterprises , which occurred only too often . 
At Bar Harbour , where he now went to find them , after his winter in Texas , he confessed to his mother that there seemed no very good opening there for him . 
He might do as well as Loring Stanton , but he doubted if Stanton was doing very well . 
Then he mentioned the new project which he had been thinking over . 
There was one of his hideous advertisements , she said , painted on a reef that we saw as we came down . 
Well , I suppose , if it was in a good state of preservation , that is proof positive of the efficacy of the paint on the hulls of vessels . 
I thought you didn't find them so very bad , suggested Corey . 
I hadn't seen them in Nankeen Square then . 
You can see them on the water side of Beacon Street when you go back . 
Then he told of his encounter with the Lapham family in their new house . 
At the end his mother merely said , It is getting very common down there , and she did not try to oppose anything further to his scheme . 
The young man went to see Colonel Lapham shortly after his return to Boston . 
His hands and neck still kept the brown of the Texan suns and winds , and he looked as business like as Lapham himself . 
He spoke up promptly and briskly in the outer office , and caused the pretty girl to look away from her copying at him . 
Lapham had recognised the voice , and he was standing , in considerable perplexity , to receive Corey , when the young man opened his painted glass door . 
It was a hot afternoon , and Lapham was in his shirt sleeves . 
Scarcely a trace of the boastful hospitality with which he had welcomed Corey to his house a few days before lingered in his present address . 
He looked at the young man's face , as if he expected him to despatch whatever unimaginable affair he had come upon . 
Won't you sit down ? How are you ? You'll excuse me , he added , in brief allusion to the shirt sleeves . 
I wish you'd let me take off MY coat . 
Why , TAKE it off ! cried the Colonel , with instant pleasure . 
There is something in human nature which causes the man in his shirt sleeves to wish all other men to appear in the same deshabille . 
But perhaps you haven't got two minutes to give me ? Oh yes , I have , said the Colonel . 
I was just going to knock off . 
I can give you twenty , and then I shall have fifteen minutes to catch the boat . 
All right , said Corey . 
I want you to take me into the mineral paint business . 
He twisted his thick neck , and looked round at the door to see if it was shut . 
I suppose , continued the young man , I could have got several people whose names you know to back my industry and sobriety , and say a word for my business capacity . 
But I thought I wouldn't trouble anybody for certificates till I found whether there was a chance , or the ghost of one , of your wanting me . 
So I came straight to you . 
Lapham gathered himself together as well as he could . 
Whether he satisfied himself by this or not , he reddened a little after he had said it . 
Since Bartley's interview had appeared , Lapham had regarded it with very mixed feelings . 
At first it gave him a glow of secret pleasure , blended with doubt as to how his wife would like the use Bartley had made of her in it . 
But she had not seemed to notice it much , and Lapham had experienced the gratitude of the man who escapes . 
Then his girls had begun to make fun of it and though he did not mind Penelope's jokes much , he did not like to see that Irene's gentility was wounded . 
He took it for granted that everybody had read it . 
I don't know what you mean , replied Corey , I don't see the Events regularly . 
Oh , it was nothing . 
They sent a fellow down here to interview me , and he got everything about as twisted as he could . 
I believe they always do , said Corey . 
Perhaps it came out before I got home . 
My notion of making myself useful to you was based on a hint I got from one of your own circulars . 
Lapham was proud of those circulars he thought they read very well . 
What was that ? I could put a little capital into the business , said Corey , with the tentative accent of a man who chances a thing . 
I've got a little money , but I didn't imagine you cared for anything of that kind . 
No , sir , I don't , returned the Colonel bluntly . 
I've had one partner , and one's enough . 
Yes , assented the young man , who doubtless had his own ideas as to eventualities or perhaps rather had the vague hopes of youth . 
I didn't come to propose a partnership . 
But I see that you are introducing your paint into the foreign markets , and there I really thought I might be of use to you , and to myself too . 
How ? asked the Colonel scantly . 
Well , I know two or three languages pretty well . 
I know French , and I know German , and I've got a pretty fair sprinkling of Spanish . 
You mean that you can talk them ? asked the Colonel , with the mingled awe and slight that such a man feels for such accomplishments . 
Yes and I can write an intelligible letter in either of them . 
It's easy enough to get all the letters we want translated . 
Well , pursued Corey , not showing his discouragement if he felt any , I know the countries where you want to introduce this paint of yours . 
I've been in Germany and France and I've been in South America and Mexico I've been in Italy , of course . 
I believe I could go to any of those countries and place it to advantage . 
Lapham had listened with a trace of persuasion in his face , but now he shook his head . 
It's placing itself as fast as there's any call for it . 
It wouldn't pay us to send anybody out to look after it . 
Your salary and expenses would eat up about all we should make on it . 
Yes , returned the young man intrepidly , if you had to pay me any salary and expenses . 
You don't propose to work for nothing ? I propose to work for a commission . 
The Colonel was beginning to shake his head again , but Corey hurried on . 
I haven't come to you without making some inquiries about the paint , and I know how it stands with those who know best . 
Lapham lifted his head and looked at the young man , deeply moved . 
It's the best paint in God's universe , he said with the solemnity of prayer . 
It's the best in the market , said Corey and he repeated , I believe in it . 
You believe in it , began the Colonel , and then he stopped . 
If there had really been any purchasing power in money , a year's income would have bought Mrs. Lapham's instant presence . 
You mustn't let me outstay my twenty minutes , he said , taking out his watch . 
I don't expect you to give a decided answer on the spot . 
All that I ask is that you'll consider my proposition . 
Don't hurry , said Lapham . 
Sit still ! I want to tell you about this paint , he added , in a voice husky with the feeling that his hearer could not divine . 
I want to tell you ALL about it . 
I could walk with you to the boat , suggested the young man . 
Never mind the boat ! I can take the next one . 
Look here ! The Colonel pulled open a drawer , as Corey sat down again , and took out a photograph of the locality of the mine . 
Here's where we get it . 
This photograph don't half do the place justice , he said , as if the imperfect art had slighted the features of a beloved face . 
At last the Colonel roused himself from the autobiographical delight of the history of his paint . 
Well , sir , that's the story . 
It's an interesting story , said Corey , with a long breath , as they rose together , and Lapham put on his coat . 
That's what it is , said the Colonel . 
Well ! he added , I don't see but what we've got to have another talk about this thing . 
It's a surprise to me , and I don't see exactly how you're going to make it pay . 
I'm willing to take the chances , answered Corey . 
As I said , I believe in it . 
I should try South America first . 
Look here ! said Lapham , with his watch in his hand . 
I like to get things over . 
We've just got time for the six o'clock boat . 
Why don't you come down with me to Nantasket ? I can give you a bed as well as not . 
And then we can finish up . 
The impatience of youth in Corey responded to the impatience of temperament in his elder . 
Why , I don't see why I shouldn't , he allowed himself to say . 
I confess I should like to have it finished up myself , if it could be finished up in the right way . 
Dennis ! Lapham called to the remote porter , and the man came . 
Want to send any word home ? he asked Corey . 
No my father and I go and come as we like , without keeping account of each other . 
If I don't come home , he knows that I'm not there . 
You'll find you can't do that when you're married . 
Never mind , Dennis , said the Colonel . 
He had time to buy two newspapers on the wharf before he jumped on board the steam boat with Corey . 
Just made it , he said and that's what I like to do . 
I can't stand it to be aboard much more than a minute before she shoves out . 
I hate to see them stirring up those Southern fellows again , said the Colonel , speaking into the paper on his lap . 
Seems to me it's time to let those old issues go . 
Yes , said the young man . 
What are they doing now ? Oh , stirring up the Confederate brigadiers in Congress . 
Seems to me , if our party hain't got any other stock in trade , we better shut up shop altogether . 
He folded up his paper at last , and stuffed it into his coat pocket . 
I like to get the fresh air all through me , soul and body . 
I believe a man can give his mind a rest , just the same as he can give his legs a rest , or his back . 
All he's got to do is to use his will power . 
That's the reason I like a horse . 
You got to take your mind right up and put it where you want it . 
And when I get through the paper , I try to get somebody to talk to , or I watch the people . 
It's an astonishing thing to me where they all come from . 
I've been riding up and down on these boats for six or seven years , and I don't know but very few of the faces I see on board . 
Seems to be a perfectly fresh lot every time . 
Well , of course ! Town's full of strangers in the summer season , anyway , and folks keep coming down from the country . 
They think it's a great thing to get down to the beach , and they've all heard of the electric light on the water , and they want to see it . 
But you take faces now ! The astonishing thing to me is not what a face tells , but what it don't tell . 
I like to watch the couples , and try to make out which are engaged , or going to be , and which are married , or better be . 
But half the time I can't make any sort of guess . 
Of course , where they're young and kittenish , you can tell but where they're anyways on , you can't . 
Heigh ? Yes , I think you're right , said Corey , not perfectly reconciled to philosophy in the place of business , but accepting it as he must . 
Well , said the Colonel , I don't suppose it was meant we should know what was in each other's minds . 
It would take a man out of his own hands . 
I don't want to know people through and through . 
The greater part of the crowd on board and , of course , the boat was crowded looked as if they might not only be easily but safely known . 
In face they were commonplace , with nothing but the American poetry of vivid purpose to light them up , where they did not wholly lack fire . 
But they were nearly all shrewd and friendly looking , with an apparent readiness for the humorous intimacy native to us all . 
The women were dandified in dress , according to their means and taste , and the men differed from each other in degrees of indifference to it . 
To a straw hatted population , such as ours is in summer , no sort of personal dignity is possible . 
We have not even the power over observers which comes from the fantasticality of an Englishman when he discards the conventional dress . 
In our straw hats and our serge or flannel sacks we are no more imposing than a crowd of boys . 
Some day , said Lapham , rising as the boat drew near the wharf of the final landing , there s going to be an awful accident on these boats . 
Just look at that jam . 
Overload 'em every time , he continued , with a sort of dry , impersonal concern at the impending calamity , as if it could not possibly include him . 
They take about twice as many as they ought to carry , and about ten times as many as they could save if anything happened . 
Yes , sir , it's bound to come . 
When he had made his way with his guest through the crowd , she began to speak to her father before she noticed Corey . 
Well , Colonel , you've improved your last chance . 
Get right in there , alongside of Miss Lapham , Mr. Corey , he said , pulling himself up into the place beside the driver . 
No , no , he had added quickly , at some signs of polite protest in the young man , I don't give up the best place to anybody . 
Jerry , suppose you let me have hold of the leathers a minute . 
Pretty gay down here , he said , indicating all this with a turn of his whip , as he left it behind him . 
But I've got about sick of hotels and this summer I made up my mind that I'd take a cottage . 
The girl smiled a daughter's amusement at her father's boyishness . 
I don't think there's much change since morning . 
Did Irene have a headache when you left ? No , said the Colonel . 
Well , then , there's that to report . 
Pshaw ! said the Colonel with vexation in his tone . 
I'm sorry Miss Irene isn't well , said Corey politely . 
I think she must have got it from walking too long on the beach . 
The air is so cool here that you forget how hot the sun is . 
Yes , that's true , assented Corey . 
A good night's rest will make it all right , suggested the Colonel , without looking round . 
But you girls have got to look out . 
If you're fond of walking , said Corey , I suppose you find the beach a temptation . 
Oh , it isn't so much that , returned the girl . 
You keep walking on and on because it's so smooth and straight before you . 
We're as well acquainted with the crabs and stranded jelly fish as we are with the children digging in the sand and the people sitting under umbrellas . 
I think they're always the same , all of them . 
The Colonel left the talk to the young people . 
It was treeless and bare all round , and the ocean , unnecessarily vast , weltered away a little more than a stone's cast from the cottage . 
THE exultant Colonel swung himself lightly down from his seat . 
I've brought Mr. Corey with me , he nonchalantly explained . 
Mrs. Lapham made their guest welcome , and the Colonel showed him to his room , briefly assuring himself that there was nothing wanting there . 
Then he went to wash his own hands , carelessly ignoring the eagerness with which his wife pursued him to their chamber . 
What gave Irene a headache ? he asked , making himself a fine lather for his hairy paws . 
Never you mind Irene , promptly retorted his wife . 
Do you want him to hear EVERY thing ? DID you urge him ? The Colonel laughed the more . 
He was going to get all the good out of this . 
No , I didn't urge him . 
Seemed to want to come . 
Where did you meet him ? At the office . 
Nonsense ! What was he doing there ? Oh , nothing much . 
What did he come for ? Come for ? Oh ! he SAID he wanted to go into the mineral paint business . 
Mrs. Lapham dropped into a chair , and watched his bulk shaken with smothered laughter . 
Silas Lapham , she gasped , if you try to get off any more of those things on me The Colonel applied himself to the towel . 
Had a notion he could work it in South America . 
I don't know what he's up to . 
Never mind ! cried his wife . 
I'll get even with you YET . 
So I told him he had better come down and talk it over , continued the Colonel , in well affected simplicity . 
I knew he wouldn't touch it with a ten foot pole . 
Go on ! threatened Mrs. Lapham . 
Right thing to do , wa'n't it ? A tap was heard at the door , and Mrs. Lapham answered it . 
Very well , she said , come to tea now . 
But I'll make you pay for this , Silas . 
Penelope had gone to her sister's room as soon as she entered the house . 
Is your head any better , 'Rene ? she asked . 
Yes , a little , came a voice from the pillows . 
But I shall not come to tea . 
If I keep still , I shall be all right by morning . 
Well , I'm sorry , said the elder sister . 
He's come down with father . 
He hasn't ! Who ? cried Irene , starting up in simultaneous denial and demand . 
Oh , well , if you say he hasn't , what's the use of my telling you who ? Oh , how can you treat me so ! moaned the sufferer . 
What do you mean , Pen ? I guess I'd better not tell you , said Penelope , watching her like a cat playing with a mouse . 
If you're not coming to tea , it would just excite you for nothing . 
The mouse moaned and writhed upon the bed . 
I've told him you had a headache . 
Why , of course you can't come ! It would be too barefaced But you needn't be troubled , Irene I'll do my best to make the time pass pleasantly for him . 
Here the cat gave a low titter , and the mouse girded itself up with a momentary courage and self respect . 
I should think you would be ashamed to come here and tease me so . 
I don't see why you shouldn't believe me , argued Penelope . 
Why shouldn't he come down with father , if father asked him ? and he'd be sure to if he thought of it . 
I don't see any p'ints about that frog that's any better than any other frog . 
Well , Pen , I wouldn't use you so , she whimpered . 
Penelope threw herself on the bed beside her . 
Oh , poor Irene ! He IS here . 
And she caressed and soothed her sister , while she choked with laughter . 
You must get up and come out . 
I don't know what brought him here , but here he is . 
It's too late now , said Irene desolately . 
Then she added , with a wilder despair What a fool I was to take that walk ! Well , coaxed her sister , come out and get some tea . 
The tea will do you good . 
No , no I can't come . 
But send me a cup here . 
Yes , and then perhaps you can see him later in the evening . 
I shall not see him at all . 
An hour after Penelope came back to her sister's room and found her before her glass . 
You might as well have kept still , and been well by morning , 'Rene , she said . 
As soon as we were done father said , 'Well , Mr. Corey and I have got to talk over a little matter of business , and we'll excuse you , ladies . 
Ho looked at mother in a way that I guess was pretty hard to bear . 
'Rene , you ought to have heard the Colonel swelling at supper . 
It would have made you feel that all he said the other day was nothing . 
Mrs. Lapham suddenly opened the door . 
But you mustn't ask me what his business with Mr. Corey is , for I don't know . 
All that I know is that I met them at the landing , and that they conversed all the way down on literary topics . 
Nonsense ! What do you think it is ? Well , if you want my candid opinion , I think this talk about business is nothing but a blind . 
It seems a pity Irene shouldn't have been up to receive him , she added . 
Irene cast a mute look of imploring at her mother , who was too much preoccupied to afford her the protection it asked . 
Your father said he wanted to go into the business with him . 
Irene's look changed to a stare of astonishment and mystification , but Penelope preserved her imperturbability . 
Well , it's a lucrative business , I believe . 
Well , I don't believe a word of it ! cried Mrs. Lapham . 
And so I told your father . 
Did it seem to convince him ? inquired Penelope . 
Her mother did not reply . 
I know one thing , she said . 
He's got to tell me every word , or there'll be no sleep for him THIS night . 
Well , ma'am , said Penelope , breaking down in one of her queer laughs , I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you were right . 
Go on and dress , Irene , ordered her mother , and then you and Pen come out into the parlour . 
They can have just two hours for business , and then we must all be there to receive him . 
You haven't got headache enough to hurt you . 
Oh , it's all gone now , said the girl . 
At the end of the limit she had given the Colonel , Mrs. Lapham looked into the dining room , which she found blue with his smoke . 
I think you gentlemen will find the parlour pleasanter now , and we can give it up to you . 
Oh no , you needn't , said her husband . 
Corey was already standing , and Lapham rose too . 
I guess we can join the ladies now . 
We can leave that little point till to morrow . 
But after Corey had greeted Irene he glanced at the novel under his eye , and said , in the dearth that sometimes befalls people at such times I see you're reading Middlemarch . 
Do you like George Eliot ? Who ? asked the girl . 
I don't believe Irene's read it yet . 
I've just got it out of the library I heard so much talk about it . 
I wish she would let you find out a little about the people for yourself , she added . 
But here her father struck in I can't get the time for books . 
But I guess we all like a play better than 'most anything else . 
I want something that'll make me laugh . 
I don't believe in tragedy . 
I think there's enough of that in real life without putting it on the stage . 
Seen 'Joshua Whitcomb' ? The whole family joined in the discussion , and it appeared that they all had their opinions of the plays and actors . 
Mrs. Lapham brought the talk back to literature . 
I guess Penelope does most of our reading . 
Now , mother , you're not going to put it all on me ! said the girl , in comic protest . 
My mother called them all LIES . 
And I guess she wasn't so very far wrong about some of them . 
They're certainly fictions , said Corey , smiling . 
But I get about all the reading I want in the newspapers . 
And when the girls want a novel , I tell 'em to get it out of the library . 
That's what the library's for . 
Phew ! he panted , blowing away the whole unprofitable subject . 
Here ! You girls get on your bonnets , and go and show Mr. Corey the view of the hotels from the rocks . 
Corey said that he should be delighted . 
The girls exchanged looks with each other , and then with their mother . 
Irene curved her pretty chin in comment upon her father's incorrigibility , and Penelope made a droll mouth , but the Colonel remained serenely content with his finesse . 
It's just as I said , Persis he wants to go into the business with me . 
It's lucky for you , said his wife , meaning that now he would not be made to suffer for attempting to hoax her . 
But she was too intensely interested to pursue that matter further . 
And now he's got an idea that he can take hold of the paint and push it in other countries push it in Mexico and push it in South America . 
He's a splendid Spanish scholar , this was Lapham's version of Corey's modest claim to a smattering of the language , and he's been among the natives enough to know their ways . 
And he believes in the paint , added the Colonel . 
I guess he believes in something else besides the paint , said Mrs. Lapham . 
What do you mean ? Well , Silas Lapham , if you can't see NOW that he's after Irene , I don't know what ever CAN open your eyes . 
The Colonel pretended to give the idea silent consideration , as if it had not occurred to him before . 
Well , then , all I've got to say is , that he's going a good way round . 
I don't say you're wrong , but if it's Irene , I don't see why he should want to go off to South America to get her . 
And that's what he proposes to do . 
I guess there's some paint about it too , Persis . 
Of course ! He isn't going to take hold of it any way so as to feel beholden to you . 
He's got too much pride for that . 
He ain't going to take hold of it at all , if he don't mean paint in the first place and Irene afterward . 
But , as far as heard from , up to date , he means paint first , last , and all the time . 
At any rate , I'm going to take him on that basis . 
He's got some pretty good ideas about it , and he's been stirred up by this talk , just now , about getting our manufactures into the foreign markets . 
There's an overstock in everything , and we've got to get rid of it , or we've got to shut down till the home demand begins again . 
We've had two or three such flurries before now , and they didn't amount to much . 
I don't know whether it's so or not but I don't see why it should apply to my paint . 
Anyway , he wants to try it , and I've about made up my mind to let him . 
Of course I ain't going to let him take all the risk . 
I believe in the paint TOO , and I shall pay his expenses anyway . 
So you want another partner after all ? Mrs. Lapham could not forbear saying . 
Yes , if that's your idea of a partner . 
It isn't mine , returned her husband dryly . 
Well , if you've made up your mind , Si , I suppose you're ready for advice , said Mrs. Lapham . 
What have you got to say against it ? I don't know as I've got anything . 
I'm satisfied if you are . 
Well ? When is he going to start for South America ? I shall take him into the office a while . 
He'll get off some time in the winter . 
But he's got to know the business first . 
And if he don't use his privileges , do you think he'll be a fit person to manage your paint in South America ? The Colonel reddened consciously . 
I'm not taking him on that basis . 
Oh yes , you are ! You may pretend you ain't to yourself , but you mustn't pretend so to me . 
Mrs. Lapham continued I don't see any harm in hoping that he'll take a fancy to her . 
But if you really think it won't do to mix the two things , I advise you not to take Mr. Corey into the business . 
It will do all very well if he DOES take a fancy to her but if he don't , you know how you'll feel about it . 
And I know you well enough , Silas , to know that you can't do him justice if that happens . 
And I don't think it's right you should take this step unless you're pretty sure . 
I can see that you've set your heart on this thing I haven't set my heart on it at all , protested Lapham . 
And if you can't bring it about , you're going to feel unhappy over it , pursued his wife , regardless of his protest . 
Oh , very well , he said . 
If you know more about what's in my mind than I do , there's no use arguing , as I can see . 
He got up , to carry off his consciousness , and sauntered out of the door on to his piazza . 
He could see the young people down on the rocks , and his heart swelled in his breast . 
Lapham could not see the smartness of some of them which had been repeated to him . 
Once he had encountered the fellow , and it seemed to Lapham that the tall , slim , white moustached man , with the slight stoop , was everything that was offensively aristocratic . 
Nothing had moved his thick imagination like this day's events since the girl who taught him spelling and grammar in the school at Lumberville had said she would have him for her husband . 
The dark figures , stationary on the rocks , began to move , and he could see that they were coming toward the house . 
He went indoors , so as not to appear to have been watching them . 
A WEEK after she had parted with her son at Bar Harbour , Mrs. Corey suddenly walked in upon her husband in their house in Boston . 
Mrs. Corey was a lady , and she did not let her envy take the form of open reproach . 
Well , Anna , you find me here in the luxury you left me to . 
How did you leave the girls ? The girls were well , said Mrs. Corey , looking absently at her husband's brown velvet coat , in which he was so handsome . 
No man had ever grown grey more beautifully . 
His skin had the pearly tint which that of elderly men sometimes assumes , and the lines which time had traced upon it were too delicate for the name of wrinkles . 
He had never had any personal vanity , and there was no consciousness in his good looks now . 
I am glad of that . 
The boy I have with me , he returned that is , when he IS with me . 
Why , where is he ? demanded the mother . 
Probably carousing with the boon Lapham somewhere . 
He left me yesterday afternoon to go and offer his allegiance to the Mineral Paint King , and I haven't seen him since . 
Bromfield ! cried Mrs. Corey . 
Why didn't you stop him ? Well , my dear , I'm not sure that it isn't a very good thing . 
A good thing ? It's horrid ! No , I don't think so . 
Why shouldn't he go into something else ? lamented the mother . 
I believe he has gone into nearly everything else and come out of it . 
So there is a chance of his coming out of this . 
But as I had nothing to suggest in place of it , I thought it best not to interfere . 
In fact , what good would my telling him that mineral paint was nasty have done ? I dare say YOU told him it was nasty . 
And you see with what effect , though he values your opinion three times as much as he values mine . 
Perhaps you came up to tell him again that it was nasty ? I feel very unhappy about it . 
He is throwing himself away . 
Yes , I should like to prevent it if I could ! The father shook his head . 
If Lapham hasn't prevented it , I fancy it's too late . 
But there may be some hopes of Lapham . 
As for Tom's throwing himself away , I don't know . 
There's no question but he is one of the best fellows under the sun . 
He's tremendously energetic , and he has plenty of the kind of sense which we call horse but he isn't brilliant . 
No , Tom is not brilliant . 
I don't think he would get on in a profession , and he's instinctively kept out of everything of the kind . 
But he has got to do something . 
What shall he do ? He says mineral paint , and really I don't see why he shouldn't . 
If money is fairly and honestly earned , why should we pretend to care what it comes out of , when we don't really care ? That superstition is exploded everywhere . 
Oh , it isn't the paint alone , said Mrs. Corey and then she perceptibly arrested herself , and made a diversion in continuing I wish he had married some one . 
With money ? suggested her husband . 
From time to time I have attempted Tom's corruption from that side , but I suspect Tom has a conscience against it , and I rather like him for it . 
I married for love myself , said Corey , looking across the table at his wife . 
Ah , that's the worst of it , sighed the mother . 
She is insipid she is very insipid . 
In fact , I asked him to be so . 
And he was too polite I can't say that he was . 
But there is no doubt that the child is extremely pretty . 
Tom says there are two of them . 
Perhaps they will neutralise each other . 
Yes , there is another daughter , assented Mrs. Corey . 
I don't see how you can joke about such things , Bromfield , she added . 
Well , I don't either , my dear , to tell you the truth . 
Here is a son of mine whom I see reduced to making his living by a shrinkage in values . 
It's very odd , interjected Corey , that some values should have this peculiarity of shrinking . 
You never hear of values in a picture shrinking but rents , stocks , real estate all those values shrink abominably . 
Perhaps it might be argued that one should put all his values into pictures I've got a good many of mine there . 
Tom needn't earn his living , said Mrs. Corey , refusing her husband's jest . 
There's still enough for all of us . 
That is what I have sometimes urged upon Tom . 
I have proved to him that with economy , and strict attention to business , he need do nothing as long as he lives . 
Of course he would be somewhat restricted , and it would cramp the rest of us but it is a world of sacrifices and compromises . 
It appears that he wishes to do something to do something for himself . 
I am afraid that Tom is selfish . 
She saw him in a different light when she got him home to Boston but he had kept on saying the charming things , and he had not done much else . 
In fact , he had fulfilled the promise of his youth . 
It was a good trait in him that he was not actively but only passively extravagant . 
He was not adventurous with his money his tastes were as simple as an Italian's he had no expensive habits . 
In the process of time he had grown to lead a more and more secluded life . 
It was hard to get him out anywhere , even to dinner . 
His patience with their narrowing circumstances had a pathos which she felt the more the more she came into charge of their joint life . 
At times it seemed too bad that the children and their education and pleasures should cost so much . 
Tom hasn't consulted me , continued his father , but he has consulted other people . 
And he has arrived at the conclusion that mineral paint is a good thing to go into . 
He has found out all about it , and about its founder or inventor . 
It's quite impressive to hear him talk . 
And if he must do something for himself , I don't see why his egotism shouldn't as well take that form as another . 
Combined with the paint princess , it isn't so agreeable but that's only a remote possibility , for which your principal ground is your motherly solicitude . 
But even if it were probable and imminent , what could you do ? The chief consolation that we American parents have in these matters is that we can do nothing . 
If we were Europeans , even English , we should take some cognisance of our children's love affairs , and in some measure teach their young affections how to shoot . 
But it is our custom to ignore them until they have shot , and then they ignore us . 
We are altogether too delicate to arrange the marriages of our children and when they have arranged them we don't like to say anything , for fear we should only make bad worse . 
The right way is for us to school ourselves to indifference . 
That is what the young people have to do elsewhere , and that is the only logical result of our position here . 
It is absurd for us to have any feeling about what we don't interfere with . 
Oh , people do interfere with their children's marriages very often , said Mrs. Corey . 
Now , my idea is that I ought to cut Tom off with a shilling . 
That would be very simple , and it would be economical . 
But you would never consent , and Tom wouldn't mind it . 
I think our whole conduct in regard to such things is wrong , said Mrs. Corey . 
But our whole civilisation is based upon it . 
And will you go to some mother , and ask her sons in marriage for our daughters ? You would feel like a goose . 
No the only motto for us is , Hands off altogether . 
I shall certainly speak to Tom when the time comes , said Mrs. Corey . 
And I shall ask leave to be absent from your discomfiture , my dear , answered her husband . 
The son returned that afternoon , and confessed his surprise at finding his mother in Boston . 
He was so frank that she had not quite the courage to confess in turn why she had come , but trumped up an excuse . 
Well , mother , he said promptly , I have made an engagement with Mr. Lapham . 
Have you , Tom ? she asked faintly . 
He's behaved very handsomely about it . 
He says that if it appears for our common interest , he shall pay me a salary as well as a commission . 
I've talked with Uncle Jim , and he thinks it's a good opening . 
Your Uncle Jim does ? queried Mrs. Corey in amaze . 
Yes I consulted him the whole way through , and I've acted on his advice . 
This seemed an incomprehensible treachery on her brother's part . 
Yes I thought you would like to have me . 
And besides , I couldn't possibly have gone to any one so well fitted to advise me . 
In fact , the mineral paint business , however painful its interest , was , for the moment , superseded by a more poignant anxiety . 
She began to feel her way cautiously toward this . 
Have you been talking about your business with Mr. Lapham all night ? Well , pretty much , said her son , with a guiltless laugh . 
I went to see him yesterday afternoon , after I had gone over the whole ground with Uncle Jim , and Mr. Lapham asked me to go down with him and finish up . 
Down ? repeated Mrs. Corey . 
He has a cottage down there . 
At Nantasket ? Mrs. Corey knitted her brows a little . 
What in the world can a cottage at Nantasket be like ? Oh , very much like a 'cottage' anywhere . 
It has the usual allowance of red roof and veranda . 
There are the regulation rocks by the sea and the big hotels on the beach about a mile off , flaring away with electric lights and roman candles at night . 
We didn't have them at Nahant . 
No , said his mother . 
Is Mrs. Lapham well ? And her daughter ? Yes , I think so , said the young man . 
The young ladies walked me down to the rocks in the usual way after dinner , and then I came back and talked paint with Mr. Lapham till midnight . 
We didn't settle anything till this morning coming up on the boat . 
What sort of people do they seem to be at home ? What sort ? Well , I don't know that I noticed . 
Mrs. Corey permitted herself the first part of a sigh of relief and her son laughed , but apparently not at her . 
They say there's so much talk about it . 
Oh , I suppose they're very good people . 
They seemed to be on very good terms with each other . 
I suppose it's the plain sister who's reading Middlemarch . 
Plain ? Is she plain ? asked the young man , as if searching his consciousness . 
Yes , it's the older one who does the reading , apparently . 
But I don't believe that even she overdoes it . 
They like to talk better . 
They reminded me of Southern people in that . 
The young man smiled , as if amused by some of his impressions of the Lapham family . 
The living , as the country people call it , is tremendously good . 
And there was everything in the house that money could buy . 
But money has its limitations . 
Yes , there is a point where taste has to begin , she said . 
They seemed to want to apologise to me for not having more books , said Corey . 
I don't know why they should . 
The Colonel said they bought a good many books , first and last but apparently they don't take them to the sea side . 
I dare say they NEVER buy a NEW book . 
I've met some of these moneyed people lately , and they lavish on every conceivable luxury , and then borrow books , and get them in the cheap paper editions . 
I fancy that's the way with the Lapham family , said the young man , smilingly . 
But they are very good people . 
The other daughter is humorous . 
Humorous ? Mrs. Corey knitted her brows in some perplexity . 
Do you mean like Mrs. Sayre ? she asked , naming the lady whose name must come into every Boston mind when humour is mentioned . 
Oh no nothing like that . 
She never says anything that you can remember nothing in flashes or ripples nothing the least literary . 
But it's a sort of droll way of looking at things or a droll medium through which things present themselves . 
She tells what she's seen , and mimics a little . 
Oh , said Mrs. Corey coldly . 
After a moment she asked And is Miss Irene as pretty as ever ? She's a wonderful complexion , said the son unsatisfactorily . 
I shall want to be by when father and Colonel Lapham meet , he added , with a smile . 
Ah , yes , your father ! said the mother , in that way in which a wife at once compassionates and censures her husband to their children . 
Do you think it's really going to be a trial to him ? asked the young man quickly . 
No , no , I can't say it is . 
But I confess I wish it was some other business , Tom . 
Well , mother , I don't see why . 
I shouldn't at all mind its having a little mineral paint on it . 
I'll use my influence with Colonel Lapham if I ever have any to have his paint scraped off the landscape . 
I suppose you won't begin till the autumn . 
Oh yes , I shall , said the son , laughing at his mother's simple ignorance of business . 
I shall begin to morrow morning . 
To morrow morning ! Yes . 
I've had my desk appointed already , and I shall be down there at nine in the morning to take possession . 
Tom cried his mother , why do you think Mr. Lapham has taken you into business so readily ? I've always heard that it was so hard for young men to get in . 
And do you think I found it easy with him ? We had about twelve hours' solid talk . 
And you don't suppose it was any sort of personal consideration ? Why , I don't know exactly what you mean , mother . 
I suppose he likes me . 
Mrs. Corey could not say just what she meant . 
She answered , ineffectually enough Yes . 
You wouldn't like it to be a favour , would you ? I think he's a man who may be trusted to look after his own interest . 
But I don't mind his beginning by liking me . 
It'll be my own fault if I don't make myself essential to him . 
Yes , said Mrs. Corey . 
Well , demanded her husband , at their first meeting after her interview with their son , what did you say to Tom ? Very little , if anything . 
I found him with his mind made up , and it would only have distressed him if I had tried to change it . 
That is precisely what I said , my dear . 
Besides , he had talked the matter over fully with James , and seems to have been advised by him . 
Oh ! it's in regard to the paint , and not the princess , that he's made up his mind . 
Well , I think you were wise to let him alone , Anna . 
We represent a faded tradition . 
We don't really care what business a man is in , so it is large enough , and he doesn't advertise offensively but we think it fine to affect reluctance . 
Do you really feel so , Bromfield ? asked his wife seriously . 
If I get broken , I can be easily replaced . 
If Tom must go into such a business , said Mrs. Corey , I'm glad James approves of it . 
You had better consult him in regard to Tom's marrying the princess . 
There is no necessity at present for that , said Mrs. Corey , with dignity . 
After a moment , she asked , Should you feel quite so easy if it were a question of that , Bromfield ? It would be a little more personal . 
You feel about it as I do . 
Of course , we have both lived too long , and seen too much of the world , to suppose we can control such things . 
The child is good , I haven't the least doubt , and all those things can be managed so that they wouldn't disgrace us . 
But she has had a certain sort of bringing up . 
I should prefer Tom to marry a girl with another sort , and this business venture of his increases the chances that he won't . 
''Tis not so deep as a well , nor so wide as a church door , but 'twill serve . 
Well , it hasn't happened yet . 
Ah , you never can realise anything beforehand . 
Perhaps that has saved me some suffering . 
But you have at least the consolation of two anxieties at once . 
I always find that a great advantage . 
You can play one off against the other . 
Her son went down to see her off on the boat , after spending his first day at his desk in Lapham's office . 
He was in a gay humour , and she departed in a reflected gleam of his good spirits . 
He was in love with his work , and he felt the enthusiasm for it which nothing but the work we can do well inspires in us . 
He believed that he had found his place in the world , after a good deal of looking , and he had the relief , the repose , of fitting into it . 
He was in his shirt sleeves again , and his sanguine person seemed to radiate the heat with which he suffered . 
He observed that all the others lunched at twelve , and he resolved to anticipate his usual hour . 
In his office Lapham lay asleep in his arm chair , with a newspaper over his face . 
He looked red and excited , and the girl's face , which she veiled at sight of Corey , showed traces of tears . 
She slipped round him into the street . 
You'll find Dennis up there . 
But I guess you better let them go till to morrow . 
I always make it a rule to stop work when I'm done . 
Perhaps you're right , said Corey , yielding . 
Come along down as far as the boat with me . 
There's a little matter I want to talk over with you . 
It was a business matter , and related to Corey's proposed connection with the house . 
The next day the head book keeper , who lunched at the long counter of the same restaurant with Corey , began to talk with him about Lapham . 
I think about the only difference between people in this world is that some know what they want , and some don't . 
Well , now , said Walker , beating the bottom of his salt box to make the salt come out , the old man knows what he wants every time . 
And generally he gets it . 
Yes , sir , he generally gets it . 
He knows what he's about , but I'll be blessed if the rest of us do half the time . 
Anyway , we don't till he's ready to let us . 
You take my position in most business houses . 
The head book keeper knows right along pretty much everything the house has got in hand . 
I'll give you my word I don't . 
They say he had a partner once I guess he's dead . 
I wouldn't like to be the old man's partner . 
Well , you see , this paint of his is like his heart's blood . 
Better not try to joke him about it . 
I've seen people come in occasionally and try it . 
They didn't get much fun out of it . 
I suppose he thinks , suggested Corey , that if he doesn't tell , nobody else will . 
Walker took a draught of beer from his glass , and wiped the foam from his moustache . 
Oh , but he carries it too far ! It's a weakness with him . 
He's just so about everything . 
Look at the way he keeps it up about that type writer girl of his . 
You'd think she was some princess travelling incognito . 
There isn't one of us knows who she is , or where she came from , or who she belongs to . 
He brought her and her machine into the office one morning , and set 'em down at a table , and that's all there is about it , as far as we're concerned . 
Corey thought of the words he had overheard from Lapham to the girl . 
But he said , She seems to be kept pretty busy . 
Oh yes , said Walker there ain't much loafing round the place , in any of the departments , from the old man's down . 
That's just what I say . 
He's got to work just twice as hard , if he wants to keep everything in his own mind . 
But he ain't afraid of work . 
That's one good thing about him . 
And Miss Dewey has to keep step with the rest of us . 
But she don't look like one that would take to it naturally . 
Such a pretty girl as that generally thinks she does enough when she looks her prettiest . 
She's a pretty girl , said Corey , non committally . 
But I suppose a great many pretty girls have to earn their living . 
Don't any of 'em like to do it , returned the book keeper . 
They think it's a hardship , and I don't blame 'em . 
They have got a right to get married , and they ought to have the chance . 
And Miss Dewey's smart , too . 
She's as bright as a biscuit . 
I guess she's had trouble . 
I shouldn't be much more than half surprised if Miss Dewey wasn't Miss Dewey , or hadn't always been . 
Corey made no reply , as he walked beside the book keeper , who continued It's curious what a difference marriage makes in people . 
And it's just so with a woman . 
The minute you catch sight of her face , there's something in it that tells you whether she's married or not . 
What do you suppose it is ? I'm sure I don't know , said Corey , willing to laugh away the topic . 
And from what I read occasionally of some people who go about repeating their happiness , I shouldn't say that the intangible evidences were always unmistakable . 
Oh , of course , admitted Walker , easily surrendering his position . 
All signs fail in dry weather . 
Hello ! What's that ? He caught Corey by the arm , and they both stopped . 
At a corner , half a block ahead of them , the summer noon solitude of the place was broken by a bit of drama . 
A brief struggle ensued , the woman trying to free herself , and the man half coaxing , half scolding . 
He lost his footing and tumbled into a heap in the gutter . 
The woman faltered an instant , as if to see whether he was seriously hurt , and then turned and ran . 
When Corey and the book keeper re entered the office , Miss Dewey had finished her lunch , and was putting a sheet of paper into her type writer . 
LAPHAM had the pride which comes of self making , and he would not openly lower his crest to the young fellow he had taken into his business . 
Did you notice that fellow at the desk facing my type writer girl ? Well , sir , that's the son of Bromfield Corey old Phillips Corey's grandson . 
And I'll say this for him , that there isn't a man in the office that looks after his work better . 
There isn't anything he's too good for . 
He's right here at nine every morning , before the clock gets in the word . 
I guess it's his grandfather coming out in him . 
He's got charge of the foreign correspondence . 
We're pushing the paint everywhere . 
He flattered himself that he did not lug the matter in . 
He had been warned against that by his wife , but he had the right to do Corey justice , and his brag took the form of illustration . 
You take that fellow Corey . 
He's been through Harvard , and he's had about every advantage that a fellow could have . 
Been everywhere , and talks half a dozen languages like English . 
I suppose he's got money enough to live without lifting a hand , any more than his father does son of Bromfield Corey , you know . 
But the thing was in him . 
I believe the fellow would like to stick at that desk of his night and day . 
I don't know where he got it . 
I guess it must be his grandfather , old Phillips Corey it often skips a generation , you know . 
Sometimes Lapham advanced these ideas at his own table , to a guest whom he had brought to Nantasket for the night . 
Then he suffered exposure and ridicule at the hands of his wife , when opportunity offered . 
She would not let him bring Corey down to Nantasket at all . 
No , indeed ! she said . 
I am not going to have them think we're running after him . 
If he wants to see Irene , he can find out ways of doing it for himself . 
Who wants him to see Irene ? retorted the Colonel angrily . 
I do , said Mrs. Lapham . 
And I want him to see her without any of your connivance , Silas . 
I'm not going to have it said that I put my girls at anybody . 
Why don't you invite some of your other clerks ? He ain't just like the other clerks . 
He's going to take charge of a part of the business . 
Oh , indeed ! said Mrs. Lapham vexatiously . 
Then you ARE going to take a partner . 
I shall ask him down if I choose ! returned the Colonel , disdaining her insinuation . 
His wife laughed with the fearlessness of a woman who knows her husband . 
But you won't choose when you've thought it over , Si . 
Then she applied an emollient to his chafed surface . 
You just let things take their course . 
If he wants Irene , he's going to find out some way of seeing her and if he don't , all the plotting and planning in the world isn't going to make him . 
Oh , not you ! exulted his wife . 
I understand what you want . 
You want to get this fellow , who is neither partner nor clerk , down here to talk business with him . 
Well , now , you just talk business with him at the office . 
The only social attention which Lapham succeeded in offering Corey was to take him in his buggy , now and then , for a spin out over the Mill dam . 
He kept the mare in town , and on a pleasant afternoon he liked to knock off early , as he phrased it , and let the mare out a little . 
Corey understood something about horses , though in a passionless way , and he would have preferred to talk business when obliged to talk horse . 
But he deferred to his business superior with the sense of discipline which is innate in the apparently insubordinate American nature . 
He talked horse with him , and when the Colonel wished he talked house . 
More exactly , Mrs. Lapham was interviewing the carpenter , and Irene was sitting in the bow window on a trestle , and looking out at the driving . 
She saw him come up with her father , and bowed and blushed . 
Her father went on up stairs to find her mother , and Corey pulled up another trestle which he found in the back part of the room . 
The first floorings had been laid throughout the house , and the partitions had been lathed so that one could realise the shape of the interior . 
I suppose you will sit at this window a good deal , said the young man . 
Yes , I think it will be very nice . 
There's so much more going on than there is in the Square . 
It must be very interesting to you to see the house grow . 
Only it doesn't seem to grow so fast as I expected . 
Why , I'm amazed at the progress your carpenter has made every time I come . 
The girl looked down , and then lifting her eyes she said , with a sort of timorous appeal I've been reading that book since you were down at Nantasket . 
Book ? repeated Corey , while she reddened with disappointment . 
Did you like it ? I haven't got through with it yet . 
What does she think of it ? Oh , I think she likes it very well . 
I haven't heard her talk about it much . 
Do you like it ? Yes I liked it immensely . 
But it's several years since I read it . 
I didn't know it was so old . 
It's just got into the Seaside Library , she urged , with a little sense of injury in her tone . 
Oh , it hasn't been out such a very great while , said Corey politely . 
It came a little before DANIEL DERONDA . 
The girl was again silent . 
She followed the curl of a shaving on the floor with the point of her parasol . 
Do you like that Rosamond Vincy ? she asked , without looking up . 
Corey smiled in his kind way . 
I didn't suppose she was expected to have any friends . 
I can't say I liked her . 
But I don't think I disliked her so much as the author does . 
She's pretty hard on her good looking he was going to say girls , but as if that might have been rather personal , he said people . 
Yes , that's what Pen says . 
She says she doesn't give her any chance to be good . 
She says she should have been just as bad as Rosamond if she had been in her place . 
Your sister is very satirical , isn't she ? I don't know , said Irene , still intent upon the convolutions of the shaving . 
Papa thinks there's nobody that can talk like her . 
She gave the shaving a little toss from her , and took the parasol up across her lap . 
The unworldliness of the Lapham girls did not extend to their dress Irene's costume was very stylish , and she governed her head and shoulders stylishly . 
We are going to have the back room upstairs for a music room and library , she said abruptly . 
I should think that would be charming . 
We expected to have book cases , but the architect wants to build the shelves in . 
The fact seemed to be referred to Corey for his comment . 
It seems to me that would be the best way . 
They'll look like part of the room then . 
You can make them low , and hang your pictures above them . 
Yes , that's what he said . 
The girl looked out of the window in adding , I presume with nice bindings it will look very well . 
Oh , nothing furnishes a room like books . 
No. There will have to be a good many of them . 
That depends upon the size of your room and the number of your shelves . 
Oh , of course ! I presume , said Irene , thoughtfully , we shall have to have Gibbon . 
If you want to read him , said Corey , with a laugh of sympathy for an imaginable joke . 
We had a great deal about him at school . 
I believe we had one of his books . 
Mine's lost , but Pen will remember . 
The young man looked at her , and then said , seriously , You'll want Greene , of course , and Motley , and Parkman . 
What kind of writers are they ? They're historians too . 
Oh yes I remember now . 
Is it Gibbon or Gibbons ? The young man decided the point with apparently superfluous delicacy . 
There used to be so many of them , said Irene gaily . 
I used to get them mixed up with each other , and I couldn't tell them from the poets . 
Should you want to have poetry ? Yes I suppose some edition of the English poets . 
We don't any of us like poetry . 
Do you like it ? I'm afraid I don't very much , Corey owned . 
But , of course , there was a time when Tennyson was a great deal more to me than he is now . 
We had something about him at school too . 
I think I remember the name . 
I think we ought to have ALL the American poets . 
Five or six of the best you want Longfellow and Bryant and Whittier and Holmes and Emerson and Lowell . 
The girl listened attentively , as if making mental note of the names . 
And Shakespeare , she added . 
Don't you like Shakespeare's plays ? Oh yes , very much . 
I used to be perfectly crazy about his plays . 
Don't you think 'Hamlet' is splendid ? We had ever so much about Shakespeare . 
and 'King Lear , and that one that Robeson and Crane have oh yes ! 'Comedy of Errors . 
Those are the ones they usually play , said Corey . 
I presume we shall have to have Scott's works , said Irene , returning to the question of books . 
One of the girls used to think he was GREAT . 
She was always talking about Scott . 
Irene made a pretty little amiably contemptuous mouth . 
He isn't American , though ? she suggested . 
No , said Corey he's Scotch , I believe . 
Irene passed her glove over her forehead . 
I always get him mixed up with Cooper . 
Well , papa has got to get them . 
If we have a library , we have got to have books in it . 
Pen says it's perfectly ridiculous having one . 
But papa thinks whatever the architect says is right . 
He fought him hard enough at first . 
I don't see how any one can keep the poets and the historians and novelists separate in their mind . 
Of course papa will buy them if we say so . 
But I don't see how I'm ever going to tell him which ones . 
The joyous light faded out of her face and left it pensive . 
Why , if you like , said the young man , taking out his pencil , I'll put down the names we've been talking about . 
He clapped himself on his breast pockets to detect some lurking scrap of paper . 
Will you ? she cried delightedly . 
Here ! take one of my cards , and she pulled out her card case . 
The carpenter writes on a three cornered block and puts it into his pocket , and it's so uncomfortable he can't help remembering it . 
Pen says she's going to adopt the three cornered block plan with papa . 
Thank you , said Corey . 
I believe I'll use your card . 
He crossed over to her , and after a moment sat down on the trestle beside her . 
She looked over the card as he wrote . 
Those are the ones we mentioned , but perhaps I'd better add a few others . 
Oh , thank you , she said , when he had written the card full on both sides . 
He has got to get them in the nicest binding , too . 
I shall tell him about their helping to furnish the room , and then he can't object . 
She remained with the card , looking at it rather wistfully . 
Perhaps Corey divined her trouble of mind . 
If he will take that to any bookseller , and tell him what bindings he wants , he will fill the order for him . 
jdh spell checked to this point Oh , thank you very much , she said , and put the card back into her card case with great apparent relief . 
Corey did not return to his own trestle . 
She found another shaving within reach of her parasol , and began poking that with it , and trying to follow it through its folds . 
Corey watched her a while . 
You seem to have a great passion for playing with shavings , he said . 
Is it a new one ? New what ? Passion . 
I don't know , she said , dropping her eyelids , and keeping on with her effort . 
She looked shyly aslant at him . 
Perhaps you don't approve of playing with shavings ? Oh yes , I do . 
I admire it very much . 
But it seems rather difficult . 
I've a great ambition to put my foot on the shaving's tail and hold it for you . 
Well , said the girl . 
Thank you , said the young man . 
He did so , and now she ran her parasol point easily through it . 
They looked at each other and laughed . 
Would you like to try another ? he asked . 
No , I thank you , she replied . 
I think one will do . 
They both laughed again , for whatever reason or no reason , and then the young girl became sober . 
They seem to be having rather a long interview with the carpenter to day , said Irene , looking vaguely toward the ceiling . 
She turned with polite ceremony to Corey . 
I'm afraid you're letting them keep you . 
You're letting me stay , he returned . 
She bridled and bit her lip for pleasure . 
I presume they will be down before a great while . 
Don't you like the smell of the wood and the mortar ? It's so fresh . 
He bent forward and picked up from the floor the shaving with which they had been playing , and put it to his nose . 
May I offer it to you ? he asked , as if it had been one . 
Oh , thank you , thank you ! She took it from him and put it into her belt , and then they both laughed once more . 
When the elder people reached the floor where they were sitting , Corey rose and presently took his leave . 
What makes you so solemn , 'Rene ? asked Mrs. Lapham . 
Solemn ? echoed the girl . 
I'm not a BIT solemn . 
Ah , said the elder , I suspect the average is pretty low even with cultivated people . 
You don't read a great many books yourself , Tom . 
No , I don't , the young man confessed . 
I read more books when I was with Stanton , last winter , than I had since I was a boy . 
But I read them because I must there was nothing else to do . 
It wasn't because I was fond of reading . 
Still I think I read with some sense of literature and the difference between authors . 
I suppose that's the way the vast majority of people read . 
If authors were not almost necessarily recluses , and ignorant of the ignorance about them , I don't see how they could endure it . 
But occasionally we get glimpses of it . 
I suppose you found the latest publications lying all about in Lapham cottage when you were down there ? Young Corey laughed . 
It wasn't exactly cumbered with them . 
No ? To tell the truth , I don't suppose they ever buy books . 
The young ladies get novels that they hear talked of out of the circulating library . 
Had they knowledge enough to be ashamed of their ignorance ? Yes , in certain ways to a certain degree . 
It's a curious thing , this thing we call civilisation , said the elder musingly . 
We think it is an affair of epochs and of nations . 
It's really an affair of individuals . 
One brother will be civilised and the other a barbarian . 
Yet they were of polite origin , and their parents were at least respectful of the things that these young animals despised . 
I don't think that is exactly the case with the Lapham family , said the son , smiling . 
The father and mother rather apologised about not getting time to read , and the young ladies by no means scorned it . 
They are quite advanced ! They are going to have a library in their Beacon Street house . 
You , Tom ! His father dropped back in his chair and laughed . 
I recommended the standard authors , said the son . 
They are very quick , and they are shrewd and sensible . 
I have no doubt that some of the Sioux are so . 
But that is not saying that they are civilised . 
All civilisation comes through literature now , especially in our country . 
A Greek got his civilisation by talking and looking , and in some measure a Parisian may still do it . 
But we , who live remote from history and monuments , we must read or we must barbarise . 
Once we were softened , if not polished , by religion but I suspect that the pulpit counts for much less now in civilising . 
They're enormous devourers of newspapers , and theatre goers and they go a great deal to lectures . 
The Colonel prefers them with the stereopticon . 
They might get a something in that way , said the elder thoughtfully . 
Yes , I suppose one must take those things into account especially the newspapers and the lectures . 
I doubt if the theatre is a factor in civilisation among us . 
I dare say it doesn't deprave a great deal , but from what I've seen of it I should say that it was intellectually degrading . 
Perhaps they might get some sort of lift from it I don't know . 
Tom ! he added , after a moment's reflection . 
I really think I ought to see this patron of yours . 
Don't you think it would be rather decent in me to make his acquaintance ? Well , if you have the fancy , sir , said the young man . 
But there's no sort of obligation . 
Colonel Lapham would be the last man in the world to want to give our relation any sort of social character . 
The meeting will come about in the natural course of things . 
Ah , I didn't intend to propose anything immediate , said the father . 
One can't do anything in the summer , and I should prefer your mother's superintendence . 
Still , I can't rid myself of the idea of a dinner . 
It appears to me that there ought to be a dinner . 
Oh , pray don't feel that there's any necessity . 
Well , said the elder , with easy resignation , there's at least no hurry . 
I don't want to force myself on any man but it seems to me pretty queer the way he holds off . 
I should think he would take enough interest in his son to want to know something about his business . 
What is he afraid of ? demanded Lapham angrily . 
Does he think I'm going to jump at a chance to get in with him , if he gives me one ? He's mightily mistaken if he does . 
I don't want to know him . 
I never mentioned his father to him ! roared the Colonel . 
That's the way I feel about it ! Because it would spoil everything . 
I wouldn't have them think we cared the least thing in the world for their acquaintance . 
We shouldn't be a bit better off . 
We don't know the same people they do , and we don't care for the same kind of things . 
Lapham was breathless with resentment of his wife's implication . 
Don't I tell you , he gasped , that I don't want to know them ? Who began it ? They're friends of yours if they're anybody's . 
They're distant acquaintances of mine , returned Mrs. Lapham quietly and this young Corey is a clerk of yours . 
And I want we should hold ourselves so that when they get ready to make the advances we can meet them half way or not , just as we choose . 
That's what grinds me , cried her husband . 
And I made MY money . 
I haven't loafed my life away . 
Oh , it isn't what you've got , and it isn't what you've done exactly . 
Well , then , what's the difference ? None that really amounts to anything , or that need give you any trouble , if you don't think of it . 
Lapham gave a furious snort . 
And does that make him any better ? No. But it puts him where he can make the advances without demeaning himself , and it puts you where you can't . 
Now , look here , Silas Lapham ! You understand this thing as well as I do . 
You know that I appreciate you , and that I'd sooner die than have you humble yourself to a living soul . 
But I'm not going to have you coming to me , and pretending that you can meet Bromfield Corey as an equal on his own ground . 
He's got a better education than you , and if he hasn't got more brains than you , he's got different . 
And he and his wife , and their fathers and grandfathers before 'em , have always had a high position , and you can't help it . 
If you want to know them , you've got to let them make the advances . 
If you don't , all well and good . 
That was a different thing altogether . 
I didn't know who they were , or may be I should have waited . 
For I ain't going to have it on that basis . 
Who wants to have it on that basis ? retorted her husband . 
Nobody , if you don't , said Mrs. Lapham tranquilly . 
Irene had come home with the shaving in her belt , unnoticed by her father , and unquestioned by her mother . 
But her sister saw it at once , and asked her what she was doing with it . 
Oh , nothing , said Irene , with a joyful smile of self betrayal , taking the shaving carefully out , and laying it among the laces and ribbons in her drawer . 
Hadn't you better put it in water , 'Rene ? It'll be all wilted by morning , said Pen . 
You mean thing ! cried the happy girl . 
It isn't a flower ! Oh , I thought it was a whole bouquet . 
Who gave it to you ? I shan't tell you , said Irene saucily . 
Oh , well , never mind . 
Did you know Mr. Corey had been down here this afternoon , walking on the beach with me ? He wasn't he wasn't at all ! He was at the house with ME . 
There ! I've caught you fairly . 
Is that so ? drawled Penelope . 
Then I never could guess who gave you that precious shaving . 
No , you couldn't ! said Irene , flushing beautifully . 
Well , I'm not going to try , if it's no use . 
But I didn't know it had got to be the fashion to give shavings instead of flowers . 
But there's some sense in it . 
They can be used for kindlings when they get old , and you can't do anything with old flowers . 
Perhaps he'll get to sending 'em by the barrel . 
Irene laughed for pleasure in this tormenting . 
O Pen , I want to tell you how it all happened . 
Oh , he DID give it to you , then ? Well , I guess I don't care to hear . 
You shall , and you've got to ! Irene ran and caught her sister , who feigned to be going out of the room , and pushed her into a chair . 
There , now ! She pulled up another chair , and hemmed her in with it . 
And here was this shaving on the floor , that I'd been poking with my parasol To hide your embarrassment . 
Pshaw ! I wasn't a bit embarrassed . 
I was just as much at my ease ! And then he asked me to let him hold the shaving down with his foot , while I went on with my poking . 
And then he picked it up , and said it smelt like a flower . 
And then he asked if he might offer it to me just for a joke , you know . 
And I took it , and stuck it in my belt . 
And we had such a laugh ! We got into a regular gale . 
And O Pen , what do you suppose he meant by it ? She suddenly caught herself to her sister's breast , and hid her burning face on her shoulder . 
Well , there used to be a book about the language of flowers . 
Why , 'Rene ! cried the elder girl . 
You KNOW he didn't mean anything . 
He doesn't care a bit about me . 
Well , 'Rene , YOU haven't got to do ANYthing . 
That's one advantage girls have got if it IS an advantage . 
Irene's tears turned to laughing again . 
When she lifted her head it was to look into the mirror confronting them , where her beauty showed all the more brilliant for the shower that had passed over it . 
She seemed to gather courage from the sight . 
It must be awful to have to DO , she said , smiling into her own face . 
I don't see how they ever can . 
Some of 'em can't especially when there's such a tearing beauty around . 
Oh , pshaw , Pen ! you know that isn't so . 
It's a useful mouth , Penelope admitted I don't believe I could get along without it now , I've had it so long . 
It's got such a funny expression just the mate of the look in your eyes as if you were just going to say something ridiculous . 
He said , the very first time he saw you , that he knew you were humorous . 
Is it possible ? must be so , if the Grand Mogul said it . 
I've got such a stiff , prim kind of mouth , she said , drawing it down , and then looking anxiously at it . 
I hope you didn't put on that expression when he offered you the shaving . 
If you did , I don't believe he'll ever give you another splinter . 
The severe mouth broke into a lovely laugh , and then pressed itself in a kiss against Penelope's cheek . 
There ! Be done , you silly thing ! I'm not going to have you accepting ME before I've offered myself , ANYWAY . 
She freed herself from her sister's embrace , and ran from her round the room . 
Irene pursued her , in the need of hiding her face against her shoulder again . 
O Pen ! O Pen ! she cried . 
He gave it to her at the new house . 
Penelope did not choose to look up and meet her mother's grave glance . 
What do you think he meant by it ? Penelope repeated Irene's account of the affair , and her mother listened without seeming to derive much encouragement from it . 
He doesn't seem like one to flirt with her , she said at last . 
Then , after a thoughtful pause Irene is as good a girl as ever breathed , and she's a perfect beauty . 
But I should hate the day when a daughter of mine was married for her beauty . 
You're safe as far as I'm concerned , mother . 
She isn't really equal to him , Pen . 
I misdoubted that from the first , and it's been borne in upon me more and more ever since . 
I didn't know that a man fell in love with a girl's intellect , said Penelope quietly . 
He hasn't fallen in love with Irene at all . 
If he had , it wouldn't matter about the intellect . 
Penelope let the self contradiction pass . 
Perhaps he has , after all . 
No , said Mrs. Lapham . 
She pleases him when he sees her . 
But he doesn't try to see her . 
You won't let father bring him here . 
He would find excuses to come without being brought , if he wished to come , said the mother . 
But she isn't in his mind enough to make him . 
He goes away and doesn't think anything more about her . 
She's a good child , and I shall always say it but she's nothing but a child . 
No , she's got to forget him . 
Perhaps that won't be so easy . 
No , I presume not . 
And now your father has got the notion in his head , and he will move heaven and earth to bring it to pass . 
I can see that he's always thinking about it . 
The Colonel has a will of his own , observed the girl , rocking to and fro where she sat looking at her mother . 
I wish we had never met them ! cried Mrs. Lapham . 
I wish we had never thought of building ! I wish he had kept away from your father's business ! Well , it's too late now , mother , said the girl . 
Perhaps it isn't so bad as you think . 
Well , we must stand it , anyway , said Mrs. Lapham , with the grim antique Yankee submission . 
Oh yes , we've got to stand it , said Penelope , with the quaint modern American fatalism . 
X. IT was late June , almost July , when Corey took up his life in Boston again , where the summer slips away so easily . 
Vernon Street smites the sauntering observer with tender melancholy . 
But it must have appeared that its most characteristic feature was the absence of everybody he knew . 
Corey's powers had been gauged in college , and he had not given his world reason to think very differently of him since he came out of college . 
He was rated as an energetic fellow , a little indefinite in aim , with the smallest amount of inspiration that can save a man from being commonplace . 
Some of the more nervous and excitable said that Tom Corey was as sweet as he could live but this perhaps meant no more than the word alone . 
No man ever had a son less like him than Bromfield Corey . 
The clear mind which produced nothing but practical results reflected everything with charming lucidity and it must have been this which endeared Tom Corey to every one who spoke ten words with him . 
Once or twice he found time to run down to Mt . 
The summer was a dull season for the paint as well as for everything else . 
Till things should brisk up , as Lapham said , in the fall , he was letting the new house take a great deal of his time . 
AEsthetic ideas had never been intelligibly presented to him before , and he found a delight in apprehending them that was very grateful to his imaginative architect . 
It appeared that Lapham required but to understand or feel the beautiful effect intended , and he was ready to pay for it . 
His bull headed pride was concerned in a thing which the architect made him see , and then he believed that he had seen it himself , perhaps conceived it . 
In some measure the architect seemed to share his delusion , and freely said that Lapham was very suggestive . 
Mrs. Lapham , beginning with a woman's adventurousness in the unknown region , took fright at the reckless outlay at last , and refused to let her husband pass a certain limit . 
She would not be persuaded . 
I don't want you should sell it . 
And you've put more money into it now than you'll ever get out again , unless you can find as big a goose to buy it , and that isn't likely . 
No , sir ! You just stop at a hundred thousand , and don't you let him get you a cent beyond . 
Why , you're perfectly bewitched with that fellow ! You've lost your head , Silas Lapham , and if you don't look out you'll lose your money too . 
The Colonel laughed he liked her to talk that way , and promised he would hold up a while . 
But there's no call to feel anxious , Pert . 
It's only a question what to do with the money . 
I can reinvest it but I never had so much of it to spend before . 
Oh , I've made a very good thing in stocks lately . 
In stocks ? When did you take up gambling for a living ? Gambling ? Stuff ! What gambling ? Who said it was gambling ? You have many a time . 
Oh yes , buying and selling on a margin . 
But this was a bona fide transaction . 
I bought at forty three for an investment , and I sold at a hundred and seven and the money passed both times . 
Well , you better let stocks alone , said his wife , with the conservatism of her sex . 
Next time you'll buy at a hundred and seven and sell at forty three . 
Then where'll you be ? Left , admitted the Colonel . 
You better stick to paint a while yet . 
The Colonel enjoyed this too , and laughed again with the ease of a man who knows what he is about . 
A few days after that he came down to Nantasket with the radiant air which he wore when he had done a good thing in business and wanted his wife's sympathy . 
Well , what is it , Silas ? asked his wife when the time came . 
Any more big bugs wanting to go into the mineral paint business with you ? Something better than that . 
I could think of a good many better things , said his wife , with a sigh of latent bitterness . 
What's this one ? I've had a visitor . 
Who ? Can't you guess ? I don't want to try . 
Who was it ? Rogers . 
Mrs. Lapham sat down with her hands in her lap , and stared at the smile on her husband's face , where he sat facing her . 
I guess you wouldn't want to joke on that subject , Si , she said , a little hoarsely , and you wouldn't grin about it unless you had some good news . 
I don't know what the miracle is , but if you could tell quick She stopped like one who can say no more . 
I will , Persis , said her husband , and with that awed tone in which he rarely spoke of anything but the virtues of his paint . 
He came to borrow money of me , and I lent him it . 
That's the short of it . 
The long Go on , said his wife , with gentle patience . 
Well , Pert , I was never so much astonished in my life as I was to see that man come into my office . 
You might have knocked me down with I don't know what . 
Go on ! And he was as much embarrassed as I was . 
There we stood , gaping at each other , and I hadn't hardly sense enough to ask him to take a chair . 
I don't know just how we got at it . 
And I don't remember just how it was that he said he came to come to me . 
But he had got hold of a patent right that he wanted to go into on a large scale , and there he was wanting me to supply him the funds . 
Go on ! said Mrs. Lapham , with her voice further in her throat . 
I never felt the way you did about Rogers , but I know how you always did feel , and I guess I surprised him with my answer . 
He had brought along a lot of stock as security You didn't take it , Silas ! his wife flashed out . 
Yes , I did , though , said Lapham . 
We settled our business , and then we went into the old thing , from the very start . 
And we talked it all over . 
And when we got through we shook hands . 
Well , I don't know when it's done me so much good to shake hands with anybody . 
And you told him you owned up to him that you were in the wrong , Silas ? No , I didn't , returned the Colonel promptly for I wasn't . 
And before we got through , I guess he saw it the same as I did . 
Oh , no matter ! so you had the chance to show how you felt . 
But I never felt that way , persisted the Colonel . 
I've lent him the money , and I've kept his stocks . 
And he got what he wanted out of me . 
Give him back his stocks ! No , I shan't . 
He didn't come to beg . 
You needn't be troubled about his stocks . 
They're going to come up in time but just now they're so low down that no bank would take them as security , and I've got to hold them till they do rise . 
I lent him the money you kept me from spending on the house . 
Truly , Si ? Well , I'm satisfied , said Mrs. Lapham , with a deep tremulous breath . 
The Lord has been good to you , Silas , she continued solemnly . 
I've been afraid you'd die , Silas , before you got the chance but he's let you live to make it up to Rogers . 
I'm glad to be let live , said Lapham stubbornly , but I hadn't anything to make up to Milton K. Rogers . 
And if God has let me live for that Oh , say what you please , Si ! Say what you please , now you've done it ! I shan't stop you . 
You've taken the one spot the one SPECK off you that was ever there , and I'm satisfied . 
There wa'n't ever any speck there , Lapham held out , lapsing more and more into his vernacular and what I done I done for you , Persis . 
And I thank you for your own soul's sake , Silas . 
I guess my soul's all right , said Lapham . 
And I want you should promise me one thing more . 
Thought you said you were satisfied ? I am . 
But I want you should promise me this that you won't let anything tempt you anything ! to ever trouble Rogers for that money you lent him . 
No matter what happens no matter if you lose it all . 
Do you promise ? Why , I don't ever EXPECT to press him for it . 
That's what I said to myself when I lent it . 
And of course I'm glad to have that old trouble healed up . 
Well , that's all , said his wife . 
They did not celebrate his reconciliation with his old enemy for such they had always felt him to be since he ceased to be an ally by any show of joy or affection . 
It was not in their tradition , as stoical for the woman as for the man , that they should kiss or embrace each other at such a moment . 
She was content to have told him that he had done his duty , and he was content with her saying that . 
Now she should never fear for him again . 
This time he did not explicitly deny her forgiving impeachment . 
Well , it's all past and gone now , anyway and I don't want you should think anything more about it . 
He was man enough to take advantage of the high favour in which he stood when he went up to town , and to abuse it by bringing Corey down to supper . 
His wife could not help condoning the sin of disobedience in him at such a time . 
Irene liked being talked to better than talking , and when her sister was by she was always , tacitly or explicitly , referring to her for confirmation of what she said . 
She was content to sit and look pretty as she looked at the young man and listened to her sister's drolling . 
She laughed and kept glancing at Corey to make sure that he was understanding her . 
When they went out on the veranda to see the moon on the water , Penelope led the way and Irene followed . 
They did not look at the moonlight long . 
Her talk was very unliterary , and its effect seemed hardly conscious . 
She was far from epigram in her funning . 
She did not laugh when Corey stopped she made a soft cluck in her throat , as if she liked his being amused , and went on again . 
The Colonel , left alone with his wife for the first time since he had come from town , made haste to take the word . 
How came he to come down with you ? asked Mrs. Lapham . 
Who ? Rogers ? Mr. Corey . 
Corey ? Oh ! said Lapham , affecting not to have thought she could mean Corey . 
Likely ! jeered his wife , but with perfect amiability . 
It's so , protested the Colonel . 
Of course I couldn't let him do that . 
It's well for you you couldn't . 
And I couldn't do less than bring him here to tea . 
But he ain't going to stay the night unless , faltered Lapham , you want him to . 
Oh , of course , I want him to ! I guess he'll stay , probably . 
Well , you know how crowded that last boat always is , and he can't get any other now . 
Mrs. Lapham laughed at the simple wile . 
I hope you'll be just as well satisfied , Si , if it turns out he doesn't want Irene after all . 
Pshaw , Persis ! What are you always bringing that up for ? pleaded the Colonel . 
Then he fell silent , and presently his rude , strong face was clouded with an unconscious frown . 
There ! cried his wife , startling him from his abstraction . 
I see how you'd feel and I hope that you'll remember who you've got to blame . 
I'll risk it , said Lapham , with the confidence of a man used to success . 
From the veranda the sound of Penelope's lazy tone came through the closed windows , with joyous laughter from Irene and peals from Corey . 
Listen to that ! said her father within , swelling up with inexpressible satisfaction . 
That girl can talk for twenty , right straight along . 
She's better than a circus any day . 
I wonder what she's up to now . 
Oh , she's probably getting off some of those yarns of hers , or telling about some people . 
She can't step out of the house without coming back with more things to talk about than most folks would bring back from Japan . 
Sometimes I want to stop her but when she gets into one of her gales there ain't any standing up against her . 
I guess it 's lucky for Irene that she's got Pen there to help entertain her company . 
I can't ever feel down where Pen is . 
That's so , said the Colonel . 
And I guess she's got about as much culture as any of them . 
Don't you ? She reads a great deal , admitted her mother . 
She seems to be at it the whole while . 
I don't want she should injure her health , and sometimes I feel like snatchin' the books away from her . 
I don't know as it's good for a girl to read so much , anyway , especially novels . 
I don't want she should get notions . 
Oh , I guess Pen'll know how to take care of herself , said Lapham . 
But she ain't so practical as Irene . 
She's more up in the clouds more of what you may call a dreamer . 
It's only when they get to talking that you can see Pen's got twice as much brains . 
Well , said Lapham , tacitly granting this point , and leaning back in his chair in supreme content . 
Did you ever see much nicer girls anywhere ? His wife laughed at his pride . 
I presume they're as much swans as anybody's geese . 
No but honestly , now ! Oh , they'll do but don't you be silly , if you can help it , Si . 
The young people came in , and Corey said it was time for his boat . 
Mrs. Lapham pressed him to stay , but he persisted , and he would not let the Colonel send him to the boat he said he would rather walk . 
Outside , he pushed along toward the boat , which presently he could see lying at her landing in the bay , across the sandy tract to the left of the hotels . 
From time to time he almost stopped in his rapid walk , as a man does whose mind is in a pleasant tumult and then he went forward at a swifter pace . 
She's charming ! he said , and he thought he had spoken aloud . 
He found himself floundering about in the deep sand , wide of the path he got back to it , and reached the boat just before she started . 
Once some people who stood near him edged suddenly and fearfully away , and then he suspected himself of having laughed outright . 
But I was thinking whether you were not perhaps right in your impression that it might be well for you to make Colonel Lapham's acquaintance before a great while . 
Has he been suggesting it in any way ? asked Bromfield Corey , laying aside his book and taking his lean knee between his clasped hands . 
Oh , not at all ! the young man hastened to reply . 
I was merely thinking whether it might not begin to seem intentional , your not doing it . 
If I had been left quite to my own lawless impulses , I think I should have called upon your padrone at once . 
Do you think so ? asked the young man . 
But you know I don't pretend to be an authority in such matters . 
As far as they go , I am always in the hands of your mother and you children . 
I'm very sorry , sir . 
I had no idea I was over ruling your judgment . 
I only wanted to spare you a formality that didn't seem quite a necessity yet . 
I'm very sorry , he said again , and this time with more comprehensive regret . 
I shouldn't like to have seemed remiss with a man who has been so considerate of me . 
They are all very good natured . 
I didn't imagine your doing it at once , sir . 
How does their new house get on ? I believe they expect to be in it before New Year . 
Will they be a great addition to society ? asked Bromfield Corey , with unimpeachable seriousness . 
I don't quite know what you mean , returned the son , a little uneasily . 
Ah , I see that you do , Tom . 
No one can help feeling that they are all people of good sense and right ideas . 
Oh , that won't do . 
If society took in all the people of right ideas and good sense , it would expand beyond the calling capacity of its most active members . 
Even your mother's social conscientiousness could not compass it . 
Society is a very different sort of thing from good sense and right ideas . 
It is based upon them , of course , but the airy , graceful , winning superstructure which we all know demands different qualities . 
Have your friends got these qualities , which may be felt , but not defined ? The son laughed . 
To tell you the truth , sir , I don't think they have the most elemental ideas of society , as we understand it . 
I don't believe Mrs. Lapham ever gave a dinner . 
And with all that money ! sighed the father . 
I don't believe they have the habit of wine at table . 
I suspect that when they don't drink tea and coffee with their dinner , they drink ice water . 
Horrible ! said Bromfield Corey . 
It appears to me that this defines them . 
There are people who give dinners , and who are not cognoscible . 
But people who have never yet given a dinner , how is society to assimilate them ? It digests a great many people , suggested the young man . 
Yes but they have always brought some sort of sauce piquante with them . 
Now , as I understand you , these friends of yours have no such sauce . 
Oh , I don't know about that ! cried the son . 
Oh , rude , native flavours , I dare say . 
But that isn't what I mean . 
Well , then , they must spend . 
There is no other way for them to win their way to general regard . 
We must have the Colonel elected to the Ten O'clock Club , and he must put himself down in the list of those willing to entertain . 
Any one can manage a large supper . 
Yes , I see a gleam of hope for him in that direction . 
In the morning Bromfield Corey asked his son whether he should find Lapham at his place as early as eleven . 
I think you might find him even earlier . 
I've never been there before him . 
I doubt if the porter is there much sooner . 
Well , suppose I go with you , then ? Why , if you like , sir , said the son , with some deprecation . 
Oh , the question is , will HE like ? I think he will , sir and the father could see that his son was very much pleased . 
Lapham was rending an impatient course through the morning's news when they appeared at the door of his inner room . 
He looked up from the newspaper spread on the desk before him , and then he stood up , making an indifferent feint of not knowing that he knew Bromfield Corey by sight . 
Good morning , Colonel Lapham , said the son , and Lapham waited for him to say further , I wish to introduce my father . 
Lapham made his visitor speak first by waiting for him to do so . 
I'm glad to make your acquaintance , Colonel Lapham , and I ought to have come sooner to do so . 
My father in your place would have expected it of a man in my place at once , I believe . 
But I can't feel myself altogether a stranger as it is . 
I hope Mrs. Lapham is well ? And your daughter ? Thank you , said Lapham , they're quite well . 
They were very kind to my wife Oh , that was nothing ! cried Lapham . 
There's nothing Mrs. Lapham likes better than a chance of that sort . 
Mrs. Corey and the young ladies well ? Very well , when I heard from them . 
Yes , so I understood , said Lapham , with a nod toward the son . 
I believe Mr. Corey , here , told Mrs. Lapham . 
He leaned back in his chair , stiffly resolute to show that he was not incommoded by the exchange of these civilities . 
Yes , said Bromfield Corey . 
Tom has had the pleasure which I hope for of seeing you all . 
Well , sir , replied Lapham , softening for the first time with this approach to business , I guess it will be our own fault if we don't . 
By the way , Corey , he added , to the younger man , as he gathered up some letters from his desk , here's something in your line . 
Spanish or French , I guess . 
I'll run them over , said Corey , taking them to his desk . 
His father made an offer to rise . 
Don't go , said Lapham , gesturing him down again . 
I just wanted to get him away a minute . 
I don't know as you care You make me very happy , said Bromfield Corey . 
I've always had the idea that there was something in my son , if he could only find the way to work it out . 
And he seems to have gone into your business for the love of it . 
He went to work in the right way , sir ! He told me about it . 
And that paint is a thing that will bear looking into . 
You might think he had invented it , if you heard him celebrating it . 
Is that so ? demanded Lapham , pleased through and through . 
Well , there ain't any other way . 
You've got to believe in a thing before you can put any heart in it . 
Why , I had a partner in this thing once , along back just after the war , and he used to be always wanting to tinker with something else . 
'Why , says I , 'you've got the best thing in God's universe now . 
Why ain't you satisfied ? I had to get rid of him at last . 
No , sir , you've got to believe in a thing . 
And I believe in your son . 
And I don't mind telling you that , so far as he's gone , he's a success . 
That's very kind of you . 
Lapham expanded with profound self satisfaction . 
Yes , sir , when your son proposed to take hold here , I didn't have much faith in his ideas , that's the truth . 
But I had faith in him , and I saw that he meant business from the start . 
I could see it was born in him . 
I'm afraid he didn't inherit it directly from me , said Bromfield Corey but it's in the blood , on both sides . 
Well , sir , we can't help those things , said Lapham compassionately . 
Some of us have got it , and some of us haven't . 
The idea is to make the most of what we HAVE got . 
Oh yes that is the idea . 
And you can't ever tell what's in you till you try . 
Why , when I started this thing , I didn't more than half understand my own strength . 
I wouldn't have said , looking back , that I could have stood the wear and tear of what I've been through . 
But I developed as I went along . 
It's just like exercising your muscles in a gymnasium . 
You can lift twice or three times as much after you've been in training a month as you could before . 
And I can see that it's going to be just so with your son . 
His going through college won't hurt him , he'll soon slough all that off , and his bringing up won't don't be anxious about it . 
I noticed in the army that some of the fellows that had the most go ahead were fellows that hadn't ever had much more to do than girls before the war broke out . 
Your son will get along . 
He's a good business man , and he's a fine fellow . 
MUST you go ? asked Lapham , as Bromfield Corey now rose more resolutely . 
Well , glad to see you . 
It was natural you should want to come and see what he was about , and I'm glad you did . 
I should have felt just so about it . 
Here is some of our stuff , he said , pointing out the various packages in his office , including the Persis Brand . 
Ah , that's very nice , very nice indeed , said his visitor . 
That colour through the jar very rich delicious . 
Is Persis Brand a name ? Lapham blushed . 
I don't know as you saw an interview that fellow published in the Events a while back ? What is the Events ? Well , it's that new paper Witherby's started . 
No , said Bromfield Corey , I haven't seen it . 
I read The Daily , he explained by which he meant The Daily Advertiser , the only daily there is in the old fashioned Bostonian sense . 
He put a lot of stuff in my mouth that I never said , resumed Lapham but that's neither here nor there , so long as you haven't seen it . 
Here's the department your son's in , and he showed him the foreign labels . 
Then he took him out into the warehouse to see the large packages . 
I shall always be glad to see you . 
There ain't a great deal doing at this season . 
Bromfield Corey thanked him , and let his hand remain perforce in Lapham's lingering grasp . 
If you ever like to ride after a good horse the Colonel began . 
Oh , no , no , no thank you ! The better the horse , the more I should be scared . 
Tom has told me of your driving ! Ha , ha , ha ! laughed the Colonel . 
Well ! every one to his taste . 
Well , good morning , sir ! and he suffered him to go . 
Who is the old man blowing to this morning ? asked Walker , the book keeper , making an errand to Corey's desk . 
Oh ! That your father ? I thought he must be one of your Italian correspondents that you'd been showing round , or Spanish . 
Lapham walked back through the outer office to his own room without looking at Corey , and during the day he spoke to him only of business matters . 
That must have been his way of letting Corey see that he was not overcome by the honour of his father's visit . 
I've seen the last of Rogers for one while . 
He hesitated , to give the fact an effect of no importance . 
Corey's father called this morning . 
Did he ? said Mrs. Lapham , willing to humour his feint of indifference . 
Did HE want to borrow some money too ? Not as I understood . 
Lapham was smoking at great ease , and his wife had some crocheting on the other side of the lamp from him . 
The girls were on the piazza looking at the moon on the water again . 
There's no man in it to night , Penelope said , and Irene laughed forlornly . 
What DID he want , then ? asked Mrs. Lapham . 
Oh , I don't know . 
Seemed to be just a friendly call . 
Said he ought to have come before . 
Mrs. Lapham was silent a while . 
Then she said Well , I hope you're satisfied now . 
Lapham rejected the sympathy too openly offered . 
I don't know about being satisfied . 
I wa'n't in any hurry to see him . 
His wife permitted him this pretence also . 
What sort of a person is he , anyway l Well , not much like his son . 
There's no sort of business about him . 
I don't know just how you'd describe him . 
He's tall and he's got white hair and a moustache and his fingers are very long and limber . 
I couldn't help noticing them as he sat there with his hands on the top of his cane . 
Didn't seem to be dressed very much , and acted just like anybody . 
Guess I did most of the talking . 
Said he was glad I seemed to be getting along so well with his son . 
He asked after you and Irene and he said he couldn't feel just like a stranger . 
Said you had been very kind to his wife . 
Of course I turned it off . 
Don't know as I ever saw a much pleasanter man . 
Dunno but what he's about the pleasantest man I ever did see . 
God , who made us so much like himself , but out of the dust , alone knows when that struggle will end . 
A cloudy vision of something unpurchasable , where he had supposed there was nothing , had cowed him in spite of the burly resistance of his pride . 
I don't see why he shouldn't be pleasant , said Mrs. Lapham . 
He's never done anything else . 
Lapham looked up consciously , with an uneasy laugh . 
Pshaw , Persis ! you never forget anything ? Oh , I've got more than that to remember . 
I suppose you asked him to ride after the mare ? Well , said Lapham , reddening guiltily , he said he was afraid of a good horse . 
Then , of course , you hadn't asked him . 
Mrs. Lapham crocheted in silence , and her husband leaned back in his chair and smoked . 
At last he said , I'm going to push that house forward . 
There's no reason why we shouldn't be in it by Thanksgiving . 
I don't believe in moving in the dead of winter . 
We can wait till spring . 
We're very comfortable in the old place , answered his wife . 
What's the difference between our asking them and their asking us ? demanded the Colonel sulkily . 
Oh , well ! If you don t see ! Well , I DON'T see . 
But I don't want to ask them to the house . 
I suppose , if I want to , I can invite him down to a fish dinner at Taft's . 
Mrs. Lapham fell back in her chair , and let her work drop in her lap with that Tckk ! in which her sex knows how to express utter contempt and despair . 
But I see I can't . 
I haven't done anything yet . 
I can't ask your advice about anything any more without having you fly out . 
Confound it ! I shall do as I please after this . 
He's crazy to get in with those people , and I shall have a perfect battle to keep him within bounds . 
Well , Persis , ma'am , you can't say but what you began it , said Penelope . 
Oh yes , I began it , confessed Mrs. Lapham . 
She added tremulously Perhaps he IS right . 
I should have said so last year and I don't know what it is keeps me from saying so now . 
I suppose I know a little more about things than I did and your father's being so bent on it sets me all in a twitter . 
He thinks his money can do everything . 
Well , I don't say but what it can , a good many . 
And 'Rene is as good a child as ever there was and I don't see but what she's pretty appearing enough to suit any one . 
She's pretty behaved , too and she IS the most capable girl . 
And look at the way she does , through the whole house ! She can't seem to go into a room without the things fly right into their places . 
And if she had to do it to morrow , she could make all her own dresses a great deal better than them we pay to do it . 
I don't say but what he's about as nice a fellow as ever stepped . 
But there ! I'm ashamed of going on so . 
But when it comes to myself , I see how hard it is for him to rest quiet . 
I'm afraid we shall all do something we'll repent of afterwards . 
Well , ma'am , said Penelope , I don't intend to do anything wrong but if I do , I promise not to be sorry for it . 
And I think I wouldn't be sorry for it beforehand , if I were in your place , mother . 
Let the Colonel go on ! He likes to manoeuvre , and he isn't going to hurt any one . 
The Corey family can take care of themselves , I guess . 
She laughed in her throat , drawing down the corners of her mouth , and enjoying the resolution with which her mother tried to fling off the burden of her anxieties . 
Pen ! I believe you're right . 
You always do see things in such a light ! There ! I don't care if he brings him down every day . 
Well , ma'am , said Pen , I don't believe 'Rene would , either . 
She's just so indifferent ! The Colonel slept badly that night , and in the morning Mrs. Lapham came to breakfast without him . 
Your father ain't well , she reported . 
He's had one of his turns . 
I should have thought he had two or three of them , said Penelope , by the stamping round I heard . 
Isn't he coming to breakfast ? Not just yet , said her mother . 
He's asleep , and he'll be all right if he gets his nap out . 
I don't want you girls should make any great noise . 
Oh , we'll be quiet enough , returned Penelope . 
Well , I'm glad the Colonel isn't sojering . 
At first I thought he might be sojering . 
She broke into a laugh , and , struggling indolently with it , looked at her sister . 
He'll be well enough to go up on the ten o'clock boat , said the mother sharply . 
I think papa works too hard all through the summer . 
Why don't you make him take a rest , mamma ? asked Irene . 
Oh , take a rest ! The man slaves harder every year . 
It used to be so that he'd take a little time off now and then but I declare , he hardly ever seems to breathe now away from his office . 
And this year he says he doesn't intend to go down to Lapham , except to see after the works for a few days . 
I don't know what to do with the man any more ! Seems as if the more money he got , the more he wanted to get . 
It scares me to think what would happen to him if he lost it . 
I know one thing , concluded Mrs. Lapham . 
He shall not go back to the office to day . 
Then he won't go up on the ten o'clock boat , Pen reminded her . 
You can just drive over to the hotel as soon as you're through , girls , and telegraph that he's not well , and won't be at the office till to morrow . 
I'm not going to have them send anybody down here to bother him . 
That's a blow , said Pen . 
I didn't know but they might send she looked demurely at her sister Dennis ! Mamma ! cried Irene . 
Well , I declare , there's no living with this family any more , said Penelope . 
There , Pen , be done ! commanded her mother . 
But perhaps she did not intend to forbid her teasing . 
It gave a pleasant sort of reality to the affair that was in her mind , and made what she wished appear not only possible but probable . 
I might as well have gone as not , he repeated , till his wife lost her patience . 
Well , you shall go to morrow , Silas , if you have to be carried to the boat . 
I declare , said Penelope , the Colonel don't pet worth a cent . 
The six o'clock boat brought Corey . 
The girls were sitting on the piazza , and Irene saw him first . 
O Pen ! she whispered , with her heart in her face and Penelope had no time for mockery before he was at the steps . 
I hope Colonel Lapham isn't ill , he said , and they could hear their mother engaged in a moral contest with their father indoors . 
Go and put on your coat ! I say you shall ! It don't matter HOW he sees you at the office , shirt sleeves or not . 
You're in a gentleman's house now or you ought to be and you shan't see company in your dressing gown . 
Penelope hurried in to subdue her mother's anger . 
Oh , he's very much better , thank you ! said Irene , speaking up loudly to drown the noise of the controversy . 
I'm glad of that , said Corey , and when she led him indoors the vanquished Colonel met his visitor in a double breasted frock coat , which he was still buttoning up . 
You better go down , said the mother . 
She'd better try to get along without me , mother , said Penelope soberly . 
I can't always be with them . 
Well , replied Mrs. Lapham , then I must . 
There'll be a perfect Quaker meeting down there . 
Oh , I guess 'Rene will find something to say if you leave her to herself . 
Or if she don't , HE must . 
It'll be all right for you to go down when you get ready but I shan't go till toward the last . 
If he's coming here to see Irene and I don't believe he's come on father's account he wants to see her and not me . 
If she can't interest him alone , perhaps he'd as well find it out now as any time . 
At any rate , I guess you'd better make the experiment . 
You'll know whether it's a success if he comes again . 
Well , said the mother , may be you're right . 
It does seem as if he did mean something , after all . 
Mrs. Lapham did not hasten to return to her guest . 
She did with her daughter as her mother would have done with her . 
Where Penelope sat with her book , she heard the continuous murmur of voices below , and after a long interval she heard her mother descend . 
She did not read the open book that lay in her lap , though she kept her eyes fast on the print . 
But she remained in her room till it was nearly time for Corey to return to his boat . 
When they were alone again , Irene made a feint of scolding her for leaving her to entertain Mr. Corey . 
Why ! didn't you have a pleasant call ? asked Penelope . 
Irene threw her arms round her . 
Oh , it was a SPLENDID call ! I didn't suppose I could make it go off so well . 
We talked nearly the whole time about you ! I don't think THAT was a very interesting subject . 
He kept asking about you . 
You don't know how much he thinks of you , Pen . 
O Pen ! what do you think made him come ? Do you think he really did come to see how papa was ? Irene buried her face in her sister's neck . 
Penelope stood with her arms at her side , submitting . 
Well , she said , I don't think he did , altogether . 
Irene , all glowing , released her . 
But it seemed as if it would be thanking him for coming to see me . 
Ought I to have asked him to come again , when he said good night ? I didn't I couldn't . 
No I know he hasn't . 
But if he if he should ? Then I should think he wanted to . 
Oh , would you WOULD you ? Oh , how good you always are , Pen ! And you always say what you think . 
I wish there was some one coming to see you too . 
That's all that I don't like about it . 
Perhaps He was telling about his friend there in Texas Well , said Penelope , his friend couldn't call often from Texas . 
You needn't ask Mr. Corey to trouble about me , 'Rene . 
I think I can manage to worry along , if you're satisfied . 
Oh , I AM , Pen . 
When do you suppose he'll come again ? Irene pushed some of Penelope's things aside on the dressing case , to rest her elbow and talk at ease . 
Penelope came up and put them back . 
Well , not to night , she said and if that's what you're sitting up for Irene caught her round the neck again , and ran out of the room . 
The Colonel was packed off on the eight o'clock boat the next morning but his recovery did not prevent Corey from repeating his visit in a week . 
This time Irene came radiantly up to Penelope's room , where she had again withdrawn herself . 
You must come down , Pen , she said . 
He's asked if you're not well , and mamma says you've got to come . 
After that Penelope helped Irene through with her calls , and talked them over with her far into the night after Corey was gone . 
But when the impatient curiosity of her mother pressed her for some opinion of the affair , she said , You know as much as I do , mother . 
Don't he ever say anything to you about her praise her up , any ? He's never mentioned Irene to me . 
He hasn't to me , either , said Mrs. Lapham , with a sigh of trouble . 
Then what makes him keep coming ? I can't tell you . 
One thing , he says there isn't a house open in Boston where he's acquainted . 
Wait till some of his friends get back , and then if he keeps coming , it'll be time to inquire . 
Well ! said the mother but as the weeks passed she was less and less able to attribute Corey's visits to his loneliness in town , and turned to her husband for comfort . 
Silas , I don't know as we ought to let young Corey keep coming so . 
I don't quite like it , with all his family away . 
He's of age , said the Colonel . 
He can go where he pleases . 
It don't matter whether his family's here or not . 
But to hear you talk , you'd think those Coreys were too good for this world , and we wa'n't fit for 'em to walk on . 
I'm not going to have 'em say we took an advantage of their being away and tolled him on . 
I should like to HEAR 'em say it ! cried Lapham . 
Or anybody ! Well , said his wife , relinquishing this point of anxiety , I can't make out whether he cares anything for her or not . 
And Pen can't tell either or else she won't . 
Oh , I guess he cares for her , fast enough , said the Colonel . 
I can't make out that he's said or done the first thing to show it . 
Well , I was better than a year getting my courage up . 
Oh , that was different , said Mrs. Lapham , in contemptuous dismissal of the comparison , and yet with a certain fondness . 
I guess , if he cared for her , a fellow in his position wouldn't be long getting up his courage to speak to Irene . 
Lapham brought his fist down on the table between them . 
He ain't the fellow to take on any airs but if he ever tries it with me , I'll send him to the right about mighty quick . 
I'll have a talk with him , if No , no don't do that ! implored his wife . 
I don't know as I meant ANYthing . 
He's just as unassuming as he can be , and I think Irene's a match for anybody . 
You just let things go on . 
You never can tell how it is with young people . 
COREY returned with her daughters in the early days of October , having passed three or four weeks at Intervale after leaving Bar Harbour . 
They were somewhat browner than they were when they left town in June , but they were not otherwise changed . 
Oh , it seems to have been going on , and your father has never written a word about it , she said , shaking her head . 
It would only have worried you . 
He could not have stopped Tom you couldn't , when you came home to do it . 
I dare say papa didn't know much about it , suggested Lily . 
It is a serious matter always to the women of his family when a young man gives them cause to suspect that he is interested in some other woman . 
With the Coreys it was something more than an affair of sentiment . 
Perhaps , urged their mother , it would not be so bad . 
She seemed an affectionate little thing with her mother , without a great deal of character though she was so capable about some things . 
Oh , she'll be an affectionate little thing with Tom too , you may be sure , said Nanny . 
And that characterless capability becomes the most in tense narrow mindedness . 
She'll think we were against her from the beginning . 
She has no cause for that , Lily interposed , and we shall not give her any . 
Yes , we shall , retorted Nanny . 
We can't help it and if we can't , her own ignorance would be cause enough . 
I can't feel that she's altogether ignorant , said Mrs. Corey justly . 
Of course she can read and write , admitted Nanny . 
I can't imagine what he finds to talk about with her , said Lily . 
Oh , THAT'S very simple , returned her sister . 
They talk about themselves , with occasional references to each other . 
I have heard people 'going on' on the hotel piazzas . 
And she ends by saying that perhaps he does not like people to tat , or knit , or embroider , or whatever . 
And That will do , Nanny , said her mother . 
Oh , disgusting ! Disgusting ? Not at all ! protested her sister . 
It's very amusing when you see it , and when you do it It's always a mystery what people see in each other , observed Mrs. Corey severely . 
Yes , Nanny admitted , but I don't know that there is much comfort for us in the application . 
No , there isn't , said her mother . 
The most that we can do is to hope for the best till we know the worst . 
Of course we shall make the best of the worst when it comes . 
Yes , and perhaps it would not be so very bad . 
I was saying to your father when I was here in July that those things can always be managed . 
You must face them as if they were nothing out of the way , and try not to give any cause for bitterness among ourselves . 
But I don't believe in too much resignation beforehand . 
It amounts to concession , said Nanny . 
Of course we should oppose it in all proper ways , returned her mother . 
Lily had ceased to discuss the matter . 
In virtue of her artistic temperament , she was expected not to be very practical . 
It was her mother and her sister who managed , submitting to the advice and consent of Corey what they intended to do . 
Your father wrote me that he had called on Colonel Lapham at his place of business , said Mrs. Corey , seizing her first chance of approaching the subject with her son . 
A dinner was father's idea , but he came down to a call , at my suggestion . 
Oh , said Mrs. Corey , in a tone of relief , as if the statement threw a new light on the fact that Corey had suggested the visit . 
He said so little about it in his letter that I didn't know just how it came about . 
I thought it was right they should meet , explained the son , and so did father . 
I was glad that I suggested it , afterward it was extremely gratifying to Colonel Lapham . 
Oh , it was quite right in every way . 
I suppose you have seen something of the family during the summer . 
Yes , a good deal . 
I've been down at Nantasket rather often . 
Mrs. Corey let her eyes droop . 
Then she asked Are they well ? Yes , except Lapham himself , now and then . 
I went down once or twice to see him . 
Then , of course , it will be very handsome . 
I suppose the young ladies are very much taken up with it and Mrs. Lapham . 
I don't think the young ladies care so much about it . 
It must be for them . 
Aren't they ambitious ? asked Mrs. Corey , delicately feeling her way . 
Her son thought a while . 
Then he answered with a smile No , I don't really think they are . 
They are unambitious , I should say . 
Mrs. Corey permitted herself a long breath . 
But her son added , It's the parents who are ambitious for them , and her respiration became shorter again . 
They're very simple , nice girls , pursued Corey . 
I think you'll like the elder , when you come to know her . 
When you come to know her . 
The words implied an expectation that the two families were to be better acquainted . 
Then she is more intellectual than her sister ? Mrs. Corey ventured . 
Intellectual ? repeated her son . 
No that isn't the word , quite . 
Though she certainly has more mind . 
The younger seemed very sensible . 
Oh , sensible , yes . 
And as practical as she's pretty . 
She can do all sorts of things , and likes to be doing them . 
Don't you think she's an extraordinary beauty ? Yes yes , she is , said Mrs. Corey , at some cost . 
She's good , too , said Corey , and perfectly innocent and transparent . 
I think you will like her the better the more you know her . 
I thought her very nice from the beginning , said the mother heroically and then nature asserted itself in her . 
But I should be afraid that she might perhaps be a little bit tiresome at last her range of ideas seemed so extremely limited . 
Yes , that's what I was afraid of . 
But , as a matter of fact , she isn't . 
She interests you by her very limitations . 
You can see the working of her mind , like that of a child . 
She isn't at all conscious even of her beauty . 
I don't believe young men can tell whether girls are conscious or not , said Mrs. Corey . 
But I am not saying the Miss Laphams are not Her son sat musing , with an inattentive smile on his face . 
What is it ? Oh ! nothing . 
I was thinking of Miss Lapham and something she was saying . 
She's very droll , you know . 
The elder sister ? Yes , you told me that . 
Can you see the workings of her mind too ? No she's everything that's unexpected . 
Corey fell into another reverie , and smiled again but he did not offer to explain what amused him , and his mother would not ask . 
I don't know what to make of his admiring the girl so frankly , she said afterward to her husband . 
That couldn't come naturally till after he had spoken to her , and I feel sure that he hasn't yet . 
You women haven't risen yet it's an evidence of the backwardness of your sex to a conception of the Bismarck idea in diplomacy . 
If a man praises one woman , you still think he's in love with another . 
Do you mean that because Tom didn't praise the elder sister so much , he HAS spoken to HER ? Mrs. Corey refused the consequence , saying that it did not follow . 
Besides , he did praise her . 
You ought to be glad that matters are in such good shape , then . 
At any rate , you can do absolutely nothing . 
Oh ! I know it , sighed Mrs. Corey . 
I wish Tom would be a little opener with me . 
He's as open as it's in the nature of an American born son to be with his parents . 
I dare say if you'd asked him plumply what he meant in regard to the young lady , he would have told you if he knew . 
Why , don't you think he does know , Bromfield ? I'm not at all sure he does . 
You women think that because a young man dangles after a girl , or girls , he's attached to them . 
It doesn't at all follow . 
He dangles because he must , and doesn't know what to do with his time , and because they seem to like it . 
I dare say that Tom has dangled a good deal in this instance because there was nobody else in town . 
Do you really think so ? I throw out the suggestion . 
And it strikes me that a young lady couldn't do better than stay in or near Boston during the summer . 
Most of the young men are here , kept by business through the week , with evenings available only on the spot , or a few miles off . 
What was the proportion of the sexes at the seashore and the mountains ? Oh , twenty girls at least for even an excuse of a man . 
You see , I am right in one part of my theory . 
Why shouldn't I be right in the rest ? I wish you were . 
And yet I can't say that I do . 
Those things are very serious with girls . 
I shouldn't like Tom to have been going to see those people if he meant nothing by it . 
And you wouldn't like it if he did . 
You are difficult , my dear . 
Her husband pulled an open newspaper toward him from the table . 
Don't go to reading , please , Bromfield ! I am really worried about this matter I must know how much it means . 
I can't let it go on so . 
I don't see how you can rest easy without knowing . 
I don't in the least know what's going to become of me when I die and yet I sleep well , replied Bromfield Corey , putting his newspaper aside . 
Ah ! but this is a very different thing . 
The situation hasn't changed at all . 
Yes , it has it has continued the same , said Mrs. Corey , again expressing the fact by a contradiction in terms . 
I think I must ask Tom outright . 
You know you can't do that , my dear . 
Then why doesn't he tell us ? Ah , that's what HE can't do , if he's making love to Miss Irene that's her name , I believe on the American plan . 
He will tell us after he has told HER . 
That was the way I did . 
Don't ignore our own youth , Anna . 
It was a long while ago , I'll admit . 
It was very different , said Mrs. Corey , a little shaken . 
I dare say Mamma Lapham knows whether Tom is in love with her daughter or not and no doubt Papa Lapham knows it at second hand . 
But we shall not know it until the girl herself does . 
Was it I ? for a year or more . 
Then you think it hasn't come to an understanding with them yet ? An understanding ? Oh , probably . 
An explanation , then ? The only logical inference from what we've been saying is that it hasn't . 
But I don't ask you to accept it on that account . 
Thank you , my dear then I think I'll smoke too , said Bromfield Corey , lighting a cigar . 
She left him in peace , and she made no further attempt upon her son's confidence . 
But she was not inactive for that reason . 
She said to her daughters that she had always been a little ashamed of using her acquaintance with them to get money for her charity , and then seeming to drop it . 
Yes , business is business , said Nanny , with a laugh . 
Do you wish us to go with you again ? No I will go alone this time , replied the mother with dignity . 
Her coupe now found its way to Nankeen Square without difficulty , and she sent up a card , which Mrs. Lapham received in the presence of her daughter Penelope . 
I presume I've got to see her , she gasped . 
Well , don't look so guilty , mother , joked the girl you haven't been doing anything so VERY wrong . 
It seems as if I HAD . 
I don't know what's come over me . 
I wasn't afraid of the woman before , but now I don't seem to feel as if I could look her in the face . 
He's been coming here of his own accord , and I fought against his coming long enough , goodness knows . 
I didn't want him to come . 
And as far forth as that goes , we're as respectable as they are and your father's got twice their money , any day . 
We've no need to go begging for their favour . 
I guess they were glad enough to get him in with your father . 
Mrs. Lapham had been fussing distractedly with her hair and ribbons , in preparation for her encounter with Mrs. Corey . 
She now drew in a long quivering breath , stared at her daughter without seeing her , and hurried downstairs . 
In spite of as brave a spirit and as good a conscience as woman need have , Mrs. Lapham cringed inwardly , and tremulously wondered what her visitor had come for . 
No she's out , just now , said Mrs. Lapham . 
I don't know just when she'll be in . 
She went to get a book . 
And here she turned red again , knowing that Irene had gone to get the book because it was one that Corey had spoken of . 
Oh ! I'm sorry , said Mrs. Corey . 
I had hoped to see her . 
And your other daughter , whom I never met ? Penelope ? asked Mrs. Lapham , eased a little . 
I will go and call her . 
If Mrs. Lapham had rung in the parlour , her second girl would have gone to the street door to see who was there . 
She went upstairs for Penelope herself , and the girl , after some rebellious derision , returned with her . 
You young ladies will be glad to be getting into your new house , she said politely . 
I don't know , said Penelope . 
We're so used to this one . 
Mrs. Corey looked a little baffled , but she said sympathetically , Of course , you will be sorry to leave your old home . 
Mrs. Lapham could not help putting in on behalf of her daughters I guess if it was left to the girls to say , we shouldn't leave it at all . 
Oh , indeed ! said Mrs. Corey are they so much attached ? But I can quite understand it . 
My children would be heart broken too if we were to leave the old place . 
But you must think of the lovely new house , and the beautiful position . 
Yes , I suppose we shall get used to them too , said Penelope , in response to this didactic consolation . 
Oh , I could even imagine your getting very fond of them , pursued Mrs. Corey patronisingly . 
My son has told me of the lovely outlook you're to have over the water . 
He thinks you have such a beautiful house . 
I believe he had the pleasure of meeting you all there when he first came home . 
Yes , I think he was our first visitor . 
Yes , said the girl , he's been there several times with father and he wouldn't be allowed to overlook any of its good points . 
Her mother took a little more courage from her daughter's tranquillity . 
The girls make such fun of their father's excitement about his building , and the way he talks it into everybody . 
Oh , indeed ! said Mrs. Corey , with civil misunderstanding and inquiry . 
Penelope flushed , and her mother went on I tell him he's more of a child about it than any of them . 
Young people are very philosophical nowadays , remarked Mrs. Corey . 
Yes , indeed , said Mrs. Lapham . 
I tell them they've always had everything , so that nothing's a surprise to them . 
It was different with us in our young days . 
Yes , said Mrs. Corey , without assenting . 
I mean the Colonel and myself , explained Mrs. Lapham . 
Oh yes yes ! said Mrs. Corey . 
I'm sure , the former went on , rather helplessly , we had to work hard enough for everything we got . 
And so we appreciated it . 
So many things were not done for young people then , said Mrs. Corey , not recognising the early hardships standpoint of Mrs. Lapham . 
But I don't know that they are always the better for it now , she added vaguely , but with the satisfaction we all feel in uttering a just commonplace . 
It's rather hard living up to blessings that you've always had , said Penelope . 
Yes , replied Mrs. Corey distractedly , and coming back to her slowly from the virtuous distance to which she had absented herself . 
She looked at the girl searchingly again , as if to determine whether this were a touch of the drolling her son had spoken of . 
But she only added You will enjoy the sunsets on the Back Bay so much . 
Well , not unless they're new ones , said Penelope . 
I don't believe I could promise to enjoy any sunsets that I was used to , a great deal . 
Mrs. Corey looked at her with misgiving , hardening into dislike . 
No , she breathed vaguely . 
My son spoke of the fine effect of the lights about the hotel from your cottage at Nantasket , she said to Mrs. Lapham . 
Yes , they're splendid ! exclaimed that lady . 
I guess the girls went down every night with him to see them from the rocks . 
Yes , said Mrs. Corey , a little dryly and she permitted herself to add He spoke of those rocks . 
I suppose both you young ladies spend a great deal of your time on them when you're there . 
At Nahant my children were constantly on them . 
Irene likes the rocks , said Penelope . 
I don't care much about them , especially at night . 
Oh , indeed ! I suppose you find it quite as well looking at the lights comfortably from the veranda . 
No you can't see them from the house . 
Oh , said Mrs. Corey . 
After a perceptible pause , she turned to Mrs. Lapham . 
I don't know what my son would have done for a breath of sea air this summer , if you had not allowed him to come to Nantasket . 
He wasn't willing to leave his business long enough to go anywhere else . 
Yes , he's a born business man , responded Mrs. Lapham enthusiastically . 
If it's born in you , it's bound to come out . 
That's what the Colonel is always saying about Mr. Corey . 
He says it's born in him to be a business man , and he can't help it . 
She recurred to Corey gladly because she felt that she had not said enough of him when his mother first spoke of his connection with the business . 
I don't believe , she went on excitedly , that Colonel Lapham has ever had anybody with him that he thought more of . 
You have all been very kind to my son , said Mrs. Corey in acknowledgment , and stiffly bowing a little , and we feel greatly indebted to you . 
At these grateful expressions Mrs. Lapham reddened once more , and murmured that it had been very pleasant to them , she was sure . 
I was sorry to hear from him that Mr. Colonel ? Lapham had not been quite well this summer . 
I hope he's better now ? Oh yes , indeed , replied Mrs. Lapham he's all right now . 
He's hardly ever been sick , and he don't know how to take care of himself . 
We don't any of us we're all so well . 
Health is a great blessing , sighed Mrs. Corey . 
Yes , so it is . 
How is your oldest daughter ? inquired Mrs. Lapham . 
Is she as delicate as ever ? She seems to be rather better since we returned . 
And now Mrs. Corey , as if forced to the point , said bunglingly that the young ladies had wished to come with her , but had been detained . 
She based her statement upon Nanny's sarcastic demand and , perhaps seeing it topple a little , she rose hastily , to get away from its fall . 
Penelope and her mother were still looking at each other , and trying to grapple with the effect or purport of the visit , when Irene burst in upon them from the outside . 
O mamma ! wasn't that Mrs. Corey's carriage just drove away ? Penelope answered with her laugh . 
Yes ! You've just missed the most delightful call , 'Rene . 
So easy and pleasant every way . 
In a few touches of mimicry she dashed off a sketch of the scene her mother's trepidation , and Mrs. Corey's well bred repose and polite scrutiny of them both . 
She ended by showing how she herself had sat huddled up in a dark corner , mute with fear . 
If she came to make us say and do the wrong thing , she must have gone away happy and it's a pity you weren't here to help , Irene . 
I don't know that I aimed to make a bad impression , but I guess I succeeded even beyond my deserts . 
She laughed then suddenly she flashed out in fierce earnest . 
If I missed doing anything that could make me as hateful to her as she made herself to me She checked herself , and began to laugh . 
Her laugh broke , and the tears started into her eyes she ran out of the room , and up the stairs . 
What what does it mean ? asked Irene in a daze . 
Mrs. Lapham was still in the chilly torpor to which Mrs. Corey's call had reduced her . 
Penelope's vehemence did not rouse her . 
She only shook her head absently , and said , I don't know . 
Why should Pen care what impression she made ? I didn't suppose it would make any difference to her whether Mrs. Corey liked her or not . 
But I could see that she was just as nervous as she could be , every minute of the time . 
I guess she didn't like Mrs. Corey any too well from the start , and she couldn't seem to act like herself . 
Tell me about it , mamma , said Irene , dropping into a chair . 
Mrs. Corey described the interview to her husband on her return home . 
Well , and what are your inferences ? he asked . 
They were extremely embarrassed and excited that is , the mother . 
I don't wish to do her injustice , but she certainly behaved consciously . 
You made her feel so , I dare say , Anna . 
I can imagine how terrible you must have been in the character of an accusing spirit , too lady like to say anything . 
What did you hint ? I hinted nothing , said Mrs. Corey , descending to the weakness of defending herself . 
But I saw quite enough to convince me that the girl is in love with Tom , and the mother knows it . 
I supposed you went to find out whether Tom was in love with the girl . 
Was she as pretty as ever ? I didn't see her she was not at home I saw her sister . 
I don't know that I follow you quite , Anna . 
What was the sister like ? A thoroughly disagreeable young woman . 
What did she do ? Nothing . 
She's far too sly for that . 
But that was the impression . 
Then you didn't find her so amusing as Tom does ? I found her pert . 
There's no other word for it . 
She says things to puzzle you and put you out . 
Ah , that was worse than pert , Anna that was criminal . 
Well , let us thank heaven the younger one is so pretty . 
Mrs. Corey did not reply directly . 
Bromfield , she said , after a moment of troubled silence , I have been thinking over your plan , and I don't see why it isn't the right thing . 
What is my plan ? inquired Bromfield Corey . 
Her husband began to laugh . 
Ah , you overdid the accusing spirit business , and this is reparation . 
He will be very entertaining , said Corey , if you start him on his paint . 
What was the disagreeable daughter like ? Shall you have her ? She's little and dark . 
We must have them all , Mrs. Corey sighed . 
Then you don't think a dinner would do ? Oh yes , I do . 
As you say , we can't disown Tom's relation to them , whatever it is . 
We had much better recognise it , and make the best of the inevitable . 
I think a Lapham dinner would be delightful . 
He looked at her with delicate irony in his voice and smile , and she fetched another sigh , so deep and sore now that he laughed outright . 
Perhaps , he suggested , it would be the best way of curing Tom of his fancy , if he has one . 
He has been seeing her with the dangerous advantages which a mother knows how to give her daughter in the family circle , and with no means of comparing her with other girls . 
You must invite several other very pretty girls . 
Do you really think so , Bromfield ? asked Mrs. Corey , taking courage a little . 
That might do , But her spirits visibly sank again . 
I don't know any other girl half so pretty . 
Well , then , better bred . 
She is very lady like , very modest , and pleasing . 
Tom doesn't get on with such people . 
Oh , you wish him to marry her , I see . 
No , no Then you'd better give the dinner to bring them together , to promote the affair . 
You know I don't want to do that , Bromfield . 
But I feel that we must do something . 
If we don't , it has a clandestine appearance . 
It isn't just to them . 
A dinner won't leave us in any worse position , and may leave us in a better . 
Yes , said Mrs. Corey , after another thoughtful interval , we must have them have them all . 
It could be very simple . 
Ah , you can't give a dinner under a bushel , if I take your meaning , my dear . 
If we do this at all , we mustn't do it as if we were ashamed of it . 
We must ask people to meet them . 
Yes , sighed Mrs. Corey . 
There are not many people in town yet , she added , with relief that caused her husband another smile . 
There really seems a sort of fatality about it , she concluded religiously . 
Then you had better not struggle against it . 
Go and reconcile Lily and Nanny to it as soon as possible . 
Mrs. Corey blanched a little . 
But don't you think it will be the best thing , Bromfield ? I do indeed , my dear . 
The only thing that shakes my faith in the scheme is the fact that I first suggested it . 
But if you have adopted it , it must be all right , Anna . 
I can't say that I expected it . 
No , said his wife , it wouldn't do . 
She did not question but the Laphams would come and she only doubted as to the people whom she should invite to meet them . 
Not only the principal of their debt of gratitude remained , but the accruing interest . 
The trouble would be with Tom , if he were really interested in the girl but he could not say anything if they made it a family dinner he could not feel anything . 
These conditions , however , so perilous to the foreigner , are a source of strength and security to those native to them . 
Mrs. Corey's brother James came first into her mind , and she thought with uncommon toleration of the easy going , uncritical , good nature of his wife . 
James Bellingham had been the adviser of her son throughout , and might be said to have actively promoted his connection with Lapham . 
It seemed to her that she might stop at this four Laphams , five Coreys , and four Bellinghams were enough . 
That makes thirteen , said Nanny . 
You can have Mr. and Mrs. Sewell . 
Yes , that is a good idea , assented Mrs. Corey . 
He is our minister , and it is very proper . 
I don't see why you don't have Robert Chase . 
It is a pity he shouldn't see her for the colour . 
I don't quite like the idea of that , said Mrs. Corey but we can have him too , if it won't make too many . 
The painter had married into a poorer branch of the Coreys , and his wife was dead . 
Is there any one else ? There is Miss Kingsbury . 
We have had her so much . 
She will begin to think we are using her . 
She won't mind she's so good natured . 
Well , then , the mother summed up , there are four Laphams , five Coreys , four Bellinghams , one Chase , and one Kingsbury fifteen . 
Oh ! and two Sewells . 
Ten ladies and seven gentlemen . 
It doesn't balance very well , and it's too large . 
Perhaps some of the ladies won't come , suggested Lily . 
Oh , the ladies always come , said Nanny . 
Well , I will ask them . 
The ladies will refuse in time to let us pick up some gentlemen somewhere some more artists . 
Why ! we must have Mr. Seymour , the architect he's a bachelor , and he's building their house , Tom says . 
Her voice fell a little when she mentioned her son's name , and she told him of her plan , when he came home in the evening , with evident misgiving . 
What are you doing it for , mother ? he asked , looking at her with his honest eyes . 
She dropped her own in a little confusion . 
I won't do it at all , my dear , she said , if you don't approve . 
But I thought You know we have never made any proper acknowledgment of their kindness to us at Baie St . 
And now your having been at their house this summer we can't seem to disapprove of that and your business relations to him Yes , I see , said Corey . 
Do you think it amounts to a dinner ? Why , I don't know , returned his mother . 
We shall have hardly any one out of our family connection . 
Well , Corey assented , it might do . 
I suppose what you wish is to give them a pleasure . 
Don't you think they'd like to come ? Oh , they'd like to come but whether it would be a pleasure after they were here is another thing . 
I should have said that if you wanted to have them , they would enjoy better being simply asked to meet our own immediate family . 
And besides , it might seem a little significant . 
Corey seemed inattentive to this consideration . 
Whom did you think of asking ? His mother repeated the names . 
Yes , that would do , he said , with a vague dissatisfaction . 
I won't have it at all , if you don't wish , Tom . 
Oh yes , have it perhaps you ought . 
Yes , I dare say it's right . 
What did you mean by a family dinner seeming significant ? His mother hesitated . 
When it came to that , she did not like to recognise in his presence the anxieties that had troubled her . 
But I don't know , she said , since she must . 
I shouldn't want to give that young girl , or her mother , the idea that we wished to make more of the acquaintance than than you did , Tom . 
He looked at her absent mindedly , as if he did not take her meaning . 
Later in the evening , when they again found themselves alone , her son said , I don't think I understood you , mother , in regard to the Laphams . 
I think I do now . 
I certainly don't wish you to make more of the acquaintance than I have done . 
It wouldn't be right it might be very unfortunate . 
Don't give the dinner ! It's too late now , my son , said Mrs. Corey . 
I sent my note to Mrs. Lapham an hour ago . 
Her courage rose at the trouble which showed in Corey's face . 
But don't be annoyed by it , Tom . 
It isn't a family dinner , you know , and everything can be managed without embarrassment . 
If we take up the affair at this point , you will seem to have been merely acting for us and they can't possibly understand anything more . 
Well , well ! Let it go ! I dare say it's all right At any rate , it can't be helped now . 
I don't wish to help it , Tom , said Mrs. Corey , with a cheerfullness which the thought of the Laphams had never brought her before . 
I am sure it is quite fit and proper , and we can make them have a very pleasant time . 
They are good , inoffensive people , and we owe it to ourselves not to be afraid to show that we have felt their kindness to us , and his appreciation of you . 
The trouble that his mother had suddenly cast off was in his tone but she was not sorry . 
It was a view of her son's character that could hardly have pleased her in different circumstances , yet it was now unquestionably a consolation if not wholly a pleasure . 
If she considered the Laphams at all , it was with the resignation which we feel at the evils of others , even when they have not brought them on themselves . 
She returned at once with a note for Mrs. Lapham , which she read , and then , after a helpless survey of her family , read again . 
Why , I don't know what it does mean , answered Mrs. Lapham tremulously , and she let the girl take the note from her . 
Irene ran it over , and then turned to the name at the end with a joyful cry and a flush that burned to the top of her forehead . 
Then she began to read it once more . 
The Colonel dropped his knife and frowned impatiently , and Mrs. Lapham said , You read it out loud , if you know what to make of it , Irene . 
But Irene , with a nervous scream of protest , handed it to her father , who performed the office . 
LAPHAM Will you and General Lapham I didn't know I was a general , grumbled Lapham . 
I guess I shall have to be looking up my back pay . 
Who is it writes this , anyway ? he asked , turning the letter over for the signature . 
Yours sincerely , ANNA B. COREY . 
The brief invitation had been spread over two pages , and the Colonel had difficulties with the signature which he did not instantly surmount . 
When he had made out the name and pronounced it , he looked across at his wife for an explanation . 
I don't know what it all means , she said , shaking her head and speaking with a pleased flutter . 
She was here this afternoon , and I should have said she had come to see how bad she could make us feel . 
I declare I never felt so put down in my life by anybody . 
Mrs. Lapham tried to tell him , but there was really nothing tangible and when she came to put it into words , she could not make out a case . 
Her husband listened to her excited attempt , and then he said , with judicial superiority , I guess nobody's been trying to make you feel bad , Persis . 
She could only say , Penelope felt just the way I did about it . 
Lapham looked at the girl , who said , Oh , I can't prove it ! I begin to think it never happened . 
Humph ! said her father , and he sat frowning thoughtfully a while ignoring her mocking irony , or choosing to take her seriously . 
You can't really put your finger on anything , he said to his wife , and it ain't likely there is anything . 
Anyway , she's done the proper thing by you now . 
Mrs. Lapham faltered between her lingering resentment and the appeals of her flattered vanity . 
She looked from Penelope's impassive face to the eager eyes of Irene . 
Well just as you say , Silas . 
I don't know as she WAS so very bad . 
I guess may be she was embarrassed some That's what I told you , mamma , from the start , interrupted Irene . 
Didn't I tell you she didn't mean anything by it ? It's just the way she acted at Baie St . 
Paul , when she got well enough to realise what you'd done for her ! Penelope broke into a laugh . 
Is that her way of showing her gratitude ? I'm sorry I didn't understand that before . 
Irene made no effort to reply . 
She merely looked from her mother to her father with a grieved face for their protection , and Lapham said , When we've done supper , you answer her , Persis . 
With one exception , said Penelope . 
What do you mean ? demanded her father , with a mouth full of ham . 
Oh , nothing of importance . 
Merely that I'm not going . 
Lapham gave himself time to swallow his morsel , and his rising wrath went down with it . 
I guess you'll change your mind when the time comes , he said . 
Anyway , Persis , you say we'll all come , and then , if Penelope don't want to go , you can excuse her after we get there . 
If she believed that Penelope would not finally change her mind and go , no doubt Mrs. Lapham thought that Mrs. Corey would easily excuse her absence . 
She did not find it so simple a matter to accept the invitation . 
When the furnace man came , the Colonel sent him out to post it in the box at the corner of the square . 
Well , Pers , he demanded , what do you say now ? Mrs. Lapham had been sobered into something of her former misgiving by her difficulties with her note . 
Well , I don't know what TO say . 
I declare , I'm all mixed up about it , and I don't know as we've begun as we can carry out in promising to go . 
I presume , she sighed , that we can all send some excuse at the last moment , if we don't want to go . 
I guess we can carry out , and I guess we shan't want to send any excuse , bragged the Colonel . 
If we're ever going to be anybody at all , we've got to go and see how it's done . 
I presume we've got to give some sort of party when we get into the new house , and this gives the chance to ask 'em back again . 
You can't complain now but what they've made the advances , Persis ? No , said Mrs. Lapham lifelessly I wonder why they wanted to do it . 
I don't know what I'm going to wear or the girls either . 
I do wonder I've heard that people go to dinner in low necks . 
Do you suppose it's the custom ? How should I know ? demanded the Colonel . 
I guess you've got clothes enough . 
Any rate , you needn't fret about it . 
You just go round to White's or Jordan Marsh's , and ask for a dinner dress . 
I guess that'll settle it they'll know . 
Get some of them imported dresses . 
I see 'em in the window every time I pass lots of 'em Oh , it ain't the dress ! said Mrs. Lapham . 
We haven't got anything in common with them . 
Oh , I don't say they're any better , she again made haste to say in arrest of her husband's resentment . 
I don't believe they are and I don't see why they should be . 
And there ain't anybody has got a better right to hold up their head than you have , Silas . 
You've got plenty of money , and you've made every cent of it . 
I guess I shouldn't amounted to much without you , Persis , interposed Lapham , moved to this justice by her praise . 
Oh , don't talk about ME ! protested the wife . 
Now that you've made it all right about Rogers , there ain't a thing in this world against you . 
But still , for all that , I can see and I can feel it when I can't see it that we're different from those people . 
They're well meaning enough , and they'd excuse it , I presume , but we're too old to learn to be like them . 
The children ain't , said Lapham shrewdly . 
No , the children ain't , admitted his wife , and that's the only thing that reconciles me to it . 
You see how pleased Irene looked when I read it ? Yes , she was pleased . 
And I guess Penelope'll think better of it before the time comes . 
Oh yes , we do it for them . 
But whether we're doing the best thing for 'em , goodness knows . 
I'm not saying anything against HIM . 
Irene'll be a lucky girl to get him , if she wants him . 
It's in her ! Lapham laughed aloud for pleasure in his wife's fondness but neither of them wished that he should respond directly to it . 
I guess , if it wa'n't for me , he wouldn't have a much easier time . 
But don't you fret ! It's all coming out right . 
That dinner ain't a thing for you to be uneasy about . 
It'll pass off perfectly easy and natural . 
Lapham did not keep his courageous mind quite to the end of the week that followed . 
He said yes , he believed that Mrs. Lapham and the girls were going . 
He was too proud to mention the subject again to her . 
Finally , all that dress making in the house began to scare him with vague apprehensions in regard to his own dress . 
As soon as he had determined to go , an ideal of the figure in which he should go presented itself to his mind . 
He would go in a frock coat and black pantaloons , and perhaps a white waistcoat , but a black cravat anyway . 
But as soon as he developed this ideal to his family , which he did in pompous disdain of their anxieties about their own dress , they said he should not go so . 
Mrs. Lapham , who would perhaps have agreed of herself , shook her head with misgiving . 
I don't see but what you'll have to get you one , Si , she said . 
I don't believe they ever go without 'em to a private house . 
He held out openly , but on his way home the next day , in a sudden panic , he cast anchor before his tailor's door and got measured for a dress coat . 
After that he began to he afflicted about his waist coat , concerning which he had hitherto been airily indifferent . 
He tried to get opinion out of his family , but they were not so clear about it as they were about the frock . 
It ended in their buying a book of etiquette , which settled the question adversely to a white waistcoat . 
Drops of perspiration gathered on Lapham's forehead in the anxiety of the debate he groaned , and he swore a little in the compromise profanity which he used . 
I declare , said Penelope , where she sat purblindly sewing on a bit of dress for Irene , the Colonel's clothes are as much trouble as anybody's . 
He had an awful longing to find out from Corey how he ought to go . 
But Lapham found that he would rather die than ask this question , or any question that would bring up the dinner again . 
Corey did not recur to it , and Lapham avoided the matter with positive fierceness . 
He shunned talking with Corey at all , and suffered in grim silence . 
Why ? demanded Lapham , in the dismay which beset him at every fresh recurrence to the subject . 
The book says that it's very impolite not to answer a dinner invitation promptly . 
The Colonel was silent for a while . 
Well , I'm dumned , he said finally , if there seems to be any end to this thing . 
If it was to do over again , I'd say no for all of us . 
I've wished a hundred times they hadn't asked us but it's too late to think about that now . 
The question is , what are we going to do about Penelope ? Oh , I guess she'll go , at the last moment . 
She took a prejudice against Mrs. Corey that day , and she can't seem to get over it . 
Well , then , hadn't you better write in the morning , as soon as you're up , that she ain't coming ? Mrs. Lapham sighed helplessly . 
I shouldn't know how to get it in . 
It's so late now I don't see how I could have the face . 
Well , then , she's got to go , that's all . 
And I'm set she shall , said Lapham with the loud obstinacy of a man whose women always have their way . 
Mrs. Lapham was not supported by the sturdiness of his proclamation . 
But she did not know how to do what she knew she ought to do about Penelope , and she let matters drift . 
After all , the child had a right to stay at home if she did not wish to go . 
That was what Mrs. Lapham felt , and what she said to her husband next morning , bidding him let Penelope alone , unless she chose herself to go . 
She said it was too late now to do anything , and she must make the best excuse she could when she saw Mrs. Corey . 
She began to wish that Irene and her father would go and excuse her too . 
She could not help saying this , and then she and Lapham had some unpleasant words . 
Look here ! he cried . 
Hush ! said his wife . 
Do you want to raise the house ? I didn't put it on you , as you say . 
You took it on yourself . 
Ever since that fellow happened to come into the new house that day , you've been perfectly crazy to get in with them . 
And now you're so afraid you shall do something wrong before 'em , you don't hardly dare to say your life's your own . 
I declare , if you pester me any more about those gloves , Silas Lapham , I won't go . 
Do you suppose I want to go on my own account ? he demanded furiously . 
I know very well that you're doing it for Irene but , for goodness gracious' sake , don't worry our lives out , and make yourself a perfect laughing stock before the children . 
With this modified concession from her , the quarrel closed in sullen silence on Lapham's part . 
The night before the dinner came , and the question of his gloves was still unsettled , and in a fair way to remain so . 
But he was uncertain whether he should wear them . 
They had found a book at last that said the ladies removed their gloves on sitting down at table , but it said nothing about gentlemen's gloves . 
He left his wife where she stood half hook and eyed at her glass in her new dress , and went down to his own den beyond the parlour . 
It made Lapham sick , and he despised himself and all his brood for the trouble they were taking . 
But another glance gave him a sight of the young girl's face in the mirror , beautiful and radiant with happiness , and his heart melted again with paternal tenderness and pride . 
It was going to be a great pleasure to Irene , and Lapham felt that she was bound to cut out anything there . 
He was vexed with Penelope that she was not going too he would have liked to have those people hear her talk . 
He held his door a little open , and listened to the things she was getting off there to Irene . 
He showed that he felt really hurt and disappointed about Penelope , and the girl's mother made her console him the next evening before they all drove away without her . 
You try to look on the bright side of it , father . 
I guess you'll see that it's best I didn't go when you get there . 
Irene needn't open her lips , and they can all see how pretty she is but they wouldn't know how smart I was unless I talked , and maybe then they wouldn't . 
THE Coreys were one of the few old families who lingered in Bellingham Place , the handsome , quiet old street which the sympathetic observer must grieve to see abandoned to boarding houses . 
It is one of two evidently designed by the same architect who built some houses in a characteristic taste on Beacon Street opposite the Common . 
He heard quiet talking beyond the portiere within , and presently Tom Corey came out . 
Ah , Colonel Lapham ! Very glad to see you . 
Lapham shook hands with him and gasped , Waiting for Mis' Lapham , to account for his presence . 
By the time he had stuffed them into the pocket of his coat skirt his wife and daughter descended . 
Corey welcomed them very cordially too , but looked a little mystified . 
Mrs. Lapham knew that he was silently inquiring for Penelope , and she did not know whether she ought to excuse her to him first or not . 
Mrs. Lapham had decided against low necks on her own responsibility , and had entrenched herself in the safety of a black silk , in which she looked very handsome . 
If it was more like a ball dress than a dinner dress , that might be excused to the exquisite effect . 
She trailed , a delicate splendour , across the carpet in her mother's sombre wake , and the consciousness of success brought a vivid smile to her face . 
General Lapham ? she said , shaking hands in quick succession with Mrs. Lapham and Irene , and now addressing herself to him . 
No , ma'am , only Colonel , said the honest man , but the lady did not hear him . 
The interval was long enough to let every man present confide his sense of Irene's beauty to every other and then , as the party was small , Mrs. Corey made everybody acquainted . 
Mrs. Lapham turned fire red , and the graceful forms in which she had been intending to excuse her daughter's absence went out of her head . 
She isn't upstairs , she said , at her bluntest , as country people are when embarrassed . 
She didn't feel just like coming to night . 
I don't know as she's feeling very well . 
She perceived then that in their determination not to be the first to come they had been the last , and must have kept the others waiting for them . 
He gave it to that big girl they called Miss Kingsbury , and the handsome old fellow whom Mrs. Corey had introduced as her cousin took Irene out . 
He fetched a long sigh of relief when he sank into his chair and felt himself safe from error if he kept a sharp lookout and did only what the others did . 
Lapham put his napkin into his collar too , and then , seeing that no one but Bellingham did it , became alarmed and took it out again slyly . 
He let the servant fill them all , and he drank out of each , not to appear odd . 
He was getting on famously himself with Mrs. Corey , who had begun with him about his new house he was telling her all about it , and giving her his ideas . 
This struck Lapham , then draining his glass of sauterne , as wonderfully discreet in his wife . 
Bromfield Corey leaned back in his chair a moment . 
Well , after all , you can't say , with all your modern fuss about it , that you do much better now than the old fellows who built such houses as this . 
Ah , said the architect , nobody can do better than well . 
Your house is in perfect taste you know I've always admired it and I don't think it 's at all the worse for being old fashioned . 
What we've done is largely to go back of the hideous style that raged after they forgot how to make this sort of house . 
But I think we may claim a better feeling for structure . 
We use better material , and more wisely and by and by we shall work out something more characteristic and original . 
With your chocolates and olives , and your clutter of bric a brac ? All that's bad , of course , but I don't mean that . 
All the new houses are better built . 
Now , your house Mrs. Corey's house , interrupted the host , with a burlesque haste in disclaiming responsibility for it that made them all laugh . 
My ancestral halls are in Salem , and I'm told you couldn't drive a nail into their timbers in fact , I don't know that you would want to do it . 
I should consider it a species of sacrilege , answered Seymour , and I shall be far from pressing the point I was going to make against a house of Mrs. Corey's . 
This won Seymour the easy laugh , and Lapham silently wondered that the fellow never got off any of those things to him . 
Well , said Corey , you architects and the musicians are the true and only artistic creators . 
All the rest of us , sculptors , painters , novelists , and tailors , deal with forms that we have before us we try to imitate , we try to represent . 
But you two sorts of artists create form . 
If you represent , you fail . 
Somehow or other you do evolve the camel out of your inner consciousness I will not deny the soft impeachment , said the architect , with a modest air . 
And you'll own that it's very handsome of me to say this , after your unjustifiable attack on Mrs. Corey's property . 
Bromfield Corey addressed himself again to Mrs. Lapham , and the talk subdivided itself as before . 
The only thing like a recurrence to what they had been saying was Bromfield Corey's warning Mrs. Lapham , in some connection that Lapham lost , against Miss Kingsbury . 
She's worse , he was saying , when it comes to appropriations than Seymour himself . 
Depend upon it , Mrs. Lapham , she will give you no peace of your mind , now she's met you , from this out . 
Her tender mercies are cruel and I leave you to supply the content from your own scriptural knowledge . 
Beware of her , and all her works . 
She calls them works of charity but heaven knows whether they are . 
It don't stand to reason that she gives the poor ALL the money she gets out of people . 
I have my own belief he gave it in a whisper for the whole table to hear that she spends it for champagne and cigars . 
Lapham did not know about that kind of talking but Miss Kingsbury seemed to enjoy the fun as much as anybody , and he laughed with the rest . 
You shall be asked to the very next debauch of the committee , Mr. Corey then you won't dare expose us , said Miss Kingsbury . 
I wonder you haven't been down upon Corey to go to the Chardon Street home and talk with your indigent Italians in their native tongue , said Charles Bellingham . 
I saw in the Transcript the other night that you wanted some one for the work . 
Upon the theory that this was a fair return for Corey's pleasantry , the others laughed again . 
There is one charity , said Corey , pretending superiority to Miss Kingsbury's point , that is so difficult , I wonder it hasn't occurred to a lady of your courageous invention . 
Yes ? said Miss Kingsbury . 
Yes , that is terrible , replied Miss Kingsbury , with quick earnestness , while her eyes grew moist . 
But I am serious about this matter . 
I never thought of that . 
And if you were a poor man with a sick child , I doubt if you'd have so much heart for burglary as you have now , said James Bellingham . 
It's wonderful how patient they are , said the minister . 
The spectacle of the hopeless comfort the hard working poor man sees must be hard to bear . 
Lapham wanted to speak up and say that he had been there himself , and knew how such a man felt . 
But before he could get the courage to address the whole table , Sewell added , I suppose he don't always think of it . 
But some day he WILL think about it , said Corey . 
In fact , we rather invite him to think about it , in this country . 
The Americans never make any trouble . 
They seem to understand that so long as we give unlimited opportunity , nobody has a right to complain . 
What do you hear from Leslie ? asked Mrs. Corey , turning from these profitless abstractions to Mrs. Bellingham . 
You know , said that lady in a lower tone , that there is another baby ? No ! I hadn't heard of it ! Yes a boy . 
They have named him after his uncle . 
Yes , said Charles Bellingham , joining in . 
He is said to be a noble boy , and to resemble me . 
All boys of that tender age are noble , said Corey , and look like anybody you wish them to resemble . 
Is Leslie still home sick for the bean pots of her native Boston ? She is getting over it , I fancy , replied Mrs. Bellingham . 
She's very much taken up with Mr. Blake's enterprises , and leads a very exciting life . 
Lapham leaned a little toward Mrs. Corey , and said of a picture which he saw on the wall opposite , Picture of your daughter , I presume ? No my daughter's grandmother . 
It's a Stewart Newton he painted a great many Salem beauties . 
She was a Miss Polly Burroughs . 
My daughter IS like her , don't you think ? They both looked at Nanny Corey and then at the portrait . 
Those pretty old fashioned dresses are coming in again . 
I'm not surprised you took it for her . 
The others she referred to the other portraits more or less darkling on the walls are my people mostly Copleys . 
These names , unknown to Lapham , went to his head like the wine he was drinking they seemed to carry light for the moment , but a film of deeper darkness followed . 
He heard Charles Bellingham telling funny stories to Irene and trying to amuse the girl she was laughing , and seemed very happy . 
From time to time Bellingham took part in the general talk between the host and James Bellingham and Miss Kingsbury and that minister , Mr. Sewell . 
They talked of people mostly it astonished Lapham to hear with what freedom they talked . 
He felt that he was not holding up his end of the line , however . 
You feel as if you'd done them yourself . 
Ah , that's the secret of its success , said Bromfield Corey . 
It flatters the reader by painting the characters colossal , but with his limp and stoop , so that he feels himself of their supernatural proportions . 
You've read it , Nanny ? Yes , said his daughter . 
It ought to have been called Slop , Silly Slop . 
Oh , not quite SLOP , Nanny , pleaded Miss Kingsbury . 
It's astonishing , said Charles Bellingham , how we do like the books that go for our heart strings . 
And I really suppose that you can't put a more popular thing than self sacrifice into a novel . 
We do like to see people suffering sublimely . 
There was talk some years ago , said James Bellingham , about novels going out . 
They're just coming in ! cried Miss Kingsbury . 
Yes , said Mr. Sewell , the minister . 
And I don't think there ever was a time when they formed the whole intellectual experience of more people . 
They do greater mischief than ever . 
Don't be envious , parson , said the host . 
I should be glad of their help . 
But those novels with old fashioned heroes and heroines in them excuse me , Miss Kingsbury are ruinous ! Don't you feel like a moral wreck , Miss Kingsbury ? asked the host . 
And the self sacrifice painted in most novels like this Slop , Silly Slop ? suggested the proud father of the inventor of the phrase . 
Yes is nothing but psychical suicide , and is as wholly immoral as the spectacle of a man falling upon his sword . 
Right ? To be sure I am right . 
The whole business of love , and love making and marrying , is painted by the novelists in a monstrous disproportion to the other relations of life . 
Love is very sweet , very pretty Oh , THANK you , Mr. Sewell , said Nanny Corey , in a way that set them all laughing . 
But it's the affair , commonly , of very young people , who have not yet character and experience enough to make them interesting . 
Well , but isn't that true , Mr. Sewell ? pleaded Miss Kingsbury . 
I have known some most estimable people who had married a second time , said the minister , and then he had the applause with him . 
Lapham wanted to make some open recognition of his good sense , but could not . 
I suppose the passion itself has been a good deal changed , said Bromfield Corey , since the poets began to idealise it in the days of chivalry . 
Yes and it ought to be changed again , said Mr. Sewell . 
What ! Back ? I don't say that . 
But it ought to be recognised as something natural and mortal , and divine honours , which belong to righteousness alone , ought not to be paid it . 
Oh , you ask too much , parson , laughed his host , and the talk wandered away to something else . 
He now no longer made any pretence of not drinking his wine , for he was thirsty , and there was no more water , and he hated to ask for any . 
The ice cream came , and then the fruit . 
Suddenly Mrs. Corey rose , and said across the table to her husband , I suppose you will want your coffee here . 
And he replied , Yes we'll join you at tea . 
The ladies all rose , and the gentlemen got up with them . 
Lapham started to follow Mrs. Corey , but the other men merely stood in their places , except young Corey , who ran and opened the door for his mother . 
They brought in cigars with coffee , and Bromfield Corey advised Lapham to take one that he chose for him . 
Lapham confessed that he liked a good cigar about as well as anybody , and Corey said These are new . 
I had an Englishman here the other day who was smoking old cigars in the superstition that tobacco improved with age , like wine . 
Ah , said Lapham , anybody who had ever lived off a tobacco country could tell him better than that . 
With the fuming cigar between his lips he felt more at home than he had before . 
He turned sidewise in his chair and , resting one arm on the back , intertwined the fingers of both hands , and smoked at large ease . 
James Bellingham came and sat down by him . 
I thought so , said Bellingham . 
I was with the th Massachusetts , and I sha'n't forget that slaughter . 
We were all new to it still . 
Perhaps that's why it made such an impression . 
I don't know , suggested Charles Bellingham . 
They said that death rate couldn't be beaten . 
I don't know that it ever was . 
About one in five of us got out safe , said Lapham , breaking his cigar ash off on the edge of a plate . 
James Bellingham reached him a bottle of Apollinaris . 
He drank a glass , and then went on smoking . 
The past of one's experience doesn't differ a great deal from the past of one's knowledge . 
It isn't much more probable it's really a great deal less vivid than some scenes in a novel that one read when a boy . 
I'm not sure of that , said James Bellingham . 
Well , James , neither am I , consented his cousin , helping himself from Lapham's Apollinaris bottle . 
There would be very little talking at dinner if one only said the things that one was sure of . 
The others laughed , and Bromfield Corey remarked thoughtfully , What astonishes the craven civilian in all these things is the abundance the superabundance of heroism . 
The cowards were the exception the men that were ready to die , the rule . 
The woods were full of them , said Lapham , without taking his cigar from his mouth . 
Yes , I remember that , said James Bellingham , smiling for pleasure in it . 
A man who was out with Garibaldi in , continued James Bellingham . 
Oh , a little amateur red shirting , Corey interrupted in deprecation . 
And I couldn't in , said his uncle . 
Then your theory is that it's the occasion that is wanting , said Bromfield Corey . 
But why shouldn't civil service reform , and the resumption of specie payment , and a tariff for revenue only , inspire heroes ? They are all good causes . 
It's the occasion that's wanting , said James Bellingham , ignoring the persiflage . 
And I'm very glad of it . 
So am I , said Lapham , with a depth of feeling that expressed itself in spite of the haze in which his brain seemed to float . 
There was a great deal of the talk that he could not follow it was too quick for him but here was something he was clear of . 
I don't want to see any more men killed in my time . 
We non combatants were notoriously reluctant to give up fighting , said Mr. Sewell , the minister but I incline to think Colonel Lapham and Mr. Bellingham may be right . 
I dare say we shall have the heroism again if we have the occasion . 
Till it comes , we must content ourselves with the every day generosities and sacrifices . 
They make up in quantity what they lack in quality , perhaps . 
They're not so picturesque , said Bromfield Corey . 
You can paint a man dying for his country , but you can't express on canvas a man fulfilling the duties of a good citizen . 
Perhaps the novelists will get at him by and by , suggested Charles Bellingham . 
If I were one of these fellows , I shouldn't propose to myself anything short of that . 
What ? the commonplace ? asked his cousin . 
Commonplace ? The commonplace is just that light , impalpable , aerial essence which they've never got into their confounded books yet . 
The novelist who could interpret the common feelings of commonplace people would have the answer to 'the riddle of the painful earth on his tongue . 
Oh , not so bad as that , I hope , said the host and Lapham looked from one to the other , trying to make out what they were at . 
He had never been so up a tree before . 
I suppose it isn't well for us to see human nature at white heat habitually , continued Bromfield Corey , after a while . 
It would make us vain of our species . 
God has never been imagined at all . 
But if you suppose such a man as that was Authorised , I think it will help you to imagine what God must be . 
There's sense in that , said Lapham . 
He took his cigar out of his mouth , and pulled his chair a little toward the table , on which he placed his ponderous fore arms . 
I want to tell you about a fellow I had in my own company when we first went out . 
We were all privates to begin with after a while they elected me captain I'd had the tavern stand , and most of 'em knew me . 
But Jim Millon never got to be anything more than corporal corporal when he was killed . 
The others arrested themselves in various attitudes of attention , and remained listening to Lapham with an interest that profoundly flattered him . 
Now , at last , he felt that he was holding up his end of the rope . 
I suppose Jim Millon's wife was enough to account for his going , herself . 
Well , sir , continued Lapham , synthetising his auditors in that form of address , that fellow used to save every cent of his pay and send it to that woman . 
Used to get me to do it for him . 
I tried to stop him . 
'Why , Jim , said I , 'you know what she'll do with it . 
'That's so , Cap , says he , 'but I don't know what she'll do without it . 
And it did keep her straight straight as a string as long as Jim lasted . 
Seemed as it there was something mysterious about it . 
They had a little girl , about as old as my oldest girl , and Jim used to talk to me about her . 
I ain't comin' out o' this one . 
But I don't suppose it would do . 
'Well , not for you , Jim , said I. 'I want to live , he says and he bust out crying right there in my tent . 
'I want to live for poor Molly and Zerrilla' that's what they called the little one I dunno where they got the name . 
'I ain't ever had half a chance and now she's doing better , and I believe we should get along after this . 
He set there cryin' like a baby . 
But he wa'n't no baby when he went into action . 
I guess he died hard . 
The story made its impression , and Lapham saw it . 
Now I say , he resumed , as if he felt that he was going to do himself justice , and say something to heighten the effect his story had produced . 
At the same time he was aware of a certain want of clearness . 
He had the idea , but it floated vague , elusive , in his brain . 
He looked about as if for something to precipitate it in tangible shape . 
Apollinaris ? asked Charles Bellingham , handing the bottle from the other side . 
He had drawn his chair closer than the rest to Lapham's , and was listening with great interest . 
When Mrs. Corey asked him to meet Lapham , he accepted gladly . 
You know I go in for that sort of thing , Anna . 
Since Leslie's affair we're rather bound to do it . 
And I think we meet these practical fellows too little . 
There's always something original about them . 
He might naturally have believed that the reward of his faith was coming . 
He tossed off the wine , unconscious of its preciousness , and waited for the result . 
That cloudiness in his brain disappeared before it , but a mere blank remained . 
He not only could not remember what he was going to say , but he could not recall what they had been talking about . 
They waited , looking at him , and he stared at them in return . 
After a while he heard the host saying , Shall we join the ladies ? Lapham went , trying to think what had happened . 
It seemed to him a long time since he had drunk that wine . 
Miss Corey gave him a cup of tea , where he stood aloof from his wife , who was talking with Miss Kingsbury and Mrs. Sewell Irene was with Miss Nanny Corey . 
He could not hear what they were talking about but if Penelope had come , he knew that she would have done them all credit . 
He meant to let her know how he felt about her behaviour when he got home . 
It was a shame for her to miss such a chance . 
He was himself conscious of having , talked very well . 
He now wore an air of great dignity , and , in conversing with the other gentlemen , he used a grave and weighty deliberation . 
Some of them wanted him to go into the library . 
There he gave his ideas of books . 
He said he had not much time for anything but the papers but he was going to have a complete library in his new place . 
He asked Mr. Corey who was about the best American painter going now . 
I don't set up to be a judge of pictures , but I know what I like , he said . 
He lost the reserve which he had maintained earlier , and began to boast . 
He told about his brother William , the judge at Dubuque and a farm he had out there that paid for itself every year in wheat . 
As he cast off all fear , his voice rose , and he hammered his arm chair with the thick of his hand for emphasis . 
Mr. Corey seemed impressed he sat perfectly quiet , listening , and Lapham saw the other gentlemen stop in their talk every now and then to listen . 
He surprised himself by his ease among men whose names had hitherto overawed him . 
He got to calling Bromfield Corey by his surname alone . 
He began to tell stories of the different young men he had had in his employ . 
At last he had the talk altogether to himself no one else talked , and he talked unceasingly . 
It was a great time it was a triumph . 
He was in this successful mood when word came to him that Mrs. Lapham was going Tom Corey seemed to have brought it , but he was not sure . 
Anyway , he was not going to hurry . 
He made cordial invitations to each of the gentlemen to drop in and see him at his office , and would not be satisfied till he had exacted a promise from each . 
He would have told anybody he lied that had told him ten years ago that a son of Bromfield Corey would have come and asked him to take him into the business . 
And every cent of that was honest money , no speculation , every copper of it for value received . 
I call that a pretty good joke on Mrs. Corey . 
I must tell her how Mrs. Lapham done her out of a cool four hundred dollars . 
Mrs. Lapham had not known how soon she ought to go , and had no idea that in her quality of chief guest she was keeping the others . 
She and Irene had had a perfect time . 
Everybody had been very polite , on the way home they celebrated the amiability of both the Miss Coreys and of Miss Kingsbury . 
If it's that car wheel Blake , said Lapham proudly , I know all about him . 
I've sold him tons of the paint . 
Pooh , papa ! How you do smell of smoking ! cried Irene . 
Pretty strong , eh ? laughed Lapham , letting down a window of the carriage . 
He meant to have them wake Penelope up and tell her what she had lost but when he reached home he was too sleepy to suggest it . 
He fell asleep as soon as his head touched the pillow , full of supreme triumph . 
But in the morning his skull was sore with the unconscious , night long ache and he rose cross and taciturn . 
They had a silent breakfast . 
In the cold grey light of the morning the glories of the night before showed poorer . 
Here and there a painful doubt obtruded itself and marred them with its awkward shadow . 
Penelope sent down word that she was not well , and was not coming to breakfast , and Lapham was glad to go to his office without seeing her . 
He was severe and silent all day with his clerks , and peremptory with customers . 
Of Corey he was slyly observant , and as the day wore away he grew more restively conscious . 
He sent out word by his office boy that he would like to see Mr. Corey for a few minutes after closing . 
The type writer girl had lingered too , as if she wished to speak with him , and Corey stood in abeyance as she went toward Lapham's door . 
Can't see you to night , Zerrilla , he said bluffly , but not unkindly . 
Perhaps I'll call at the house , if it's important . 
It is , said the girl , with a spoiled air of insistence . 
Well , said Lapham , and , nodding to Corey to enter , he closed the door upon her . 
Then he turned to the young , man and demanded Was I drunk last night ? XV . 
Was I drunk ? he repeated . 
I ask you , because I was never touched by drink in my life before , and I don't know . 
He stood with his huge hands trembling on the back of his chair , and his dry lips apart , as he stared at Corey . 
That is what every one understood , Colonel Lapham , said the young man . 
Every one saw how it was . 
Don't Did they talk it over after I left ? asked Lapham vulgarly . 
Excuse me , said Corey , blushing , my father doesn't talk his guests over with one another . 
He added , with youthful superfluity , You were among gentlemen . 
I was the only one that wasn't a gentleman there ! lamented Lapham . 
I disgraced you ! I disgraced my family ! I mortified your father before his friends ! His head dropped . 
I showed that I wasn't fit to go with you . 
I'm not fit for any decent place . 
What did I say ? What did I do ? he asked , suddenly lifting his head and confronting Corey . 
Out with it ! If you could bear to see it and hear it , I had ought to bear to know it ! There was nothing really nothing , said Corey . 
Beyond the fact that you were not quite yourself , there was nothing whatever . 
My father DID speak of it to me , he confessed , when we were alone . 
The others said nothing about you . 
Ah , but what did they think ? Probably what we did that it was purely a misfortune an accident . 
I wasn't fit to be there , persisted Lapham . 
Do you want to leave ? he asked , with savage abruptness . 
Leave ? faltered the young man . 
Yes quit the business ? Cut the whole connection ? I haven't the remotest idea of it ! cried Corey in amazement . 
Why in the world should I ? Because you're a gentleman , and I'm not , and it ain't right I should be over you . 
If you want to go , I know some parties that would be glad to get you . 
I will give you up if you want to go before anything worse happens , and I shan't blame you . 
I can help you to something better than I can offer you here , and I will . 
There's no question of my going , unless you wish it , said Corey . 
I can't listen to you any longer . 
What you say is shocking to me shocking in a way you can't think . 
Why , man ! exclaimed Lapham , with astonishment if I can stand it , YOU can ! No , said Corey , with a sick look , that doesn't follow . 
You may denounce yourself , if you will but I have my reasons for refusing to hear you my reasons why I CAN'T hear you . 
If you say another word I must go away . 
I don't understand you , faltered Lapham , in bewilderment , which absorbed even his shame . 
You exaggerate the effect of what has happened , said the young man . 
It's enough , more than enough , for you to have mentioned the matter to me , and I think it's unbecoming in me to hear you . 
He made a movement toward the door , but Lapham stopped him with the tragic humility of his appeal . 
Don't go yet ! I can't let you . 
I've disgusted you , I see that but I didn't mean to . 
I I take it back . 
Oh , there's nothing to take back , said Corey , with a repressed shudder for the abasement which he had seen . 
But let us say no more about it think no more . 
There wasn't one of the gentlemen present last night who didn't understand the matter precisely as my father and I did , and that fact must end it between us two . 
He went out into the larger office beyond , leaving Lapham helpless to prevent his going . 
It had become a vital necessity with him to think the best of Lapham , but his mind was in a whirl of whatever thoughts were most injurious . 
He thought of him the night before in the company of those ladies and gentlemen , and he quivered in resentment of his vulgar , braggart , uncouth nature . 
He recognised his own allegiance to the exclusiveness to which he was born and bred , as a man perceives his duty to his country when her rights are invaded . 
The very innocence of Lapham's life in the direction in which he had erred wrought against him in the young man's mood it contained the insult of clownish inexperience . 
Three hours later he stood at Lapham's door . 
At times what he now wished to do had seemed for ever impossible , and again it had seemed as if he could not wait a moment longer . 
The most that he could urge to himself was that they had not all the reason and justice but he had hesitated and delayed because they had so much . 
Often he could not make it appear right that he should merely please himself in what chiefly concerned himself . 
He had often taken it very seriously , and sometimes he said that he must forego the hope on which his heart was set . 
THE Nova Scotia second girl who answered Corey's ring said that Lapham had not come home yet . 
Oh , said the young man , hesitating on the outer step . 
I guess you better come in , said the girl , I'll go and see when they're expecting him . 
Corey was in the mood to be swayed by any chance . 
He obeyed the suggestion of the second girl's patronising friendliness , and let her shut him into the drawing room , while she went upstairs to announce him to Penelope . 
Did you tell him father wasn't at home ? Yes . 
A gleam of amusement passed over Penelope's face , as she glanced at herself in the glass . 
Well , she cried finally , dropping from her shoulders the light shawl in which she had been huddled over a book when Corey rang , I will go down . 
Corey had not been in this room before the family had always received him in what they called the sitting room . 
Father hasn't got home yet , but I'm expecting him every moment I don't know what's keeping him . 
Did the girl tell you that mother and Irene were out ? No , she didn't say . 
It's very good of you to see me . 
She had not seen the exaltation which he had been feeling , he perceived with half a sigh it must all be upon this lower level perhaps it was best so . 
There was something I wished to say to your father I hope , he broke off , you're better to night . 
Oh yes , thank you , said Penelope , remembering that she had not been well enough to go to dinner the night before . 
We all missed you very much . 
Oh , thank you ! I'm afraid you wouldn't have missed me if I had been there . 
Oh yes , we should , said Corey , I assure you . 
They looked at each other . 
I really think I believed I was saying something , said the girl . 
And so did I , replied the young man . 
They laughed rather wildly , and then they both became rather grave . 
The soft coal fire in the grate purred and flickered the drop light cast a mellow radiance on her face . 
She let her eyes fall , and then lifted them for an irrelevant glance at the clock on the mantel . 
Mother and Irene have gone to the Spanish Students' concert . 
Oh , have they ? asked Corey and he put his hat , which he had been holding in his hand , on the floor beside his chair . 
She looked down at it for no reason , and then looked up at his face for no other , and turned a little red . 
Corey turned a little red himself . 
She who had always been so easy with him now became a little constrained . 
Do you know how warm it is out of doors ? he asked . 
No , is it warm ? I haven't been out all day . 
It's like a summer night . 
She turned her face towards the fire , and then started abruptly . 
Perhaps it's too warm for you here ? Oh no , it's very comfortable . 
I suppose it's the cold of the last few days that's still in the house . 
I was reading with a shawl on when you came . 
I had finished the book . 
I was just looking over it again . 
Do you like to read books over ? Yes books that I like at all . 
That was it ? asked Corey . 
It has rather a sentimental name . 
Did you ever read it ? Tears , Idle Tears . 
Oh yes they were talking of that last night it's a famous book with ladies . 
They break their hearts over it . 
Then the naturalness of all the rest makes that seem natural too but I guess it's rather forced . 
Her giving him up to the other one ? Yes simply because she happened to know that the other one had cared for him first . 
Why should she have done it ? What right had she ? I don't know . 
I suppose that the self sacrifice But it WASN'T self sacrifice or not self sacrifice alone . 
She was sacrificing him too and for some one who couldn't appreciate him half as much as she could . 
I'm provoked with myself when I think how I cried over that book for I did cry . 
It's silly it's wicked for any one to do what that girl did . 
Why can't they let people have a chance to behave reasonably in stories ? Perhaps they couldn't make it so attractive , suggested Corey , with a smile . 
It would be novel , at any rate , said the girl . 
But so it would in real life , I suppose , she added . 
Why shouldn't people in love behave sensibly ? That's a very serious question , said Penelope gravely . 
I couldn't answer it , and she left him the embarrassment of supporting an inquiry which she had certainly instigated herself . 
She seemed to have finally recovered her own ease in doing this . 
Do you admire our autumnal display , Mr. Corey ? Your display ? The trees in the Square . 
WE think it's quite equal to an opening at Jordan Marsh's . 
Ah , I'm afraid you wouldn't let me be serious even about your maples . 
Oh yes , I should if you like to be serious . 
Don't you ? Well not about serious matters . 
That's the reason that book made me cry . 
You make fun of everything . 
Miss Irene was telling me last night about you . 
Then it's no use for me to deny it so soon . 
I must give Irene a talking to . 
It would be hard to say how much of this she perceived that he felt . 
They talked about other things a while , and then she came back to what he had said . 
She glanced at him obliquely round her fan , and stopped moving it . 
Does Irene talk about me ? she asked . 
Perhaps it's only I who talk about you . 
You must blame me if it's wrong , he returned . 
Oh , I didn't say it was wrong , she replied . 
Penelope caught her breath , but went on resolutely , or rebuke you for speaking evil of dignities . 
She looked down at the fan , now flat in her lap , and tried to govern her head , but it trembled , and she remained looking down . 
Again they let the talk stray , and then it was he who brought it back to themselves , as if it had not left them . 
I have to talk OF you , said Corey , because I get to talk TO you so seldom . 
You mean that I do all the talking when we're together ? She glanced sidewise at him but she reddened after speaking the last word . 
We're so seldom together , he pursued . 
I don't know what you mean Sometimes I've thought I've been afraid that you avoided me . 
Avoided you ? Yes ! Tried not to be alone with me . 
She might have told him that there was no reason why she should be alone with him , and that it was very strange he should make this complaint of her . 
She kept looking down at the fan , and then she lifted her burning face and looked at the clock again . 
Mother and Irene will be sorry to miss you , she gasped . 
He instantly rose and came towards her . 
She rose too , and mechanically put out her hand . 
He took it as if to say good night . 
I didn't mean to send you away , she besought him . 
Oh , I'm not going , he answered simply . 
I wanted to say to say that it's I who make her talk about you . 
To say I There is something I want to say to you I've said it so often to myself that I feel as if you must know it . 
She stood quite still , letting him keep her hand , and questioning his face with a bewildered gaze . 
You MUST know she must have told you she must have guessed Penelope turned white , but outwardly quelled the panic that sent the blood to her heart . 
ME ! Whatever potential complicity had lurked in her heart , his words brought her only immeasurable dismay . 
He came towards her again . 
Who else ? She fended him off with an imploring gesture . 
I thought I it was She shut her lips tight , and stood looking at him where he remained in silent amaze . 
Then her words came again , shudderingly . 
Oh , what have you done ? Upon my soul , he said , with a vague smile , I don't know . 
I hope no harm ? Oh , don't laugh ! she cried , laughing hysterically herself . 
Unless you want me to think you the greatest wretch in the world ! I ? he responded . 
For heaven's sake tell me what you mean ! You know I can't tell you . 
I've been abrupt , I know , and I've startled you but if you love me , you can forgive that to my loving you so long before I spoke . 
She gazed at him with parted lips . 
Oh , mercy ! What shall I do ? If it's true what you say you must go ! she said . 
And you must never come any more . 
Do you promise that ? Certainly not , said the young man . 
Why should I promise such a thing so abominably wrong ? I could obey if you didn't love me Oh , I don't ! Indeed I don't ! Now will you obey . 
No. I don't believe you . 
Oh ! He possessed himself of her hand again . 
My love my dearest ! What is this trouble , that you can't tell it ? It can't be anything about yourself . 
If it is anything about any one else , it wouldn't make the least difference in the world , no matter what it was . 
I would be only too glad to show by any act or deed I could that nothing could change me towards you . 
Oh , you don't understand ! No , I don't . 
I will never do that . 
Then I will stay here till your mother comes , and ask her what it is . 
Well , then She stopped , and made two or three ineffectual efforts to begin again . 
No , no ! I can't . 
You must go ! I will not go ! You said you loved me . 
If you do , you will go . 
He dropped the hands he had stretched towards her , and she hid her face in her own . 
There ! she said , turning it suddenly upon him . 
And will you promise me on your honour not to speak not to try to persuade me not to touch me ? You won't touch me ? I will obey you , Penelope . 
As if you were never to see me again ? As if I were dying ? I will do what you say . 
But I shall see you again and don't talk of dying . 
She sat down too , and lifted her face towards him . 
It's the end of life for me , because I know now that I must have been playing false from the beginning . 
You don't know what I mean , and I can never tell you . 
It isn't my secret it's some one else's . 
You you must never come here again . 
I can't tell you why , and you must never try to know . 
Do you promise ? You can forbid me . 
I must do what you say . 
I do forbid you , then . 
And you shall not think I am cruel How could I think that ? Oh , how hard you make it ! Corey laughed for very despair . 
Can I make it easier by disobeying you ? I know I am talking crazily . 
But I 'm not crazy . 
Oh , my Dearest ! Wait ! Think ! Let me ask your mother your father She gave a cry . 
No ! If you do that , you will make me hate you ! Will you The rattling of a latch key was heard in the outer door . 
Corey turned to him in a daze . 
I I called to speak with you about a matter But it's so late now . 
I'll I'll see you to morrow . 
No time like the present , said Lapham , with a fierceness that did not seem referable to Corey . 
He had his hat still on , and he glared at the young man out of his blue eyes with a fire that something else must have kindled there . 
I really can't now , said Corey weakly . 
It will do quite as well to morrow . 
Good night , answered Lapham abruptly , following him to the door , and shutting it after him . 
I think the devil must have got into pretty much everybody to night , he muttered , coming back to the room , where he put down his hat . 
Then he went to the kitchen stairs and called down , Hello , Alice ! I want something to eat ! XVII . 
WHAT's the reason the girls never get down to breakfast any more ? asked Lapham , when he met his wife at the table in the morning . 
He had been up an hour and a half , and he spoke with the severity of a hungry man . 
It seems to me they don't amount to ANYthing . 
Here I am , at my time of life , up the first one in the house . 
Oh yes , you do , Si , said his wife soothingly . 
The girls are nearly always down . 
But they're young , and it tires them more than it does us to get up early . 
They don't do anything after they ARE up , grumbled Lapham . 
Well , that's your fault , ain't it ? You oughtn't to have made so much money , and then they'd have had to work . 
She laughed at Lapham's Spartan mood , and went on to excuse the young people . 
Irene's been up two nights hand running , and Penelope says she ain't well . 
What makes you so cross about the girls ? Been doing something you're ashamed of ? I'll tell you when I've been doing anything to be ashamed of , growled Lapham . 
Oh no , you won't ! said his wife jollily . 
You'll only be hard on the rest of us . 
I found him here when I came home , and he said he wanted to see me but he wouldn't stop . 
Where was he ? In the sitting room . 
Was Pen there ? I didn't see her . 
Mrs. Lapham paused , with her hand on the cream jug . 
Why , what in the land did he want ? Did he say he wanted you ? That's what he said . 
And then he wouldn't stay ? Well , then , I'll tell you just what it is , Silas Lapham . 
He came here she looked about the room and lowered her voice to see you about Irene , and then he hadn't the courage . 
I guess he's got courage enough to do pretty much what he wants to , said Lapham glumly . 
All I know is , he was here . 
You better ask Pen about it , if she ever gets down . 
I guess I shan't wait for her , said Mrs. Lapham and , as her husband closed the front door after him , she opened that of her daughter's room and entered abruptly . 
The girl sat at the window , fully dressed , and as if she had been sitting there a long time . 
Without rising , she turned her face towards her mother . 
It merely showed black against the light , and revealed nothing till her mother came close to her with successive questions . 
Well , I'll tell you what's happened . 
She rose , and then fell back in her chair . 
Lock the door ! she ordered , and her mother mechanically obeyed . 
I don't want Irene in here . 
Only , Mr. Corey offered himself to me last night . 
Her mother remained looking at her , helpless , not so much with amaze , perhaps , as dismay . 
Oh , I'm not a ghost ! I wish I was ! You had better sit down , mother . 
You have got to know all about it . 
Well , that's all , mother . 
I should say I had dreamt , it , if I had slept any last night but I guess it really happened . 
I don't know about killing myself , but I've been sitting up all night , answered the girl . 
You might as well said you did . 
It couldn't help Irene any , if you didn't . 
I always tried to help her with him , even when I Yes , I know . 
But she never was equal to him . 
I saw that from the start but I tried to blind myself to it . 
And when he kept coming You never thought of me ! cried the girl , with a bitterness that reached her mother's heart . 
No , said the mother humbly . 
I didn't think of you . 
Or I didn't think of you enough . 
It did come across me sometimes that may be But it didn't seem as if And your going on so for Irene You let me go on . 
You made me always go and talk with him for her , and you didn't think I would talk to him for myself . 
Well , I didn't ! I'm punished for it . 
When did you begin to care for him ! How do I know ? What difference does it make ? It's all over now , no matter when it began . 
He won't come here any more , unless I let him . 
She sat in an apathy from which she apparently could not rouse herself . 
I don't see as anything can be done . 
Penelope laughed in a pitying derision . 
Well , let things go on then . 
But they won't go on . 
No , they won't go on , echoed her mother . 
She's pretty enough , and she's capable and your father's got the money I don't know what I'm saying ! She ain't equal to him , and she never was . 
I kept feeling it all the time , and yet I kept blinding myself . 
If he had ever cared for her , said Penelope , it wouldn't have mattered whether she was equal to him or not . 
I'M not equal to him either . 
Her mother went on I might have thought it was you but I had got set Well ! I can see it all clear enough , now it's too late . 
I don't know what to do . 
And what do you expect me to do ? demanded the girl . 
Do you want ME to go to Irene and tell her that I've got him away from her ? O good Lord ! cried Mrs. Lapham . 
What shall I do ? What do you want I should do , Pen ? Nothing for me , said Penelope . 
I've had it out with myself . 
Now do the best you can for Irene . 
I couldn't say you had done wrong , if you was to marry him to day . 
Mother ! No , I couldn't . 
I couldn't say but what you had been good and faithfull all through , and you had a perfect right to do it . 
There ain't any one to blame . 
He's behaved like a gentleman , and I can see now that he never thought of her , and that it was you all the while . 
Well , marry him , then ! He's got the right , and so have you . 
What about Irene ? I don't want you to talk about me . 
I can take care of myself She's nothing but a child . 
It's only a fancy with her . 
She hain't really got her heart set on him . 
She's got her heart set on him , mother . 
She's got her whole life set on him . 
Yes , that's so , said the mother , as promptly as if she had been arguing to that rather than the contrary effect . 
If I could give him to her , I would . 
But he isn't mine to give . 
She added in a burst of despair , He isn't mine to keep ! Well , said Mrs. Lapham , she has got to bear it . 
I don't know what's to come of it all . 
But she's got to bear her share of it . 
She rose and went toward the door . 
Penelope ran after her in a sort of terror . 
You're not going to tell Irene ? she gasped , seizing her mother by either shoulder . 
Yes , I am , said Mrs. Lapham . 
If she's a woman grown , she can bear a woman's burden . 
I can't let you tell Irene , said the girl , letting fall her face on her mother's neck . 
Not Irene , she moaned . 
I'm afraid to let you . 
How can I ever look at her again ? Why , you haven't done anything , Pen , said her mother soothingly . 
I wanted to ! Yes , I must have done something . 
How could I help it ? I did care for him from the first , and I must have tried to make him like me . 
And I didn't try to make him think of her . 
I knew that I pleased him , and I tried to please him more . 
Perhaps I could have kept him from saying that he cared for me but when I saw he did I must have seen it I couldn't . 
I had never had him to myself , and for myself before . 
Yes I did like him ! Tell her that ! Or else I will . 
If it was to tell her he was dead , began Mrs. Lapham absently . 
How easy it would be ! cried the girl in self mockery . 
You can see the misery at the first glance , and you can't see more or less if you spend your life looking at it . 
She laughed again , as if the hopelessness of the thing amused her . 
Then she flew to the extreme of self assertion . 
Well , I HAVE a right to him , and he has a right to me . 
If he's never done anything to make her think he cared for her , and I know he hasn't it's all been our doing , then he's free and I'm free . 
We can't make her happy whatever we do and why shouldn't I No , that won't do ! I reached that point before ! She broke again into her desperate laugh . 
You may try now , mother ! I'd best speak to your father first Penelope smiled a little more forlornly than she had laughed . 
Well , yes the Colonel will have to know . 
It isn't a trouble that I can keep to myself exactly . 
It seems to belong to too many other people . 
Her mother took a crazy encouragement from her return to her old way of saying things . 
Perhaps he can think of something . 
Oh , I don't doubt but the Colonel will know just what to do ! You mustn't be too down hearted about it . 
It it'll all come right You tell Irene that , mother . 
Mrs. Lapham had put her hand on the door key she dropped it , and looked at the girl with a sort of beseeching appeal for the comfort she could not imagine herself . 
Don't look at me , mother , said Penelope , shaking her head . 
You know that if Irene were to die without knowing it , it wouldn't come right for me . 
Pen ! I've read of cases where a girl gives up the man that loves her so as to make some other girl happy that the man doesn't love . 
Your father would think you were a fool , said Mrs. Lapham , finding a sort of refuge in her strong disgust for the pseudo heroism . 
No ! If there's to be any giving up , let it be by the one that shan't make anybody but herself suffer . 
There's trouble and sorrow enough in the world , without MAKING it on purpose ! She unlocked the door , but Penelope slipped round and set herself against it . 
Irene shall not give up ! I will see your father about it , said the mother . 
Let me out now Don't let Irene come here ! No. I will tell her that you haven't slept . 
Go to bed now , and try to get some rest . 
She isn't up herself yet . 
You must have some breakfast . 
No let me sleep if I can . 
I can get something when I wake up . 
I'll come down if I can't sleep . 
Life has got to go on . 
It does when there's a death in the house , and this is only a little worse . 
Don't you talk nonsense ! cried Mrs. Lapham , with angry authority . 
Well , a little better , then , said Penelope , with meek concession . 
Mrs. Lapham attempted to say something , and could not . 
She went out and opened Irene's door . 
The girl lifted her head drowsily from her pillow Don't disturb your sister when you get up , Irene . 
She hasn't slept well PLEASE don't talk ! I'm almost DEAD with sleep ! returned Irene . 
Do go , mamma ! I shan't disturb her . 
She turned her face down in the pillow , and pulled the covering up over her ears . 
The mother slowly closed the door and went downstairs , feeling bewildered and baffled almost beyond the power to move . 
The time had been when she would have tried to find out why this judgment had been sent upon her . 
But now she could not feel that the innocent suffering of others was inflicted for her fault she shrank instinctively from that cruel and egotistic misinterpretation of the mystery of pain and loss . 
She was a woman who had been used to seek the light by striving she had hitherto literally worked to it . 
But it is the curse of prosperity that it takes work away from us , and shuts that door to hope and health of spirit . 
In this house , where everything had come to be done for her , she had no tasks to interpose between her and her despair . 
She started when she definitely thought of her husband , and thought with what violence it would work in every fibre of his rude strength . 
When she considered how wrongly he might take it all , it seemed as if it were already known to him , and she was impatient to prevent his error . 
She sent out for a messenger , whom she despatched with a note to his place of business Silas , I should like to ride with you this afternoon . 
Can't you come home early ? Persis . 
And she was at dinner with Irene , evading her questions about Penelope , when answer came that he would be at the house with the buggy at half past two . 
Seems to me you don't take very much interest , mamma ! she said , laughing and blushing at one point . 
Yes , yes , I do , protested Mrs. Lapham , and then the girl prattled on . 
I guess I shall get one of those pins that Nanny Corey had in her hair . 
It is just the thing for you ! But don't disturb Penelope . 
Let her alone till I get back . 
I'm going out to ride with your father . 
He'll be here in half an hour . 
Are you through ? Ring , then . 
Get yourself that fan you saw the other day . 
Your father won't say anything he likes to have you look well . 
I could see his eyes on you half the time the other night . 
I should have liked to have Pen go with me , said Irene , restored to her normal state of innocent selfishness by these flatteries . 
Don't you suppose she'll be up in time ? What's the matter with her that she didn't sleep ? I don't know . 
LAPHAM went away to put on her bonnet and cloak , and she was waiting at the window when her husband drove up . 
She opened the door and ran down the steps . 
Don't get out I can help myself in , and she clambered to his side , while he kept the fidgeting mare still with voice and touch . 
Where do you want I should go ? he asked , turning the buggy . 
Oh , I don't care . 
Out Brookline way , I guess . 
I wish you hadn't brought this fool of a horse , she gave way petulantly . 
I wanted to have a talk . 
When I can't drive this mare and talk too , I'll sell out altogether , said Lapham . 
She'll be quiet enough when she's had her spin . 
Well , said his wife and while they were making their way across the city to the Milldam she answered certain questions he asked about some points in the new house . 
Pretty sightly , said Lapham , with a long sign , letting the reins lie loose in his vigilant hand , to which he seemed to relegate the whole charge of the mare . 
I want to talk with you about Rogers , Persis . 
He's been getting in deeper and deeper with me and last night he pestered me half to death to go in with him in one of his schemes . 
I ain't going to blame anybody , but I hain't got very much confidence in Rogers . 
And I told him so last night . 
Oh , don't talk to me about Rogers ! his wife broke in . 
There's something a good deal more important than Rogers in the world , and more important than your business . 
It seems as if you couldn't think of anything else that and the new house . 
I declare Well , hold on , now ! said Lapham . 
What DO you want to talk about ? I'm listening . 
Lapham silently turned his whip over and over in his hand and waited . 
Did you suppose , she asked at last , that that young Corey had been coming to see Irene ? I don't know what I supposed , replied Lapham sullenly . 
He looked sharply at her under his lowering brows . 
Well , he hasn't , said Mrs. Lapham and she replied to the frown that blackened on her husband's face . 
And I can tell you what , if you take it in that way I shan't speak another word . 
Who's takin' it what way ? retorted Lapham savagely . 
What are you drivin' at ? I want you should promise that you'll hear me out quietly . 
I'll hear you out if you'll give me a chance . 
I haven't said a word yet . 
Well , I'm not going to have you flying into forty furies , and looking like a perfect thunder cloud at the very start . 
I've had to bear it , and you've got to bear it too . 
Well , let me have a chance at it , then . 
It's nothing to blame anybody about , as I can see , and the only question is , what's the best thing to do about it . 
There's only one thing we can do for if he don't care for the child , nobody wants to make him . 
If he hasn't been coming to see her , he hasn't , and that's all there is to it . 
No , it ain't ! exclaimed Lapham . 
There ! protested his wife . 
If he hasn't been coming to see her , what HAS he been coming for ? He's been coming to see Pen ! cried the wife . 
O Silas ! what are we going to do about it ? I'm afraid it'll kill Irene . 
Lapham pulled off the loose driving glove from his right hand with the fingers of his left , in which the reins lay . 
He passed it over his forehead , and then flicked from it the moisture it had gathered there . 
He caught his breath once or twice , like a man who meditates a struggle with superior force and then remains passive in its grasp . 
His wife felt the need of comforting him , as she had felt the need of afflicting him . 
I don't say but what it can be made to come out all right in the end . 
All I say is , I don't see my way clear yet . 
What makes you think he likes Pen ? he asked quietly . 
He told her so last night , and she told me this morning . 
Was he at the office to day ? Yes , he was there . 
I haven't been there much myself . 
He didn't say anything to me . 
Does Irene know ? No I left her getting ready to go out shopping . 
She wants to get a pin like the one Nanny Corey had on . 
O my Lord ! groaned Lapham . 
It's been Pen from the start , I guess , or almost from the start . 
Did it ever strike you he might be after Pen ? No. I took what you said . 
Do you blame me , Silas ? she asked timidly . 
No. What's the use of blaming ? We don't either of us want anything but the children's good . 
What's it all of it for , if it ain't for that ? That's what we've both slaved for all our lives . 
Plenty of people LOSE their children , she suggested . 
Yes , but that don't comfort me any . 
I never was one to feel good because another man felt bad . 
How would you have liked it if some one had taken comfort because his boy lived when ours died ? No , I can't do it . 
And this is worse than death , someways . 
That comes and it goes but this looks as if it was one of those things that had come to stay . 
The way I look at it , there ain't any hope for anybody . 
His huge head hung forward over his breast the reins lay loose in his moveless hand the mare took her own way . 
At last he lifted his face and shut his heavy jaws . 
Well ? quavered his wife . 
Well , he answered , if he wants her , and she wants him , I don't see what that's got to do with it . 
He looked straight forward , and not at his wife . 
She laid her hands on the reins . 
You had better NOT believe that , Persis ! Get up ! he called to the mare , without glancing at her , and she sprang forward . 
I see you've got past being any use to yourself on this subject . 
Hello ! shouted a voice in front of him . 
Where the devil you goin' to ? Do you want to KILL somebody ! shrieked his wife . 
There was a light crash , and the mare recoiled her length , and separated their wheels from those of the open buggy in front which Lapham had driven into . 
It was Lapham who resumed the talk . 
I'm afraid we can't either of us see this thing in the right light . 
We're too near to it . 
I wish to the Lord there was somebody to talk to about it . 
Yes , said his wife but there ain't anybody . 
Well , I dunno , suggested Lapham , after a moment why not talk to the minister of your church ? May be he could see some way out of it . 
Mrs. Lapham shook her head hopelessly . 
I've never taken up my connection with the church , and I don't feel as if I'd got any claim on him . 
Oh , that's nothing , said Mrs. Lapham . 
I ain't well enough acquainted with Dr . 
Langworthy , or else I'm TOO well . 
No if I was to ask any one , I should want to ask a total stranger . 
But what's the use , Si ? Nobody could make us see it any different from what it is , and I don't know as I should want they should . 
It blotted out the tender beauty of the day , and weighed down their hearts ever more heavily within them . 
They ceased to talk of it a hundred times , and still came back to it . 
They drove on and on . 
It began to be late . 
Lapham started the mare up and drove swiftly homeward . 
At last his wife stopped crying and began trying to find her pocket . 
Here , take mine , Persis , he said kindly , offering her his handkerchief , and she took it and dried her eyes with it . 
I guess he was a pretty good man . 
It was that Mr. Sewell . 
He looked at his wife , but she did not say anything . 
Persis , he resumed , I can't bear to go back with nothing settled in our minds . 
I can't bear to let you . 
We must , Si , returned his wife , with gentle gratitude . 
Where does he live ? she asked . 
He gave me his number . 
Well , it wouldn't do any good . 
Don't drive past the new house , Si , pleaded his wife . 
I couldn't bear to see it . 
Drive drive up Bolingbroke Street . 
We might as well see where he DOES live . 
That's the place , he said finally , stopping the mare and pointing with his whip . 
It wouldn't do any good , said his wife , in a tone which he understood as well as he understood her words . 
He turned the mare up to the curbstone . 
You take the reins a minute , he said , handing them to his wife . 
He got down and rang the bell , and waited till the door opened then he came back and lifted his wife out . 
He's in , he said . 
He got the hitching weight from under the buggy seat and made it fast to the mare's bit . 
Do you think she'll stand with that ? asked Mrs. Lapham . 
If she don't , no matter . 
Ain't you afraid she'll take cold , she persisted , trying to make delay . 
Let her ! said Lapham . 
He took his wife's trembling hand under his arm , and drew her to the door . 
He'll think we're crazy , she murmured in her broken pride . 
Well , we ARE , said Lapham . 
He spared Corey's name , but he did not pretend that it was not himself and his wife and their daughters who were concerned . 
I guess I didn't say so much as that to her but that's the way I felt . 
And if it ain't all right Surely , said Sewell , it's all right . 
I thank you for coming for trusting your trouble to me . 
A time comes to every one of us when we can't help ourselves , and then we must get others to help us . 
If people turn to me at such a time , I feel sure that I was put into the world for something if nothing more than to give my pity , my sympathy . 
The brotherly words , so plain , so sincere , had a welcome in them that these poor outcasts of sorrow could not doubt . 
Yes , said Lapham huskily , and his wife began to wipe the tears again under her veil . 
Sewell remained silent , and they waited till he should speak . 
We can be of use to one another here , because we can always be wiser for some one else than we can for ourselves . 
We can see another's sins and errors in a more merciful light and that is always a fairer light than we can our own and we can look more sanely at others' afflictions . 
He had addressed these words to Lapham now he turned to his wife . 
If some one had come to you , Mrs. Lapham , in just this perplexity , what would you have thought ? I don't know as I understand you , faltered Mrs. Lapham . 
There's no new trouble under the sun , said the minister . 
Oh , if it was any one else , I should say I should say Why , of course ! I should say that their duty was to let She paused . 
One suffer instead of three , if none is to blame ? suggested Sewell . 
That's sense , and that's justice . 
It's the economy of pain which naturally suggests itself , and which would insist upon itself , if we were not all perverted by traditions which are the figment of the shallowest sentimentality . 
Tell me , Mrs. Lapham , didn't this come into your mind when you first learned how matters stood ? Why , yes , it flashed across me . 
But I didn't think it could be right . 
And how was it with you , Mr. Lapham ? Why , that's what I thought , of course . 
But I didn't see my way No , cried the minister , we are all blinded , we are all weakened by a false ideal of self sacrifice . 
It wraps us round with its meshes , and we can't fight our way out of it . 
Mrs. Lapham , what made you feel that it might be better for three to suffer than one ? Why , she did herself . 
I know she would die sooner than take him away from her . 
I supposed so ! cried the minister bitterly . 
I don't know where this false ideal comes from , unless it comes from the novels that befool and debauch almost every intelligence in some degree . 
It certainly doesn't come from Christianity , which instantly repudiates it when confronted with it . 
You know what marriage is ! And what it must be without love on both sides . 
The minister had grown quite heated and red in the face . 
I lose all patience ! he went on vehemently . 
Her sister will suffer yes , keenly ! in heart and in pride but she will not die . 
You will suffer too , in your tenderness for her but you must do your duty . 
You must help her to give up . 
You would be guilty if you did less . 
Keep clearly in mind that you are doing right , and the only possible good . 
And God be with you ! XIX . 
HE talked sense , Persis , said Lapham gently , as he mounted to his wife's side in the buggy and drove slowly homeward through the dusk . 
Yes , he talked sense , she admitted . 
But she added bitterly , I guess , if he had it to DO ! Oh , he's right , and it's got to be done . 
There ain't any other way for it . 
It's sense and , yes , it's justice . 
They walked to their door after they left the horse at the livery stable around the corner , where Lapham kept it . 
I want you should send Irene up to our room as soon as we get in , Silas . 
Why , ain't you going to have any supper first ? faltered Lapham with his latch key in the lock . 
No. I can't lose a minute . 
If I do , I shan't do it at all . 
Look here , Persis , said her husband tenderly , let me do this thing . 
Oh , YOU ! said his wife , with a woman's compassionate scorn for a man's helplessness in such a case . 
And I shall feel She stopped to spare him . 
I guess your mother wants to see you upstairs , said Lapham , looking away . 
Irene ! she said harshly , there is something you have got to bear . 
It's a mistake we've all made . 
He don't care anything for you . 
He told Pen so last night . 
The sentences had fallen like blows . 
But the girl had taken them without flinching . 
She stood up immovable , but the delicate rose light of her complexion went out and left her colourless . 
She did not offer to speak . 
Why don't you say something ? cried her mother . 
Do you want to kill me , Irene ? Why should I want to hurt you , mamma ? the girl replied steadily , but in an alien voice . 
I want to see Pen a minute . 
She turned and left the room . 
As she mounted the stairs that led to her own and her sister's rooms on the floor above , her mother helplessly followed . 
Irene went first to her own room at the front of the house , and then came out leaving the door open and the gas flaring behind her . 
The mother could see that she had tumbled many things out of the drawers of her bureau upon the marble top . 
She passed her mother , where she stood in the entry . 
You can come too , if you want to , mamma , she said . 
She opened Penelope's door without knocking , and went in . 
Penelope sat at the window , as in the morning . 
It won't become a dark person so well , but you can have it . 
She stuck a scrap of paper in the side of Penelope's mirror . 
There's that account of Mr. Stanton's ranch . 
You'll want to read it , I presume . 
She laid a withered boutonniere on the bureau beside the pin . 
There's his button hole bouquet . 
He left it by his plate , and I stole it . 
She had a pine shaving fantastically tied up with a knot of ribbon , in her hand . 
She held it a moment then , looking deliberately at Penelope , she went up to her , and dropped it in her lap without a word . 
She turned , and , advancing a few steps , tottered and seemed about to fall . 
Her mother sprang forward with an imploring cry , O 'Rene , 'Rene , 'Rene ! Irene recovered herself before her mother could reach her . 
Don't touch me , she said icily . 
Mamma , I'm going to put on my things . 
I want papa to walk with me . 
I I can't let you go out , Irene , child , began her mother . 
You've got to , replied the girl . 
Tell papa ta hurry his supper . 
O poor soul ! He doesn't want any supper . 
I don't want to talk about that . 
Tell him to get ready . 
She left them once more . 
Mrs. Lapham turned a hapless glance upon Penelope . 
Go and tell him , mother , said the girl . 
I would , if I could . 
If she can walk , let her . 
It's the only thing for her . 
Lapham went out with the unhappy child , and began to talk with her , crazily , incoherently , enough . 
I don't want any one should talk with me . 
He obeyed , and they walked silently on and on . 
In their aimless course they reached the new house on the water side of Beacon , and she made him stop , and stood looking up at it . 
Seymour had pretty nearly satisfied himself in that rich facade certainly Lapham had not stinted him of the means . 
Well , said the girl , I shall never live in it , and she began to walk on . 
Lapham's sore heart went down , as he lumbered heavily after her . 
Oh yes , you will , Irene . 
You'll have lots of good times there yet . 
No , she answered , and said nothing more about it . 
They had not talked of their trouble at all , and they did not speak of it now . 
Lapham understood that she was trying to walk herself weary , and he was glad to hold his peace and let her have her way . 
She halted him once more before the red and yellow lights of an apothecary's window . 
Isn't there something they give you to make you sleep ? she asked vaguely . 
I've got to sleep to night ! Lapham trembled . 
I guess you don't want anything , Irene . 
Yes , I do ! Get me something ! she retorted wilfully . 
If you don't , I shall die . 
They went in , and Lapham asked for something to make a nervous person sleep . 
Irene stood poring over the show case full of brushes and trinkets , while the apothecary put up the bromide , which he guessed would be about the best thing . 
She did not show any emotion her face was like a stone , while her father's expressed the anguish of his sympathy . 
He looked as if he had not slept for a week his fat eyelids drooped over his glassy eyes , and his cheeks and throat hung flaccid . 
I guess it won't take a great many to fetch you . 
All right , said Lapham , and paid and went out . 
I don't know but I SHALL want some of it , he said , with a joyless laugh . 
Irene came closer up to him and took his arm . 
He laid his heavy paw on her gloved fingers . 
After a while she said , I want you should let me go up to Lapham to morrow . 
To Lapham ? Why , to morrow's Sunday , Irene ! You can't go to morrow . 
Well , Monday , then . 
I can live through one day here . 
Well , said the father passively . 
He made no pretence of asking her why she wished to go , nor any attempt to dissuade her . 
Give me that bottle , she said , when he opened the door at home for her , and she ran up to her own room . 
The next morning Irene came to breakfast with her mother the Colonel and Penelope did not appear , and Mrs. Lapham looked sleep broken and careworn . 
The girl glanced at her . 
Don't you fret about me , mamma , she said . 
She seemed herself as steady and strong as rock . 
I don't like to see you keeping up so , Irene , replied her mother . 
It'll be all the worse for you when you do break . 
Better give way a little at the start I shan't break , and I've given way all I'm going to . 
I'm going to Lapham to morrow , I want you should go with me , mamma , and I guess I can keep up one day here . 
All about it is , I don't want you should say anything , or LOOK anything . 
And , whatever I do , I don't want you should try to stop me . 
And , the first thing , I'm going to take her breakfast up to her . 
Don't ! she cried , intercepting the protest on her mother's lips . 
I shall not let it hurt Pen , if I can help it . 
She's never done a thing nor thought a thing to wrong me . 
I had to fly out at her last night but that's all over now , and I know just what I've got to bear . 
She had her way unmolested . 
She carried Penelope's breakfast to her , and omitted no care or attention that could make the sacrifice complete , with an heroic pretence that she was performing no unusual service . 
And , though two or three times they turned their faces toward each other while Irene remained in the room , mechanically putting its confusion to rights , their eyes did not meet . 
Then Irene descended upon the other rooms , which she set in order , and some of which she fiercely swept and dusted . 
She made the beds and she sent the two servants away to church as soon as they had eaten their breakfast , telling them that she would wash their dishes . 
They sat alone in the family room , out of which their two girls seemed to have died . 
Lapham could not read his Sunday papers , and she had no heart to go to church , as she would have done earlier in life when in trouble . 
Just then she was obscurely feeling that the church was somehow to blame for that counsel of Mr. Sewell's on which they had acted . 
I should like to know , she said , having brought the matter up , whether he would have thought it was such a light matter if it had been his own children . 
Do you suppose he'd have been so ready to act on his own advice if it HAD been ? He told us the right thing to do , Persis , the only thing . 
We couldn't let it go on , urged her husband gently . 
Well , it makes me despise Pen ! Irene's showing twice the character that she is , this very minute . 
The mother said this so that the father might defend her daughter to her . 
Irene's got the easiest part , the way I look at it . 
And you'll see that Pen'll know how to behave when the time comes . 
What do you want she should do ? I haven't got so far as that yet . 
This seemed to satisfy Mrs. Lapham as to her husband , and she said in defence of Corey , Why , I don't see what HE'S done . 
It's all been our doing . 
What about Irene ? She says she's going to Lapham to morrow . 
She feels that she's got to get away somewhere . 
Yes , and I presume it will be about the best thing FOR her . 
Shall you go with her ? Yes . 
He comfortlessly took up a newspaper again , and she rose with a sigh , and went to her room to pack some things for the morrow's journey . 
It was a repetition of the aimlessness of the last night's wanderings . 
Yes it's a thing she's got to fight out by herself , said Mrs Lapham . 
I guess she'll get along , said Lapham . 
But I don't want you should misjudge Pen either . 
But I can't work round to it all at once . 
I shan't misjudge her , but you can't expect me to get over it right away . 
Did she say anything , about me ? She said he mustn't come here any more . 
Irene turned and went into her sister's room . 
Good bye , Pen , she said , kissing her with an effect of not seeing or touching her . 
I want you should tell him all about it . 
If he's half a man , he won't give up till he knows why you won't have him and he has a right to know . 
It wouldn't make any difference . 
I couldn't have him after That's for you to say . 
But if you don't tell him about me , I will . 
'Rene ! Yes ! You needn't say I cared for him . 
But you can say that you all thought he cared for me . 
O Irene Don't ! Irene escaped from the arms that tried to cast themselves about her . 
You are all right , Pen . 
You've helped me all you could . 
She went out of the room and summoned Mrs. Lapham with a sharp Now , mamma ! and went on putting the last things into her trunks . 
The Colonel went to the station with them , and put them on the train . 
I don't believe it'll be dusty , any , after the rain last night . 
Don't you stay till the train starts , papa , returned the girl , in rigid rejection of his futilities . 
Well , if you want I should , he said , glad to be able to please her in anything . 
He remained on the platform till the cars started . 
He saw Irene bustling about in the compartment , making her mother comfortable for the journey but Mrs. Lapham did not lift her head . 
The train moved off , and he went heavily back to his business . 
Corey shut the door behind them . 
I only wish to speak to you in case you know of the matter already for otherwise I'm bound by a promise . 
I guess I know what you mean . 
Yes , it's about Miss Lapham . 
I am greatly attached to her you'll excuse my saying it I couldn't excuse myself if I were not . 
Perfectly excusable , said Lapham . 
Oh , I'm glad to hear you say that ! cried the young fellow joyfully . 
I want you to believe that this isn't a new thing or an unconsidered thing with me though it seemed so unexpected to her . 
Lapham fetched a deep sigh . 
It's all right as far as I'm concerned or her mother . 
We've both liked you first rate . 
Yes ? But there seems to be something in Penelope's mind I don't know The Colonel consciously dropped his eyes . 
She referred to something I couldn't make out what but I hoped I hoped that with your leave I might overcome it the barrier whatever it was . 
Miss Lapham Penelope gave me the hope that I was wasn't indifferent to her Yes , I guess that's so , said Lapham . 
He suddenly lifted his head , and confronted the young fellow's honest face with his own face , so different in its honesty . 
I don't want you should go upon that idea . 
I just thought , may be you hadn't thought of it . 
Well , don't take it too much to heart , said Lapham , alarmed at the feeling he had excited I don't say she thought so . 
I was trying to guess trying to If there is anything I can say or do to convince you Oh , it ain't necessary to say anything . 
At the same time he could not help feeling that Penelope had a right to what was her own , and Sewell's words came back to him . 
Besides , they had already put Irene to the worst suffering . 
Lapham compromised , as he imagined . 
You can come round to night and see ME , if you want to , he said and he bore grimly the gratitude that the young man poured out upon him . 
Penelope came down to supper and took her mother's place at the head of the table . 
Lapham sat silent in her presence as long as he could bear it . 
Then he asked , How do you feel to night , Pen ? Oh , like a thief , said the girl . 
A thief that hasn't been arrested yet . 
Lapham waited a while before he said , Well , now , your mother and I want you should hold up on that a while . 
It isn't for you to say . 
It's something I can't hold up on . 
Yes , I guess you can . 
If I know what's happened , then what's happened is a thing that nobody is to blame for . 
And we want you should make the best of it and not the worst . 
Heigh ? It aint going to help Irene any for you to hurt yourself or anybody else and I don't want you should take up with any such crazy notion . 
As far as heard from , you haven't stolen anything , and whatever you've got belongs to you . 
Has he been speaking to you , father ? Your mother's been speaking to me . 
Has HE been speaking to you ? That's neither here nor there . 
Recollect that it's my business , and your mother's business , as well as yours , and we're going to have our say . 
He hain't done anything wrong , Pen , nor anything that he's going to be punished for . 
He's got to have a reason , if you're not going to have him . 
I don't say you've got to have him I want you should feel perfectly free about that but I DO say you've got to give him a reason . 
Is he coming here ? I don't know as you'd call it COMING Yes , you do , father ! said the girl , in forlorn amusement at his shuffling . 
He's coming here to see ME When's he coming ? I don't know but he's coming to night . 
And you want I should see him I I don't know but you'd better . 
Lapham drew a long deep breath of suspicion inspired by this acquiescence . 
What you going to do ? he asked presently . 
I don't know yet , answered the girl sadly . 
It depends a good deal upon what he does . 
Well , said Lapham , with the hungriness of unsatisfied anxiety in his tone . 
When Corey's card was brought into the family room where he and Penelope were sitting , he went into the parlour to find him . 
I guess Penelope wants to see you , he said and , indicating the family room , he added , She's in there , and did not go back himself . 
Corey made his way to the girl's presence with open trepidation , which was not allayed by her silence and languor . 
She sat in the chair where she had sat the other night , but she was not playing with a fan now . 
He came toward her , and then stood faltering . 
A faint smile quivered over her face at the spectacle of his subjection . 
Sit down , Mr. Corey , she said . 
There's no reason why we shouldn't talk it over quietly for I know you will think I'm right . 
I'm sure of that , he answered hopefully . 
When I saw that your father knew of it to day , I asked him to let me see you again . 
I'm afraid that I broke my promise to you technically It had to be broken . 
He took more courage at her words . 
But I've only come to do whatever you say , and not to be an annoyance to you Yes , you have to know but I couldn't tell you before . 
Now they all think I should . 
A tremor of anxiety passed over the young man's face , on which she kept her eyes steadily fixed . 
I see how terrible it is ! he said but he still smiled , as if he could not take it seriously . 
I admired her beauty who could help doing that ? and I thought her very good and sensible . 
Oh , good heavens ! He didn't tell me till after he'd done it . 
But he did it for a part of our foolish joke . 
And when I met your sister again , I only admired her as before . 
I see how distressing it is for all of you . 
But tell me that you believe me ! Yes , I must . 
That only makes it worse ! she answered . 
Oh no ! he gently protested . 
Did she did your sister think that too ? gasped Corey . 
She used to talk with me about you and when you say you care for me now , it makes me feel like the vilest hypocrite in the world . 
But she knows I can never forgive myself ! That's the reason she can do it . 
I can see now , she went on , how I must have been trying to get you from her . 
I can't endure it ! The only way is for me never to see you or speak to you again ! She laughed forlornly . 
That would be pretty hard on you , if you cared . 
I do care all the world ! Well , then , it would if you were going to keep on caring . 
You won't long , if you stop coming now . 
Is this all , then ? Is it the end ? It's whatever it is . 
I can't get over the thought of her . 
Once I thought I could , but now I see that I can't . 
It seems to grow worse . 
Sometimes I feel as if it would drive me crazy . 
He sat looking at her with lacklustre eyes . 
The light suddenly came back into them . 
Do you think I could love you if you had been false to her ? I know you have been true to her , and truer still to yourself . 
I never tried to see her , except with the hope of seeing you too . 
I supposed she must know that I was in love with you . 
From the first time I saw you there that afternoon , you filled my fancy . 
Do you think I was flirting with the child , or no , you don't think that ! We have not done wrong . 
We have not harmed any one knowingly . 
We have a right to each other No ! no ! you must never speak to me of this again . 
If you do , I shall know that you despise me . 
But how will that help her ? I don't love HER . 
Don't say that to me ! I have said that to myself too much . 
If you forbid me to love you , it won't make me love her , he persisted . 
She was about to speak , but she caught her breath without doing so , and merely stared at him . 
I must do what you say , he continued . 
But what good will it do her ? You can't make her happy by making yourself unhappy . 
Do you ask me to profit by a wrong ? Not for the world . 
But there is no wrong ! There is something I don't know what . 
There's a wall between us . 
I shall dash myself against it as long as I live but that won't break it . 
We have done no wrong . 
Why should we suffer from another's mistake as if it were our sin ? I don't know . 
Well , then , I WILL not , for my part , and I will not let you . 
If you care for me You had no right to know it . 
You make it my privilege to keep you from doing wrong for the right's sake . 
I'm sorry , with all my heart and soul , for this error but I can't blame myself , and I won't deny myself the happiness I haven't done anything to forfeit . 
I will never give you up . 
I will wait as long as you please for the time when you shall feel free from this mistake but you shall be mine at last . 
It won't change anything ? Don't you see that there's no hope for us ? When is she coming back ? he asked . 
Mother wants father to come and take her out West for a while . 
She's up there in the country with your mother yet ? Yes . 
He was silent then he said desperately Penelope , she is very young and perhaps perhaps she might meet It would make no difference . 
It wouldn't change it for me . 
You are cruel cruel to yourself , if you love me , and cruel to me . 
Don't you remember that night before I spoke you were talking of that book and you said it was foolish and wicked to do as that girl did . 
Sometimes I think it might be if I would only say so to myself , and then all that I said to her about you comes up I will wait . 
It can't always come up . 
I won't urge you any longer now . 
But you will see it differently more clearly . 
Good bye no ! Good night ! I shall come again to morrow . 
It will surely come right , and , whatever happens , you have done no wrong . 
Try to keep that in mind . 
I am so happy , in spite of all ! He tried to take her hand , but she put it behind her . 
No , no ! I can't let you yet ! XX . 
AFTER a week Mrs. Lapham returned , leaving Irene alone at the old homestead in Vermont . 
She keeps herself busy helping about the house and she goes round amongst the hands in their houses . 
There's sickness , and you know how helpful she is where there's sickness . 
I don't know as I've heard a word out of her mouth since we left home but I'm afraid it'll wear on her , Silas . 
You don't look over and above well yourself , Persis , said her husband kindly . 
Oh , don't talk about me . 
What I want to know is whether you can't get the time to run off with her somewhere . 
I wrote to you about Dubuque . 
She'll work herself down , I'm afraid and THEN I don't know as she'll be over it . 
But if she could go off , and be amused see new people I could MAKE the time , said Lapham , if I had to . 
But , as it happens , I've got to go out West on business , I'll tell you about it , and I'll take Irene along . 
Good ! said his wife . 
That's about the best thing I've heard yet . 
Where you going ? Out Dubuque way . 
Anything the matter with Bill's folks ? No. It's business . 
How's Pen ? I guess she ain't much better than Irene . 
He been about any ? Yes . 
But I can't see as it helps matters much . 
Tchk ! Mrs. Lapham fell back against the carriage cushions . 
I declare , to see her willing to take the man that we all thought wanted her sister ! I can't make it seem right . 
It's right , said Lapham stoutly but I guess she ain't willing I wish she was . 
But there don't seem to be any way out of the thing , anywhere . 
But I don't want you should be anyways ha'sh with Pen . 
Mrs. Lapham answered nothing but when she met Penelope she gave the girl's wan face a sharp look , and began to whimper on her neck . 
Penelope's tears were all spent . 
Well , mother , she said , you come back almost as cheerful as you went away . 
I needn't ask if 'Rene's in good spirits . 
We all seem to be overflowing with them . 
I suppose this is one way of congratulating me . 
Mrs. Corey hasn't been round to do it yet . 
Are you are you engaged to him , Pen ? gasped her mother . 
Judging by my feelings , I should say not . 
I feel as if it was a last will and testament . 
But you'd better ask him when he comes . 
I can't bear to look at him . 
I guess he's used to that . 
He don't seem to expect to be looked at . 
Well ! we're all just where we started . 
I wonder how long it will keep up . 
And she don't know how to work it off . 
Irene keeps doing but Pen just sits in her room and mopes . 
She sat there with her hands in her lap , just staring . 
Lapham listened jadedly , and answered far from the point . 
I guess I've got to start out there pretty soon , Persis . 
How soon ? Well , to morrow morning . 
Then , All right , she said . 
I shall run up to Lapham for Irene , and then I'll push on through Canada . 
I can get there about as quick . 
Is it anything you can tell me about , Silas ? Yes , said Lapham . 
But it's a long story , and I guess you've got your hands pretty full as it is . 
I've been throwing good money after bad , the usual way , and now I've got to see if I can save the pieces . 
After a moment Mrs. Lapham asked , Is it Rogers ? It's Rogers . 
I didn't want you should get in any deeper with him . 
No. You didn't want I should press him either and I had to do one or the other . 
And so I got in deeper . 
Silas , said his wife , I'm afraid I made you ! It's all right , Persis , as far forth as that goes . 
I was glad to make it up with him I jumped at the chance . 
I guess Rogers saw that he had a soft thing in me , and he's worked it for all it was worth . 
But it'll all come out right in the end . 
Lapham said this as if he did not care to talk any more about it . 
He added casually , Pretty near everybody but the fellows that owe ME seem to expect me to do a cash business , all of a sudden . 
Do you mean that you've got payments to make , and that people are not paying YOU ? Lapham winced a little . 
Something like that , he said , and he lighted a cigar . 
But when I tell you it's all right , I mean it , Persis . 
I ain't going to let the grass grow under my feet , though , especially while Rogers digs the ground away from the roots . 
What are you going to do ? If it has to come to that , I'm going to squeeze him . 
Lapham's countenance lighted up with greater joy than had yet visited it since the day they had driven out to Brookline . 
Milton K. Rogers is a rascal , if you want to know or else all the signs fail . 
But I guess he'll find he's got his come uppance . 
Lapham shut his lips so that the short , reddish grey beard stuck straight out on them . 
But you can't make Milton K. Rogers rich , any more than you can fat a hide bound colt . 
Well , he won't borrow any more money of ME and if he thinks I don't know as much about that milling property as he does he's mistaken . 
I don't understand you , Silas . 
Why , it's just this . 
And Milton K. Rogers knew it when he turned 'em in on me . 
And do you suppose he knew the G. L. P. wanted the mills when he turned them in on you ? asked Mrs. Lapham aghast , and falling helplessly into his alphabetical parlance . 
Well , when Milton K. Rogers don't know which side his bread's buttered on ! I don't understand , he added thoughtfully , how he's always letting it fall on the buttered side . 
But such a man as that is sure to have a screw loose in him somewhere . 
I want you should think whether you're not responsible for everything he's done since . 
You go and get that bag of mine ready , said Lapham sullenly . 
I guess I can take care of myself . 
And Milton K. Rogers too , he added . 
At last , in coming down , he encountered her on the stairs , going up . 
I would like to speak with you , mother . 
I have been waiting to see you alone . 
Come to my room , she said . 
I have a feeling that you know what I want to say , he began there . 
I wish you did I wish you could ! I'm used to liking and approving everything you do , Tom . 
If I don't like this at once , I shall try to like it you know that for your sake , whatever it is . 
I'd better be short , he said , with a quick sigh . 
He hastened to add , I hope it isn't surprising to you . 
I'd have told you before , if I could . 
No , it isn't surprising . 
I was afraid I suspected something of the kind . 
They were both silent in a painful silence . 
Well , mother ? he asked at last . 
If it's something you've quite made up mind to It is ! And if you've already spoken to her I had to do that first , of course . 
There would be no use of my saying anything , even if I disliked it . 
You do dislike it ! No no ! I can't say that . 
I have tried to consider them from the first , and it kept me hesitating in a way that I'm ashamed to think of for it wasn't quite right towards others . 
His mother hastened to comfort him . 
I've seen for some time that this might happen , Tom , and I have prepared myself for it . 
I have talked it over with your father , and we both agreed from the beginning that you were not to be hampered by our feeling . 
Still it is a surprise . 
I can understand your feeling . 
But I'm sure that it's one that will last only while you don't know her well . 
Oh , I'm sure of that , Tom . 
I'm sure that we shall all be fond of her , for your sake at first , even and I hope she'll like us . 
I am quite certain of that , said Corey , with that confidence which experience does not always confirm in such cases . 
And your taking it as you do lifts a tremendous load off me . 
But he sighed so heavily , and looked so troubled , that his mother said , Well , now , you mustn't think of that any more . 
We wish what is for your happiness , my son , and we will gladly reconcile ourselves to anything that might have been disagreeable . 
I suppose we needn't speak of the family . 
We must both think alike about them . 
They have their drawbacks , but they are thoroughly good people , and I satisfied myself the other night that they were not to be dreaded . 
She rose , and put her arm round his neck . 
And I wish you joy , Tom ! If she's half as good as you are , you will both be very happy . 
She was going to kiss him , but something in his looks stopped her an absence , a trouble , which broke out in his words . 
I must tell you , mother ! There's been a complication a mistake that's a blight on me yet , and that it sometimes seems as if we couldn't escape from . 
I wonder if you can help us ! They all thought I meant the other sister . 
O Tom ! But how COULD they ? I don't know . 
It seemed so glaringly plain I was ashamed of making it so outright from the beginning . 
What do you mean , Tom ? Did you did did you think so too that it was IRENE I meant ? Why , of course ! He stared at her hopelessly . 
O my son ! she said , for all comment on the situation . 
Don't reproach me , mother ! I couldn't stand it . 
No. I didn't mean to do that . 
But how HOW could it happen ? I don't know . 
When she first told me that they had understood it so , I laughed almost it was so far from me . 
But now when you seem to have had the same idea Did you all think so ? Yes . 
They remained looking at each other . 
But I never thought of her as anything but a pretty child . 
I was civil to her because you wished it and when I met her here again , I only tried to see her so that I could talk with her about her sister . 
You needn't defend yourself to ME , Tom , said his mother , proud to say it to him in his trouble . 
It's a terrible business for them , poor things , she added . 
I don't know how they could get over it . 
But , of course , sensible people must see They haven't got over it . 
Now I never think of that . 
I only think how good she is how patient she is with me , and how unsparing she is of herself . 
If she were concerned alone if I were not concerned too it would soon end . 
She's never had a thought for anything but her sister's feeling and mine from the beginning . 
I go there , I know that I oughtn't , but I can't help it , and she suffers it , and tries not to let me see that she is suffering it . 
There never was any one like her so brave , so true , so noble . 
I won't give her up I can't . 
But it breaks my heart when she accuses herself of what was all MY doing . 
We spend our time trying to reason out of it , but we always come back to it at last , and I have to hear her morbidly blaming herself . 
She tried to praise Penelope , and said that it was not to be expected that she could reconcile herself at once to everything . 
I shouldn't have liked it in her if she had . 
But time will bring it all right . 
And if she really cares for you I extorted that from her . 
Well , then , you must look at it in the best light you can . 
There is no blame anywhere , and the mortification and pain is something that must be lived down . 
And don't let what I said grieve you , Tom . 
You know I scarcely knew her , and I I shall be sure to like any one you like , after all . 
Yes , I know , said the young man drearily . 
Will you tell father ? If you wish . 
And I couldn't stand any more of this , just yet any more mistake . 
Oh no ! Don't go not yet , cried Corey , with an instinctive perception that nothing could be worse for him . 
We must wait we must be patient . 
I'm afraid it would be painful to her now . 
He turned away without speaking further and his mother's eyes followed him wistfully to the door . 
There were some questions that she would have liked to ask him but she had to content herself with trying to answer them when her husband put them to her . 
There was this comfort for her always in Bromfield Corey , that he never was much surprised at anything , however shocking or painful . 
He laughed now when his wife , with careful preparation , got the facts of his son's predicament fully under his eye . 
Really , Bromfield , she said , I don't see how you can laugh . 
Do you see any way out of it ? It seems to me that the way has been found already . 
Tom has told his love to the right one , and the wrong one knows it . 
Time will do the rest . 
If I had so low an opinion of them all as that , it would make me very unhappy . 
It's shocking to think of it . 
I've no doubt Tom feels himself an awful sinner . 
But apparently he's resigned to his sin he isn't going to give her up . 
I'm glad to say , for the sake of human nature , that SHE isn't resigned little as I like her , cried Mrs. Corey . 
Oh , there mustn't be any indecent haste . 
She will instinctively observe the proprieties . 
You may regard this as a second marriage . 
He looked at her with twinkling eyes , full of the triumph the spectator of his species feels in signal exhibitions of human nature . 
Depend upon it , the right sister will be reconciled the wrong one will be consoled and all will go merry as a marriage bell a second marriage bell . 
Why , it's quite like a romance ! Here he laughed outright again . 
Well , sighed the wife , I could almost wish the right one , as you call her , would reject Tom , I dislike her so much . 
Ah , now you're talking business , Anna , said her husband , with his hands spread behind the back he turned comfortably to the fire . 
The whole Lapham tribe is distasteful to me . 
Do you really feel so , Bromfield ? anxiously inquired his wife . 
Yes I think I do and he sat down , and stretched out his long legs toward the fire . 
But it's very inconsistent of you to oppose the matter now , when you've shown so much indifference up to this time . 
You've told me , all along , that it was of no use to oppose it . 
I was convinced of that at the beginning , or my reason was . 
You know very well that I am equal to any trial , any sacrifice , day after to morrow but when it comes to day it's another thing . 
I say to myself that I might as well have yielded to the pressure all round me , and gone to work , as Tom has . 
Mrs. Corey looked at him forlornly , divining the core of real repugnance that existed in his self satire . 
I assure you , my dear , he continued , that the recollection of what I suffered from the Laphams at that dinner of yours is an anguish still . 
It wasn't their behaviour , they behaved well enough or ill enough but their conversation was terrible . 
I suppose we shall have to see a good deal of them . 
They will probably come here every Sunday night to tea . 
It's a perspective without a vanishing point . 
It may not be so bad , after all , said his wife and she suggested for his consolation that he knew very little about the Laphams yet . 
He assented to the fact . 
I know very little about them , and about my other fellow beings . 
I dare say that I should like the Laphams better if I knew them better . 
But in any case , I resign myself . 
And we must keep in view the fact that this is mainly Tom's affair , and if his affections have regulated it to his satisfaction , we must be content . 
Oh yes , sighed Mrs. Corey . 
And perhaps it won't turn out so badly . 
It's a great comfort to know that you feel just as I do about it . 
I do , said her husband , and more too . 
It was she and her daughters who would be chiefly annoyed by the Lapham connection she knew that . 
But she had to begin to bear the burden by helping her husband to bear his light share of it . 
But that would not have served any good end now . 
Yes , you had quite enough to do , I suppose . 
If it had been the pretty one , her beauty would have been our excuse . 
But the plain one what do you suppose attracted him in her ? Mrs. Corey sighed at the futility of the question . 
Perhaps I did her injustice . 
I only saw her a few moments . 
Perhaps I got a false impression . 
I don't think she's lacking in sense , and that's a great thing . 
She'll be quick to see that we don't mean unkindness , and can't , by anything we say or do , when she's Tom's wife . 
She pronounced the distasteful word with courage , and went on The pretty one might not have been able to see that . 
She might have got it into her head that we were looking down on her and those insipid people are terribly stubborn . 
We can come to some understanding with this one I'm sure of that . 
She ended by declaring that it was now their duty to help Tom out of his terrible predicament . 
Oh , even the Lapham cloud has a silver lining , said Corey . 
In fact , it seems really to have all turned out for the best , Anna though it's rather curious to find you the champion of the Lapham side , at last . 
Oh yes , sighed Mrs. Corey . 
It's natural , and it's right . 
But she added , I suppose they're glad of him on any terms . 
That is what I have been taught to believe , said her husband . 
When shall we see our daughter in law elect ? I find myself rather impatient to have that part of it over . 
Tom thinks we had better not call , just yet . 
She has told him of your terrible behaviour when you called before ? No , Bromfield ! She couldn't be so vulgar as that ? But anything short of it ? XXI . 
LAPHAM was gone a fortnight . 
He was in a sullen humour when he came back , and kept himself shut close within his own den at the office the first day . 
Corey looked up innocently , and said , I haven't read the weather report . 
Yes , sir , Walker continued , it's coming . 
Areas of rain along the whole coast , and increased pressure in the region of the private office . 
Storm signals up at the old man's door now . 
Corey perceived that he was speaking figuratively , and that his meteorology was entirely personal to Lapham . 
What do you mean ? he asked , without vivid interest in the allegory , his mind being full of his own tragi comedy . 
Why , just this I guess the old man's takin' in sail . 
And I guess he's got to . 
I guess he's over head and ears in 'em , and the old man's gone in after him , and he's got a drownin' man's grip round his neck . 
And just now there ain't any boom at all . 
Walker began to feed in his breaded chop with the same nervous excitement with which he abandoned himself to the slangy and figurative excesses of his talks . 
Corey had listened with a miserable curiosity and compassion up to a certain moment , when a broad light of hope flashed upon him . 
Walker could not rest till he had developed the whole situation , so far as he knew it . 
Look at the stock we've got on hand . 
Well , it's his pride . 
Of course , explained Walker , I shouldn't talk so to everybody don't know as I should talk so to anybody but you , Mr. Corey . 
Of course , assented Corey . 
Little off your feed to day , said Walker , glancing at Corey's plate . 
I got up with a headache . 
Well , sir , if you're like me you'll carry it round all day , then . 
Notice how yellow the old man looked when he came in this morning ? I don't like to see a man of his build look yellow much . 
About the middle of the afternoon the dust coloured face of Rogers , now familiar to Lapham's clerks , showed itself among them . 
Has Colonel Lapham returned yet ? he asked , in his dry , wooden tones , of Lapham's boy . 
Yes , he's in his office , said the boy and as Rogers advanced , he rose and added , I don't know as you can see him to day . 
His orders are not to let anybody in . 
Oh , indeed ! said Rogers I think he will see ME ! and he pressed forward . 
Well , I'll have to ask , returned the boy and hastily preceding Rogers , he put his head in at Lapham's door , and then withdrew it . 
Please to sit down , he said he'll see you pretty soon and , with an air of some surprise , Rogers obeyed . 
What his face expressed chiefly was a bland and beneficent caution . 
What do you want ? asked Lapham , wheeling round in his swivel chair as Rogers entered his room , and pushing the door shut with his foot , without rising . 
Rogers took the chair that was not offered him , and sat with his hat brim on his knees , and its crown pointed towards Lapham . 
I want to know what you are going to do , he answered with sufficient self possession . 
I'll tell you , first , what I've done , said Lapham . 
I've been to Dubuque , and I've found out all about that milling property you turned in on me . 
Did you know that the G. L. P. had leased the P. Y. X. ? I some suspected that it might . 
You lie , said Lapham , as quietly as if correcting him in a slight error and Rogers took the word with equal sang froid . 
You knew the road wouldn't give a fair price for the mills . 
You knew it would give what it chose , and that I couldn't help myself , when you let me take them . 
You're a thief , Milton K. Rogers , and you stole money I lent you . 
Rogers sat listening , as if respectfully considering the statements . 
You knew how I felt about that old matter or my wife did and that I wanted to make it up to you , if you felt anyway badly used . 
And you took advantage of it . 
And all I've got to show for it is a milling property on a line of road that can squeeze me , whenever it wants to , as dry as it pleases . 
And you want to know what I'm going to do ? I'm going to squeeze YOU . 
I ain't going to fight the G. L. P. Lapham wheeled about in his chair and turned his burly back on his visitor , who sat wholly unmoved . 
I guess you're lying , Rogers , said Lapham , without looking round . 
Well , all that I have to ask is that you will not act hastily . 
I see you don't think I'm in earnest ! cried Lapham , facing fiercely about . 
Now go ! he said to Rogers , when the boy had closed the door after him and he turned once more to his desk . 
Rogers rose from his chair , and stood with his hat in his hand . 
He was not merely dispassionate in his attitude and expression , he was impartial . 
He wore the air of a man who was ready to return to business whenever the wayward mood of his interlocutor permitted . 
Then I understand , he said , that you will take no action in regard to the mills till I have seen the parties I speak of . 
Lapham faced about once more , and sat looking up into the visage of Rogers in silence . 
I wonder what you're up to , he said at last I should like to know . 
But don't you come here with any man of straw . 
And I'll give you just twenty four hours to prove yourself a swindler again . 
Somewhat earlier than the usual hour for closing , he appeared there with his hat on and his overcoat buttoned about him . 
Nothing had been said , but a sense of trouble subtly diffused itself through those who saw him go out . 
That evening as he sat down with his wife alone at tea , he asked , Ain't Pen coming to supper ? No , she ain't , said his wife . 
I don't know as I like the way she's going on , any too well . 
I'm afraid , if she keeps on , she'll be down sick . 
She's got deeper feelings than Irene . 
What's the matter with YOU ? she asked . 
I haven't got any appetite . 
What's the matter ? she persisted . 
Trouble's the matter bad luck and lots of it's the matter , said Lapham . 
I haven't ever hid anything from you , Persis , well you asked me , and it's too late to begin now . 
I'll tell you what kind of a fix , if you think it'll do you any good but I guess you'll be satisfied to know that it's a fix . 
How much of a one ? she asked with a look of grave , steady courage in her eyes . 
Well , I don't know as I can tell , just yet , said Lapham , avoiding this look . 
Things have been dull all the fall , but I thought they'd brisk up come winter . 
There have been a lot of failures , and some of 'em owed me , and some of 'em had me on their paper and Lapham stopped . 
And what ? prompted his wife . 
He hesitated before he added , And then Rogers . 
I'm to blame for that , said Mrs. Lapham . 
I forced you to it . 
No I was as willing to go into it as what you were , answered Lapham . 
I don't want to blame anybody . 
Mrs. Lapham had a woman's passion for fixing responsibility she could not help saying , as soon as acquitted , I warned you against him , Silas . 
I told you not to let him get in any deeper with you . 
I had to help him to try to get my money back . 
I might as well poured water into a sieve . 
Don't be afraid to speak out to me , Silas Lapham . 
If it comes to the worst , I want to know it I've got to know it . 
What did I ever care for the money ? I've . 
I know who's to blame , and I blame myself . 
It was my forcing Rogers on to you . 
It hasn't come to the worst yet , Persis , said her husband . 
But I shall have to hold up on the new house a little while , till I can see where I am . 
I shouldn't care if we had to sell it , cried his wife , in passionate self condemnation . 
I should be GLAD if we had to , as far as I'm concerned . 
I shouldn't , said Lapham . 
I know ! said his wife and she remembered ruefully how his heart was set on it . 
Well , I guess it's going to come out all right in the end . 
Or , if it ain't , he sighed , we can't help it . 
May be Pen needn't worry so much about Corey , after all , he continued , with a bitter irony new to him . 
It's an ill wind that blows nobody good . 
And there's a chance , he ended , with a still bitterer laugh , that Rogers will come to time , after all . 
I don't believe it ! exclaimed Mrs. Lapham , with a gleam of hope in her eyes . 
What chance ? One in ten million , said Lapham and her face fell again . 
He says there are some English parties after him to buy these mills . 
Well ? Well , I gave him twenty four hours to prove himself a liar . 
You don't believe there are any such parties ? Not in THIS world . 
But if there were ? Well , if there were , Persis But pshaw ! No , no ! she pleaded eagerly . 
It don't seem as if he COULD be such a villain . 
I don't want to make anything on 'em . 
But guess I shall hear from the G. L. P. first . 
And when they make their offer , I guess I'll have to accept it , whatever it is . 
I don't think they'll have a great many competitors . 
Mrs. Lapham could not give up her hope . 
Then I know he'll move heaven and earth to bring it about . 
I KNOW you won't be allowed to suffer for doing him a kindness , Silas . 
He CAN'T be so ungrateful ! Why , why SHOULD he pretend to have any such parties in view when he hasn't ? Don't you be down hearted , Si . 
You'll see that he'll be round with them to morrow . 
Lapham laughed , but she urged so many reasons for her belief in Rogers that Lapham began to rekindle his own faith a little . 
He ended by asking for a hot cup of tea and Mrs. Lapham sent the pot out and had a fresh one steeped for him . 
That brought the old times back , and he said If this had happened then , I shouldn't have cared much . 
I was young then , and I wasn't afraid of anything . 
But I noticed that after I passed fifty I began to get scared easier . 
I don't believe I could pick up , now , from a regular knock down . 
Pshaw ! YOU scared , Silas Lapham ? cried his wife proudly . 
In the middle of the night she called to him , in a voice which the darkness rendered still more deeply troubled Are you awake , Silas ? Yes I'm awake . 
Hush , hush , Persis ! he besought her . 
You'll wake Pen if you keep on that way . 
Don't cry any more ! You mustn't . 
Oh , let me cry , Silas ! It'll help me . 
I shall be all right in a minute . 
It does seem too hard , she said , when she could speak again , that you have to give up this chance when Providence had fairly raised it up for you . 
I guess it wa'n't Providence raised it up , said Lapham . 
Any rate , it's got to go . 
Most likely Rogers was lyin' , and there ain't any such parties but if there were , they couldn't have the mills from me without the whole story . 
Don't you be troubled , Persis . 
I'm going to pull through all right . 
Oh , I ain't afraid . 
I don't suppose but what there's plenty would help you , if they knew you needed it , Si . 
They would if they knew I DIDN'T need it , said Lapham sardonically . 
Did you tell Bill how you stood ? No , I couldn't bear to . 
I've been the rich one so long , that I couldn't bring myself to own up that I was in danger . 
Besides , it didn't look so ugly till to day . 
But I guess we shan't let ugly looks scare us . 
THE morning postman brought Mrs. Lapham a letter from Irene , which was chiefly significant because it made no reference whatever to the writer or her state of mind . 
By the time this letter came , Lapham had gone to his business , and the mother carried it to Penelope to talk over . 
It wouldn't make any difference as far as I was concerned , replied the girl listlessly . 
Mrs. Lapham lost her patience . 
Well , then , I'll tell you what , Penelope ! she exclaimed . 
Perhaps it'll make a difference to you if you know that your father's in REAL trouble . 
He's harassed to death , and he was awake half the night , talking about it . 
I guess Irene wouldn't mope round much , if she was here , she could not help adding . 
The girl lifted herself on her elbow . 
What's that you say about father ? she demanded eagerly . 
And I want you should get up and show that you've got some feeling for somebody in the world besides yourself . 
Oh , I'll get UP ! said the girl promptly , almost . 
Your father thinks he'll pull through all right , and I don't know but what he will . 
And stop thinking about yourself a while , and behave yourself like a sensible girl . 
Yes , yes , said the girl I will . 
You needn't be troubled about me any more . 
Before she left her room she wrote a note , and when she came down she was dressed to go out of doors and post it herself . 
The note was to Corey Do not come to see me any more till you hear from me . 
I have a reason which I cannot give you now and you must not ask what it is . 
All day she went about in a buoyant desperation , and she came down to meet her father at supper . 
Well , Persis , he said scornfully , as he sat down , we might as well saved our good resolutions till they were wanted . 
I guess those English parties have gone back on Rogers . 
Do you mean he didn't come ? He hadn't come up to half past five , said Lapham . 
Tchk ! uttered his wife . 
But I guess I shall pull through without Mr. Rogers , continued Lapham . 
A firm that I didn't think COULD weather it is still afloat , and so far forth as the danger goes of being dragged under with it , I'm all right . 
Hello , Pen ! cried her father . 
It ain't often I meet YOU nowadays . 
He put up his hand as she passed his chair , and pulled her down and kissed her . 
No , she said but I thought I'd come down to night and cheer you up a little . 
I shall not talk the sight of me will be enough . 
Mother been telling you ? Well , I WAS pretty blue last night but I guess I was more scared than hurt . 
How'd you like to go to the theatre to night ? Sellers at the Park . 
Heigh ? Well , I don't know . 
Don't you think they could get along without me there ? No couldn't work it at all , cried the Colonel . 
Unless , he added inquiringly , there's somebody coming here ? There's nobody coming , said Penelope . 
Good ! Then we'll go . 
Mother , don't you be late now . 
Oh , I shan't keep you waiting , said Mrs. Lapham . 
She had thought of telling what a cheerful letter she had got from Irene but upon the whole it seemed better not to speak of Irene at all just then . 
Well , perhaps you're right , Persis , he consented . 
I haven't seen Pen so much like herself since it happened . 
I guess there'll be enough to keep Pen going for a while yet , said the Colonel , winding up his watch . 
It was none the less winter , and none the less harassing for these fluctuations , and Lapham showed in his face and temper the effect of like fluctuations in his affairs . 
He grew thin and old , and both at home and at his office he was irascible to the point of offence . 
Lapham had now ceased to talk of his troubles , and savagely resented his wife's interference . 
It's pretty hard on you , Pen , she said . 
That makes it easier for me , returned the girl , who did not otherwise refer to her own trouble . 
In her heart she had wondered a little at the absolute obedience of Corey , who had made no sign since receiving her note . 
She would have liked to ask her father if Corey was sick she would have liked him to ask her why Corey did not come any more . 
Her mother went on I don't believe your father knows WHERE he stands . 
He works away at those papers he brings home here at night , as if he didn't half know what he was about . 
Sometimes he gave Penelope figures to work at , which he would not submit to his wife's nimbler arithmetic . 
Then she went to bed and left them sitting up till midnight , struggling with problems in which they were both weak . 
But she could see that the girl was a comfort to her father , and that his troubles were a defence and shelter to her . 
Some nights she could hear them going out together , and then she lay awake for their return from their long walk . 
When the hour or day of respite came again , the home felt it first . 
Lapham wanted to know what the news from Irene was he joined his wife in all her cheerful speculations , and tried to make her amends for his sullen reticence and irritability . 
Irene was staying on at Dubuque . 
There came a letter from her , saying that her uncle's people wanted her to spend the winter there . 
Well , let her , said Lapham . 
It'll be the best thing for her . 
Lapham himself had letters from his brother at frequent intervals . 
His brother was watching the G. L. P. , which as yet had made no offer for the mills . 
She looked wistfully at him it was on the rise from a season of deep depression with him . 
No , Si , she said I don't see how you could do that . 
One of the papers had slipped through the crevice of the lid , and lay upon the floor . 
Mrs. Lapham kept on at her sewing , but after a while she picked the paper up to lay it on the desk . 
Then she glanced at it , and saw that it was a long column of dates and figures , recording successive sums , never large ones , paid regularly to Wm . 
M. The dates covered a year , and the sum amounted at least to several hundreds . 
Mrs. Lapham laid the paper down on the desk , and then she took it up again and put it into her work basket , meaning to give it to him . 
When he came in she saw him looking absent mindedly about for something , and then going to work upon his papers , apparently without it . 
She thought she would wait till he missed it definitely , and then give him the scrap she had picked up . 
It lay in her basket , and after some days it found its way under the work in it , and she forgot it . 
He and Corey had little to do with each other . 
He saw that she was cheerfuller than she had been , and helpfuller with him and her mother . 
Now and then Lapham opened his troubled soul to her a little , letting his thought break into speech without preamble or conclusion . 
Once he said Pen , I presume you know I'm in trouble . 
We all seem to be there , said the girl . 
Yes , but there's a difference between being there by your own fault and being there by somebody else's . 
I don't call it his fault , she said . 
I call it mine , said the Colonel . 
Her thought was of her own care , and her father's wholly of his . 
She must come to his ground . 
What have you been doing wrong ? I don't know as you'd call it wrong . 
It's what people do all the time . 
But I wish I'd let stocks alone . 
It's what I always promised your mother I would do . 
But there's no use cryin' over spilt milk or watered stock , either . 
I don't think there's much use crying about anything . 
Well , I think it's all tomfoolery , the way she's going on . 
There ain't any rhyme nor reason to it . 
He stopped , and his wife waited . 
If she said the word , I could have some help from them . 
He hung his head , and would not meet his wife's eye . 
I guess you're in a pretty bad way , Si , she said pityingly , or you wouldn't have come to that . 
I'm in a hole , said Lapham , and I don't know where to turn . 
You won't let me do anything about those mills Yes , I'll let you , said his wife sadly . 
He gave a miserable cry . 
You know I can't do anything , if you do . 
O my Lord ! She had not seen him so low as that before . 
She did not know what to say . 
She was frightened , and could only ask , Has it come to the worst ? The new house has got to go , he answered evasively . 
She did not say anything . 
She knew that the work on the house had been stopped since the beginning of the year . 
Her heart was heavy for him , though she could not say so . 
They sat together at the table , where she had come to be with him at his belated meal . 
She saw that he did not eat , and she waited for him to speak again , without urging him to take anything . 
And I've sent orders to shut down at the Works , he added . 
Shut down at the Works ! she echoed with dismay . 
She could not take it in . 
The fire at the Works had never been out before since it was first kindled . 
O Silas ! What's the use ? he retorted . 
I saw it was coming a month ago . 
There are some fellows out in West Virginia that have been running the paint as hard as they could . 
They couldn't do much they used to put it on the market raw . 
Anybody can see where it's going to end . 
Besides , the market's over stocked . 
There wa'n't anything to do but to shut DOWN , and I've SHUT down . 
I don't care what becomes of the hands , cried Lapham . 
They've shared my luck now let 'em share the other thing . 
And if you're so very sorry for the hands , I wish you'd keep a little of your pity for ME . 
Don't you know what shutting down the Works means ? Yes , indeed I do , Silas , said his wife tenderly . 
That made her think of the paper in her work basket , and she decided not to make the careworn , distracted man ask her for it , after all . 
She brought it to him . 
He glanced blankly at it and then caught it from her , turning red and looking foolish . 
Where'd you get that ? You dropped it on the floor the other night , and I picked it up . 
M. ! he repeated , looking confusedly at her , and then at the paper . 
He tore the paper into small pieces , and went and dropped them into the fire . 
She was still thinking of it when he came down to breakfast , heavy eyed , tremulous , with deep seams and wrinkles in his face . 
After a silence which he did not seem inclined to break , Silas , she asked , who is 'Mrs . 
M. ? He stared at her . 
I don't know what you're talking about . 
Don't you ? she returned mockingly . 
When you do , you tell me . 
Do you want any more coffee ? No. Well , then , you can ring for Alice when you've finished . 
I've got some things to attend to . 
She rose abruptly , and left the room . 
Lapham looked after her in a dull way , and then went on with his breakfast . 
While he still sat at his coffee , she flung into the room again , and dashed some papers down beside his plate . 
Here are some more things of yours , and I'll thank you to lock them up in your desk and not litter my room with them , if you please . 
Now he saw that she was angry , and it must be with him . 
It enraged him that in such a time of trouble she should fly out at him in that way . 
He left the house without trying to speak to her . 
That day Corey came just before closing , and , knocking at Lapham's door , asked if he could speak with him a few moments . 
Yes , said Lapham , wheeling round in his swivel chair and kicking another towards Corey . 
I want to talk to you . 
I'd ought to tell you you're wasting your time here . 
I spoke the other day about your placin' yourself better , and I can help you to do it , yet . 
There ain't going to be the out come for the paint in the foreign markets that we expected , and I guess you better give it up . 
I don't wish to give it up , said the young fellow , setting his lips . 
I've as much faith in it as ever and I want to propose now what I hinted at in the first place . 
I want to put some money into the business . 
Some money ! Lapham leaned towards him , and frowned as if he had not quite understood , while he clutched the arms of his chair . 
But I think I see the way to doing something at once in Mexico , and I should like to feel that I had something more than a drummer's interest in the venture . 
The men sat looking into each other's eyes . 
Then Lapham leaned back in his chair , and rubbed his hand hard and slowly over his face . 
His features were still twisted with some strong emotion when he took it away . 
Your family know about this ? My Uncle James knows . 
He thinks it would be a good plan for you ? He thought that by this time I ought to be able to trust my own judgment . 
Do you suppose I could see your uncle at his office ? I imagine he's there . 
Well , I want to have a talk with him , one of these days . 
He sat pondering a while , and then rose , and went with Corey to his door . 
I guess I shan't change my mind about taking you into the business in that way , he said coldly . 
If there was any reason why I shouldn't at first , there's more now . 
Very well , sir , answered the young man , and went to close his desk . 
That his room , Z'rilla ? asked this woman , pointing towards Lapham's door with a hand that had not freed itself from the fringe of dirty shawl under which it had hung . 
She went forward without waiting for the answer , but before she could reach it the door opened , and Lapham stood filling its space . 
Look here , Colonel Lapham ! began the woman , in a high key of challenge . 
I want to know if this is the way you're goin' back on me and Z'rilla ? What do you want ? asked Lapham . 
Lapham bent a frown on the woman , under which she shrank back a step . 
You've taken the wrong way to get it . 
Clear out ! I WON'T clear out ! said the woman , beginning to whimper . 
Lapham spoke to the woman again . 
Do you want I should call a hack , or do you want I should call an officer ? The woman began to cry into an end of her shawl . 
I don't know what we're goin' to do . 
You're going to clear out , said Lapham . 
Call a hack , Dennis . 
If you ever come here again , I'll have you arrested . 
Mind that ! Zerrilla , I shall want you early to morrow morning . 
Yes , sir , said the girl meekly she and her mother shrank out after the porter . 
Lapham shut his door without a word . 
At lunch the next day Walker made himself amends for Corey's reticence by talking a great deal . 
Those two women and the old man . 
Dennis told me about it . 
I told him if he liked his place he'd better keep his mouth shut . 
That was very good advice , said Corey . 
Oh , all right , if you don't want to talk . 
Don't know as I should in your place , returned Walker , in the easy security he had long felt that Corey had no intention of putting on airs with him . 
But I'll tell you what the old man can't expect it of everybody . 
If he keeps this thing up much longer , it's going to be talked about . 
You can't have a woman walking into your place of business , and trying to bulldoze you before your porter , without setting your porter to thinking . 
And the last thing you want a porter to do is to think for when a porter thinks , he thinks wrong . 
I don't see why even a porter couldn't think right about that affair , replied Corey . 
I should have said she was some rather worthless person whom he'd been befriending , and that she had presumed upon his kindness . 
Is that so ? What do you think of his never letting Miss Dewey's name go on the books ? That it's another proof it's a sort of charity of his . 
That's the only way to look at it . 
Oh , I'M all right . 
Walker lighted a cigar and began to smoke , with his eyes closed to a fine straight line . 
It won't do for a book keeper to think wrong , any more than a porter , I suppose . 
But I guess you and I don't think very different about this thing . 
Not if you think as I do , replied Corey steadily and I know you would do that if you had seen the 'circus' yourself . 
A man doesn't treat people who have a disgraceful hold upon him as he treated them . 
It depends upon who he is , said Walker , taking his cigar from his mouth . 
I never said the old man was afraid of anything . 
And character , continued Corey , disdaining to touch the matter further , except in generalities , must go for something . 
If it's to be the prey of mere accident and appearance , then it goes for nothing . 
Accidents will happen in the best regulated families , said Walker , with vulgar , good humoured obtuseness that filled Corey with indignation . 
Nothing , perhaps , removed his matter of fact nature further from the commonplace than a certain generosity of instinct , which I should not be ready to say was always infallible . 
That evening it was Miss Dewey's turn to wait for speech with Lapham after the others were gone . 
He opened his door at her knock , and stood looking at her with a worried air . 
Well , what do you want , Zerrilla ? he asked , with a sort of rough kindness . 
I want to know what I'm going to do about Hen . 
Lapham passed his hand over his red and heated face . 
I don't know what I'm going to do . 
You're twice the trouble that my own family is , now . 
But I know what I'd do , mighty quick , if it wasn't for you , Zerrilla , he went on relentingly . 
He's never gone more than a year at the furthest , and you can't make it out habitual drunkenness , either , when it's just sprees . 
I'm at my wit's end . 
Oh , well , you mustn't cry around here , said Lapham soothingly . 
I know it , said Miss Dewey . 
If I could get rid of Hen , I could manage well enough with mother . 
Mr. Wemmel would marry me if I could get the divorce . 
He's said so over and over again . 
I don't know as I like that very well , said Lapham , frowning . 
I don't know as I want you should get married in any hurry again . 
I don't know as I like your going with anybody else just yet . 
Oh , you needn't be afraid but what it'll be all right . 
It'll be the best thing all round , if I can marry him . 
Well ! said Lapham impatiently I can't think about it now . 
I suppose they've cleaned everything out again ? Yes , they have , said Zerrilla there isn't a cent left . 
You're a pretty expensive lot , said Lapham . 
Well , here ! He took out his pocket book and gave her a note . 
I'll be round to night and see what can be done . 
He shut himself into his room again , and Zerrilla dried her tears , put the note into her bosom , and went her way . 
Lapham kept the porter nearly an hour later . 
The woman who sat on the other side did not rise , but began a shrill , defiant apology . 
Well , I don't suppose but what you'll think we're livin' on the fat o' the land , right straight along , all the while . 
But it's just like this . 
Well , yes , it's a bottle , said the woman , with an assumption of virtuous frankness . 
It's whisky I got to have something to rub my rheumatism with . 
You've been rubbing HIS rheumatism too , I see . 
He twisted his head in the direction of the sailor , now softly and rhythmically waving to and fro on his feet . 
He hain't had a drop to day in THIS house ! cried the woman . 
What are you doing around here ? said Lapham , turning fiercely upon him . 
You've got no business ashore . 
Didn't I , Z'rilla ? said the woman , eagerly joining in the rebuke of her late boon companion . 
The sailor mumbled , with a smile of tipsy amiability for Lapham , something about the crew being discharged . 
Yes , the woman broke in , that's always the way with these coasters . 
I tell him there'd be more money for him in the end but he can't seem to make up his mind to it . 
Well , now , look here , said Lapham . 
I don't care anything about all that . 
It's your own business , and I'm not going to meddle with it . 
I know all about that , said Lapham . 
But I'll tell you what , Mr. Dewey , I'm not going to support YOU . 
I don't see what Hen's done , said the old woman impartially . 
He hasn't done anything , and I'm going to stop it . 
He's got to get a ship , and he's got to get out of this . 
And Zerrilla needn't come back to work till he does . 
I'm done with you all . 
I guess if it hadn't been for Jim , you wouldn't been here crowin' over us . 
You mind what I say . 
I mean business this time , said Lapham , turning to the door . 
The woman rose and followed him , with her bottle in her hand . 
Lapham made no answer to the mother anxious for her child's future , and concerned for the moral questions involved . 
He halted a little , as if to speak to Lapham but Lapham turned his back abruptly upon him , and took the other direction . 
The days were going by in a monotony of adversity to him , from which he could no longer escape , even at home . 
Persis , there's something I've got to tell you . 
She stood still , as if fixed against her will , to listen . 
I guess you know something about it already , and I guess it set you against me . 
Oh , I guess not , Colonel Lapham . 
You go your way , and I go mine . 
She waited for him to speak , listening with a cold , hard smile on her face . 
I don't say it to make favour with you , because I don't want you to spare me , and I don't ask you but I got into it through Milton K. Rogers . 
Oh ! said Mrs. Lapham contemptuously . 
I always felt the way I said about it that it wa'n't any better than gambling , and I say so now . 
Then it seemed to me as if I ought to try to do something to get somewhere even . 
I began to lose , and then I began to throw good money after bad , just as I always did with everything that Rogers ever came within a mile of . 
His wife , who at first had listened with mystification , and then dawning incredulity , changing into a look of relief that was almost triumph , lapsed again into severity . 
Silas Lapham , if you was to die the next minute , is this what you started to tell me ? Why , of course it is . 
I suppose Pen gave you a hint about it . 
I dropped something to her . 
I've been feeling bad about it , Persis , a good while , but I hain't had the heart to speak of it . 
I can't expect you to say you like it . 
I've been a fool , I'll allow , and I've been something worse , if you choose to say so but that's all . 
I haven't hurt anybody but myself and you and the children . 
Mrs. Lapham rose and said , with her face from him , as she turned towards the door , It's all right , Silas . 
I shan't ever bring it up against you . 
She fled out of the room , but all that evening she was very sweet with him , and seemed to wish in all tacit ways to atone for her past unkindness . 
She made him talk of his business , and he told her of Corey's offer , and what he had done about it . 
She did not seem to care for his part in it , however at which Lapham was silently disappointed a little , for he would have liked her to praise him . 
Since Corey spoke to him , some things had happened that gave Lapham hope again . 
I'm going to tell her about it , said his wife , and she showed herself impatient to make up for the time she had lost . 
Why didn't you tell me before , Silas ? I didn't know we were on speaking terms before , said Lapham sadly . 
Yes , that's true , she admitted , with a conscious flush . 
I hope he won't think Pen's known about it all this while . 
THAT evening James Bellingham came to see Corey after dinner , and went to find him in his own room . 
I've come at the instance of Colonel Lapham , said the uncle . 
He was at my office to day , and I had a long talk with him . 
Did you know that he was in difficulties ? I fancied that he was in some sort of trouble . 
And I had the book keeper's conjectures he doesn't really know much about it . 
Well , he thinks it time on all accounts that you should know how he stands , and why he declined that proposition of yours . 
I must say he has behaved very well like a gentleman . 
It's hard to behave like a gentleman where your interest is vitally concerned . 
And Lapham doesn't strike me as a man who's in the habit of acting from the best in him always . 
Do any of us ? asked Corey . 
Not all of us , at any rate , said Bellingham . 
It must have cost him something to say no to you , for he's just in that state when he believes that this or that chance , however small , would save him . 
Is he really in such a bad way ? It's hard to tell just where he stands . 
I suspect that a hopeful temperament and fondness for round numbers have always caused him to set his figures beyond his actual worth . 
He's lost heavily by some of the recent failures , and there's been a terrible shrinkage in his values . 
I don't mean merely in the stock of paint on hand , but in a kind of competition which has become very threatening . 
You know about that West Virginian paint ? Corey nodded . 
I see , said Corey dejectedly . 
I've understood that he had put a great deal of money into his Works . 
Yes , and he estimated his mine there at a high figure . 
Of course it will be worth little or nothing if the West Virginia paint drives his out . 
He's asked me to look into his affairs with him , and I've promised to do so . 
Whether he can be tided over his difficulties remains to be seen . 
I'm afraid it will take a good deal of money to do it a great deal more than he thinks , at least . 
He believes comparatively little would do it . 
I think that anything less than a great deal would be thrown away on him . 
If it were merely a question of a certain sum even a large sum to keep him going , it might be managed but it's much more complicated . 
And , as I say , it must have been a trial to him to refuse your offer . 
This did not seem to be the way in which Bellingham had meant to conclude . 
But he said no more and Corey made him no response . 
Of course , he's done it on your account , Mrs. Lapham could not help saying . 
Then he was very silly . 
I think , if he was to repeat his offer , she would have him now , said Mrs. Lapham . 
Well , I'll let her know if he does , said the Colonel . 
I guess he won't do it to you ! she cried . 
Who else will he do it to ? he demanded . 
They perceived that they had each been talking of a different offer . 
At the end she had written , Tell Pen I don't want she should be foolish . 
There ! said Mrs. Lapham . 
I guess it's going to come out right , all round and it seemed as if even the Colonel's difficulties were past . 
When your father gets through this , Pen , she asked impulsively , what shall you do ? What have you been telling Irene about me ? Nothing much . 
What should you do ? It would be a good deal easier to say what I should do if father didn't , said the girl . 
I know you think it was nice in him to make your father that offer , urged the mother . 
It was nice , yes but it was silly , said the girl . 
Most nice things are silly , I suppose , she added . 
She went to her room and wrote a letter . 
It was very long , and very carefully written and when she read it over , she tore it into small pieces . 
She wrote another one , short and hurried , and tore that up too . 
Then she went back to her mother , in the family room , and asked to see Irene's letter , and read it over to herself . 
Yes , she seems to be having a good time , she sighed . 
I'm not so sure of that the way I should have to tell him . 
I should begin by giving him a scolding . 
Don't you ? Why ? Because you can see that he isn't one of that kind . 
He might want to please you without wanting to change you by what he did . 
He must have known that nothing would change me , at least , nothing that he could do . 
I shouldn't like him to feel that I couldn't appreciate it , even if I did think it was silly . 
Should you write to him ? I don't see why not . 
It would be too pointed . 
No , I shall just let it go . 
I wish he hadn't done it . 
Well , he has done it . 
And I've tried to write to him about it two letters one so humble and grateful that it couldn't stand up on its edge , and the other so pert and flippant . 
Mother , I wish you could have seen those two letters ! I wish I had kept them to look at if I ever got to thinking I had any sense again . 
They would take the conceit out of me . 
What's the reason he don't come here any more ? Doesn't he come ? asked Penelope in turn , as if it were something she had not noticed particularly . 
She sat silent a while . 
If he doesn't come , I suppose it's because he's offended at something I did . 
What did you do ? Nothing . 
I wrote to him a little while ago . 
I suppose it was very blunt , but I didn't believe he would be angry at it . 
But this this that he's done shows he was angry , and that he wasn't just seizing the first chance to get out of it . 
What have you done , Pen ? demanded her mother sharply . 
Oh , I don't know . 
All the mischief in the world , I suppose . 
When you first told me that father was in trouble with his business , I wrote to him not to come any more till I let him . 
I said I couldn't tell him why , and he hasn't been here since . 
I'm sure I don't know what it means . 
Her mother looked at her with angry severity . 
Well , Penelope Lapham ! For a sensible child , you ARE the greatest goose I ever saw . 
Did you think he would come here and SEE if you wouldn't let him come ? He might have written , urged the girl . 
Her mother made that despairing Tchk ! with her tongue , and fell back in her chair . 
I should have DESPISED him if he had written . 
He's acted just exactly right , and you you've acted I don't know HOW you've acted . 
It was my one chance , in this whole business , to do anything heroic , and I jumped at it . 
I expected that he would be bankrupt the next day , and that then HE would understand what I meant . 
It's easy enough to be sensible for other people . 
It's helped me to keep up before the Colonel . 
If it hadn't been for Mr. Corey's staying away , and my feeling so indignant with him for having been badly treated by me , I shouldn't have been worth anything at all . 
The tears started down her cheeks , but her mother said , Well , now , go along , and write to him . 
It don't matter what you say , much and don't be so very particular . 
Her third attempt at a letter pleased her scarcely better than the rest , but she sent it , though it seemed so blunt and awkward . 
She wrote DEAR FRIEND , I expected when I sent you that note , that you would understand , almost the next day , why I could not see you any more . 
You must know now , and you must not think that if anything happened to my father , I should wish you to help him . 
But that is no reason why I should not thank you , and I do thank you , for offering . 
It was like you , I will say that . 
Yours sincerely , PENELOPE LAPHAM . 
She posted her letter , and he sent his reply in the evening , by hand DEAREST , What I did was nothing , till you praised it . 
Everything I have and am is yours . 
You must consider that I loved you without a thought of your father's circumstances , and always shall . 
T. C. The generous words were blurred to her eyes by the tears that sprang into them . 
But she could only write in answer Please do not come I have made up my mind . 
As long as this trouble is hanging over us , I cannot see you . 
And if father is unfortunate , all is over between us . 
She brought his letter to her mother , and told her what she had written in reply . 
Her mother was thoughtful a while before she said , with a sigh , Well , I hope you've begun as you can carry out , Pen . 
Oh , I shall not have to carry out at all . 
I shall not have to do anything . 
That's one comfort the only comfort . 
She went away to her own room , and when Mrs. Lapham told her husband of the affair , he was silent at first , as she had been . 
Then he said , I don't know as I should have wanted her to done differently I don't know as she could . 
If I ever come right again , she won't have anything to feel meeching about and if I don't , I don't want she should be beholden to anybody . 
And I guess that's the way she feels . 
The Coreys in their turn sat in judgment on the fact which their son felt bound to bring to their knowledge . 
She has behaved very well , said Mrs. Corey , to whom her son had spoken . 
My dear , said her husband , with his laugh , she has behaved TOO well . 
If she had studied the whole situation with the most artful eye to its mastery , she could not possibly have behaved better . 
The house of mourning is decorously darkened to the world , but within itself it is also the house of laughing . 
Lapham's adversity had this quality in common with bereavement . 
It was not always like the adversity we figure in allegory it had its moments of being like prosperity , and if upon the whole it was continual , it was not incessant . 
You'll see , he said to his wife it's going to come out all right . 
If things turn out as I expect now , and times ever go get any better generally , I can show Corey that I appreciate his offer . 
I can offer him the partnership myself then . 
Whatever happened now , the Coreys could not have it to say that the Laphams had tried to bring any such thing about . 
Bellingham had lately suggested an assignment to Lapham , as the best way out of his difficulties . 
Lapham had not agreed with him . 
Above all , he shrank from the publicity of the assignment . 
He would make any sacrifice before it came to that . 
He determined in parting with Bellingham to make the sacrifice which he had oftenest in his mind , because it was the hardest , and to sell his new house . 
That would cause the least comment . 
There was no such rush , anyhow , he reflected bitterly there would be time to do that a month later , probably . 
Now that it had come to the point , it did not seem to him that he could part with the house . 
So much of his hope for himself and his children had gone into it that the thought of selling it made him tremulous and sick . 
He ground his teeth to keep down that lump , but the moisture in his eyes blurred the lamps , and the keen pale crimson against which it made them flicker . 
There was no such facade as that on the whole street , to his thinking . 
Above all , Lapham detected the peculiar odour of his own paint , with which the architect had been greatly interested one day , when Lapham showed it to him at the office . 
He had asked Lapham to let him try the Persis Brand in realising a little idea he had for the finish of Mrs. Lapham's room . 
If it succeeded they could tell her what it was , for a surprise . 
Lapham tried to pin it up , but failed , and stood looking out of it over the water . 
The ice had left the river , and the low tide lay smooth and red in the light of the sunset . 
I'll show you , said the officer , advancing upon him , and then stopping short as he recognised him . 
Why , Colonel Lapham ! I thought it was some tramp got in here ! Have a cigar ? said Lapham hospitably . 
Sorry there ain't another nail keg . 
The officer took the cigar . 
I've just come on , and I can't stop . 
Tryin' your chimney ? Yes , I thought I'd see how it would draw , in here . 
It seems to go first rate . 
The policeman looked about him with an eye of inspection . 
You want to get that linen window , there , mended up . 
Yes , I'll speak to the builder about that . 
It can go for one night . 
The policeman went to the window and failed to pin the linen together where Lapham had failed before . 
He looked round once more , and saying , Well , good night , went out and down the stairs . 
Lapham remained by the fire till he had smoked his cigar then he rose and stamped upon the embers that still burned with his heavy boots , and went home . 
He was very cheerful at supper . 
He told his wife that he guessed he had a sure thing of it now , and in another twenty four hours he should tell her just how . 
He said he had been there before he came home , and tried Seymour's chimney in the music room , and it worked like a charm . 
I guess I done it , Pen , was all he said . 
Isn't it perfectly magnificent ! cried a pretty girl . 
I wouldn't have missed it on any account . 
Oh , do you think he would , if I came again ? I haven't the least doubt of it . 
We don't do things by halves in Boston . 
He ought to have had a coat of his noncombustible paint on it , said another gentleman of the party . 
Penelope pulled her father away toward the first carriage she could reach of a number that had driven up . 
Here , father ! get into this . 
No , no I couldn't ride , he answered heavily , and he walked home in silence . 
She did not reproach him . 
Here was a case in which his self reproach must be sufficiently sharp without any edge from her . 
Besides , her mind was full of a terrible thought . 
O Silas , she faltered , they'll think you set it on fire to get the insurance ! Lapham was staring at a paper which he held in his hand . 
I had a builder's risk on it , but it expired last week . 
Oh , thank the merciful Lord ! cried his wife . 
Well , it's a queer way of showing it . 
He went to bed , and fell into the deep sleep which sometimes follows a great moral shock . 
It was perhaps rather a torpor than a sleep . 
LAPHAM awoke confused , and in a kind of remoteness from the loss of the night before , through which it loomed mistily . 
But before he lifted his head from the pillow , it gathered substance and weight against which it needed all his will to bear up and live . 
In that moment he wished that he had not wakened , that he might never have wakened but he rose , and faced the day and its cares . 
The morning papers brought the report of the fire , and the conjectured loss . 
They said that nothing remained of the building but the walls and Lapham , on his way to business , walked up past the smoke stained shell . 
He gathered himself up as well as he could , and went on to his office . 
He went early in the afternoon to see Bellingham , whose expressions of condolence for his loss he cut short with as much politeness as he knew how to throw into his impatience . 
Bellingham seemed at first a little dazzled with the splendid courage of his scheme it was certainly fine in its way but then he began to have his misgivings . 
I happen to know that they haven't got much money behind them , urged Lapham . 
They'll jump at an offer . 
If they can show profit on the old manufacture , and prove they can make their paint still cheaper and better hereafter , they can have all the money they want . 
And it will be very difficult for you to raise it if you're threatened by them . 
With that competition , you know what your plant at Lapham would be worth , and what the shrinkage on your manufactured stock would be . 
Better sell out to them , he concluded , if they will buy . 
There ain't money enough in this country to buy out my paint , said Lapham , buttoning up his coat in a quiver of resentment . 
Men are but grown up boys after all . 
Bellingham watched this perversely proud and obstinate child fling petulantly out of his door , and felt a sympathy for him which was as truly kind as it was helpless . 
But Lapham was beginning to see through Bellingham , as he believed . 
Bellingham was , in his way , part of that conspiracy by which Lapham's creditors were trying to drive him to the wall . 
More than ever now he was glad that he had nothing to do with that cold hearted , self conceited race , and that the favours so far were all from his side . 
He said to himself that if Penelope were engaged to Corey that very minute , he would make her break with him . 
He knew what he should do now , and he was going to do it without loss of time . 
He managed this business better than could possibly have been expected of a man in his impassioned mood . 
Lapham himself , if he had had so much , would not have hesitated to put a million dollars into their business . 
It was only a question of time , and he was on the ground first . 
He frankly proposed a union of their interests . 
He got on well with them . 
At last , they said what they would do . 
He should run the works at Lapham and manage the business in Boston , and they would run the works at Kanawha Falls and manage the business in New York . 
A year ago , six months ago , he would have laughed at the notion that it would be hard to raise the money . 
He did not go home , but spent most of the day shining round , as he would have expressed it , and trying to see if he could raise the money . 
But he found that people of whom he hoped to get it were in the conspiracy which had been formed to drive him to the wall . 
Somehow , there seemed a sense of his embarrassments abroad . 
Lapham stood in the isolation to which adversity so often seems to bring men . 
He said to himself that he had been a fool for that and he scorned himself for certain acts of scrupulosity by which he had lost money in the past . 
As he understood it , he had several days to turn about in , and he did not let one day's failure dishearten him . 
The morning after his return he had , in fact , a gleam of luck that gave him the greatest encouragement for the moment . 
A man came in to inquire about one of Rogers's wild cat patents , as Lapham called them , and ended by buying it . 
All right , said Lapham , and he could not command at once the severity for the reception of Rogers which he would have liked to use . 
What if they are not for sale ? he asked . 
You know that I've been expecting an offer from the G. L. P. I've kept watch of that . 
They haven't made you any offer , said Rogers quietly . 
I don't believe you ! cried Lapham brutally , but a wild predatory hope made his heart leap so that it seemed to turn over in his breast . 
Did you tell them about the G. L. P. ? Rogers looked compassionately at him , but he answered , with unvaried dryness , I did not think that necessary . 
And do you think that I am going to steal these men's money to help you plunder somebody in a new scheme ? answered Lapham . 
The sneer was on behalf of virtue , but it was still a sneer I suppose the money would be useful to you too , just now . 
Why ? Because I know that you have been trying to borrow . 
I expected them some weeks ago , but they disappointed me . 
They arrived on the Circassian last night they expected to have got in five days ago , but the passage was very stormy . 
Where are they ? asked Lapham , with helpless irrelevance , and feeling himself somehow drifted from his moorings by Rogers's shipping intelligence . 
I told them we would call upon them after dinner this evening they dine late . 
Oh , you did , did you ? asked Lapham , trying to drop another anchor for a fresh clutch on his underlying principles . 
Well , now , you go and tell them that I said I wouldn't come . 
Their stay is limited , remarked Rogers . 
I mentioned this evening because they were not certain they could remain over another night . 
But if to morrow would suit you better Tell 'em I shan't come at all , roared Lapham , as much in terror as defiance , for he felt his anchor dragging . 
No , you can't ! I shan't let you ! I shan't see them ! I shan't have anything to do with them . 
NOW do you understand ? I inferred from our last interview , persisted Rogers , unmoved by all this violent demonstration of Lapham's , that you wished to meet these parties . 
You told me that you would give me time to produce them and I have promised them that you would meet them I have committed myself . 
It was true that Lapham had defied Rogers to bring on his men , and had implied his willingness to negotiate with them . 
That was before he had talked the matter over with his wife , and perceived his moral responsibility in it even she had not seen this at once . 
He could not enter into this explanation with Rogers he could only say , I said I'd give you twenty four hours to prove yourself a liar , and you did it . 
I didn't say twenty four days . 
I don't see the difference , returned Rogers . 
The parties are here now , and that proves that I was acting in good faith at the time . 
There has been no change in the posture of affairs . 
You don't know now any more than you knew then that the G. L. P. is going to want the property . 
If there's any difference , it's in favour of the Road's having changed its mind . 
There was some sense in this , and Lapham felt it felt it only too eagerly , as he recognised the next instant . 
'Twan't a promise , said Lapham . 
Rogers urged his grievance calmly , almost impersonally , making his appeal to Lapham's sense of justice . 
I CAN'T go back to those parties and tell them you won't see them . 
It's no answer to make . 
They've got a right to know why you won't see them . 
Very well , then ! cried Lapham I'll come and TELL them why . 
And ask for me I've taken a room at the hotel for the present . 
I won't keep you five minutes when I get there , said Lapham but he did not come away till ten o'clock . 
It appeared to him as if the very devil was in it . 
The Englishmen treated his downright refusal to sell as a piece of bluff , and talked on as though it were merely the opening of the negotiation . 
They owned now , that a person interested with them had been out to look at the property , and that they were satisfied with the appearance of things . 
I ask nothing , and expect nothing , except the small sum which shall accrue to me after the discharge of my obligations to Colonel Lapham . 
But we're quite satisfied there will be no loss , he added savingly . 
All you have to do is to name your price , and we will do our best to meet it . 
There was nothing in the Englishman's sophistry very shocking to Lapham . 
Lapham met the Englishman's eye , and with difficulty kept himself from winking . 
Then he looked away , and tried to find out where he stood , or what he wanted to do . 
He had expected to come into that room and unmask Rogers , and have it over . 
But he had unmasked Rogers without any effect whatever , and the play had only begun . 
He had a whimsical and sarcastic sense of its being very different from the plays at the theatre . 
He remained baffled and perplexed , and the one who had not spoken hitherto remarked Of course we shan't 'aggle about a few pound , more or less . 
If Colonel Lapham's figure should be a little larger than ours , I've no doubt 'e'll not be too 'ard upon us in the end . 
Still he could not move and it seemed to him that he could not speak . 
Lapham jumped to his feet , and buttoned his overcoat about him . 
He remembered with terror the dinner at Corey's where he had disgraced and betrayed himself , and if he went into this thing at all , he was going into it sober . 
I can't stop , he said , I must be going . 
But you haven't given us an answer yet , Mr. Lapham , said the first Englishman with a successful show of dignified surprise . 
The only answer I can give you now is , NO , said Lapham . 
If you want another , you must let me have time to think it over . 
But 'ow much time ? said the other Englishman . 
We're pressed for time ourselves , and we hoped for an answer 'oped for a hanswer , he corrected himself , at once . 
That was our understandin' with Mr. Rogers . 
I can't let you know till morning , anyway , said Lapham , and he went out , as his custom often was , without any parting salutation . 
He thought Rogers might try to detain him but Rogers had remained seated when the others got to their feet , and paid no attention to his departure . 
He walked out into the night air , every pulse throbbing with the strong temptation . 
He knew very well those men would wait , and gladly wait , till the morning , and that the whole affair was in his hands . 
It made him groan in spirit to think that it was . 
If he had hoped that some chance might take the decision from him , there was no such chance , in the present or future , that he could see . 
It was for him alone to commit this rascality if it was a rascality or not . 
A carriage stood before his house , and when he let himself in with his key , he heard talking in the family room . 
So will mine , said Lapham , or the next thing to it . 
Well , then , I want you to give me this chance to get on my feet again . 
You've no right to deprive me of it it's unchristian . 
In our dealings with each other we should be guided by the Golden Rule , as I was saying to Mrs. Lapham before you came in . 
I should consider that man's family , I told Mrs. Lapham . 
They are rich people , and could bear it if it came to the worst . 
But there's no likelihood , now , that it will come to the worst you can see yourself that the Road has changed its mind about buying . 
And here am I without a cent in the world and my wife is an invalid . 
Lapham stole a troubled glance at his wife , and saw that there was no help in her . 
Probably there was a mixture of both causes in the effect which her husband felt in her , and from which he turned , girding himself anew , to Rogers . 
I have no wish to recur to the past , continued Rogers , with growing superiority . 
You have shown a proper spirit in regard to that , and you have done what you could to wipe it out . 
I should think I had , said Lapham . 
I've used up about a hundred and fifty thousand dollars trying . 
Some of my enterprises , Rogers admitted , have been unfortunate , seemingly but I have hopes that they will yet turn out well in time . 
I can't understand why you should be so mindful of others now , when you showed so little regard for me then . 
I had come to your aid at a time when you needed help , and when you got on your feet you kicked me out of the business . 
I don't complain , but that is the fact and I had to begin again , after I had supposed myself settled in life , and establish myself elsewhere . 
She turned towards the door , when Rogers said , with the obvious intention of detaining her through her curiosity But I let that pass . 
And I don't ask now that you should sell to these men . 
Mrs. Lapham paused , irresolute . 
What are you making this bother for , then ? demanded Lapham . 
What DO you want ? What I've been telling your wife here . 
I want you should sell to me . 
I don't say what I'm going to do with the property , and you will not have an iota of responsibility , whatever happens . 
Lapham was staggered , and he saw his wife's face light up with eager question . 
I want that property , continued Rogers , and I've got the money to buy it . 
She went out of the door , and left him with his tempter . 
If you think I'm going to help you whip the devil round the stump , you're mistaken in your man , Milton Rogers , said Lapham , lighting a cigar . 
As soon as I sold to you , you would sell to that other pair of rascals . 
I smelt 'em out in half a minute . 
They are Christian gentlemen , said Rogers . 
But I don't purpose defending them and I don't purpose telling you what I shall or shall not do with the property when it is in my hands again . 
The question is , Will you sell , and , if so , what is your figure ? You have got nothing whatever to do with it after you've sold . 
Any lawyer would have told him the same . 
He could not help admiring Rogers for his ingenuity , and every selfish interest of his nature joined with many obvious duties to urge him to consent . 
He did not see why he should refuse . 
There was no longer a reason . 
He was standing out alone for nothing , any one else would say . 
But at last he said , Well ? Well , answered Lapham , you can't expect me to give you an answer to night , any more than before . 
You know that what you've said now hasn't changed the thing a bit . 
The Lord knows , I want to be rid of the property fast enough . 
Why do you expect to know any better by morning ? You're wasting time for nothing ! cried Rogers , in his disappointment . 
Why are you so particular ? When you drove me out of the business you were not so very particular . 
It was certainly ridiculous for man who had once so selfishly consulted his own interests to be stickling now about the rights of others . 
I guess nothing's going to happen overnight , he answered sullenly . 
Anyway , I shan't say what I shall do till morning . 
What time can I see you in the morning ? Half past nine . 
Rogers buttoned his coat , and went out of the room without another word . 
Lapham followed him to close the street door after him . 
His wife called down to him from above as he approached the room again , Well ? I've told him I'd let him know in the morning . 
Want I should come down and talk with you ? No , answered Lapham , in the proud bitterness which his isolation brought , you couldn't do any good . 
But when the first light whitened the window , the words of the Scripture came into her mind And there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day . 
And he said , Let me go , for the day breaketh . 
And he said , I will not let thee go , except thou bless me . 
He arrived rather later than usual at his office , and he found his letters already on his table . 
But he went mechanically through the verification of his prophetic fear , which was also his sole hope , and then sat looking blankly at it . 
Rogers came promptly at the appointed time , and Lapham handed him the letter . 
He must have taken it all in at a glance , and seen the impossibility of negotiating any further now , even with victims so pliant and willing as those Englishmen . 
You've ruined me ! Rogers broke out . 
I haven't a cent left in the world ! God help my poor wife ! He went out , and Lapham remained staring at the door which closed upon him . 
This was his reward for standing firm for right and justice to his own destruction to feel like a thief and a murderer . 
He spent the time in a desperate endeavour to raise the money , but he had not raised the half of it when the banks closed . 
With shame in his heart he went to Bellingham , from whom he had parted so haughtily , and laid his plan before him . 
He could not bring himself to ask Bellingham's help , but he told him what he proposed to do . 
Bellingham pointed out that the whole thing was an experiment , and that the price asked was enormous , unless a great success were morally certain . 
They can't be so peremptory as that with you . 
They must give you time to look at what they want to sell . 
If it turns out what you hope , then I'll see what can be done . 
But look into it thoroughly . 
Well ! cried Lapham , helplessly submitting . 
He took out his watch , and saw that he had forty minutes to catch the four o'clock train . 
The early spring day was raw and cold . 
What's up ? asked Lapham , stopping a moment . 
Seems to be something the matter with the steam , she answered , with the air of unmerited wrong habitual with so many pretty women who have to work for a living . 
Well , take your writer into my room . 
There's a fire in the stove there , said Lapham , passing out . 
Half an hour later his wife came into the outer office . 
The suffering which Lapham must inflict on him if he decided against him had been more to her apprehension than the harm he might do if he decided for him . 
Then she became aware with intolerable disappointment that her husband was not there . 
Instead , a very pretty girl sat at his desk , operating a typewriter . 
She seemed quite at home , and she paid Mrs. Lapham the scant attention which such young women often bestow upon people not personally interesting to them . 
When will Colonel Lapham be in , do you suppose ? she sharply asked of the girl . 
I couldn't say exactly , replied the girl , without looking round . 
Has he been out long ? I don't know as I noticed , said the girl , looking up at the clock , without looking at Mrs. Lapham . 
She went on working her machine . 
Well , I can't wait any longer , said the wife abruptly . 
When Colonel Lapham comes in , you please tell him Mrs. Lapham wants to see him . 
The girl started to her feet and turned toward Mrs. Lapham with a red and startled face , which she did not lift to confront her . 
Yes yes I will , she faltered . 
The wife went home with a sense of defeat mixed with an irritation about this girl which she could not quell or account for . 
That was another curse of their prosperity . 
Well , she was glad the prosperity was going it had never been happiness . 
After this she was going to know everything as she used . 
But again the curse was on her there was nothing to do and the looks of that girl kept coming back to her vacancy , her disoccupation . 
A note for me ? she said , staring at the unknown , and somehow artificial looking , handwriting of the superscription . 
Then she opened it and read Ask your husband about his lady copying clerk . 
A Friend and Well wisher , who signed the note , gave no other name . 
Mrs. Lapham sat helpless with it in her hand . 
If she had known where to find her husband in New York , she would have followed him she waited his return in an ecstasy of impatience . 
In the morning he came back , looking spent and haggard . 
Girl in my office ? Yes ! Who is she ? What is she doing there ? Why , what have you heard about her ? Never you mind what I've heard . 
Who is she ? IS IT MRS . 
For a while he stood bewildered , and could not have answered if he would , and then he would not . 
He merely asked , Have I ever accused you of anything wrong , Persis ? You no need to ! she answered furiously , placing herself against the closed door . 
Did you ever know me to do anything out of the way ? That isn't what I asked you . 
Well , I guess you may find out about that girl yourself . 
Get away from the door . 
I won't get away from the door . 
She felt herself set lightly aside , and her husband opened the door and went out . 
I WILL find out about her , she screamed after him . 
I'll find out , and I'll disgrace you . 
I'll teach you how to treat me The air blackened round her she reeled to the sofa and then she found herself waking from a faint . 
She did not know how long she had lain there , she did not care . 
In a moment her madness came whirling back upon her . 
She rushed up to his room it was empty the closet doors stood ajar and the drawers were open he must have packed a bag hastily and fled . 
She went out and wandered crazily up and down till she found a hack . 
A thousand things thronged into her mind to support her in her evil will . 
She remembered how glad and proud that man had been to marry her , and how everybody said she was marrying beneath her when she took him . 
She recalled his confusion , his guilty looks . 
Then she went straight to Lapham's room , with outrage in her heart . 
The two women confronted each other . 
Why , the good land ! cried Mrs. Lapham , ain't you Zerrilla Millon ? I I'm married , faltered the girl My name's Dewey , now . 
You're Jim Millon's daughter , anyway . 
How long have you been here ? I haven't been here regularly I've been here off and on ever since last May . 
Where's your mother ? She's here in Boston . 
The Colonel , continued Zerrilla , he's been helping us , and he's got me a type writer , so that I can help myself a little . 
Mother's doing pretty well now and when Hen isn't around we can get along . 
I saw it was you , when you came in the other day , she went on but you didn't seem to know me . 
Mrs. Lapham would not let her know that she was ignorant of the fact attributed to her knowledge . 
She remained listening to Zerrilla , and piecing out the whole history of her presence there from the facts of the past , and the traits of her husband's character . 
Mrs. Lapham had no mercy on Moll Millon , and she had quarrelled often enough with her husband for befriending her . 
He had done ten times as much for them now as he had any need to , and she had made him give her his solemn word that he would do no more . 
Her husband had deceived her , yet her heart was no longer hot against him , but rather tenderly grateful that his deceit was in this sort , and not in that other . 
All cruel and shameful doubt of him went out of it . 
Can I be of any use to you , Mrs. Lapham ? The Colonel was here just before you came in , on his way to the train . 
I didn't know I thought perhaps I could catch him here . 
I wish you would let some one go with me to get a carriage , she begged feebly . 
I'll go with you myself , said the young fellow , ignoring the strangeness in her manner . 
He gave the driver her direction , and stood looking a little anxiously at her . 
I thank you I am all right now , she said , and he bade the man drive on . 
When she reached home she went to bed , spent with the tumult of her emotions and sick with shame and self reproach . 
If he never came , it would be no more than she deserved but she sent for Penelope , and tried to give herself hopes of escape from this just penalty . 
What were you talking about so loud , down in the parlour , she asked her mother , just before he came up Is there any new trouble ? No it was nothing . 
Once I thought you were laughing . 
She went about , closing the curtains on account of her mother's headache , and doing awkwardly and imperfectly the things that Irene would have done so skilfully for her comfort . 
The day wore away to nightfall , and then Mrs. Lapham said she MUST know . 
Very well , she said , then , scarcely above a whisper , and she presently laughed huskily . 
Mr. Corey seems fated to come in , somewhere . 
I guess it's a Providence , mother . 
This office brought him in person , an hour later , to tell Penelope that the Colonel was to be at Lapham that night and next day . 
And mother wasn't very well , and I thought she wasn't looking well when she was at the office to day . 
And so I thought I would come rather than send , Corey explained in his turn . 
Oh , thank you ! If there is anything I can do telegraph Colonel Lapham , or anything ? Oh no , thank you mother's better now . 
She merely wanted to be sure where he was . 
He did not offer to go , upon this conclusion of his business , but hoped he was not keeping her from her mother . 
He was honest in saying he did not know it was so late but he made no pretence of being sorry , and she took the blame to herself . 
I oughtn't to have let you stay , she said . 
But with father gone , and all that trouble hanging over us She was allowing him to hold her hand a moment at the door , to which she had followed him . 
I'm so glad you could let me ! he said , and I want to ask you now when I may come again . 
Why , Irene ! shrieked the girl . 
Irene entered with the hackman , who had driven her unheard to the door , following with her small bags , and kissed her sister with resolute composure . 
That's all , she said to the hackman . 
I gave my checks to the expressman , she explained to Penelope . 
Irene turned upon him , and gave him her hand . 
How do you do , Mr. Corey ? she said , with a courage that sent a thrill of admiring gratitude through him . 
Where's mamma , Pen ? Papa gone to bed ? Penelope faltered out some reply embodying the facts , and Irene ran up the stairs to her mother's room . 
Mrs. Lapham started up in bed at her apparition . 
Did you get my despatch ? I telegraphed from Springfield . 
But it don't matter , now . 
Did you see him ? asked her mother . 
It's the first time he's been here since she told him he mustn't come . 
Mrs. Corey turned a little pale , but shut her lips tight and mourned in silence whatever hopes she had lately permitted herself . 
She answered with Roman fortitude Of course , if there's anything between you and Miss Lapham , your family ought to recognise it . 
We can't do so too soon . 
It will seem as if we were ashamed if we don't . 
Yes , you are quite right , mother , said the young man gratefully , and I feel how kind and good you are . 
But I know you will like her when you come to know her . 
It's been very hard for her every way about her sister , and she's made a great sacrifice for me . 
Mrs. Corey , whose thoughts cannot always be reported , said she was sure of it , and that all she desired was her son's happiness . 
She's been very unwilling to consider it an engagement on that account , and on account of Colonel Lapham's difficulties . 
I should like to have you go , now , for that very reason . 
I don't know just how serious the trouble is but it isn't a time when we can seem indifferent . 
She answered , with what composure she could , I will take your sisters , and then she made some natural inquiries about Lapham's affairs . 
Oh , I hope it will come out all right , Corey said , with a lover's vague smile , and left her . 
He laughed , with a delicate impersonal appreciation of the predicament . 
Well , Anna , you can't say but if you ever were guilty of supposing yourself porcelain , this is a just punishment of your arrogance . 
We never cared for the money , said Mrs. Corey . 
No and now we can't seem to care for the loss of it . 
That would be still worse . 
Either horn of the dilemma gores us . 
Well , we still have the comfort we had in the beginning we can't help ourselves and we should only make bad worse by trying . 
Unless we can look to Tom's inamorata herself for help . 
Mrs. Corey shook her head so gloomily that her husband broke off with another laugh . 
I have had my way of expressing my sense of it , and you yours , but we have always been of the same mind about it . 
We would both have preferred to have Tom marry in his own set the Laphams are about the last set we could have wished him to marry into . 
They ARE uncultivated people , and so far as I have seen them , I'm not able to believe that poverty will improve them . 
Let us hope for the best , and let us behave as well as we know how . 
I'm sure YOU will behave well , and I shall try . 
I'm going with you to call on Miss Lapham . 
This is a thing that can't be done by halves ! He cut his orange in the Neapolitan manner , and ate it in quarters . 
IRENE did not leave her mother in any illusion concerning her cousin Will and herself . 
She said that he was as good as engaged to a girl out there , and that he had never dreamt of her . 
It had been a life and death struggle with her she had conquered , but she had also necessarily lost much . 
Perhaps what she had lost was not worth keeping but at any rate she had lost it . 
With her sister she ignored the past as completely as it was possible to do and she treated both Corey and Penelope with the justice which their innocence of voluntary offence deserved . 
It was a difficult part , and she kept away from them as much as she could . 
He was very polite and tender with her at first , and ended by making a joke with her , to which Penelope responded , in her sort . 
He said he hoped they parted friends , if not quite acquaintances and she said she hoped they would be able to recognise each other if they ever met again . 
That is what I meant by her pertness , said Mrs Corey , when they were driving away . 
Was it very pert ? he queried . 
The child had to answer something . 
I would much rather she had answered nothing , under the circumstances , said Mrs. Corey . 
However ! she added hopelessly . 
Oh , she's a merry little grig , you can see that , and there's no harm in her . 
I can understand a little why a formal fellow like Tom should be taken with her . 
She hasn't the least reverence , I suppose , and joked with the young man from the beginning . 
You must remember , Anna , that there was a time when you liked my joking . 
It was a very different thing ! But that drawing room , pursued Corey really , I don't see how Tom stands that . 
No , no , my dear , he argued merely imaginative . 
And I can even imagine that little thing finding Tom just the least bit slow , at times , if it were not for his goodness . 
Tom is so kind that I'm convinced he sometimes feels your joke in his heart when his head isn't quite clear about it . 
Well , we will not despond , my dear . 
Your father seemed actually to like her , Mrs. Corey reported to her daughters , very much shaken in her own prejudices by the fact . 
If the girl were not so offensive to his fastidiousness , there might be some hope that she was not so offensive as Mrs. Corey had thought . 
I wonder how she will strike YOU , she concluded , looking from one daughter to another , as if trying to decide which of them would like Penelope least . 
At any other time , either incident would have been an anxiety and care for Mrs. Lapham which she would have found hard to bear but now she almost welcomed them . 
Yes , she done right , said Lapham . 
It was time for her to come , he added gently . 
Then he was silent again , and his wife told him of Corey's having been there , and of his father's and mother's calling . 
I guess Pen's concluded to make it up , she said . 
Well , we'll see about that , said Lapham and now she could no longer forbear to ask him about his affairs . 
I don't know as I've got any right to know anything about it , she said humbly , with remote allusion to her treatment of him . 
But I can't help wanting to know . 
How ARE things going , Si ? Bad , he said , pushing his plate from him , and tilting himself back in his chair . 
Or they ain't going at all . 
What do you mean , Si ? she persisted , tenderly . 
I've got to the end of my string . 
To morrow I shall call a meeting of my creditors , and put myself in their hands . 
If there's enough left to satisfy them , I'm satisfied . 
His voice dropped in his throat he swallowed once or twice , and then did not speak . 
Do you mean that it's all over with you ? she asked fearfully . 
He bowed his big head , wrinkled and grizzled and after awhile he said , It's hard to realise it but I guess there ain't any doubt about it . 
His money would have enabled Lapham to close with the West Virginians . 
The devil was in it , right straight along , said Lapham . 
All I had to do was to keep quiet about that other company . 
It was Rogers and his property right over again . 
He liked the look of things , and he wanted to go into the business , and he had the money plenty it would have saved me with those West Virginia folks . 
But I had to tell him how I stood . 
I had to tell him all about it , and what I wanted to do . 
He began to back water in a minute , and the next morning I saw that it was up with him . 
He's gone back to New York . 
I've lost my last chance . 
Now all I've got to do is to save the pieces . 
Will will everything go ? she asked . 
I can't tell , yet . 
But they shall have a chance at everything every dollar , every cent . 
I'm sorry for you , Persis and the girls . 
His wife wished to praise him , but she did not know how so she offered him a little reproach , in which alone she touched the cause of her behaviour at parting . 
I did intend to tell you at first , but then I put I put it off . 
I thought you'd come round some day , and find it out for yourself . 
I'm punished , said his wife , for not taking enough interest in your business to even come near it . 
If we're brought back to the day of small things , I guess it's a lesson for me , Silas . 
Oh , I don't know about the lesson , he said wearily . 
That night she showed him the anonymous scrawl which had kindled her fury against him . 
He turned it listlessly over in his hand . 
I guess I know who it's from , he said , giving it back to her , and I guess you do too , Persis . 
But how how could he Mebbe he believed it , said Lapham , with patience that cut her more keenly than any reproach . 
Bellingham made some futile inquiries about his negotiations with the West Virginians , and Lapham told him they had come to nothing . 
He spoke of the New York man , and the chance that he might have sold out half his business to him . 
But , of course , I had to let him know how it was about those fellows . 
Of course , said Bellingham , not seeing till afterwards the full significance of Lapham's action . 
Lapham said nothing about Rogers and the Englishmen . 
All those who were concerned in his affairs said he behaved well , and even more than well , when it came to the worst . 
When she remembered that night when Rogers came , she hated the place . 
Irene accepted her release from the house eagerly , and was glad to go before and prepare for the family at Lapham . 
Penelope was always ashamed of her engagement there it must seem better somewhere else and she was glad to go too . 
No one but Lapham in fact , felt the pang of parting in all its keenness . 
For his nerves there was no mechanical sense of coming back this was as much the end of his proud , prosperous life as death itself could have been . 
That was impossible , not only in his stiffened and weakened forces , but in the very nature of things . 
He was going back , by grace of the man whom he owed money , to make what he could out of the one chance which his successful rivals had left him . 
The West Virginia people confessed that they could not produce those fine grades , and they willingly left the field to him . 
He was more broken than he knew by his failure it did not kill , as it often does , but it weakened the spring once so strong and elastic . 
He lapsed more and more into acquiescence with his changed condition , and that bragging note of his was rarely sounded . 
He worked faithfully enough in his enterprise , but sometimes he failed to seize occasions that in his younger days he would have turned to golden account . 
His wife saw in him a daunted look that made her heart ache for him . 
Before he went he came up to Vermont , and urged Penelope to go with him . 
They were all young men together , and Corey , who had put his money into the company , had a proprietary interest in the success which they were eager to achieve . 
It don't go backward , and it don't go forward . 
Mother , I believe I shall take the bit in my teeth if anybody will put it there ! It isn't the same as it was , suggested her mother . 
You can see that Irene's all over it . 
That's no credit to me , said Penelope . 
I ought to be just as much ashamed as ever . 
You no need ever to be ashamed . 
That's true , too , said the girl . 
And I can sneak off to Mexico with a good conscience if I could make up my mind to it . 
Well , if I could be SENTENCED to be married , or somebody would up and forbid the banns ! I don't know what to do about it . 
Her mother left her to carry her hesitation back to Corey , and she said now , they had better go all over it and try to reason it out . 
I don't say it is wrong , she proceeded , rather aimlessly , but I can't make it seem right . 
I don't know whether I can make you understand , but the idea of being happy , when everybody else is so miserable , is more than I can endure . 
Then perhaps that's your share of the common suffering , suggested Corey , smiling . 
Oh , you know it isn't ! You know it's nothing . 
Oh ! One of the reasons is what I told you once before , that as long as father is in trouble I can't let you think of me . 
Now that he's lost everything ? She bent her eyes inquiringly upon him , as if for the effect of this argument . 
I don't think that's a very good reason , he answered seriously , but smiling still . 
Do you believe me when I tell you that I love you ? Why , I suppose I must , she said , dropping her eyes . 
No , I couldn't think such a thing of you . 
I I don't know what I meant . 
She stopped , and cast a helpless glance at him . 
He came to her aid . 
I understand why you shouldn't wish me to suffer by your father's misfortunes . 
Yes , that was it and there is too great a difference every way . 
We ought to look at that again . 
You mustn't pretend that you don't know it , for that wouldn't be true . 
Your mother will never like me , and perhaps perhaps I shall not like her . 
Well , said Corey , a little daunted , you won't have to marry my family . 
Ah , that isn't the point ! I know it , he admitted . 
I won't pretend that I don't see what you mean but I'm sure that all the differences would disappear when you came to know my family better . 
There can't be anything hopelessly different in you all , and if there were it wouldn't be any difference to me . 
Do you think it would be pleasant to have you on my side against your mother ? There won't be any sides . 
Tell me just what it is you're afraid of . 
Afraid ? Thinking of , then . 
It isn't anything they say or do , she explained , with her eyes intent on his . 
I couldn't be natural with them , and if I can't be natural with people , I'm disagreeable . 
Can you be natural with me ? Oh , I'm not afraid of you . 
That was the trouble , from the beginning . 
Well , then , that's all that's necessary . 
And it never was the least trouble to me ! It made me untrue to Irene . 
You mustn't say that ! You were always true to her . 
She cared for you first . 
Well , but I never cared for her at all ! he besought her . 
That was nobody's fault , and I can't let you make it yours . 
We must understand each other , said Penelope , rising from her seat to prevent an advance he was making from his I want you to realise the whole affair . 
I should always despise myself . 
I ought to give you up for all these reasons . 
She looked at him intently , and there was a tentative quality in her affirmations . 
Is this your answer ? he said . 
If I asked too much of you , I was wrong . 
He held out his hand , and she put hers in it . 
You think I'm capricious and fickle ! she said . 
I can't help it I don't know myself . 
I can't keep to one thing for half a day at a time . 
But it's right for us to part yes , it must be . 
It must be , she repeated and I shall try to remember that . 
You do think so , don't you ? she pleaded , clinging to his hand . 
I am not at all what they would like your family I felt that . 
I am little , and black , and homely , and they don't understand my way of talking , and now that we've lost everything No , I'm not fit . 
You're quite right , not to have patience with me any longer . 
I can't even give you up ! I shall never dare look any one in the face again . 
Go , go ! But take me with you ! I tried to do without you ! I gave it a fair trial , and it was a dead failure . 
She was spared from the first advance toward this by an accident or a misunderstanding . 
I'm not going to have him thinking that I'm dying for a man that never cared for me . 
It's insulting , and I'm not going to stand it . 
Now , you just send for him ! Oh , I will , 'Rene , gasped Penelope . 
And then she added , shamed out of her prevarication by Irene's haughty magnanimity , I have . 
Their hearts were far more with her . 
Again and again Mrs. Lapham said she did not see how she could go through it . 
I can't make it seem right , she said . 
It IS right , steadily answered the Colonel . 
But it don't SEEM so . 
It would be easy to point out traits in Penelope's character which finally reconciled all her husband's family and endeared her to them . 
These things continually happen in novels and the Coreys , as they had always promised themselves to do , made the best , and not the worst of Tom's marriage . 
They were people who could value Lapham's behaviour as Tom reported it to them . 
It's all right if it makes it more comfortable for Pen , he said to his wife . 
But the differences remained uneffaced , if not uneffaceable , between the Coreys and Tom Corey's wife . 
If he had only married the Colonel ! subtly suggested Nanny Corey . 
Lily Corey made a little , ineffectual sketch of her , which she put by with other studies to finish up , sometime , and found her rather picturesque in some ways . 
Nanny got on with her better than the rest , and saw possibilities for her in the country to which she was going . 
I'm glad she's going to Mexico . 
At that distance we can correspond . 
Her mother sighed , and said bravely that she was sure they all got on very pleasantly as it was , and that she was perfectly satisfied if Tom was . 
There was , in fact , much truth in what she said of their harmony with Penelope . 
Whether Penelope , on her side , found it more difficult to harmonise , I cannot say . 
She had much more of the harmonising to do , since they were four to one but then she had gone through so much greater trials before . 
When the door of their carriage closed and it drove off with her and her husband to the station , she fetched a long sigh . 
What is it ? asked Corey , who ought to have known better . 
I don't think I shall feel strange amongst the Mexicans now . 
He looked at her with a puzzled smile , which grew a little graver , and then he put his arm round her and drew her closer to him . 
This made her cry on his shoulder . 
I only meant that I should have you all to myself . 
There is no proof that she meant more , but it is certain that our manners and customs go for more in life than our qualities . 
The price that we pay for civilisation is the fine yet impassable differentiation of these . 
Perhaps we pay too much but it will not be possible to persuade those who have the difference in their favour that this is so . 
They may be right and at any rate , the blank misgiving , the recurring sense of disappointment to which the young people's departure left the Coreys is to be considered . 
That was the end of their son and brother for them they felt that and they were not mean or unamiable people . 
He remained three years away . 
Some changes took place in that time . 
One of these was the purchase by the Kanawha Falls Company of the mines and works at Lapham . 
His son in law , he said , was pushing it in Mexico and Central America an idea that they had originally had in common . 
Well , young blood was what was wanted in a thing of that kind . 
But one thing he could say he had been no man's enemy but his own every dollar , every cent had gone to pay his debts he had come out with clean hands . 
There were times when Mrs. Lapham had as great pride in the clean handedness with which Lapham had come out as he had himself , but her satisfaction was not so constant . 
He humbly admitted it all , and left her to think of Rogers herself . 
She did not fail to do so , and the thought did not fail to restore him to her tenderness again . 
I must say , I can't help feeling a sort of contempt for her sister . 
Oh , but you must not ! cried Sewell . 
That is wrong , cruelly wrong . 
I'm sure that's out of your novel reading , my dear , and not out of your heart . 
Come ! It grieves me to hear you say such a thing as that . 
Oh , I dare say this pretty thing has got over it how much character she has got ! and I suppose she'll see somebody else . 
Sewell had to content himself with this partial concession . 
It is certain that at the end of five years after the disappointment which she met so bravely , she was still unmarried . 
But she was even then still very young , and her life at Lapham had been varied by visits to the West . 
Sewell was intensely interested in the moral spectacle which Lapham presented under his changed conditions . 
He was rather shabby and slovenly in dress , and he had fallen unkempt , after the country fashion , as to his hair and beard and boots . 
The house was plain , and was furnished with the simpler moveables out of the house in Nankeen Square . 
There were certainly all the necessaries , but no luxuries unless the statues of Prayer and Faith might be so considered . 
He went back to his first connection with Rogers , and he put before Sewell hypothetically his own conclusions in regard to the matter . 
It was just like starting a row of bricks . 
I tried to catch up and stop 'em from going , but they all tumbled , one after another . 
It wa'n't in the nature of things that they could be stopped till the last brick went . 
I don't talk much with my wife , any more about it but I should like to know how it strikes you . 
We can trace the operation of evil in the physical world , replied the minister , but I'm more and more puzzled about it in the moral world . 
There its course is often so very obscure and often it seems to involve , so far as we can see , no penalty whatever . 
And in your own case , as I understand , you don't admit you don't feel sure that you ever actually did wrong this man Well , no I don't . 
Do you think so ? I think that there may be truth in what I suggest . 
