The Silverado Squatters by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
uk The Silverado Squatters THE scene of this little book is on a high mountain . 
There are , indeed , many higher there are many of a nobler outline . 
It is no place of pilgrimage for the summary globe trotter but to one who lives upon its sides , Mount Saint Helena soon becomes a centre of interest . 
It is the Mont Blanc of one section of the Californian Coast Range , none of its near neighbours rising to one half its altitude . 
It looks down on much green , intricate country . 
It feeds in the spring time many splashing brooks . 
Three counties , Napa County , Lake County , and Sonoma County , march across its cliffy shoulders . 
Its naked peak stands nearly four thousand five hundred feet above the sea its sides are fringed with forest and the soil , where it is bare , glows warm with cinnabar . 
Life in its shadow goes rustically forward . 
Bucks , and bears , and rattle snakes , and former mining operations , are the staple of men's talk . 
Agriculture has only begun to mount above the valley . 
Thence he takes rail once more to mount the long green strath of Napa Valley . 
In all the contractions and expansions of that inland sea , the Bay of San Francisco , there can be few drearier scenes than the Vallejo Ferry . 
Bald shores and a low , bald islet inclose the sea through the narrows the tide bubbles , muddy like a river . 
South Vallejo is typical of many Californian towns . 
Yet there was a tall building beside the pier , labelled the STAR FLOUR MILLS and sea going , full rigged ships lay close along shore , waiting for their cargo . 
Soon these would be plunging round the Horn , soon the flour from the STAR FLOUR MILLS would be landed on the wharves of Liverpool . 
The Frisby House , for that was the name of the hotel , was a place of fallen fortunes , like the town . 
It was now given up to labourers , and partly ruinous . 
In our bedroom , the stove would not burn , though it would smoke and while one window would not open , the other would not shut . 
All about that dreary inn frogs sang their ungainly chorus . 
Early the next morning we mounted the hill along a wooden footway , bridging one marish spot after another . 
Here and there , as we ascended , we passed a house embowered in white roses . 
More of the bay became apparent , and soon the blue peak of Tamalpais rose above the green level of the island opposite . 
It told us we were still but a little way from the city of the Golden Gates , already , at that hour , beginning to awake among the sand hills . 
It called to us over the waters as with the voice of a bird . 
Its stately head , blue as a sapphire on the paler azure of the sky , spoke to us of wider outlooks and the bright Pacific . 
For Tamalpais stands sentry , like a lighthouse , over the Golden Gates , between the bay and the open ocean , and looks down indifferently on both . 
For some way beyond Vallejo the railway led us through bald green pastures . 
A great variety of oaks stood , now severally , now in a becoming grove , among the fields and vineyards . 
This pleasant Napa Valley is , at its north end , blockaded by our mountain . 
Thus , Mount Saint Helena is not only a summit , but a frontier and , up to the time of writing , it has stayed the progress of the iron horse . 
The railroad and the highway come up the valley about parallel to one another . 
But , in the meanwhile , all the life and most of the houses of Calistoga are concentrated upon that street between the railway station and the road . 
I never heard it called by any name , but I will hazard a guess that it is either Washington or Broadway . 
and here certainly is one of the hotels , Cheeseborough's , whence the daring Foss , a man dear to legend , starts his horses for the Geysers . 
It must be remembered that we are here in a land of stage drivers and highwaymen a land , in that sense , like England a hundred years ago . 
The highway robber road agent , he is quaintly called is still busy in these parts . 
The fame of Vasquez is still young . 
Only a few years go , the Lakeport stage was robbed a mile or two from Calistoga . 
The grass was springing for the first time , nourished upon their blood , when I arrived in Calistoga . 
I am reminded of another highwayman of that same year . 
He had been unwell , so ran his humorous defence , and the doctor told him to take something , so he took the express box . 
California boasts her famous stage drivers , and among the famous Foss is not forgotten . 
Along the unfenced , abominable mountain roads , he launches his team with small regard to human life or the doctrine of probabilities . 
Flinching travellers , who behold themselves coasting eternity at every corner , look with natural admiration at their driver's huge , impassive , fleshy countenance . 
He has the very face for the driver in Sam Weller's anecdote , who upset the election party at the required point . 
Wonderful tales are current of his readiness and skill . 
This I relate as I heard it , without guarantee . 
I only saw Foss once , though , strange as it may sound , I have twice talked with him . 
He lives out of Calistoga , at a ranche called Fossville . 
One evening , after he was long gone home , I dropped into Cheeseborough's , and was asked if I should like to speak with Mr. Foss . 
Supposing that the interview was impossible , and that I was merely called upon to subscribe the general sentiment , I boldly answered Yes . 
Foss rapidly and somewhat plaintively brought the conversation to an end and he returned to his night's grog at Fossville , while I strolled forth again on Calistoga high street . 
So it goes in these young countries telephones , and telegraphs , and newspapers , and advertisements running far ahead among the Indians and the grizzly bears . 
Alone , on the other side of the railway , stands the Springs Hotel , with its attendant cottages . 
Some of the cottages are let to residents , and these are wreathed in flowers . 
The whole neighbourhood of Mount Saint Helena is full of sulphur and of boiling springs . 
The Geysers are famous they were the great health resort of the Indians before the coming of the whites . 
At one end of the hotel enclosure are the springs from which it takes its name , hot enough to scald a child seriously while I was there . 
At the other end , the tenant of a cottage sank a well , and there also the water came up boiling . 
It keeps this end of the valley as warm as a toast . 
She over towered them by two thirds of her own stature . 
She excelled them by the boldness of her profile . 
Her great bald summit , clear of trees and pasture , a cairn of quartz and cinnabar , rejected kinship with the dark and shaggy wilderness of lesser hill tops . 
CHAPTER II THE PETRIFIED FOREST WE drove off from the Springs Hotel about three in the afternoon . 
The sun warmed me to the heart . 
A broad , cool wind streamed pauselessly down the valley , laden with perfume . 
Up at the top stood Mount Saint Helena , a bulk of mountain , bare atop , with tree fringed spurs , and radiating warmth . 
Once we saw it framed in a grove of tall and exquisitely graceful white oaks , in line and colour a finished composition . 
But we had the society of these bright streams dazzlingly clear , as is their wont , splashing from the wheels in diamonds , and striking a lively coolness through the sunshine . 
At length , in a lonely dell , we came on a huge wooden gate with a sign upon it like an inn . 
Proprietor C. Evans , ran the legend . 
Within , on a knoll of sward , was the house of the proprietor , and another smaller house hard by to serve as a museum , where photographs and petrifactions were retailed . 
It was a pure little isle of touristry among these solitary hills . 
The proprietor was a brave old white faced Swede . 
Long , useless years of seafaring had thus discharged him at the end , penniless and sick . 
Without doubt he had tried his luck at the diggings , and got no good from that without doubt he had loved the bottle , and lived the life of Jack ashore . 
And the very sight of his ranche had done him good . 
It was the handsomest spot in the Californy mountains . 
Isn't it handsome , now ? he said . 
Every penny he makes goes into that ranche to make it handsomer . 
Who first found the forest ? asked my wife . 
The first ? I was that man , said he . 
And now he had a theory of his own , which I did not quite grasp , except that the trees had not grewed there . 
When I mentioned I was from Scotland , My old country , he said my old country with a smiling look and a tone of real affection in his voice . 
I was mightily surprised , for he was obviously Scandinavian , and begged him to explain . 
It seemed he had learned his English and done nearly all his sailing in Scotch ships . 
Out of Glasgow , said he , or Greenock but that's all the same they all hail from Glasgow . 
Here was a man , at least , who was a Swede , a Scot , and an American , acknowledging some kind allegiance to three lands . 
Mr. Wallace's Scoto Circassian will not fail to come before the reader . 
I have myself met and spoken with a Fifeshire German , whose combination of abominable accents struck me dumb . 
But , indeed , I think we all belong to many countries . 
And perhaps this habit of much travel , and the engendering of scattered friendships , may prepare the euthanasia of ancient nations . 
It is very curious , of course , and ancient enough , if that were all . 
Doubtless , the heart of the geologist beats quicker at the sight but , for my part , I was mightily unmoved . 
Sight seeing is the art of disappointment . 
There's nothing under heaven so blue , That's fairly worth the travelling to . 
CHAPTER III NAPA WINE I WAS interested in Californian wine . 
Chateau Neuf is dead , and I have never tasted it Hermitage a hermitage indeed from all life's sorrows lies expiring by the river . 
It is not Pan only Bacchus , too , is dead . 
A nice point in human history falls to be decided by Californian and Australian wines . 
Wine in California is still in the experimental stage and when you taste a vintage , grave economical questions are involved . 
The beginning of vine planting is like the beginning of mining for the precious metals the wine grower also Prospects . 
One corner of land after another is tried with one kind of grape after another . 
This is a failure that is better a third best . 
So , bit by bit , they grope about for their Clos Vougeot and Lafite . 
But there they bide their hour , awaiting their Columbus and nature nurses and prepares them . 
The smack of Californian earth shall linger on the palate of your grandson . 
Meanwhile the wine is merely a good wine the best that I have tasted better than a Beaujolais , and not unlike . 
But the trade is poor it lives from hand to mouth , putting its all into experiments , and forced to sell its vintages . 
To find one properly matured , and bearing its own name , is to be fortune's favourite . 
Bearing its own name , I say , and dwell upon the innuendo . 
You want to know why California wine is not drunk in the States ? a San Francisco wine merchant said to me , after he had shown me through his premises . 
Well , here's the reason . 
But it was strange that all looked unfamiliar . 
Chateau X ? said I. I never heard of that . 
I dare say not , said he . 
I had been reading one of X 's novels . 
They were all castles in Spain ! But that sure enough is the reason why California wine is not drunk in the States . 
Napa valley has been long a seat of the wine growing industry . 
A Californian vineyard , one of man's outposts in the wilderness , has features of its own . 
We visited two of them , Mr. Schram's and Mr. M'Eckron's , sharing the same glen . 
Some way down the valley below Calistoga , we turned sharply to the south and plunged into the thick of the wood . 
The last is no great inconvenience at home but here in California it is a matter of some moment . 
The two houses , with their vineyards , stood each in a green niche of its own in this steep and narrow forest dell . 
Though they were so near , there was already a good difference in level and Mr. M'Eckron's head must be a long way under the feet of Mr. Schram . 
He had but recently began his vines were young , his business young also but I thought he had the look of the man who succeeds . 
Much of it goes to London most , I think and Mr. Schram has a great notion of the English taste . 
In this wild spot , I did not feel the sacredness of ancient cultivation . 
Here , also , earth's cream was being skimmed and garnered and the London customers can taste , such as it is , the tang of the earth in this green valley . 
But these are but experiments . 
Men move eternally , still chasing Fortune and , fortune found , still wander . 
Scotland is indefinable it has no unity except upon the map . 
When I am at home , I feel a man from Glasgow to be something like a rival , a man from Barra to be more than half a foreigner . 
One is Norse , one Celtic , and another Saxon . 
It is not community of tongue . 
We have it not among ourselves and we have it almost to perfection , with English , or Irish , or American . 
It is no tie of faith , for we detest each other's errors . 
And yet somewhere , deep down in the heart of each one of us , something yearns for the old land , and the old kindly people . 
Of all mysteries of the human heart , this is perhaps the most inscrutable . 
And though I think I would rather die elsewhere , yet in my heart of hearts I long to be buried among good Scots clods . 
I will say it fairly , it grows on me with every year there are no stars so lovely as Edinburgh street lamps . 
When I forget thee , auld Reekie , may my right hand forget its cunning ! The happiest lot on earth is to be born a Scotchman . 
You must pay for it in many ways , as for all other advantages on earth . 
An Englishman may meet an Englishman to morrow , upon Chimborazo , and neither of them care but when the Scotch wine grower told me of Mons Meg , it was like magic . 
And , Highland and Lowland , all our hearts are Scotch . 
Only a few days after I had seen M'Eckron , a message reached me in my cottage . 
It was a Scotchman who had come down a long way from the hills to market . 
He had heard there was a countryman in Calistoga , and came round to the hotel to see him . 
And there was yet another . 
He had just such a face as I have seen a dozen times behind the plate . 
Hullo , sir ! I cried . 
Where are you going ? He turned round without a quiver . 
You're a Scotchman , sir ? he said gravely . 
So am I I come from Aberdeen . 
This is my card , presenting me with a piece of pasteboard which he had raked out of some gutter in the period of the rains . 
I was just examining this palm , he continued , indicating the misbegotten plant before our door , which is the largest spAcimen I have yet observed in Califoarnia . 
There were four or five larger within sight . 
A month or two after this encounter of mine , there came a Scot to Sacramento perhaps from Aberdeen . 
Anyway , there never was any one more Scotch in this wide world . 
He could sing and dance , and drink , I presume and he played the pipes with vigour and success . 
This is a very sad story . 
After he had borrowed money from every one , he and his pipes suddenly disappeared from Sacramento , and when I last heard , the police were looking for him . 
I cannot say how this story amused me , when I felt myself so thoroughly ripe on both sides to be duped in the same way . 
It is at least a curious thing , to conclude , that the races which wander widest , Jews and Scotch , should be the most clannish in the world . 
But perhaps these two are cause and effect For ye were strangers in the land of Egypt . 
PART II WITH THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL CHAPTER I. TO INTRODUCE MR . 
KELMAR ONE thing in this new country very particularly strikes a stranger , and that is the number of antiquities . 
Already there have been many cycles of population succeeding each other , and passing away and leaving behind them relics . 
These , standing on into changed times , strike the imagination as forcibly as any pyramid or feudal tower . 
I suppose there are , in no country in the world , so many deserted towns as here in California . 
The whole neighbourhood of Mount Saint Helena , now so quiet and sylvan , was once alive with mining camps and villages . 
Here there would be two thousand souls under canvas there one thousand or fifteen hundred ensconced , as if for ever , in a town of comfortable houses . 
It was with an eye on one of these deserted places , Pine Flat , on the Geysers road , that we had come first to Calistoga . 
There is something singularly enticing in the idea of going , rent free , into a ready made house . 
Fresh meat must be had on an occasion . 
It is really very disheartening how we depend on other people in this life . 
Mihi est propositum , as you may see by the motto , id quod regibus and behold it cannot be carried out , unless I find a neighbour rolling in cattle . 
Now , my principal adviser in this matter was one whom I will call Kelmar . 
He also had something of the expression of a Scotch country elder , who , by some peculiarity , should chance to be a Hebrew . 
He had a projecting under lip , with which he continually smiled , or rather smirked . 
Mrs. Kelmar was a singularly kind woman and the oldest son had quite a dark and romantic bearing , and might be heard on summer evenings playing sentimental airs on the violin . 
I had no idea , at the time I made his acquaintance , what an important person Kelmar was . 
But the Jew store keepers of California , profiting at once by the needs and habits of the people , have made themselves in too many cases the tyrants of the rural population . 
Credit is offered , is pressed on the new customer , and when once he is beyond his depth , the tune changes , and he is from thenceforth a white slave . 
These are continually paying him , but are never suffered to get out of debt . 
For some reason , Kelmar always shook his head at the mention of Pine Flat , and for some days I thought he disapproved of the whole scheme and was proportionately sad . 
One fine morning , however , he met me , wreathed in smiles . 
He had found the very place for me Silverado , another old mining town , right up the mountain . 
Rufe had been consumptive , and was now quite a strong man , ain't it ? In short , the place and all its accompaniments seemed made for us on purpose . 
He took me to his back door , whence , as from every point of Calistoga , Mount Saint Helena could be seen towering in the air . 
There , in the nick , just where the eastern foothills joined the mountain , and she herself began to rise above the zone of forest there was Silverado . 
The name had already pleased me the high station pleased me still more . 
I began to inquire with some eagerness . 
It was but a little while ago that Silverado was a great place . 
The mine a silver mine , of course had promised great things . 
And she said , Yes extremely well . 
Now there was no one living in the town but Rufe the hunter and once more I heard Rufe's praises by the yard , and this time sung in chorus . 
I could not help perceiving at the time that there was something underneath that no unmixed desire to have us comfortably settled had inspired the Kelmars with this flow of words . 
But I was impatient to be gone , to be about my kingly project and when we were offered seats in Kelmar's waggon , I accepted on the spot . 
The plan of their next Sunday's outing took them , by good fortune , over the border into Lake County . 
They would carry us so far , drop us at the Toll House , present us to the Hansons , and call for us again on Monday morning early . 
These last were highly ornamental in the sheen of their bright tin , but I could invent no reason for their presence . 
Our carriageful reckoned up , as near as we could get at it , some three hundred years to the six of us . 
Four of the six , besides , were Hebrews . 
But I never , in all my life , was conscious of so strong an atmosphere of holiday . 
No word was spoken but of pleasure and even when we drove in silence , nods and smiles went round the party like refreshments . 
The sun shone out of a cloudless sky . 
Close at the zenith rode the belated moon , still clearly visible , and , along one margin , even bright . 
It was clear in our teeth from the first , and for all the windings of the road it managed to keep clear in our teeth until the end . 
The road mounts the near shoulder of Mount Saint Helena , bound northward into Lake County . 
Vineyards and deep meadows , islanded and framed with thicket , gave place more and more as we ascended to woods of oak and madrona , dotted with enormous pines . 
It was these pines , as they shot above the lower wood , that produced that pencilling of single trees I had so often remarked from the valley . 
Thence , looking up and from however far , each fir stands separate against the sky no bigger than an eyelash and all together lend a quaint , fringed aspect to the hills . 
As Mount Saint Helena among her foothills , so these dark giants out top their fellow vegetables . 
Alas ! if they had left the redwoods , the pines , in turn , would have been dwarfed . 
But the redwoods , fallen from their high estate , are serving as family bedsteads , or yet more humbly as field fences , along all Napa Valley . 
A rough smack of resin was in the air , and a crystal mountain purity . 
It came pouring over these green slopes by the oceanful . 
The woods sang aloud , and gave largely of their healthful breath . 
Gladness seemed to inhabit these upper zones , and we had left indifference behind us in the valley . 
I to the hills lift mine eyes ! There are days in a life when thus to climb out of the lowlands , seems like scaling heaven . 
As we continued to ascend , the wind fell upon us with increasing strength . 
But now we were hard by the summit . 
At the highest point a trail strikes up the main hill to the leftward and that leads to Silverado . 
A hundred yards beyond , and in a kind of elbow of the glen , stands the Toll House Hotel . 
The pines go right up overhead a little more and the stream might have played , like a fire hose , on the Toll House roof . 
In front the ground drops as sharply as it rises behind . 
There is just room for the road and a sort of promontory of croquet ground , and then you can lean over the edge and look deep below you through the wood . 
I said croquet GROUND , not GREEN for the surface was of brown , beaten earth . 
The toll bar itself was the only other note of originality a long beam , turning on a post , and kept slightly horizontal by a counterweight of stones . 
Regularly about sundown this rude barrier was swung , like a derrick , across the road and made fast , I think , to a tree upon the farther side . 
On our arrival there followed a gay scene in the bar . 
Corwin , plainly aghast , resisted gallantly , and for that bout victory crowned his arms . 
At last we set forth for Silverado on foot . 
Let us attach them to the verandah by a wisp of straw rope , such as would not have held a person's hat on that blustering day . 
And with all these protestations of hurry , they proved irresponsible like children . 
Kelmar himself , shrewd old Russian Jew , with a smirk that seemed just to have concluded a bargain to its satisfaction , intrusted himself and us devoutly to that boy . 
Yet the boy was patently fallacious and for that matter a most unsympathetic urchin , raised apparently on gingerbread . 
He was bent on his own pleasure , nothing else and Kelmar followed him to his ruin , with the same shrewd smirk . 
For two hours we looked for houses and for two hours they followed us , smelling trees , picking flowers , foisting false botany on the unwary . 
Had we taken five , with that vile lad to head them off on idle divagations , for five they would have smiled and stumbled through the woods . 
However , we came forth at length , and as by accident , upon a lawn , sparse planted like an orchard , but with forest instead of fruit trees . 
That was the site of Silverado mining town . 
A piece of ground was levelled up , where Kelmar's store had been and facing that we saw Rufe Hanson's house , still bearing on its front the legend SILVERADO HOTEL . 
Not another sign of habitation . 
It was now a sylvan solitude , and the silence was unbroken but by the great , vague voice of the wind . 
Some days before our visit , a grizzly bear had been sporting round the Hansons' chicken house . 
Mrs. Hanson was at home alone , we found . 
Rufe had been out after a bar , had risen late , and was now gone , it did not clearly appear whither . 
Perhaps he had had wind of Kelmar's coming , and was now ensconced among the underwood , or watching us from the shoulder of the mountain . 
We , hearing there were no houses to be had , were for immediately giving up all hopes of Silverado . 
But this , somehow , was not to Kelmar's fancy . 
Mrs. Hanson had been , from the first , flustered , subdued , and a little pale but from this proposition she recoiled with haggard indignation . 
So did we , who would have preferred , in a manner of speaking , death . 
But Kelmar was not to be put by . 
Thither we went the Jews , who should already have been miles into Lake County , still cheerily accompanying us . 
For about a furlong we followed a good road alone , the hillside through the forest , until suddenly that road widened out and came abruptly to an end . 
A rusty iron chute on wooden legs came flying , like a monstrous gargoyle , across the parapet . 
It was down this that they poured the precious ore and below here the carts stood to wait their lading , and carry it mill ward down the mountain . 
The whole canyon was so entirely blocked , as if by some rude guerilla fortification , that we could only mount by lengths of wooden ladder , fixed in the hillside . 
Fanny and I dashed at the house . 
Not a window sash remained . 
The door of the lower room was smashed , and one panel hung in splinters . 
It was my first care to cut away that poison oak , Fanny standing by at a respectful distance . 
That was our first improvement by which we took possession . 
The whole building was overhung by a bold , lion like , red rock . 
Poison oak , sweet bay trees , calcanthus , brush , and chaparral , grew freely but sparsely all about it . 
In front , in the strong sunshine , the platform lay overstrewn with busy litter , as though the labours of the mine might begin again to morrow in the morning . 
In that quiet place the still , far away tinkle of the water drops was loudly audible . 
Close by , another shaft led edgeways up into the superincumbent shoulder of the hill . 
Here also a rugged , horizontal tunnel ran straight into the unsunned bowels of the rock . 
This secure angle in the mountain's flank was , even on this wild day , as still as my lady's chamber . 
But in the tunnel a cold , wet draught tempestuously blew . 
Nor have I ever known that place otherwise than cold and windy . 
Such was our fist prospect of Juan Silverado . 
Here , mountain and house and the old tools of industry were all alike rusty and downfalling . 
One way and another , now the die was cast . 
Silverado be it ! After we had got back to the Toll House , the Jews were not long of striking forward . 
But I observed that one of the Hanson lads came down , before their departure , and returned with a ship's kettle . 
Happy Hansons ! Nor was it until after Kelmar was gone , if I remember rightly , that Rufe put in an appearance to arrange the details of our installation . 
My mind was entirely preoccupied by the noise . 
I hearkened to it by the hour , gapingly hearkened , and let my cigarette go out . 
It was a laughable thought to us , what had become of our cheerful , wandering Hebrews . 
We could not suppose they had reached a destination . 
The meanest boy could lead them miles out of their way to see a gopher hole . 
THE RETURN NEXT morning we were up by half past five , according to agreement , and it was ten by the clock before our Jew boys returned to pick us up . 
Kelmar , Mrs. Kelmar , and Abramina , all smiling from ear to ear , and full of tales of the hospitality they had found on the other side . 
It had not gone unrewarded for I observed with interest that the ship's kettles , all but one , had been placed . 
Three Lake County families , at least , endowed for life with a ship's kettle . 
Come , this was no misspent Sunday . 
There was , indeed , a chink of money in their talk . 
They particularly commanded people who were well to do . 
The fine , good humour of all three seemed to declare they had attained their end . 
Yet there was the other side to it and the recipients of kettles perhaps cared greatly . 
No sooner had they returned , than the scene of yesterday began again . 
I had to devote myself . 
I stood under the shadow of that tree for , I suppose , hard upon an hour , and had not the heart to be angry . 
Once some one remembered me , and brought me out half a tumblerful of the playful , innocuous American cocktail . 
I love these sweet , fiery pangs , but I will not court them . 
The bulk of the time I spent in repeating as much French poetry as I could remember to the horses , who seemed to enjoy it hugely . 
There is no foreign land it is the traveller only that is foreign , and now and again , by a flash of recollection , lights up the contrasts of the earth . 
But while I was thus wandering in my fancy , great feats had been transacted in the bar . 
Corwin the bold had fallen , Kelmar was again crowned with laurels , and the last of the ship's kettles had changed hands . 
Alas ! and not a mile down the grade there stands a ranche in a sunny vineyard , and here we must all dismount again and enter . 
The ladies each narrated the story of her marriage , our two Hebrews with the prettiest combination of sentiment and financial bathos . 
Abramina , specially , endeared herself with every word . 
She was as simple , natural , and engaging as a kid that should have been brought up to the business of a money changer . 
One touch was so resplendently Hebraic that I cannot pass it over . 
This had tickled Abramina hugely , but I think it tickled me fully more . 
And the first thing I did , added Mrs. Guele , was to fall downstairs . 
At length we got out of the house , and some of us into the trap , when judgment of Heaven ! here came Mr. Guele from his vineyard . 
We were a pallid couple but still the Jews were smiling . 
At length all doubt was quieted , when one of the kettle holders confessed . 
Stopping his trap in the moonlight , a little way out of Calistoga , he told me , in so many words , that he dare not show face therewith an empty pocket . 
You see , I don't mind if it was only five dollars , Mr. Stevens , he said , but I must give Mr. Kelmar SOMETHING . 
Even now , when the whole tyranny is plain to me , I cannot find it in my heart to be as angry as perhaps I should be with the Hebrew tyrant . 
Kelmar , if he was unconscious of the beam in his own eye , was at least silent in the matter of his brother's mote . 
THE ACT OF SQUATTING THERE were four of us squatters myself and my wife , the King and Queen of Silverado Sam , the Crown Prince and Chuchu , the Grand Duke . 
Chuchu , a setter crossed with spaniel , was the most unsuited for a rough life . 
He had been nurtured tenderly in the society of ladies his heart was large and soft he regarded the sofa cushion as a bed rook necessary of existence . 
It may seem hard to say it of a dog , but Chuchu was a tame cat . 
Bags and boxes and a second hand stove were to follow close upon our heels by Hanson's team . 
It was a beautiful still day the sky was one field of azure . 
Not a leaf moved , not a speck appeared in heaven . 
Through a chink we could look far down into the interior , and see sunbeams floating in the dust and striking on tier after tier of silent , rusty machinery . 
It cost six thousand dollars , twelve hundred English sovereigns and now , here it stands deserted , like the temple of a forgotten religion , the busy millers toiling somewhere else . 
Silverado platform filled the whole width of the canyon . 
Above , as I have said , this was a wild , red , stony gully in the mountains but below it was a wooded dingle . 
And through this , I was told , there had gone a path between the mine and the Toll House our natural north west passage to civilization . 
I found and followed it , clearing my way as I went through fallen branches and dead trees . 
It went straight down that steep canyon , till it brought you out abruptly over the roofs of the hotel . 
There was nowhere any break in the descent . 
It almost seemed as if , were you to drop a stone down the old iron chute at our platform , it would never rest until it hopped upon the Toll House shingles . 
Signs were not wanting of the ancient greatness of Silverado . 
The footpath was well marked , and had been well trodden in the old clays by thirsty miners . 
It was a promising spot for the imagination . 
No boy could have left it unexplored . 
The stream thenceforward stole along the bottom of the dingle , and made , for that dry land , a pleasant warbling in the leaves . 
The two stages had gone by when I got down , and the Toll House stood , dozing in sun and dust and silence , like a place enchanted . 
My mission was after hay for bedding , and that I was readily promised . 
But when I mentioned that we were waiting for Rufe , the people shook their heads . 
Rufe was not a regular man any way , it seemed and if he got playing poker Well , poker was too many for Rufe . 
The lower room had been the assayer's office . 
The floor was thick with DEBRIS part human , from the former occupants part natural , sifted in by mountain winds . 
Here is one , verbatim and if any one can calculate the scale of charges , he has my envious admiration . 
Calistoga Mine , May rd , . 
John Stanley To S. Chapman , Cr . 
To board from April st , to April May lst , to rd . 
What's this ? said he . 
I have learnt since that it is a substance not unlike tallow , and is made up in rolls for all the world like tallow candles . 
Fanny , to add to our happiness , told us a story of a gentleman who had camped one night , like ourselves , by a deserted mine . 
He was a handy , thrifty fellow , and looked right and left for plunder , but all he could lay his hands on was a can of oil . 
After dark he had to see to the horses with a lantern and not to miss an opportunity , filled up his lamp from the oil can . 
Thus equipped , he set forth into the forest . 
A little while after , his friends heard a loud explosion the mountain echoes bellowed , and then all was still . 
On examination , the can proved to contain oil , with the trifling addition of nitro glycerine but no research disclosed a trace of either man or lantern . 
It was a pretty sight , after this anecdote , to see us sweeping out the giant powder . 
It seemed never to be far enough away . 
And , after all , it was only some rock pounded for assay . 
So much for the lower room . 
We scraped some of the rougher dirt off the floor , and left it . 
To that upper room we now proceeded . 
There was the roof , with a hole in it through which the sun now shot an arrow . 
Without a broom , without hay or bedding , we could but look about us with a beginning of despair . 
The one bright arrow of day , in that gaunt and shattered barrack , made the rest look dirtier and darker , and the sight drove us at last into the open . 
Not a bird , not a beast , not a reptile . 
There was no noise in that part of the world , save when we passed beside the staging , and heard the water musically falling in the shaft . 
We wandered to and fro . 
We searched among that drift of lumber wood and iron , nails and rails , and sleepers and the wheels of tracks . 
We gazed up the cleft into the bosom of the mountain . 
We sat by the margin of the dump and saw , far below us , the green treetops standing still in the clear air . 
Beautiful perfumes , breaths of bay , resin , and nutmeg , came to us more often and grew sweeter and sharper as the afternoon declined . 
But still there was no word of Hanson . 
Night began early in our cleft . 
There was no stove , of course , and no hearth in our lodging , so we betook ourselves to the blacksmith's forge across the platform . 
It was a low , brown cottage , planted close against the hill , and overhung by the foliage and peeling boughs of a madrona thicket . 
Within it was full of dead leaves and mountain dust , and rubbish from the mine . 
But we soon had a good fire brightly blazing , and sat close about it on impromptu seats . 
It was between seven and eight before Hanson arrived , with a waggonful of our effects and two of his wife's relatives to lend him a hand . 
The elder showed surprising strength . 
With so strong a helper , the business was speedily transacted . 
Soon the assayer's office was thronged with our belongings , piled higgledy piggledy , and upside down , about the floor . 
There were our boxes , indeed , but my wife had left her keys in Calistoga . 
There was the stove , but , alas ! our carriers had forgot the chimney , and lost one of the plates along the road . 
The Silverado problem was scarce solved . 
Rufe himself was grave and good natured over his share of blame he even , if I remember right , expressed regret . 
But his crew , to my astonishment and anger , grinned from ear to ear , and laughed aloud at our distress . 
They thought it real funny about the stove pipe they had forgotten real funny that they should have lost a plate . 
As for hay , the whole party refused to bring us any till they should have supped . 
But about nine , as a particular favour , we should have some hay . 
So they took their departure , leaving me still staring , and we resigned ourselves to wait for their return . 
The fire in the forge had been suffered to go out , and we were one and all too weary to kindle another . 
We dined , or , not to take that word in vain , we ate after a fashion , in the nightmare disorder of the assayer's office , perched among boxes . 
A single candle lighted us . 
Talk ceased nobody moved but the unhappy Chuchu , still in quest of sofa cushions , who tumbled complainingly among the trunks . 
It required a certain happiness of disposition to look forward hopefully , from so dismal a beginning , across the brief hours of night , to the warm shining of to morrow's sun . 
But the hay arrived at last , and we turned , with our last spark of courage , to the bedroom . 
And the two lowest bunks next to this we roughly filled with hay for that night's use . 
At first the silence of the night was utter . 
Then a high wind began in the distance among the tree tops , and for hours continued to grow higher . 
THE HUNTER'S FAMILY THERE is quite a large race or class of people in America , for whom we scarcely seem to have a parallel in England . 
Whence they came is a moot point . 
They are widely scattered , however , and easily recognized . 
Hunting is their most congenial business , or , if the occasion offers , a little amateur detection . 
Rufe himself combined two of the qualifications , for he was both a hunter and an amateur detective . 
Russel , a drunken Scotch carpenter , was even an acquaintance of his own , and he expressed much grave commiseration for his fate . 
In all that he said and did , Rufe was grave . 
I never saw him hurried . 
He took an interest in education , was an active member of the local school board , and when I was there , he had recently lost the schoolhouse key . 
His waggon was broken , but it never seemed to occur to him to mend it . 
Like all truly idle people , he had an artistic eye . 
With all this , he was a perfect , unoffending gentleman in word and act . 
Take his clay pipe from him , and he was fit for any society but that of fools . 
Quiet as he was , there burned a deep , permanent excitement in his dark blue eyes and when this grave man smiled , it was like sunshine in a shady place . 
was more commonplace than her lord . 
and with a large sun bonnet shading her valued complexion , made , I assure you , a very agreeable figure . 
But she was on the surface , what there was of her , out spoken and loud spoken . 
These visits , in our forest state , had quite the air of an event , and turned our red canyon into a salon . 
There they kept house , with sundry horses and fowls , and a family of sons , Daniel Webster , and I think George Washington , among the number . 
Nor did they want visitors . 
They were all cheerfully at sea about their names in that generation . 
And this is surely the more notable where the names are all so strange , and even the family names appear to have been coined . 
But still times change and their next descendants , the George Washingtons and Daniel Websters , will at least be clear upon the point . 
And anyway , and however his name should be spelt , this Irvine Lovelands was the most unmitigated Caliban I ever knew . 
The way that he set about cutting wood was characteristic . 
We were at that moment patching up and unpacking in the kitchen . 
Down he sat on one side , and down sat his sister on the other . 
Both were chewing pine tree gum , and he , to my annoyance , accompanied that simple pleasure with profuse expectoration . 
She rattled away , talking up hill and down dale , laughing , tossing her head , showing her brilliant teeth . 
He looked on in silence , now spitting heavily on the floor , now putting his head back and uttering a loud , discordant , joyless laugh . 
But it was plain he was in high spirits , thoroughly enjoying his visit and he laughed frankly whenever we failed to accomplish what we were about . 
This was scarcely helpful it was even , to amateur carpenters , embarrassing but it lasted until we knocked off work and began to get dinner . 
Then Mrs. Hanson remembered she should have been gone an hour ago and the pair retired , and the lady's laughter died away among the nutmegs down the path . 
He prided himself on his intelligence asked us if we knew the school ma'am . 
HE didn't think much of her , anyway . 
He had tried her , he had . 
He had put a question to her . 
She don't know nothing , he opined . 
He told us how a friend of his kept a school with a revolver , and chuckled mightily over that his friend could teach school , he could . 
All the time he kept chewing gum and spitting . 
He would stand a while looking down and then he would toss back his shock of hair , and laugh hoarsely , and spit , and bring forward a new subject . 
A man , he told us , who bore a grudge against him , had poisoned his dog . 
That was a low thing for a man to do now , wasn't it ? It wasn't like a man , that , nohow . 
But I got even with him I pisoned HIS dog . 
His clumsy utterance , his rude embarrassed manner , set a fresh value on the stupidity of his remarks . 
I do not think I ever appreciated the meaning of two words until I knew Irvine the verb , loaf , and the noun , oaf between them , they complete his portrait . 
Above all things , he was delighted with himself . 
His self esteem was , indeed , the one joint in his harness . 
He could be got to work , and even kept at work , by flattery . 
His physical strength was wonderful and to have a woman stand by and admire his achievements , warmed his heart like sunshine . 
Yet he was as cowardly as he was powerful , and felt no shame in owning to the weakness . 
Yet the strangest part of the whole matter was perhaps this , that Irvine was as beautiful as a statue . 
His features were , in themselves , perfect it was only his cloudy , uncouth , and coarse expression that disfigured them . 
So much strength residing in so spare a frame was proof sufficient of the accuracy of his shape . 
He must have been built somewhat after the pattern of Jack Sheppard but the famous housebreaker , we may be certain , was no lout . 
Irvine , in the same case , would have sat down and spat , and grumbled curses . 
He had the soul of a fat sheep , but , regarded as an artist's model , the exterior of a Greek God . 
It was only by an effort of abstraction , and after many days , that you discovered what he was . 
Anybody could cut wood and , besides , my wife was tired of supervising him , and had other things to attend to . 
He rose at once , and said if that was the way he was going to be spoke to , he reckoned he would quit . 
And , no one interposing , he departed . 
So far , so good . 
But we had no firewood . 
The next afternoon , I strolled down to Rufe's and consulted him on the subject . 
Rufe announced there was nobody in the neighbourhood but Irvine who could do a day's work for anybody . 
Irvine , thereupon , refused to have any more to do with my service he wouldn't work no more for a man as had spoke to him's I had done . 
The promise , I am bound to say , was kept . 
The leading spirit of the family was , I am inclined to fancy , Mrs. Hanson . 
Her social brilliancy somewhat dazzled the others , and she had more of the small change of sense . 
It was she who faced Kelmar , for instance and perhaps , if she had been alone , Kelmar would have had no rule within her doors . 
Sanity itself is a kind of convention . 
Even his own profession , hunting , was dear to him mainly as a sort of play even that he would have neglected , had it not appealed to his imagination . 
The pictorial side of his daily business was never forgotten . 
There was no trace in Irvine of this woodland poetry . 
He did not care for hunting , nor yet for buckskin suits . 
He had never observed scenery . 
The world , as it appeared to him , was almost obliterated by his own great grinning figure in the foreground Caliban Malvolio . 
In towns or the busier country sides , he is roughly reminded of other men's existence and if he learns no more , he learns at least to fear contempt . 
THE SEA FOGS A CHANGE in the colour of the light usually called me in the morning . 
If I were sleeping heavily , it was the bold blue that struck me awake if more lightly , then I would come to myself in that earlier and fairier fight . 
One Sunday morning , about five , the first brightness called me . 
I rose and turned to the east , not for my devotions , but for air . 
The night had been very still . 
The sun was still concealed below the opposite hilltops , though it was shining already , not twenty feet above my head , on our own mountain slope . 
But the scene , beyond a few near features , was entirely changed . 
Napa valley was gone gone were all the lower slopes and woody foothills of the range and in their place , not a thousand feet below me , rolled a great level ocean . 
It was as though I had gone to bed the night before , safe in a nook of inland mountains , and had awakened in a bay upon the coast . 
Far away were hilltops like little islands . 
Nearer , a smoky surf beat about the foot of precipices and poured into all the coves of these rough mountains . 
The colour of that fog ocean was a thing never to be forgotten . 
For an instant , among the Hebrides and just about sundown , I have seen something like it on the sea itself . 
But the white was not so opaline nor was there , what surprisingly increased the effect , that breathless , crystal stillness over all . 
As I continued to sit upon the dump , I began to observe that this sea was not so level as at first sight it appeared to be . 
It reappeared in a little , with its pines , but this time as an islet , and only to be swallowed up once more and then for good . 
It was to flee these poisonous fogs that I had left the seaboard , and climbed so high among the mountains . 
And now , behold , here came the fog to besiege me in my chosen altitudes , and yet came so beautifully that my first thought was of welcome . 
The sun had now gotten much higher , and through all the gaps of the hills it cast long bars of gold across that white ocean . 
Then , with a long cry , she disappeared again towards Lake County and the clearer air . 
At length it seemed to me as if the flood were beginning to subside . 
I judged all danger of the fog was over . 
This was not Noah's flood it was but a morning spring , and would now drift out seaward whence it came . 
So , mightily relieved , and a good deal exhilarated by the sight , I went into the house to light the fire . 
I suppose it was nearly seven when I once more mounted the platform to look abroad . 
Half an hour later , the fog had surmounted all the ridge on the opposite side of the gap , though a shoulder of the mountain still warded it out of our canyon . 
Napa valley and its bounding hills were now utterly blotted out . 
The fog , sunny white in the sunshine , was pouring over into Lake County in a huge , ragged cataract , tossing treetops appearing and disappearing in the spray . 
The air struck with a little chill , and set me coughing . 
It smelt strong of the fog , like the smell of a washing house , but with a shrewd tang of the sea salt . 
As it was , the interest of the scene entirely occupied our minds . 
The imagination loves to trifle with what is not . 
Had this been indeed the deluge , I should have felt more strongly , but the emotion would have been similar in kind . 
I played with the idea , as the child flees in delighted terror from the creations of his fancy . 
The look of the thing helped me . 
As I ascended the mountain side , I came once more to overlook the upper surface of the fog but it wore a different appearance from what I had beheld at daybreak . 
For , first , the sun now fell on it from high overhead , and its surface shone and undulated like a great nor'land moor country , sheeted with untrodden morning snow . 
Napa valley was now one with Sonoma on the west . 
Through the Toll House gap and over the near ridges on the other side , the deluge was immense . 
A spray of thin vapour was thrown high above it , rising and falling , and blown into fantastic shapes . 
The speed of its course was like a mountain torrent . 
But still the imagination was dissatisfied , still the ear waited for something more . 
About eleven , however , thin spray came flying over the friendly buttress , and I began to think the fog had hunted out its Jonah after all . 
But it was the last effort . 
This was the great Russian campaign for that season . 
There were no neighbours , except the Hansons up the hill . 
She had chosen this outlying situation , I understood , for her health . 
Mr. Corwin was consumptive so was Rufe so was Mr. Jennings , the engineer . 
In short , the place was a kind of small Davos consumptive folk consorting on a hilltop in the most unbroken idleness . 
Jennings never did anything that I could see , except now and then to fish , and generally to sit about in the bar and the verandah , waiting for something to happen . 
, a mirror , and a selection of dried grasses . 
A large book was laid religiously on the table From Palace to Hovel , I believe , its name full of the raciest experiences in England . 
The author had mingled freely with all classes , the nobility particularly meeting him with open arms and I must say that traveller had ill requited his reception . 
The mention of this book reminds me of another and far racier picture of our island life . 
The latter parts of ROCAMBOLE are surely too sparingly consulted in the country which they celebrate . 
To follow the evolutions of that reverend gentleman , who goes through scenes in which even Mr. Duffield would hesitate to place a bishop , is to rise to new ideas . 
But , alas ! there was no Patterson about the Toll House . 
Only , alongside of From Palace to Hovel , a sixpenny Ouida figured . 
So literature , you see , was not unrepresented . 
The school ma'am had friends to stay with her , other school ma'ams enjoying their holidays , quite a bevy of damsels . 
They seemed never to go out , or not beyond the verandah , but sat close in the little parlour , quietly talking or listening to the wind among the trees . 
Sleep dwelt in the Toll House , like a fixture summer sleep , shallow , soft , and dreamless . 
A little before stage time , that castle of indolence awoke . 
The ostler threw his straw away and set to his preparations . 
And as yet there was no sign for the senses , not a sound , not a tremor of the mountain road . 
The birds , to whom the secret of the hooting cuckoo is unknown , must have set down to instinct this premonitory bustle . 
Yes , like Piccadilly circus , this is also one of life's crossing places . 
For all his lust and vigour , he seemed to look cold upon me from the valley of the shadow of the gallows . 
He imagined a vain thing and while he drained his cock tail , Holbein's death was at his elbow . 
To him , journeying from one human place to another , this was a trifle but to me ! No , Mr. Lillie , I have not forgotten it . 
And presently the city tide was at its flood and began to ebb . 
Life runs in Piccadilly Circus , say , from nine to one , and then , there also , ebbs into the small hours of the echoing policeman and the lamps and stars . 
But the Toll House is far up stream , and near its rural springs the bubble of the tide but touches it . 
Before you had yet grasped your pleasure , the horses were put to , the loud whips volleyed , and the tide was gone . 
A STARRY DRIVE IN our rule at Silverado , there was a melancholy interregnum . 
By that time we had begun to realize the difficulties of our position . 
We could have given him a whole house to himself , self contained , as they say in the advertisements and on the money question we were prepared to go far . 
He was a handsome , gentlemanly lad , attired in rich dark blue , and shod with snowy white but , alas ! he had heard rumours of Silverado . 
He was wedded to his wash houses he had no taste for the rural life and we must go to our mountain servantless . 
We were not , however , to return alone for we brought with us Joe Strong , the painter , a most good natured comrade and a capital hand at an omelette . 
I do not know in which capacity he was most valued as a cook or a companion and he did excellently well in both . 
The Kong Sam Kee negotiation had delayed us unduly it must have been half past nine before we left Calistoga , and night came fully ere we struck the bottom of the grade . 
I have never seen such a night . 
It seemed to throw calumny in the teeth of all the painters that ever dabbled in starlight . 
The sky itself was of a ruddy , powerful , nameless , changing colour , dark and glossy like a serpent's back . 
The stars , by innumerable millions , stuck boldly forth like lamps . 
The milky way was bright , like a moonlit cloud half heaven seemed milky way . 
The greater luminaries shone each more clearly than a winter's moon . 
Against this the hills and rugged treetops stood out redly dark . 
Slowly this change proceeded , and still there was no sign of any cause . 
Then a whiteness like mist was thrown over the spurs of the mountain . 
Where are ye when the moon appears ? so the old poet sang , half taunting , to the stars , bent upon a courtly purpose . 
So sings Mr. Trowbridge , with a noble inspiration . 
And so had the sunlight flooded that pale islet of the moon , and her lit face put out , one after another , that galaxy of stars . 
It was gone , but it had been nor shall I ever again behold the stars with the same mind . 
He who has seen the sea commoved with a great hurricane , thinks of it very differently from him who has seen it only in a calm . 
And the difference between a calm and a hurricane is not greatly more striking than that between the ordinary face of night and the splendour that shone upon us in that drive . 
Two in our waggon knew night as she shines upon the tropics , but even that bore no comparison . 
Sam , who had been lying back , fast asleep , with the moon on his face , got down , with the remark that it was pleasant to be home . 
The moon shone in at the eastern doors and windows , and over the lumber on the platform . 
The one tall pine beside . 
the ledge was steeped in silver . 
Away up the canyon , a wild cat welcomed us with three discordant squalls . 
Yet , in our absence , the palace had been sacked . 
Wild cats , so the Hansons said , had broken in and carried off a side of bacon , a hatchet , and two knives . 
EPISODES IN THE STORY OF A MINE NO one could live at Silverado and not be curious about the story of the mine . 
But Silverado itself , although now fallen in its turn into decay , was once but a mushroom , and had succeeded to other mines and other flitting cities . 
Both of these have perished , leaving not a stick and scarce a memory behind them . 
Tide after tide of hopeful miners have thus flowed and ebbed about the mountain , coming and going , now by lone prospectors , now with a rush . 
Our noisy years seem moments in the wake Of the eternal silence . 
As to the success of Silverado in its time of being , two reports were current . 
According to the first , six hundred thousand dollars were taken out of that great upright seam , that still hung open above us on crazy wedges . 
According to the second version , told me with much secrecy of manner , the whole affair , mine , mill , and town , were parts of one majestic swindle . 
There had never come any silver out of any portion of the mine there was no silver to come . 
At midnight trains of packhorses might have been observed winding by devious tracks about the shoulder of the mountain . 
They came from far away , from Amador or Placer , laden with silver in old cigar boxes . 
They discharged their load at Silverado , in the hour of sleep and before the morning they were gone again with their mysterious drivers to their unknown source . 
Stock jobbing , if it can cover such expenses , must be a profitable business in San Francisco . 
I give these two versions as I got them . 
But I place little reliance on either , my belief in history having been greatly shaken . 
And yet from first to last I never had a glimmer of an idea what was going on and even now , after full reflection , profess myself at sea . 
Silverado , then under my immediate sway , belonged to one whom I will call a Mr. Ronalds . 
So , through a defective window pane , you may see the passer by shoot up into a hunchbacked giant or dwindle into a potbellied dwarf . 
This , with a sort of quiet slyness , Rufe told me at an early period of our acquaintance . 
Of course , I had no objection . 
But I was filled with wonder . 
If all he wanted was the wood and iron , what , in the name of fortune , was to prevent him taking them ? His right there was none to dispute . 
He might lay hands on all to morrow , as the wild cats had laid hands upon our knives and hatchet . 
However , it was none of my business all seemed legal Rufe or Ronalds , all was one to me . 
On the morning of the th , Mrs. Hanson appeared with the milk as usual , in her sun bonnet . 
The time would be out on Tuesday , she reminded us , and bade me be in readiness to play my part , though I had no idea what it was to be . 
And suppose Ronalds came ? we asked . 
She received the idea with derision , laughing aloud with all her fine teeth . 
He could not find the mine to save his life , it appeared , without Rufe to guide him . 
Last year , when he came , they heard him up and down the road a hollerin' and a raisin' Cain . 
The sense of locality must be singularly in abeyance in the case of Ronalds . 
We pricked our ears at this , for the tread seemed lighter and firmer than was usual with our country neighbours . 
And presently , sure enough , two town gentlemen , with cigars and kid gloves , came debauching past the house . 
They looked in that place like a blasphemy . 
Good evening , they said . 
For none of us had stirred we all sat stiff with wonder . 
Good evening , I returned and then , to put them at their ease , A stiff climb , I added . 
Yes , replied the leader but we have to thank you for this path . 
I did not like the man's tone . 
None of us liked it . 
He did not seem embarrassed by the meeting , but threw us his remarks like favours , and strode magisterially by us towards the shaft and tunnel . 
Presently we heard his voice raised to his companion . 
We drifted every sort of way , but couldn't strike the ledge . 
Then again It pinched out here . 
And once more Every minor that ever worked upon it says there's bound to be a ledge somewhere . 
These were the snatches of his talk that reached us , and they had a damning significance . 
We , the lords of Silverado , had come face to face with our superior . 
It is the worst of all quaint and of all cheap ways of life that they bring us at last to the pinch of some humiliation . 
I liked well enough to be a squatter when there was none but Hanson by before Ronalds , I will own , I somewhat quailed . 
I hastened to do him fealty , said I gathered he was the Squattee , and apologized . 
Ninety thousand dollars came out a hundred and forty thousand were put in , making a net loss of fifty thousand . 
A noisy , last shot , to inaugurate the days of silence . 
Throughout this interview , my conscience was a good deal exercised and I was moved to throw myself on my knees and own the intended treachery . 
But then I had Hanson to consider . 
I was in much the same position as Old Rowley , that royal humourist , whom the rogue had taken into his confidence . 
And again , here was Ronalds on the spot . 
He must know the day of the month as well as Hanson and I. If a broad hint were necessary , he had the broadest in the world . 
But no , nothing could save that man QUEM DEUS VULT PERDERE , PRIUS DEMENTAT . 
As he came so he went , and left his rights depending . 
Late at night , by Silverado reckoning , and after we were all abed , Mrs. Hanson returned to give us the newest of her news . 
Any ship , to be sure , with a hundredth part as many holes in it as our barrack , must long ago have gone to her last port . 
But I now found there was an art in it , I found it less communicative than silence itself . 
I wished to know why Ronalds had come how he had found his way without Rufe and why , being on the spot , he had not refreshed his title . 
She talked interminably on , but her replies were never answers . 
She had come to tell us that , instead of waiting for Tuesday , the claim was to be jumped on the morrow . 
How ? If the time were not out , it was impossible . 
Why ? If Ronalds had come and gone , and done nothing , there was the less cause for hurry . 
But again I could reach no satisfaction . 
The claim was to be jumped next morning , that was all that she would condescend upon . 
And yet it was not jumped the next morning , nor yet the next , and a whole week had come and gone before we heard more of this exploit . 
Not a word occurred about the business of the day . 
There is nothing of the Indian brave about me , and I began to grill with impatience . 
At last , like a highway robber , I cornered Hanson , and bade him stand and deliver his business . 
There he bestowed himself on a box , and unrolled his papers with fastidious deliberation . 
There were two sheets of note paper , and an old mining notice , dated May th , , part print , part manuscript , and the latter much obliterated by the rains . 
It was by this identical piece of paper that the mine had been held last year . 
One was then to be placed on the same cairn a mound of rocks the notice put it and the other to be lodged for registration . 
I don't think that'll be necessary , he said slowly just you write it down . 
Perhaps this mighty hunter , who was the most active member of the local school board , could not write . 
There would be nothing strange in that . 
The constable of Calistoga is , and has been for years , a bed ridden man , and , if I remember rightly , blind . 
He had more need of the emoluments than another , it was explained and it was easy for him to depytize , with a strong accent on the last . 
So friendly and so free are popular institutions . 
The claim had once been called the Calistoga before , and he seemed to feel safety in returning to that . 
And so the history of that mine became once more plunged in darkness , lit only by some monster pyrotechnical displays of gossip . 
Wherever a man is , there will be a lie . 
Within , it had the look of habitation , the human look . 
A single shower of rain , to be sure , and we should have been drowned out like mice . 
But ours was a Californian summer , and an earthquake was a far likelier accident than a shower of rain . 
Trustful in this fine weather , we kept the house for kitchen and bedroom , and used the platform as our summer parlour . 
The sense of privacy , as I have said already , was complete . 
But here there was no man to intrude . 
None but the Hansons were our visitors . 
Even they came but at long intervals , or twice daily , at a stated hour , with milk . 
My work , it is true , was over early in the morning . 
I rose before any one else , lit the stove , put on the water to boil , and strolled forth upon the platform to wait till it was ready . 
Silverado would then be still in shadow , the sun shining on the mountain higher up . 
A clean smell of trees , a smell of the earth at morning , hung in the air . 
Regularly , every day , there was a single bird , not singing , but awkwardly chirruping among the green madronas , and the sound was cheerful , natural , and stirring . 
The freshness of these morning seasons remained with me far on into the day . 
Thenceforth my wife laboured single handed in the palace , and I lay or wandered on the platform at my own sweet will . 
These were known as Sam's lessons . 
To walk at all was a laborious business the foot sank and slid , the boots were cut to pieces , among sharp , uneven , rolling stones . 
When we crossed the platform in any direction , it was usual to lay a course , following as much as possible the line of waggon rails . 
Thus , if water were to be drawn , the water carrier left the house along some tilting planks that we had laid down , and not laid down very well . 
These carried him to that great highroad , the railway and the railway served him as far as to the head of the shaft . 
Yet I liked to draw water . 
But the extreme roughness of the walking confined us in common practice to the platform , and indeed to those parts of it that were most easily accessible along the line of rails . 
There , in old days , the trucks were tipped , and their load sent thundering down the chute . 
There , besides , was the only spot where we could approach the margin of the dump . 
Anywhere else , you took your life in your right hand when you came within a yard and a half to peer over . 
For at any moment the dump might begin to slide and carry you down and bury you below its ruins . 
Indeed , the neighbourhood of an old mine is a place beset with dangers . 
I have already compared the dump to a rampart , built certainly by some rude people , and for prehistoric wars . 
It was likewise a frontier . 
All below was green and woodland , the tall pines soaring one above another , each with a firm outline and full spread of bough . 
All above was arid , rocky , and bald . 
But nature herself , in that upper district , seemed to have had an eye to nothing besides mining and even the natural hill side was all sliding gravel and precarious boulder . 
Close at the margin of the well leaves would decay to skeletons and mummies , which at length some stronger gust would carry clear of the canyon and scatter in the subjacent woods . 
Even moisture and decaying vegetable matter could not , with all nature's alchemy , concoct enough soil to nourish a few poor grasses . 
It is the same , they say , in the neighbourhood of all silver mines the nature of that precious rock being stubborn with quartz and poisonous with cinnabar . 
Both were plenty in our Silverado . 
The stones sparkled white in the sunshine with quartz they were all stained red with cinnabar . 
Now , Sam had it in his undisturbed possession , to pound down and slake , and paint his rude designs with . 
Yet this is but half the picture our Silverado platform has another side to it . 
Calcanthus crept , like a hardy weed , all over our rough parlour , choking the railway , and pushing forth its rusty , aromatic cones from between two blocks of shattered mineral . 
Azaleas made a big snow bed just above the well . 
The shoulder of the hill waved white with Mediterranean heath . 
In the crannies of the ledge and about the spurs of the tall pine , a red flowering stone plant hung in clusters . 
Even the low , thorny chaparral was thick with pea like blossom . 
Close at the foot of our path nutmegs prospered , delightful to the sight and smell . 
All this vegetation , to be sure , was stunted . 
For a prosperous forest tree , we must look below , where the glen was crowded with green spires . 
But there they all grew together , healthy , happy , and happy making , as though rooted in a fathom of black soil . 
Nor was it only vegetable life that prospered . 
We had , indeed , few birds , and none that had much of a voice or anything worthy to be called a song . 
My morning comrade had a thin chirp , unmusical and monotonous , but friendly and pleasant to hear . 
He had but one rival a fellow with an ostentatious cry of near an octave descending , not one note of which properly followed another . 
This is the only bird I ever knew with a wrong ear but there was something enthralling about his performance . 
You listened and listened , thinking each time he must surely get it right but no , it was always wrong , and always wrong the same way . 
Yet he seemed proud of his song , delivered it with execution and a manner of his own , and was charming to his mate . 
A very incorrect , incessant human whistler had thus a chance of knowing how his own music pleased the world . 
Two great birds eagles , we thought dwelt at the top of the canyon , among the crags that were printed on the sky . 
But if birds were rare , the place abounded with rattlesnakes the rattlesnake's nest , it might have been named . 
Wherever we brushed among the bushes , our passage woke their angry buzz . 
One dwelt habitually in the wood pile , and sometimes , when we came for firewood , thrust up his small head between two logs , and hissed at the intrusion . 
The rattle has a legendary credit it is said to be awe inspiring , and , once heard , to stamp itself for ever in the memory . 
But the sound is not at all alarming the hum of many insects , and the buzz of the wasp convince the ear of danger quite as readily . 
As a matter of fact , we lived for weeks in Silverado , coming and going , with rattles sprung on every side , and it never occurred to us to be afraid . 
Immediately on our return , we attacked the Hansons on the subject . 
This is a contribution rather to the natural history of the Hansons , than to that of snakes . 
One person , however , better served by his instinct , had known the rattle from the first and that was Chuchu , the dog . 
No rational creature has ever led an existence more poisoned by terror than that dog's at Silverado . 
Every whiz of the rattle made him bound . 
His eyes rolled he trembled he would be often wet with sweat . 
One of our great mysteries was his terror of the mountain . 
A little away above our nook , the azaleas and almost all the vegetation ceased . 
Dwarf pines not big enough to be Christmas trees , grew thinly among loose stone and gravel scaurs . 
Here and there a big boulder sat quiescent on a knoll , having paused there till the next rain in his long slide down the mountain . 
There was here no ambuscade for the snakes , you could see clearly where you trod and yet the higher I went , the more abject and appealing became Chuchu's terror . 
And there was , or there had been , another animal . 
His long hind legs were stiff , his tiny forepaws clutched upon his breast , as if to leap his poor life cut short upon that mountain by some unknown accident . 
But the kangaroo rat , it proved , was no such unknown animal and my discovery was nothing . 
I thought I could make out exactly four of them , each with a corner of his own , who used to make night musical at Silverado . 
There was another neighbour of ours at Silverado , small but very active , a destructive fellow . 
This was a black , ugly fly a bore , the Hansons called him who lived by hundreds in the boarding of our house . 
There lives no more industrious creature than a bore . 
Indeed , it would be hard to exaggerate the pleasure that we took in the approach of evening . 
Our day was not very long , but it was very tiring . 
Life out of doors , besides , under the fierce eye of day , draws largely on the animal spirits . 
The hours of evening , when we were once curtained in the friendly dark , sped lightly . 
Even as with the crickets , night brought to us a certain spirit of rejoicing . 
It seemed , in some way , the reward and the fulfilment of the day . 
Our nights wore never cold , and they were always still , but for one remarkable exception . 
As far as I could judge , in the clear darkness of the night , this wind was purely local perhaps dependant on the configuration of the glen . 
I was the last to go to bed , as I was still the first to rise . 
Many a night I have strolled about the platform , taking a bath of darkness before I slept . 
The rest would be in bed , and even from the forge I could hear them talking together from bunk to bunk . 
A single candle in the neck of a pint bottle was their only illumination and yet the old cracked house seemed literally bursting with the light . 
You would have said a conflagration , or at the least a roaring forge and behold , it was but a candle . 
But the more he is alone with nature , the greater man and his doings bulk in the consideration of his fellow men . 
