Note I have made the following changes to the text PAGE PARA . 
LINE ORIGINALLY CHANGED TO one ? one ? men man me , me , earth . 
, Two Widows and the Red Plums FOREWORD In publishing these Myths of the Sioux , I deem it proper to state that I am of one fourth Sioux blood . 
My grandmother , Ha za ho ta win , was a full blood of the Medawakanton Band of the Sioux Tribe of Indians . 
There is something in the music which unerringly tells us of its source . 
I believe musicians call it the timbre of the sound . 
It is independent of , and different from , both pitch and rhythm it is the texture of the music itself . 
The timbre of a people's stories tells of the qualities of that people's heart . 
It is the texture of the thought , independent of its form or fashioning , which tells the quality of the mind from which it springs . 
They will also give an intimate insight into the mentality of an interesting race at a most interesting stage of development , which is now fast receding into the mists of the past . 
McLaughlin , S. D. , May , . 
THE FORGOTTEN EAR OF CORN An Arikara woman was once gathering corn from the field to store away for winter use . 
She passed from stalk to stalk , tearing off the ears and dropping them into her folded robe . 
What child can that be ? she asked herself . 
What babe can be lost in the cornfield ? She set down her robe in which she had tied up her corn , and went back to search but she found nothing . 
As she started away she heard the voice again Oh , do not leave me . 
Do not go away without me . 
She searched for a long time . 
At last in one corner of the field , hidden under the leaves of the stalks , she found one little ear of corn . 
THE LITTLE MICE Once upon a time a prairie mouse busied herself all fall storing away a cache of beans . 
Every morning she was out early with her empty cast off snake skin , which she filled with ground beans and dragged home with her teeth . 
The little mouse had a cousin who was fond of dancing and talk , but who did not like to work . 
She was not careful to get her cache of beans and the season was already well gone before she thought to bestir herself . 
When she came to realize her need , she found she had no packing bag . 
So she went to her hardworking cousin and said Cousin , I have no beans stored for winter and the season is nearly gone . 
But I have no snake skin to gather the beans in . 
Will you lend me one ? But why have you no packing bag ? Where were you in the moon when the snakes cast off their skins ? I was here . 
What were you doing ? I was busy talking and dancing . 
And now you are punished , said the other . 
It is always so with lazy , careless people . 
But I will let you have the snake skin . 
And now go , and by hard work and industry , try to recover your wasted time . 
THE PET RABBIT A little girl owned a pet rabbit which she loved dearly . 
She carried it on her back like a babe , made for it a little pair of moccasins , and at night shared with it her own robe . 
She then went to the little girl and said Cousin , let me carry your pet rabbit about on my back . 
Thus shall I show you how I love you . 
Her mother , too , said to her Oh no , do not let our little grandchild go away from our tepee . 
But the cousin answered Oh , do let me carry it . 
I do so want to show my cousin honor . 
At last they let her go away with the pet rabbit on her back . 
When the little girl's cousin came home to her tepee , some rough boys who were playing about began to make sport of her . 
To tease the little girl they threw stones and sticks at the pet rabbit . 
At last a stick struck the little rabbit upon the head and killed it . 
When her pet was brought home dead , the little rabbit's adopted mother wept bitterly . 
She cut off her hair for mourning and all her little girl friends wailed with her . 
Her mother , too , mourned with them . 
Alas ! they cried , alas , for the little rabbit . 
He was always kind and gentle . 
Now your child is dead and you will be lonesome . 
The little girl's mother called in her little friends and made a great mourning feast for the little rabbit . 
As he lay in the tepee his adopted mother's little friends brought many precious things and covered his body . 
At the feast were given away robes and kettles and blankets and knives and great wealth in honor of the little rabbit . 
Him they wrapped in a robe with his little moccasins on and buried him in a high place upon a scaffold . 
THE PET DONKEY There was a chief's daughter once who had a great many relations so that everybody knew she belonged to a great family . 
When she grew up she married and there were born to her twin sons . 
This caused great rejoicing in her father's camp , and all the village women came to see the babes . 
As the babes grew older , their grandmother made for them two saddle bags and brought out a donkey . 
My two grandchildren , said the old lady , shall ride as is becoming to children having so many relations . 
He is patient and surefooted . 
He shall carry the babes in the saddle bags , one on either side of his back . 
It happened one day that the chief's daughter and her husband were making ready to go on a camping journey . 
The father , who was quite proud of his children , brought out his finest pony , and put the saddle bags on the pony's back . 
There , he said , my sons shall ride on the pony , not on a donkey let the donkey carry the pots and kettles . 
So his wife loaded the donkey with the household things . 
But no sooner done than the donkey began to rear and bray and kick . 
He broke the tent poles and kicked the pots and kettles into bits and tore the skin tent . 
The more he was beaten the more he kicked . 
At last they told the grandmother . 
Did I not tell you the donkey was for the children , she cried . 
He knows the babies are the chief's children . 
Think you he will be dishonored with pots and kettles ? and she fetched the children and slung them over the donkey's back , when he became at once quiet again . 
The camping party left the village and went on their journey . 
But the next day as they passed by a place overgrown with bushes , a band of enemies rushed out , lashing their ponies and sounding their war whoop . 
The men bent their bows and seized their lances . 
After a long battle the enemy fled . 
But when the camping party came together again where were the donkey and the two babes ? No one knew . 
For a long time they searched , but in vain . 
At last they turned to go back to the village , the father mournful , the mother wailing . 
When they came to the grandmother's tepee , there stood the good donkey with the two babes in the saddle bags . 
THE RABBIT AND THE ELK The little rabbit lived with his old grandmother , who needed a new dress . 
I will go out and trap a deer or an elk for you , he said . 
Then you shall have a new dress . 
When he went out hunting he laid down his bow in the path while he looked at his snares . 
An elk coming by saw the bow . 
I will play a joke on the rabbit , said the elk to himself . 
I will make him think I have been caught in his bow string . 
He then put one foot on the string and lay down as if dead . 
By and by the rabbit returned . 
When he saw the elk he was filled with joy and ran home crying Grandmother , I have trapped a fine elk . 
You shall have a new dress from his skin . 
Throw the old one in the fire ! This the old grandmother did . 
The elk now sprang to his feet laughing . 
Ho , friend rabbit , he called , You thought to trap me now I have mocked you . 
And he ran away into the thicket . 
The rabbit who had come back to skin the elk now ran home again . 
Grandmother , don't throw your dress in the fire , he cried . 
But it was too late . 
The old dress was burned . 
THE RABBIT AND THE GROUSE GIRLS The rabbit once went out on the prairie in winter time . 
On the side of a hill away from the wind he found a great company of girls all with grey and speckled blankets over their backs . 
They were the grouse girls and they were coasting down hill on a board . 
When the rabbit saw them , he called out Oh , maidens , that is not a good way to coast down hill . 
Let me get you a fine skin with bangles on it that tinkle as you slide . 
And away he ran to the tepee and brought a skin bag . 
It had red stripes on it and bangles that tinkled . 
Come and get inside , he said to the grouse girls . 
Oh , no , we are afraid , they answered . 
Don't be afraid , I can't hurt you . 
Come , one of you , said the rabbit . 
Then as each hung back he added coaxingly If each is afraid alone , come all together . 
I can't hurt you i all i . 
And so he coaxed the whole flock into the bag . 
This done , the rabbit closed the mouth of the bag , slung it over his back and came home . 
Grandmother , said he , as he came to the tepee , here is a bag full of game . 
Watch it while I go for willow sticks to make spits . 
But as soon as the rabbit had gone out of the tent , the grouse girls began to cry out Grandmother , let us out . 
Who are you ? asked the old woman . 
Your dear grandchildren , they answered . 
But how came you in the bag ? asked the old woman . 
Oh , our cousin was jesting with us . 
He coaxed us in the bag for a joke . 
The old woman caught only one grouse as it flew up and held it , grasping a leg with each hand . 
When the rabbit came home with the spits she called out to him Grandson , come quick . 
They got out but I have caught two . 
When he saw what had happened he was quite angry , yet could not keep from laughing . 
Grandmother , you have but one grouse , he cried , and it is a very skinny one at that . 
THE FAITHFUL LOVERS There once lived a chief's daughter who had many relations . 
All the young men in the village wanted to have her for wife , and were all eager to fill her skin bucket when she went to the brook for water . 
There was a young man in the village who was industrious and a good hunter but he was poor and of a mean family . 
He loved the maiden and when she went for water , he threw his robe over her head while he whispered in her ear Be my wife . 
I have little but I am young and strong . 
I will treat you well , for I love you . 
For a long time the maiden did not answer , but one day she whispered back . 
Yes , you may ask my father's leave to marry me . 
But first you must do something noble . 
I belong to a great family and have many relations . 
You must go on a war party and bring back the scalp of an enemy . 
The young man answered modestly , I will try to do as you bid me . 
I am only a hunter , not a warrior . 
Whether I shall be brave or not I do not know . 
But I will try to take a scalp for your sake . 
So he made a war party of seven , himself and six other young men . 
They wandered through the enemy's country , hoping to get a chance to strike a blow . 
But none came , for they found no one of the enemy . 
Our medicine is unfavorable , said their leader at last . 
We shall have to return home . 
Before they started they sat down to smoke and rest beside a beautiful lake at the foot of a green knoll that rose from its shore . 
The knoll was covered with green grass and somehow as they looked at it they had a feeling that there was something about it that was mysterious or uncanny . 
But there was a young man in the party named the jester , for he was venturesome and full of fun . 
Gazing at the knoll he said Let's run and jump on its top . 
No , said the young lover , it looks mysterious . 
Sit still and finish your smoke . 
Oh , come on , who's afraid , said the jester , laughing . 
Come on you come on ! and springing to his feet he ran up the side of the knoll . 
Four of the young men followed . 
Having reached the top of the knoll all five began to jump and stamp about in sport , calling , Come on , come on , to the others . 
Suddenly they stopped the knoll had begun to move toward the water . 
It was a gigantic turtle . 
The five men cried out in alarm and tried to run too late ! Their feet by some power were held fast to the monster's back . 
Help us drag us away , they cried but the others could do nothing . 
In a few moments the waves had closed over them . 
The other two men , the lover and his friend , went on , but with heavy hearts , for they had forebodings of evil . 
After some days , they came to a river . 
Worn with fatigue the lover threw himself down on the bank . 
I will sleep awhile , he said , for I am wearied and worn out . 
And I will go down to the water and see if I can chance upon a dead fish . 
At this time of the year the high water may have left one stranded on the seashore , said his friend . 
And as he had said , he found a fish which he cleaned , and then called to the lover . 
Come and eat the fish with me . 
I have cleaned it and made a fire and it is now cooking . 
No , you eat it let me rest , said the lover . 
No , let me rest . 
But you are my friend . 
I will not eat unless you share it with me . 
Very well , said the lover , I will eat the fish with you , but you must first make me a promise . 
If I eat the fish , you must promise , pledge yourself , to fetch me all the water that I can drink . 
I promise , said the other , and the two ate the fish out of their war kettle . 
For there had been but one kettle for the party . 
When they had eaten , the kettle was rinsed out and the lover's friend brought it back full of water . 
This the lover drank at a draught . 
Bring me more , he said . 
Again his friend filled the kettle at the river and again the lover drank it dry . 
Oh , I am tired . 
Cannot you go to the river and drink your fill from the stream ? asked his friend . 
Yes , but I am weary . 
Ek hey , I feared it would be so . 
Now trouble is coming upon us , said the lover sadly . 
He walked to the river , sprang in , and lying down in the water with his head toward land , drank greedily . 
By and by he called to his friend . 
Come hither , you who have been my sworn friend . 
See what comes of your broken promise . 
The friend came and was amazed to see that the lover was now a fish from his feet to his middle . 
Sick at heart he ran off a little way and threw himself upon the ground in grief . 
By and by he returned . 
The lover was now a fish to his neck . 
Cannot I cut off the part and restore you by a sweat bath ? the friend asked . 
No , it is too late . 
But tell the chief's daughter that I loved her to the last and that I die for her sake . 
Take this belt and give it to her . 
The friend went home and told his story . 
There was great mourning over the death of the five young men , and for the lost lover . 
In the river the great fish remained , its fin just above the surface , and was called by the Indians Fish that Bars , because it bar'd navigation . 
Canoes had to be portaged at great labor around the obstruction . 
The chief's daughter mourned for her lover as for a husband , nor would she be comforted . 
He was lost for love of me , and I shall remain as his widow , she wailed . 
In her mother's tepee she sat , with her head covered with her robe , silent , working , working . 
What is my daughter doing , her mother asked . 
But the maiden did not reply . 
The days lengthened into moons until a year had passed . 
And then the maiden arose . 
In her hands were beautiful articles of clothing , enough for three men . 
There were three pairs of moccasins , three pairs of leggings , three belts , three shirts , three head dresses with beautiful feathers , and sweet smelling tobacco . 
Make a new canoe of bark , she said , which was made for her . 
Into the canoe she stepped and floated slowly down the river toward the great fish . 
Come back my daughter , her mother cried in agony . 
The great fish will eat you . 
Her canoe came to the place where the great fin arose and stopped , its prow grating on the monster's back . 
The maiden stepped out boldly . 
One by one she laid her presents on the fish's back , scattering the feathers and tobacco over his broad spine . 
Oh , fish , she cried , Oh , fish , you who were my lover , I shall not forget you . 
Because you were lost for love of me , I shall never marry . 
All my life I shall remain a widow . 
And now leave the river , and let the waters run free , so my people may once more descend in their canoes . 
She stepped into her canoe and waited . 
Slowly the great fish sank , his broad fin disappeared , and the waters of the St . 
THE ARTICHOKE AND THE MUSKRAT On the shore of a lake stood an artichoke with its green leaves waving in the sun . 
Very proud of itself it was , and well satisfied with the world . 
In the lake below lived a muskrat in his tepee , and in the evening as the sun set he would come out upon the shore and wander over the bank . 
One evening he came near the place where the artichoke stood . 
Ho , friend , he said , you seem rather proud of yourself . 
Who are you ? I am the artichoke , answered the other , and I have many handsome cousins . 
But who are you ? I am the muskrat , and I , too , belong to a large family . 
I live in the water . 
I don't stand all day in one place like a stone . 
If I stand in one place all day , retorted the artichoke , at least I don't swim around in stagnant water , and build my lodge in the mud . 
You are jealous of my fine fur , sneered the muskrat . 
I may build my lodge in the mud , but I always have a clean coat . 
But you are half buried in the ground , and when men dig you up , you are never clean . 
And your fine coat always smells of musk , jeered the artichoke . 
That is true , said the muskrat . 
But men think well of me , nevertheless . 
They trap me for the fine sinew in my tail and handsome young women bite off my tail with their white teeth and make it into thread . 
That's nothing , laughed the artichoke . 
Handsome young warriors , painted and splendid with feathers , dig me up , brush me off with their shapely hands and eat me without even taking the trouble to wash me off . 
THE RABBIT AND THE BEAR WITH THE FLINT BODY The Rabbit and his grandmother were in dire straits , because the rabbit was out of arrows . 
The fall hunt would soon be on and his quiver was all but empty . 
Arrow sticks he could cut in plenty , but he had nothing with which to make arrowheads . 
You must make some flint arrowheads , said his grandmother . 
Then you will be able to kill game . 
Where shall I get the flint ? asked the rabbit . 
From the old bear chief , said his old grandmother . 
For at that time all the flint in the world was in the bear's body . 
So the rabbit set out for the village of the Bears . 
He came at one end of the village to a hut where lived an old woman . 
He pushed open the door and entered . 
Everybody who came for flint always stopped there because it was the first lodge on the edge of the village . 
Strangers were therefore not unusual in the old woman's hut , and she welcomed the rabbit . 
She gave him a seat and at night he lay with his feet to the fire . 
The next morning the rabbit went to the lodge of the bear chief . 
They sat together awhile and smoked . 
At last the bear chief spoke . 
What do you want , my grandson ? I have come for some flint to make arrows , answered the rabbit . 
The bear chief grunted , and laid aside his pipe . 
Leaning back he pulled off his robe and , sure enough , one half of his body was flesh and the other half hard flint . 
Bring a stone hammer and give it to our guest , he bade his wife . 
Then as the rabbit took the hammer he said Do not strike too hard . 
Grandfather , I shall be careful , said the rabbit . 
With a stroke he struck off a little flake of flint from the bear's body . 
Ni sko ke cha ? So big ? he asked . 
Harder , grandson strike off bigger pieces , said the bear . 
The rabbit struck a little harder . 
Ni sko ke cha ? So big ? he asked . 
No , no , strike off bigger pieces . 
I can't be here all day . 
Tanka kaksa wo ! Break off a big piece . 
The rabbit struck again hard ! Ni sko ke cha ? he cried , as the hammer fell . 
But even as he spoke the bear's body broke in two , the flesh part fell away and only the flint part remained . 
Like a flash the rabbit darted out of the hut . 
There was a great outcry in the village . 
Openmouthed , all the bears gave chase . 
Ota po , Ota po lots more , lots more , and a great storm of snow swept down from the sky . 
The rabbit , light of foot , bounded over the top of the snow . 
The bears sunk in and floundered about helpless . 
Seeing this , the rabbit turned back and killed them one by one with his club . 
That is why we now have so few bears . 
STORY OF THE LOST WIFE A Dakota girl married a man who promised to treat her kindly , but he did not keep his word . 
He was unreasonable , fault finding , and often beat her . 
Frantic with his cruelty , she ran away . 
The whole village turned out to search for her , but no trace of the missing wife was to be found . 
Meanwhile , the fleeing woman had wandered about all that day and the next night . 
The next day she met a man , who asked her who she was . 
She did not know it , but he was not really a man , but the chief of the wolves . 
Come with me , he said , and he led her to a large village . 
She was amazed to see here many wolves gray and black , timber wolves and coyotes . 
It seemed as if all the wolves in the world were there . 
The wolf chief led the young woman to a great tepee and invited her in . 
He asked her what she ate for food . 
Buffalo meat , she answered . 
He called two coyotes and bade them bring what the young woman wanted . 
They bounded away and soon returned with the shoulder of a fresh killed buffalo calf . 
How do you prepare it for eating ? asked the wolf chief . 
By boiling , answered the young woman . 
Again he called the two coyotes . 
Away they bounded and soon brought into the tent a small bundle . 
In it were punk , flint and steel stolen , it may be , from some camp of men . 
How do you make the meat ready ? asked the wolf chief . 
I cut it into slices , answered the young woman . 
The coyotes were called and in a short time fetched in a knife in its sheath . 
The young woman cut up the calf's shoulder into slices and ate it . 
Thus she lived for a year , all the wolves being very kind to her . 
At the end of that time the wolf chief said to her Your people are going off on a buffalo hunt . 
Tomorrow at noon they will be here . 
You must then go out and meet them or they will fall on us and kill us . 
The next day at about noon the young woman went to the top of a neighboring knoll . 
Coming toward her were some young men riding on their ponies . 
She stood up and held her hands so that they could see her . 
They wondered who she was , and when they were close by gazed at her closely . 
A year ago we lost a young woman if you are she , where have you been , they asked . 
I have been in the wolves' village . 
Do not harm them , she answered . 
We will ride back and tell the people , they said . 
Tomorrow again at noon , we shall meet you . 
The young woman went back to the wolf village , and the next day went again to a neighboring knoll , though to a different one . 
Soon she saw the camp coming in a long line over the prairie . 
First were the warriors , then the women and tents . 
The young woman's father and mother were overjoyed to see her . 
But when they came near her the young woman fainted , for she could not now bear the smell of human kind . 
When she came to herself she said You must go on a buffalo hunt , my father and all the hunters . 
Tomorrow you must come again , bringing with you the tongues and choice pieces of the kill . 
This he promised to do and all the men of the camp mounted their ponies and they had a great hunt . 
The next day they returned with their ponies laden with the buffalo meat . 
The young woman bade them pile the meat in a great heap between two hills which she pointed out to them . 
There was so much meat that the tops of the two hills were bridged level between by the meat pile . 
In the center of the pile the young woman planted a pole with a red flag . 
She then began to howl like a wolf , loudly . 
In a moment the earth seemed covered with wolves . 
They fell greedily on the meat pile and in a short time had eaten the last scrap . 
The young woman then joined her own people . 
Her husband wanted her to come and live with him again . 
For a long time she refused . 
However , at last they became reconciled . 
THE RACCOON AND THE CRAWFISH Sharp and cunning is the raccoon , say the Indians , by whom he is named Spotted Face . 
A crawfish one evening wandered along a river bank , looking for something dead to feast upon . 
A raccoon was also out looking for something to eat . 
He spied the crawfish and formed a plan to catch him . 
He lay down on the bank and feigned to be dead . 
By and by the crawfish came near by . 
Ho , he thought , here is a feast indeed but is he really dead . 
I will go near and pinch him with my claws and find out . 
So he went near and pinched the raccoon on the nose and then on his soft paws . 
The crawfish then pinched him on the ribs and tickled him so that the raccoon could hardly keep from laughing . 
The crawfish at last left him . 
The raccoon is surely dead , he thought . 
And he hurried back to the crawfish village and reported his find to the chief . 
All the villagers were called to go down to the feast . 
The chief bade the warriors and young men to paint their faces and dress in their gayest for a dance . 
So they marched in a long line first the warriors , with their weapons in hand , then the women with their babies and children to the place where the raccoon lay . 
But as they danced , the raccoon suddenly sprang to his feet . 
I'll break your rough bones . 
I'll crunch your ugly , rough paws . 
And he rushed among the crawfish , killing them by scores . 
The crawfish warriors fought bravely and the women ran screaming , all to no purpose . 
They did not feast on the raccoon the raccoon feasted i on them ! i LEGEND OF STANDING ROCK A Dakota had married an Arikara woman , and by her had one child . 
By and by he took another wife . 
The first wife was jealous and pouted . 
When time came for the village to break camp she refused to move from her place on the tent floor . 
The tent was taken down but she sat on the ground with her babe on her back The rest of the camp with her husband went on . 
At noon her husband halted the line . 
Go back to your sister in law , he said to his two brothers . 
Tell her to come on and we will await you here . 
But hasten , for I fear she may grow desperate and kill herself . 
The two rode off and arrived at their former camping place in the evening . 
The woman still sat on the ground . 
The elder spoke Sister in law , get up . 
We have come for you . 
She did not answer , and he put out his hand and touched her head . 
She had turned to stone ! The two brothers lashed their ponies and came back to camp . 
They told their story , but were not believed . 
The woman has killed herself and my brothers will not tell me , said the husband . 
However , the whole village broke camp and came back to the place where they had left the woman . 
Sure enough , she sat there still , a block of stone . 
The Indians were greatly excited . 
They chose out a handsome pony , made a new travois and placed the stone in the carrying net . 
Pony and travois were both beautifully painted and decorated with streamers and colors . 
, and was given a place of honor in the center of the camp . 
Whenever the camp moved the stone and travois were taken along . 
Thus the stone woman was carried for years , and finally brought to Standing Rock Agency , and now rests upon a brick pedestal in front of the Agency office . 
From this stone Standing Rock Agency derives its name . 
STORY OF THE PEACE PIPE Two young men were out strolling one night talking of love affairs . 
They passed around a hill and came to a little ravine or coulee . 
Suddenly they saw coming up from the ravine a beautiful woman . 
She was painted and her dress was of the very finest material . 
What a beautiful girl ! said one of the young men . 
I will steal her and make her my wife . 
No , said the other . 
The young woman approached and held out a pipe which she first offered to the sky , then to the earth and then advanced , holding it out in her extended hands . 
I know what you young men have been saying one of you is good the other is wicked , she said . 
She laid down the pipe on the ground and at once became a buffalo cow . 
The cow pawed the ground , stuck her tail straight out behind her and then lifted the pipe from the ground again in her hoofs immediately she became a young woman again . 
I am come to give you this gift , she said . 
It is the peace pipe . 
Hereafter all treaties and ceremonies shall be performed after smoking it . 
It shall bring peaceful thoughts into your minds . 
You shall offer it to the Great Mystery and to mother earth . 
The two young men ran to the village and told what they had seen and heard . 
All the village came out where the young woman was . 
you must have a white buffalo cow skin . 
She gave the pipe to the medicine men of the village , turned again to a buffalo cow and fled away to the land of buffaloes . 
A BASHFUL COURTSHIP A young man lived with his grandmother . 
He was a good hunter and wished to marry . 
He knew a girl who was a good moccasin maker , but she belonged to a great family . 
He wondered how he could win her . 
One day she passed the tent on her way to get water at the river . 
His grandmother was at work in the tepee with a pair of old worn out sloppy moccasins . 
The young man sprang to his feet . 
Quick , grandmother let me have those old sloppy moccasins you have on your feet ! he cried . 
My old moccasins , what do you want of them ? cried the astonished woman . 
Never mind ! Quick ! I can't stop to talk , answered the grandson as he caught up the old moccasins the old lady had doffed , and put them on . 
He threw a robe over his shoulders , slipped through the door , and hastened to the watering place . 
The girl had just arrived with her bucket . 
Let me fill your bucket for you , said the young man . 
Oh , no , I can do it . 
Oh , let me , I can go in the mud . 
My , what old moccasins you have , she cried . 
Yes , I have nobody to make me a new pair , he answered . 
Why don't you get your grandmother to make you a new pair ? She's old and blind and can't make them any longer . 
That's why I want you , he answered . 
Oh , you're fooling me . 
You aren't speaking the truth . 
If you don't believe come with me i now ! i The girl looked down so did the youth . 
In the mud she found two pairs of moccasin tracks close together at the edge of the water stood an empty keg . 
THE SIMPLETON'S WISDOM There was a man and his wife who had one daughter . 
Mother and daughter were deeply attached to one another , and when the latter died the mother was disconsolate . 
She cut off her hair , cut gashes in her cheeks and sat before the corpse with her robe drawn over her head , mourning for her dead . 
Nor would she let them touch the body to take it to a burying scaffold . 
She had a knife in her hand , and if anyone offered to come near the body the mother would wail I am weary of life . 
I do not care to live . 
I will stab myself with this knife and join my daughter in the land of spirits . 
Her husband and relatives tried to get the knife from her , but could not . 
They feared to use force lest she kill herself . 
They came together to see what they could do . 
We must get the knife away from her , they said . 
At last they called a boy , a kind of simpleton , yet with a good deal of natural shrewdness . 
He was an orphan and very poor . 
Go to the tepee of the mourning mother , they told the simpleton , and in some way contrive to make her laugh and forget her grief . 
Then try to get the knife away from her . 
The boy went to the tent and sat down at the door as if waiting to be given something . 
The corpse lay in the place of honor where the dead girl had slept in life . 
The body was wrapped in a rich robe and wrapped about with ropes . 
Friends had covered it with rich offerings out of respect to the dead . 
As the mother sat on the ground with her head covered she did not at first see the boy , who sat silent . 
But when his reserve had worn away a little he began at first lightly , then more heavily , to drum on the floor with his hands . 
After a while he began to sing a comic song . 
As he approached the corpse he waved his hands over it in blessing . 
Then she reached over and handed her knife to the simpleton . 
Take this knife , she said . 
You have taught me to forget my grief . 
If while I mourn for the dead I can still be mirthful , there is no reason for me to despair . 
I no longer care to die . 
I will live for my husband . 
The simpleton left the tepee and brought the knife to the astonished husband and relatives . 
How did you get it ? Did you force it away from her , or did you steal it ? they said . 
She gave it to me . 
How could I force it from her or steal it when she held it in her hand , blade uppermost ? I sang and danced for her and she burst out laughing . 
Then she gave it to me , he answered . 
When the old men of the village heard the orphan's story they were very silent . 
It was a strange thing for a lad to dance in a tepee where there was mourning . 
It was stranger that a mother should laugh in a tepee before the corpse of her dead daughter . 
The old men gathered at last in a council . 
They sat a long time without saying anything , for they did not want to decide hastily . 
The pipe was filled and passed many times . 
At last an old man spoke . 
We have a hard question . 
A mother has laughed before the corpse of her daughter , and many think she has done foolishly , but I think the woman did wisely . 
The lad was simple and of no training , and we cannot expect him to know how to do as well as one with good home and parents to teach him . 
Besides , he did the best that he knew . 
He danced to make the mother forget her grief , and he tried to honor the corpse by waving over it his hands . 
And besides , the simpleton's dancing saved the woman's life , for she gave up her knife . 
In this , too , she did well , for it is always better to live for the living than to die for the dead . 
A LITTLE BRAVE AND THE MEDICINE WOMAN A village of Indians moved out of winter camp and pitched their tents in a circle on high land overlooking a lake . 
A little way down the declivity was a grave . 
Choke cherries had grown up , hiding the grave from view . 
But as the ground had sunk somewhat , the grave was marked by a slight hollow . 
One of the villagers going out to hunt took a short cut through the choke cherry bushes . 
As he pushed them aside he saw the hollow grave , but thought it was a washout made by the rains . 
But as he essayed to step over it , to his great surprise he stumbled and fell . 
Made curious by his mishap , he drew back and tried again but again he fell . 
When he came back to the village he told the old men what had happened to him . 
They remembered then that a long time before there had been buried there a medicine woman or conjurer . 
Doubtless it was her medicine that made him stumble . 
The story of the villager's adventure spread thru the camp and made many curious to see the grave . 
Among others were six little boys who were , however , rather timid , for they were in great awe of the dead medicine woman . 
But they had a little playmate named Brave , a mischievous little rogue , whose hair was always unkempt and tossed about and who was never quiet for a moment . 
Let us ask Brave to go with us , they said and they went in a body to see him . 
All right , said Brave I will go with you . 
But I have something to do first . 
You go on around the hill i that i way , and I will hasten around i this i way , and meet you a little later near the grave . 
So the six little boys went on as bidden until they came to a place near the grave . 
Where is Brave ? they asked . 
Now Brave , full of mischief , had thought to play a jest on his little friends . 
He then went and lay down in the grave and awaited the boys . 
So they slowly approached the grave and one of them timidly called out Please , grandmother , we won't disturb your grave . 
We only want to see where you lie . 
At once a thin quavering voice , like an old woman's , called out Han , han , takoja , hechetuya , hechetuya ! Yes , yes , that's right , that's right . 
The boys were frightened out of their senses , believing the old woman had come to life . 
Oh , grandmother , they gasped , don't hurt us please don't , we'll go . 
Just then Brave raised his muddy face and hands up thru the choke cherry bushes . 
With the oozy mud dripping from his features he looked like some very witch just raised from the grave . 
The rest ran yelling up the hill to the village , where each broke at once for his mother's tepee . 
As all the tents in a Dakota camping circle face the center , the boys as they came tearing into camp were in plain view from the tepees . 
Hearing the screaming , every woman in camp ran to her tepee door to see what had happened . 
Brave dashed into his mother's tepee , scaring her out of her wits . 
Dropping pots and kettles , she tumbled out of the tent to run screaming with the rest . 
Nor would a single villager come near poor little Brave until he had gone down to the lake and washed himself . 
THE BOUND CHILDREN There once lived a widow with two children the elder a daughter and the younger a son . 
The widow went in mourning for her husband a long time . 
She cut off her hair , let her dress lie untidy on her body and kept her face unpainted and unwashed . 
There lived in the same village a great chief . 
He had one son just come old enough to marry . 
The chief had it known that he wished his son to take a wife , and all of the young women in the village were eager to marry the young man . 
However , he was pleased with none of them . 
Now the widow thought , I am tired of mourning for my husband and caring for my children . 
Perhaps if I lay aside my mourning and paint myself red , the chief's son may marry me . 
So she slipped away from her two children , stole down to the river and made a bathing place thru the ice . 
When she had washed away all signs of mourning , she painted and decked herself and went to the chief's tepee . 
When his son saw her , he loved her , and a feast was made in honor of her wedding . 
When the widow's daughter found herself forsaken , she wept bitterly . 
After a day or two she took her little brother in her arms and went to the tepee of an old woman who lived at one end of the village . 
The old woman's tumble down tepee was of bark and her dress and clothing was of old smoke dried tent cover . 
But she was kind to the two waifs and took them in willingly . 
The little girl was eager to find her mother . 
The old woman said to her I suspect your mother has painted her face red . 
Do not try to find her . 
If the chief's son marries her she will not want to be burdened with you . 
The old woman was right . 
The girl went down to the river , and sure enough found a hole cut in the ice and about it lay the filth that the mother had washed from her body . 
The girl gathered up the filth and went on . 
By and by she came to a second hole in the ice . 
Here too was filth , but not so much as at the previous place . 
At the third hole the ice was clean . 
The girl knew now that her mother had painted her face red . 
She went at once to the chief's tepee , raised the door flap and went in . 
There sat her mother with the chief's son at their wedding feast . 
The girl walked up to her mother and hurled the filth in her mother's face . 
There , she cried , you who forsake your helpless children and forget your husband , take that ! And at once her mother became a hideous old woman . 
The girl then went back to the lodge of the old woman , leaving the camp in an uproar . 
The chief soon sent some young warriors to seize the girl and her brother , and they were brought to his tent . 
He was furious with anger . 
Let the children be bound with lariats wrapped about their bodies and let them be left to starve . 
Our camp will move on , he said . 
The chief's son did not put away his wife , hoping she might be cured in some way and grow young again . 
They will tie you up like a corpse . 
And so , before the camp started , the old woman came to the place where the two children were bound . 
She had in her hand a knife bound to the end of a stick which she used as a lance . 
She stood over the children and cried aloud You wicked girl , who have shamed your own mother , you deserve all the punishment that is given you . 
But after all I do not want to let you lie and starve . 
Far better kill you at once and have done with it ! and with her stick she stabbed many times , as if to kill , but she was really cutting the rope . 
The camp moved on but the children lay on the ground until noon the next day . 
Then they began to squirm about . 
Soon the girl was free , and she then set loose her little brother . 
They went at once to the old woman's hut where they found the flint and steel and the packs of dried meat . 
The girl made her brother a bow and arrows and with these he killed birds and other small game . 
The boy grew up a great hunter . 
They built three great tepees , in one of which were stored rows upon rows of parfleche bags of dried meat . 
Let me have her for a wife . 
Then you and I will be brothers and hunt together . 
The girl's brother went home and told her what the young stranger had said . 
Brother , I do not care to marry , she answered . 
I am now happy with you . 
But you will be yet happier married , he answered , and the young stranger is of no mean family , as one can see by his dress and manners . 
Very well , I will do as you wish , she said . 
So the stranger came into the tepee and was the girl's husband . 
One day as they were in their tent , a crow flew overhead , calling out loudly , Kaw , Kaw , They who forsook the children have no meat . 
The girl and her husband and brother looked up at one another . 
What can it mean ? they asked . 
He is a good judge and he will know . 
And I will get ready a good dinner for him , for Unktomi is always hungry , added the young wife . 
When Unktomi came , his yellow mouth opened with delight at the fine feast spread for him . 
After he had eaten he was told what the crow had said . 
The crow means , said Unktomi , that the villagers and chief who bound and deserted you are in sad plight . 
They have hardly anything to eat and are starving . 
When the girl heard this she made a bundle of choicest meat and called the crow . 
Take this to the starving villagers , she bade him . 
He took the bundle in his beak , flew away to the starving village and dropped the bundle before the chief's tepee . 
The chief came out and the crow called loudly Kaw , Kaw ! The children who were forsaken have much meat those who forsook them have none . 
What can he mean , cried the astonished villagers . 
Let us send for Unktomi , said one , he is a great judge he will tell us . 
They divided the bundle of meat among the starving people , saving the biggest piece for Unktomi . 
When Unktomi had come and eaten , the villagers told him of the crow and asked what the bird's words meant . 
He means , said Unktomi , that the two children whom you forsook have tepees full of dried meat enough for all the village . 
The villagers were filled with astonishment at this news . 
To find whether or not it was true , the chief called seven young men and sent them out to see . 
The next day he loaded all seven with packs of meat , saying Take this meat to the villagers and lead them hither . 
After a few days the camp arrived . 
The young woman's mother opened the door and ran in crying Oh , my dear daughter , how glad I am to see you . 
But the daughter received her coldly and gave her the bundle of dried liver to eat . 
THE SIGNS OF CORN When corn is to be planted by the Indians , it is the work of the women folk to see to the sorting and cleaning of the best seed . 
It is also the women's work to see to the planting . 
After the best seed has been selected , the planter measures the corn , lays down a layer of hay , then a layer of corn . 
While the corn is hanging in the sun , the ground is being prepared to receive it . 
Having finished the task of preparing the ground , the woman takes down her seed corn which has by this time sprouted . 
Then she proceeds to plant the corn . 
Before she plants the first hill , she extends her hoe heavenwards and asks the Great Spirit to bless her work , that she may have a good yield . 
After her prayer she takes four kernels and plants one at the north , one at the south , one at the east and one at the west sides of the first hill . 
This is asking the Great Spirit to give summer rain and sunshine to bring forth a good crop . 
For different growths of the corn , the women have an interpretation as to the character of the one who planted it . 
If the rows on the ears of corn are irregular and broken , the planter is considered careless and unthoughtful . 
Also disorderly and slovenly about her house and person . 
So old will they be that like the corn , their teeth will be few and far between . 
When a stalk bears a great many nubbins , or small ears growing around the large one , it is a sign that the planter is from a large and respectable family . 
STORY OF THE RABBITS The Rabbit nation were very much depressed in spirits on account of being run over by all other nations . 
They , being very obedient to their chief , obeyed all his orders to the letter . 
Even the chirp of a little cricket would send them all scampering to their dens . 
One day they held a great council , and after talking over everything for some time , finally left it to their medicine man to decide . 
The medicine man arose and said My friends , we are of no use on this earth . 
This they decided to do so going to the lake they were about to jump in , when they heard a splashing in the water . 
Looking , they saw a lot of frogs jumping into the lake . 
We will not drown ourselves , said the medicine man , we have found a nation who are afraid of us . 
It is the frog nation . 
Had it not been for the frogs we would have had no rabbits , as the whole nation would have drowned themselves and the rabbit race would have been extinct . 
HOW THE RABBIT LOST HIS TAIL Once upon a time there were two brothers , one a great Genie and the other a rabbit . 
Like all genie , the older could change himself into any kind of an animal , bird , fish , cloud , thunder and lightning , or in fact anything that he desired . 
was very mischievous and was continually getting into all kinds of trouble . 
His older brother was kept busy getting Rabbit out of all kinds of scrapes . 
When Rabbit had attained his full growth he wanted to travel around and see something of the world . 
, so be very careful , and keep out of trouble as much as possible . 
Rabbit started out and the first day he came to a very high house , outside of which stood a very high pine tree . 
So high was the tree that Rabbit could hardly see the top . 
Outside the door , on an enormous stool , sat a very large giant fast asleep . 
strung up his bow , and , taking an arrow from his quiver , said I want to see how big this man is , so I guess I will wake him up . 
So saying he moved over to one side and took good aim , and shot the giant upon the nose . 
This stung like fire and awoke the giant , who jumped up , crying Who had the audacity to shoot me on the nose ? I did , said Rabbit . 
The giant , hearing a voice , looked all around , but saw nothing , until he looked down at the corner of the house , and there sat a rabbit . 
I had hiccoughs this morning and thought that I was going to have a good big meal , and here is nothing but a toothful . 
I guess you won't make a toothful of me , said Rabbit , I am as strong as you , though I am little . 
We will see , said the giant . 
He went into the house and came out , bringing a hammer that weighed many tons . 
Now , Mr. Rabbit , we will see who can throw this hammer over the top of that tree . 
Get something harder to do , said Rabbit . 
Well , we will try this first , said the giant . 
With that he grasped the hammer in both hands , swung it three times around his head and sent it spinning thru the air . 
Up , up , it went , skimming the top of the tree , and came down , shaking the ground and burying itself deep into the earth . 
Now , said the giant , if you don't accomplish this same feat , I am going to swallow you at one mouthful . 
Rabbit said , I always sing to my brother before I attempt things like this . 
So he commenced singing and calling his brother . 
Cinye ! Cinye ! he sang . 
Stop him and you can go free , said the giant . 
Rabbit waved his paws and the cloud disappeared . 
From this place Rabbit continued on his trip towards the west . 
The next day , while passing thru a deep forest , he thought he heard some one moaning , as though in pain . 
He stopped and listened soon the wind blew and the moaning grew louder . 
Following the direction from whence came the sound , he soon discovered a man stripped of his clothing , and caught between two limbs of a tall elm tree . 
When the wind blew the limbs would rub together and squeeze the man , who would give forth the mournful groans . 
My , you have a fine place up there . 
You can come down and I will take your place . 
Very well , said the man . 
Take off your clothes and come up . 
I will fasten you in the limbs and you can have all the fun you want . 
Rabbit disrobed and climbed up . 
The man placed him between the limbs and slid down the tree . 
He hurriedly got into Rabbit's clothes , and just as he had completed his toilet , the wind blew very hard . 
Rabbit was nearly crazy with pain , and screamed and cried . 
Then he began to cry Cinye , Cinye . 
Call your brother as much as you like , he can never find me . 
So saying the man disappeared in the forest . 
Scarcely had he disappeared , when the brother arrived , and seeing Rabbit in the tree , said Which way did he go ? Rabbit pointed the direction taken by the man . 
After Rabbit got his clothes back on , his brother gave him a good scolding , and wound up by saying I want you to be more careful in the future . 
Rabbit was wondering who could be living here when the door slowly opened and an old man appeared in the doorway , bearing a tripe water pail in his right hand . 
In his left hand he held a string which was fastened to the inside of the house . 
He kept hold of the string and came slowly down to the river . 
When he got to the water he stooped down and dipped the pail into it and returned to the house , still holding the string for guidance . 
Soon he reappeared holding on to another string , and , following this one , went to a large pile of wood and returned to the house with it . 
Rabbit wanted to see if the old man would come out again , but he came out no more . 
Seeing smoke ascending from the mud chimney , he thought he would go over and see what the old man was doing . 
He knocked at the door , and a weak voice bade him enter . 
He noticed that the old man was cooking dinner . 
, you must have a nice time , living here alone . 
I see that you have everything handy . 
You can get wood and water , and that is all you have to do . 
How do you get your provisions ? The wolves bring my meat , the mice my rice and ground beans , and the birds bring me the cherry leaves for my tea . 
Yet it is a hard life , as I am all alone most of the time and have no one to talk to , and besides , I am blind . 
Say , grandfather , said Rabbit , let us change places . 
I think I would like to live here . 
If we exchange clothes , said the other , you will become old and blind , while I will assume your youth and good looks . 
I don't care for youth and good looks , said Rabbit , let us make the change . 
They changed clothes , and Rabbit became old and blind , whilst the old man became young and handsome . 
Well , I must go , said the man . 
He went out and cutting the strings close to the door , ran off laughing . 
You will get enough of your living alone , you crazy boy , and saying this he ran into the woods . 
Rabbit thought he would like to get some fresh water and try the string paths so that he would get accustomed to it . 
He bumped around the room and finally found the tripe water bucket . 
He took hold of the string and started out . 
Then it was that he commenced again to cry , Cinye ! Cinye ! . 
Soon his brother arrived , and asked which way the old man had gone . 
I don't know , said Rabbit , I couldn't see which path he took , as I was blind . 
The genie called the birds , and they came flying from every direction . 
As fast as they arrived the brother asked them if they had seen the man whom he had placed here for punishment , but none had seen him . 
The owl came last , and when asked if he had seen the man , he said hoo hoo . 
The man who lived here , said the brother . 
Last night I was hunting mice in the woods south of here and I saw a man sleeping beneath a plum tree . 
I thought it was your brother , Rabbit , so I didn't awaken him , said the owl . 
You will always have the fine cool nights to hunt your food . 
You other birds can hunt your food during the hot daylight . 
The brother flew to the woods and brought the man back and cut the strings short , and said to him Now you can get a taste of what you gave my brother . 
To Rabbit he said I ought not to have helped you this time . 
Rabbit started to return to his home . 
When he had nearly completed his journey he came to a little creek , and being thirsty took a good long drink . 
While he was drinking he heard a noise as though a wolf or cat was scratching the earth . 
Looking up to a hill which overhung the creek , he saw four wolves , with their tails intertwined , pulling with all their might . 
As Rabbit came up to them one pulled loose , and Rabbit saw that his tail was broken . 
Let me pull tails with you . 
I have lost my tail , cried Rabbit . 
The genie came and seeing his brother Rabbit's tail missing , said You look better without a tail anyway . 
From that time on rabbits have had no tails . 
UNKTOMI AND THE ARROWHEADS There were once upon a time two young men who were very great friends , and were constantly together . 
One was a very thoughtful young man , the other very impulsive , who never stopped to think before he committed an act . 
One day these two friends were walking along , telling each other of their experiences in love making . 
They ascended a high hill , and on reaching the top , heard a ticking noise as if small stones or pebbles were being struck together . 
Looking around they discovered a large spider sitting in the midst of a great many flint arrowheads . 
The spider was busily engaged making the flint rocks into arrow heads . 
They looked at the spider , but he never moved , but continued hammering away on a piece of flint which he had nearly completed into another arrowhead . 
Let's hit him , said the thoughtless one . 
Oh , you are afraid , said the first young man . 
just watch me hit him . 
So saying , he picked up an arrowhead and throwing it at Unktomi , hit him on the side . 
They started down the hill , when suddenly the one who had hit Unktomi took a severe fit of coughing . 
He coughed and coughed , and finally small particles of blood came from his mouth . 
The blood kept coming thicker and in great gushes . 
Finally it came so thick and fast that the man could not get his breath and fell upon the ground dead . 
The thoughtful young man , seeing that his friend was no more , hurried to the village and reported what had happened . 
The relatives and friends hurried to the hill , and sure enough , there lay the thoughtless young man still and cold in death . 
They held a council and sent for the chief of the Unktomi tribe . 
When he heard what had happened , he told the council that he could do nothing to his Unktomi , as it had only defended itself . 
Said he My friends , seeing that your tribe was running short of arrowheads , I set a great many of my tribe to work making flint arrowheads for you . 
My man could not sit and take this insult , so as the young man walked away the Unktomi shot him with a very tiny arrowhead . 
This produced a hemorrhage , which caused his death . 
So now , my friends , if you will fill and pass the peace pipe , we will part good friends and my tribe shall always furnish you with plenty of flint arrowheads . 
So saying , Unktomi Tanka finished his peace smoke and returned to his tribe . 
had the respect of this tribe , and was never after disturbed in his work of making arrowheads . 
THE BEAR AND THE RABBIT HUNT BUFFALO Once upon a time there lived as neighbors , a bear and a rabbit . 
The rabbit was a good shot , and the bear being very clumsy could not use the arrow to good advantage . 
The bear was very unkind to the rabbit . 
Every morning , the bear would call over to the rabbit and say Take your bow and arrows and come with me to the other side of the hill . 
A large herd of buffalo are grazing there , and I want you to shoot some of them for me , as my children are crying for meat . 
The rabbit , fearing to arouse the bear's anger by refusing , consented , and went with the bear , and shot enough buffalo to satisfy the hungry family . 
Indeed , he shot and killed so many that there was lots of meat left after the bear and his family had loaded themselves , and packed all they could carry home . 
The poor rabbit could not even taste the blood from the butchering , as the bear would throw earth on the blood and dry it up . 
Poor Rabbit would have to go home hungry after his hard day's work . 
The bear was the father of five children . 
The youngest boy was very kind to the rabbit . 
The mother bear , knowing that her youngest was a very hearty eater , always gave him an extra large piece of meat . 
Baby bear never forgot his friend Rabbit . 
Papa bear often wondered why his baby would go outside after each meal . 
He grew suspicious and asked the baby where he had been . 
Oh , I always play ball outside , around the house , and when I get tired playing I eat up my meat ball and then come in . 
The baby bear was too cunning to let papa bear know that he was keeping his friend rabbit from starving to death . 
Nevertheless , papa bear suspected baby and said Baby , I think you go over to the rabbit's after every meal . 
The three older brothers were very unkind to baby bear , but the fourth one always took baby's part , and was always kind to his baby brother . 
Rabbit was getting tired of being ordered and bullied around by papa bear . 
He puzzled his brain to scheme some way of getting even with Mr. Bear for abusing him so much . 
He studied all night long , but no scheme worth trying presented itself . 
Early one morning Mr. Bear presented himself at Rabbit's door . 
Say , Rabbit , my meat is all used up , and there is a fine herd of buffalo grazing on the hillside . 
Get your bow and arrows and come with me . 
I want you to shoot some of them for me . 
Very well , said Rabbit , and he went and killed six buffalo for Bear . 
The bear was very watchful lest the rabbit get something to eat . 
Despite bear's watchfulness , a small clot of blood rolled past and behind the bear's feet . 
At once Rabbit seized the clot and hid it in his bosom . 
Very badly disappointed , he lay down on his floor and gazed up into the chimney hole . 
Disgusted with the way things had turned out , he grabbed up the blood clot and threw it up through the hole . 
Scarcely had it hit the ground when he heard the voice of a baby crying , Ate ! Ate ! . 
He went outside and there he found a big baby boy . 
He took the baby into his house and threw him out through the hole again . 
This time the boy was large enough to say Ate , Ate , he cun sin lo . 
But nevertheless , he threw him up and out again . 
On going out the third time , there stood a handsome youth smiling at him . 
, and saying My son , I want you to be a good , honest , straightforward man . 
Now , I have in my possession a fine outfit , and you , my son , shall wear it . 
, worked with porcupine quills . 
Also a pair of red leggings worked with beads . 
Moccasins worked with colored hair . 
A fine otter skin robe . 
White weasel skins to intertwine with his beautiful long black locks . 
A magnificent center eagle feather . 
A rawhide covered bow , accompanied by a quiver full of flint arrowheads . 
The rabbit , having dressed his son in all the latest finery , sat back and gazed long and lovingly at his handsome son . 
Instinctively Rabbit felt that his son had been sent him for the purpose of being instrumental in the downfall of Mr. Bear . 
The morning following the arrival of Rabbit's son , Mr. Bear again presents himself at the door , crying out You lazy , ugly rabbit , get up and come out here . 
I want you to shoot some more buffalo for me . 
Who is this , who speaks so insultingly to you , father ? asked the son . 
The young man was anxious to meet Mr. Bear but Rabbit advised him to wait a little until he and Bear had gone to the hunt . 
Seeing a strange shadow on the ground beside him , Mr. Bear looked up and gazed into the fearless eyes of rabbit's handsome son . 
Who is this ? asked Mr. Bear of poor little Rabbit . 
I don't know , answered Rabbit . 
Who are you ? asked the bear of Rabbit's son . 
Where did you come from ? The rabbit's son not replying , the bear spoke thus to him Get out of here , and get out quick , too . 
At this speech the rabbit's son became angered , and fastened an arrow to his bow and drove the arrow through the bear's heart . 
Then he turned on Mrs. Bear and served her likewise . 
During the melee , Rabbit shouted My son , my son , don't kill the two youngest . 
The baby has kept me from starving and the other one is good and kind to his baby brother . 
So the three older brothers who were unkind to their baby brother met a similar fate to that of their selfish parents . 
is the reason that bears travel only in pairs . 
He was never invited to take part in any of their sports nor was he ever asked to join any of the war parties . 
In the village lived an old man with an only daughter . 
Like the other family , they were poor , but the daughter was the belle of the tribe . 
She was the most sought after by the young men of the village , and warriors from tribes far distant came to press their suit at winning her for their bride . 
All to no purpose she had the same answer for them as she had for the young men of the village . 
allowed to make love to any young or old woman . 
He tried in vain to join some of the war parties , that he might get the chance to win his spurs as a warrior . 
To all his pleadings , came the same answer You are not fit to join a war party . 
Again , and again , he tried different parties , only to be made fun of and insulted . 
One night he sat in the poor tepee of his parents . 
He was in deep study and had nothing to say . 
His father , noticing his melancholy mood , asked him what had happened to cause him to be so quiet , as he was always of a jolly disposition . 
The son answered and said Father , I am going on the warpath alone . 
In vain I have tried to be a member of one of the war parties . 
To all of my pleadings I have got nothing but insults in return . 
But my son , you have no gun nor ammunition . 
Where can you get any and how can you get it ? We have nothing to buy one for you with , said the father . 
I don't need any weapons . 
I am going to bring back some of the enemies' horses , and I don't need a gun for that . 
the young man left the village and headed northwest , the direction always taken by the war parties . 
For ten days he traveled without seeing any signs of a camp . 
The evening of the tenth day , he reached a very high butte , thickly wooded at the summit . 
Looking closer , he noticed at a little distance from the main drove , a horse with a saddle on his back . 
This was the one that had neighed , as the drove drifted further away from him . 
He was tied by a long lariat to a large sage bush . 
Where could the rider be , he said to himself . 
As if in answer to his question , there appeared not more than twenty paces from him a middle aged man coming up through a deep ravine . 
So intent was he on locating the game he was trailing , that he never noticed the young man who sat like a statue not twenty paces away . 
Slowly and cautiously the man approached , and when he had advanced to within a few paces of the young man he stopped and turning around , stood looking down into the valley . 
This was the only chance that our brave young friend had . 
Being unarmed , he would stand no show if the enemy ever got a glimpse of him . 
and holding it securely in his right hand , gathered himself and gave a leap which landed him upon the unsuspecting enemy's shoulders . 
to lose his hold on his gun , and it went rattling down into the chasm , forty feet below . 
Down they came together , the young man on top . 
No sooner had they struck the ground than the enemy had out his knife , and then commenced a hand to hand duel . 
The enemy , having more experience , was getting the best of our young friend . 
Already our young friend had two ugly cuts , one across his chest and the other through his forearm . 
He was becoming weak from the loss of blood , and could not stand the killing pace much longer . 
Interlocked in each other's arms , the young man drove his knife into the enemy's side and when they struck the bottom the enemy relaxed his hold and straightened out stiff and dead . 
Being wounded severely he had to ride very slowly . 
All the long hours of the night he drove the horses towards his home village . 
They hastened to the camp and told what they had found . 
All day long they traveled on his trail , and just as the sun was sinking they caught sight of him driving the drove ahead over a high hill . 
Again they urged forth their tired ponies . 
The young man , looking back along the trail , saw some dark objects coming along , and , catching a fresh horse , drove the rest ahead at a great rate . 
over his trail and saw coming over a distant raise , two horsemen . 
These two undoubtedly rode the best ponies , as he saw nothing of the others . 
Finally they appeared on the butte from where he had looked back and saw them following him . 
For a long time they sat there scouring the country before them in hopes that they might see some signs of their stolen horses . 
Had they but known , their horses were but a few hundred yards from them , but the thick timber securely hid them from view . 
Finally one of them arose and pointed to the timber . 
Then leaving his horse in charge of his friend , he descended the butte and followed the trail of the drove to where they had entered the timber . 
Little did he think that he was standing on the brink of eternity . 
The young man hiding not more than a hundred yards from him could have shot him there where he stood , but wanting to play fair , he stepped into sight . 
When he did , the enemy took quick aim and fired . 
Had he taken more careful aim he might have killed our young friend , but his bullet whizzed harmlessly over the young man's head and buried itself in a tree . 
The young man took good aim and fired . 
The enemy threw up both hands and fell forward on his face . 
He awoke and going to the place where he had left the herd , he was glad to find them all there . 
He mounted his horse and started his herd homeward again . 
For two days he drove them , and on the evening of the second day he came in sight of the village . 
They advanced upon the supposed enemy . 
When they got close enough to discern a lone horseman driving this large herd , they surrounded the horses and lone warrior , and brought him triumphantly into camp . 
the horses were counted and the number counted up to one hundred and ten head . 
announced through the whole village that there would be a great war dance given in honor of the Lone Warrior . 
The whole village turned out and had a great war dance that was kept up three days and three nights . 
The two scalps which the young man had taken were tied to a pole which was placed in the center of the dance circle . 
At this dance , the Lone Warrior gave to each poor family five head of horses . 
And many times he had to tell his grandchildren the story of how he got the name of the Lone Warrior . 
Among the scouts was one who was noted for his bravery , and many were the brave acts he had performed . 
His name was Big Eagle . 
This man they selected to go to the lone camp and obtain the information for which they were waiting . 
Big Eagle was told to look carefully over the ground and select the best direction from which they should make the attack . 
The other six would await his return . 
He started on his mission , being careful not to make any noise . 
He stealthily approached the camp . 
He crawled up to the tepee door , and peeping through a small aperture , he saw three persons sitting inside . 
An elderly man and woman were sitting at the right of the fireplace , and a young woman at the seat of honor , opposite the door . 
Big Eagle had been married and his wife had died five winters previous to the time of this episode . 
He had never thought of marrying again , but when he looked upon this young woman he thought he was looking upon the face of his dead wife . 
Then he seated himself by the side of the girl , and thus they sat , no one speaking . 
The old man seemed to understand , and Big Eagle again made signs to him that a party were lying in wait just a short distance from his camp . 
Noiselessly they brought in the horses , and taking down the tent , they at once moved off in the direction from whence they had come . 
In the meantime , the hunting party , for this it was that Big Eagle had joined , made very good time in putting a good distance between themselves and the war party . 
All day they traveled , and when evening came they ascended a high hill , looking down into the valley on the other side . 
There stretched for two miles , along the banks of a small stream , an immense camp . 
The old man rode through the camp and drew up at the largest tepee in the village . 
Soon Big Eagle could see men gathering around the tepee . 
The crowd grew larger and larger , until the whole village had assembled at the large tepee . 
Finally they dispersed , and catching their horses , mounted and advanced to the hill on which Big Eagle and the two women were waiting . 
They formed a circle around them and slowly they returned to the village , singing and riding in a circle around them . 
When they arrived at the village they advanced to the large tepee , and motioned Big Eagle to the seat of honor in the tepee . 
In the village was a man who understood and spoke the Sioux language . 
He was sent for , and through him the oath of allegiance to the Crow tribe was taken by Big Eagle . 
This done he was presented with the girl to wife , and also with many spotted ponies . 
and the Crow people , to whom his wife belonged . 
In no battle with his own people would he carry any weapons , only a long willow coup stick , with which he struck the fallen Sioux . 
There was great feasting and dancing in honor of his return , and the horses were distributed among the needy ones of the village . 
Remaining at his home village for a year , he one day made up his mind to return to his wife's people . 
On his arrival at the village of the Crows , he found his father in law at the point of death . 
A few days later the old man died , and Big Eagle was appointed to fill the vacancy of chief made by the death of his father in law . 
Subsequently he took part in battles against his own people , and in the third battle was killed on the field . 
So , leaving the stream he had been following , he cut across country to the lake . 
But on pulling off his shirt one of his hands was held up so high that the turtles saw it and jumped into the lake with a great splash . 
The boy ran to the shore , but saw only bubbles coming up from the bottom . 
Directly the boy saw something coming to the surface , and soon it came up into sight . 
It was a little man , and soon others , by the hundreds , came up and swam about , splashing the water up into the air to a great height . 
So scared was the boy that he never stopped to gather up his clothes but ran home naked and fell into his grandmother's tent door . 
What is the trouble , grandchild , cried the old woman . 
But the boy could not answer . 
Did you see anything unnatural ? He shook his head , no . 
He made signs to the grandmother that his lungs were pressing so hard against his sides that he could not talk . 
He kept beating his side with his clenched hands . 
The grandmother went to the chief's tent and told what her grandson had seen . 
The chief sent two brave warriors to the lake to ascertain whether it was true or not . 
The warriors , too , were scared and hurried home , and in the council called on their return told what they had seen . 
The lake had formerly borne the name of Truth Lake , but from this time on was called Wicasa bde Man Lake . 
THE HERMIT , OR THE GIFT OF CORN In a deep forest , far from the villages of his people , lived a hermit . 
His tent was made of buffalo skins , and his dress was made of deer skin . 
Far from the haunts of any human being this old hermit was content to spend his days . 
All day long he would wander through the forest studying the different plants of nature and collecting precious roots , which he used as medicine . 
Awakening with a start , he noticed a dark object and an arm was extended to him , holding in its hand a flint pointed arrow . 
, I will come , said the old hermit . 
Wherewith he arose , wrapped his robe about him and followed . 
Outside the door he stopped and looked around , but could see no signs of the dark object . 
Whoever you are , or whatever you be , wait for me , as I don't know where to go to find your house , said the hermit . 
Not an answer did he receive , nor could he hear any noises as though anyone was walking through the brush . 
Re entering his tent he retired and was soon fast asleep . 
The next night the same thing occurred again , and the hermit followed the object out , only to be left as before . 
He was very angry to think that anyone should be trying to make sport of him , and he determined to find out who this could be who was disturbing his night's rest . 
The next evening he cut a hole in the tent large enough to stick an arrow through , and stood by the door watching . 
There on the ground lay a little heap of corn , and from this little heap a small line of corn lay scattered along a path . 
This he followed far into the woods . 
When he came to a very small knoll the trail ended . 
At the end of the trail was a large circle , from which the grass had been scraped off clean . 
The corn trail stops at the edge of this circle , said the old man , so this must be the home of whoever it was that invited me . 
He took his bone knife and hatchet and proceeded to dig down into the center of the circle . 
When he had got down to the length of his arm , he came to a sack of dried meat . 
From this hole in the sack the corn was scattered along the trail , which guided the old man to the cache . 
From this the hermit taught the tribes how to keep their provisions when traveling and were overloaded . 
He explained to them how they should dig a pit and put their provisions into it and cover them with earth . 
The old hermit was also thanked as the discoverer of corn , which had never been known to the Indians until discovered by the old hermit . 
THE MYSTERIOUS BUTTE A young man was once hunting and came to a steep hill . 
The east side of the hill suddenly dropped off to a very steep bank . 
He stood on this bank , and at the base he noticed a small opening . 
On going down to examine it more closely , he found it was large enough to admit a horse or buffalo . 
On either side of the door were figures of different animals engraved into the wall . 
Upon hearing this the chief selected four of his most daring warriors to go with this young man and investigate and ascertain whether the young man was telling the truth or not . 
The five proceeded to the butte , and at the entrance the young man refused to go inside , as the figures on either side of the entrance had been changed . 
They continued on , however , feeling their way along the walls . 
They finally found an entrance that was so narrow that they had to squeeze into it sideways . 
They felt their way around the walls and found another entrance , so low down that they had to crawl on their hands and knees to go through into the next chamber . 
On entering the last chamber they found a very sweet odor coming from the opposite direction . 
Feeling around and crawling on their hands and knees , they discovered a hole in the floor leading downward . 
From this hole came up the sweet odor . 
They hurriedly held a council , and decided to go no further , but return to the camp and report what they had found . 
On getting to the first chamber one of the young men said I am going to take these bracelets to show that we are telling the truth . 
No , said the other three , this being the abode of some Great Spirit , you may have some accident befall you for taking what is not yours . 
Ah ! You fellows are like old women , said he , taking a fine bracelet and encircling his left wrist with it . 
When they reached the village they reported what they had seen . 
The young man exhibited the bracelet to prove that it was the truth they had told . 
Shortly after this , these four young men were out fixing up traps for wolves . 
They would raise one end of a heavy log and place a stick under , bracing up the log . 
A large piece of meat was placed about five feet away from the log and this space covered with poles and willows . 
At the place where the upright stick was put , a hole was left open , large enough to admit the body of a wolf . 
He could not release himself and called loud and long for assistance . 
His friends , hearing his call , came to his assistance , and on lifting the log found the young man's wrist broken . 
Now , said they , you have been punished for taking the wristlet out of the chamber of the mysterious butte . 
He returned to the camp and reported what he had seen . 
All around the figure he saw marks of buffalo hoofs , also marked upon the wall . 
The next day an enormous herd of buffalo came near to the village , and a great many were killed . 
The women were busy cutting up and drying the meat . 
At one camp was more meat than at any other . 
Ever after that the Indians paid weekly visits to this butte , and thereon would read the signs that were to govern their plans . 
This butte was always considered the prophet of the tribe . 
THE WONDERFUL TURTLE Near to a Chippewa village lay a large lake , and in this lake there lived an enormous turtle . 
This was no ordinary turtle , as he would often come out of his home in the lake and visit with his Indian neighbors . 
He paid the most of his visits to the head chief , and on these occasions would stay for hours , smoking and talking with him . 
One day there came a great misunderstanding between different parties of the tribe , and so excited became both sides that it threatened to cause bloodshed . 
The chief was unable to decide for either faction , so he said , I will call Mr. Turtle . 
He will judge for you . 
Sending for the turtle , the chief vacated his seat for the time being , until the turtle should hear both sides , and decide which was in the right . 
The turtle came , and taking the chief's seat , listened very attentively to both sides , and thought long before he gave his decision . 
After thinking long and studying each side carefully , he came to the conclusion to decide in favor of both . 
This would not cause any hard feelings . 
Therefore , I will say that you both are equally in the right . 
When they heard this decision , they saw that the turtle was right , and gave him a long cheer for the wisdom displayed by him . 
The whole tribe saw that had it not been for this wise decision there would have been a great shedding of blood in the tribe . 
So they voted him as their judge , and the chief , being so well pleased with him , gave to him his only daughter in marriage . 
It was all to no purpose . 
She would accept no one , only him whom her father would select for her . 
The turtle was very homely , but as he was prudent and wise , the father chose him , and she accepted him . 
The young men of the tribe were very jealous , but their jealousy was all to no purpose . 
The young men would make sport of the chief's son in law . 
I was on the Chippewa side and some of the Sioux were pressing five of us , and were gaining on us very fast . 
Coming to some high grass , I threw myself down flat on my face , and pressed my stomach close to the ground , so the pursuers could not see me . 
They passed me and killed the four I was with . 
After they had gone back , I arose and lo ! my stomach was as you see it now . 
So hard had I pressed to the ground that it would not assume its original shape again . 
After he had explained the cause of his deformity to them , they said The Turtle is brave . 
We will bother him no more . 
Shortly after this the Sioux made an attack upon the Chippewas , and every one deserted the village . 
The Turtle could not travel as fast as the rest and was left behind . 
It being an unusually hot day in the fall , the Turtle grew very thirsty and sleepy . 
He had his sleep out and arose to the top . 
Swimming to shore he found it was summer . 
He had slept all winter . 
The birds were singing , and the green grass and leaves gave forth a sweet odor . 
He crawled out and started out looking for the Chippewa camp . 
He came upon the camp several days after he had left his winter quarters , and going around in search of his wife , found her at the extreme edge of the village . 
She was nursing her baby , and as he asked to see it , she showed it to him . 
THE MAN AND THE OAK There once lived a Sioux couple who had two children , a boy and a girl . 
Every fall this family would move away from the main camp and take up their winter quarters in a grove of timber some distance from the principal village . 
The reason they did this was that he was a great hunter and where a village was located for the winter the game was usually very scarce . 
Therefore , he always camped by himself in order to have an abundance of game adjacent to his camp . 
All summer he had roamed around following the tribe to wherever their fancy might take them . 
During their travels this particular year there came to the village a strange girl who had no relatives there . 
She addressed her as sister , and the parents , on account of their daughter , addressed her as daughter . 
The young man had a tent by himself , and it was always kept nice and clean by his sister , who was very much attached to him . 
I will carry his supper to him . 
Her friend , whom she addressed as sister , would never go into the young man's tent . 
Along towards spring there came one night into the young man's tent a woman . 
She sat down by the door and kept her face covered so that it was hidden from view . 
She sat there a long time and finally arose and went away . 
The young man could not imagine who this could be . 
He knew that it was a long distance from the village and could not make out where the woman could have come from . 
The next night the woman came again and this time she came a little nearer to where the young man lay . 
She sat down and kept her face covered as before . 
She sat there for a long time and then arose and departed . 
He was very much puzzled over the actions of this woman and decided to ascertain on her next visit who she was . 
The third night the woman came again and sat down still nearer his bed . 
She held her blanket open just a trifle , and he , catching up one of the embers , flashed it in her face jumping up she ran hurriedly out of the tent . 
The next morning he noticed that his adopted sister kept her face hidden with her blanket . 
She chanced to drop her blanket while in the act of pouring out some soup , and when she did so he noticed a large burned spot on her cheek . 
He felt so sorry for what he had done that he could eat no breakfast , but went outside and lay down under an oak tree . 
In vain were the best medicine men of the tribe sent for . 
Their medicine was of no avail . 
They said If the tree is cut down the young man will die . 
The sister was wild with grief , and extending her hands to the sun , she cried Great Spirit , relieve my suffering brother . 
Any one who releases him I will marry , be he young , old , homely or deformed . 
Several days after the young man had met with the mishap , there came to the tent a very tall man , who had a bright light encircling his body . 
Where is the girl who promised to marry any one who would release her brother ? I am the one , said the young man's sister . 
I am the all powerful lightning and thunder . 
I see all things and can kill at one stroke a whole tribe . 
When I make my voice heard the rocks shake loose and go rattling down the hillsides . 
The brave warriors cower shivering under some shelter at the sound of my voice . 
The girl whom you had adopted as your sister was a sorceress . 
She bewitched your brother because he would not let her make love to him . 
I will now release your brother . 
So saying he placed his hand on the tree and instantly it crumbled to ashes . 
The young man arose , and thanked his deliverer . 
Then they saw a great black cloud approaching , and the man said Make ready , we shall go home on that cloud . 
STORY OF THE TWO YOUNG FRIENDS There were once in a very large Indian camp two little boys who were fast friends . 
, was the son of a very rich family , and was always dressed in the finest of clothes of Indian costume . 
, was an orphan and lived with his old grandmother , who was very destitute , and consequently could not dress the boy in fine raiment . 
So poorly was the boy dressed that the boys who had good clothes always tormented him and would not play in his company . 
The well dressed he found were vain and conceited . 
The fairly well dressed he found selfish and spiteful . 
The poorly clad he found to be generous and truthful , and from all of them he chose Hake for his Koda . 
It was a lucky day for Hake when he was chosen for the friend and companion of Chaske . 
The orphan boy was taken to the lodge of his friend's parents and dressed up in fine clothes and moccasins . 
Chaske and Hake were inseparable . 
Where one was seen the other was not far distant . 
They played , hunted , trapped , ate and slept together . 
They would spend most of the long summer days hunting in the forests . 
Time went on and these two fast friends grew up to be fine specimens of their tribe . 
When they became the age to select a sweetheart they would go together and make love to a girl . 
Each helping the other to win the affection of the one of his choice . 
Chaske loved a girl who was the daughter of an old medicine man . 
The girl's choice was Chaske's friend Hake . 
Although he had never made love to her for himself , he had always used honeyed words to her and was always loud in his praises for his friend Chaske . 
One night the two friends had been to see the girl , and on their return Chaske was very quiet , having nothing to say and seemingly in deep study . 
Has the girl said anything to you to make you feel thus ? Wait , friend , said Chaske , until morning , and then I will know how to answer your inquiry . 
Don't ask me anything more tonight , as my heart is having a great battle with my brain . 
Hake bothered his friend no more that night , but he could not sleep . 
could have said to Chaske to bring such a change over him . 
Hake never suspected that he himself was the cause of his friend's sorrow , for never did he have a thought that it was himself that Pretty Feather loved . 
The next morning after they had eaten breakfast , Chaske proposed that they should go out on the prairies , and see if they would have the good luck to kill an antelope . 
Hake went out and got the band of horses , of which there were over a hundred . 
They selected the fleetest two in the herd , and taking their bows and arrows , mounted and rode away towards the south . 
Hake was overjoyed to note the change in his friend . 
His oldtime jollity had returned . 
After each had finished packing the kill on his horse , Chaske said Let us sit down and have a smoke before we start back . 
Besides , I have something to tell you which I can tell better sitting still than I can riding along . 
Never have I known you to deceive me nor tell me an untruth . 
I have no brothers or sisters . 
The only brother's love I know is yours . 
The only sister's love I will know will be Pretty Feather's , for brother , last night she told me she loved none but you and would marry you and you only . 
So , brother , I am going to take my antelope to my sister in law's tent and deposit it at her door . 
Then she will know that her wish will be fulfilled . 
Their pipes being smoked out they mounted their ponies and Chaske started up in a clear , deep voice the beautiful love song of Pretty Feather and his friend Hake . 
Such is the love between two friends , who claim to be as brothers among the Indians . 
Chaske gave up his love of a beautiful woman for a man who was in fact no relation to him . 
Hake and his friend sought out all of the old warriors and gained all the information they desired . 
Every evening Hake visited his intended wife and many happy evenings they spent together . 
The morning of the tenth day the two friends left the village and turned their faces toward the west where the camps of the enemy are more numerous than in any other direction . 
They were not mounted and therefore traveled slowly , so it took about ten days of walking before they saw any signs of the enemy . 
The old warriors had told them of a thickly wooded creek within the enemies' bounds . 
, and the enemies conquer the travelers every time . 
The friends had extra moccasins with them and one extra blanket , as it was late in the fall and the nights were very cold . 
They broke camp early one morning and walked all day . 
Along towards evening , the clouds which had been threatening all day , hurriedly opened their doors and down came the snowflakes thick and fast . 
Just before it started snowing the friends had noticed a dark line about two miles in advance of them . 
I noticed it also , said Hake . 
We might as well entertain a ghost all night as to lie out on these open prairies and freeze to death . 
So they decided to run the risk and stay in the sheltering woods of Ghost Creek . 
They hunted and found a place where the brush was very thick and the grass very tall . 
The stranger drew the plate towards him , and commenced eating ravenously . 
He soon finished his meal and handed the dish and cup back . 
He had not uttered a word so far . 
Chaske filled the pipe and handed it to him . 
For such cowards as these I have always found a grave . 
They never returned to their homes . 
Just over this range of hills north of us , a large village is encamped for the winter . 
In that camp is the man who laid in ambush and shot me , killing me before I could get a chance to defend myself . 
I want that man's scalp , because he has been the cause of my wanderings for a great many years . 
This is why I have tried every party who have camped here to listen to me , but as I have said before , they were all cowards . 
Now , I ask you two brave young men , will you do this for me ? We will , said the friends in one voice . 
Thank you , my boys . 
In the morning there will pass by in plain sight of here a large party . 
They will chase the buffalo over on that flat . 
After they have passed an old man leading a black horse and riding a white one will come by on the trail left by the hunting party . 
He will be driving about a hundred horses , which he will leave over in the next ravine . 
He will then proceed to the hunting grounds and get meat from the different hunters . 
After the hunters have all gone home he will come last , singing the praises of the ones who gave him the meat . 
This man you must kill and scalp , as he is the one I want killed . 
Then take the white and black horse and each mount and go to the hunting grounds . 
There you will see two of the enemy riding about picking up empty shells . 
As soon as I disappear , it will start in snowing . 
When morning came , the two friends sat in the thick brush and watched a large party pass by their hiding place . 
So near were they that the friends could hear them laughing and talking . 
The horse the old man was riding was as white as snow . 
The friends crawled to a little brush covered hill and watched the chase after the shooting had ceased . 
The friends knew it would not be long before the return of the party , so they crawled back to their camp and hurriedly ate some pounded meat and drank some cherry tea . 
Then they took down their robe and rolled it up and got everything in readiness for a hurried flight with the horses . 
Scarcely had they got everything in readiness when the party came by , singing their song of the chase . 
When they had all gone the friends crawled down to the trail and lay waiting for the old man . 
Soon they heard him singing . 
Nearer and nearer came the sounds of the song until at last at a bend in the road , the old man came into view . 
The two friends arose and advanced to meet him . 
On he came still singing . 
No doubt he mistook them for some of his own people . 
When he was very close to them they each stepped to either side of him and before he could make an outcry they pierced his cowardly old heart with two arrows . 
He had hardly touched the ground when they both struck him with their bows , winning first and second honors by striking an enemy after he has fallen . 
Chaske having won first honors , asked his friend to perform the scalping deed , which he did . 
And wanting to be sure that the spirit would get full revenge , took the whole scalp , ears and all , and tied it to his belt . 
The buffalo beef which the old man had packed upon the black horse , they threw on the top of the old man . 
Quickly mounting the two horses , they hastened out across the long flat towards the hunting grounds . 
When they came in sight of the grounds there they saw two men riding about from place to place . 
Chaske took after the one on the right , Hake the one on the left . 
When they came close to the enemy they strung their arrows onto the bowstring and drove them through the two fleeing hunters . 
As they were falling they tried to shoot , but being greatly exhausted , their bullets whistled harmlessly over the heads of the two friends . 
They scalped the two enemies and took their guns and ammunition , also secured the two horses and started for the high knoll . 
When they arrived at the place , there stood the spirit . 
The friends did as the spirit had told them . 
For three days and three nights they rode steadily . 
On the fourth morning they came into their own boundary . 
From there on they rode more slowly , and let the band of horses rest and crop the tops of long grass . 
They would stop occasionally , and while one slept the other kept watch . 
Thus they got fairly well rested before they came in sight of where their camp had stood when they had left . 
All that they could see of the once large village was the lone tent of the great Medicine Man . 
They rode up on to a high hill and farther on towards the east they saw smoke from a great many tepees . 
They then knew that something had happened and that the village had moved away . 
I will take the black and the white horses with me and I will follow on later , after I have seen what the trouble is . 
Very well , my friend , I will do as you say , but I am afraid something has happened to Pretty Feather . 
Hake started on with the horses , driving them along the broad trail left by the hundreds of travois . 
Chaske made slowly towards the tepee , and stopping outside , stood and listened . 
Not a sound could he hear . 
The only living thing he saw was Pretty Feather's spotted horse tied to the side of the tent . 
Then he knew that she must be dead . 
He rode off into the thick brush and tied his two horses securely . 
Then he came back and entered the tepee . 
There on a bed of robes lay some one apparently dead . 
The body was wrapped in blankets and robes and bound around and around with parfleche ropes . 
These he carefully untied and unwound . 
Then he unwrapped the robes and blankets and when he uncovered the face , he saw , as he had expected to , the face of his lost love , Pretty Feather . 
As he sat gazing on her beautiful young face , his heart ached for his poor friend . 
He himself had loved and lost this beautiful maiden , and now his friend who had won her would have to suffer the untold grief which he had suffered . 
There it was again , only this time it was a long , deep drawn breath . 
He arose , got some water and taking a small stick slowly forced open her mouth and poured some into it . 
Then he took some sage , dipped it into the water and sprinkled a little on her head and face . 
He had opened three and was just opening the fourth , when a voice behind him asked What are you looking for ? Turning quickly , he saw Pretty Feather looking at him . 
We saw this tent and recognized it . 
At the foot of my bed you will find a piece of eagle fat . 
Build a fire and melt it for me . 
I will drink it and then we can go . 
Chaske quickly started a fire , got out the piece of fat and melted it . 
Then run and hide behind the trees . 
There are two of the enemy coming this way . 
Chaske hurriedly obeyed her orders , and had barely concealed himself behind the trees , when there came into view two of the enemy . 
So by making this detour they traveled directly towards where Chaske was concealed behind the tree . 
On they came , little thinking that one of them would in a few minutes be with his forefathers . 
Chaske noiselessly slipped a cartridge into the chamber of his gun , threw it into action and took deliberate aim at the smaller one's breast . 
A loud report rang out and the one he had aimed at threw up his arms and fell heavily forward , shot through the heart . 
Reloading quickly Chaske stepped out from behind the tree . 
He could easily have killed the other from his concealed position , but , being a brave young man , he wanted to give his opponent a fair chance . 
The other had unslung his gun and a duel was then fought between the two lone combatants . 
They would spring from side to side like two great cats . 
Then advance one or two steps and fire . 
Retreat a few steps , spring to one side and fire again . 
The bullets whistled past their heads , tore up the earth beneath their feet , and occasionally one would hit its mark , only to cause a flesh wound . 
Suddenly the enemy aimed his gun and threw it upon the ground . 
Chaske was too honorable and noble to kill an unarmed man , and especially one who had put up such a brave fight as had this man . 
Chaske advanced and picked up the empty gun . 
drew from a scabbard at his belt a long bowie knife , and taking it by the point handed it , handle first , to Chaske . 
Chaske scalped the dead Toka and motioned for his prisoner to follow him . 
In the meantime Pretty Feather had gotten up and stood looking at the duel . 
When she heard the first shot she jumped up and cut a small slit in the tent from which she saw the whole proceedings . 
Knowing that one or both of them must be wounded , she hurriedly got water and medicine roots , and when they came to the tent she was prepared to dress their wounds . 
Chaske had a bullet through his shoulder and one through his hand . 
They were very painful but not dangerous . 
The prisoner had a bullet through his leg , also one through the muscle of his left arm . 
Hake , who was in his tent grieving , was told that his friend had returned and with him Pretty Feather . 
Hearing this good news he at once went to the Medicine Man's tent and found the Medicine Man busily dressing the wounds of his friend and a stranger . 
The old Medicine Man turned to Hake and said Son in law , take your wife home with you . 
It was from grief at your absence that she went into a trance , and we , thinking she was dead , left her for such . 
Hadn't it been for your friend here , she would surely have been a corpse now . 
So take her and keep her with you always , and take as a present from me fifty of my best horses . 
Hake and his beautiful bride went home , where his adopted mother had a fine large tent put up for them . 
The hardest fight of my life was when I gave up Pretty Feather . 
be kind , and he will do all your biddings . 
To Pretty Feather be a good husband . 
So saying , Chaske left them , and true to his word , lived the remainder of his days a confirmed bachelor . 
THE STORY OF THE PET CROW Once upon a time there came to a large village a plague of crows . 
So thick were they that the poor women were sorely tried keeping them out of their tepees and driving them away from their lines of jerked buffalo meat . 
The war of extermination was to continue until not a crow remained , except the youngest found was to be brought to him alive . 
For a week the war on the crows continued . 
Thousands of dead crows were brought in daily , and at the end of the week not a bird of that species could be seen in the neighborhood . 
Those that escaped the deadly arrow of the warriors , flew away , never to return to those parts again . 
At the end of the war made upon the crows , there was brought to the Chief's tepee the youngest found . 
Indeed , so young was the bird that it was only the great medicine of the Chief that kept him alive until he could hop about and find his own food . 
The Chief spent most of his time in his lodge teaching the young crow to understand and talk the language of the tribe . 
After the crow had mastered this , the Chief then taught him the languages of the neighboring tribes . 
When the crow had mastered these different languages the chief would send him on long journeys to ascertain the location of the camps of the different enemies . 
to determine upon their next raid , and plan for a horse stealing trip , Mr. Crow was always nearby to hear all their plans discussed . 
and tell him all that he had learned . 
soon reached all of the different tribes . 
The Chief's warriors would intercept , ambush and annihilate every war party headed for his camp . 
So , finally learning that they could not make war on this chief's people unbeknown to them , they gave up making war on this particular band . 
When meat was running low in the camp this chief would send the crow out to look for buffalo . 
When he discovered a herd he would return and report to his master then the chief would order out the hunters and they would return laden with meat . 
Thus the crow kept the camp all the time informed of everything that would be of benefit to them . 
One day the crow disappeared , over which there was great grief among the tribe . 
A week had passed away , when Mr. Crow reappeared . 
In vain did the chief try to get the crow to tell him the cause of his silence and seeming grief . 
Upon hearing this , the crow said Don't go . 
I dreaded to tell you what I know to be a fact , as I have heard it from some great medicine men . 
I was traveling over the mountains west of here , when I spied three old men sitting at the top of the highest peak . 
I very cautiously dropped down behind a rock and listened to their talk . 
I heard your name mentioned by one of them , then your brother's name was mentioned . 
Then the third , who was the oldest , said 'in three days from today the lightning will kill those two brothers whom all the nations fear . 
Upon hearing what the crow stated the tribe became grief stricken . 
A great feast was given , and after the feasting was over there came in six young maidens leading the war horses of the two brothers . 
The horses were painted and decorated as if for a charge on the enemy . 
One maiden walked ahead of the chief's horse bearing in her hands the bow and arrows of the great warrior . 
Next came two maidens , one on either side of the prancing war steed , each holding a rein . 
Behind the chief's horse came the fourth maiden . 
Like the first , she bore in her hands the bow and arrows of the chief's brother . 
Then the fifth and sixth maidens each holding a rein , walked on either side of the prancing horse of the chief's brother . 
Scarcely had they entered the lodge when the rumblings of distant thunder could be heard . 
Nearer , and nearer , came the sound , until at last the storm overspread the locality in all its fury . 
Flash upon flash of lightning burst forth from the heavens . 
Deafening peals of thunder followed each flash . 
Finally , one flash brighter than any of the others , one peal more deafening than those preceding it , and the storm had passed . 
Sadly the warriors gathered together , mounted their horses and slowly rode to the tepee on the high point . 
Arriving there they looked inside the lodge and saw the two brothers lying cold and still in death , each holding the lariat of his favorite war horse . 
The horses also lay dead side by side in front of the tent . 
And from that day , the story goes , no crow ever goes near the village of that band of Indians . 
Once upon a time there appeared from out of a large belt of timber a man attired in the fat of the buffalo . 
On his head he wore the honeycomb part of the stomach . 
To this was attached small pieces of fat . 
The fat which covered the stomach he wore as a cloak . 
The large intestines he wore as leggings , and the kidney fat as his moccasins . 
with his hundreds of starving children . 
He then threw off his cloak and they devoured that , and were close upon him again , when he threw off his leggings . 
The family surrounded the two and Unktomi ordered them to fight . 
Fearing Unktomi and his large family , they at once commenced to fight and Pounded Meat was soon killed . 
The hungry family at once fell to eating him . 
So busy were they that none noticed the fat man sneak off and disappear . 
When they had finished the pounded beef man they looked around to fall upon the fat man , but nowhere could he be seen . 
Unktomi said , I will track him and when I find him , I will return for you , so stay here and await my return . 
He followed the fat man's tracks until farther east on the shore of the lake he found the fat man in the act of skinning a deer , which he had killed . 
My , said Unktomi , this will make a fine meal for my hungry children . 
I will go after them , so hurry and cut the meat up into small pieces so they each can have a piece . 
All right , go ahead and get your family , said Fat Man . 
During Unktomi's absence , the fat man hurriedly cut the meat up into small pieces and carried them up into a tree that stood near to the shore . 
When he had carried it all up he threw sand and dirt upon the blood , and so left no trace of the deer . 
On the arrival of Unktomi and his family , no signs of the fat man or the deer could be found . 
They wandered about the spot looking for tracks which might lead them to where the fat man had cached the meat , as Unktomi said he could not have carried it very far . 
Now the fat man was up in the tree and sat watching them . 
The reflection of the tree was in the water , and some of the children going close to the shore , discovered it as they looked at the reflection . 
The fat man cut a piece of meat and extending it towards them , drew back his hand and put the meat into his mouth . 
Come quick , father , here he is eating the meat , said the children . 
Unktomi came and seeing the reflection , thought the fat man was down in the lake . 
Wait , I will bring him up for you . 
So saying , he dived down , but soon arose without anything . 
Again and again he tried , but could not reach the bottom . 
He told the children to gather rock for him . 
These he tied around his neck and body , and dived down for the last time . 
The last the children saw of their father was the bubbles which arose to the surface of the lake . 
The rocks being too heavy for him , held him fast to the bottom , and some hungry fish soon made a feast out of the body of poor Unktomi . 
THE RESUSCITATION OF THE ONLY DAUGHTER There once lived an old couple who had an only daughter . 
That was No. One day this maiden fell ill and day after day grew worse . 
All the best medicine men were called in , but their medicines were of no avail , and in two weeks from the day that she was taken ill she lay a corpse . 
Of course there was great mourning in the camp . 
They took her body several miles from camp and rolled it in fine robes and blankets , then they laid her on a scaffold which they had erected . 
They placed four forked posts into the ground and then lashed strong poles lengthwise and across the ends and made a bed of willows and stout ash brush . 
This scaffold was from five to seven feet from the ground . 
After the funeral the parents gave away all of their horses , fine robes and blankets and all of the belongings of the dead girl . 
Then they cut their hair off close to their heads , and attired themselves in the poorest apparel they could secure . 
When a year had passed the friends and relatives of the old couple tried in vain to have them set aside their mourning . 
You have mourned long enough , they would say . 
Put aside your mourning and try and enjoy a few more pleasures of this life while you live . 
You are both growing old and can't live very many more years , so make the best of your time . 
The old couple would listen to their advice and then shake their heads and answer We have nothing to live for . 
Nothing we could join in would be any amusement to us , since we have lost the light of our lives . 
So the old couple continued their mourning for their lost idol . 
Two years had passed since the death of the beautiful girl , when one evening a hunter and his wife passed by the scaffold which held the dead girl . 
They were on their return trip and were heavily loaded down with game , and therefore could not travel very fast . 
At this spring the hunter camped and tethering his horses , at once set about helping his wife to erect the small tepee which they carried for convenience in traveling . 
When it became quite dark , the hunter's dogs set up a great barking and growling . 
Look out and see what the dogs are barking at , said the hunter to his wife . 
She looked out through the door and then drew back saying There is the figure of a woman advancing from the direction of the girl's scaffold . 
I expect it is the dead girl let her come , and don't act as if you were afraid , said the hunter . 
Soon they heard footsteps advancing and the steps ceased at the door . 
At this invitation the figure came slowly in and sat down by the door with head covered and with a fine robe drawn tightly over the face . 
The woman dished up a fine supper and placing it before the visitor , said Eat , my friend , you must be hungry . 
The figure never moved , nor would it uncover to eat . 
Let us turn our back towards the door and our visitor may eat the food , said the hunter . 
The hunter , filling his pipe , turned away and smoked in silence . 
Finally the dish was pushed back to the woman , who took it and after washing it , put it away . 
The figure still sat at the door , not a sound coming from it , neither was it breathing . 
The hunter at last said Are you the girl that was placed upon that scaffold two years ago ? It bowed its head two or three times in assent . 
Are you going to sleep here tonight if you are , my wife will make down a bed for you . 
The figure shook its head . 
Are you going to come again tomorrow night to us ? It nodded assent . 
For three nights in succession the figure visited the hunter's camp . 
The third night the hunter noticed that the figure was breathing . 
He saw one of the hands protruding from the robe . 
The skin was perfectly black and was stuck fast to the bones of the hand . 
The figure assented and the hunter rubbed the medicine on her hands and face . 
Then she arose and walked back to the scaffold . 
The next day the hunter moved camp towards the home village . 
That night he camped within a few miles of the village . 
When night came , the dogs , as usual , set up a great barking , and looking out , the wife saw the girl approaching . 
When the girl had entered and sat down , the hunter noticed that the girl did not keep her robe so closely together over her face . 
When the wife gave her something to eat , the girl reached out and took the dish , thus exposing her hands , which they at once noticed were again natural . 
After she had finished her meal , the hunter said Did my medicine help you ? She nodded assent . 
Do you want my medicine rubbed all over your body ? Again she nodded . 
I will mix enough to rub your entire body , and I will go outside and let my wife rub it on for you . 
He mixed a good supply and going out left his wife to rub the girl . 
Do you want to go with us ? She shook her head . 
Will you come again to our camp tomorrow night after we have camped in the village ? She nodded her head in assent . 
Then do you want to see your parents ? She nodded again , and arose and disappeared into the darkness . 
Early the next morning the hunter broke camp and traveled far into the afternoon , when he arrived at the village . 
He instructed his wife to go at once and inform the old couple of what had happened . 
The wife did so and at sunset the old couple came to the hunter's tepee . 
They were invited to enter and a fine supper was served them . 
Soon after they had finished their supper the dogs of the camp set up a great barking . 
Now she is coming , so be brave and you will soon see your lost daughter , said the hunter . 
Hardly had he finished speaking when she entered the tent as natural as ever she was in life . 
Her parents clung to her and smothered her with kisses . 
They wanted her to return home with them , but she would stay with the hunter who had brought her back to life , and she married him , becoming his second wife . 
A short time after taking the girl for his wife , the hunter joined a war party and never returned , as he was killed on the battlefield . 
A year after her husband's death she married again . 
This husband was also killed by a band of enemies whom the warriors were pursuing for stealing some of their horses . 
The third husband also met a similar fate to the first . 
He was killed on the field of battle . 
So she took to doctoring the sick and gained the reputation of being the most skilled doctor in the nation . 
was twelve years of age , and being the son of a distinguished hunter , soon took to roaming through the forest in search of small game . 
One day during his ramblings , he discovered a crane's nest , with only one young crane occupying it . 
No doubt some fox or traveling weasel had eaten the rest of the crane's brothers and sisters . 
The boy said to himself , I will take this poor little crane home and will raise him as a pet for our baby . 
If I leave him here some hungry fox will be sure to eat the poor little fellow . 
He carried the young crane home and it grew to be nearly as tall as the boy's five year old sister . 
Being brought up in a human circle , it soon grew to understand all the family said . 
Although it could not speak it took part in all the games played by the children . 
The father of the family was , as I have before mentioned , a great hunter . 
He always had a plentiful supply of deer , antelope , buffalo and beaver meats on hand , but there came a change . 
would be around to annihilate their fast decreasing droves . 
The hunter started out early one morning in hopes of discovering some of the game which had disappeared as suddenly as though the earth had swallowed them . 
The hunter traveled the whole day , all to no purpose . 
It was late in the evening when he staggered into camp . 
He was nearly dead with fatigue . 
, he at once retired and was soon in the sweet land of dreams . 
The children soon joined their father and the poor woman sat thinking how they could save their dear children from starvation . 
Suddenly out upon the night air rang the cry of a crane . 
Instantly the pet crane awoke , stepped outside and answered the call . 
Although busily occupied she kept her ears open for any strange noises coming out of the forest , there being usually some enemies lurking around . 
When she had nearly completed her task , she heard a noise as though some footsteps were approaching . 
Instantly her heart began to beat a tattoo on her ribs , but she sat perfectly quiet , calling all her self control into play to keep from making an outcry . 
This smart woman had already studied out a way in which to best this enemy , in case an enemy it should be . 
Little did Mr. Enemy suppose that the brave woman who sat so composed at her fire , was watching every motion he was making . 
The hand slowly withdrew , and as the footsteps slowly died away , there rang out on the still night air the deep fierce howl of the prairie wolf . 
At once she aroused her husband and children . 
Annoyed at being so unceremoniously disturbed from his deep sleep , the husband crossly asked why she had awakened him so roughly . 
The wife explained what she had seen and heard . 
She at once pinned an old blanket around the crane's shoulders and an old piece of buffalo hide on his head for a hat or head covering . 
Hurriedly she tied her blanket around her middle , put her baby inside of it , and then grabbed her three year old son and packed him on her back . 
The father also hurriedly packed the next two and the older boy took care of himself . 
Immediately upon leaving the tent they took three different directions , to meet again on the high hill west of their home . 
The reflection from the fire in the tent disclosed to them the poor pet crane running around the tent . 
It looked exactly like a child with its blanket and hat on . 
Suddenly there rang out a score of shots and war whoops of the dreaded Crow Indians . 
Finding the tent deserted they disgustedly filed off and were swallowed up in the darkness of the deep forest . 
The next morning the family returned to see what had become of their pet crane . 
There , riddled to pieces , lay the poor bird who had given up his life to save his dear friends . 
WHITE PLUME There once lived a young couple who were very happy . 
One day a stork paid this happy couple a visit and left them a fine big boy . 
The boy cried Ina , ina . 
He set to work making some arrows , and a fine hickory bow for his son . 
One of the arrows he painted red , one blue , and another yellow . 
The rest he left the natural color of the wood . 
You will grow up to be as fine a marksman as your father . 
The baby would coo and stretch his little arms up towards the bright colored quiver as though he understood every word his mother had uttered . 
The father taught his son how to string and unstring the bow , and also how to attach the arrow to the string . 
Then he would practice on eagles and hawks , and never an eagle or hawk continued his flight when the boy shot one of the arrows after him . 
One day the boy came running into the tent , exclaiming Mother , mother , I have shot and killed the most beautiful bird I ever saw . 
Bring it in , my son , and let me look at it . 
He brought the bird and upon examining it she pronounced it a different type of bird from any she had ever seen . 
Its feathers were of variegated colors and on its head was a topknot of pure white feathers . 
The father , returning , asked the boy with which arrow he had killed the bird . 
With the red one , answered the boy . 
That is right , my son , said the father . 
When you have the least doubt of your aim , always use one of the painted arrows , and you will never miss your mark . 
The parents decided to give a big feast in honor of their son killing the strange , beautiful bird . 
So a great many elderly women were called to the tent of Pretty Dove to assist her in making ready for the big feast . 
For ten days these women cooked and pounded beef and cherries , and got ready the choicest dishes known to the Indians . 
Of buffalo , beaver , deer , antelope , moose , bear , quail , grouse , duck of all kinds , geese and plover meats there was an abundance . 
So all bring your cups and wooden dishes along with your horn spoons , as there will be plenty to eat . 
Come , all you council men and chiefs , as they have also a great tent erected for you in which you hold your council . 
Thus crying , the heralds made the circle of the village . 
Half way up the pole was tied the bow and arrow of the young marksman . 
Long streamers of fine bead and porcupine work waved from the pole and presented a very striking appearance . 
The bird was faced towards the setting sun . 
The great chief and medicine men pronounced the bird Wakan . 
When the people had finished eating they all fell in line and marched in single file beneath the bird , in order to get a close view of it . 
This ended the feast , but before dispersing , the chief and councilmen bestowed upon the boy the title of White Plume . 
One day a stranger came to the village , who was very thin and nearly starved . 
So weak was he that he could not speak , but made signs for something to eat . 
Luckily the stranger came to Dead Shot's tent , and as there was always a plentiful supply in his lodge , the stranger soon had a good meal served him . 
After he had eaten and rested he told his story . 
I came from a very great distance , said he . 
The nations where I came from are in a starving condition . 
No place can they find any buffalo , deer nor antelope . 
A witch or evil spirit in the shape of a white buffalo has driven all the large game out of the country . 
Every day this white buffalo comes circling the village , and any one caught outside of their tent is carried away on its horns . 
In vain have the best marksmen of the tribe tried to shoot it . 
Their arrows fly wide off the mark , and they have given up trying to kill it as it bears a charmed life . 
Another evil spirit in the form of a red eagle has driven all the birds of the air out of our country . 
Many a marksman has tried his skill on this bird , all to no purpose . 
Any one who can kill these three witches will receive as his reward , the choice of two of the most beautiful maidens of our nation . 
The younger one is the handsomer of the two and has also the sweetest disposition . 
offer , have traveled many miles to try their arrows on the witches , but all to no purpose . 
Our chief , hearing of your great marksmanship , sent me to try and secure your services to have you come and rid us of these three witches . 
Thus spoke the stranger to the hunter . 
The hunter gazed long and thoughtfully into the dying embers of the camp fire . 
Then slowly his eyes raised and looked lovingly on his wife who sat opposite to him . 
White Plume had been listening to the conversation and when his father had finished speaking , said Father , I am a child no more . 
I have arrived at manhood . 
I am not so good a marksman as you , but I will go to this suffering tribe and try to rid them of their three enemies . 
The man rested a few days and one morning started off , after having instructed White Plume as to the trail . 
White Plume got together what he would need on the trip and was ready for an early start the next morning . 
he is the most tricky of all , and will get you into trouble if you associate with him . 
White Plume left early , his father accompanying him for several miles . 
On parting , the father's last words were Look out for Unktomi , my son , he is deceitful and treacherous . 
I'll look out for him , father so saying he disappeared over a hill . 
He was drawing near to the end of his destination when he had a large tract of timber to pass through . 
When he had nearly gotten through the timber he saw an old man sitting on a log , looking wistfully up into a big tree , where sat a number of prairie chickens . 
Hello , grandfather , why are you sitting there looking so downhearted ? asked White Plume . 
I will shoot one for you , said the young man . 
He strung his bow , placed an arrow on the string , simply seemed to raise the arrow in the direction of the chicken . 
Twang went out the bow , zip went the arrow and a chicken fell off the limb , only to get caught on another in its descent . 
There is your chicken , grandfather . 
Oh , my grandson , I am too weak to climb up and get it . 
The young man took off his fine clothes and climbed up into the tree , and securing the chicken , threw it down to the old man . 
As the young man was scaling down the tree , the old man said Iyashkapa , iyashkapa , . 
Hearing him say something , he asked , What did you say , old man ? He answered , I was only talking to myself . 
The young man proceeded to descend , but he could not move . 
His body was stuck fast to the bark of the tree . 
In vain did he beg the old man to release him . 
I will marry the chief's daughter , and you can stay up in that tree and die there . 
So saying , he put on White Plume's fine clothes , took his bow and arrows and went to the village . 
So certain were they that he would kill the evil spirits that the chief told him to choose one of the daughters at once for his wife . 
So Unktomi chose the older one of the sisters , and was given a large tent in which to live . 
The younger sister went to her mother's tent to live , and the older was very proud , as she was married to the man who would save the nation from starvation . 
The next morning there was a great commotion in camp , and there came the cry that the white buffalo was coming . 
Get ready , son in law , and kill the buffalo , said the chief . 
Unktomi took the bow and arrows and shot as the buffalo passed , but the arrow went wide off its mark . 
Next came the eagle , and again he shot and missed . 
Then came the rabbit , and again he missed . 
Wait until tomorrow , I will kill them all . 
My blanket caught in my bow and spoiled my aim . 
The people were very much disappointed , and the chief , suspecting that all was not right , sent for the young man who had visited Dead Shot's tepee . 
When the young man arrived , the chief asked Did you see White Plume when you went to Dead Shot's camp ? Yes , I did , and ate with him many times . 
I stayed at his father's tepee all the time I was there , said the young man . 
Would you recognize him if you saw him again ? asked the chief . 
Come with me to the tent of my son in law and take a good look at him , but don't say what you think until we come away . 
When they had returned to the chief's tent , the young man told what he knew and what he thought . 
Wait until he tries to kill the witches again tomorrow , said the chief . 
In the meantime the younger daughter had taken an axe and gone into the woods in search of dry wood . 
She went quite a little distance into the wood and was chopping a dry log . 
Stopping to rest a little she heard some one saying Whoever you are , come over here and chop this tree down so that I may get loose . 
Going to where the big tree stood , she saw a man stuck onto the side of the tree . 
If I chop it down the fall will kill you , said the girl . 
No , chop it on the opposite side from me , and the tree will fall that way . 
If the fall kills me , it will be better than hanging up here and starving to death , said White Plume , for it was he . 
Get some water and sage and put your blanket over me . 
She did as told and when the steam arose from the water being poured upon the heated rocks , the bark loosened from his body and he arose . 
When he stood up , she saw how handsome he was . 
You have saved my life , said he . 
Will you be my wife ? I will , said she . 
Let us make haste , as the bad Unktomi may ruin my arrows . 
Oh , yes , I borrowed them and forgot to return them make haste and give them to him . 
Upon receiving his clothes , he was very much provoked to find his fine clothes wrinkled and his bow twisted , while the arrows were twisted out of shape . 
He laid the clothes down , also the bows and arrows , and passing his hand over them , they assumed their right shapes again . 
had determined to settle accounts with him for his treatment of White Plume , and the deception employed in winning the chief's eldest daughter . 
Why do you treat me thus , cried Unktomi , I was just going out in search of medicine to rub on my arrows , so I can kill the witches . 
You will need medicine to rub on yourself when the chief gets through with you , said the young man who had discovered that Unktomi was impersonating White Plume . 
In the morning the herald announced that the real White Plume had arrived , and the chief desired the whole nation to witness his marksmanship . 
Then came the cry The White Buffalo comes . 
Taking his red arrow , White Plume stood ready . 
When the buffalo got about opposite him , he let his arrow fly . 
A loud cheer went up from the village . 
You shall use the hide for your bed , said the chief to White Plume . 
Next came a cry , the eagle , the eagle . 
From the north came an enormous red eagle . 
So strong was he , that as he soared through the air his wings made a humming sound as the rumble of distant thunder . 
The red eagle shall be used to decorate the seat of honor in your tepee , said the chief to White Plume . 
Last came the white rabbit . 
Aim good , aim good , son in law , said the chief . 
If you kill him you will have his skin for a rug . 
Along came the white rabbit , and White Plume sent his arrow in search of rabbit's heart , which it found , and stopped Mr. Rabbit's tricks forever . 
The chief then called all of the people together and before them all took a hundred willows and broke them one at a time over Unktomi's back . 
Then he turned him loose . 
Unktomi , being so ashamed , ran off into the woods and hid in the deepest and darkest corner he could find . 
are always found in dark corners , and anyone who is deceitful or untruthful is called a descendant of the Unktomi tribe . 
STORY OF PRETTY FEATHERED FOREHEAD There was once a baby boy who came into the world with a small cluster of different colored feathers grown fast to his forehead . 
From this he derived his name , Pretty Feathered Forehead . 
He was a very pleasant boy as well as handsome , and he had the respect of the whole tribe . 
When he had grown up to be a young man , he never , like other young men , made love to any of the tribe's beauties . 
Although they were madly in love with him , he never noticed any of them . 
There were many handsome girls in the different camps , but he passed them by . 
One day he said Father , I am going on a visit to the Buffalo nation . 
The father gave his consent , and away went the son . 
The father and mother suspected the object of their son's visit to the Buffalo nation , and forthwith commenced preparing a fine reception for their intended daughter in law . 
The mother sewed together ten buffalo hides and painted the brave deeds of her husband on them . 
This she made into a commodious tent , and had work bags and fine robes and blankets put inside . 
This was to be the tent of their son and daughter in law . 
In a few weeks the son returned , bringing with him a beautiful Buffalo girl . 
The parents of the boy gave a big feast in honor of the occasion , and the son and his wife lived very happily together . 
In the course of time a son came to the young couple , and the father was very proud of his boy . 
When the boy became a year old , the father said to his wife I am going for a visit to the Elk nation . 
The mother was very sad , as she knew her husband was going after another wife . 
He returned , bringing with him a very beautiful elk girl . 
When the Buffalo woman saw the elk girl she was very downcast and sad , but the husband said Don't be sad she will do all the heavy work for you . 
They lived quite happily together for a long time . 
The Elk girl also became the mother of a fine boy . 
The two boys had grown up large enough to play around . 
She hurriedly gathered some of her belongings and , calling her son , she started off in a westerly direction . 
The husband being absent on a hunting expedition did not return until late in the afternoon . 
So hurriedly going to his tent he looked around , but failing to see the boy or his mother , he asked his elk wife , where the boy and his mother were . 
How long has she been gone ? Since early morning . 
The husband hurriedly caught a fresh horse and , without eating anything , rode off in the direction taken by his buffalo wife and boy . 
Near dark he ascended a high hill and noticed a small tent down in the valley . 
It was a long distance down to the tent , so it was very late when he arrived there . 
He tethered his horse and went into the tent and found the boy and his mother fast asleep . 
Upon lying down beside them the boy awoke , and upon seeing his father , motioned to him to go outside with him . 
Then the boy told about what the elk wife had said and that she had called him flat mouth . 
The two went into the tent and were soon fast asleep . 
The father , being very much fatigued , slept very soundly , and when he awoke the sun was beating down upon him . 
The mother and boy were nowhere to be seen . 
The tent had been taken down from over him so carefully that he had not been awakened . 
Getting his horse , he mounted and rode after the two who had left him sleeping . 
He had no trouble in following the trail , as the boy had stamped his feet hard and left his little tracks in the soft places . 
That evening he spied the little tent again and on getting to it found them both asleep . 
The boy awoke and motioned for his father to go outside . 
He again told his father that the next day's travel would be the hardest of all . 
We will cross a great plain , but before we get there we will cross a sandy hollow . 
When you get to the hollow , look at my tracks they will be deep into the sand , and in each track you will see little pools of water . 
The relations of my mother live at that ridge and I will come and talk to you once more , before I leave you to join my mother's people . 
Next morning , as before , he awoke to find himself alone . 
They had left him and proceeded on their journey . 
He drank and drank until he had drained the last one . 
Then he arose and continued on the trail , and near sundown he came in sight of their little tent away up on the side of the ridge . 
His horse suddenly staggered and fell forward dead , having died of thirst . 
From there he proceeded on foot . 
When he got to where the tent stood he entered , only to find it empty . 
I guess my son intends to come here and have his last talk with me , thought the father . 
He had eaten nothing for three days , and was nearly famished . 
He lay down , but the pangs of hunger kept sleep away . 
He heard footsteps outside and lay in readiness , thinking it might be an enemy . 
When he entered he gave the parcel to his father and said Eat , father I stole this food for you , so I could not get very much . 
The father soon ate what his son had brought . 
When he had finished , the son said Tomorrow morning the relatives of my mother will come over here and take you down to the village . 
My mother has three sisters who have their work bags made identically the same as mother's . 
Were they to mix them up they could not each pick out her own without looking inside so as to identify them by what they have in them . 
You will be asked to pick out mother's work bag , and if you fail they will trample you to death . 
The bags you can tell by a little pebble I will place on my mother's . 
The boy then left , after admonishing his father to remember all that he had told him . 
Early next morning the father heard a great rumbling noise , and going outside , he saw the whole hillside covered with buffalo . 
When he appeared they set up a loud bellowing and circled around him . 
One old bull came up and giving a loud snort , passed on by , looking back every few steps . 
To this tree the old bull led him and stopped when he reached the tree . 
A large rock at the foot of the tree served as a seat for the man . 
As soon as he was seated there came four female buffaloes , each bearing a large work box . 
They set the boxes down in a row in front of the man , and the herd crowded around closer in order to get a good view . 
The old bull came to the front and stood close to the bags , which had been taken out of the four boxes . 
The man stood up , and looking at the bags , noticed a small pebble resting on the one next to the left end . 
Stepping over he pulled the bag towards him and secretly pushed the little pebble off the bag , so that no one would notice it . 
When they saw that he had selected the right one , they set up a terrific bellow . 
Then came the four sisters and stood in a line before the man . 
Glancing along from the one on the right to the last one on the left , he stepped forward and placed his hand on the one next to the right . 
Next came the four boy calves , and as they advanced they commenced dancing , and his son was shaking his head and flopping his ears and switching his tail . 
The herd then moved to other parts . 
The elk wife concluded that something had happened to her husband and determined upon going in search of him . 
As she was very fleet of foot it did not take her long to arrive at the lone tree . 
She noticed the blood splashed on the base of the tree , and small pieces of flesh stamped into the earth . 
Looking closer , she noticed something white in the dust . 
Stooping and picking it out of the dust , she drew forth the cluster of different colored feathers which had been fastened to her husband's forehead . 
She continued this for a long time , when she heard something moving inside the wickieup . 
Then a voice spoke up , saying Whoever you are , pour some more water on and I will be all right . 
So the woman got more water and poured it on the rocks . 
That will do now , I want to dry off . 
She plucked a pile of sage and in handing it in to him , he recognized his elk wife's hand . 
The woman , hearing of this , had posts set in the ground and a strong platform placed on top . 
When the buffalo came , her husband , her son and herself , were seated upon the bough platform , and the buffalo could not reach them . 
She flouted her red blanket in their faces , which made the buffalo wild with rage . 
The hunter's friends came to his rescue , and so fast were they killing the buffalo that they took flight and rushed away , never more to bother Pretty Feather Forehead . 
Alone and apart from their tribe dwelt four orphan brothers . 
They had erected a very comfortable hut , although the materials used were only willows , hay , birch bark , and adobe mud . 
After the completion of their hut , the oldest brother laid out the different kinds of work to be done by the four of them . 
Thus the four brothers lived happily for a long time . 
Who are you , and where did you come from ? asked the boy , in surprise . 
I am an orphan girl and have no relatives living . 
I came from the village west of here . 
She looked so pitiful and sad that the boy thought to himself , I will take her home with me , poor girl , no matter what my brothers think or say . 
Then he said to her Come on , tanke . 
You may go home with me I am sure my older brothers will be glad to have you for our sister . 
After they had entered the youngest brother got up and walked outside , and a short time after the oldest brother followed him out . 
Who is that girl , and where did she come from ? he asked his brother . 
Whereupon the brother told him the whole story . 
We will be your brothers , and our poor hut shall be your home . 
Henceforth call us brothers , and you will be our sister . 
Oh , how happy I am now that you take me as your sister . 
I will be to you all as though we were of the same father and mother , said the girl . 
She always had an extra buckskin suit and two pairs of moccasins hanging at the head of each one's bed . 
Buffalo , deer , antelope , bear , wolf , wildcat , mountain lion and beaver skins she tanned by the dozen , and piled nicely in one corner of the hut . 
When the Indians have walked a great distance and are very tired , they have great faith in painting their feet , claiming that paint eases the pain and rests their feet . 
The gentle touch of her hands , and the soothing qualities of the tallow and paint soon put them into a deep , dreamless steep . 
In the morning when they arose , the sister always combed their long black silken scalp locks and painted the circle around the scalp lock a bright vermillion . 
The hunters each had a post on which to hang his bow and flint head arrows . 
I am going for a visit to the village west of us , so you boys all stay at home and help sister . 
Also gather as much wood as you can and I will be back again in four days . 
On my return we will resume our hunting and commence getting our year's supply of meat . 
He left the next morning , and the last they saw of him was while he stood at the top of the long range of hills west of their home . 
Four days had come and gone and no sign of the oldest brother . 
I am afraid that our brother has met with some accident , said the sister . 
I am afraid so , too , said the next oldest . 
I must go and search for him he may be in some trouble where a little help would get him out . 
Across the valley was a long plain stretching for miles beyond and finally ending at the foot of another range of hills , the counterpart of the one upon which he sat . 
After noting the different landmarks carefully , he arose and slowly started down the slope and soon came to the creek he had seen from the top of the range . 
Great was his surprise on arriving at the creek to find what a difference there was in the appearance of it from the range and where he stood . 
From the range it appeared to be a quiet , harmless , laughing stream . 
Now he saw it to be a muddy , boiling , bubbling torrent , with high perpendicular banks . 
For a long time he stood , thinking which way to go , up or down stream . 
He had just decided to go down stream , when , on chancing to look up , he noticed a thin column of smoke slowly ascending from a little knoll . 
He approached the place cautiously and noticed a door placed into the creek bank on the opposite side of the stream . 
Your brother stopped here and ate his dinner with me , and then left , traveling towards the west , said the old witch , for such she was . 
Now , grandson , come across on that little log bridge up the stream there and have your dinner with me . 
I have it all cooked now and just stepped outside to see if there might not be some hungry traveler about , whom I could invite in to eat dinner with me . 
The young man went up the stream a little distance and found a couple of small logs which had been placed across the stream to serve as a bridge . 
He crossed over and went down to the old woman's dugout hut . 
Come in grandson , and eat . 
I know you must be hungry . 
The young man sat down and ate a real hearty meal . 
On finishing he arose and said Grandmother , I thank you for your meal and kindness to me . 
On my return I will stop with my brother and we will pay you a little visit . 
Very well , grandson , but before you go , I wish you would do me a little favor . 
Your brother did it for me before he left , and cured me , but it has come back on me again . 
No , grandson , don't be afraid of hurting me the harder you kick the longer the pain stays away . 
As he moved back to give the first kick , he glanced along the floor and he noticed a long object wrapped in a blanket , lying against the opposite wall . 
He thought it looked strange and was going to stop and investigate , but just then the witch cried out as if in pain . 
Hurry up , grandson , I am going to die if you don't hurry and start in kicking . 
I can investigate after I get through with her , thought he , so he started in kicking and every kick he would give her she would cry Harder , kick harder . 
When the second brother failed to return , the third went in search of the two missing ones . 
He fared no better than the second one , as he met the old witch who served him in a similar manner as she had his two brothers . 
Next year she will be riding and driving her brothers and she won't know it . 
When the third brother failed to return , the sister cried and begged the last one not to venture out in search of them . 
But go he must , and go he did , only to do as his three brothers had done . 
Now the poor sister was nearly distracted . 
Day and night she wandered over hills and through woods in hopes she might find or hear of some trace of them . 
Her wanderings were in vain . 
The hawks had not seen them after they had crossed the little stream . 
The wolves and coyotes told her that they had seen nothing of her brothers out on the broad plains , and she had given them up for dead . 
No sooner had it hit the water than she saw it grow larger . 
She took it out and looked at it and threw it in again . 
This time it had assumed the form of a baby . 
She took it out and threw it in the third time and the form took life and began to cry Ina , ina . 
She took the baby home and fed it soup , and it being an unnatural baby , quickly grew up to a good sized boy . 
At the end of three months he was a good big , stout youth . 
Oh , I know now where they are . 
You make me lots of arrows . 
I am going to find my uncles . 
The mother , seeing that he was determined to go , made a whole quiver full of arrows for him , and off he started . 
When he came to the old witch's hut , she was nowhere to be seen , so he pushed the door in and entered . 
The witch was busily engaged cooking dinner . 
Why , my dear grandchild , you are just in time for dinner . 
Sit down and we will eat before you continue your journey . 
Stone boy sat down and ate dinner with the old witch . 
She watched him very closely , but when she would be drinking her soup he would glance hastily around the room . 
Finally he saw the four bundles on the opposite side of the room , and he guessed at once that there lay his four uncles . 
He couldn't study it out , so when he had finished his smoke he arose to pretend to go . 
When the old woman saw him preparing to leave , she said Grandson , will you kick me on the left side of my backbone . 
I am nearly dead with pain and if you kick me good and hard it will cure me . 
All right , grandma , said the boy . 
The old witch lay down on the floor and the boy started in to kick . 
At the first kick he barely touched her . 
Kick as hard as you can , grandson don't be afraid you will hurt me , because you can't . 
With that Stone Boy let drive and broke two ribs . 
She commenced to yell and beg him to stop , but he kept on kicking until he had kicked both sides of her ribs loose from the backbone . 
Then he jumped on her backbone and broke it and killed the old witch . 
He built a big fire outside and dragged her body to it , and threw her into the fire . 
Thus ended the old woman who was going to turn his uncles into horses . 
Next he cut willows and stuck them into the ground in a circle . 
The tops he pulled together , making a wickieup . 
He then took the old woman's robes and blankets and covered the wickieup so that no air could get inside . 
He waited a little while and then listened and heard some breathing inside , so he got another bucket and poured that on also . 
After awhile he could hear noises inside as though some one were moving about . 
Stone boy then said Are all of you alive ? Yes , said the voice . 
Well , come out , said the boy . 
The uncles , when they heard who the boy was , were very happy , and they all returned together to the anxiously waiting sister . 
As soon as they got home , the brothers worked hard to gather enough wood to last them all winter . 
So they took advantage of the nice fall weather and by the time the snow commenced falling they had enough wood gathered to last them throughout the winter . 
After the snow fell a party of boys swiftly coasted down the big hill west of the brothers' hut . 
The Stone boy used to stand and watch them for hours at a time . 
His youngest uncle said Why don't you go up and coast with them ? The boy said They may be afraid of me , but I guess I will try once , anyway . 
So the next morning when the crowd came coasting , Stone boy started for the hill . 
As Stone boy started up the hill the two little fellows started down and went past him as though shot from a hickory bow . 
When they got to the end of their slide , they got off and started back up the hill . 
It being pretty steep , Stone boy waited for them , so as to lend a hand to pull the big coaster up the hill . 
One wore red , the other black . 
He at once offered to help them drag their coaster to the top of the hill . 
When they got to the top the twins offered their coaster to him to try a ride . 
At first he refused , but they insisted on his taking it , as they said they would sooner rest until he came back . 
Being very heavy , however , he nearly smashed the coaster . 
So upon his arrival at the starting point , they both asked him at once to give them the pleasure of the same kind of a ride he had taken . 
He refused , saying We will break your coaster . 
I alone nearly smashed it , and if we all get on and make the same kind of a jump , I am afraid you will have to go home without your coaster . 
Well , take us down anyway , and if we break it our father will make us another one . 
When they were all seated ready to start , he told them that when the coaster made the jump they must look straight ahead . 
By no means look down , because if you do we will go over the cut bank and land in a heap at the bottom of the gulch . 
Like an arrow they approached the jump . 
The twins began to get a little nervous . 
Sit steady and look straight ahead , yelled Stone boy . 
The twin next to Stone boy , who was steering behind , sat upright and looked far ahead , but the one in front crouched down and looked into the coulee . 
Of course , Stone boy , being behind , fell on top of the twins , and being so heavy , killed both of them instantly , crushing them to a jelly . 
Now , these twins were the sons of the head chief of the Buffalo Nation . 
So at once the chief and his scouts went over to the hill to see if the boys had told the truth . 
Tenderly they picked up the dead twins and carried them home , then held a big council and put away the bodies of the dead in Buffalo custom . 
A few days after this the uncles were returning from a long journey . 
When they drew near their home they noticed large droves of buffalo gathered on their side of the range . 
Hardly any buffalo ever ranged on this east side of the range before , and the brothers thought it strange that so many should so suddenly appear there now . 
Well , probably all the buffalo we saw were here for the council and funeral , said the older brother . 
But where is my nephew ? he asked his sister . 
He said he had noticed a great many buffalo around lately and he was going to learn , if possible , what their object was , said the sister . 
Well , we will wait until his return . 
He approached several bunches of young buffalo , but upon seeing him approaching they would scamper over the hills . 
Thus he wandered from bunch to bunch , scattering them all . 
Finally he grew tired of their cowardice and started for home . 
What are you doing here , grandfather ? asked the boy . 
I am sharpening my horns for the war , said the bull . 
What war ? asked the boy . 
Haven't you heard , said the old bull , who was so near sighted he did not recognize Stone boy . 
Is that so ? When is the war to commence ? In five days from now we will march upon the uncles and trample and gore them all to death . 
Well , grandfather , I thank you for your information , and in return will do you a favor that will save you so much hard work on your blunt horns . 
So saying he drew a long arrow from his quiver and strung his bow , attached the arrow to the string and drew the arrow half way back . 
The old bull , not seeing what was going on , and half expecting some kind of assistance in his horn sharpening process , stood perfectly still . 
That would be a horrible death , so I will save you all that suffering by just giving you this . 
At this word he pulled the arrow back to the flint head and let it fly . 
Walking over to the tree , he pulled out his arrow . 
Upon his arrival home he told his uncles to get to work building three stockades with ditches between and make the ditches wide and deep so they will hold plenty of buffalo . 
The fourth fence I will build myself , he said . 
The brothers got to work early and worked until very late at night . 
They built three corrals and dug three ditches around the hut , and it took them three days to complete the work . 
Stone boy hadn't done a thing towards building his fence yet , and there were only two days more left before the charge of the buffalo would commence . 
Still the boy didn't seem to bother himself about the fence . 
Instead he had his mother continually cutting arrow sticks , and as fast as she could bring them he would shape them , feather and head them . 
So by the time his uncles had their fences and corrals finished he had a thousand arrows finished for each of his uncles . 
The last two days they had to wait , the uncles joined him and they finished several thousand more arrows . 
The evening before the fifth day he told his uncles to put up four posts , so they could use them as seats from which to shoot . 
While they were doing this , Stone boy went out to scout and see how things looked . 
At daylight he came hurriedly in saying , You had better get to the first corral they are coming . 
You haven't built your fence , nephew . 
Whereupon Stone boy said I will build it in time don't worry , uncle . 
The dust on the hillsides rose as great clouds of smoke from a forest fire . 
Soon the leaders of the charge came in sight , and upon seeing the timber stockade they gave forth a great snort or roar that fairly shook the earth . 
Thousands upon thousands of mad buffalo charged upon the little fort . 
The leaders hit the first stockade and it soon gave way . 
The maddened buffalo pushed forward by the thousands behind them plunged forward , only to fall into the first ditch and be trampled to death by those behind them . 
The brothers were not slow in using their arrows , and many a noble beast went down before their deadly aim with a little flint pointed arrow buried deep in his heart . 
Come in , uncles , shouted Stone boy . 
They obeyed him , and stepping to the center he said Watch me build my fence . 
Suiting the words , he took from his belt an arrow with a white stone fastened to the point and fastening it to his bow , he shot it high in the air . 
Straight up into the air it went , for two or three thousand feet , then seemed to stop suddenly and turned with point down and descended as swiftly as it had ascended . 
Upon striking the ground a high stone wall arose , enclosing the hut and all who were inside . 
Just then the buffalo broke the last stockade only to fill the last ditch up again . 
In vain did the leaders butt the stone wall . 
They hurt themselves , broke their horns and mashed their snouts , but could not even scar the wall . 
The uncles and Stone boy in the meantime rained arrows of death into their ranks . 
When the buffalo chief saw what they had to contend with , he ordered the fight off . 
The crier or herald sang out Come away , come away , Stone boy and his uncles will kill all of us . 
, TWO WIDOWS , AND THE RED PLUMS There once lived , in a remote part of a great forest , two widowed sisters , with their little babies . 
One day there came to their tent a visitor who was called Unktomi . 
He had found some nice red plums during his wanderings in the forest , and he said to himself , I will keep these plums and fool the two widows with them . 
After the widows had bidden him be seated , he presented them with the plums . 
So large is the patch and so red and beautiful are the plums that it is the reflection of them on the cloud that you see . 
Oh , how we wish some one would take care of our babies , while we go over there and pick some , said the sisters . 
Why , I am not in any particular hurry , so if you want to go I will take care of my little nephews until you return . 
Well brother , said the older widow , take good care of them and we will be back as soon as possible . 
The two then took a sack in which to gather the plums , and started off towards the cloud with the crimson lining . 
Scarcely had they gone from Unktomi's sight when he took the babies out of their swinging hammocks and cut off first one head and then the other . 
He then took some old blankets and rolled them in the shape of a baby body and laid one in each hammock . 
Then he took the heads and put them in place in their different hammocks . 
The bodies he cut up and threw into a large kettle . 
This he placed over a rousing fire . 
Then he mixed Indian turnips and arikara squash with the baby meat and soon had a kettle of soup . 
Just about the time the soup was ready to serve the widows returned . 
They were tired and hungry and not a plum had they . 
Unktomi , hearing the approach of the two , hurriedly dished out the baby soup in two wooden dishes and then seated himself near the door so that he could get out easily . 
The babies have just fallen asleep , so don't waken them until you have finished eating , for I know that you are nearly starved . 
The two fell to at once and after they had somewhat appeased their appetites , one of them arose and went over to see how her baby was resting . 
Noting an unnatural color on her baby's face , she raised him up only to have his head roll off from the bundle of blankets . 
'My son ! my son ! she cried out . 
At once the other hastened to her baby and grabbed it up , only to have the same thing happen . 
At once they surmised who had done this , and caught up sticks from the fire with which to beat Unktomi to death . 
He , expecting something like this to happen , lost very little time in getting outside and down into a hole at the roots of a large tree . 
Thus they answered him Unktomi came here and fooled us about some plums , and while we were absent killed our babies and made soup out of their bodies . 
The Project Gutenberg Etext of Myths and Legends of the Sioux by Marie L. McLaughlin . 
