THE SISTERS' TRAGEDY WITH OTHER POEMS , LYR ICAL AND DRAMATIC . 
CORYDON A PASTORAL AT A READING THE MENU AN ELECTIVE COURSE L'EAU DORMANTE THALIA PALINODE A PETITION THE SISTERS' TRAGEDY A. D. AGLAE , a widow MURIEL , her unmarried sister . 
IT happened once , in that brave land that lies For half the twelvemonth wrapt in sombre skies , Two sisters loved one man . 
He being dead , Grief loosed the lips of her he had not wed , And all the passion that through heavy years Had masked in smiles unmasked itself in tears . 
No purer love may mortals know than this , The hidden love that guards another's bliss . 
High in a turret's westward facing room , Whose painted window held the sunset's bloom , The two together grieving , each to each Unveiled her soul with sobs and broken speech . 
In that lone place , Like dusk and dawn , they sat there face to face . 
Be still , my heart ! Grown patient with thine ache , Thou shouldst be dumb , yet needs must speak , or break . 
The world is empty now that he is gone . 
Ay , sweetheart ! MURIEL . 
None was like him , no , not one . 
From other men he stood apart , alone In honor spotless as unfallen snow . 
Nothing all evil was it his to know His charity still found some germ , some spark Of light in natures that seemed wholly dark . 
He read men's souls the lowly and the high Moved on the self same level in his eye . 
I saw how could I help but love ? And you AGLAE . 
At this perfection did I worship too . 
'Twas this that stabbed me . 
Heed not what I say ! I meant it not , my wits are gone astray , With all that is and has been . 
No , I lie Had he been less perfection , happier I ! MURIEL . 
Strange words and wild ! 'Tis the distracted mind Breathes them , not you , and I no meaning find . 
Yet 'twere as plain as writing on a scroll Had you but eyes to read within my soul . 
Nay , but I will speak , Since like two souls at compt we seem to stand , Where nothing may be hidden . 
Hold my hand , But look not at me ! Noble 'twas , and meet , To hide your heart , nor fling it at his feet To lie despised there . 
Thus saved you our pride And that white honor for which earls have died . 
You were not all unhappy , loving so ! I with a difference wore my weight of woe . 
It was my cruel lot , My hell , to love him for he loved me not ! Then came a silence . 
The dawn's straggling rays Showed Paris fettered , murmuring in amaze , With red hands at her throat a piteous sight . 
'Twixt hope and fear behold great Caesar hang ! Meanwhile , methinks , a ghostly laughter rang Through the rotunda of the Invalides . 
And there he plotted , by the storied Seine And in the fairy gardens of St . 
Cloud , The Sphinx that puzzled Europe , for awhile . 
Not thus he vanished later ! On his path The Furies waited for the hour and man , Foreknowing that they waited not in vain . 
Place de la Concorde no , the Place of Blood ! And all so peaceful now ! One cannot bring Imagination to accept the thing . 
TREAD softly here the sacredest of tombs Are those that hold your Poets . 
Kings and queens Are facile accidents of Time and Chance . 
Tread softly here , in silent reverence tread . 
Would he were at his mother's side ! And the skipper's eyes were dim . 
Some thought The workmanship more costly than the thing Moulded or carved , as in those ornaments Found at Mycaene . 
And yet Nature's self Works in this wise upon a blade of grass , Or what small note she lends the woodland thrush , Lavishing endless patience . 
He was born Artist , not artisan , which some few saw And many dreamed not . 
Not great his gift yet we can poorly spare Even his slight perfection in an age Of limping triolets and tame rondeaux . 
He had at least ideals , though unreached , And heard , far off , immortal harmonies , Such as fall coldly on our ear to day . 
The mighty Zolaistic Movement now Engrosses us a miasmatic breath Blown from the slums . 
We paint life as it is , The hideous side of it , with careful pains , Making a god of the dull Commonplace . 
Will it last ? Beauty alone endures from age to age , From age to age endures , handmaid of God . 
Poets who walk with her on earth go hence Bearing a talisman . 
'Tis said the seeds wrapt up among the balms And hieroglyphics of Egyptian kings Hold strange vitality , and , planted , grow After the lapse of thrice a thousand years . 
Some day , perchance , some unregarded note Of our poor friend here some sweet minor chord That failed to lure our more accustomed ear May witch the fancy of an unborn age . 
Who knows , since seeds have such tenacity ? Meanwhile he's dead , with scantiest laurel won And little of our Nineteenth Century gold . 
So , take him , Earth , and this his mortal part , With that shrewd alchemy thou hast , transmute To flower and leaf in thine unending Springs ! BATUSCHKA . 
As if some daemon in his glee Were mocking at their misery God save the Tsar ! In his Red Palace over there , Wakeful , he needs must hear the prayer . 
How can it drown the broken cries Wrung from his children's agonies ? God save the Tsar ! Father they called him from of old Batuschka ! . 
How his heart is cold ! Wait till a million scourged men Rise in their awful might , and then God save the Tsar ! ACT V Midnight . 
THE SHIPMAN'S TALE Listen , my masters ! I speak naught but truth . 
From dawn to dawn they drifted on and on , Not knowing whither nor to what dark end . 
Now the North froze them , now the hot South scorched . 
Day after day the same relentless sun , Night after night the same unpitying stars . 
At intervals fierce lightnings tore the clouds , Showing vast hollow spaces , and the sleet Hissed , and the torrents of the sky were loosed . 
At every turn strange shapes reached up and clutched The whirling wreck , held on awhile , and then Slipt back into that blackness whence they came . 
Fear not thou ! MONODY ON THE DEATH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS I One by one they go Into the unknown dark Star lit brows of the brave , Voices that drew men's souls . 
II Not of these was the man Whose wraith , through the mists of night , Through the shuddering wintry stars , Has passed to eternal morn . 
GUILIELMUS REX The folk who lived in Shakespeare's day And saw that gentle figure pass By London Bridge , his frequent way They little knew what man he was . 
I'LL NOT CONFER WITH SORROW I'll not confer with Sorrow Till to morrow But Joy shall have her way This very day . 
Ho , eglantine and cresses For her tresses ! Let Care , the beggar , wait Outside the gate . 
Tears if you will but after Mirth and laughter Then , folded hands on breast And endless rest . 
A DEDICATION Take these rhymes into thy grace , Since they are of thy begetting , Lady , that dost make each place Where thou art a jewel's setting . 
Some such glamour lend this Book Let it be thy poet's wages That henceforth thy gracious look Lies reflected on its pages . 
NO SONGS IN WINTER The sky is gray as gray may be , There is no bird upon the bough , There is no leaf on vine or tree . 
In the Neponset marshes now Willow stems , rosy in the wind , Shiver with hidden sense of snow . 
So too 'tis winter in my mind , No light winged fancy comes and stays A season churlish and unkind . 
How strange it seemed ! His living voice Was speaking from the page Those courteous phrases , tersely choice , Light hearted , witty , sage . 
I wondered what it was that died ! The man himself was here , His modesty , his scholar's pride , His soul serene and clear . 
A master's hand Has set the master player here , In the fair temple that he planned Not for himself . 
A ballroom in the winter palace of the Prince . 
The ladies in character costumes and masks . 
Quadrille music throughout the dialogue . 
You knew me ? HE . 
How could I have failed ? A mask may hide your features , not your soul . 
There is an air about you like the air That folds a star . 
A blind man knows the night , And feels the constellations . 
No coarse sense Of eye or ear had made you plain to me . 
My heart said , Pauline Pavlovna . 
Ah ! Your heart said that ? You trust your heart , then ! 'Tis a serious risk ! How is it you and others wear no mask ? HE . 
Is the Emperor here ? I have not seen him . 
He is one of the six In scarlet kaftans and all masked alike . 
Watch you will note how every one bows down Before those figures , thinking each by chance May be the Tsar yet none knows which is he . 
Even his counterparts are left in doubt . 
Unhappy Russia ! No serf ever wore Such chains as gall our Emperor these sad days . 
He dare trust no man . 
All men are so false . 
Spare one , Pauline Pavlovna . 
No all , all ! I think there is no truth left in the world , In man or woman . 
Count Sergius , is Nastasia here to night ? HE . 
Ah ! then you know ! I thought to tell you first . 
Not here , beneath these hundred curious eyes , In all this glare of light but in some place Where I could throw me at your feet and weep . 
Says , HERE , I HAVE THE PEARL OF PEARLS FOR YOU , SUCH AS WAS NEVER PLUCKED FROM OUT THE DEEP BY INDIAN DIVER , FOR A SULTAN'S CROWN . 
YOUR JOY'S DECREED , and stabs me with a smile . 
And she she loves you ? HE . 
I know not , indeed . 
What matters it ? HER love ! The guardian , Sidor Yurievich , consents , And she consents . 
No love in it at all , A mere caprice , a young girl's spring tide dream . 
I'd have been A hero , but quite safe from her romance . 
She takes me for a hero think of that ! Now by our holy Lady of Kazan , When I have finished pitying myself , I'll pity her . 
Oh no begin with her She needs it most . 
At her door lies the blame , Whatever falls . 
She , with a single word , With half a tear , had stopt it at the first , This cruel juggling with poor human hearts . 
The Tsar commanded it you said the Tsar . 
The Tsar does what she wills God fathoms why . 
Were she his mistress , now ! but there's no snow Whiter within the bosom of a cloud , Nor colder either . 
She is very haughty , For all her fragile air of gentleness With something vital in her , like those flowers That on our desolate steppes outlast the year . 
Resembles you in some things . 
It was that First made us friends . 
I do her justice , see ! For we were friends in that smooth surface way We Russians have imported out of France . 
The whole world smiled then , as I stooped to taste The sweetest cup , freak dashed it from my lip . 
This very night just think , this very night I planned to come and beg of you the alms I dared not ask for in my poverty . 
I thought me poor then . 
Because this thing has frozen up my heart . 
I think that there is something killed in me , A dream that would have mocked all other bliss . 
What shall I say ? What would you have me say ? HE . 
If it be possible , the word of words ! SHE , VERY SLOWLY . 
Well , then I love you . 
I may tell you so This once , . 
and then forever hold my peace . 
We cannot stay here longer unobserved . 
No do not touch me ! but stand further off , And seem to laugh , as if we jested eyes , Eyes everywhere ! Now turn your face away . 
With such music in my ears I would death found me . 
It were sweet to die Listening ! You love me prove it . 
Prove it how ? I prove it saying it . 
Pauline , I have three things to choose from you shall choose This marriage , or Siberia , or France . 
The first means hell the second , purgatory The third with you were nothing less than heaven ! SHE , STARTING . 
How dared you even dream it ! HE . 
This business has touched me in the brain . 
Have patience ! the calamity's so new . 
There is a fourth way but that gate is shut To brave men who hold life a thing of God . 
Yourself spoke there the rest was not of you . 
Oh , lift me to your level ! So I'm safe . 
What's to be done ? SHE . 
There must be some path out . 
Not a ray of hope ! His mind is set on this with that insistence Which seems to seize on all match making folk . 
The fancy bites them , and they straight go mad . 
Your father's friend , the Metropolitan A word from him . 
Alas , he too is bitten ! Gray haired , gray hearted , worldly wise , he sees This marriage makes me the Tsar's protege , And opens every door to preference . 
There surely is some key Unlocks the labyrinth , could we but find it . 
What ! beg life of her ? Not I. SHE . 
She is a woman , young , perhaps Untouched as yet of this too poisonous air . 
But yet the gentler passion is the stronger . 
Paul For , say , a month then some Siberian town . 
Not this way lies escape . 
At my first word That sluggish Tartar blood would turn to fire In every vein . 
How blindly you read her , Or any woman ! Yes , I know . 
Yes , you , not she . 
If she were at your height ! But there's no martyr wrapt in HER rose flesh . 
I fancy her , between two rosy smiles , Saying , Poor fellow , in the Nertchinsk mines ! That is the sum of her . 
Count Sergius Pavlovich , you said no mask Could hide the soul , yet how you have mistaken The soul these two months and the face to night ! Removes her mask . 
You ! it was YOU ! SHE . 
Count Sergius Pavlovich , Go find Pauline Pavlovna she is here And tell her that the Tsar has set you free . 
She goes out hurriedly , replacing her mask . 
BAGATELLE CORYDON A PASTORAL SCENE A roadside in Arcady SHEPHERD . 
I have not seen this maid , methinks , Though she that passed had lips like pinks . 
Or like two strawberries made one By some sly trick of dew and sun . 
Nay , a simple swain That tends his flock on yonder plain , Naught else , I swear by book and bell . 
But she that passed you marked her well . 
Was she not smooth as any be That dwell herein in Arcady ? PILGRIM . 
Her skin was as the satin bark Of birches . 
Light or dark ? PILGRIM . 
The peach's side That's next the sun is not so dyed As was her cheek . 
Her hair hung down Like summer twilight falling brown And when the breeze swept by , I wist Her face was in a sombre mist . 
No , that is not the maid I seek . 
HER hair lies gold against the cheek Her yellow tresses take the morn Like silken tassels of the corn . 
And yet brown locks are far from bad . 
Her voice though she but said God speed Was melody blown through a reed The girl Pan changed into a pipe Had not a note so full and ripe . 
Good sir , which way did THIS one go ? . 
So , he is off ! The silly youth Knoweth not Love in sober sooth . 
He loves thus lads at first are blind No woman , only Womankind . 
It was called , I think , A Brief Historic Glance At Russia , Germany , and France . 
Hypatia ah , what lovely things Are fashioned out of eighteen springs ! At first , in sums of this amount , The eighteen winters do not count . 
Just as my eyes were growing dim With heaviness , I saw that slim , Erect , elastic figure there , Like a pond lily taking air . 
THE MENU I beg you come to night and dine . 
A welcome waits you , and sound wine The Roederer chilly to a charm , As Juno's breath the claret warm , The sherry of an ancient brand . 
These being through , Friends shall drop in , a very few Shakespeare and Milton , and no more . 
When these are guests I bolt the door , With Not at Home to any one Excepting Alfred Tennyson . 
If Nature's secrets are forbidden To mortals , she may keep them hidden . 
Some folks admit , with cynic grace , That you have rather proved your case . 
Linnaeus , avaunt ! I only care To know what flower she wants to wear . 
When they come , I straightway send and purchase some . 
The Origin of Plants go to ! Their proper end I have in view . 
And in my copy there is none So perfect as the one I own I find no thing set down but such As teaches me to love it much . 
In vain he tries to win a look , And from the trellis over there Blows sundry kisses through the air , Which miss the mark , and fall unseen , Uncared for . 
THALIA A MIDDLE AGED LYRICAL POET IS SUPPOSED TO BE TAKING FINAL LEAVE OF THE MUSE OF COMEDY . 
We have too long been friends on foot and in gilded coaches , Now that the whole thing ends , to spoil our kiss with reproaches . 
Really , I cannot stay , though parting is such sweet sorrow . 
And those other nameless two Walking in Arcadian air She that was so very fair ? She that had the twilight hair ? They were you , dear , only you . 
A PETITION To spring belongs the violet , and the blown Spice of the roses let the summer own . 
Grant me this favor , Muse all else withhold That I may not write verse when I am old . 
