Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com THE WORKS OF SAMUEL JOHNSON IN SIXTEEN VOLUMES VOLUME IV THE RAMBLER BY SAMUEL JOHNSON CONTENTS No. Misella's description of the life of a prostitute . 
The effect of sudden riches upon the manners . 
The mischiefs of unbounded raillery . 
History of Dicaculus The majority are wicked . 
Directions to authors attacked by criticks . 
The various degrees of critical perspicacity . 
An account of a club of antiquaries . 
Many advantages not to be enjoyed together . 
The awkward merriment of a student . 
The study of life not to be neglected for the sake of books . 
The history of an adventurer in lotteries . 
The history of Leviculus , the fortune hunter . 
The influence of envy and interest compared . 
The subject of essays often suggested by chance . 
Chance equally prevalent in other affairs The prohibition of revenge justifiable by reason . 
The meanness of regulating our conduct by the opinions of men Anningait and Ajut a Greenland history The history of Anningait and Ajut concluded Favour often gained with little assistance from understanding . 
The history of Abouzaid , the son of Morad . 
The busy life of a young lady . 
The author's art of praising himself . 
A young nobleman's progress in politeness . 
A young nobleman's introduction to the knowledge of the town . 
The hopes of youth fallacious . 
The history of a legacy hunter . 
The legacy hunter's history concluded . 
The virtues of Rabbi Abraham's magnet . 
Asper's complaint of the insolence of Prospero Unpoliteness not always the effect of pride . 
The different acceptations of poverty . 
Cynicks and Monks not poor . 
The pleasures of life to be sought in prospects of futurity . 
The history of ten days of Seged , emperour of Ethiopia . 
The history of Seged concluded . 
The art of living at the cost of others . 
The folly of continuing too long upon the stage . 
Sequel of the story of Misargyrus . 
The difficulty of forming confederacies . 
Misargyrus' account of his companions in the Fleet . 
Presumption of modern criticism censured . 
Misargyrus' account of his companions concluded . 
On the trades of Londo . 
Apology for neglecting officious advice . 
Incitement to enterprise and emulation . 
Some account of the admirable Crichton . 
Folly of false pretences to importance . 
A journey in a stage coach . 
Study , composition and converse equally necessary to intellectual accomplishment . 
Criticism on the Pastorals of Virgil . 
Projectors injudiciously censured and applauded . 
Infelicities of retirement to men of business . 
On the uncertainty of human things . 
THE WORKS OF SAMUEL JOHNSON IN SIXTEEN VOLUMES VOLUME IV THE RAMBLER BY SAMUEL JOHNSON No. . 
TUESDAY , NOVEMBER , Toeet coeli convexa tueri . 
Dark is the sun , and loathsome is the day . 
SIR , MISELLA now sits down to continue her narrative . 
Here being by my circumstances condemned to solitude , I passed most of my hours in bitterness and anguish . 
The conversation of the people with whom I was placed was not at all capable of engaging my attention , or dispossessing the reigning ideas . 
My relation remitted none of his fondness , but visited me so often , that I was sometimes afraid lest his assiduity should expose him to suspicion . 
Whenever he came he found me weeping , and was therefore less delightfully entertained than he expected . 
To escape , however , was not yet in my power . 
I could support the expenses of my condition only by the continuance of his favour . 
He provided all that was necessary , and in a few weeks congratulated me upon my escape from the danger which we had both expected with so much anxiety . 
I then began to remind him of his promise to restore me with my fame uninjured to the world . 
He promised me in general terms , that nothing should be wanting which his power could add to my happiness , but forbore to release me from my confinement . 
The rage , anguish , and resentment , which I felt at this account are not to be expressed . 
I then suddenly contracted my expenses , but was unwilling to supplicate for assistance . 
Necessity , however , soon overcame my modesty or my pride , and I applied to him by a letter , but had no answer . 
I writ in terms more pressing , but without effect . 
Thus I passed seven months between hope and dejection , in a gradual approach to poverty and distress , emaciated with discontent , and bewildered with uncertainty . 
To remonstrate against legal cruelty , was vain to supplicate obdurate brutality , was hopeless . 
Night came on in the midst of my distraction , and I still continued to wander till the menaces of the watch obliged me to shelter myself in a covered passage . 
Next day , I procured a lodging in the backward garret of a mean house , and employed my landlady to inquire for a service . 
My applications were generally rejected for want of a character . 
Thus driven again into the streets , I lived upon the least that could support me , and at night accommodated myself under pent houses as well as I could . 
I still continued to stand in the way , having scarcely strength to walk further , when another soon addressed me in the same manner . 
By this man I was maintained four months in penurious wickedness , and then abandoned to my former condition , from which I was delivered by another keeper . 
It is said , that in France they annually evacuate their streets , and ship their prostitutes and vagabonds to their colonies . 
For my part , I should exult at the privilege of banishment , and think myself happy in any region that should restore me once again to honesty and peace . 
I am , Sir , c . 
SATURDAY , NOVEMBER , Saepe rogare soles , qualis sim , Prisce , futurus , Si fiam locuples , simque repente potens . 
Quemquam poss putas mores narrare futuros ? Dic mihi , si tu leo , qualis eris ? MART . 
Priseus , you've often ask'd me how I'd live , Should fate at once both wealth and honour give . 
What soul his future conduct can foresee ? Tell me what sort of lion you would be . 
Many observations have concurred to establish this opinion , and it is not likely soon to become obsolete , for want of new occasions to revive it . 
Whoever rises above those who once pleased themselves with equality , will have many malevolent gazers at his eminence . 
To gain sooner than others that which all pursue with the same ardour , and to which all imagine themselves entitled , will for ever be a crime . 
Of them , whose rise we could not hinder , we solace ourselves by prognosticating the fall . 
Riches therefore , perhaps , do not so often produce crimes as incite accusers . 
The common charge against those who rise above their original condition , is that of pride . 
It is certain that success naturally confirms us in a favourable opinion of our own abilities . 
We rate ourselves by our fortune rather than our virtues , and exorbitant claims are quickly produced by imaginary merit . 
It must however be confessed , that as all sudden changes are dangerous , a quick transition from poverty to abundance can seldom be made with safety . 
Every possession is endeared by novelty every gratification is exaggerated by desire . 
A thousand things which familiarity discovers to be of little value , have power for a time to seize the imagination . 
Some indulgence is due to him whom a happy gale of fortune has suddenly transported into new regions , where unaccustomed lustre dazzles his eyes , and untasted delicacies solicit his appetite . 
There is , at least , one consideration which ought to alleviate our censures of the powerful and rich . 
To imagine them chargeable with all the guilt and folly of their own actions , is to be very little acquainted with the world . 
De l'absolu pouvoir vous ignorez l'yvresse , Et du lache flateur la voix enchanteresse . 
Thou hast not known the giddy whirls of fate , Nor servile flatteries which enchant the great . 
MISS A. W. He that can do much good or harm , will not find many whom ambition or cowardice will suffer to be sincere . 
Favour is seldom gained but by conformity in vice . 
Virtue is sufficiently difficult with any circumstances , but the difficulty is increased when reproof and advice are frighted away . 
In common life , reason and conscience have only the appetites and passions to encounter but in higher stations , they must oppose artifice and adulation . 
TUESDAY , NOVEMBER Quo virtus , quo ferat error . 
These peculiarities have been of great use , in the general hostility which every part of mankind exercises against the rest , to furnish insults and sarcasms . 
Every art has its dialect , uncouth and ungrateful to all whom custom has not reconciled to its sound , and which therefore becomes ridiculous by a slight misapplication , or unnecessary repetition . 
Pedantry is the unseasonable ostentation of learning . 
It may be discovered either in the choice of a subject , or in the manner of treating it . 
It is always safer to err in favour of others than of ourselves , and therefore we seldom hazard much by endeavouring to excel . 
It ought at least to be the care of learning , when she quits her exaltation , to descend with dignity . 
Nothing is more despicable than the airiness and jocularity of a man bred to severe science , and solitary meditation . 
To the same praise every man devoted to learning ought to aspire . 
A man not early formed to habitual elegance , betrays , in like manner , the effects of his education , by an unnecessary anxiety of behaviour . 
It is as possible to become pedantick , by fear of pedantry , as to be troublesome by ill timed civility . 
SATURDAY , NOVEMBER , Faenum habet vn cornu , longe fuge dummodo risum Excutiat sibi , non hic cuiquam parcet amico . 
Yonder he drives avoid that furious beast If he may have his jest , he never cares At whose expense nor friend nor patron spares . 
RAMBLER , THE laws of social benevolence require , that every man should endeavour to assist others by his experience . 
I came forth into the crowded world with the usual juvenile ambition , and desired nothing beyond the title of a wit . 
With this view I regulated my behaviour in publick , and exercised my meditations in solitude . 
Among those I fixed my residence , and for a time enjoyed the felicity of disturbing the neighbours every night with the obstreperous applause which my sallies forced from the audience . 
The reputation of our club every day increased , and as my flights and remarks were circulated by my admirers , every day brought new solicitations for admission into our society . 
My heart , indeed , acquits me of deliberate malignity , or interested insidiousness . 
I had no other purpose than to heighten the pleasure of laughter by communication , nor ever raised any pecuniary advantage from the calamities of others . 
I would not be understood to charge myself with any crimes of the atrocious or destructive kind . 
I never betrayed an heir to gamesters , or a girl to debauchees never intercepted the kindness of a patron , or sported away the reputation of innocence . 
The power had been possessed in vain if it had never been exerted and it was not my custom to let any arts of jocularity remain unemployed . 
Every man has some favourite topick of conversation , on which , by a feigned seriousness of attention , he may be drawn to expatiate without end . 
Every man has some habitual contortion of body , or established mode of expression , which never fails to raise mirth if it be pointed out to notice . 
By premonitions of these particularities I secured our pleasantry . 
A general clamour of joy then burst from all that were admitted to the stratagem . 
I soon perceived myself regarded with malevolence or distrust , but wondered what had been discovered in me either terrible or hateful . 
I had invaded no man's property I had rivalled no man's claims nor had ever engaged in any of those attempts which provoke the jealousy of ambition or the rage of faction . 
I had lived but to laugh , and make others laugh and believed that I was loved by all who caressed , and favoured by all who applauded me . 
I was convinced , by a total desertion , of the impropriety of my conduct every man avoided , and cautioned others to avoid me . 
Wherever I came , I found silence and dejection , coldness and terrour . 
TUESDAY , NOVEMBER , Rari quippe boni , numerus vix est totidem quot Thebarum portoe , vel divitis ostia Nili . 
Good men are scarce , the just are thinly sown They thrive but ill , nor can they last when grown . 
And should we count them , and our store compile , Yet Thebes more gates could shew , more mouths the Nile . 
The depravity of mankind is so easily discoverable , that nothing but the desert or the cell can exclude it from notice . 
The knowledge of crimes intrudes uncalled and undesired . 
They whom their abstraction from common occurrences hinders from seeing iniquity , will quickly have their attention awakened by feeling it . 
Even he who ventures not into the world , may learn its corruption in his closet . 
Every day sends out , in quest of pleasure and distinction , some heir fondled in ignorance , and flattered into pride . 
He loves all , because he imagines himself the universal favourite . 
Every exchange of salutation produces new acquaintance , and every acquaintance kindles into friendship . 
They are soon surrounded by admirers whom they credit , because they tell them only what is heard with delight . 
Whoever gazes upon them is a lover and whoever forces a sigh , is pining in despair . 
Many who have not advanced to these degrees of guilt are yet wholly unqualified for friendship , and unable to maintain any constant or regular course of kindness . 
Thus numerous are the dangers to which the converse of mankind exposes us , and which can be avoided only by prudent distrust . 
NOVEMBER , Naso suspendis adunco . 
On me you turn the nose . 
THERE are many vexatious accidents and uneasy situations which raise little compassion for the sufferer , and which no man but those whom they immediately distress can regard with seriousness . 
Petty mischiefs , that have no influence on futurity , nor extend their effects to the rest of life , are always seen with a kind of malicious pleasure . 
As it very seldom happens that the rage of extemporary criticism inflicts fatal or lasting wounds , I know not that the laws of benevolence entitle this distress to much sympathy . 
It may therefore be necessary to consider , how they whom publication lays open to the insults of such as their obscurity secures against reprisals , may extricate themselves from unexpected encounters . 
The animadversions of criticks are commonly such as may easily provoke the sedatest writer to some quickness of resentment and asperity of reply . 
Some seem always to read with the microscope of criticism , and employ their whole attention upon minute elegance , or faults scarcely visible to common observation . 
Others are furnished by criticism with a telescope . 
They see with great clearness whatever is too remote to be discovered by the rest of mankind , but are totally blind to all that lies immediately before them . 
In criticism , as in every other art , we fail sometimes by our weakness , but more frequently by our fault . 
We are sometimes bewildered by ignorance , and sometimes by prejudice , but we seldom deviate far from the right , but when we deliver ourselves up to the direction of vanity . 
TUESDAY , NOVEMBER , Turpe est difficiles habere nugas . 
Those things which now seem frivolous and slight , Will be of serious consequence to you , When they have made you once ridiculous . 
This scheme of life seemed pregnant with inexhaustible variety , and therefore I could not forbear to congratulate myself upon the wisdom of my choice . 
But , in time , I began to find my mind contracted and stiffened by solitude . 
This I soon discovered to be one of those intellectual diseases which a wise man should make haste to cure . 
This search he had pursued so diligently , that he was able to shew the deficiencies of the best catalogues . 
Chartophylax then observed how fatally human sagacity was sometimes baffled , and how often the most valuable discoveries are made by chance . 
Cantilenus turned all his thoughts upon old ballads , for he considered them as the genuine records of the national taste . 
Every one of these virtuosos looked on all his associates as wretches of depraved taste and narrow notions . 
Their conversation was , therefore , fretful and waspish , their behaviour brutal , their merriment bluntly sarcastick , and their seriousness gloomy and suspicious . 
Hirsutus graciously informed me , that the number of their society was limited , but that I might sometimes attend as an auditor . 
I am , Sir , c . 
Leisure and curiosity might soon make great advances in useful knowledge , were they not diverted by minute emulation and laborious trifles . 
Whatever busies the mind without corrupting it , has at least this use , that it rescues the day from idleness , and he that is never idle will not often be vicious . 
SATURDAY , NOVEMBER , Pars sanitatis velle sanari fuit . 
To yield to remedies is half the cure . 
PYTHAGORAS is reported to have required from those whom he instructed in philosophy a probationary silence of five years . 
This is more necessary , if that which we are forsaking has the power of delighting the senses , or firing the fancy . 
He that once turns aside to the allurements of unlawful pleasure , can have no security that he shall ever regain the paths of virtue . 
Nam qui Tartareum in specus Victus lumina flexerit , Quidquid praecipuum trahit , Perdit , dum videt inferos . 
It may be observed , in general , that the future is purchased by the present . 
It is not possible to secure instant or permanent happiness but by the forbearance of some immediate gratification . 
The reigning errour of mankind is , that we are not content with the conditions on which the goods of life are granted . 
Every man that has felt pain , knows how little all other comforts can gladden him to whom health is denied . 
The whole world is put in motion by the wish for the riches and the dread of poverty . 
Great numbers who quarrel with their condition , have wanted not the power but the will to obtain a better state . 
TUESDAY , DECEMBER , Perpetuo risu pulmonem agitare solebat . 
Democritus would feed his spleen , and shake His sides and shoulders till he felt them ake . 
Every hour furnishes some confirmation of Tully's precept . 
Ignorance or dulness have indeed no power of affording delight , but they never give disgust except when they assume the dignity of knowledge , or ape the sprightliness of wit . 
Praise is seldom paid with willingness even to incontestable merit , and it can be no wonder that he who calls for it without desert is repulsed with universal indignation . 
Affectation naturally counterfeits those excellencies which are placed at the greatest distance from possibility of attainment . 
Gelasimus passed the first part of his life in academical privacy and rural retirement , without any other conversation than that of scholars , grave , studious , and abstracted as himself . 
Learning , when it rises to eminence , will be observed in time , whatever mists may happen to surround it . 
His merit introduced him to splendid tables and elegant acquaintance but he did not find himself always qualified to join in the conversation . 
He was distressed by civilities , which he knew not how to repay , and entangled in many ceremonial perplexities , from which his books and diagrams could not extricate him . 
Gelasimus did not want penetration to discover , that no charm was more generally irresistible than that of easy facetiousness and flowing hilarity . 
He came to a sudden resolution of throwing off those cumbrous ornaments of learning which hindered his reception , and commenced a man of wit and jocularity . 
Laughter , he knew , was a token of alacrity and , therefore , whatever he said or heard , he was careful not to fail in that great duty of a wit . 
The jest was indeed a secret to all but himself but habitual confidence in his own discernment hindered him from suspecting any weakness or mistake . 
gr Ta u ? t' eidwoes isqi , mathn d' 'Epicouron eason gr Ho u ? tooe cen ooen zhte i ? n , caioe tines ai monades . 
On life , on morals , be thy thoughts employ'd Leave to the schools their atoms and their void . 
Envy , curiosity , and a sense of the imperfection of our present state , incline us to estimate the advantages which are in the possession of others above their real value . 
Every one must have remarked , what powers and prerogatives the vulgar imagine to be conferred by learning . 
These demands of prejudice and folly can never be satisfied and therefore many of the imputations which learning suffers from disappointed ignorance , are without reproach . 
But there are some failures , to which men of study are peculiarly exposed . 
Every condition has its disadvantages . 
The learned , however , might generally support their dignity with more success , if they suffered not themselves to be misled by the desire of superfluous attainments . 
This angelick counsel every man of letters should always have before him . 
He that devotes himself to retired study naturally sinks from omission to forgetfulness of social duties he must be therefore sometimes awakened and recalled to the general condition of mankind . 
I am far from any intention to limit curiosity , or confine the labours of learning to arts of immediate and necessary use . 
a Such are a sort of sacrilegious ministers in the temple of intellect . 
A man flattered and obeyed , learns to exact grosser adulation , and enjoin lower submission . 
Neither our virtues nor vices are all our own . 
If there were no cowardice , there would be little insolence pride cannot rise to any great degree , but by the concurrence of blandishment or the sufferance of tameness . 
To those who are willing to purchase favour by cringes and compliance , is to be imputed the haughtiness that leaves nothing to be hoped by firmness and integrity . 
TUESDAY , DECEMBER , Neu fluitem dubiae spe pendulus horae . 
Nor let me float in fortune's ponv'r , Dependent on the future hour . 
In this course of even prosperity , I was one day persuaded to buy a ticket in the lottery . 
This dream of felicity , by degrees , took possession of my imagination . 
Delay in great affairs is often mischievous the ticket was sold , and its possessor could not be found . 
I returned to my conjectures , and after many arts of prognostication , fixed upon another chance , but with less confidence . 
At last the day came , my ticket appeared , and rewarded all my care and sagacity with a despicable prize of fifty pounds . 
Many conclusions did I form , and many experiments did I try , to determine from which of those tickets I might most reasonably expect riches . 
This experiment was fallacious the first day presented the hopeful ticket , a detestable blank . 
The rest came out with different fortune , and in conclusion I lost thirty pounds by this great adventure . 
I had now wholly changed the cast of my behaviour and the conduct of my life . 
I mistook the price of my goods , committed blunders in my bills , forgot to file my receipts , and neglected to regulate my books . 
Miscarriage naturally produces diffidence I began now to seek assistance against ill luck , by an alliance with those that had been more successful . 
I waited for the decision of my fate with my former palpitations , and looked upon the business of my trade with the usual neglect . 
The wheel at last was turned , and its revolutions brought me a long succession of sorrows and disappointments . 
You will easily judge with what detestation of himself , a man thus intent upon gain reflected that he had sold a prize which was once in his possession . 
There are , said he , few minds sufficiently firm to be trusted in the hands of chance . 
Whoever finds himself inclined to anticipate futurity , and exalt possibility to certainty , should avoid every kind of casual adventure , since his grief must be always proportionate to his hope . 
You are now fretting away your life in repentance of an act , against which repentance can give no caution , but to avoid the occasion of committing it . 
SATURDAY , DECEMBER , Dives qui fieri vult , Et cito vult fieri . 
The lust of wealth can never bear delay . 
One of the most indefatigable of this class , is my old friend Leviculus , whom I have never known for thirty years without some matrimonial project of advantage . 
He was , however , soon rid of his perplexity , for his mistress died before their marriage . 
But the lady liked better to be courted than married , and kept him three years in uncertainty and attendance . 
At last she fell in love with a young ensign at a ball , and having danced with him all night , married him in the morning . 
They hovered round her with such jealous officiousness , as scarcely left a moment vacant for a lover . 
Leviculus , nevertheless , discovered his passion in a letter , and Altilia could not withstand the pleasure of hearing vows and sighs , and flatteries and protestations . 
Sometimes she was advised with great earnestness to travel for her health , and sometimes entreated to keep her brother's house . 
Many stories were spread to the disadvantage of Leviculus , by which she commonly seemed affected for a time , but took care soon afterwards to express her conviction of their falsehood . 
He now grew bolder , and ventured to breathe out his impatience before her . 
Leviculus was triumphing on the eve of marriage , when he heard on the stairs the voice of Latronia's maid , whom frequent bribes had secured in his service . 
No formality was necessary in addressing madam Prune , and therefore Leviculus went next morning without an introductor . 
Leviculus discovered that this coarseness was nothing more than the coquetry of Cornhill , and next day returned to the attack . 
He sometimes presumed to mention marriage but was always answered with a slap , a hoot , and a flounce . 
In these , and a thousand intermediate adventures , has Leviculus spent his time , till he is now grown grey with age , fatigue , and disappointment . 
TUESDAY , DECEMBER , Nulla fides regni sociis , omnisque potestas Impatiens consortis erit . 
No faith of partnership dominion owns Still discord hovers o'er divided thrones . 
THE hostility perpetually exercised between one man and another , is caused by the desire of many for that which only few can possess . 
Of these two malignant and destructive powers , it seems probable at the first view , that interest has the strongest and most extensive influence . 
It must be more natural to rob for gain , than to ravage only for mischief . 
Interest can diffuse itself but to a narrow compass . 
The number is never large of those who can hope to fill the posts of degraded power , catch the fragments of shattered fortune , or succeed to the honours of depreciated beauty . 
But the empire of envy has no limits , as it requires to its influence very little help from external circumstances . 
Envy may always be produced by idleness and pride , and in what place will they not be found ? Interest requires some qualities not universally bestowed . 
He that falls by the attacks of interest , is torn by hungry tigers he may discover and resist his enemies . 
Interest is seldom pursued but at some hazard . 
He that hopes to gain much , has commonly something to lose , and when he ventures to attack superiority , if he fails to conquer , is irrecoverably crushed . 
But envy may act without expense or danger . 
To spread suspicion , to invent calumnies , to propagate scandal , requires neither labour nor courage . 
It is easy for the author of a lie , however malignant , to escape detection , and infamy needs very little industry to assist its circulation . 
It is impossible to mention a name which any advantageous distinction has made eminent , but some latent animosity will burst out . 
The wealthy trader , however he may abstract himself from publick affairs , will never want those who hint , with Shylock , that ships are but boards . 
The beauty , adorned only with the unambitious graces of innocence and modesty , provokes , whenever she appears , a thousand murmurs of detraction . 
The frequency of envy makes it so familiar , that it escapes our notice nor do we often reflect upon its turpitude or malignity , till we happen to feel its influence . 
Envy is , indeed , a stubborn weed of the mind , and seldom yields to the culture of philosophy . 
It is above all other vices inconsistent with the character of a social being , because it sacrifices truth and kindness to very weak temptations . 
I have hitherto avoided that dangerous and empirical morality , which cures one vice by means of another . 
But envy is so base and detestable , so vile in its original , and so pernicious in its effects , that the predominance of almost any other quality is to be preferred . 
It is one of those lawless enemies of society , against which poisoned arrows may honestly be used . 
Let it therefore be constantly remembered , that whoever envies another , confesses his superiority , and let those be reformed by their pride who have lost their virtue . 
SATURDAY , DECEMBER , Permittes ipsis expendere numinibus , quid Conveniat nobis , rebusque sit utile nostris . 
Intrust thy fortune to the pow'rs above Leave them to manage for thee , and to grant What their unerring wisdom sees thee want . 
AS every scheme of life , so every form of writing , has its advantages and inconveniences , though not mingled in the same proportions . 
The most frequent difficulty by which the authors of these petty compositions are distressed , arises from the perpetual demand of novelty and change . 
The compiler of a system of science lays his invention at rest , and employs only his judgment , the faculty exerted with least fatigue . 
But he that attempts to entertain his reader with unconnected pieces , finds the irksomeness of his task rather increased than lessened by every production . 
The day calls afresh upon him for a new topick , and he is again obliged to choose , without any principle to regulate his choice . 
It is indeed true , that there is seldom any necessity of looking far , or inquiring long for a proper subject . 
To close tedious deliberations with hasty resolves , and after long consultations with reason to refer the question to caprice , is by no means peculiar to the essayist . 
Let him that peruses this paper review the series of his life , and inquire how he was placed in his present condition . 
No course of life is so prescribed and limited , but that many actions must result from arbitrary election . 
Since life itself is uncertain , nothing which has life for its basis can boast much stability . 
Yet this is but a small part of our perplexity . 
TUESDAY , DECEMBER , At vindicta bonum vita jucundius ipsa , Nempe hoc indocti . 
Chrysippus non dicet idem , nec mite Thaletis Ingenium , dulcique senex vicinus Hymetto , Qui partem adceptae saeva inter vincla Cicutoe Adcusatori nollet dare . 
Quippe minuti Semper et infirmi est animi exiguique voluptas Ultio . 
BUT O ! REVENGE IS SWEET . 
Thus think the crowd who , eager to engage , Take quickly fire , and kindle into rage . 
Many who could have conquered their anger , are unable to combat pride , and pursue offences to extremity of vengeance , lest they should be insulted by the triumph of an enemy . 
But certainly no precept could better become him , at whose birth PEACE was proclaimed TO THE EARTH . 
Every one wishes for the distinctions for which thousands are wishing at the same time , in their own opinion , with better claims . 
Nothing is more apparent than that , however injured , or however provoked , some must at last be contented to forgive . 
What then can ensue but a continual exacerbation of hatred , an unextinguishable feud , an incessant reciprocation of mischief , a mutual vigilance to entrap , and eagerness to destroy . 
It is easiest to forgive , while there is yet little to be forgiven . 
A wise man will make haste to forgive , because he knows the true value of time , and will not suffer it to pass away in unnecessary pain . 
Resentment is an union of sorrow with malignity , a combination of a passion which all endeavour to avoid , with a passion which all concur to detest . 
Whoever considers the weakness both of himself and others , will not long want persuasives to forgiveness . 
It may be laid down as an unfailing and universal axiom , that all pride is abject and mean . 
It is always an ignorant , lazy , or cowardly acquiescence in a false appearance of excellence , and proceeds not from consciousness of our attainments , but insensibility of our wants . 
Nothing can be great which is not right . 
Nothing which reason condemns can be suitable to the dignity of the human mind . 
Of him that hopes to be forgiven , it is indispensably required that he forgive . 
It is therefore superfluous to urge any other motive . 
SATURDAY , DECEMBER , Pone me , pigris ubi nulla campis Arbor aestiva recreatur aura Dulce ridentem Lagagen amabo Dulce loquentem . 
Positive pleasure we cannot always obtain , and positive pain we often cannot remove . 
No man can give to his own plantations the fragrance of the Indian groves nor will any precepts of philosophy enable him to withdraw his attention from wounds or diseases . 
But the negative infelicity which proceeds , not from the pressure of sufferings , but the absence of enjoyments , will always yield to the remedies of reason . 
No inconvenience is less superable by art or diligence than the inclemency of climates , and therefore none affords more proper exercise for this philosophical abstraction . 
Anningait and Ajut for a time always went out in the same boat , and divided whatever was caught . 
O virgin , beautiful as the sun shining on the water , consider , said Anningait , what thou hast required . 
How easily may my return be precluded by a sudden frost or unexpected fogs ! then must the night be passed without my Ajut . 
Even in summer we have no means of crossing the mountains , whose snows are never dissolved nor can remove to any distant residence , but in our boats coasting the bays . 
Consider , Ajut , a few summer days , and a few winter nights , and the life of man is at an end . 
TUESDAY , DECEMBER , Non illuwm nostri possunt mutare labores Non si frigoribus mediis Hebrumque bibamus , Sithoniasque nives hyemis subeamus aquosae Omnia vincit amor . 
She endeavoured to divert her thoughts , by continual application to feminine employments , gathered moss for the winter lamps , and dried grass to line the boots of Anningait . 
The large boats in which the Greenlanders transport their families , are always rowed by women for a man will not debase himself by work , which requires neither skill nor courage . 
Anningait was therefore exposed by idleness to the ravages of passion . 
He then composed his emotions as he could , and expressed , in wild numbers and uncouth images , his hopes , his sorrows , and his fears . 
I will chase the deer , I will subdue the whale , resistless as the frost of darkness , and un wearied as the summer sun . 
Anningait having with these sentiments consoled his grief , and animated his industry , found that they had now coasted the headland , and saw the whales spouting at a distance . 
Norngsuk was of birth truly illustrious . 
His mother had died in child birth , and his father , the most expert fisher of Greenland , had perished by too close pursuit of the whale . 
When he saw the beauty of Ajut , he immediately threw over her the skin of a deer that he had taken , and soon after presented her with a branch of coral . 
Ajut refused his gifts , and determined to admit no lover in the place of Anningait . 
Norngsuk , thus rejected , had recourse to stratagem . 
He knew that Ajut would consult an Angekkok , or diviner , concerning the fate of her lover , and the felicity of her future life . 
The Angekkok knew the way to riches , and foretold that Anningait , having already caught two whales , would soon return home with a large boat laden with provisions . 
The wealth of Greenland is too powerful for the virtue of a Greenlander they forgot the merit and the presents of Anningait , and decreed Ajut to the embraces of Norngsuk . 
At last she saw the great boat in which Anningait had departed , stealing slow and heavy laden along the coast . 
She ran with all the impatience of affection to catch her lover in her arms , and relate her constancy and sufferings . 
The fate of these lovers gave occasion to various fictions and conjectures . 
SATURDAY , JANUARY , Si te colo , Sexte , non amabo . 
The more I honour thee , the less I love . 
ONE of the desires dictated by vanity is more general , or less blamable , than that of being distinguished for the arts of conversation . 
I question whether some abatement of character is not necessary to general acceptance . 
For this reason , no style of conversation is more extensively acceptable than the narrative . 
He who has stored his memory with slight anecdotes , private incidents , and personal peculiarities , seldom fails to find his audience favourable . 
Almost every man listens with eagerness to contemporary history for almost every man has some real or imaginary connexion with a celebrated character , some desire to advance or oppose a rising name . 
Vanity often co operates with curiosity . 
Narratives are for the most part heard without envy , because they are not supposed to imply any intellectual qualities above the common rate . 
We are willing to be pleased , but are not willing to admire we favour the mirth or officiousness that solicits our regard , but oppose the worth or spirit that enforces it . 
Next to the merry fellow is the GOOD NATURED MAN , a being generally without benevolence , or any other virtue , than such as indolence and insensibility confer . 
The MODEST MAN is a companion of a yet lower rank , whose only power of giving pleasure is not to interrupt it . 
The modest man satisfies himself with peaceful silence , which all his companions are candid enough to consider as proceeding not from inability to speak , but willingness to hear . 
Many , without being able to attain any general character of excellence , have some single art of entertainment which serves them as a passport through the world . 
Mr. Chalmers , in his preface to the Rambler observes , that the above quoted lively writer was the only authority for these assignments . 
She is certainly far too hasty and negligent to be relied on , when unsupported by other testimony . 
TUESDAY , JANUARY , Quod tam grande Sophos clamat tibi turba togata Non tu , Pomponi caena diserta tua est . 
Resounding plaudits though the crowd have rung Thy treat is eloquent , and not thy tongue . 
THE world scarcely affords opportunities of making any observation more frequently , than on false claims to commendation . 
The artful and fraudulent usurpers of distinction deserve greater severities than ridicule and contempt , since they are seldom content with empty praise , but are instigated by passions more pernicious than vanity . 
Even among some , too thoughtless and volatile for avarice or ambition , may be found a species of falsehood more detestable than the levee or exchange can shew . 
Such flatterers every one will find , who has power to reward their assiduities . 
Wherever there is wealth there will be dependance and expectation , and wherever there is dependance , there will be an emulation of servility . 
Whatever difficulty there may be in the knowledge of ourselves , scarcely any one fails to suspect his own imperfections , till he is elevated by others to confidence . 
We are almost all naturally modest and timorous but fear and shame are uneasy sensations , and whosoever helps to remove them is received with kindness . 
Turpicula was the heiress of a large estate , and having lost her mother in infancy , was committed to a governess , whom misfortunes had reduced to suppleness and humility . 
Turpicula saw nothing but obsequiousness , and heard nothing but commendations . 
The desire of conquest naturally led her to the lists in which beauty signalizes her power . 
SATURDAY , DECEMBER , Ploravere suis non respondere favorem Speratum meritis . 
Henry and Alfred Clos'd their long glories with a sigh , to find Th' unwilling gratitude of base mankind . 
The emperour called him into his presence , and gave into his hand the keys of riches , and the sabre of command . 
The voice of Morad was heard from the cliffs of Taurus to the Indian ocean , every tongue faltered in his presence , and every eye was cast down before him . 
Morad lived many years in prosperity every day increased his wealth , and extended his influence . 
The sages repeated his maxims , the captains of thousands waited his commands . 
Competition withdrew into the cavern of envy , and discontent trembled at his own murmurs . 
But human greatness is short and transitory , as the odour of incense in the fire . 
The sun grew weary of gilding the palaces of Morad , the clouds of sorrow gathered round his head , and the tempest of hatred roared about his dwelling . 
Morad saw ruin hastily approaching . 
He felt his danger , and prostrated himself at the foot of the throne . 
His accusers were confident and loud , his friends stood contented with frigid neutrality , and the voice of truth was overborne by clamour . 
He was divested of his power , deprived of his acquisitions , and condemned to pass the rest of his life on his hereditary estate . 
His discontent in time vitiated his constitution , and a slow disease siezed upon him . 
He refused physick , neglected exercise , and lay down on his couch peevish and restless , rather afraid to die than desirous to live . 
In this melancholy state , he commanded messengers to recall his eldest son Abouzaid from the army . 
Abouzaid was alarmed at the account of his father's sickness , and hasted by long journeys to his place of residence . 
Hear , therefore , the precepts of ancient experience , let not my last instructions issue forth in vain . 
Thou hast seen me happy and calamitous , thou hast beheld my exaltation and my fall . 
Cast thine eyes around thee whatever thou beholdest will , in a few hours , be thine apply thine ear to my dictates , and these possessions will promote thy happiness . 
Aspire not to public honours , enter not the palaces of kings thy wealth will set thee above insult , let thy moderation keep thee below envy . 
Morad expired in a few hours . 
Abouzaid , after the months of mourning , determined to regulate his conduct by his father's precepts , and cultivate the love of mankind by every art of kindness and endearment . 
He therefore augmented the pay of all his attendants , and requited every exertion of uncommon diligence by supernumerary gratuities . 
He therefore resolved to associate with a few equal companions selected from among the chief men of the province . 
They then disturbed each other with contrariety of inclinations , and difference of sentiments , and Abouzaid was necessitated to offend one party by concurrence , or both by indifference . 
He afterwards determined to avoid a close union with beings so discordant in their nature , and to diffuse himself in a larger circle . 
He practised the smile of universal courtesy , and invited all to his table , but admitted none to his retirements . 
By degrees all made advances , and all resented repulse . 
The table was then covered with delicacies in vain the musick sounded in empty rooms and Abouzaid was left to form in solitude some new scheme of pleasure or security . 
Resolving now to try the force of gratitude , he inquired for men of science , whose merit was obscured by poverty . 
His house was soon crowded with poets , sculptors , painters , and designers , who wantoned in unexperienced plenty , and employed their powers in celebration of their patron . 
Abouzaid heard their murmurs and dismissed them , and from that hour continued blind to colours , and deaf to panegyrick . 
As the sons of art departed , muttering threats of perpetual infamy , Abouzaid , who stood at the gate , called to him Hamet the poet . 
TUESDAY , JANUARY , Cereus in vitium flecti , monitoribus asper . 
The youth Yielding like wax , th' impressive folly bears Rough to reproof , and slow to future cares . 
Dear Mr. Rambler , who can bear it ? My aunt has just brought me a bundle of your papers for my amusement . 
She says you are a philosopher , and will teach me to moderate my desires , and look upon the world with indifference . 
When I play at cards , they never take advantage of my mistakes , nor exact from me a rigorous observation of the game . 
I have not yet promised him but when the town grows a little empty , I shall think upon it , for I want some trinkets , like Letitia's , to my watch . 
I do not doubt my luck , but must study some means of amusing my relations . 
SATURDAY , JANUARY , gr Genos ouoedeoen eioes Erwta . 
S gr Sofih , tropos pate i ? tai . 
S gr Monon arguron Blepousin . 
gr 'Apoloito pr w ? tos a uoetooes gr O tooen arguron filhsas . 
gr Dtaoe to u ? ton ouoec aoedelfooes , gr Dtaoe to u ? ton ouoe toc h ? es . 
S gr Polemoi , fonoi dioe auoeton . 
gr Tooe deoe Ce i ? ton , ooellumesqa gr Dtaoe touoeton oi filo u ? ntes . 
gr ODAI , M s . 
Vain the noblest birth would prove , Nor worth or wit avail in love 'Tis gold alone succeeds by gold The venal sex is bought and sold . 
Nearly resembling this was the practice of my wise progenitors for many ages . 
In time , however , by continual profit and small expenses , he grew rich , and began to turn his thoughts towards rank . 
The little presents which we sent were always returned with great munificence . 
He furnished our house with all the elegance of fashionable expense , and was careful to conceal his bounties , lest the poverty of his family should be suspected . 
At length it happened that , by misconduct like our own , a large estate , which had been purchased from us , was again exposed to the best bidder . 
Flavilla was all softness and complaisance . 
I objected the indecency of encroaching on his life , and the danger of provoking him by such an unseasonable demand . 
Lucius , afraid lest I should change my affection in absence , diverted me from my design by dissuasives to which my passions easily listened . 
My condition was soon known , and I was no longer admitted by the father of Flavilla . 
I repeated the protestations of regard , which had been formerly returned with so much ardour , in a letter which she received privately , but returned by her father's footman . 
I am now going to pursue my former projects with a legacy which my uncle bequeathed me , and if I succeed , shall expect to hear of the repentance of Flavilla . 
I am , Sir , Yours , c . 
TUESDAY , JANUARY , Laudis amore tumes ? sunt certa piacula , quoe te Ter pure lecto poterunt recreare libella . 
Or art thou vain ? books yield a certain spell To stop thy tumour you shall cease to swell When you have read them thrice , and studied well . 
Some will always mistake the degree of their own desert , and some will desire that others may mistake it . 
The cunning will have recourse to stratagem , and the powerful to violence , for the attainment of their wishes some will stoop to theft , and others venture upon plunder . 
Praise is so pleasing to the mind of man , that it is the original motive of almost all our actions . 
To be praised , therefore , every man resolves but resolutions will not execute themselves . 
Among the innumerable bidders for praise , some are willing to purchase at the highest rate , and offer ease and health , fortune and life . 
But ambition and vanity generally expect to be gratified on easier terms . 
Hunger is never delicate they who are seldom gorged to the full with praise , may be safely fed with gross compliments for the appetite must be satisfied before it is disgusted . 
It is easy to find the moment at which vanity is eager for sustenance , and all that impudence or servility can offer will be well received . 
When any one complains of the want of what he is known to possess in an uncommon degree , he certainly waits with impatience to be contradicted . 
Recte is dicitur laudare sese , cui nemo alius contigit laudator . 
It is right , says Erasmus , that he , whom no one else will commend , should bestow commendations on himself . 
Every other enjoyment malice may destroy every other panegyrick envy may withhold but no human power can deprive the boaster of his own encomiums . 
This art of happiness has been long practised by periodical writers , with little apparent violation of decency . 
Three times I sent it to the printer , and three times I fetched it back . 
SATURDAY , JANUARY , Si damnosa senem juvat alea , ludit et heres Bullatus , parvoque eadem movet arma fritillo . 
If gaming does an aged sire entice , Then my young master swiftly learns the vice , And shakes in hanging sleeves the little box and dice . 
I shall therefore continue my narrative without preface or recapitulation . 
My pupil , in a very short time , by his mother's countenance and direction , accomplished himself with all those qualifications which constitute puerile politeness . 
In less than a month his mother declared her satisfaction at his proficiency by a triumphant observation , that she believed NOTHING WOULD MAKE HIM BLUSH . 
All this my pupil pursues with great application . 
Such have been his endeavours , and such his assistances , that every trace of literature was soon obliterated . 
Women , by whatever fate , always judge absurdly of the intellects of boys . 
How he supports a character which , perhaps , no man ever assumed without repentance , may be easily conjectured . 
Whatever may be the native vigour of the mind , she can never form many combinations from few ideas , as many changes cannot be rung upon a few bells . 
He therefore returns every day to the charge with increase of courage , though not of strength , and practises all the tricks by which wit is counterfeited . 
He at last imagines himself qualified to enter the world , and has met with adventures in his first sally , which I shall , by your paper , communicate to the publick . 
TUESDAY , JANUARY , Nescit equo rudis Haerere ingenuus puer , Venarique timet doctior , Seu Graeco jubeas trocho , Seu malis vetita legibus alea . 
SIR , FAVOURS of every kind are doubled when they are speedily conferred . 
This is particularly true of the gratification of curiosity . 
He was therefore contented , for a time , that I should accompany him in all his excursions . 
His footman privately procured him a catcall , on which he practised in a back garret for two hours in the afternoon . 
At the proper time a chair was called he pretended an engagement at lady Flutter's , and hastened to the place where his critical associates had assembled . 
At last the assailants were overpowered , and the chairmen , when they knew their captives , brought them home by force . 
This indulgence could not wholly preserve him from the remembrance of his disgrace , nor at once restore his confidence and elation . 
He was for three days silent , modest , and compliant , and thought himself neither too wise for instruction , nor too manly for restraint . 
I knew that he was now rising again above control , and that his inflation of spirits would burst out into some mischievous absurdity . 
I therefore watched him with great attention but one evening , having attended his mother at a visit , he withdrew himself , unsuspected , while the company was engaged at cards . 
At last the lady returned home , and was with great difficulty preserved from fits by spirits and cordials . 
Of this loss or robbery , he gave little account but , instead of sinking into his former shame , endeavoured to support himself by surliness and asperity . 
There was now no time to be lost . 
SATURDAY , FEBRUARY , Multa ferunt anni venientes commoda secum , Multa recedentes adimunt . 
The blessings flowing in with life's full tide , Down with our ebb of life decreasing glide . 
This revolution of sentiments occasions a perpetual contest between the old and young . 
We naturally indulge those ideas that please us . 
Hope will predominate in every mind , till it has been suppressed by frequent disappointments . 
He who has seen only the superficies of life believes everything to be what it appears , and rarely suspects that external splendour conceals any latent sorrow or vexation . 
He never imagines that there may be greatness without safety , affluence without content , jollity without friendship , and solitude without peace . 
He fancies himself permitted to cull the blessings of every condition , and to leave its inconveniences to the idle and the ignorant . 
He hears all this with obstinate incredulity , and wonders by what malignity old age is influenced , that it cannot forbear to fill his ears with predictions of misery . 
Among other pleasing errours of young minds , is the opinion of their own importance . 
He therefore considers his fame as involved in the event of every action . 
Many of the virtues and vices of youth proceed from this quick sense of reputation . 
This it is that gives firmness and constancy , fidelity , and disinterestedness , and it is this that kindles resentment for slight injuries , and dictates all the principles of sanguinary honour . 
Such is the condition of life , that something is always wanting to happiness . 
In youth , we have warm hopes , which are soon blasted by rashness and negligence , and great designs , which are defeated by inexperience . 
TUESDAY , FEBRUARY , Cujus vulturis hoc erit cadaver ? MART . 
Say , to what vulture's share this carcase falls ? F. LEWIS . 
I was soon sagacious enough to discover that I was not born to great wealth and having heard no other name for happiness , was sometimes inclined to repine at my condition . 
These splendid expectations arose from our alliance to three persons of considerable fortune . 
My mother's aunt had attended on a lady , who , when she died , rewarded her officiousness and fidelity with a large legacy . 
But we had peculiar advantages , which encouraged us to hope , that we should by degrees supplant our competitors . 
Business made frequent attendance necessary trust soon produced intimacy and success gave a claim to kindness so that we had opportunity to practise all the arts of flattery and endearment . 
She trained me by these precepts to the utmost ductility of obedience , and the closest attention to profit . 
The old gentlewoman thought herself wiser than both , for she lived with no servant but a maid , and saved her money . 
What these advantages enabled me to perform , shall be told in the next letter of , Yours , c . 
Nil mihi das das vivus dicis , post fata daturum . 
Si non es stultus , scis , Maro , quid cupiam . 
You've told me , Maro , whilst you live , You'd not a single penny give , But that whene'er you chance to die . 
You'd leave a handsome legacy You must be mad beyond redress , If my next wish you cannot guess . 
Nothing is more common than for those to tease their companions with their history , who have neither done nor suffered any thing that can excite curiosity , or afford instruction . 
Life cannot be kept at a stand the years of innocence and prattle were soon at an end , and other qualifications were necessary to recommend me to continuance of kindness . 
It luckily happened that none of my friends had high notions of book learning . 
To unite , as well as we could , all their systems , I was bred at home . 
I admired the courage of the seamen , and gained his heart by importuning him for a recital of his adventures , and a sight of his foreign curiosities . 
The squire I was able to please with less hypocrisy , for I really thought it pleasant enough to kill the game and eat it . 
The old chambermaid was not so certainly , nor so easily pleased , for she had no predominant passion but avarice , and was therefore cold and inaccessible . 
She had no conception of any virtue in a young man but that of saving his money . 
This sullen and frigid being I found means , however , to propitiate by frequent commendations of frugality , and perpetual care to avoid expense . 
From the sailor was our first and most considerable expectation for he was richer than the chambermaid and older than the squire . 
All this had no effect the sailor was wholly insusceptive of the softer passions , and , without regard to tears or arguments , persisted in his resolution to make me a man . 
We were obliged to comply in appearance , and preparations were accordingly made . 
I was sent to regain my flesh in a purer air , lest it should appear never to have been wasted , and in two months returned to deplore my disappointment . 
My uncle pitied my dejection , and bid me prepare myself against next year , for no land lubber should touch his money . 
Cowardice is always scorned , and deceit universally detested . 
Thus has the folly of my parents condemned me to spend in flattery and attendance those years in which I might have been qualified to place myself above hope or fear . 
TUESDAY , FEBRUARY , Decolor , obscurus , vilis . 
Non ille repexam Caesariem Regum , nec candida virginis ornat Colla , nec insigni splendet per cingula morsu . 
Sed nova si nigri videas miracula saxi , Tum pulcros superat cultus , et quidquid Eois Indus litoribus rubra scrutatur in alga . 
Many have signalized themselves by melting their estates in crucibles . 
c In the sixth chapter of Rasselas we have an excellent story of an experimentalist in the art of flying . 
Johnson sketched perhaps from life , for we are informed that he once lodged in the same house with a man who broke his legs in the daring attempt . 
I have for some time employed myself in the same practice , but with deeper knowledge and more extensive views . 
The calamita , or loadstone that attracts iron , produces many bad fantasies in man . 
Women fly from this stone . 
If therefore any husband be disturbed with jealousy , and fear lest his wife converses with other men , let him lay this stone upon her while she is asleep . 
When I first read this wonderful passage , I could not easily conceive why it had remained hitherto unregarded in such a zealous competition for magnetical fame . 
Almost every man is careless or timorous , and to trust is easier and safer than to examine . 
With these hopes I shall , in a short time , offer to sale magnets armed with a particular metallick composition , which concentrates their virtue , and determines their agency . 
The secret of this metal I shall carefully conceal , and , therefore , am not afraid of imitators , nor shall trouble the offices with solicitations for a patent . 
I shall sell them of different sizes , and various degrees of strength . 
I have some of a bulk proper to be hung at the bed's head , as scare crows , and some so small that they may be easily concealed . 
As it is my practice honestly to tell my customers the properties of my magnets , I can judge , by their choice , of the delicacy of their sentiments . 
Many have been content to spare cost by purchasing only the lowest degree of efficacy , and all have started with terrour from those which operate upon the thoughts . 
Hoc face , et esto , Esto , ut nunc multi , dives tibi , pauper amicis . 
What Seneca , what Piso us'd to send , To raise or to support a sinking friend . 
We set out in the world together and for a long time mutually assisted each other in our exigencies , as either happened to have money or influence beyond his immediate necessities . 
I kept my promise , but found that the impatience of my friend arose not from any desire to communicate his happiness , but to enjoy his superiority . 
He then informed me , that Prospero desired my company , and shewed the staircase carefully secured by mats from the pollution of my feet . 
I put the chair aside with my foot , and drew another so hastily , that I was entreated not to rumple the carpet . 
My patience was yet not wholly subdued . 
I was willing to promote his satisfaction , and therefore observed that the figures on the china were eminently pretty . 
Prospero had now an opportunity of calling for his Dresden china , which , says he , I always associate with my chased tea kettle . 
The cups were brought I once resolved not to have looked upon them , but my curiosity prevailed . 
When I had examined them a little , Prospero desired me to set them down , for they who were accustomed only to common dishes , seldom handled china with much care . 
You will , I hope , commend my philosophy , when I tell you that I did not dash his baubles to the ground . 
I had no inclination to any other favours , and therefore left him without any intention of seeing him again , unless some misfortune should restore his understanding . 
Such improprieties often proceed rather from stupidity than malice . 
They are often innocent of the pain which their vanity produces , and insult others when they have no worse purpose than to please themselves . 
He that too much refines his delicacy will always endanger his quiet . 
But , whatever be the motive of insult , it is always best to overlook it , for folly scarcely can deserve resentment , and malice is punished by neglect d . 
d Garrick's little vanities are recognized by all in the character of Prospero . 
Mr. Boswell informs us , that he never forgave its pointed satire . 
TUESDAY , FEBRUARY , Sanctus haberi Justitiaeque tenax factis dictisque mereris , Adnosco procerem . 
There are , in like manner , several moral excellencies distributed among the different classes of a community . 
So much are the modes of excellence settled by time and place , that men may be heard boasting in one street of that which they would anxiously conceal in another . 
Every man has daily occasion to remark what vexations arise from this privilege of deceiving one another . 
Negligence is first admitted in small affairs , and strengthened by petty indulgences . 
Aliger entered the world a youth of lively imagination , extensive views , and untainted principles . 
Aliger was pleased with this general smile of mankind , and was industrious to preserve it by compliance and officiousness , but did not suffer his desire of pleasing to vitiate his integrity . 
He spent the evening , as is usual in the rudiments of vice , in perturbation and imperfect enjoyment , and met his disappointed friends in the morning with confusion and excuses . 
The absent were immediately forgotten , and the hopes or fears felt by others , had no influence upon his conduct . 
He courted a young lady , and when the settlements were drawn , took a ramble into the country on the day appointed to sign them . 
He resolved to travel , and sent his chests on shipboard , but delayed to follow them till he lost his passage . 
He was summoned as an evidence in a cause of great importance , and loitered on the way till the trial was past . 
His benevolence draws him into the commission of a thousand crimes , which others less kind or civil would escape . 
This character , however contemptible , is not peculiar to Aliger . 
SATURDAY , FEBRUARY , gr Pr ooes apanta deil ooes o p enhs pr agmata , gr Kaioe pantas auoeto u ? cataprone i ? n upolambanei . 
gr 'O deoe metrioews prattwn periscelesteron gr Apanta t aoeniaraoe Dampria , peret . 
From no affliction is the poor exempt , He thinks each eye surveys him with contempt Unmanly poverty subdues the heart , Cankers each wound , and sharpens ev'ry dart . 
But it will be found upon a nearer view , that they who extol the happiness of poverty , do not mean the same state with those who deplore its miseries . 
To be poor , in the epick language , is only not to command the wealth of nations , nor to have fleets and armies in pay . 
Vanity has perhaps contributed to this impropriety of style . 
As little is the general condition of human life understood by the panegyrists and historians , who amuse us with accounts of the poverty of heroes and sages . 
Riches are of no value in themselves , their use is discovered only in that which they procure . 
The same fallacy has conciliated veneration to the religious orders . 
TUESDAY , FEBRUARY , Cum volet illa dies , quae nil nisi corporis hujus Jus habett , incerti spatium mihi finiat oevi . 
Come , soon or late , death's undetermin'd day , This mortal being only can decay . 
IT seems to be the fate of man to seek all his consolations in futurity . 
The time present is seldom able to fill desire or imagination with immediate enjoyment , and we are forced to supply its deficiencies by recollection or anticipation . 
This is perhaps one reason , among many , why age delights in narratives . 
But so full is the world of calamity , that every source of pleasure is polluted , and every retirement of tranquillity disturbed . 
There are few higher gratifications , than that of reflection on surmounted evils , when they are not incurred nor protracted by our fault , and neither approach us with cowardice nor guilt . 
But this felicity is almost always abated by the reflection that they with whom we should be most pleased to share it are now in the grave . 
Among Martial's requisites to happiness is , Res non parta labore , sed relicta , an estate not gained by industry , but left by inheritance . 
Thus every period of life is obliged to borrow its happiness from the time to come . 
In youth we have nothing past to entertain us , and in age , we derive little from retrospect but hopeless sorrow . 
Yet the future likewise has its limits , which the imagination dreads to approach , but which we see to be not far distant . 
There is never room in the world for more than a certain quantity or measure of renown . 
The necessary business of life , the immediate pleasures or pains of every condition , leave us not leisure beyond a fixed proportion for contemplations which do not forcibly influence our present welfare . 
When this vacuity is filled , no characters can be admitted into the circulation of fame , but by occupying the place of some that must be thrust into oblivion . 
The eye of the mind , like that of the body , can only extend its view to new objects , by losing sight of those which are now before it . 
It is not therefore from this world , that any ray of comfort can proceed , to cheer the gloom of the last hour . 
This happiness we may expect with confidence , because it is out of the power of chance , and may be attained by all that sincerely desire and earnestly pursue it . 
On this therefore every mind ought finally to rest . 
Hope is the chief blessing of man , and that hope only is rational , of which we are certain that it cannot deceive us . 
SATURDAY , FEBRUARY , Nemo tam divos habuit favintis , Crastinum ut possit sibi polliceri . 
Of heaven's protection who can be So confident to utter this ? To morrow I will spend in bliss . 
SEGED , lord of Ethiopia , to the inhabitants of the world To the sons of Presumption , humility and fear and to the daughters of Sorrow , content and acquiescence . 
All who have offended thee tremble in thy presence , and where ever thy voice is heard , it is obeyed . 
Thy throne is surrounded by armies , numerous as the locusts of the summer , and resistless as the blasts of pestilence . 
Thy magazines are stored with ammunition , thy treasures overflow with the tribute of conquered kingdoms . 
Plenty waves upon thy fields , and opulence glitters in thy cities . 
Thy nod is as the earthquake that shakes the mountains , and thy smile as the dawn of the vernal day . 
In thy hand is the strength of thousands , and thy health is the health of millions . 
Thy palace is gladdened by the song of praise , and thy path perfumed by the breath of benediction . 
Thy subjects gaze upon thy greatness , and think of danger or misery no more . 
I will retire , says he , for ten days from tumult and care , from counsels and decrees . 
Long quiet is not the lot of the governours of nations , but a cessation of ten days cannot be denied me . 
This short interval of happiness may surely be secured from the interruption of fear or perplexity , sorrow or disappointment . 
I will exclude all trouble from my abode , and remove from my thoughts whatever may confuse the harmony of the concert , or abate the sweetness of the banquet . 
I will fill the whole capacity of my soul with enjoyment , and try what it is to live without a wish unsatisfied . 
In one part of this extensive garden , were open walks for excursions in the morning in another , thick groves , and silent arbours , and bubbling fountains for repose at noon . 
Into this delicious region Seged summoned all the persons of his court , who seemed eminently qualified to receive or communicate pleasure . 
His call was readily obeyed the young , the fair , the vivacious , and the witty , were all in haste to be sated with felicity . 
They sailed jocund over the lake , which seemed to smooth its surface before them their passage was cheered with musick , and their hearts dilated with expectation . 
He immediately entered his chamber , to consider where he should begin his circle of happiness . 
He had all the artists of delight before him , but knew not whom to call , since he could not enjoy one , but by delaying the performance of another . 
He observed their depression , and was offended , for he found his vexation increased by those whom he expected to dissipate and relieve it . 
Such , said Seged , sighing , is the longest day of human existence before we have learned to use it , we find it at an end . 
He rose early the second morning , and resolved now to be happy . 
This edict was immediately made known in every chamber of the court , and bower of the gardens . 
Seged now met every face settled in a smile but a smile that betrayed solicitude , timidity , and constraint . 
He accosted his favourites with familiarity and softness but they durst not speak without premeditation , lest they should be convicted of discontent or sorrow . 
He at last relieved his companions from their terrours , and shut himself up in his chamber to ascertain , by different measures , the felicity of the succeeding days . 
It was now day , and fear was so strongly impressed on his mind , that he could sleep no more . 
He rose , but his thoughts were filled with the deluge and invasion , nor was he able to disengage his attention , or mingle with vacancy and ease in any amusement . 
Having been first disturbed by a dream , he afterwards grieved that a dream could disturb him . 
He at last discovered , that his terrours and grief were equally vain , and that to lose the present in lamenting the past , was voluntarily to protract a melancholy vision . 
The third day was now declining , and Seged again resolved to be happy on the morrow . 
TUESDAY , MARCH , Volat ambiguis Mobilis alis hora , nec ulli Praestat velox Fortuna fidem . 
On fickle wings the minutes haste , And fortune's favours never last . 
ON the fourth morning Seged rose early , refreshed with sleep , vigorous with health , and eager with expectation . 
The sun played upon the water , the birds warbled in the groves , and the gales quivered among the branches . 
Thus the day rolled on , without any accident of vexation , or intrusion of melancholy thoughts . 
A young crocodile had risen out of the lake , and was ranging the garden in wantonness or hunger . 
The princesses inclosed themselves in the palace , and could yet scarcely believe themselves in safety . 
Every attention was fixed upon the late danger and escape , and no mind was any longer at leisure for gay sallies or careless prattle . 
At this display of riches every eye immediately sparkled , and every tongue was busied in celebrating the bounty and magnificence of the emperour . 
Whatever we ardently wish to gain , we must in the same degree be afraid to lose , and fear and pleasure cannot dwell together . 
All was now care and solicitude . 
Seged soon saw that his caution had not been able to avoid offence . 
Behold here , said Seged , the condition of him who places his happiness in the happiness of others . 
He then retired to meditate , and , while the courtiers were repining at his distributions , saw the fifth sun go down in discontent . 
The next dawn renewed his resolution to be happy . 
This relaxation of regularity diffused a general complacence through the whole court , and the emperour imagined that he had at last found the secret of obtaining an interval of felicity . 
This charge affected him the more , as it was uttered by one whom he had always observed among the most abject of his flatterers . 
The reflection on his loss , his dishonour , and the miseries which his subjects suffered from the invader , filled him with sadness . 
On the eighth morning Seged was awakened early by an unusual hurry in the apartments , and inquiring the cause , was told that the princess Balkis was seized with sickness . 
He rose , and calling the physicians , found that they had little hope of her recovery . 
Here was an end of jollity all his thoughts were now upon his daughter , whose eyes he closed on the tenth day . 
Such were the days which Seged of Ethiopia had appropriated to a short respiration from the fatigues of war and the cares of government . 
This narrative he has bequeathed to future generations , that no man hereafter may presume to say , This day shall be a day of happiness . 
SATURDAY , MARCH , Propositi nondum pudet , atque eadem est mens , Ut bona summa putes , alien a vivere quadr a . 
WHEN Diogenes was once asked , what kind of wine he liked best ? he answered , That which is drunk at the cost of others . 
Nothing produces more singularity of manners and inconstancy of life , than the conflict of opposite vices in the same mind . 
Yet this conflict of desires sometimes produces wonderful efforts . 
Gulosulus entered the world without any eminent degree of merit but was careful to frequent houses where persons of rank resorted . 
Sometimes his lordship finds himself inclined to exhibit a specimen of raillery for the diversion of his guests , and Gulosulus always supplies him with a subject of merriment . 
His chief policy consists in selecting some dish from every course , and recommending it to the company , with an air so decisive , that no one ventures to contradict him . 
By this method of life Gulosulus has so impressed on his imagination the dignity of feasting , that he has no other topick of talk , or subject of meditation . 
His calendar is a bill of fare he measures the year by successive dainties . 
TUESDAY , MARCH , Solve senescentem mature sanus equum , ne Peccet ad extremum ridendus . 
SUCH is the emptiness of human enjoyment , that we are always impatient of the present . 
Few moments are more pleasing than those in which the mind is concerting measures for a new undertaking . 
From the first hint that weakens the fancy , till the hour of actual execution , all is improvement and progress , triumph and felicity . 
Every hour brings additions to the original scheme , suggests some new expedient to secure success , or discovers consequential advantages not hitherto foreseen . 
While preparations are made , and materials accumulated , day glides after day through elysian prospects , and the heart dances to the song of hope . 
Every desire , however innocent , grows dangerous , as by long indulgence it becomes ascendant in the mind . 
All attraction is increased by the approach of the attracting body . 
We never find ourselves so desirous to finish , as in the latter part of our work , or so impatient of delay , as when we know that delay cannot be long . 
Against the instillations of this frigid opiate , the heart should be secured by all the considerations which once concurred to kindle the ardour of enterprise . 
He , whom a doubtful promise of distant good could encourage to set difficulties at defiance , ought not to remit his vigour , when he has almost obtained his recompense . 
The masters of rhetorick direct , that the most forcible arguments be produced in the latter part of an oration , lest they should be effaced or perplexed by supervenient images . 
This precept may be justly extended to the series of life nothing is ended with honour , which does not conclude better than it began . 
It is not sufficient to maintain the first vigour for excellence loses its effect upon the mind by custom , as light after a time ceases to dazzle . 
Admiration must be continued by that novelty which first produced it , and how much soever is given , there must always be reason to imagine that more remains . 
For the prevention of that disgrace , which lassitude and negligence may bring at last upon the greatest performances , it is necessary to proportion carefully our labour to our strength . 
He that is himself weary will soon weary the publick . 
SATURDAY , MARCH , gr 'Hr acleitos egw . 
S ti me catw elcet' a . 
mousoi gr Ouc' um i ? n eoeponoun , to i ? s de m' eoepistamenois . 
S gr Eis eoemoioe anqrwpos trismurioi . 
S oi d' aoenariqmoi gr Ouoedeis . 
S ta u ? t' auoed y ? cai paraoe Persefonh . 
TIME , which puts an end to all human pleasures and sorrows , has likewise concluded the labours of the Rambler . 
Having supported , for two years , the anxious employment of a periodical writer , and multiplied my essays to upwards of two hundred , I have now determined to desist . 
The reasons of this resolution it is of little importance to declare , since justification is unnecessary when no objection is made . 
But I have no design to gratify pride by submission , or malice by lamentation nor think it reasonable to complain of neglect from those whose regard I never solicited . 
If I have not been distinguished by the distributors of literary honours , I have seldom descended to the arts by which favour is obtained . 
I have seen the meteors of fashions rise and fall , without any attempt to add a moment to their duration . 
To some , however , I am indebted for encouragement , and to others for assistance . 
My obligations having not been frequent , my acknowledgments may be soon despatched . 
The supplications of an author never yet reprieved him a moment from oblivion and , though greatness has sometimes sheltered guilt , it can afford no protection to ignorance or dulness . 
A mask , say Castiglione , confers a right of acting and speaking with less restraint , even when the wearer happens to be known . 
I am willing to flatter myself with hopes , that , by collecting these papers , I am not preparing , for my future life , either shame or repentance . 
Whatever shall be the final sentence of mankind , I have at least endeavoured to deserve their kindness . 
I have laboured to refine our language to grammatical purity , and to clear it from colloquial barbarisms , licentious idioms , and irregular combinations . 
Something , perhaps , I have added to the elegance of its construction , and something to the harmony of its cadence . 
As it has been my principal design to inculcate wisdom or piety , I have allotted few papers to the idle sports of imagination . 
Next to the excursions of fancy are the disquisitions of criticism , which , in my opinion , is only to be ranked among the subordinate and instrumental arts . 
Arbitrary decision and general exclamation I have carefully avoided , by asserting nothing without a reason , and establishing all my principles of judgment on unalterable and evident truth . 
I therefore look back on this part of my work with pleasure , which no blame or praise of man shall diminish or augment . 
gr Auoet w ? n eoec macarwn aoentaxios eih aoemoib h . 
Celestial pow'rs ! that piety regard , From you my labours wait their last reward . 
Has toties optata exegit gloria poenas . 
Such fate pursues the votaries of praise . 
SIR , Fleet Prison , Feb . 
TO a benevolent disposition , every state of life will afford some opportunities of contributing to the welfare of mankind . 
Sed revocare gradum , superasque evadere ad auras , Hoc opus , hic labor est . 
Velours and d'Espagne stand indebted for a great part of their present influence at Guildhall , to the elegance of my shape , and the graceful freedom of my carriage . 
Sed quae praeclara et prospera tanti , Ut rebus laetis par sit mensura malorum ? JUV . 
Glut yourself with cabbage , of which you have always been greedy . 
Amidst such giddy and thoughtless extravagance , it will not seem strange , that I was often the dupe of coarse flattery . 
I am , Sir , Your humble servant , MISARGYRUS . 
e For an account of the disputes raised on this paper , and on the other letters of Misargyrus , see Preface . 
TUESDAY , MARCH , gr 'Oduseuoes fulloisi caluyato' t y ? d' ar' 'Aq hnh gr Gpnon eoep' ommasi ce u ? , ina min pauseie tacista gr Duspon es cam atoio . 
Pallas pour'd sweet slumbers on his soul And balmy dreams , the gift of soft repose , Calm'd all his pains , and banish'd all his woes . 
Nor have the poets been always deficient in her praises Milton has observed of the night , that it is the pleasant time , the cool , the silent . 
Sleep is necessary to the happy to prevent satiety , and to endear life by a short absence and to the miserable , to relieve them by intervals of quiet . 
Men of study and imagination are frequently upbraided by the industrious and plodding sons of care , with passing too great a part of their life in a state of inaction . 
The poets , among all those that enjoy the blessings of sleep , have been least ashamed to acknowledge their benefactor . 
Si quis invisum Cereri benignae Me putat germen , vehementer errat Illa me in partem recipit libenter Fertilis agri . 
Meque frumentumque simul per omnes Consulens mundo Dea spargit oras Creseite , O ! dixit , duo magna susten tacula vitae . 
Carpe , mortalis , mea dona laetus , Carpe , nec plantas alias require , Sed satur panis , satur et soporis , Caetera sperne . 
From the German of Schmidt . 
Th' attempt forsake , And not my chariot but my counsel take While yet securely on the earth you stand Nor touch the horses with too rash a hand . 
SIR , Fleet , March . 
I shall proceed , therefore , to finish my career , and pass as rapidly as possible through the remaining vicissitudes of my life . 
When I first began to be in want of money , I made no doubt of an immediate supply . 
The newspapers were perpetually offering directions to men , who seemed to have no other business than to gather heaps of gold for those who place their supreme felicity in scattering it . 
with another panegyrick upon his own moderation . 
during the joint lives of his daughter Nancy Squeeze and myself . 
Having yet credit with a jeweller , I afterwards procured a ring of thirty guineas , which I humbly presented , and was soon admitted to a treaty with Mr. Squeeze . 
He appeared peevish and backward , and my old friend whispered me , that he would never make a dry bargain I therefore invited him to a tavern . 
Nine times we met on the affair nine times I paid four pounds for the supper and claret and nine guineas I gave the agent for good offices . 
I then obtained the money , paying ten per cent . 
advance and at the tenth meeting gave another supper , and disbursed fifteen pounds for the writings . 
Others who styled themselves brokers , would only trust their money upon goods that I might , therefore , try every art of expensive folly , I took a house and furnished it . 
I then found that I was to maintain a guardian about me to prevent the goods from being broken or removed . 
By such means I had so embarrassed myself , that my whole attention was engaged in contriving excuses , and raising small sums to quiet such as words would no longer mollify . 
It cost me eighty pounds in presents to Mr. Leech the attorney , for his forbearance of one hundred , which he solicited me to take when I had no need . 
I was perpetually harassed with importunate demands , and insulted by wretches , who a few months before would not have dared to raise their eyes from the dust before me . 
I lived in continual terrour , frighted by every noise at the door , and terrified at the approach of every step quicker than common . 
Nothing now remained , but the chance of extricating myself by marriage a scheme which , I flattered myself , nothing but my present distress would have made me think on with patience . 
I determined , therefore , to look out for a tender novice , with a large fortune , at her own disposal and accordingly fixed my eyes upon Miss Biddy Simper . 
Those days were now over and there was little hope that they would ever return . 
Delay would have been expensive without use , as the debt was too considerable for payment or bail I , therefore , suffered myself to be immediately conducted to gaol . 
Vestibulum ante ipsum , primisque in faucibus Orci , Luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia cureae Pallentesque habitant morbi , tristisque senectus , Et metus , et malesuada fames , et turpis egestas . 
Just in the gate and in the jaws of hell , Revengeful cares and sullen sorrows dwell And pale diseases , and repining age Want , fear , and famine's unresisted rage . 
TUESDAY , APRIL , Nulla fides regni sociis , omnisque potestas Impatiens consortis erit . 
No faith of partnership dominion owns Still discord hovers o'er divided thrones . 
Hills , vales and floods appear already crost And , ere he starts , a thousand steps are lost . 
Of this tempting , this delusive kind , is the expectation of great performances by confederated strength . 
But this gigantick phantom of collective power vanishes at once into air and emptiness , at the first attempt to put it into action . 
The different apprehensions , the discordant passions , the jarring interests of men , will scarcely permit that many should unite in one undertaking . 
The history of mankind informs us that a single power is very seldom broken by a confederacy . 
From the impossibility of confining numbers to the constant and uniform prosecution of a common interest , arises the difficulty of securing subjects against the encroachment of governours . 
There never appear , says Swift , more than five or six men of genius in an age but if they were united , the world could not stand before them . 
It is happy , therefore , for mankind , that of this union there is no probability . 
But discord , who found means to roll her apple into the banqueting chamber of the goddesses , has had the address to scatter her laurels in the seminaries of learning . 
g It may not be uninteresting to place in immediate comparison with this finished paper its first rough draught as given in Boswell , vol . 
Seldom in war a match for single persons nor in peace therefore kings make themselves absolute . 
Confederacies in learning every great work the work of one . 
The apple of discord the laurel of discord the poverty of criticism . 
Swift's opinion of the power of six geniuses united . 
His remarks just man a social , not steady nature . 
Drawn to man by words , repelled by passions . 
Orb drawn by attraction , rep . 
Common danger unites by crushing other passions but they return . 
Superiority produces insolence and envy . 
Too much regard in each to private interest too little . 
The mischiefs of private and exclusive societies . 
The fitness of social attraction diffused through the whole . 
The mischiefs of too partial love of our country . 
gr Oi filoi , o u ? filos . 
Every man moves upon his own centre , and therefore repels others from too near a contact , though he may comply with some general laws . 
Of confederacy with superiors every one knows the inconvenience . 
With equals no authority every man his own opinion his own interest . 
Man and wife hardly united scarce ever without children . 
Computation , if two to one against two , how many against five ? If confederacies were easy useless many oppresses many . 
If possible only to some , dangerous . 
SATURDAY , APRIL , Quincunque turpi fraude semel innotuit , Etiamsi verum dicit , amittit fidem . 
The wretch that often has deceiv'd , Though truth he speaks , is ne'er believ'd . 
WHEN Aristotle was once asked , what a man could gain by uttering falsehoods ? he replied , Not to be credited when he shall tell the truth . 
To vanity may justly be imputed most of the falsehoods which every man perceives hourly playing upon his ear , and , perhaps , most of those that are propagated with success . 
But vanity pleases herself with such slight gratifications , and looks forward to pleasure so remotely consequential , that her practices raise no alarm , and her stratagems are not easily discovered . 
It is remarked by Sir Kenelm Digby , that every man has a desire to appear superior to others , though it were only in having seen what they have not seen . 
He sets his invention to work again , and produces a narrative of a robbery or a murder , with all the circumstances of time and place accurately adjusted . 
There is , I think , an ancient law of Scotland , by which LEASING MAKING was capitally punished . 
TUESDAY , MAY , Quisque suos patimur manes . 
Each has his lot , and bears the fate he drew . 
SIR , Fleet , May . 
IN consequence of my engagements , I address you once more from the habitations of misery . 
One of the most eminent members of our club is Mr. Edward Scamper , a man of whose name the Olympick heroes would not have been ashamed . 
The next in seniority is Mr. Timothy Snug , a man of deep contrivance and impenetrable secrecy . 
His father died with the reputation of more wealth than he possessed Tim , therefore , entered the world with a reputed fortune of ten thousand pounds . 
Another that joins in the same mess is Bob Cornice , whose life has been spent in fitting up a house . 
About ten years ago Bob purchased the country habitation of a bankrupt the mere shell of a building Bob holds no great matter the inside is the test of elegance . 
SATURDAY , MAY , Damnant guod non intelligunt . 
They condemn what they do not understand . 
EURIPIDES , having presented Socrates with the writings of Heraclitus h , a philosopher famed for involution and obscurity , inquired afterwards his opinion of their merit . 
What I understand , said Socrates , I find to be excellent and , therefore , believe that to be of equal value which I cannot understand . 
h The obscurity of this philosopher's style is complained of by Aristotle in his treatise on Rhetoric , iii . 
Many passages yet undoubtedly remain in the same author , which an exacter knowledge of the incidents of his time would clear from objections . 
Among these I have always numbered the following lines Aurum per medios ire satellites , Et perrumpere amat saxa , potentius Ictu fulmineo . 
Concidit auguris Argivi domus ob lucrum Demersa exitio . 
Diffidit urbium Portas vir Macedo , et subruit aemulos Regis muneribus Munera navium Saevos illaqueant duces . 
Of the like kind may be reckoned another stanza in the same book Jussa coram non sine conscio Surgit marito , seu vocat institor , Seu navis Hispanae magister , Dedecorum pretiosus emptor . 
Varius , a swan of Homer's wing , Shall brave Agrippa's conquests sing . 
The most elegant compliment that was paid to Addison , is of this obscure and perishable kind When panting Virtue her last efforts made , You brought your Clio to the virgin's aid . 
These lines must please as long as they are understood but can be understood only by those that have observed Addison's signatures in the Spectator . 
The nicety of these minute allusions I shall exemplify by another instance , which I take this occasion to mention , because , as I am told , the commentators have omitted it . 
Tibullus addressed Cynthia in this manner Te spectem , suprema mihi cum venerit hora , Te teneam moriens deficiente manu . 
Before my closing eyes dear Cynthia stand , Held weakly by my fainting trembling hand . 
To these lines Ovid thus refers in his Elegy on the death of Tibullus Cynthia discedens , Felicius , inquit , amata Sum tibi vixisti dum tuus ignis eram . 
Cui Nemesis , quid , ait , tibi sint mea damna dolori ? Me tenuit moriens deficiente manu . 
Blest was my reign , retiring Cynthia cry'd Not till he left my breast , Tibullus dy'd . 
Forbear , said Nemesis , my loss to moan , The FAINTING TREMBLING HAND was mine alone . 
SATURDAY , JUNE , Of fortuna viris , invida fortibus Quam non aequa bonis praemia diridis . 
Capricious Fortune ever joys , With partial hand to deal the prize , To crush the brave and cheat the wise . 
TO THE ADVENTURER , SIR , Fleet , June . 
That this catalogue should be very numerous , neither you nor your readers ought to expect rari quippe boni the good are few . 
Virtue is uncommon in all the classes of humanity and I suppose it will scarcely be imagined more frequent in a prison than in other places . 
The friend of Serenus was arrested for debt , and after many endeavours to soften his creditor , sent his wife to solicit that assistance which never was refused . 
Another of our companions is Lentulus , a man whose dignity of birth was very ill supported by his fortune . 
I am , Sir , Your humble servant , MISARGYRUS . 
TUESDAY , JUNE , Inventas vitam excoluere per artes . 
They polish life by useful arts . 
THAT familiarity produces neglect , has been long observed . 
Thus it comes to pass , that our desires always increase with our possessions the knowledge that something remains yet unenjoyed , impairs our enjoyment of the good before us . 
It were a speculation worthy of a philosophical mind , to examine how much is taken away from our native abilities , as well as added to them , by artificial expedients . 
This picture of a savage life if it shows how much individuals may perform , shows likewise how much society is to be desired . 
TUESDAY , JULY , Fereoe libenter homines id quod volunt credunt . 
Men willingly believe what they wish to be true . 
Of every great and complicated event , part depends upon causes out of our power , and part must be effected by vigour and perseverance . 
At last his choice was settled and knowing that in order to borrow he must shew the probability of repayment , he prepared for a minute and copious explanation of his project . 
To this test let every man bring his imaginations , before they have been too long predominant in his mind . 
SATURDAY , JULY , Insansientis dum sapientiae Consultus erro . 
I missed my end , and lost my way By crack brain'd wisdom led astray . 
We are all naturally credulous in our own favour . 
Having been so often caressed and applauded for docility , I was willing to believe myself really enlightened by instruction , and completely qualified for the task of life . 
With regard to other qualifications I had an irreconcilable variety of instructions . 
Having been hitherto accustomed to obey , I ventured to dismiss Mr. Frisk , who happily did not think me worth the labour of a lampoon . 
Some , indeed , I was permitted to encourage but miscarried of the main end , by treating them according to the rules of art which had been prescribed me . 
I am , Sir , Your humble servant , PERDITA . 
TUESDAY , AUGUST , Nil desperandum . 
The opinion which a man entertains of himself ought to be distinguished , in order to an accurate discussion of this question , as it relates to persons or to things . 
He that has no hopes of success , will make no attempts and where nothing is attempted , nothing can be done . 
After a disputation of nine hours , he was presented by the president and professors with a diamond and a purse of gold , and dismissed with repeated acclamations . 
From Paris he went away to Rome , where he made the same challenge , and had in the presence of the pope and cardinals the same success . 
The duke with some reluctance consented , and on the day fixed the combatants appeared their weapon seems to have been single rapier , which was then newly introduced in Italy . 
The prize fighter advanced with great violence and fierceness , and Crichton contended himself calmly to ward his passes , and suffered him to exhaust his vigour by his own fury . 
The duke of Mantua , having received so many proofs of his various merit , made him tutor to his son Vicentio di Gonzaga , a prince of loose manners and turbulent disposition . 
On this occasion it was , that he composed the comedy in which he exhibited so many different characters with exact propriety . 
i This paper is enumerated by Chalmers among those which Johnson dictated , not to Bathurst , but to Hawkesworth . 
It is an elegant summary of Crichton's life which is in Mackenzie's Writers of the Scotch Nation . 
See a fuller account by the Earl of Buchan and Dr . 
and the recently published one by Mr. Frazer Tytler . 
SATURDAY , AUGUST , Tolle periclum , Jam vaga prosiliet frenis natura remotis . 
But take the danger and the shame away , And vagrant nature bounds upon her prey . 
That the position itself is true , I am not completely satisfied . 
j Johnson has made impressive allusion to the immortal work of Cervantes in his Second Rambler . 
Every reflecting man must arise from its perusal with feelings of the deepest melancholy , with the most tender commiseration for the weakness and lot of humanity . 
To such a man its moral must ever be profoundly sad . 
Vulgar minds cannot know it . 
Hence it has ever been the favorite with the intellectual class , while Gil Blas has more generally won the applause of men of the world . 
An amusing anecdote of the almost universal admiration for the chef d 'oeuvre of Le Sage may be found in Butler's Reminiscences . 
That bigotted , yet extraordinary man , Alva , predicted , with prophetic precision , the effects which the satire on Chivalry would produce in Spain . 
See Broad Stone of Honour , or Rules for the Gentlemen of England . 
On the day of our departure , in the twilight of the morning , I ascended the vehicle with three men and two women , my fellow travellers . 
It was easy to observe the affected elevation of mien with which every one entered , and the supercilious servility with which they paid their compliments to each other . 
It is always observable that silence propagates itself , and that the longer talk has been suspended , the more difficult it is to find any thing to say . 
We began now to wish for conversation but no one seemed inclined to descend from his dignity , or first propose a topick of discourse . 
The man of benevolence , to shew that he was not depressed by our neglect , hummed a tune , and beat time upon his snuff box . 
A general emulation seemed now to be excited . 
But , Mr. Adventurer , let not those who laugh at me and my companions , think this folly confined to a stage coach . 
I am , Sir , your humble servant , VIATOR . 
TUESDAY , AUGUST , Qui studet optatam cursu contingere metam , Multa tulit fecitque puer . 
The youth , who hopes th' Olympic prize to gain , All arts must try , and every toil sustain . 
IT is observed by Bacon , that reading makes a full man , conversation a ready man , and writing an exact man . 
k Scire tuum nihil est , nisi te scire hoc sciat alter . 
A ready man is made by conversation . 
Such was the dexterity with which this learned reader facilitated to his auditors the intricacies of science and so true is it , that a man may know what he cannot teach . 
Nor is this the only inconvenience which the man of study suffers from a recluse life . 
Some caution , therefore , must be used lest copiousness and facility be made less valuable by inaccuracy and confusion . 
To read , write , and converse in due proportions , is , therefore , the business of a man of letters . 
SATURDAY , SEPTEMBER , Cum tabulis animum censoris sumet honesti . 
Bold be the critick , zealous to his trust , Like the firm judge inexorably just . 
If we survey the ten pastorals in a general view , it will be found that Virgil can derive from them very little claim to the praise of an inventor . 
The fifth contains a celebration of Daphnis , which has stood to all succeeding ages as the model of pastoral elegies . 
In the Silenus he again rises to the dignity of philosophick sentiments , and heroick poetry . 
Of the eighth pastoral , so little is properly the work of Virgil , that he has no claim to other praise or blame than that of a translator . 
The first and the tenth pastorals , whatever be determined of the rest , are sufficient to place their author above the reach of rivalry . 
In the genuine language of despair , he soothes himself awhile with the pity that shall be paid him after his death . 
Tamen cantabitis , arcades , inquit , Montibus hoec vestris soli cantare periti Arcades . 
O mihi tum quam molliter ossa quiescant , Vestra meos olim si fistula dicat amores ! Virg . 
Yet , O Arcadian swains , Ye best artificers of soothing strains ! Tune your soft reeds , and teach your rocks my woes , So shall my shade in sweeter rest repose . 
O that your birth and business had been mine To feed the flock , and prune the spreading vine ! WARTON . 
Discontented with his present condition , and desirous to be any thing but what he is , he wishes himself one of the shepherds . 
Nunc insanus amor duri me Martis in armis Tela inter media atque adversos detinet hostes . 
tantum Alpinas , ah dura , nives , et frigora Rheni Me sine sola vides . 
Ah te ne frigora laedant ! Ah tibi ne teneras glacies secet aspera plantas ! Ec . 
Here cooling fountains roll through flow'ry meads , Here woods , Lycoris , lift their verdant heads Here could I wear my careless life away , And in thy arms insensibly decay . 
Ah ! may no cold e'er blast my dearest maid , Nor pointed ice thy tender feet invade . 
Omnia vincit amor et nos cedamus amori . 
Love over all maintains resistless sway , And let us love's all conquering power obey . 
But notwithstanding the excellence of the tenth pastoral , I cannot forbear to give the preference to the first , which is equally natural and more diversified . 
And lo ! sad partner of the general care . 
Fortunate senex ! hic inter flumina nota , Et fontes sacros , frigus captabis opacum . 
Hinc tibi , quae semper vicino ab limite sepes , Hyblaeis apibus florem depasta salicti , Saepe levi somnum suadebit inire susurro . 
Hinc alta sub rupe canet frondator ad auras . 
Nec tamen interea raucae , tua cura , palumbes , Nec gemere aeria cessabit turtur ab ulmo . 
Happy old man ! then still thy farms restored , Enough for thee , shall bless thy frugal board . 
What tho' rough stones the naked soil o'erspread , Or marshy bulrush rear its wat'ry head , No foreign food thy teeming ewes shall fear , No touch contagious spread its influence here . 
I am , Sir , Your humble servant , DUBIUS . 
TUESDAY , OCTOBER , Dulcique animos novitate tenebo . 
And with sweet novelty your soul detain . 
The allegation of resemblance between authors is indisputably true but the charge of plagiarism , which is raised upon it , is not to be allowed with equal readiness . 
A coincidence of sentiment may easily happen without any communication , since there are many occasions in which all reasonable men will nearly think alike . 
It will now be natural to inquire , by what arts are the writers of the present and future ages to attract the notice and favour of mankind . 
They are to observe the alterations which time is always making in the modes of life , that they may gratify every generation with a picture of themselves . 
TUESDAY , OCTOBER , Magnis tamen excidit ausis . 
But in the glorious enterprise he died . 
IT has always been the practice of mankind , to judge of actions by the event . 
Machiavel has justly animadverted on the different notice taken by all succeeding times , of the two great projectors , Cataline and Caesar . 
These are , indeed , events of ancient times but human nature is always the same , and every age will afford us instances of publick censures influenced by events . 
He found means to sooth them into a permission to continue the same course three days longer , and on the evening of the third day descried land . 
I would wish Caesar and Catiline , Xerxes and Alexander , Charles and Peter , huddled together in obscurity or detestation . 
When Rowley had completed the orrery , he attempted the perpetual motion when Boyle had exhausted the secrets of vulgar chymistry , he turned his thoughts to the work of transmutation l . 
l Sir Richard Steele was infatuated with notions of Alchemy , and wasted money in its visionary projects . 
He had a laboratory at Poplar . 
If they are , therefore , universally discouraged , art and discovery can make no advances . 
Men unaccustomed to reason and researches , think every enterprise impracticable , which is extended beyond common effects , or comprises many intermediate operations . 
SATURDAY , OCTOBER , Quid tam dextro pede concipis , ut te Conatus non poeniteat votique peracti ? JUV . 
What in the conduct of our life appears So well design'd , so luckily begun , But when we have our wish , we wish undone . 
SIR , I HAVE been for many years a trader in London . 
In a few years my industry and probity were fully recompensed , my wealth was really great , and my reputation for wealth still greater . 
At last I resolved to complete the circle of a citizen's prosperity by the purchase of an estate in the country , and to close my life in retirement . 
Here for some time I found happiness equal to my expectation . 
The fame of these expensive improvements brought in all the country to see the show . 
I now seldom see the rising sun , but to tell him , with the fallen angel , how I hate his beams m . 
I awake from sleep as to languor or imprisonment , and have no employment for the first hour but to consider by what art I shall rid myself of the second . 
m Johnson was too apt to destroy the KEEPING of character in his correspondences . 
Some good remarks on this point may be seen in Miss Talbot's Letters to Mrs. Carter . 
Such , Mr. Adventurer , is the happiness , the hope of which seduced me from the duties and pleasures of a mercantile life . 
These arts , Sir , I have tried . 
I never shot but to miss the mark , and , to confess the truth , was afraid of the fire of my own gun . 
I could discover no musick in the cry of the dogs , nor could divest myself of pity for the animal whose peaceful and inoffensive life was sacrificed to our sport . 
I then ordered books to be procured , and by the direction of the vicar had in a few weeks a closet elegantly furnished . 
I have no skill in controversial learning , nor can conceive why so many volumes should have been written upon questions , which I have lived so long and so happily without understanding . 
I am yours , c . 
TUESDAY , NOVEMBER , Sub judice lis est . 
And of their vain disputings find no end . 
In questions diffuse and compounded , this similarity of determination is no longer to be expected . 
n Livy has described the Achaean leader , Philopaemen , as actually so exercising his thoughts whilst he wandered among the rocky passes of the Morea , xxxv . 
We have less reason to be surprised or offended when we find others differ from us in opinion , because we very often differ from ourselves . 
This choice only , therefore , can be made , either never to receive being , or immediately to lose it o . 
o Count o'er the joys thine hours have seen , Count o'er thy days from anguish free , And know , whatever thou hast been , 'Tis something better not to be . 
Compare also the plaintive chorus in the OEdipus at Colonos , . 
Among the tragedies of Sophocles this stands forth a mass of feeling . 
See Schlegel's remarks upon it in his Dramatic Literature . 
Such and so gloomy is the prospect , which Posidippus has laid before us . 
You may pass well through any of the paths of life . 
It will , therefore , never be a wise man's choice , either not to obtain existence , or to lose it for every state of life has its felicity . 
Whether a publick station or private life be desirable , has always been debated . 
Life is not the object of science we see a little , very little and what is beyond we only can conjecture . 
If we inquire of those who have gone before us , we receive small satisfaction some have travelled life without observation , and some willingly mislead us . 
SATURDAY , NOVEMBER , Nobis , quum semel occidit brevis lux , Nox est perpetua una dormienda . 
When once the short liv'd mortal dies , A night eternal seals his eyes . 
IT may have been observed by every reader , that there are certain topicks which never are exhausted . 
Such was the end of Euryalus . 
The common neglect of the present hour is more shameful and criminal , as no man is betrayed to it by errour , but admits it by negligence . 
The markings are not the correct symbol but rather the closest equivalent accented character . 
the encoded characters used include AE , ae , oe , , ! , ? , , , OE , and S . 
Hebrew occurs once and is encoded in hb format with a mnemonic that has not been standardized yet thus needs checked . 
three flavors of hyphen are used in the . 
Two tricks are implemented in the . 
only Hrt Lft Tab get converted to Hrt Hrt and not Hrt Lft Tab cases . 
sc small caps have not been encoded in this etext . 
Emphasis italics have a mark . 
Footnotes are moved to end of paragraphs cited . 
Ch au m Ring Swedish AA ngstr om Tilde Spanish se n ? or Dot Hebrew Ab i . 
bean depag , quote marks , underscores straightened up footnotes . 
some encodes removed , left gr and hb alone except for familiar encodes . 
I'd dump the greek , or start over with it . 
I tried to get a copy of this , but THE RAMBLER is apparently in volumes in other sets , and I got the wrong one . 
Did not read or spell check this . 
