Sketches of Young Gentlemen by Charles Dickens . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
And your Dedicator shall ever pray , c . 
THE BASHFUL YOUNG GENTLEMAN We found ourself seated at a small dinner party the other day , opposite a stranger of such singular appearance and manner , that he irresistibly attracted our attention . 
His whole face was suffused with a crimson blush , and bore that downcast , timid , retiring look , which betokens a man ill at ease with himself . 
The young gentleman seated himself at table with evident misgivings , and turning sharp round to pay attention to some observation of his loquacious neighbour , overset his bread . 
We thought the bashful young gentleman would have gone off in an apoplectic fit , consequent upon the violent rush of blood to his face at the occurrence of this catastrophe . 
From this moment we perceived , in the phraseology of the fancy , that it was 'all up' with the bashful young gentleman , and so indeed it was . 
If the bashful young gentleman , in turning a street corner , chance to stumble suddenly upon two or three young ladies of his acquaintance , nothing can exceed his confusion and agitation . 
'Well , Mr. Hopkins ! cries the young lady , 'why , we heard she was bled yesterday evening , and have been perfectly miserable about her . 
'Oh , ah , says the young gentleman , 'so she was . 
Oh , she's very ill , very ill indeed . 
, and after a short pause , gives his glove a great wrench at the wrist , and says , with a strong emphasis on the adjective , 'GOOD morning , GOOD morning . 
'Miss Lambert , let me introduce Mr. Hopkins for the next quadrille . 
Miss Lambert inclines her head graciously . 
Mr. Hopkins bows , and his fair conductress disappears , leaving Mr. Hopkins , as he too well knows , to make himself agreeable . 
Bashful young gentlemen should be cured , or avoided . 
THE OUT AND OUT YOUNG GENTLEMAN Out and out young gentlemen may be divided into two classes those who have something to do , and those who have nothing . 
I shall commence with the former , because that species come more frequently under the notice of young ladies , whom it is our province to warn and to instruct . 
Out of doors he sometimes carries a large ash stick , but only on special occasions , for he prefers keeping his hands in his coat pockets . 
He smokes at all hours , of course , and swears considerably . 
having no notion of life or gaiety , are far too weak spirited and moping for him . 
, to be a brother out and outer , and towards whom he accordingly makes his way . 
He is of any age between twenty and forty , unmarried of course , must be fond of children , and is expected to make himself generally useful if possible . 
Let us illustrate our meaning by an example , which is the shortest mode and the clearest . 
We readily assented , adding , that we hoped we should be alone . 
'Oh , certainly , certainly , said our friend , 'not a soul with us but Mincin . 
'And who is Mincin ? was our natural inquiry . 
'O don't mind him , replied our friend , 'he's a most particular friend of mine , and a very friendly fellow you will find him and so he left us . 
It required no great penetration on our part to discover at once that Mr. Mincin was in every respect a very friendly young gentleman . 
Who the deuce , he should like to know , did they suppose cared about them ? that struck him as being the best of it . 
offered some general remarks upon the nature and treatment of colds in the head , which occupied us agreeably until dinner time . 
During the meal , he devoted himself to complimenting everybody , not forgetting himself , so that we were an uncommonly agreeable quartette . 
Sweet woman , Mrs. Capper , sir ! 'Nay , Mincin I beg , interposed the host , as we were about to reply that Mrs. Capper unquestionably was particularly sweet . 
'Pray , Mincin , don't . 
Finally , our friend having emptied his glass , said , 'God bless you , Mincin , and Mr. Mincin and he shook hands across the table with much affection and earnestness . 
But great as the friendly young gentleman is , in a limited scene like this , he plays the same part on a larger scale with increased ECLAT . 
If anybody's self love is to be flattered , Mr. Mincin is at hand . 
If anybody's overweening vanity is to be pampered , Mr. Mincin will surfeit it . 
not only red coats , but very resplendent and massive badges besides much larger than epaulettes . 
For 'heads' we had written 'brains but upon consideration , we think the former the more appropriate word of the two . 
We will take this latter description of military young gentlemen first . 
The whole heart and soul of the military young gentleman are concentrated in his favourite topic . 
, after a prolonged inspection of the sentry , proceeded to handle his boots with great curiosity , and as much composure and indifference as if the man were wax work . 
, and takes the way towards the high street . 
Well may we inquire not in familiar jest , but in respectful earnest if you call that nothing . 
are keeping a sharp look out , and are ready for anything . 
He has also some choice sentences regarding church and state , culled from the banners in use at the last election , with which he intersperses his conversation at intervals with surprising effect . 
Perhaps his greatest topic of all , though , is the people . 
THE DOMESTIC YOUNG GENTLEMAN Let us make a slight sketch of our amiable friend , Mr. Felix Nixon . 
We are strongly disposed to think , that if we put him in this place , he will answer our purpose without another word of comment . 
Felix , then , is a young gentleman who lives at home with his mother , just within the twopenny post office circle of three miles from St . 
The two chief subjects of Felix's discourse , are himself and his mother , both of whom would appear to be very wonderful and interesting persons . 
As Felix and his mother are seldom apart in body , so Felix and his mother are scarcely ever separate in spirit . 
The recital of these and many other moving perils of the like nature , constantly harrows up the feelings of Mr. Nixon's friends . 
Tea being over , the young ladies resume their work , and Felix insists upon holding a skein of silk while Miss Thompson winds it on a card . 
have long ago set him down as a thorough old bachelor . 
Young ladies mildly call him a 'sarcastic' young gentleman , or a 'severe' young gentleman . 
We , who know better , beg to acquaint them with the fact , that he is merely a censorious young gentleman , and nothing else . 
As young ladies are generally not curious , but laudably desirous to acquire information , the censorious young gentleman is much talked about among them , and many surmises are hazarded regarding him . 
'I wonder , exclaims the eldest Miss Greenwood , laying down her work to turn up the lamp , 'I wonder whether Mr. Fairfax will ever be married . 
When the conversation ranges from the mystery overhanging the censorious young gentleman's behaviour , to the general topics of the day , he sustains his character to admiration . 
'But is not Mr. So and so's performance truly charming ? inquires a young lady . 
'Charming ! replies the censorious young gentleman . 
'Oh , dear , yes , certainly very charming oh , very charming indeed . 
Of music , pictures , books , and poetry , the censorious young gentleman has an equally fine conception . 
As to men and women , he can tell all about them at a glance . 
'Now let us hear your opinion of young Mrs. Barker , says some great believer in the powers of Mr. Fairfax , 'but don't be too severe . 
'I never am severe , replies the censorious young gentleman . 
'Well , never mind that now . 
'Did you observe her manner ? Bless my heart and soul , Mrs. Thompson , did you observe her manner ? that's all I ask . 
'I thought I had done so , rejoins the poor lady , much perplexed 'I did not observe it very closely perhaps . 
'Oh , not very closely , rejoins the censorious young gentleman , triumphantly . 
'Very good then I did . 
Let us talk no more about her . 
has observed something exceedingly odd in Mrs. Barker's manner . 
When he had quite exhausted all beholders , Mr. Griggins received the welcomes and congratulations of the circle , and went through the needful introductions with much ease and many puns . 
At this novel jest we all roared once more . 
'You should consider yourself highly honoured , sir , said we . 
'Sir , replied Mr. Griggins , 'you do me proud . 
Here everybody laughed again and the stout gentleman by the fire whispered in our ear that Griggins was making a dead set at us . 
At this terrible threat the young gentleman became calm , and the young lady , overcome by the revulsion of feeling , instantaneously fainted . 
, he had never beheld him in such excellent cue . 
As we have no mean relish for theatrical entertainments ourself , we are disinterestedly anxious that this should be perfectly understood . 
The theatrical young gentleman has early and important information on all theatrical topics . 
'Well , says he , abruptly , when you meet him in the street , 'here's a pretty to do . 
Flimkins has thrown up his part in the melodrama at the Surrey . 
'And what's to be done ? you inquire with as much gravity as you can counterfeit . 
'Ah , that's the point , replies the theatrical young gentleman , looking very serious 'Boozle declines it positively declines it . 
It's a fine part , too excellent business , I'm told . 
With this piece of news , and laying his finger on his lips as a caution for you not to excite the town with it , the theatrical young gentleman hurries away . 
The theatrical young gentleman , from often frequenting the different theatrical establishments , has pet and familiar names for them all . 
Thus Covent Garden is the garden , Drury Lane the lane , the Victoria the vic , and the Olympic the pic . 
In the same manner he prefixes Christian names when he mentions actors , as Charley Young , Jemmy Buckstone , Fred . 
When he is at a loss for a Christian name , the word 'old' applied indiscriminately answers quite as well as old Charley Matthews at Vestris's , old Harley , and old Braham . 
Whenever an alteration of this kind is made in the playbills , he will remind you that he let you into the secret six months ago . 
The theatrical young gentleman has a great reverence for all that is connected with the stage department of the different theatres . 
that there are three hundred and seventy five people on the stage at one time in the last scene , but is highly indignant with you , unless you believe it also . 
one of the most interesting feats in the whole range of scenic illusion . 
The theatrical young gentleman is a great advocate for violence of emotion and redundancy of action . 
Upon these , and other points of a similar kind , the theatrical young gentleman is a great critic indeed . 
These were poetical young gentlemen . 
We know a poetical young gentleman a very poetical young gentleman . 
The poetical young gentleman is apt to acquire peculiar notions of things too , which plain ordinary people , unblessed with a poetical obliquity of vision , would suppose to be rather distorted . 
This was a stern mystic flight of the poetical young gentleman . 
The poetical young gentleman is fond of quoting passages from his favourite authors , who are all of the gloomy and desponding school . 
When the poetical young gentleman makes use of adjectives , they are all superlatives . 
Everything is of the grandest , greatest , noblest , mightiest , loftiest or the lowest , meanest , obscurest , vilest , and most pitiful . 
He knows no medium for enthusiasm is the soul of poetry and who so enthusiastic as a poetical young gentleman ? 'Mr . 
Milkwash , says a young lady as she unlocks her album to receive the young gentleman's original impromptu contribution , 'how very silent you are ! I think you must be in love . 
Love ! The withering , blighting influence of hope misplaced and affection slighted . 
And so she did , but not at our instance , for other reasons appeared , and it might have been better if she had done so at first . 
Ah ! And he sighs as if mourning over the fallen fortunes of his noble house . 
'She has got over it now , and I firmly hope and trust is happy . 
With this benevolent aspiration he nods his head in a mysterious manner , and whistling the first part of some popular air , thinks perhaps it will be better to change the subject . 
'Never , he replies , bending over the object of admiration , 'never but in your eyes . 
'Oh , Mr. Caveton , cries the young lady , blushing of course . 
'Indeed I speak the truth , replies the throwing off young gentleman , 'I never saw any approach to them . 
I used to think my cousin's blue eyes lovely , but they grow dim and colourless beside yours . 
'Oh ! a beautiful cousin , Mr. Caveton ! replies the young lady , with that perfect artlessness which is the distinguishing characteristic of all young ladies 'an affair , of course . 
'No indeed , indeed you wrong me , rejoins the throwing off young gentleman with great energy . 
The heart , the heart , Miss Lowfield . 
with his voice , assure a circle of wondering listeners that so acute was his ear that he was wholly unable to sing out of tune , let him try as he would . 
Ladies , ladies , the throwing off young gentlemen are often swindlers , and always fools . 
So pray you avoid them . 
THE YOUNG LADIES' YOUNG GENTLEMAN This young gentleman has several titles . 
With some young ladies he is 'a perfect angel , and with others 'quite a love . 
He is likewise a charming creature , a duck , and a dear . 
The young ladies' young gentleman has usually a fresh colour and very white teeth , which latter articles , of course , he displays on every possible opportunity . 
If his head and face be large , his nose prominent , and his figure square , he is an uncommonly fine young man , and worshipped accordingly . 
Should his whiskers meet beneath his chin , so much the better , though this is not absolutely insisted on but he must wear an under waistcoat , and smile constantly . 
There was a great party got up by some party loving friends of ours last summer , to go and dine in Epping Forest . 
This determined us , and we went . 
'I cannot imagine , said the mamma , 'what has become of Mr. Balim always so punctual , always so pleasant and agreeable . 
I am sure I can NOT think . 
'By Heaven , then , I did , replied the young gentleman , 'and with a lovely heiress a superb creature , with twenty thousand pounds . 
'You seem rather struck , observed another young lady . 
''Gad she was a sweet creature , returned the young gentleman , arranging his hair . 
'Of course SHE was struck too ? inquired the first young lady . 
'How can you ask , love ? interposed the second 'could she fail to be ? 'Well , honestly I think she was , observed the young gentleman . 
The lively conversation to which this pleasantry gave rise , lasted for the remainder of the ride , and would have eked out a much longer one . 
We dined rather more comfortably than people usually do under such circumstances , nothing having been left behind but the cork screw and the bread . 
His conversation , too , was exceedingly brilliant . 
What charming fellows these young ladies' young gentlemen are ! Ducks , dears , loves , angels , are all terms inadequate to express their merit . 
They are such amazingly , uncommonly , wonderfully , nice men . 
Here we are at a loss . 
'The grand affair of your life will be , to gain and preserve the esteem of your husband . 
These offers may be forwarded to the Publishers , Messrs . 
Chapman and Hall , London to whom all pieces of plate and other testimonials of approbation from the young ladies generally , are respectfully requested to be addressed . 
