'' So Bessie Bell just remembered and wondered . 
But great grown wise folks said No , there is no window in all the world like that . 
Rut great grown people said No , no , Bessie Bell , there are no apple trees in all the world like that . 
'' And one time Bessie Bell was at a pretty house and somebody sat her on a little low chair and said Keep still , Bessie Bell . 
Then one , great grown person said She seems a very quiet child . 
'' And the other said She is a very quiet child sometimes . 
The nurse that always had played so nicely with the tiny little girl was lying with her cheek in her hand over yonder . 
The Grandmother who had always talked so much to the tiny little girl was not talking any more . 
The tiny little girl was so sick that she only just could breathe quickly , just so and just so . 
If Bessie Bell could remember that , it was only that she remembered the big white cat like a big soft dream . 
And she might have remembered how , now and then , the big cat put out a paw and touched the little girl's cheek , like a soft white dream touch . 
'' And they said Let us take this little girl with us . 
'' They put a big soft white blanket around the little girl and walked out of the big house with her , someone carrying her in strong arms . 
And the tiny little girl never saw the big house , or the big soft white cat any more . 
And now when it happened that she remembered something , great grown people said No , no , Bessie Bell , there is nothing in the world like that . 
'' So she just wondered and remembered , and almost forgot what it was that she did remember . 
Sister Mary Felice had all the little tiny girls playing in the sand that was the place that was meant for the little girls to play in . 
All the little girls had on blue checked aprons . 
All the aprons had straps and buttons behind . 
For just one hour every day all the little tiny girls played in the sand , and while they played Sister Mary Felice sat on a willow wrought bench and watched them play . 
Then when that hour was exactly passed Sister Angela always came with a basket of netted canes , an Indian basket , on her arm . 
In the Indian basket were little cakes such nice little cakes always they had caraway seeds in them . 
Will you try one ? '' Sister Mary Felice said I thank you , Sister Angela . 
'' Then Sister Mary Felice took one to try . 
Then always Sister Angela , with the Indian basket on her arm , took all the little girls to the long back gallery that was latticed in . 
On a low shelf close against the lattice sat a row of white basins . 
Then all the little tiny girls washed their little tiny hands in the white basins . 
Then if two little girls took hold of the pink checked towel at once they both laughed and sang Don't wipe together , Or we'll fight Before night . 
Then the little girls all ran to sit down in a row on the lowest step of the back gallery , with their little feet on the gravel below . 
Always Sister Angela sat a little way off from the row of the little girls . 
She always sat on a bench under the great magnoliatree and watched the tiny girls as they ate their tiny cakes . 
It was the law ! The law that the little girls had made for themselves , and nobody but themselves knew about that law for the good of the birds . 
Then the little brown birds fluttered up from the gravel . 
Then all the little girls looked up . 
There stood two pretty grown up people . 
And they had no little white crosses like the small white cross that Sister Angela wore on the breast of her soft black dress . 
'' And Sister Angela said Yes , we have always kept the little white night gown . 
'' And one of the pretty grown up people said Yes , that was right . 
Always to keep the little white night gown . 
'' And the other grown up person said And how comes that to be all that you know ? '' Sister Angela said Because of the fever . 
'' And the pretty one said The dreadful fever ! '' Sister Angela said Yes . 
It often leaves none in a house , and even sometimes none in a whole neighborhood to tell the story . 
The little brown birds seemed to know , too , that they could come back to the gravel to look for crumbs again . 
Then , as the little girls were again eating their cakes , one little girl said Sister Angela , were they Sisters ? '' Sister Angela said No , they are not Sisters . 
'' Then another little girl asked Sister Angela , what were they , then ? '' Sister Angela said They are only just ladies . 
'' Then always after that Bessie Bell and the other little girls were glad when Only Just Ladies came to see them . 
Then Bessie Bell cried and cried . 
Then the little girl said She isn't hurt at all . 
'' Sister Mary Felice said But you threw her down . 
You must tell her you are sorry . 
'' Then the little girl said But I didn't mean to throw her down . 
'' But , '' Sister Mary Felice said , you did trip her up , and you must beg her pardon . 
Then Bessie Bell grew so sorry again , she hardly knew why , or for what , that she began to cry again . 
So then both Sisters said again Yes , you should beg pardon . 
'' But the little girl still cried , and said , But I didn't mean to trip her . 
She did not get up and play in the sand while Sister Mary Felice looked one hour at the little girls playing in the sand . 
Often Only Just Ladies came and talked over her little white crib with Sister Helen Vincula . 
Bessie Bell's little fingers were no longer pink and round now they lay just white , so white and small , on the white spread . 
And Bessie Bell did not mind how quiet she was told to be , for she was too tired to want to make any noise at all . 
'' Bessie Bell thought that that was a very pretty tale that the Lady was telling , but she did not know or understand that that tale was about her . 
Then the Only Just Lady said , Sister Helen Vincula , it will do you good , too , as well as this little girl to stay in the high mountains . 
It was a very strange new world to Bessie Bell , that new world up on the High Mountain . 
She did not think the grand views off the edge of the high mountain so strange . 
'' It was the people and all the people of that new world that seemed so strange to Bessie Bell . 
There were children , and children in all the summer cabins on that high mountain . 
And those children did not walk in rows . 
And those children did not do things by one hours . 
And those children did not wash their hands in little white basins sitting in rows on long back gallery benches . 
It was so very strange to Bessie Bell that these children wore all sorts of clothes all sorts ! Not just blue dresses , and blue checked aprons . 
When she would give one just a little pinch to see if that one was a real sure enough little girl , why that little girl would say , Don't . 
There were no Sisters on that high mountain . 
Sister Helen Vincula was the only Sister there . 
That seemed very strange to Bessie Bell . 
One day the strangest thing of all so far happened . 
One little girl called another little girl with whom she was playing , Sister . 
'' Bessie Bell laughed at that . 
Oh , she is not a Sister ! '' said Bessie Bell . 
Yes , she is she is my sister ! '' said the little girl . 
And all the other little girls who were playing joined in and said Bessie Bell doesn't know what she is talking about . 
Of course you are sisters . 
Everybody knows you are sisters ! '' Bessie Bell was distressed to be told that she did not know what she was talking about and she knew so much about Sisters . 
So she began to cry , very softly . 
Then she stopped crying long enough to say But I never saw Sisters like that before ! '' Then she took up her crying again right where she left off . 
'' Then came to Bessie Bell that knowledge that we are often times slow in getting she knew all of a sudden that she did not know everything . 
She did not know all , even about Sisters . 
Why , the whole world , surely the up on the mountain world , seemed full of Only Just Ladies . 
There were yet stranger things for Bessie Bell to learn . 
'' Or perhaps it was another child who said Mama won't let me wade in the branch . 
And Bessie Bell wondered a great deal what that could mean Mama ? My Mama ? There were strange new things in this world . 
Bessie Bell almost forgot to remember now , because every day was so full of such strange new things to know . 
Mama ? My Mama ? Bessie Bell did a great deal of thinking about that . 
One day the little children were playing at building rock chimneys . 
There was not much sand there for little children to play in , so that the children often built rock chimneys , and rock tables , and rock fences . 
See , Mama ! Look , Mama ! '' cried the little girl . 
Why does she say Mama ? '' asked Bessie Bell , because she just wondered , and wondered and she did not know . 
Because it is her Mama , '' said a child who had just brought two more rocks to put on the chimney . 
Oh , '' said Bessie Bell . 
That lady who was the little girl's Mama looked much as all the ladies looked . 
Are all Ladies Mamas ? '' asked Bessie Bell . 
She hoped the child who had brought the two rocks would not laugh , for Bessie Bell knew she would cry if she did . 
The little girl did not laugh at all . 
She was trying so carefully to put the last rock on top of the stone chimney , she said No , Bessie Bell some are Mamas , and some are only just Ladies . 
There it was again Only Just Ladies . 
Bessie Bell wondered how to tell which were Mamas , and which were Ladies just Ladies . 
Very often after that day she watched those who passed the cabin where she and Sister Helen Vincula lived , and wondered which were Mamas And which were Ladies . 
There was no rule of old or young by which Bessie Bell could tell . 
Nor was it as one could tell Sisters from Just Ladies by a way of dress . 
But for Ladies and Mamas there were none of these differences . 
But Bessie Bell looked and looked and wondered , but her eyes brought to her no way of knowing . 
Bessie Bell said Thank you , ma'am . 
Or are you a Mama ? '' asked Bessie Bell . 
Ah , said the lady I am a Mama , too , but all my little girls have grown up and left me . 
'' Bessie Bell wondered how they could have done that , those little girls . 
But she saw , and was so glad to see , that this lady was very wise , and that she understood all the things that little girls wonder about . 
But though there was a difference , a very great difference , between Mamas and Ladies it was very hard to tell unless you asked . 
One day a large fat lady took Bessie Bell on her lap . 
That was very strange to Bessie Bell to sit on top of anybody . 
And the lady made a rabbit , and a pony , and a preacher , all out of a handkerchief and her nice fat fingers . 
And then she made with the same handkerchief and fingers a Mama holding a Baby . 
Then Bessie Bell looked up at her with her wondering eyes and asked Are you a Lady '' Bless my soul ! '' cried the lady . 
Or are you a Mama ? '' asked Bessie Bell , when it seemed that the lady was about to stop laughing . 
So that is it ? '' asked the lady , and she seemed about to begin laughing again . 
Yes , I am a Mama , and I have three little girls about as funny as you are . 
'' Another time a lady passed by the cabin where Bessie Bell stood leaning against the little fluted white post of the gallery , and said Good morning , Bessie Bell . 
'' That made things so simple , thought Bessie Bell . 
This lady was a Mama . 
And she was Alice's Mama . 
Bessie Bell wished that all would tell in that nice way at once whether they were Mamas or Just Ladies . 
The next lady who passed by the cabin also stopped to talk to Bessie Bell . 
And Bessie Bell asked Are you a Mama or Only Just A Lady ? '' I am only just a lady , '' the lady said , patting Bessie Bell's little tiny hand . 
And it was easy to see that , in Bessie Bell's mind , though Only Just Ladies were kind and sweet , Mamas were far greater and more important beings . 
Her blue eyes were wide open and both of her pink little hands were above her head on the pillow . 
She was thinking , and thinking , and she forgot that she was thinking her thinking aloud , and she said Alice has a mama . 
Where is Bessie Bell's mama ? Never mind Bessie Bell will find a mama . 
'' Then Sister Helen Vincula , who was wide awake , too , said Ah me , ah me . 
'' Bessie Bell said Sister Helen Vincula , did you call me ? '' Sister Helen Vincula said No , child go to sleep . 
'' The next day was the day for Sister Helen Vincula and Bessie Bell to leave the high , cool mountain . 
They were to leave the little cabin where the lady had told them to live until they had gotten well again . 
So when their leaving day came Sister Helen Vincula put a clean stiff starched blue checked apron on Bessie Bell , and they walked together to the Mall where the band was playing . 
Bessie Bell was always so glad when Sister Helen Vincula took her to the Mall in the afternoon when the band played . 
All the little children went every afternoon in their prettiest dresses to the Mall where the band played . 
Because in the afternoon the band played just the sort of music that little girls liked to hear . 
Then Sister Helen Vincula said Bessie Bell , I am going across the long bridge to see some ladies and to tell them Good bye , because we are going away tomorrow . 
And Sister Helen Vincula said Now , will you stay right here on this stone bench till I come back for you ? '' Bessie Bell said , Yes , Sister Helen Vincula . 
'' So Sister Helen Vincula went away across the long bridge to see the ladies and to tell them Good bye . 
Bessie Bell did not know much about going away , and she did not understand about it at all , so she did not care at all about it . 
There were many other ladies on the Mall , and many ladies passed in their walk by the stone bench where Bessie Bell and the lady sat . 
Everybody loved to come to the Mall in the afternoon when the band played . 
Everybody loved to hear the gay music . 
Everybody loved to see the children in their prettiest clothes , and to see all the nurses rolling the babies in the carriages with the pretty parasols . 
And the lady said , as she passed by and looked Striking likeness . 
So when they had passed by , Bessie Bell turned and looked to the other end of the bench where the lady sat . 
Bessie Bell was so surprised at the first look that she hardly knew what to think . 
The lady did not look like Sister Helen Vincula , oh , not at all but the veil that she wore was soft and black like that that Sister Helen Vincula wore . 
The dress that the lady wore was black also , but it looked as if it were stiff and very crisp , and not soft like the dress that Sister Helen Vincula wore . 
Bessie Bell did not mean to be rude , but she reached out one tiny hand and took hold of the lady's dress , just a tiny pinch of it . 
Yes , it was very crisp . 
Then the lady turned and looked at Bessie Bell . 
Then Bessie Bell was still more surprised , for there was something white under her veil . 
Not white all round the face like that Sister Helen Vincula wore , but soft crinkly white just over the lady's soft yellow hair . 
Also on the breast of her black dress was a cross , but not white like the cross that Sister Helen Vincula wore . 
She did not have to feel it as she had felt the dress . 
Bessie Bell looked and thought . 
She thought this lady looked like a Sister and yet there was a difference . 
She looked also like Just A Lady , and she also looked grand and important enough for a Mama . 
Bessie Bell looked and thought , but she could not tell just exactly what this lady was . 
It was best that she should ask , and then she would surely know . 
So she asked Are vou a Lady , ma'am ? '' I hope so , little girl , '' the lady said . 
I thought , maybe , you were a Sister , '' said Bessie Bell . 
No , '' said the lady . 
Like Sister Mary Felice , and Sister Angela , and Sister Helen Vincula , '' said Bessie Bell . 
No , '' said the lady . 
Are you a Mama , then ? '' asked Bessie Bell . 
The lady looked as if she were going to cry . 
But Bessie Bell could see nothing to cry about . 
'' Little girl , '' said the lady , what do you mean ? '' And she still looked as if she might cry . 
Yes , '' said Bessie Bell , for she had begun to think very hard , Alice has a mama . 
Whereis your mama ? '' asked the lady , taking fast hold of the little hand that patted her hand . 
Everybody has a mama never mind '' But where is your mama ? '' asked the lady again . 
Bessie Bell had begun to wonder and so had forgotten to answer . 
Child , where is your mama ? '' said the lady again , still holding fast to Bessie Bell's hand . 
But I don't know , '' said Bessie Bell . 
She felt so happy now , for she knew she had found the Wisest Woman in the world , for this lady knew the things that little girls only could remember . 
But Bessie Bell did not look at anybody who passed . 
And the lady did not look at anybody who passed . 
And the band kept on playing gay music . 
It was not very long before Sister Helen Vincula came back from seeing the ladies across the long bridge , and from telling them Good bye . 
Bessie Bell did not listen very much to what they said . 
She did not lean up against the lady now , but she sat close . 
Sister Helen Vincula did not seem to mind that . 
She did not swing her foot to and fro now , but she still felt very contented and happy to have met the very Wisest Woman . 
I felt all safe about the baby , for I left her with my mother and the faithful nurse who had been my nurse , too . 
Then at last I did get there I slipped up secretly by water . 
I could find no one who could tell me anything . 
I could find no one who knew anything . 
The house was wide open . 
There was no sign of life , but that the cat came and rubbed up against me , and walked round and round me . 
Sister Helen Vincula wiped her eyes . 
The lady kept looking away off , but still held Bessie Bell's hand in hers . 
Then Sister Helen Vincula said We are going away to morrow . 
'' But the lady held fast to Bessie Bell's hand and said Not this little girl . 
'' But Sister Helen Vincula said Oh , madam , you do not know . 
No matter what we hope , we do not know '' But the lady held still faster to Bessie Bell's hand . 
Oh , '' said Sister Helen Vincula , I have a thought ! Come to our cabin with me . 
And Bessie Bell walked between Sister Helen Vincula and the lady . 
And they each held one of her little pink hands . 
For the old trunk was almost entirely packed for the going away to morrow . 
Then Sister Helen Vincula took out , from almost the bottom of the trunk , the little white night gown that had Bessie Bell'' written on it with linen thread . 
And Sister Helen Vincula laid the little white night gown across the lady's lap . 
Then the lady read the name written with the linen thread . 
The lady said I worked this name with my own hands . 
She did not know or care what it was all about she scarcely wondered . 
Sister Helen Vincula , '' said the lady , I know past all doubting that I worked this name . 
Much more past all doubting do you not know You must know '' Ah , '' said Sister Helen Vincula , I hope with you . 
'' She reached for the little night gown , and she smoothed it in her fingers . 
She had her arms about Bessie Bell's shoulders and was looking into her face . 
Now nearly two years she has been with us , '' said Sister Helen Vincula . 
She was just old enough to be put to the table in a high chair , '' said the lady . 
For she did not know that the lady was talking of something green , and blue , and soft , and brown . 
But the lady would not let Bessie Bell get far from her , and Bessie did not care to go far from her . 
She stood with her little pink hands folded , and looked up at the lady who held to her so closely . 
Sister Helen Vincula said It was Sister Theckla who spent that summer with the sick , and it was Sister Theckla who brought the child to us . 
Can you not go home with us ? Or I could write to you at once '' No , '' said the lady . 
The child shall not leave me And we will talk to Sister Theckla , and she will tell us all that she knows , and then God willing we shall know all . 
'' The lady said Yes , we will all go together . 
We will go at once . 
, past all doubting , that Bessie Bell had really found what she most wished for . 
