A child , more than all other gifts That earth can offer to declining man , Brings hope with it , and forward looking thoughts . 
No , he answered , I've never been used to nothing but common victual , and I can't eat that . 
Experience had bred no fancies in him that could raise the phantasm of appetite . 
And Raveloe was a village where many of the old echoes lingered , undrowned by new voices . 
All this Jem swore he had seen , more by token that it was the very day he had been mole catching on Squire Cass's land , down by the old saw pit . 
He might cure more folks if he would but he was worth speaking fair , if it was only to keep him from doing you a mischief . 
Their sense of his usefulness would have counteracted any repugnance or suspicion which was not confirmed by a deficiency in the quality or the tale of the cloth he wove for them . 
And the years had rolled on without producing any change in the impressions of the neighbours concerning Marner , except the change from novelty to habit . 
Such colloquies have occupied many a pair of pale faced weavers , whose unnurtured souls have been like young winged things , fluttering forsaken in the twilight . 
It had seemed to the unsuspecting Silas that the friendship had suffered no chill even from his formation of another attachment of a closer kind . 
At this time the senior deacon was taken dangerously ill , and , being a childless widower , he was tended night and day by some of the younger brethren or sisters . 
Silas frequently took his turn in the night watching with William , the one relieving the other at two in the morning . 
The candle was burning low , and he had to lift it to see the patient's face distinctly . 
Examination convinced him that the deacon was dead had been dead some time , for the limbs were rigid . 
Silas asked himself if he had been asleep , and looked at the clock it was already four in the morning . 
But at six o'clock , as he was thinking of going to seek his friend , William came , and with him the minister . 
They came to summon him to Lantern Yard , to meet the church members there and to his inquiry concerning the cause of the summons the only reply was , You will hear . 
Nothing further was said until Silas was seated in the vestry , in front of the minister , with the eyes of those who to him represented God's people fixed solemnly upon him . 
He was then exhorted not to hide his sin , but to confess and repent . 
Search me and my dwelling you will find nothing but three pound five of my own savings , which William Dane knows I have had these six months . 
At this William groaned , but the minister said , The proof is heavy against you , brother Marner . 
I must have slept , said Silas . 
But , I say again , search me and my dwelling , for I have been nowhere else . 
But at last he spoke feebly , looking at William . 
I remember now the knife wasn't in my pocket . 
William said , I know nothing of what you mean . 
On their return to the vestry there was further deliberation . 
But the members were bound to take other measures for finding out the truth , and they resolved on praying and drawing lots . 
This resolution can be a ground of surprise only to those who are unacquainted with that obscure religious life which has gone on in the alleys of our towns . 
The lots declared that Silas Marner was guilty . 
I don't remember putting it in my pocket again . 
You stole the money , and you have woven a plot to lay the sin at my door . 
But you may prosper , for all that there is no just God that governs the earth righteously , but a God of lies , that bears witness against the innocent . 
There was a general shudder at this blasphemy . 
William said meekly , I leave our brethren to judge whether this is the voice of Satan or not . 
I can do nothing but pray for you , Silas . 
Poor Marner went out with that despair in his soul that shaken trust in God and man , which is little short of madness to a loving nature . 
In the bitterness of his wounded spirit , he said to himself , She will cast me off too . 
And he reflected that , if she did not believe the testimony against him , her whole faith must be upset as his was . 
Marner went home , and for a whole day sat alone , stunned by despair , without any impulse to go to Sarah and attempt to win her belief in his innocence . 
Silas received the message mutely , and then turned away from the messengers to work at his loom again . 
There were no lips in Raveloe from which a word could fall that would stir Silas Marner's benumbed faith to a sense of pain . 
The little light he possessed spread its beams so narrowly , that frustrated belief was a curtain broad enough to create for him the blackness of night . 
He seemed to weave , like the spider , from pure impulse , without reflection . 
Every man's work , pursued steadily , tends in this way to become an end in itself , and so to bridge over the loveless chasms of his life . 
Silas's hand satisfied itself with throwing the shuttle , and his eye with seeing the little squares in the cloth complete themselves under his effort . 
Thought was arrested by utter bewilderment , now its old narrow pathway was closed , and affection seemed to have died under the bruise that had fallen on its keenest nerves . 
But at last Mrs. Osgood's table linen was finished , and Silas was paid in gold . 
He had seemed to love it little in the years when every penny had its purpose for him for he loved the purpose then . 
About this time an incident happened which seemed to open a possibility of some fellowship with his neighbours . 
Such a sort of thing had not been known since the Wise Woman at Tarley died and she had charms as well as stuff everybody went to her when their children had fits . 
Silas Marner could very likely do as much , and more and now it was all clear how he should have come from unknown parts , and be so comical looking . 
How could they have spent the money in their own village without betraying themselves ? They would be obliged to run away a course as dark and dubious as a balloon journey . 
His life had reduced itself to the functions of weaving and hoarding , without any contemplation of an end towards which the functions tended . 
Yet even in this stage of withering a little incident happened , which showed that the sap of affection was not all gone . 
Silas picked up the pieces and carried them home with grief in his heart . 
The brown pot could never be of use to him any more , but he stuck the bits together and propped the ruin in its old place for a memorial . 
This is the history of Silas Marner , until the fifteenth year after he came to Raveloe . 
But at night came his revelry at night he closed his shutters , and made fast his doors , and drew forth his gold . 
He loved the guineas best , but he would not change the silver the crowns and half crowns that were his own earnings , begotten by his labour he loved them all . 
But about the Christmas of that fifteenth year , a second great change came over Marner's life , and his history became blent in a singular manner with the life of his neighbours . 
For the Raveloe feasts were like the rounds of beef and the barrels of ale they were on a large scale , and lasted a good while , especially in the winter time . 
There was something wrong , more than common that was quite clear for Mr. Godfrey didn't look half so fresh coloured and open as he used to do . 
But if Mr. Godfrey didn't turn over a new leaf , he might say Good bye to Miss Nancy Lammeter . 
The door opened , and a thick set , heavy looking young man entered , with the flushed face and the gratuitously elated bearing which mark the first stage of intoxication . 
It was Dunsey , and at the sight of him Godfrey's face parted with some of its gloom to take on the more active expression of hatred . 
The handsome brown spaniel that lay on the hearth retreated under the chair in the chimney corner . 
Well , Master Godfrey , what do you want with me ? said Dunsey , in a mocking tone . 
You're my elders and betters , you know I was obliged to come when you sent for me . 
Why , this is what I want and just shake yourself sober and listen , will you ? said Godfrey , savagely . 
He had himself been drinking more than was good for him , trying to turn his gloom into uncalculating anger . 
He said , just now , before he went out , he should send word to Cox to distrain , if Fowler didn't come and pay up his arrears this week . 
The Squire's short o' cash , and in no humour to stand any nonsense and you know what he threatened , if ever he found you making away with his money again . 
So , see and get the money , and pretty quickly , will you ? Oh ! said Dunsey , sneeringly , coming nearer to his brother and looking in his face . 
Godfrey bit his lips and clenched his fist . 
Don't come near me with that look , else I'll knock you down . 
Oh no , you won't , said Dunsey , turning away on his heel , however . 
Because I'm such a good natured brother , you know . 
I might get you turned out of house and home , and cut off with a shilling any day . 
But you see , I don't do it I'm so easy and good natured . 
You'll take any trouble for me . 
You'll get the hundred pounds for me I know you will . 
How can I get the money ? said Godfrey , quivering . 
I haven't a shilling to bless myself with . 
And it's a lie that you'd slip into my place you'd get yourself turned out too , that's all . 
For if you begin telling tales , I'll follow . 
Bob's my father's favourite you know that very well . 
He'd only think himself well rid of you . 
Never mind , said Dunsey , nodding his head sideways as he looked out of the window . 
But you'd like better for us both to stay at home together I know you would . 
So you'll manage to get that little sum o' money , and I'll bid you good bye , though I'm sorry to part . 
I tell you , he won't lend me any more , and I shan't ask him . 
Well , then , sell Wildfire . 
Yes , that's easy talking . 
I must have the money directly . 
Well , you've only got to ride him to the hunt to morrow . 
There'll be Bryce and Keating there , for sure . 
You'll get more bids than one . 
I daresay , and get back home at eight o'clock , splashed up to the chin . 
I'm going to Mrs. Osgood's birthday dance . 
Oho ! said Dunsey , turning his head on one side , and trying to speak in a small mincing treble . 
What for ? said Dunsey , still in an artificial tone , but taking a whip from the table and beating the butt end of it on his palm . 
You've a very good chance . 
Miss Nancy wouldn't mind being a second , if she didn't know it . 
And you've got a good natured brother , who'll keep your secret well , because you'll be so very obliging to him . 
I'll tell you what it is , said Godfrey , quivering , and pale again , my patience is pretty near at an end . 
If you'd a little more sharpness in you , you might know that you may urge a man a bit too far , and make one leap as easy as another . 
I don't know but what it is so now I may as well tell the Squire everything myself I should get you off my back , if I got nothing else . 
And , after all , he'll know some time . 
She's been threatening to come herself and tell him . 
So , don't flatter yourself that your secrecy's worth any price you choose to ask . 
You drain me of money till I have got nothing to pacify her with , and she'll do as she threatens some day . 
I'll tell my father everything myself , and you may go to the devil . 
Dunsey perceived that he had overshot his mark , and that there was a point at which even the hesitating Godfrey might be driven into decision . 
But he said , with an air of unconcern As you please but I'll have a draught of ale first . 
And ringing the bell , he threw himself across two chairs , and began to rap the window seat with the handle of his whip . 
Godfrey stood , still with his back to the fire , uneasily moving his fingers among the contents of his side pockets , and looking at the floor . 
The results of confession were not contingent , they were certain whereas betrayal was not certain . 
From the near vision of that certainty he fell back on suspense and vacillation with a sense of repose . 
The utmost concession to Dunstan about the horse began to seem easy , compared with the fulfilment of his own threat . 
But his pride would not let him recommence the conversation otherwise than by continuing the quarrel . 
Dunstan was waiting for this , and took his ale in shorter draughts than usual . 
And if you'd got a spark of pride in you , you'd be ashamed to see the stables emptied , and everybody sneering about it . 
But it's my belief you'd sell yourself , if it was only for the pleasure of making somebody feel he'd got a bad bargain . 
Aye , aye , said Dunstan , very placably , you do me justice , I see . 
You know I'm a jewel for 'ticing people into bargains . 
For which reason I advise you to let me sell Wildfire . 
I'd ride him to the hunt to morrow for you , with pleasure . 
I shouldn't look so handsome as you in the saddle , but it's the horse they'll bid for , and not the rider . 
Yes , I daresay trust my horse to you ! As you please , said Dunstan , rapping the window seat again with an air of great unconcern . 
It's you have got to pay Fowler's money it's none of my business . 
You received the money from him when you went to Bramcote , and you told the Squire it wasn't paid . 
I'd nothing to do with that you chose to be so obliging as to give it me , that was all . 
If you don't want to pay the money , let it alone it's all one to me . 
But I was willing to accommodate you by undertaking to sell the horse , seeing it's not convenient to you to go so far to morrow . 
Godfrey was silent for some moments . 
When he spoke again , it was in a half conciliatory tone . 
And you'll have less pleasure in pulling the house over my head , when your own skull's to be broken too . 
Aye , aye , said Dunstan , rising all right . 
I thought you'd come round . 
I'm the fellow to bring old Bryce up to the scratch . 
I'll get you a hundred and twenty for him , if I get you a penny . 
Not it , said Dunstan . 
I'm always lucky in my weather . 
It might rain if you wanted to go yourself . 
You never hold trumps , you know I always do . 
You've got the beauty , you see , and I've got the luck , so you must keep me by you for your crooked sixpence you'll ne ver get along without me . 
Confound you , hold your tongue ! said Godfrey , impetuously . 
And take care to keep sober to morrow , else you'll get pitched on your head coming home , and Wildfire might be the worse for it . 
Make your tender heart easy , said Dunstan , opening the door . 
You never knew me see double when I'd got a bargain to make it 'ud spoil the fun . 
Besides , whenever I fall , I'm warranted to fall on my legs . 
That , at least , was the condition of Godfrey Cass in this six and twentieth year of his life . 
It was an ugly story of low passion , delusion , and waking from delusion , which needs not to be dragged from the privacy of Godfrey's bitter memory . 
And if Godfrey could have felt himself simply a victim , the iron bit that destiny had put into his mouth would have chafed him less intolerably . 
If the curses he muttered half aloud when he was alone had had no other object than Dunstan's diabolical cunning , he might have shrunk less from the consequences of avowal . 
Godfrey's was an essentially domestic nature , bred up in a home where the hearth had no smiles , and where the daily habits were not chastised by the presence of household order . 
And yet the hope of this paradise had not been enough to save him from a course which shut him out of it for ever . 
He had made ties for himself which robbed him of all wholesome motive , and were a constant exasperation . 
Snuff , the brown spaniel , who had placed herself in front of him , and had been watching him for some time , now jumped up in impatience for the expected caress . 
But Godfrey thrust her away without looking at her , and left the room , followed humbly by the unresenting Snuff perhaps because she saw no other career open to her . 
The spot looked very dreary at this season , with the moist trodden clay about it , and the red , muddy water high up in the deserted quarry . 
Godfrey would be ready enough to accept the suggestion he would snatch eagerly at a plan that might save him from parting with Wildfire . 
But when Dunstan's meditation reached this point , the inclination to go on grew strong and prevailed . 
He didn't want to give Godfrey that pleasure he preferred that Master Godfrey should be vexed . 
Moreover , Dunstan enjoyed the self important consciousness of having a horse to sell , and the opportunity of driving a bargain , swaggering , and possibly taking somebody in . 
He might have all the satisfaction attendant on selling his brother's horse , and not the less have the further satisfaction of setting Godfrey to borrow Marner's money . 
So he rode on to cover . 
Bryce and Keating were there , as Dunstan was quite sure they would be he was such a lucky fellow . 
What ! has he swopped with you for that big boned hack of yours ? said Bryce , quite aware that he should get another lie in answer . 
Oh , there was a little account between us , said Dunsey , carelessly , and Wildfire made it even . 
But I mean to stick to Wildfire I shan't get a better at a fence in a hurry . 
The mare's got more blood , but she's a bit too weak in the hind quarters . 
You'll be lucky if you get a hundred . 
Keating rode up now , and the transaction became more complicated . 
It ended in the purchase of the horse by Bryce for a hundred and twenty , to be paid on the delivery of Wildfire , safe and sound , at the Batherley stables . 
Dunstan , however , took one fence too many , and got his horse pierced with a hedge stake . 
His own ill favoured person , which was quite unmarketable , escaped without injury but poor Wildfire , unconscious of his price , turned on his flank and painfully panted his last . 
It was now nearly four o'clock , and a mist was gathering the sooner he got into the road the better . 
He must soon , he thought , be getting near the opening at the Stone pits he should find it out by the break in the hedgerow . 
He found it out , however , by another circumstance which he had not expected namely , by certain gleams of light , which he presently guessed to proceed from Silas Marner's cottage . 
There might be several conveniences attending this course the weaver had possibly got a lantern , and Dunstan was tired of feeling his way . 
He was still nearly three quarters of a mile from home , and the lane was becoming unpleasantly slippery , for the mist was passing into rain . 
But he felt the ground before him cautiously with his whip handle , and at last arrived safely at the door . 
He knocked loudly , rather enjoying the idea that the old fellow would be frightened at the sudden noise . 
He heard no movement in reply all was silence in the cottage . 
Was the weaver gone to bed , then ? If so , why had he left a light ? That was a strange forgetfulness in a miser . 
Nothing at that moment could be much more inviting to Dunsey than the bright fire on the brick hearth he walked in and seated himself by it at once . 
There was something in front of the fire , too , that would have been inviting to a hungry man , if it had been in a different stage of cooking . 
It was a small bit of pork suspended from the kettle hanger by a string passed through a large door key , in a way known to primitive housekeepers unpossessed of jacks . 
But the pork had been hung at the farthest extremity of the hanger , apparently to prevent the roasting from proceeding too rapidly during the owner's absence . 
The old staring simpleton had hot meat for his supper , then ? thought Dunstan . 
People had always said he lived on mouldy bread , on purpose to check his appetite . 
That was an interesting idea to Dunstan , carrying consequences of entire novelty . 
A dull mind , once arriving at an inference that flatters a desire , is rarely able to retain the impression that the notion from which the inference started was purely problematic . 
And Dunstan's mind was as dull as the mind of a possible felon usually is . 
There were only three hiding places where he had ever heard of cottagers' hoards being found the thatch , the bed , and a hole in the floor . 
It was near the treddles of the loom . 
Dunstan felt round the hole , to be certain that it held no more then hastily replaced the bricks , and spread the sand over them . 
He would hasten out into the darkness , and then consider what he should do with the bags . 
But when he had gone a yard or two , he might take his time . 
So he stepped forward into the darkness . 
His legs were weary , but his mind was at ease , free from the presentiment of change . 
Silas was thinking with double complacency of his supper first , because it would be hot and savoury and secondly , because it would cost him nothing . 
He could not have locked his door without undoing his well knotted string and retarding his supper it was not worth his while to make that sacrifice . 
Then he moved his pork nearer to the fire , and sat down to the agreeable business of tending the meat and warming himself at the same time . 
Yet few men could be more harmless than poor Marner . 
In his truthful simple soul , not even the growing greed and worship of gold could beget any vice directly injurious to others . 
His loom , as he wrought in it without ceasing , had in its turn wrought on him , and confirmed more and more the monotonous craving for its monotonous response . 
His gold , as he hung over it and saw it grow , gathered his power of loving together into a hard isolation like its own . 
For joy is the best of wine , and Silas's guineas were a golden wine of that sort . 
He rose and placed his candle unsuspectingly on the floor near his loom , swept away the sand without noticing any change , and removed the bricks . 
At last he shook so violently that he let fall the candle , and lifted his hands to his head , trying to steady himself , that he might think . 
He searched in every corner , he turned his bed over , and shook it , and kneaded it he looked in his brick oven where he laid his sticks . 
When there was no other place to be searched , he kneeled down again and felt once more all round the hole . 
There was no untried refuge left for a moment's shelter from the terrible truth . 
Silas got up from his knees trembling , and looked round at the table didn't the gold lie there after all ? The table was bare . 
He could see every object in his cottage and his gold was not there . 
Again he put his trembling hands to his head , and gave a wild ringing scream , the cry of desolation . 
For a few moments after , he stood motionless but the cry had relieved him from the first maddening pressure of the truth . 
He turned , and tottered towards his loom , and got into the seat where he worked , instinctively seeking this as the strongest assurance of reality . 
The thought brought some new strength with it , and he started from his loom to the door . 
As he opened it the rain beat in upon him , for it was falling more and more heavily . 
And in the evening , too , he said to himself , everything was the same as when he had left it . 
The sand and bricks looked as if they had not been moved . 
His thoughts glanced at all the neighbours who had made any remarks , or asked any questions which he might now regard as a ground of suspicion . 
Jem Rodney was the man there was ease in the thought . 
The robber must be laid hold of . 
He ran swiftly , till want of breath compelled him to slacken his pace as he was entering the village at the turning close to the Rainbow . 
But the parlour was dark to night , the chief personages who ornamented its circle being all at Mrs. Osgood's birthday dance , as Godfrey Cass was . 
He gave a few puffs before he spat and replied , And they wouldn't be fur wrong , John . 
After this feeble delusive thaw , the silence set in as severely as before . 
Was it a red Durham ? said the farrier , taking up the thread of discourse after the lapse of a few minutes . 
The farrier looked at the landlord , and the landlord looked at the butcher , as the person who must take the responsibility of answering . 
Red it was , said the butcher , in his good humoured husky treble and a Durham it was . 
Well yes she might , said the butcher , slowly , considering that he was giving a decided affirmative . 
And as for the cow you've bought , bargain or no bargain , I've been at the drenching of her contradick me who will . 
The farrier looked fierce , and the mild butcher's conversational spirit was roused a little . 
I'm not for contradicking no man , he said I'm for peace and quietness . 
Some are for cutting long ribs I'm for cutting 'em short myself but I don't quarrel with 'em . 
All I say is , it's a lovely carkiss and anybody as was reasonable , it 'ud bring tears into their eyes to look at it . 
All I say is , it's a lovely carkiss . 
And what I say , I'll stick to but I'll quarrel wi' no man . 
Come , come , said the landlord let the cow alone . 
The truth lies atween you you're both right and both wrong , as I allays say . 
And as for the cow's being Mr. Lammeter's , I say nothing to that but this I say , as the Rainbow's the Rainbow . 
He smiled pityingly , in answer to the landlord's appeal , and said Aye , aye I know , I know but I let other folks talk . 
I've laid by now , and gev up to the young uns . 
Ask them as have been to school at Tarley they've learnt pernouncing that's come up since my day . 
If you're pointing at me , Mr. Macey , said the deputy clerk , with an air of anxious propriety , I'm nowise a man to speak out of my place . 
As the psalm says I know what's right , nor only so , But also practise what I know . 
But there's people set up their own ears for a standard , and expect the whole choir to follow 'em . 
There may be two opinions , I hope . 
There'd be two 'pinions about a cracked bell , if the bell could hear itself . 
The old gentleman's got a gift . 
Why , the Squire used to invite him to take a glass , only to hear him sing the Red Rovier didn't he , Mr. Macey ? It's a nat'ral gift . 
There's my little lad Aaron , he's got a gift he can sing a tune off straight , like a throstle . 
But as for you , Master Tookey , you'd better stick to your Amens your voice is well enough when you keep it up in your nose . 
It's your inside as isn't right made for music it's no better nor a hollow stalk . 
This kind of unflinching frankness was the most piquant form of joke to the company at the Rainbow , and Ben Winthrop's insult was felt by everybody to have capped Mr. Macey's epigram . 
I see what it is plain enough , said Mr. Tookey , unable to keep cool any longer . 
There's a consperacy to turn me out o' the choir , as I shouldn't share the Christmas money that's where it is . 
But I shall speak to Mr. Crackenthorp I'll not be put upon by no man . 
Nay , nay , Tookey , said Ben Winthrop . 
We'll pay you your share to keep out of it that's what we'll do . 
There's things folks 'ud pay to be rid on , besides varmin . 
Come , come , said the landlord , who felt that paying people for their absence was a principle dangerous to society a joke's a joke . 
We're all good friends here , I hope . 
We must give and take . 
You're both right and you're both wrong , as I say . 
I agree wi' Mr. Macey here , as there's two opinions and if mine was asked , I should say they're both right . 
Tookey's right and Winthrop's right , and they've only got to split the difference and make themselves even . 
The farrier was puffing his pipe rather fiercely , in some contempt at this trivial discussion . 
He had no ear for music himself , and never went to church , as being of the medical profession , and likely to be in requisition for delicate cows . 
But the butcher , having music in his soul , had listened with a divided desire for Tookey's defeat and for the preservation of the peace . 
Aye , aye , said Mr. Macey , in the height of complacency our family's been known for musicianers as far back as anybody can tell . 
Aye , you remember when first Mr. Lammeter's father come into these parts , don't you , Mr. Macey ? said the landlord . 
He came from a bit north'ard , so far as I could ever make out . 
I should know , for I helped the old rector , Mr. Drumlow as was , I helped him marry 'em . 
Here Mr. Macey paused he always gave his narrative in instalments , expecting to be questioned according to precedent . 
Aye , and a partic'lar thing happened , didn't it , Mr. Macey , so as you were likely to remember that marriage ? said the landlord , in a congratulatory tone . 
I should think there did a very partic'lar thing , said Mr. Macey , nodding sideways . 
But you knew what was going on well enough , didn't you , Mr. Macey ? You were live enough , eh ? said the butcher . 
And I was worreted as if I'd got three bells to pull at once , when we went into the vestry , and they begun to sign their names . 
But where's the use o' talking ? you can't think what goes on in a 'cute man's inside . 
But you held in for all that , didn't you , Mr. Macey ? said the landlord . 
Aye , I held in tight till I was by mysen wi' Mr. Drumlow , and then I out wi' everything , but respectful , as I allays did . 
But there was more to come and Mr. Snell , the landlord , duly put the leading question . 
For there was allays a talk as nobody could get rich on the Warrens though he holds it cheap , for it's what they call Charity Land . 
Aye , and there's few folks know so well as you how it come to be Charity Land , eh , Mr. Macey ? said the butcher . 
How should they ? said the old clerk , with some contempt . 
Why , my grandfather made the grooms' livery for that Mr. Cliff as came and built the big stables at the Warrens . 
But Cliff , he was ashamed o' being called a tailor , and he was sore vexed as his riding was laughed at , and nobody o' the gentlefolks hereabout could abide him . 
Aye , but there's more going on in the stables than what folks see by daylight , eh , Mr. Macey ? said the landlord . 
Cliff's Holiday has been the name of it ever sin' I were a boy that's to say , some said as it was the holiday Old Harry gev him from roasting , like . 
That's what my father told me , and he was a reasonable man , though there's folks nowadays know what happened afore they were born better nor they know their own business . 
What do you say to that , eh , Dowlas ? said the landlord , turning to the farrier , who was swelling with impatience for his cue . 
There's a nut for you to crack . 
Mr. Dowlas was the negative spirit in the company , and was proud of his position . 
Say ? I say what a man should say as doesn't shut his eyes to look at a finger post . 
That's what I say , and I've said it many a time but there's nobody 'ull ventur a ten pun' note on their ghos'es as they make so sure of . 
Why , Dowlas , that's easy betting , that is , said Ben Winthrop . 
You might as well bet a man as he wouldn't catch the rheumatise if he stood up to 's neck in the pool of a frosty night . 
It 'ud be fine fun for a man to win his bet as he'd catch the rheumatise . 
Folks as believe in Cliff's Holiday aren't agoing to ventur near it for a matter o' ten pound . 
Thank you ! I'm obliged to you , said the farrier , with a snort of scorn . 
If folks are fools , it's no business o' mine . 
I don't want to make out the truth about ghos'es I know it a'ready . 
But I'm not against a bet everything fair and open . 
Let any man bet me ten pound as I shall see Cliff's Holiday , and I'll go and stand by myself . 
I'd as lief do it as I'd fill this pipe . 
Ah , but who's to watch you , Dowlas , and see you do it ? That's no fair bet , said the butcher . 
No fair bet ? replied Mr. Dowlas , angrily . 
I should like to hear any man stand up and say I want to bet unfair . 
Come now , Master Lundy , I should like to hear you say it . 
Very like you would , said the butcher . 
But it's no business o' mine . 
You're none o' my bargains , and I aren't a going to try and 'bate your price . 
If anybody 'll bid for you at your own vallying , let him . 
I'm for peace and quietness , I am . 
Yes , that's what every yapping cur is , when you hold a stick up at him , said the farrier . 
But I'm afraid o' neither man nor ghost , and I'm ready to lay a fair bet . 
I aren't a turn tail cur . 
Aye , but there's this in it , Dowlas , said the landlord , speaking in a tone of much candour and tolerance . 
There's folks , i' my opinion , they can't see ghos'es , not if they stood as plain as a pike staff before 'em . 
And there's reason i' that . 
For there's my wife , now , can't smell , not if she'd the strongest o' cheese under her nose . 
I never see'd a ghost myself but then I says to myself , Very like I haven't got the smell for 'em . 
I mean , putting a ghost for a smell , or else contrairiways . 
And so , I'm for holding with both sides for , as I say , the truth lies between 'em . 
For the smell's what I go by . 
The landlord's analogical argument was not well received by the farrier a man intensely opposed to compromise . 
If ghos'es want me to believe in 'em , let 'em leave off skulking i' the dark and i' lone places let 'em come where there's company and candles . 
As if ghos'es 'ud want to be believed in by anybody so ignirant ! said Mr. Macey , in deep disgust at the farrier's crass incompetence to apprehend the conditions of ghostly phenomena . 
Mr. Macey , sitting a long way off the ghost , might be supposed to have felt an argumentative triumph , which would tend to neutralize his share of the general alarm . 
For a few moments there was a dead silence , Marner's want of breath and agitation not allowing him to speak . 
Master Marner , he said , in a conciliatory tone , what's lacking to you ? What's your business here ? Robbed ! said Silas , gaspingly . 
I've been robbed ! I want the constable and the Justice and Squire Cass and Mr. Crackenthorp . 
Lay hold on him , Jem Rodney , said the landlord , the idea of a ghost subsiding he's off his head , I doubt . 
Jem Rodney was the outermost man , and sat conveniently near Marner's standing place but he declined to give his services . 
Come and lay hold on him yourself , Mr. Snell , if you've a mind , said Jem , rather sullenly . 
He's been robbed , and murdered too , for what I know , he added , in a muttering tone . 
Jem Rodney ! said Silas , turning and fixing his strange eyes on the suspected man . 
Aye , Master Marner , what do you want wi' me ? said Jem , trembling a little , and seizing his drinking can as a defensive weapon . 
I won't set the constable on you . 
Give it me back , and I'll let you I'll let you have a guinea . 
Me stole your money ! said Jem , angrily . 
I'll pitch this can at your eye if you talk o' my stealing your money . 
You're as wet as a drownded rat . 
Sit down and dry yourself , and speak straight forrard . 
Ah , to be sure , man , said the farrier , who began to feel that he had not been quite on a par with himself and the occasion . 
Let's have no more staring and screaming , else we'll have you strapped for a madman . 
That was why I didn't speak at the first thinks I , the man's run mad . 
Aye , aye , make him sit down , said several voices at once , well pleased that the reality of ghosts remained still an open question . 
The weaver , too feeble to have any distinct purpose beyond that of getting help to recover his money , submitted unresistingly . 
He'd better not say again as it was me robbed him , cried Jem Rodney , hastily . 
What could I ha' done with his money ? I could as easy steal the parson's surplice , and wear it . 
Hold your tongue , Jem , and let's hear what he's got to say , said the landlord . 
Now then , Master Marner . 
Silas now told his story , under frequent questioning as the mysterious character of the robbery became evident . 
Our consciousness rarely registers the beginning of a growth within us any more than without us there have been many circulations of the sap before we detect the smallest sign of the bud . 
Why this preternatural felon should be obliged to wait till the door was left unlocked , was a question which did not present itself . 
It isn't Jem Rodney as has done this work , Master Marner , said the landlord . 
You mustn't be a casting your eye at poor Jem . 
Aye , aye , said Mr. Macey let's have no accusing o' the innicent . 
There must be folks to swear again' a man before he can be ta'en up . 
Let's have no accusing o' the innicent , Master Marner . 
Memory was not so utterly torpid in Silas that it could not be awakened by these words . 
I was wrong , he said yes , yes I ought to have thought . 
There's nothing to witness against you , Jem . 
Only you'd been into my house oftener than anybody else , and so you came into my head . 
Aye , aye , they're gone where it's hot enough to melt 'em , I doubt , said Mr. Macey . 
Tchuh ! said the farrier . 
Pooh ! why , they'd be none so heavy to carry . 
It's my opinion as , if I'd been you , or you'd been me for it comes to the same thing you wouldn't have thought you'd found everything as you left it . 
By this pregnant speech the farrier had re established his self complacency , and waited with confidence to hear himself named as one of the superlatively sensible men . 
Let us see how the night is , though , said the landlord , who also considered himself personally concerned in this proposition . 
Why , it rains heavy still , he said , returning from the door . 
Well , I'm not the man to be afraid o' the rain , said the farrier . 
For it'll look bad when Justice Malam hears as respectable men like us had a information laid before 'em and took no steps . 
Mr. Macey thought this was nonsense , since the law was not likely to be fonder of doctors than of other folks . 
By the landlord's intervention , however , the dispute was accommodated . 
CHAPTER VIII When Godfrey Cass returned from Mrs. Osgood's party at midnight , he was not much surprised to learn that Dunsey had not come home . 
As if , concluded Mr. Tookey as if there was nothing but what could be made out by justices and constables . 
Now , don't you be for overshooting the mark , Tookey , said Mr. Macey , nodding his head aside admonishingly . 
That's what you're allays at if I throw a stone and hit , you think there's summat better than hitting , and you try to throw a stone beyond . 
Here , surely , was a clue to be followed out . 
He had a look with his eye which fell unpleasantly on Mr. Snell's sensitive organism . 
To be sure , he didn't say anything particular no , except that about the tinder box but it isn't what a man says , it's the way he says it . 
Moreover , he had a swarthy foreignness of complexion which boded little honesty . 
Did he wear ear rings ? Mr. Crackenthorp wished to know , having some acquaintance with foreign customs . 
Well stay let me see , said Mr. Snell , like a docile clairvoyante , who would really not make a mistake if she could help it . 
But he called at every house , a'most , in the village there's somebody else , mayhap , saw 'em in his ears , though I can't take upon me rightly to say . 
Mr. Snell was correct in his surmise , that somebody else would remember the pedlar's ear rings . 
Anybody might know and only look at him that the weaver was a half crazy miser . 
It was to be hoped Mr. Godfrey would not go to Tarley and throw cold water on what Mr. Snell said there , and so prevent the justice from drawing up a warrant . 
He was suspected of intending this , when , after mid day , he was seen setting off on horseback in the direction of Tarley . 
But no sooner did the horse come within sight , than his heart sank again . 
Well , Mr. Godfrey , that's a lucky brother of yours , that Master Dunsey , isn't he ? What do you mean ? said Godfrey , hastily . 
Why , hasn't he been home yet ? said Bryce . 
What has happened ? Be quick . 
What has he done with my horse ? Ah , I thought it was yours , though he pretended you had parted with it to him . 
Has he thrown him down and broken his knees ? said Godfrey , flushed with exasperation . 
Worse than that , said Bryce . 
You see , I'd made a bargain with him to buy the horse for a hundred and twenty a swinging price , but I always liked the horse . 
And what does he do but go and stake him fly at a hedge with stakes in it , atop of a bank with a ditch before it . 
The horse had been dead a pretty good while when he was found . 
So he hasn't been home since , has he ? Home ? no , said Godfrey , and he'd better keep away . 
Confound me for a fool ! I might have known this would be the end of it . 
I knew Master Dunsey was up to his tricks sometimes . 
But where can he be gone ? He's never been seen at Batherley . 
He couldn't have been hurt , for he must have walked off . 
Hurt ? said Godfrey , bitterly . 
He'll never be hurt he's made to hurt other people . 
And so you did give him leave to sell the horse , eh ? said Bryce . 
I was going to see after him I thought some mischief had happened . 
You're coming on to Raveloe , aren't you ? Well , no , not now , said Bryce . 
I suppose Master Dunsey didn't like to show himself till the ill news had blown over a bit . 
He's perhaps gone to pay a visit at the Three Crowns , by Whitbridge I know he's fond of the house . 
Perhaps he is , said Godfrey , rather absently . 
Then rousing himself , he said , with an effort at carelessness , We shall hear of him soon enough , I'll be bound . 
Godfrey rode along slowly , representing to himself the scene of confession to his father from which he felt that there was now no longer any escape . 
But Godfrey could not bend himself to this . 
I don't pretend to be a good fellow , he said to himself but I'm not a scoundrel at least , I'll stop short somewhere . 
I'll bear the consequences of what I have done sooner than make believe I've done what I never would have done . 
I'd never have spent the money for my own pleasure I was tortured into it . 
The old Squire was accustomed to his son's frequent absence from home , and thought neither Dunstan's nor Wildfire's non appearance a matter calling for remark . 
This was the view of the case that Godfrey managed to keep before him pretty closely till midnight , and he went to sleep thinking that he had done with inward debating . 
Why , after all , should he cut off the hope of them by his own act ? He had seen the matter in a wrong light yesterday . 
, everything might blow over . 
Yes , sir , said Godfrey , I've had my breakfast , but I was waiting to speak to you . 
Ring the bell for my ale , will you ? You youngsters' business is your own pleasure , mostly . 
There's no hurry about it for anybody but yourselves . 
There's been a cursed piece of ill luck with Wildfire , he began happened the day before yesterday . 
What ! broke his knees ? said the Squire , after taking a draught of ale . 
I thought you knew how to ride better than that , sir . 
I never threw a horse down in my life . 
If I had , I might ha' whistled for another , for my father wasn't quite so ready to unstring as some other fathers I know of . 
But they must turn over a new leaf they must . 
What with mortgages and arrears , I'm as short o' cash as a roadside pauper . 
And that fool Kimble says the newspaper's talking about peace . 
Why , the country wouldn't have a leg to stand on . 
Prices 'ud run down like a jack , and I should never get my arrears , not if I sold all the fellows up . 
And there's that damned Fowler , I won't put up with him any longer I've told Winthrop to go to Cox this very day . 
The lying scoundrel told me he'd be sure to pay me a hundred last month . 
He takes advantage because he's on that outlying farm , and thinks I shall forget him . 
The Squire had delivered this speech in a coughing and interrupted manner , but with no pause long enough for Godfrey to make it a pretext for taking up the word again . 
But he must go on , now he had begun . 
It's worse than breaking the horse's knees he's been staked and killed , he said , as soon as his father was silent , and had begun to cut his meat . 
If it hadn't been for that , I should have paid you a hundred pounds this morning . 
The truth is , sir I'm very sorry I was quite to blame , said Godfrey . 
Fowler did pay that hundred pounds . 
He paid it to me , when I was over there one day last month . 
And Dunsey bothered me for the money , and I let him have it , because I hoped I should be able to pay it you before this . 
The Squire was purple with anger before his son had done speaking , and found utterance difficult . 
I'll turn the whole pack of you out of the house together , and marry again . 
I'd have you to remember , sir , my property's got no entail on it since my grandfather's time the Casses can do as they like with their land . 
Let Dunsey have the money ! Why should you let Dunsey have the money ? There's some lie at the bottom of it . 
There's no lie , sir , said Godfrey . 
I wouldn't have spent the money myself , but Dunsey bothered me , and I was a fool , and let him have it . 
But I meant to pay it , whether he did or not . 
I never meant to embezzle money , and I'm not the man to do it . 
You never knew me do a dishonest trick , sir . 
I said I would , and I'll do it . 
Dunsey isn't come back , sir . 
What ! did he break his own neck , then ? said the Squire , with some disgust at the idea that , in that case , he could not fulfil his threat . 
No , he wasn't hurt , I believe , for the horse was found dead , and Dunsey must have walked off . 
I daresay we shall see him again by and by . 
I don't know where he is . 
And what must you be letting him have my money for ? Answer me that , said the Squire , attacking Godfrey again , since Dunsey was not within reach . 
Well , sir , I don't know , said Godfrey , hesitatingly . 
You don't know ? I tell you what it is , sir . 
The sudden alarm pushed him on to take the next step a very slight impulse suffices for that on a downward road . 
Why , sir , he said , trying to speak with careless ease , it was a little affair between me and Dunsey it's no matter to anybody else . 
It's hardly worth while to pry into young men's fooleries it wouldn't have made any difference to you , sir , if I'd not had the bad luck to lose Wildfire . 
I should have paid you the money . 
Fooleries ! Pshaw ! it's time you'd done with fooleries . 
And I'd have you know , sir , you must ha' done with 'em , said the Squire , frowning and casting an angry glance at his son . 
Your goings on are not what I shall find money for any longer . 
I've been too good a father to you all that's what it is . 
But I shall pull up , sir . 
The Squire ate his bread and meat hastily , took a deep draught of ale , then turned his chair from the table , and began to speak again . 
It'll be all the worse for you , you know you'd need try and help me keep things together . 
I'd as lieve you married Lammeter's daughter as anybody . 
I suppose , if I'd said you nay , you'd ha' kept on with it but , for want o' contradiction , you've changed your mind . 
You're a shilly shally fellow you take after your poor mother . 
She never had a will of her own a woman has no call for one , if she's got a proper man for her husband . 
But your wife had need have one , for you hardly know your own mind enough to make both your legs walk one way . 
The lass hasn't said downright she won't have you , has she ? No , said Godfrey , feeling very hot and uncomfortable but I don't think she will . 
Well , then , let me make the offer for you , that's all , if you haven't the pluck to do it yourself . 
Lammeter isn't likely to be loath for his daughter to marry into my family , I should think . 
And as for the pretty lass , she wouldn't have her cousin and there's nobody else , as I see , could ha' stood in your way . 
I'd rather let it be , please sir , at present , said Godfrey , in alarm . 
I think she's a little offended with me just now , and I should like to speak for myself . 
A man must manage these things for himself . 
Well , speak , then , and manage it , and see if you can't turn over a new leaf . 
That's what a man must do when he thinks o' marrying . 
I don't see how I can think of it at present , sir . 
You wouldn't like to settle me on one of the farms , I suppose , and I don't think she'd come to live in this house with all my brothers . 
It's a different sort of life to what she's been used to . 
Not come to live in this house ? Don't tell me . 
You ask her , that's all , said the Squire , with a short , scornful laugh . 
I'd rather let the thing be , at present , sir , said Godfrey . 
I hope you won't try to hurry it on by saying anything . 
I shall do what I choose , said the Squire , and I shall let you know I'm master else you may turn out and find an estate to drop into somewhere else . 
Go out and tell Winthrop not to go to Cox's , but wait for me . 
And tell 'em to get my horse saddled . 
And stop look out and get that hack o' Dunsey's sold , and hand me the money , will you ? He'll keep no more hacks at my expense . 
And if you know where he's sneaking I daresay you do you may tell him to spare himself the journey o' coming back home . 
Let him turn ostler , and keep himself . 
He shan't hang on me any more . 
I don't know where he is , sir and if I did , it isn't my place to tell him to keep away , said Godfrey , moving towards the door . 
Confound it , sir , don't stay arguing , but go and order my horse , said the Squire , taking up a pipe . 
And in this point of trusting to some throw of fortune's dice , Godfrey can hardly be called specially old fashioned . 
Favourable Chance , I fancy , is the god of all men who follow their own devices instead of obeying a law they believe in . 
Let him neglect the responsibilities of his office , and he will inevitably anchor himself on the chance that the thing left undone may turn out not to be of the supposed importance . 
Let him betray his friend's confidence , and he will adore that same cunning complexity called Chance , which gives him the hope that his friend will never know . 
The evil principle deprecated in that religion is the orderly sequence by which the seed brings forth a crop after its kind . 
But Christmas puddings , brawn , and abundance of spirituous liquors , throwing the mental originality into the channel of nightmare , are great preservatives against a dangerous spontaneity of waking thought . 
But in reality it had been an eager life , filled with immediate purpose which fenced him in from the wide , cheerless unknown . 
It had been a clinging life and though the object round which its fibres had clung was a dead disrupted thing , it satisfied the need for clinging . 
But now the fence was broken down the support was snatched away . 
He filled up the blank with grief . 
And yet he was not utterly forsaken in his trouble . 
The repulsion Marner had always created in his neighbours was partly dissipated by the new light in which this misfortune had shown him . 
This change to a kindlier feeling was shown in various ways . 
We can send black puddings and pettitoes without giving them a flavour of our own egoism but language is a stream that is almost sure to smack of a mingled soil . 
There was a fair proportion of kindness in Raveloe but it was often of a beery and bungling sort , and took the shape least allied to the complimentary and hypocritical . 
You're a deal better off to ha' lost your money , nor to ha' kep it by foul means . 
And it's pretty much the same wi' you , as fur as I can see . 
Though as to the yarbs and stuff to cure the breathing , if you brought that sort o' knowledge from distant parts , you might ha' been a bit freer of it . 
During this discursive address Silas had continued motionless in his previous attitude , leaning his elbows on his knees , and pressing his hands against his head . 
Mr. Macey , not doubting that he had been listened to , paused , in the expectation of some appreciatory reply , but Marner remained silent . 
Come , Master Marner , have you got nothing to say to that ? said Mr. Macey at last , with a slight accent of impatience . 
Oh , said Marner , slowly , shaking his head between his hands , I thank you thank you kindly . 
Aye , aye , to be sure I thought you would , said Mr. Macey and my advice is have you got a Sunday suit ? No , said Marner . 
I doubted it was so , said Mr. Macey . 
Here Mr. Macey paused , perhaps expecting some sign of emotion in his hearer but not observing any , he went on . 
Another of Silas's comforters , besides Mr. Macey , came to him with a mind highly charged on the same topic . 
This was Mrs. Winthrop , the wheelwright's wife . 
Ah , it is as I thought , said Mrs. Winthrop , sadly . 
Formerly , his heart had been as a locked casket with its treasure inside but now the casket was empty , and the lock was broken . 
There's letters pricked on 'em , said Dolly . 
What are they , Aaron , my dear ? Aaron retreated completely behind his outwork . 
Oh , go , that's naughty , said his mother , mildly . 
It's I. H. S. , said Silas , at which proof of learning Aaron peeped round the chair again . 
Well , to be sure , you can read 'em off , said Dolly . 
Silas was as unable to interpret the letters as Dolly , but there was no possibility of misunderstanding the desire to give comfort that made itself heard in her quiet tones . 
He said , with more feeling than before Thank you thank you kindly . 
But he laid down the cakes and seated himself absently drearily unconscious of any distinct benefit towards which the cakes and the letters , or even Dolly's kindness , could tend for him . 
Ah , if there's good anywhere , we've need of it , repeated Dolly , who did not lightly forsake a serviceable phrase . 
She looked at Silas pityingly as she went on . 
But you didn't hear the church bells this morning , Master Marner ? I doubt you didn't know it was Sunday . 
Yes , I did I heard 'em , said Silas , to whom Sunday bells were a mere accident of the day , and not part of its sacredness . 
There had been no bells in Lantern Yard . 
Dear heart ! said Dolly , pausing before she spoke again . 
Nay , nay , he said , I know nothing o' church . 
I've never been to church . 
No ! said Dolly , in a low tone of wonderment . 
There was churches a many it was a big town . 
But I knew nothing of 'em I went to chapel . 
Dolly was much puzzled at this new word , but she was rather afraid of inquiring further , lest chapel might mean some haunt of wickedness . 
He remained silent , not feeling inclined to assent to the part of Dolly's speech which he fully understood her recommendation that he should go to church . 
Aaron shrank back a little , and rubbed his head against his mother's shoulder , but still thought the piece of cake worth the risk of putting his hand out for it . 
Oh , for shame , Aaron , said his mother , taking him on her lap , however why , you don't want cake again yet awhile . 
He's wonderful hearty , she went on , with a little sigh that he is , God knows . 
He's my youngest , and we spoil him sadly , for either me or the father must allays hev him in our sight that we must . 
She stroked Aaron's brown head , and thought it must do Master Marner good to see such a pictur of a child . 
But Marner , on the other side of the hearth , saw the neat featured rosy face as a mere dim round , with two dark spots in it . 
Come , Aaron , stan' up and sing the carril to Master Marner , come . 
Aaron replied by rubbing his forehead against his mother's shoulder . 
Oh , that's naughty , said Dolly , gently . 
Stan' up , when mother tells you , and let me hold the cake till you've done . 
Dolly listened with a devout look , glancing at Marner in some confidence that this strain would help to allure him to church . 
That's Christmas music , she said , when Aaron had ended , and had secured his piece of cake again . 
There's no other music equil to the Christmas music Hark the erol angils sing . 
The boy sings pretty , don't he , Master Marner ? Yes , said Silas , absently , very pretty . 
The Christmas carol , with its hammer like rhythm , had fallen on his ears as strange music , quite unlike a hymn , and could have none of the effect Dolly contemplated . 
But he wanted to show her that he was grateful , and the only mode that occurred to him was to offer Aaron a bit more cake . 
Oh , no , thank you , Master Marner , said Dolly , holding down Aaron's willing hands . 
We must be going home now . 
And you'll excuse me being that free with you , Master Marner , for I wish you well I do . 
Make your bow , Aaron . 
Her simple view of life and its comforts , by which she had tried to cheer him , was only like a report of unknown objects , which his imagination could not fashion . 
Nobody in this world but himself knew that he was the same Silas Marner who had once loved his fellow with tender love , and trusted in an unseen goodness . 
Even to himself that past experience had become dim . 
At Squire Cass's family party that day nobody mentioned Dunstan nobody was sorry for his absence , or feared it would be too long . 
But the party on Christmas day , being a strictly family party , was not the pre eminently brilliant celebration of the season at the Red House . 
It was the great dance on New Year's Eve that made the glory of Squire Cass's hospitality , as of his forefathers' , time out of mind . 
Godfrey Cass was looking forward to this New Year's Eve with a foolish reckless longing , that made him half deaf to his importunate companion , Anxiety . 
Dunsey will be coming home soon there will be a great blow up , and how will you bribe his spite to silence ? said Anxiety . 
? Well , but something may happen to make things easier . 
At any rate , there's one pleasure for me close at hand Nancy is coming . 
I can see Nancy's eyes , just as they will look at me , and feel her hand in mine already . 
But Anxiety went on , though in noisy Christmas company refusing to be utterly quieted even by much drinking . 
with a shyness not unsustained by inward criticism . 
She approached Miss Nancy with much primness , and said , with a slow , treble suavity Niece , I hope I see you well in health . 
Thank you , niece I keep my health for the present . 
, should be brought up in utter ignorance and vulgarity . 
After the first questions and greetings , she turned to Nancy , and surveyed her from head to foot then wheeled her round , to ascertain that the back view was equally faultless . 
What do you think o' these gowns , aunt Osgood ? said Priscilla , while Nancy helped her to unrobe . 
Very handsome indeed , niece , said Mrs. Osgood , with a slight increase of formality . 
She always thought niece Priscilla too rough . 
And I tell her , folks 'ull think it's my weakness makes me fancy as I shall look pretty in what she looks pretty in . 
For I am ugly there's no denying that I feature my father's family . 
The pretty uns do for fly catchers they keep the men off us . 
I've no opinion o' the men , Miss Gunn I don't know what you have . 
As I say , Mr. Have your own way is the best husband , and the only one I'd ever promise to obey . 
The Miss Gunns will like to go down . 
Sister , said Nancy , when they were alone , you've offended the Miss Gunns , I'm sure . 
What have I done , child ? said Priscilla , in some alarm . 
Why , you asked them if they minded about being ugly you're so very blunt . 
Law , did I ? Well , it popped out it's a mercy I said no more , for I'm a bad un to live with folks when they don't like the truth . 
But as for being ugly , look at me , child , in this silver coloured silk I told you how it 'ud be I look as yallow as a daffadil . 
Anybody 'ud say you wanted to make a mawkin of me . 
No , Priscy , don't say so . 
I begged and prayed of you not to let us have this silk if you'd like another better . 
I was willing to have your choice , you know I was , said Nancy , in anxious self vindication . 
Nonsense , child ! you know you'd set your heart on this and reason good , for you're the colour o' cream . 
It 'ud be fine doings for you to dress yourself to suit my skin . 
What I find fault with , is that notion o' yours as I must dress myself just like you . 
But you do as you like with me you always did , from when first you begun to walk . 
There you go again ! You'd come round to the same thing if one talked to you from Saturday night till Saturday morning . 
It'll be fine fun to see how you'll master your husband and never raise your voice above the singing o' the kettle all the while . 
I like to see the men mastered ! Don't talk so , Priscy , said Nancy , blushing . 
You know I don't mean ever to be married . 
Oh , you never mean a fiddlestick's end ! said Priscilla , as she arranged her discarded dress , and closed her bandbox . 
One old maid's enough out o' two sisters and I shall do credit to a single life , for God A'mighty meant me for it . 
Come , we can go down now . 
I'm as ready as a mawkin can be there's nothing awanting to frighten the crows , now I've got my ear droppers in . 
And Nancy was capable of keeping her word to herself under very trying conditions . 
It was not the rector's practice to let a charming blush pass without an appropriate compliment . 
But the Squire was rather impatient at Godfrey's showing himself a dull spark in this way . 
Even in this early stage of the jovial mood , it was natural that he should wish to supply his son's deficiencies by looking and speaking for him . 
It's true , most things are gone back'ard in these last thirty years the country's going down since the old king fell ill . 
No offence to you , madam , he added , bending to Mrs. Crackenthorp , who sat by him , I didn't know you when you were as young as Miss Nancy here . 
Miss Nancy's wonderful like what her mother was , though isn't she , Kimble ? said the stout lady of that name , looking round for her husband . 
But in that case the wiser people in Raveloe would employ Dr . 
Blick of Flitton as less unnatural . 
I hope the batch isn't near an end . 
Yes , indeed , it is , doctor , said Priscilla but I'll answer for it the next shall be as good . 
My pork pies don't turn out well by chance . 
He tapped his box , and looked round with a triumphant laugh . 
She saves a little pepper to sprinkle over her talk that's the reason why she never puts too much into her pies . 
That's an awful tit for tat . 
Here the vivacious doctor made a pathetic grimace . 
I suppose that's the sort of tit for tat adopted in your profession , Kimble , if you've a grudge against a patient , said the rector . 
Never do have a grudge against our patients , said Mr. Kimble , except when they leave us and then , you see , we haven't the chance of prescribing for 'em . 
Ha , Miss Nancy , he continued , suddenly skipping to Nancy's side , you won't forget your promise ? You're to save a dance for me , you know . 
Come , come , Kimble , don't you be too for'ard , said the Squire . 
Give the young uns fair play . 
There's my son Godfrey'll be wanting to have a round with you if you run off with Miss Nancy . 
He's bespoke her for the first dance , I'll be bound . 
Eh , sir ! what do you say ? he continued , throwing himself backward , and looking at Godfrey . 
No , I've not engaged myself , said Nancy , quietly , though blushingly . 
Then I hope you've no objections to dancing with me , said Godfrey , beginning to lose the sense that there was anything uncomfortable in this arrangement . 
No , no objections , said Nancy , in a cold tone . 
Ah , well , you're a lucky fellow , Godfrey , said uncle Kimble but you're my godson , so I won't stand in your way . 
Else I'm not so very old , eh , my dear ? he went on , skipping to his wife's side again . 
Bob , he called out to his third long legged son , who was at the other end of the room , open the door , and tell Solomon to come in . 
He shall give us a tune here . 
Bob obeyed , and Solomon walked in , fiddling as he walked , for he would on no account break off in the middle of a tune . 
Here , Solomon , said the Squire , with loud patronage . 
Round here , my man . 
Ah , I knew it was The flaxen headed ploughboy there's no finer tune . 
And wishing the same to you , Mr. Lammeter , sir and to the other gentlemen , and the madams , and the young lasses . 
As Solomon uttered the last words , he bowed in all directions solicitously , lest he should be wanting in due respect . 
But thereupon he immediately began to prelude , and fell into the tune which he knew would be taken as a special compliment by Mr. Lammeter . 
Thank ye , Solomon , thank ye , said Mr. Lammeter when the fiddle paused again . 
That's Over the hills and far away , that is . 
My father used to say to me , whenever we heard that tune , Ah , lad , I come from over the hills and far away . 
There's a many tunes I don't make head or tail of but that speaks to me like the blackbird's whistle . 
I suppose it's the name there's a deal in the name of a tune . 
Aye , aye , Solomon , we know what that means , said the Squire , rising . 
It's time to begin the dance , eh ? Lead the way , then , and we'll all follow you . 
That was as it should be that was what everybody had been used to and the charter of Raveloe seemed to be renewed by the ceremony . 
The Squire's pretty springe , considering his weight , said Mr. Macey , and he stamps uncommon well . 
Though he hasn't that grand way o' waving his hand as the Squire has . 
Talk o' nimbleness , look at Mrs. Osgood , said Ben Winthrop , who was holding his son Aaron between his knees . 
She trips along with her little steps , so as nobody can see how she goes it's like as if she had little wheels to her feet . 
She doesn't look a day older nor last year she's the finest made woman as is , let the next be where she will . 
I don't heed how the women are made , said Mr. Macey , with some contempt . 
They wear nayther coat nor breeches you can't make much out o' their shapes . 
I shouldn't wonder if she's Madam Cass some day , arter all and nobody more rightfuller , for they'd make a fine match . 
You can find nothing against Master Godfrey's shapes , Macey , I 'll bet a penny . 
Mr. Macey screwed up his mouth , leaned his head further on one side , and twirled his thumbs with a presto movement as his eyes followed Godfrey up the dance . 
At last he summed up his opinion . 
Pretty well down'ard , but a bit too round i' the shoulder blades . 
And as for them coats as he gets from the Flitton tailor , they're a poor cut to pay double money for . 
Ah , Mr. Macey , you and me are two folks , said Ben , slightly indignant at this carping . 
Tchuh ! said Mr. Macey , provoked to increased severity , he isn't come to his right colour yet he's partly like a slack baked pie . 
That wasn't my way when I went a coorting . 
Ah , but mayhap Miss Nancy hung off , like , and your lass didn't , said Ben . 
I should say she didn't , said Mr. Macey , significantly . 
Before I said sniff , I took care to know as she'd say snaff , and pretty quick too . 
I wasn't a going to open my mouth , like a dog at a fly , and snap it to again , wi' nothing to swaller . 
Well , I think Miss Nancy's a coming round again , said Ben , for Master Godfrey doesn't look so down hearted to night . 
And I see he's for taking her away to sit down , now they're at the end o' the dance that looks like sweethearting , that does . 
The reason why Godfrey and Nancy had left the dance was not so tender as Ben imagined . 
One's thoughts may be much occupied with love struggles , but hardly so as to be insensible to a disorder in the general framework of things . 
No reason less urgent than this could have prevailed on Nancy to give Godfrey this opportunity of sitting apart with her . 
Oh no , thank you , said Nancy , coldly , as soon as she perceived where he was going , not in there . 
I'll wait here till Priscilla's ready to come to me . 
I'm sorry to bring you out of the dance and make myself troublesome . 
Why , you'll be more comfortable here by yourself , said the artful Godfrey I'll leave you here till your sister can come . 
He spoke in an indifferent tone . 
Thank you , sir , she said immediately . 
I needn't give you any more trouble . 
I'm sorry you've had such an unlucky partner . 
That's very ill natured of you , said Godfrey , standing by her without any sign of intended departure , to be sorry you've danced with me . 
Oh , no , sir , I don't mean to say what's ill natured at all , said Nancy , looking distractingly prim and pretty . 
When gentlemen have so many pleasures , one dance can matter but very little . 
You know that isn't true . 
You know one dance with you matters more to me than all the other pleasures in the world . 
It was a long , long while since Godfrey had said anything so direct as that , and Nancy was startled . 
But if it's true , I don't wish to hear it . 
You're very hard hearted , Nancy , said Godfrey , pettishly . 
You might encourage me to be a better fellow . 
I'm very miserable but you've no feeling . 
I think those have the least feeling that act wrong to begin with , said Nancy , sending out a flash in spite of herself . 
Godfrey was delighted with that little flash , and would have liked to go on and make her quarrel with him Nancy was so exasperatingly quiet and firm . 
I suppose I must go now , he said to Priscilla . 
It's no matter to me whether you go or stay , said that frank lady , searching for something in her pocket , with a preoccupied brow . 
Do you want me to go ? said Godfrey , looking at Nancy , who was now standing up by Priscilla's order . 
As you like , said Nancy , trying to recover all her former coldness , and looking down carefully at the hem of her gown . 
Then I like to stay , said Godfrey , with a reckless determination to get as much of this joy as he could to night , and think nothing of the morrow . 
It is seldom that the miserable can help regarding their misery as a wrong inflicted by those who are less miserable . 
She knew this well and yet , in the moments of wretched unbenumbed consciousness , the sense of her want and degradation transformed itself continually into bitterness towards Godfrey . 
He was well off and if she had her rights she would be well off too . 
The belief that he repented his marriage , and suffered from it , only aggravated her vindictiveness . 
In another moment Molly had flung something away , but it was not the black remnant it was an empty phial . 
But she walked always more and more drowsily , and clutched more and more automatically the sleeping child at her bosom . 
Slowly the demon was working his will , and cold and weariness were his helpers . 
Soon she felt nothing but a supreme immediate longing that curtained off all futurity the longing to lie down and sleep . 
She sank down against a straggling furze bush , an easy pillow enough and the bed of snow , too , was soft . 
She did not feel that the bed was cold , and did not heed whether the child would wake and cry for her . 
But her arms had not yet relaxed their instinctive clutch and the little one slumbered on as gently as if it had been rocked in a lace trimmed cradle . 
That bright living thing must be caught and in an instant the child had slipped on all fours , and held out one little hand to catch the gleam . 
But the gleam would not be caught in that way , and now the head was held up to see where the cunning gleam came from . 
But presently the warmth had a lulling effect , and the little golden head sank down on the old sack , and the blue eyes were veiled by their delicate half transparent lids . 
But where was Silas Marner while this strange visitor had come to his hearth ? He was in the cottage , but he did not see the child . 
This was only a friendly Raveloe way of jesting with the half crazy oddities of a miser , but it had perhaps helped to throw Silas into a more than usually excited state . 
Since the on coming of twilight he had opened his door again and again , though only to shut it immediately at seeing all distance veiled by the falling snow . 
But the last time he opened it the snow had ceased , and the clouds were parting here and there . 
He thought he had been too long standing at the door and looking out . 
The heap of gold seemed to glow and get larger beneath his agitated gaze . 
He leaned forward at last , and stretched forth his hand but instead of the hard coin with the familiar resisting outline , his fingers encountered soft warm curls . 
It was very much like his little sister . 
Silas sank into his chair powerless , under the double presence of an inexplicable surprise and a hurrying influx of memories . 
How and when had the child come in without his knowledge ? He had never been beyond the door . 
But there was a cry on the hearth the child had awaked , and Marner stooped to lift it on his knee . 
It clung round his neck , and burst louder and louder into that mingling of inarticulate cries with mammy by which little children express the bewilderment of waking . 
He had plenty to do through the next hour . 
Under the prompting of this new idea , and without waiting to form conjectures , he raised the child in his arms , and went to the door . 
As soon as he had opened it , there was the cry of mammy again , which Silas had not heard since the child's first hungry waking . 
Bending forward , he could just discern the marks made by the little feet on the virgin snow , and he followed their track to the furze bushes . 
Godfrey was standing a little way off , not to admire his brother's dancing , but to keep sight of Nancy , who was seated in the group , near her father . 
But he had the prospect of dancing with her again when the hornpipe was concluded , and in the meanwhile it was very pleasant to get long glances at her quite unobserved . 
It was an apparition from that hidden life which lies , like a dark by street , behind the goodly ornamented facade that meets the sunlight and the gaze of respectable admirers . 
It was his own child , carried in Silas Marner's arms . 
Why , what's the matter , Marner ? said the rector . 
The doctor's here but say quietly what you want him for . 
It's a woman , said Silas , speaking low , and half breathlessly , just as Godfrey came up . 
She's dead , I think dead in the snow at the Stone pits not far from my door . 
Godfrey felt a great throb there was one terror in his mind at that moment it was , that the woman might not be dead . 
Hush , hush ! said Mr. Crackenthorp . 
Go out into the hall there . 
I'll fetch the doctor to you . 
Found a woman in the snow and thinks she's dead , he added , speaking low to the Squire . 
Better say as little about it as possible it will shock the ladies . 
Just tell them a poor woman is ill from cold and hunger . 
I'll go and fetch Kimble . 
What child is it ? said several ladies at once , and , among the rest , Nancy Lammeter , addressing Godfrey . 
I don't know some poor woman's who has been found in the snow , I believe , was the answer Godfrey wrung from himself with a terrible effort . 
I'll tell one o' the girls to fetch it . 
No no I can't part with it , I can't let it go , said Silas , abruptly . 
It's come to me I've a right to keep it . 
Did you ever hear the like ? said Mrs. Kimble , in mild surprise , to her neighbour . 
It's a nasty business turning out now , eh , Kimble ? said the Squire . 
Get me a pair of thick boots , Godfrey , will you ? And stay , let somebody run to Winthrop's and fetch Dolly she's the best woman to get . 
And I made haste and ran , and there was nobody to be seen at the back o' the house , and so I went in to where the company was . 
Godfrey had come back with the boots , and felt the cry as if some fibre were drawn tight within him . 
I'll go , he said , hastily , eager for some movement I'll go and fetch the woman Mrs. Winthrop . 
Oh , pooh send somebody else , said uncle Kimble , hurrying away with Marner . 
You'll let me know if I can be of any use , Kimble , said Mr. Crackenthorp . 
But the doctor was out of hearing . 
You'd a deal better go back , sir , said Dolly , with respectful compassion . 
Or else , there's Mrs. Snell 'ud happen send the boy up to fetch and carry , for there may be things wanted from the doctor's . 
No , I'll stay , now I'm once out I'll stay outside here , said Godfrey , when they came opposite Marner's cottage . 
You can come and tell me if I can do anything . 
Well , sir , you're very good you've a tender heart , said Dolly , going to the door . 
Godfrey was too painfully preoccupied to feel a twinge of self reproach at this undeserved praise . 
No , not quite unconscious of everything else . 
And at this moment his mind leaped away from all restraint toward the sudden prospect of deliverance from his long bondage . 
Is she dead ? said the voice that predominated over every other within him . 
If she is , I may marry Nancy and then I shall be a good fellow in future , and have no secrets , and the child shall be taken care of somehow . 
But across that vision came the other possibility She may live , and then it's all up with me . 
Godfrey never knew how long it was before the door of the cottage opened and Mr. Kimble came out . 
He went forward to meet his uncle , prepared to suppress the agitation he must feel , whatever news he was to hear . 
I waited for you , as I'd come so far , he said , speaking first . 
Pooh , it was nonsense for you to come out why didn't you send one of the men ? There's nothing to be done . 
She's dead has been dead for hours , I should say . 
What sort of woman is she ? said Godfrey , feeling the blood rush to his face . 
A young woman , but emaciated , with long black hair . 
Some vagrant quite in rags . 
She's got a wedding ring on , however . 
They must fetch her away to the workhouse to morrow . 
I want to look at her , said Godfrey . 
I think I saw such a woman yesterday . 
I'll overtake you in a minute or two . 
Mr. Kimble went on , and Godfrey turned back to the cottage . 
He turned immediately towards the hearth , where Silas Marner sat lulling the child . 
You'll take the child to the parish to morrow ? asked Godfrey , speaking as indifferently as he could . 
Who says so ? said Marner , sharply . 
The mother's dead , and I reckon it's got no father it's a lone thing and I'm a lone thing . 
My money's gone , I don't know where and this is come from I don't know where . 
I know nothing I'm partly mazed . 
Poor little thing ! said Godfrey . 
Let me give something towards finding it clothes . 
He had put his hand in his pocket and found half a guinea , and , thrusting it into Silas's hand , he hurried out of the cottage to overtake Mr. Kimble . 
Ah , I see it's not the same woman I saw , he said , as he came up . 
It's a pretty little child the old fellow seems to want to keep it that's strange for a miser like him . 
But I gave him a trifle to help him out the parish isn't likely to quarrel with him for the right to keep the child . 
No but I've seen the time when I might have quarrelled with him for it myself . 
It's too late now , though . 
If the child ran into the fire , your aunt's too fat to overtake it she could only sit and grunt like an alarmed sow . 
I was tired to death of jigging and gallanting , and that bother about the hornpipes . 
And I'd got to dance with the other Miss Gunn , said Godfrey , glad of the subterfuge his uncle had suggested to him . 
Dunsey might betray him if he came back but Dunsey might be won to silence . 
As for the child , he would see that it was cared for he would never forsake it he would do everything but own it . 
That was all the express note taken that Molly had disappeared from the eyes of men . 
Silas Marner's determination to keep the tramp's child was matter of hardly less surprise and iterated talk in the village than the robbery of his money . 
Among the notable mothers , Dolly Winthrop was the one whose neighbourly offices were the most acceptable to Marner , for they were rendered without any show of bustling instruction . 
Silas had shown her the half guinea given to him by Godfrey , and had asked her what he should do about getting some clothes for the child . 
The mammy was not a cry of need or uneasiness Baby had been used to utter it without expecting either tender sound or touch to follow . 
Anybody 'ud think the angils in heaven couldn't be prettier , said Dolly , rubbing the golden curls and kissing them . 
The door was open , and it walked in over the snow , like as if it had been a little starved robin . 
Didn't you say the door was open ? Yes , said Silas , meditatively . 
Yes the door was open . 
The money's gone I don't know where , and this is come from I don't know where . 
So , as I say , I'll come and see to the child for you , and welcome . 
kindly , said Silas , hesitating a little . 
I'll be glad if you'll tell me things . 
I've been used to fending for myself in the house I can learn , I can learn . 
Eh , to be sure , said Dolly , gently . 
I've seen men as are wonderful handy wi' children . 
You see this goes first , next the skin , proceeded Dolly , taking up the little shirt , and putting it on . 
See there , said Dolly , with a woman's tender tact , she's fondest o' you . 
She wants to go o' your lap , I'll be bound . 
Go , then take her , Master Marner you can put the things on , and then you can say as you've done for her from the first of her coming to you . 
Marner took her on his lap , trembling with an emotion mysterious to himself , at something unknown dawning on his life . 
He took the garments from Dolly , and put them on under her teaching interrupted , of course , by Baby's gymnastics . 
Silas meditated a little while in some perplexity . 
I'll tie her to the leg o' the loom , he said at last tie her with a good long strip o' something . 
Well , mayhap that'll do , as it's a little gell , for they're easier persuaded to sit i' one place nor the lads . 
But I'll bring you my little chair , and some bits o' red rag and things for her to play wi' an' she'll sit and chatter to 'em as if they was alive . 
But I can teach 'em this little un , Master Marner , when she gets old enough . 
But she'll be my little un , said Marner , rather hastily . 
No , to be sure you'll have a right to her , if you're a father to her , and bring her up according . 
That's what you must do , Master Marner , if you'd do the right thing by the orphin child . 
Marner's pale face flushed suddenly under a new anxiety . 
His mind was too busy trying to give some definite bearing to Dolly's words for him to think of answering her . 
He was puzzled and anxious , for Dolly's word christened conveyed no distinct meaning to him . 
He had only heard of baptism , and had only seen the baptism of grown up men and women . 
What is it as you mean by christened ? he said at last , timidly . 
Won't folks be good to her without it ? Dear , dear ! Master Marner , said Dolly , with gentle distress and compassion . 
But your ways are different my country was a good way off . 
He paused a few moments , and then added , more decidedly , But I want to do everything as can be done for the child . 
And whatever's right for it i' this country , and you think 'ull do it good , I'll act according , if you'll tell me . 
My mother's name was Hephzibah , said Silas , and my little sister was named after her . 
Eh , that's a hard name , said Dolly . 
I partly think it isn't a christened name . 
It's a Bible name , said Silas , old ideas recurring . 
My husband says I'm allays like as if I was putting the haft for the handle that's what he says for he's very sharp , God help him . 
Well , if it was noways wrong to shorten the name , it 'ud be a deal handier . 
Sorely was poor Silas puzzled on such occasions by the incompatible demands of love . 
To be sure , there's another thing you might do , Master Marner , added Dolly , meditatively you might shut her up once i' the coal hole . 
That was what I did wi' Aaron for I was that silly wi' the youngest lad , as I could never bear to smack him . 
One bright summer's morning Silas had been more engrossed than usual in setting up a new piece of work , an occasion on which his scissors were in requisition . 
It was not until he happened to need his scissors that the terrible fact burst upon him Eppie had run out by herself had perhaps fallen into the Stone pit . 
The cold drops stood on his brow . 
How long had she been out ? There was one hope that she had crept through the stile and got into the fields , where he habitually took her to stroll . 
A red headed calf was observing her with alarmed doubt through the opposite hedge . 
Naughty , naughty Eppie , he suddenly began , holding her on his knee , and pointing to her muddy feet and clothes naughty to cut with the scissors and run away . 
Eppie must go into the coal hole for being naughty . 
Daddy must put her in the coal hole . 
He half expected that this would be shock enough , and that Eppie would begin to cry . 
But instead of that , she began to shake herself on his knee , as if the proposition opened a pleasing novelty . 
Seeing that he must proceed to extremities , he put her into the coal hole , and held the door closed , with a trembling sense that he was using a strong measure . 
She'd take it all for fun , he observed to Dolly , if I didn't hurt her , and that I can't do , Mrs. Winthrop . 
If she makes me a bit o' trouble , I can bear it . 
And she's got no tricks but what she'll grow out of . 
That's what I do wi' the pups as the lads are allays a rearing . 
They will worry and gnaw worry and gnaw they will , if it was one's Sunday cap as hung anywhere so as they could drag it . 
They know no difference , God help 'em it's the pushing o' the teeth as sets 'em on , that's what it is . 
So Eppie was reared without punishment , the burden of her misdeeds being borne vicariously by father Silas . 
The stone hut was made a soft nest for her , lined with downy patience and also in the world that lay beyond the stone hut she knew nothing of frowns and denials . 
But now Silas met with open smiling faces and cheerful questioning , as a person whose satisfactions and difficulties could be understood . 
, it would be a fine thing for him to have a steady lass to do for him when he got helpless . 
And now something had come to replace his hoard which gave a growing purpose to the earnings , drawing his hope and joy continually onward beyond the money . 
In old days there were angels who came and took men by the hand and led them away from the city of destruction . 
We see no white winged angels now . 
CHAPTER XV There was one person , as you will believe , who watched with keener though more hidden interest than any other , the prosperous growth of Eppie under the weaver's care . 
Was he very uneasy in the meantime at his inability to give his daughter her birthright ? I cannot say that he was . 
The child was being taken care of , and would very likely be happy , as people in humble stations often were happier , perhaps , than those brought up in luxury . 
He was so undivided in his aims , that he seemed like a man of firmness . 
Godfrey had ceased to see the shadow of Dunsey across his path and the path now lay straight forward to the accomplishment of his best , longest cherished wishes . 
Godfrey himself , when he was asked jocosely if the day had been fixed , smiled with the pleasant consciousness of a lover who could say yes , if he liked . 
He felt a reformed man , delivered from temptation and the vision of his future life seemed to him as a promised land for which he had no cause to fight . 
He saw himself with all his happiness centred on his own hearth , while Nancy would smile on him as he played with the children . 
And that other child not on the hearth he would not forget it he would see that it was well provided for . 
That was a father's duty . 
PART TWO CHAPTER XVI It was a bright autumn Sunday , sixteen years after Silas Marner had found his new treasure on the hearth . 
Foremost among these advancing groups of well clad people , there are some whom we shall recognize , in spite of Time , who has laid his hand on them all . 
Often the soul is ripened into fuller goodness while age has spread an ugly film , so that mere glances can never divine the preciousness of the fruit . 
But the years have not been so cruel to Nancy . 
She does not like to be blameworthy even in small things you see how neatly her prayer book is folded in her spotted handkerchief . 
It'll be play to me after I've done my day's work , or any odd bits o' time when the work's slack . 
And I'll bring you some soil from Mr. Cass's garden he'll let me , and willing . 
Eh , Aaron , my lad , are you there ? said Silas I wasn't aware of you for when Eppie's talking o' things , I see nothing but what she's a saying . 
Well , if you could help me with the digging , we might get her a bit o' garden all the sooner . 
But not if you don't promise me not to work at the hard digging , father , said Eppie . 
It'll be a deal livelier at the Stone pits when we've got some flowers , for I always think the flowers can see us and know what we're talking about . 
And I'll have a bit o' rosemary , and bergamot , and thyme , because they're so sweet smelling but there's no lavender only in the gentlefolks' gardens , I think . 
There's a big bed o' lavender at the Red House the missis is very fond of it . 
It sets one thinking o' that gardening does . 
But I must go back now , else mother 'ull be in trouble as I aren't there . 
Aaron turned back up the village , while Silas and Eppie went on up the lonely sheltered lane . 
O daddy ! she began , when they were in privacy , clasping and squeezing Silas's arm , and skipping round to give him an energetic kiss . 
My little old daddy ! I'm so glad . 
You're a deep little puss , you are , said Silas , with the mild passive happiness of love crowned age in his face but you'll make yourself fine and beholden to Aaron . 
Oh , no , I shan't , said Eppie , laughing and frisking he likes it . 
Come , come , let me carry your prayer book , else you'll be dropping it , jumping i' that way . 
But the sound of a sharp bark inside , as Eppie put the key in the door , modified the donkey's views , and he limped away again without bidding . 
The presence of this happy animal life was not the only change which had come over the interior of the stone cottage . 
There was no bed now in the living room , and the small space was well filled with decent furniture , all bright and clean enough to satisfy Dolly Winthrop's eye . 
Nobody was jealous of the weaver , for he was regarded as an exceptional person , whose claims on neighbourly help were not to be matched in Raveloe . 
But at last Eppie , glancing at the clock , checked the play , and said , O daddy , you're wanting to go into the sunshine to smoke your pipe . 
But I must clear away first , so as the house may be tidy when godmother comes . 
I'll make haste I won't be long . 
Oh , dear , dear , said Dolly in a grieved voice , as if she were hearing an unfavourable report of a sick man's case . 
I can never rightly know the meaning o' what I hear at church , only a bit here and there , but I know it's good words I do . 
Eh , but he was a bad un I can't think as there's another such , said Dolly . 
But I'm o'ercome , Master Marner I'm like as if I'd waked and didn't know whether it was night or morning . 
But we'll talk on it again for sometimes things come into my head when I'm leeching or poulticing , or such , as I could never think on when I was sitting still . 
Dolly was too useful a woman not to have many opportunities of illumination of the kind she alluded to , and she was not long before she recurred to the subject . 
But you can mostly say something as I can make sense on , Mrs. Winthrop , said Silas . 
And all as we've got to do is to trusten , Master Marner to do the right thing as fur as we know , and to trusten . 
And if you could but ha' gone on trustening , Master Marner , you wouldn't ha' run away from your fellow creaturs and been so lone . 
Ah , but that 'ud ha' been hard , said Silas , in an under tone it 'ud ha' been hard to trusten then . 
And so it would , said Dolly , almost with compunction them things are easier said nor done and I'm partly ashamed o' talking . 
Nay , nay , said Silas , you're i' the right , Mrs. Winthrop you're i' the right . 
That drawing o' the lots is dark but the child was sent to me there's dealings with us there's dealings . 
The furze bush was there still and this afternoon , when Eppie came out with Silas into the sunshine , it was the first object that arrested her eyes and thoughts . 
And fencing's hard to be got at , by what I can make out . 
Oh , I'll tell you , daddy , said Eppie , clasping her hands suddenly , after a minute's thought . 
There's lots o' loose stones about , some of 'em not big , and we might lay 'em atop of one another , and make a wall . 
You and me could carry the smallest , and Aaron 'ud carry the rest I know he would . 
You're dillicate made , my dear , he added , with a tender intonation that's what Mrs. Winthrop says . 
Oh , father , just come and look here , she exclaimed come and see how the water's gone down since yesterday . 
Why , yesterday the pit was ever so full ! Well , to be sure , said Silas , coming to her side . 
Why , that's the draining they've begun on , since harvest , i' Mr. Osgood's fields , I reckon . 
It was Mr. Godfrey Cass , he said , had gone into the draining he'd been taking these fields o' Mr. Osgood . 
How odd it'll seem to have the old pit dried up ! said Eppie , turning away , and stooping to lift rather a large stone . 
See , daddy , I can carry this quite well , she said , going along with much energy for a few steps , but presently letting it fall . 
Ah , you're fine and strong , aren't you ? said Silas , while Eppie shook her aching arms and laughed . 
Come , come , let us go and sit down on the bank against the stile there , and have no more lifting . 
You might hurt yourself , child . 
You'd need have somebody to work for you and my arm isn't over strong . 
An ash in the hedgerow behind made a fretted screen from the sun , and threw happy playful shadows all about them . 
And who is it as he's wanting to marry ? said Silas , with rather a sad smile . 
Yes , some time , said Eppie , I don't know when . 
Everybody's married some time , Aaron says . 
But I told him that wasn't true for , I said , look at father he's never been married . 
No , child , said Silas , your father was a lone man till you was sent to him . 
But you'll never be lone again , father , said Eppie , tenderly . 
That was what Aaron said I could never think o' taking you away from Master Marner , Eppie . 
And I said , It 'ud be no use if you did , Aaron . 
And should you like that , Eppie ? said Silas , looking at her . 
I shouldn't mind it , father , said Eppie , quite simply . 
And I should like things to be so as you needn't work much . 
But if it wasn't for that , I'd sooner things didn't change . 
But I don't want any change , said Eppie . 
I should like to go on a long , long while , just as we are . 
Eh , my blessed child , said Silas , laying down his pipe as if it were useless to pretend to smoke any longer , you're o'er young to be married . 
We'll ask Mrs. Winthrop we'll ask Aaron's mother what she thinks if there's a right thing to do , she'll come at it . 
I shall get older and helplesser , and be a burden on you , belike , if I don't go away from you altogether . 
Silas paused , and , resting his wrists on his knees , lifted his hands up and down meditatively as he looked on the ground . 
Then , would you like me to be married , father ? said Eppie , with a little trembling in her voice . 
I'll not be the man to say no , Eppie , said Silas , emphatically but we'll ask your godmother . 
She'll wish the right thing by you and her son too . 
There they come , then , said Eppie . 
Let us go and meet 'em . 
Oh , the pipe ! won't you have it lit again , father ? said Eppie , lifting that medicinal appliance from the ground . 
Nay , child , said Silas , I've done enough for to day . 
I think , mayhap , a little of it does me more good than so much at once . 
A great change has come over the dark wainscoted parlour since we saw it in Godfrey's bachelor days , and under the wifeless reign of the old Squire . 
All is purity and order in this once dreary room , for , fifteen years ago , it was entered by a new presiding spirit . 
The old gentleman had been talking with Godfrey about the increasing poor rate and the ruinous times , and had not heard the dialogue between his daughters . 
My dear , you must ask Priscilla , he said , in the once firm voice , now become rather broken . 
She manages me and the farm too . 
And reason good as I should manage you , father , said Priscilla , else you'd be giving yourself your death with rheumatism . 
It's a deal the best way o' being master , to let somebody else do the ordering , and keep the blaming in your own hands . 
It 'ud save many a man a stroke , I believe . 
Well , well , my dear , said her father , with a quiet laugh , I didn't say you don't manage for everybody's good . 
Then manage so as you may stay tea , Priscilla , said Nancy , putting her hand on her sister's arm affectionately . 
Come now and we'll go round the garden while father has his nap . 
My dear child , he'll have a beautiful nap in the gig , for I shall drive . 
That's the way with 'em all it's as if they thought the world 'ud be new made because they're to be married . 
So come and let me put my bonnet on , and there'll be time for us to walk round the garden while the horse is being put in . 
It's a thousand pities you didn't do it before for it'll give you something to fill your mind . 
There's nothing like a dairy if folks want a bit o' worrit to make the days pass . 
My dear , added Priscilla , pressing her sister's hand affectionately as they walked side by side , you'll never be low when you've got a dairy . 
And it's only what he cares for that ever makes me low . 
I'm contented with the blessings we have , if he could be contented . 
But joyful be it spoken , our father was never that sort o' man . 
Oh , don't say so , Priscilla , said Nancy , repenting that she had called forth this outburst nobody has any occasion to find fault with Godfrey . 
There's many another man 'ud hanker more than he does . 
He's the best of husbands . 
But father'll be waiting for me we must turn now . 
I always would have a good horse , you know , said the old gentleman , not liking that spirited time to be quite effaced from the memory of his juniors . 
I shall just take a turn to the fields against the Stone pits , Nancy , and look at the draining , said Godfrey . 
You'll be in again by tea time , dear ? Oh , yes , I shall be back in an hour . 
It was Godfrey's custom on a Sunday afternoon to do a little contemplative farming in a leisurely walk . 
But Nancy's Sunday thoughts were rarely quite out of keeping with the devout and reverential intention implied by the book spread open before her . 
There was one main thread of painful experience in Nancy's married life , and on it hung certain deeply felt scenes , which were the oftenest revived in retrospect . 
The short dialogue with Priscilla in the garden had determined the current of retrospect in that frequent direction this particular Sunday afternoon . 
Perhaps it was this very severity towards any indulgence of what she held to be sinful regret in herself , that made her shrink from applying her own standard to her husband . 
And always , when Nancy reached this point in her meditations trying , with predetermined sympathy , to see everything as Godfrey saw it there came a renewal of self questioning . 
They were firm , not because of their basis , but because she held them with a tenacity inseparable from her mental action . 
She carried these decided judgments within her in the most unobtrusive way they rooted themselves in her mind , and grew there as quietly as grass . 
That was a trivial but typical instance of the mode in which Nancy's life was regulated . 
It was one of those rigid principles , and no petty egoistic feeling , which had been the ground of Nancy's difficult resistance to her husband's wish . 
When you saw a thing was not meant to be , said Nancy , it was a bounden duty to leave off so much as wishing for it . 
And so far , perhaps , the wisest of men could scarcely make more than a verbal improvement in her principle . 
But the conditions under which she held it apparent that a thing was not meant to be , depended on a more peculiar mode of thinking . 
But why should you think the child would turn out ill ? said Godfrey , in his remonstrances . 
She has thriven as well as child can do with the weaver and he adopted her . 
There isn't such a pretty little girl anywhere else in the parish , or one fitter for the station we could give her . 
The child may not turn out ill with the weaver . 
But , then , he didn't go to seek her , as we should be doing . 
It will be wrong I feel sure it will . 
Dear Godfrey , don't ask me to do what I know is wrong I should never be happy again . 
I know it's very hard for you it's easier for me but it's the will of Providence . 
Godfrey had from the first specified Eppie , then about twelve years old , as a child suitable for them to adopt . 
It had never occurred to him that Silas would rather part with his life than with Eppie . 
This possibility was Nancy's chief comfort and to give it greater strength , she laboured to make it impossible that any other wife should have had more perfect tenderness . 
She had been forced to vex him by that one denial . 
Godfrey was not insensible to her loving effort , and did Nancy no injustice as to the motives of her obstinacy . 
And the child , too , he thought , must become an object of repulsion the very sight of her would be painful . 
The shock to Nancy's mingled pride and ignorance of the world's evil might even be too much for her delicate frame . 
Since he had married her with that secret on his heart , he must keep it there to the last . 
Whatever else he did , he could not make an irreparable breach between himself and this long loved wife . 
On this Sunday afternoon it was already four years since there had been any allusion to the subject between them , and Nancy supposed that it was for ever buried . 
I wonder if he'll mind it less or more as he gets older , she thought I'm afraid more . 
Aged people feel the miss of children what would father do without Priscilla ? And if I die , Godfrey will be very lonely not holding together with his brothers much . 
But I won't be over anxious , and trying to make things out beforehand I must do my best for the present . 
With that last thought Nancy roused herself from her reverie , and turned her eyes again towards the forsaken page . 
It had been forsaken longer than she imagined , for she was presently surprised by the appearance of the servant with the tea things . 
It was , in fact , a little before the usual time for tea but Jane had her reasons . 
I don't know whether you've seen 'em , 'm , continued Jane , after a pause , but there's folks making haste all one way , afore the front window . 
There's niver a man to be seen i' the yard , else I'd send and see . 
I've been up into the top attic , but there's no seeing anything for trees . 
I hope nobody's hurt , that's all . 
Oh , no , I daresay there's nothing much the matter , said Nancy . 
It's perhaps Mr. Snell's bull got out again , as he did before . 
I wish he mayn't gore anybody then , that's all , said Jane , not altogether despising a hypothesis which covered a few imaginary calamities . 
That girl is always terrifying me , thought Nancy I wish Godfrey would come in . 
Before such calm external beauty the presence of a vague fear is more distinctly felt like a raven flapping its slow wing across the sunny air . 
Nancy wished more and more that Godfrey would come in . 
CHAPTER XVIII Some one opened the door at the other end of the room , and Nancy felt that it was her husband . 
She turned from the window with gladness in her eyes , for the wife's chief dread was stilled . 
Dear , I'm so thankful you're come , she said , going towards him . 
She laid her hand on his arm , not daring to speak again but he left the touch unnoticed , and threw himself into his chair . 
Jane was already at the door with the hissing urn . 
Tell her to keep away , will you ? said Godfrey and when the door was closed again he exerted himself to speak more distinctly . 
Sit down , Nancy there , he said , pointing to a chair opposite him . 
I came back as soon as I could , to hinder anybody's telling you but me . 
I've had a great shock but I care most about the shock it'll be to you . 
It isn't father and Priscilla ? said Nancy , with quivering lips , clasping her hands together tightly on her lap . 
No , it's nobody living , said Godfrey , unequal to the considerate skill with which he would have wished to make his revelation . 
It's Dunstan my brother Dunstan , that we lost sight of sixteen years ago . 
We've found him found his body his skeleton . 
The deep dread Godfrey's look had created in Nancy made her feel these words a relief . 
She sat in comparative calmness to hear what else he had to tell . 
He went on The Stone pit has gone dry suddenly from the draining , I suppose and there he lies has lain for sixteen years , wedged between two great stones . 
Godfrey paused it was not so easy to say what came next . 
No , he fell in , said Godfrey , in a low but distinct voice , as if he felt some deep meaning in the fact . 
Presently he added Dunstan was the man that robbed Silas Marner . 
The blood rushed to Nancy's face and neck at this surprise and shame , for she had been bred up to regard even a distant kinship with crime as a dishonour . 
O Godfrey ! she said , with compassion in her tone , for she had immediately reflected that the dishonour must be felt still more keenly by her husband . 
There was the money in the pit , he continued all the weaver's money . 
Everything's been gathered up , and they're taking the skeleton to the Rainbow . 
But I came back to tell you there was no hindering it you must know . 
He was silent , looking on the ground for two long minutes . 
Nancy would have said some words of comfort under this disgrace , but she refrained , from an instinctive sense that there was something behind that Godfrey had something else to tell her . 
Presently he lifted his eyes to her face , and kept them fixed on her , as he said Everything comes to light , Nancy , sooner or later . 
When God Almighty wills it , our secrets are found out . 
I've lived with a secret on my mind , but I'll keep it from you no longer . 
I wouldn't have you know it by somebody else , and not by me I wouldn't have you find it out after I'm dead . 
It's been I will and I won't with me all my life I'll make sure of myself now . 
Nancy's utmost dread had returned . 
The eyes of the husband and wife met with awe in them , as at a crisis which suspended affection . 
Nancy , said Godfrey , slowly , when I married you , I hid something from you something I ought to have told you . 
That woman Marner found dead in the snow Eppie's mother that wretched woman was my wife Eppie is my child . 
He paused , dreading the effect of his confession . 
But Nancy sat quite still , only that her eyes dropped and ceased to meet his . 
She was pale and quiet as a meditative statue , clasping her hands on her lap . 
You'll never think the same of me again , said Godfrey , after a little while , with some tremor in his voice . 
I oughtn't to have left the child unowned I oughtn't to have kept it from you . 
But I couldn't bear to give you up , Nancy . 
I was led away into marrying her I suffered for it . 
Still Nancy was silent , looking down and he almost expected that she would presently get up and say she would go to her father's . 
There was no indignation in her voice only deep regret . 
Godfrey , if you had but told me this six years ago , we could have done some of our duty by the child . 
He had not measured this wife with whom he had lived so long . 
But she spoke again , with more agitation . 
The tears fell , and Nancy ceased to speak . 
You may think you would now , but you wouldn't then . 
With your pride and your father's , you'd have hated having anything to do with me after the talk there'd have been . 
I can't say what I should have done about that , Godfrey . 
I should never have married anybody else . 
But I wasn't worth doing wrong for nothing is in this world . 
Nothing is so good as it seems beforehand not even our marrying wasn't , you see . 
There was a faint sad smile on Nancy's face as she said the last words . 
I'm a worse man than you thought I was , Nancy , said Godfrey , rather tremulously . 
Can you forgive me ever ? The wrong to me is but little , Godfrey you've made it up to me you've been good to me for fifteen years . 
It's another you did the wrong to and I doubt it can never be all made up for . 
But we can take Eppie now , said Godfrey . 
I won't mind the world knowing at last . 
I'll be plain and open for the rest o' my life . 
It'll be different coming to us , now she's grown up , said Nancy , shaking her head sadly . 
But it's your duty to acknowledge her and provide for her and I'll do my part by her , and pray to God Almighty to make her love me . 
Then we'll go together to Silas Marner's this very night , as soon as everything's quiet at the Stone pits . 
CHAPTER XIX Between eight and nine o'clock that evening , Eppie and Silas were seated alone in the cottage . 
Any one who has watched such moments in other men remembers the brightness of the eyes and the strange definiteness that comes over coarse features from that transient influence . 
Silas's face showed that sort of transfiguration , as he sat in his arm chair and looked at Eppie . 
She had drawn her own chair towards his knees , and leaned forward , holding both his hands , while she looked up at him . 
He had been telling her how he used to count it every night , and how his soul was utterly desolate till she was sent to him . 
But that didn't last long . 
You didn't know then , Eppie , when you were such a little un you didn't know what your old father Silas felt for you . 
But I know now , father , said Eppie . 
If it hadn't been for you , they'd have taken me to the workhouse , and there'd have been nobody to love me . 
Eh , my precious child , the blessing was mine . 
If you hadn't been sent to save me , I should ha' gone to the grave in my misery . 
The money was taken away from me in time and you see it's been kept kept till it was wanted for you . 
It's wonderful our life is wonderful . 
Silas sat in silence a few minutes , looking at the money . 
It takes no hold of me now , he said , ponderingly the money doesn't . 
I wonder if it ever could again I doubt it might , if I lost you , Eppie . 
I might come to think I was forsaken again , and lose the feeling that God was good to me . 
At that moment there was a knocking at the door and Eppie was obliged to rise without answering Silas . 
Beautiful she looked , with the tenderness of gathering tears in her eyes and a slight flush on her cheeks , as she stepped to open the door . 
The flush deepened when she saw Mr. and Mrs. Godfrey Cass . 
She made her little rustic curtsy , and held the door wide for them to enter . 
We're disturbing you very late , my dear , said Mrs. Cass , taking Eppie's hand , and looking in her face with an expression of anxious interest and admiration . 
Nancy herself was pale and tremulous . 
Eppie , after placing chairs for Mr. and Mrs. Cass , went to stand against Silas , opposite to them . 
It was one of my family did you the wrong the more grief to me and I feel bound to make up to you for it in every way . 
Whatever I can do for you will be nothing but paying a debt , even if I looked no further than the robbery . 
But there are other things I'm beholden shall be beholden to you for , Marner . 
Nancy had urged this , because she felt strongly the painful light in which Eppie must inevitably see the relation between her father and mother . 
As for the robbery , I count it no loss to me . 
And if I did , you couldn't help it you aren't answerable for it . 
You may look at it in that way , Marner , but I never can and I hope you'll let me act according to my own feeling of what's just . 
I know you're easily contented you've been a hard working man all your life . 
Yes , sir , yes , said Marner , meditatively . 
I should ha' been bad off without my work it was what I held by when everything else was gone from me . 
But you're getting rather past such close work , Marner it's time you laid by and had some rest . 
You look a good deal pulled down , though you're not an old man , are you ? Fifty five , as near as I can say , sir , said Silas . 
Oh , why , you may live thirty years longer look at old Macey ! And that money on the table , after all , is but little . 
Eh , sir , said Silas , unaffected by anything Godfrey was saying , I'm in no fear o' want . 
We shall do very well Eppie and me 'ull do well enough . 
There's few working folks have got so much laid by as that . 
I don't know what it is to gentlefolks , but I look upon it as a deal almost too much . 
And as for us , it's little we want . 
Only the garden , father , said Eppie , blushing up to the ears the moment after . 
You love a garden , do you , my dear ? said Nancy , thinking that this turn in the point of view might help her husband . 
We should agree in that I give a deal of time to the garden . 
You've done a good part by Eppie , Marner , for sixteen years . 
A slight flush came over Marner's face , and disappeared , like a passing gleam . 
Eppie was simply wondering Mr. Cass should talk so about things that seemed to have nothing to do with reality but Silas was hurt and uneasy . 
I don't take your meaning , sir , he answered , not having words at command to express the mingled feelings with which he had heard Mr. Cass's words . 
Well , my meaning is this , Marner , said Godfrey , determined to come to the point . 
Mrs. Cass and I , you know , have no children nobody to benefit by our good home and everything else we have more than enough for ourselves . 
And we should like to have somebody in the place of a daughter to us we should like to have Eppie , and treat her in every way as our own child . 
And it's right you should have every reward for that . 
A plain man like Godfrey Cass , speaking under some embarrassment , necessarily blunders on words that are coarser than his intentions , and that are likely to fall gratingly on susceptible feelings . 
While he had been speaking , Eppie had quietly passed her arm behind Silas's head , and let her hand rest against it caressingly she felt him trembling violently . 
He was silent for some moments when Mr. Cass had ended powerless under the conflict of emotions , all alike painful . 
I won't stand in your way . 
Thank Mr. and Mrs. Cass . 
Eppie took her hand from her father's head , and came forward a step . 
Her cheeks were flushed , but not with shyness this time the sense that her father was in doubt and suffering banished that sort of self consciousness . 
She dropped a low curtsy , first to Mrs. Cass and then to Mr. Cass , and said Thank you , ma'am thank you , sir . 
But I can't leave my father , nor own anybody nearer than him . 
And I don't want to be a lady thank you all the same . 
I couldn't give up the folks I've been used to . 
Eppie's lips began to tremble a little at the last words . 
She retreated to her father's chair again , and held him round the neck while Silas , with a subdued sob , put up his hand to grasp hers . 
The tears were in Nancy's eyes , but her sympathy with Eppie was , naturally , divided with distress on her husband's account . 
She dared not speak , wondering what was going on in her husband's mind . 
Godfrey felt an irritation inevitable to almost all of us when we encounter an unexpected obstacle . 
The agitation with which he spoke again was not quite unmixed with anger . 
But I've a claim on you , Eppie the strongest of all claims . 
It's my duty , Marner , to own Eppie as my child , and provide for her . 
She is my own child her mother was my wife . 
I've a natural claim on her that must stand before every other . 
Eppie had given a violent start , and turned quite pale . 
I know that , Marner . 
I've repented of my conduct in that matter , said Godfrey , who could not help feeling the edge of Silas's words . 
I'm glad to hear it , sir , said Marner , with gathering excitement but repentance doesn't alter what's been going on for sixteen year . 
Your coming now and saying I'm her father doesn't alter the feelings inside us . 
It's me she's been calling her father ever since she could say the word . 
But I think you might look at the thing more reasonably , Marner , said Godfrey , unexpectedly awed by the weaver's direct truth speaking . 
It isn't as if she was to be taken quite away from you , so that you'd never see her again . 
She'll be very near you , and come to see you very often . 
She'll feel just the same towards you . 
Just the same ? said Marner , more bitterly than ever . 
You'd cut us i' two . 
Godfrey , unqualified by experience to discern the pregnancy of Marner's simple words , felt rather angry again . 
to oppose what was undoubtedly for Eppie's welfare and he felt himself called upon , for her sake , to assert his authority . 
I want to do my duty . 
It would be difficult to say whether it were Silas or Eppie that was more deeply stirred by this last speech of Godfrey's . 
For many moments he was mute , struggling for the self conquest necessary to the uttering of the difficult words . 
Let it be as you will . 
Hence she heard Silas's last words with relief , and thought , as Godfrey did , that their wish was achieved . 
And you'll have the best of mothers in my wife that'll be a blessing you haven't known since you were old enough to know it . 
My dear , you'll be a treasure to me , said Nancy , in her gentle voice . 
We shall want for nothing when we have our daughter . 
Eppie did not come forward and curtsy , as she had done before . 
Thank you , ma'am thank you , sir , for your offers they're very great , and far above my wish . 
We've been used to be happy together every day , and I can't think o' no happiness without him . 
And he says he'd nobody i' the world till I was sent to him , and he'd have nothing when I was gone . 
And he's took care of me and loved me from the first , and I'll cleave to him as long as he lives , and nobody shall ever come between him and me . 
His sensitiveness on this point had increased as he listened to Eppie's words of faithful affection . 
I can never be sorry , father , said Eppie . 
I shouldn't know what to think on or to wish for with fine things about me , as I haven't been used to . 
What could I care for then ? Nancy looked at Godfrey with a pained questioning glance . 
But his eyes were fixed on the floor , where he was moving the end of his stick , as if he were pondering on something absently . 
She thought there was a word which might perhaps come better from her lips than from his . 
There's perhaps something to be given up on more sides than one . 
When your father opens his home to you , I think it's right you shouldn't turn your back on it . 
I can't feel as I've got any father but one , said Eppie , impetuously , while the tears gathered . 
I've always thought of a little home where he'd sit i' the corner , and I should fend and do everything for him I can't think o' no other home . 
I wasn't brought up to be a lady , and I can't turn my mind to it . 
I like the working folks , and their victuals , and their ways . 
And , she ended passionately , while the tears fell , I'm promised to marry a working man , as'll live with father , and help me to take care of him . 
Godfrey looked up at Nancy with a flushed face and smarting dilated eyes . 
Let us go , he said , in an under tone . 
We won't talk of this any longer now , said Nancy , rising . 
We're your well wishers , my dear and yours too , Marner . 
We shall come and see you again . 
In this way she covered her husband's abrupt departure , for Godfrey had gone straight to the door , unable to say more . 
CHAPTER XX Nancy and Godfrey walked home under the starlight in silence . 
At last Godfrey turned his head towards her , and their eyes met , dwelling in that meeting without any movement on either side . 
It wouldn't be right to want to force her to come to us against her will . 
We can't alter her bringing up and what's come of it . 
While I've been putting off and putting off , the trees have been growing it's too late now . 
Marner was in the right in what he said about a man's turning away a blessing from his door it falls to somebody else . 
I wanted to pass for childless once , Nancy I shall pass for childless now against my wish . 
I must do what I can for her in the state of life she chooses . 
I must see who it is she's thinking of marrying . 
I shall put it in my will I think I shall put it in my will . 
I shouldn't like to leave anything to be found out , like this of Dunsey , said Godfrey , meditatively . 
But I can't see anything but difficulties that 'ud come from telling it now . 
I must do what I can to make her happy in her own way . 
I've a notion , he added , after a moment's pause , it's Aaron Winthrop she meant she was engaged to . 
I remember seeing him with her and Marner going away from church . 
Well , he's very sober and industrious , said Nancy , trying to view the matter as cheerfully as possible . 
Godfrey fell into thoughtfulness again . 
I think she took a dislike to me at the thought of my being her father I could see a change in her manner after that . 
She couldn't bear to think of not looking on Marner as her father , said Nancy , not wishing to confirm her husband's painful impression . 
She thinks I did wrong by her mother as well as by her . 
She thinks me worse than I am . 
But she must think it she can never know all . 
It's part of my punishment , Nancy , for my daughter to dislike me . 
I should never have got into that trouble if I'd been true to you if I hadn't been a fool . 
I'd no right to expect anything but evil could come of that marriage and when I shirked doing a father's part too . 
Nancy was silent her spirit of rectitude would not let her try to soften the edge of what she felt to be a just compunction . 
He spoke again after a little while , but the tone was rather changed there was tenderness mingled with the previous self reproach . 
And I got you , Nancy , in spite of all and yet I've been grumbling and uneasy because I hadn't something else as if I deserved it . 
You've never been wanting to me , Godfrey , said Nancy , with quiet sincerity . 
My only trouble would be gone if you resigned yourself to the lot that's been given us . 
Well , perhaps it isn't too late to mend a bit there . 
Though it is too late to mend some things , say what they will . 
I've been turning it over and over in the night , and I think we'll set out to morrow , while the fine days last . 
We'll leave the house and everything for your godmother to take care on , and we'll make a little bundle o' things and set out . 
Where to go , daddy ? said Eppie , in much surprise . 
To my old country to the town where I was born up Lantern Yard . 
I want to see Mr. Paston , the minister something may ha' come out to make 'em know I was innicent o' the robbery . 
And Mr. Paston was a man with a deal o' light I want to speak to him about the drawing o' the lots . 
And I should like to talk to him about the religion o' this country side , for I partly think he doesn't know on it . 
Eppie was very joyful , for there was the prospect not only of wonder and delight at seeing a strange country , but also of coming back to tell Aaron all about it . 
Aaron was so much wiser than she was about most things it would be rather pleasant to have this little advantage over him . 
You'd be easier in your mind for the rest o' your life , Master Marner , said Dolly that you would . 
Eh , my child , he won't know anything about it , said Silas gentlefolks didn't ever go up the Yard . 
But happen somebody can tell me which is the way to Prison Street , where the jail is . 
I know the way out o' that as if I'd seen it yesterday . 
Ah , he said , drawing a long breath , there's the jail , Eppie that's just the same I aren't afraid now . 
It's the third turning on the left hand from the jail doors that's the way we must go . 
Oh , what a dark ugly place ! said Eppie . 
How it hides the sky ! It's worse than the Workhouse . 
I'm glad you don't live in this town now , father . 
Is Lantern Yard like this street ? My precious child , said Silas , smiling , it isn't a big street like this . 
I never was easy i' this street myself , but I was fond o' Lantern Yard . 
The shops here are all altered , I think I can't make 'em out but I shall know the turning , because it's the third . 
Here it is , he said , in a tone of satisfaction , as they came to a narrow alley . 
Eh , I can see it all . 
O father , I'm like as if I was stifled , said Eppie . 
I couldn't ha' thought as any folks lived i' this way , so close together . 
How pretty the Stone pits 'ull look when we get back ! It looks comical to me , child , now and smells bad . 
I can't think as it usened to smell so . 
They were before an opening in front of a large factory , from which men and women were streaming for their midday meal . 
Father , said Eppie , clasping his arm , what's the matter ? But she had to speak again and again before Silas could answer her . 
It's gone , child , he said , at last , in strong agitation Lantern Yard's gone . 
Perhaps the people can tell you all about it . 
The old place is all swep' away , Silas said to Dolly Winthrop on the night of his return the little graveyard and everything . 
The old home's gone I've no home but this now . 
I shall never know whether they got at the truth o' the robbery , nor whether Mr. Paston could ha' given me any light about the drawing o' the lots . 
It's dark to me , Mrs. Winthrop , that is I doubt it'll be dark to the last . 
Well , yes , Master Marner , said Dolly , who sat with a placid listening face , now bordered by grey hairs I doubt it may . 
No , said Silas , no that doesn't hinder . 
There was one time of the year which was held in Raveloe to be especially suitable for a wedding . 
Happily the sunshine fell more warmly than usual on the lilac tufts the morning that Eppie was married , for her dress was a very light one . 
One hand was on her husband's arm , and with the other she clasped the hand of her father Silas . 
You won't be giving me away , father , she had said before they went to church you'll only be taking Aaron to be a son to you . 
Dolly Winthrop walked behind with her husband and there ended the little bridal procession . 
They had come to keep Nancy company to day , because Mr. Cass had had to go away to Lytherley , for special reasons . 
Yes , my dear , yes , said Mr. Lammeter one feels that as one gets older . 
Things look dim to old folks they'd need have some young eyes about 'em , to let 'em know the world's the same as it used to be . 
Nancy came out now to welcome her father and sister and the wedding group had passed on beyond the Red House to the humbler part of the village . 
Mr. Macey's looking for a word from us , said Dolly he'll be hurt if we pass him and say nothing and him so racked with rheumatiz . 
So they turned aside to shake hands with the old man . 
He had looked forward to the occasion , and had his premeditated speech . 
Well , Master Marner , he said , in a voice that quavered a good deal , I've lived to see my words come true . 
I was the first to say there was no harm in you , though your looks might be again' you and I was the first to say you'd get your money back . 
And it's nothing but rightful as you should . 
And I'd ha' said the Amens , and willing , at the holy matrimony but Tookey's done it a good while now , and I hope you'll have none the worse luck . 
In the open yard before the Rainbow the party of guests were already assembled , though it was still nearly an hour before the appointed feast time . 
Even the farrier did not negative this sentiment on the contrary , he took it up as peculiarly his own , and invited any hardy person present to contradict him . 
For he and Eppie had declared that they would rather stay at the Stone pits than go to any new home . 
O father , said Eppie , what a pretty home ours is ! I think nobody could be happier than we are . 
