Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
Yes , Violet , yes , my little Peony , said their kind mother , you may go out and play in the new snow . 
At last , when they had frosted one another all over with handfuls of snow , Violet , after laughing heartily at little Peony's figure , was struck with a new idea . 
You look exactly like a snow image , Peony , said she , if your cheeks were not so red . 
Won't it be nice ? Oh yes ! cried Peony , as plainly as he could speak , for he was but a little boy . 
That will be nice ! And mamma shall see it ! Yes , answered Violet mamma shall see the new little girl . 
But she must not make her come into the warm parlor for , you know , our little snow sister will not love the warmth . 
They really seemed to imagine that there would be no difficulty whatever in creating a live little girl out of the snow . 
Then the mother resumed her work . 
What it was I forget but she was either trimming a silken bonnet for Violet , or darning a pair of stockings for little Peony's short legs . 
Again , however , and again , and yet other agains , she could not help turning her head to the window to see how the children got on with their snow image . 
Indeed , it was an exceedingly pleasant sight , those bright little souls at their task ! Moreover , it was really wonderful to observe how knowingly and skilfully they managed the matter . 
Violet assumed the chief direction , and told Peony what to do , while , with her own delicate fingers , she shaped out all the nicer parts of the snow figure . 
It seemed , in fact , not so much to be made by the children , as to grow up under their hands , while they were playing and prattling about it . 
Their mother was quite surprised at this and the longer she looked , the more and more surprised she grew . 
What remarkable children mine are ! thought she , smiling with a mother's pride and , smiling at herself , too , for being so proud of them . 
So she took up the frock , and was soon as busily at work again with her needle as the two children with their snow image . 
They kept talking to one another all the time , their tongues being quite as active as their feet and hands . 
I want it to shape our little snow sister's bosom with . 
Here is the snow for her little bosom . 
O Violet , how beau ti ful she begins to look ! Yes , said Violet , thoughtfully and quietly our snow sister does look very lovely . 
I did not quite know , Peony , that we could make such a sweet little girl as this . 
My little girl and boy deserve such playmates , if mortal children ever did ! said the mother to herself and then she smiled again at her own motherly pride . 
Now , for a few moments , there was a busy and earnest , but indistinct hum of the two children's voices , as Violet and Peony wrought together with one happy consent . 
Violet still seemed to be the guiding spirit , while Peony acted rather as a laborer , and brought her the snow from far and near . 
Bring me those light wreaths of snow that have rested on the lower branches of the pear tree . 
You can clamber on the snowdrift , Peony , and reach them easily . 
I must have them to make some ringlets for our snow sister's head ! Here they are , Violet ! answered the little boy . 
Take care you do not break them . 
She is not finished yet . 
So she was dazzled , you must understand , and could not very distinctly observe what was in the garden . 
They do everything better than other children , said she , very complacently . 
Faster and faster , therefore , went her flying fingers . 
The children , likewise , kept busily at work in the garden , and still the mother listened , whenever she could catch a word . 
She was amused to observe how their little imaginations had got mixed up with what they were doing , and carried away by it . 
They seemed positively to think that the snow child would run about and play with them . 
What a nice playmate she will be for us , all winter long ! said Violet . 
I hope papa will not be afraid of her giving us a cold ! Sha'n't you love her dearly , Peony ? Oh yes ! cried Peony . 
And I will hug her , and she shall sit down close by me and drink some of my warm milk ! Oh no , Peony ! answered Violet , with grave wisdom . 
That will not do at all . 
Warm milk will not be wholesome for our little snow sister . 
Little snow people , like her , eat nothing but icicles . 
That color , you know , comes from the golden clouds , that we see up there in the sky . 
She is almost finished now . 
But her lips must be made very red , redder than her cheeks . 
But , as this did not seem to make the lips quite red enough , Violet next proposed that the snow child should be invited to kiss Peony's scarlet cheek . 
Come , 'ittle snow sister , kiss me ! cried Peony . 
There ! she has kissed you , added Violet , and now her lips are very red . 
And she blushed a little , too ! Oh , what a cold kiss ! cried Peony . 
Just then , there came a breeze of the pure west wind , sweeping through the garden and rattling the parlor windows . 
And what do you think she saw there ? Violet and Peony , of course , her own two darling children . 
There was certainly something very singular in the aspect of the little stranger . 
It made this kind and careful mother shiver only to look at those small feet , with nothing in the world on them , except a very thin pair of white slippers . 
The white robed damsel said not a word , but danced about , just as merrily as before . 
She called Violet , and whispered to her . 
Violet my darling , what is this child's name ? asked she . 
This is our snow image ! Is it not a nice 'ittle child ? At this instant a flock of snow birds came flitting through the air . 
As was very natural , they avoided Violet and Peony . 
Hereupon , they each and all tried to alight on her two palms and ten small fingers and thumbs , crowding one another off , with an immense fluttering of their tiny wings . 
One dear little bird nestled tenderly in her bosom another put its bill to her lips . 
They were as joyous , all the while , and seemed as much in their element , as you may have seen them when sporting with a snow storm . 
Violet , said her mother , greatly perplexed , tell me the truth , without any jest . 
It is our little snow image , which Peony and I have been making . 
Peony will tell you so , as well as I. Yes , mamma , asseverated Peony , with much gravity in his crimson little phiz this is 'ittle snow child . 
He soon perceived the little white stranger sporting to and fro in the garden , like a dancing snow wreath , and the flock of snow birds fluttering about her head . 
Pray , what little girl may that be ? inquired this very sensible man . 
Some neighbor's child , I suppose . 
As she said this , the mother glanced her eyes toward the spot where the children's snow image had been made . 
What is strange , dear mother ? asked Violet . 
Dear father , do not you see how it is ? This is our snow image , which Peony and I have made , because we wanted another playmate . 
Did not we , Peony ? Yes , papa , said crimson Peony . 
This be our 'ittle snow sister . 
Do not tell me of making live figures out of snow . 
Come , wife this little stranger must not stay out in the bleak air a moment longer . 
We will bring her into the parlor and you shall give her a supper of warm bread and milk , and make her as comfortable as you can . 
Meanwhile , I will inquire among the neighbors or , if necessary , send the city crier about the streets , to give notice of a lost child . 
So saying , this honest and very kind hearted man was going toward the little white damsel , with the best intentions in the world . 
But Violet and Peony , each seizing their father by the hand , earnestly besought him not to make her come in . 
Run into the house , this moment ! It is too late to play any longer , now . 
As he approached , the snow birds took to flight . 
The wife thought it strange that good Mr. Lindsey should see nothing remarkable in the snow child's appearance . 
We will put a nice warm pair of worsted stockings on your frozen little feet , and you shall have a good thick shawl to wrap yourself in . 
Your poor white nose , I am afraid , is actually frost bitten . 
But we will make it all right . 
Not bring her in ! exclaimed the kind hearted man . 
She hardly knew whether it was a dream or no but she could not help fancying that she saw the delicate print of Violet's fingers on the child's neck . 
Snow ! repeated good Mr. Lindsey , drawing the reluctant guest over his hospitable threshold . 
No wonder she looks like snow . 
A warm , sultry smell was diffused throughout the room . 
A thermometer on the wall farthest from the stove stood at eighty degrees . 
The parlor was hung with red curtains , and covered with a red carpet , and looked just as warm as it felt . 
Now she will be comfortable ! cried Mr. Lindsey , rubbing his hands and looking about him , with the pleasantest smile you ever saw . 
Make yourself at home , my child . 
Sad , sad and drooping , looked the little white maiden , as she stood on the hearth rug , with the hot blast of the stove striking through her like a pestilence . 
The bleak wind rattled the window panes , as if it were summoning her to come forth . 
But there stood the snow child , drooping , before the hot stove ! But the common sensible man saw nothing amiss . 
You , Violet and Peony , amuse your little friend . 
She is out of spirits , you see , at finding herself in a strange place . 
For my part , I will go around among the neighbors , and find out where she belongs . 
Husband ! husband ! cried his wife , showing her horror stricken face through the window panes . 
There is no need of going for the child's parents ! We told you so , father ! screamed Violet and Peony , as he re entered the parlor . 
And there you see all that is left of it ! added she , pointing to a pool of water in front of the stove . 
But , after all , there is no teaching anything to wise men of good Mr. Lindsey's stamp . 
They know everything , oh , to be sure ! everything that has been , and everything that is , and everything that , by any future possibility , can be . 
And , should some phenomenon of nature or providence transcend their system , they will not recognize it , even if it come to pass under their very noses . 
They had but to lift their eyes , and there it was plainly to be seen , though miles away , with the sunshine brightening all its features . 
And what was the Great Stone Face ? Embosomed amongst a family of lofty mountains , there was a valley so spacious that it contained many thousand inhabitants . 
Some of these good people dwelt in log huts , with the black forest all around them , on the steep and difficult hill sides . 
Others had their homes in comfortable farm houses , and cultivated the rich soil on the gentle slopes or level surfaces of the valley . 
The inhabitants of this valley , in short , were numerous , and of many modes of life . 
It seemed as if an enormous giant , or a Titan , had sculptured his own likeness on the precipice . 
It was an education only to look at it . 
As we began with saying , a mother and her little boy sat at their cottage door , gazing at the Great Stone Face , and talking about it . 
The child's name was Ernest . 
Mother , said he , while the Titanic visage smiled on him , I wish that it could speak , for it looks so very kindly that its voice must needs be pleasant . 
If I were to see a man with such a face , I should love him dearly . 
If an old prophecy should come to pass , answered his mother , we may see a man , some time or other , with exactly such a face as that . 
What prophecy do you mean , dear mother ? eagerly inquired Ernest . 
Not a few old fashioned people , and young ones likewise , in the ardor of their hopes , still cherished an enduring faith in this old prophecy . 
At all events , the great man of the prophecy had not yet appeared . 
So she only said to him , Perhaps you may . 
And Ernest never forgot the story that his mother told him . 
It was always in his mind , whenever he looked upon the Great Stone Face . 
Yet Ernest had had no teacher , save only that the Great Stone Face became one to him . 
We must not take upon us to affirm that this was a mistake , although the Face may have looked no more kindly at Ernest than at all the world besides . 
But the secret was that the boy's tender and confiding simplicity discerned what other people could not see and thus the love , which was meant for all , became his peculiar portion . 
His name but I could never learn whether it was his real one , or a nickname that had grown out of his habits and success in life was Gathergold . 
All the countries of the globe appeared to join hands for the mere purpose of adding heap after heap to the mountainous accumulation of this one man's wealth . 
The ocean , not to be behindhand with the earth , yielded up her mighty whales , that Mr. Gathergold might sell their oil , and make a profit of it . 
Be the original commodity what it might , it was gold within his grasp . 
With this purpose in view , he sent a skilful architect to build him such a palace as should be fit for a man of his vast wealth to live in . 
Here he comes ! cried a group of people who were assembled to witness the arrival . 
Here comes the great Mr. Gathergold ! A carriage , drawn by four horses , dashed round the turn of the road . 
Within it , thrust partly out of the window , appeared the physiognomy of the old man , with a skin as yellow as if his own Midas hand had transmuted it . 
He had a low forehead , small , sharp eyes , puckered about with innumerable wrinkles , and very thin lips , which he made still thinner by pressing them forcibly together . 
The very image of the Great Stone Face ! shouted the people . 
He had grown to be a young man now . 
They knew not that thence would come a better wisdom than could be learned from books , and a better life than could be moulded on the defaced example of other human lives . 
So the people ceased to honor him during his lifetime , and quietly consigned him to forgetfulness after his decease . 
Thus , Mr. Gathergold being discredited and thrown into the shade , the man of prophecy was yet to come . 
Whatever he may be called in history , he was known in camps and on the battle field under the nickname of Old Blood and Thunder . 
An aid de camp of Old Blood and Thunder , travelling through the valley , was said to have been struck with the resemblance . 
As he approached , the loud voice of the Rev . 
Battleblast was heard , beseeching a blessing on the good things set before them , and on the distinguished friend of peace in whose honor they were assembled . 
Meantime , however , he could overhear the remarks of various individuals , who were comparing the features of the hero with the face on the distant mountain side . 
'Tis the same face , to a hair ! cried one man , cutting a caper for joy . 
Wonderfully like , that's a fact ! responded another . 
Like ! why , I call it Old Blood and Thunder himself , in a monstrous looking glass ! cried a third . 
And why not ? He's the greatest man of this or any other age , beyond a doubt . 
The general ! the general ! was now the cry . 
Hush ! silence ! Old Blood and Thunder's going to make a speech . 
Even so for , the cloth being removed , the general's health had been drunk , amid shouts of applause , and he now stood upon his feet to thank the company . 
This is not the man of prophecy , sighed Ernest to himself , as he made his way out of the throng . 
As he looked , Ernest could hardly believe but that a smile beamed over the whole visage , with a radiance still brightening , although without motion of the lips . 
It was probably the effect of the western sunshine , melting through the thinly diffused vapors that had swept between him and the object that he gazed at . 
But as it always did the aspect of his marvellous friend made Ernest as hopeful as if he had never hoped in vain . 
Fear not , Ernest , said his heart , even as if the Great Face were whispering him , fear not , Ernest he will come . 
More years sped swiftly and tranquilly away . 
Ernest still dwelt in his native valley , and was now a man of middle age . 
By imperceptible degrees , he had become known among the people . 
Now , as heretofore , he labored for his bread , and was the same simple hearted man that he had always been . 
It was visible in the calm and well considered beneficence of his daily life , the quiet stream of which had made a wide green margin all along its course . 
Not a day passed by , that the world was not the better because this man , humble as he was , had lived . 
He never stepped aside from his own path , yet would always reach a blessing to his neighbor . 
Almost involuntarily too , he had become a preacher . 
He uttered truths that wrought upon and moulded the lives of those who heard him . 
Instead of the rich man's wealth and the warrior's sword , he had but a tongue , and it was mightier than both together . 
His tongue , indeed , was a magic instrument sometimes it rumbled like the thunder sometimes it warbled like the sweetest music . 
It was the blast of war , the song of peace and it seemed to have a heart in it , when there was no such matter . 
While his friends were doing their best to make him President , Old Stony Phiz , as he was called , set out on a visit to the valley where he was born . 
Though more than once disappointed , as we have seen , he had such a hopeful and confiding nature , that he was always ready to believe in whatever seemed beautiful and good . 
He kept his heart continually open , and thus was sure to catch the blessing from on high when it should come . 
So now again , as buoyantly as ever , he went forth to behold the likeness of the Great Stone Face . 
If the pictures were to be trusted , the mutual resemblance , it must be confessed , was marvellous . 
Here he is , now ! cried those who stood near Ernest . 
Something had been originally left out , or had departed . 
Still , Ernest's neighbor was thrusting his elbow into his side , and pressing him for an answer . 
Confess ! confess ! Is not he the very picture of your Old Man of the Mountain ? No ! said Ernest bluntly , I see little or no likeness . 
Then so much the worse for the Great Stone Face ! answered his neighbor and again he set up a shout for Old Stony Phiz . 
Lo , here I am , Ernest ! the benign lips seemed to say . 
I have waited longer than thou , and am not yet weary . 
Fear not the man will come . 
The years hurried onward , treading in their haste on one another's heels . 
And now they began to bring white hairs , and scatter them over the head of Ernest they made reverend wrinkles across his forehead , and furrows in his cheeks . 
He was an aged man . 
And Ernest had ceased to be obscure . 
While they talked together , his face would kindle , unawares , and shine upon them , as with a mild evening light . 
While Ernest had been growing up and growing old , a bountiful Providence had granted a new poet to this earth . 
Often , however , did the mountains which had been familiar to him in his childhood lift their snowy peaks into the clear atmosphere of his poetry . 
Neither was the Great Stone Face forgotten , for the poet had celebrated it in an ode , which was grand enough to have been uttered by its own majestic lips . 
This man of genius , we may say , had come down from heaven with wonderful endowments . 
If he sang of a mountain , the eyes of all mankind beheld a mightier grandeur reposing on its breast , or soaring to its summit , than had before been seen there . 
If his theme were a lovely lake , a celestial smile had now been thrown over it , to gleam forever on its surface . 
If it were the vast old sea , even the deep immensity of its dread bosom seemed to swell the higher , as if moved by the emotions of the song . 
Thus the world assumed another and a better aspect from the hour that the poet blessed it with his happy eyes . 
The Creator had bestowed him , as the last best touch to his own handiwork . 
Creation was not finished till the poet came to interpret , and so complete it . 
The effect was no less high and beautiful , when his human brethren were the subject of his verse . 
He showed the golden links of the great chain that intertwined them with an angelic kindred he brought out the hidden traits of a celestial birth that made them worthy of such kin . 
As respects all things else , the poet's ideal was the truest truth . 
The songs of this poet found their way to Ernest . 
And now as he read stanzas that caused the soul to thrill within him , he lifted his eyes to the vast countenance beaming on him so benignantly . 
O majestic friend , he murmured , addressing the Great Stone Face , is not this man worthy to resemble thee ? The Face seemed to smile , but answered not a word . 
One summer morning , therefore , he took passage by the railroad , and , in the decline of the afternoon , alighted from the cars at no great distance from Ernest's cottage . 
Good evening , said the poet . 
The poet sat down on the bench beside him , and he and Ernest talked together . 
The sympathies of these two men instructed them with a profounder sense than either could have attained alone . 
Their minds accorded into one strain , and made delightful music which neither of them could have claimed as all his own , nor distinguished his own share from the other's . 
As Ernest listened to the poet , he imagined that the Great Stone Face was bending forward to listen too . 
He gazed earnestly into the poet's glowing eyes . 
Who are you , my strangely gifted guest ? he said . 
The poet laid his finger on the volume that Ernest had been reading . 
You have read these poems , said he . 
You know me , then , for I wrote them . 
Again , and still more earnestly than before , Ernest examined the poet's features then turned towards the Great Stone Face then back , with an uncertain aspect , to his guest . 
But his countenance fell he shook his head , and sighed . 
Wherefore are you sad ? inquired the poet . 
Because , replied Ernest , all through life I have awaited the fulfilment of a prophecy and , when I read these poems , I hoped that it might be fulfilled in you . 
You hoped , answered the poet , faintly smiling , to find in me the likeness of the Great Stone Face . 
And you are disappointed , as formerly with Mr. Gathergold , and Old Blood and Thunder , and Old Stony Phiz . 
Yes , Ernest , it is my doom . 
You must add my name to the illustrious three , and record another failure of your hopes . 
For in shame and sadness do I speak it , Ernest I am not worthy to be typified by yonder benign and majestic image . 
And why ? asked Ernest . 
He pointed to the volume . 
Are not those thoughts divine ? They have a strain of the Divinity , replied the poet . 
You can hear in them the far off echo of a heavenly song . 
But my life , dear Ernest , has not corresponded with my thought . 
I have had grand dreams , but they have been only dreams , because I have lived and that , too , by my own choice among poor and mean realities . 
So , likewise , were those of Ernest . 
At the hour of sunset , as had long been his frequent custom , Ernest was to discourse to an assemblage of the neighboring inhabitants in the open air . 
He and the poet , arm in arm , still talking together as they went along , proceeded to the spot . 
Into this natural pulpit Ernest ascended , and threw a look of familiar kindness around upon his audience . 
In another direction was seen the Great Stone Face , with the same cheer , combined with the same solemnity , in its benignant aspect . 
Ernest began to speak , giving to the people of what was in his heart and mind . 
His words had power , because they accorded with his thoughts and his thoughts had reality and depth , because they harmonized with the life which he had always lived . 
It was not mere breath that this preacher uttered they were the words of life , because a life of good deeds and holy love was melted into them . 
Pearls , pure and rich , had been dissolved into this precious draught . 
The poet , as he listened , felt that the being and character of Ernest were a nobler strain of poetry than he had ever written . 
Its look of grand beneficence seemed to embrace the world . 
Father , what is that ? asked the little boy , leaving his play , and pressing betwixt his father's knees . 
So here he is , shaking his jolly sides at the foot of Graylock . 
But , father , said the child , more sensitive than the obtuse , middle aged clown , he does not laugh like a man that is glad . 
So the noise frightens me ! Don't be a fool , child ! cried his father , gruffly . 
You will never make a man , I do believe there is too much of your mother in you . 
I have known the rustling of a leaf startle you . 
Hark ! Here comes the merry fellow now . 
You shall see that there is no harm in him . 
Many years , as we have seen , had now elapsed , since that portentous night when the IDEA was first developed . 
There are many such lime kilns in that tract of country , for the purpose of burning the white marble which composes a large part of the substance of the hills . 
The man who now watched the fire was of a different order , and troubled himself with no thoughts save the very few that were requisite to his business . 
Halloo ! who is it ? cried the lime burner , vexed at his son's timidity , yet half infected by it . 
Yet I neither claim nor desire a kinder one , even at my own fireside . 
Drunk ! or crazy ! muttered Bartram to himself . 
I shall have trouble with the fellow . 
The sooner I drive him away , the better . 
Your task draws to an end , I see , said he . 
This marble has already been burning three days . 
A few hours more will convert the stone to lime . 
Why , who are you ? exclaimed the lime burner . 
You seem as well acquainted with my business as I am myself . 
And well I may be , said the stranger for I followed the same craft many a long year , and here , too , on this very spot . 
But you are a newcomer in these parts . 
Did you never hear of Ethan Brand ? The man that went in search of the Unpardonable Sin ? asked Bartram , with a laugh . 
The same , answered the stranger . 
He has found what he sought , and therefore he comes back again . 
What ! then you are Ethan Brand himself ? cried the lime burner , in amazement . 
I am a new comer here , as you say , and they call it eighteen years since you left the foot of Graylock . 
But , I can tell you , the good folks still talk about Ethan Brand , in the village yonder , and what a strange errand took him away from his lime kiln . 
Well , and so you have found the Unpardonable Sin ? Even so ! said the stranger , calmly . 
If the question is a fair one , proceeded Bartram , where might it be ? Ethan Brand laid his finger on his own heart . 
It was the same slow , heavy laugh , that had almost appalled the lime burner when it heralded the wayfarer's approach . 
The solitary mountain side was made dismal by it . 
Laughter , when out of place , mistimed , or bursting forth from a disordered state of feeling , may be the most terrible modulation of the human voice . 
Poets have imagined no utterance of fiends or hobgoblins so fearfully appropriate as a laugh . 
He sat on a log of wood , looking steadfastly at the iron door of the kiln . 
They were all of one family they went to and fro between his breast and Ethan Brand's , and carried dark greetings from one to the other . 
Ethan Brand , it was said , had conversed with Satan himself in the lurid blaze of this very kiln . 
The legend had been matter of mirth heretofore , but looked grisly now . 
While the lime burner was struggling with the horror of these thoughts , Ethan Brand rose from the log , and flung open the door of the kiln . 
The action was in such accordance with the idea in Bartram's mind , that he almost expected to see the Evil One issue forth , red hot , from the raging furnace . 
Hold ! hold ! cried he , with a tremulous attempt to laugh for he was ashamed of his fears , although they overmastered him . 
It is with such half way sinners as you that he busies himself . 
Fear not , because I open the door . 
I do but act by old custom , and am going to trim your fire , like a lime burner , as I was once . 
Ethan Brand , however , drew quietly back , and closed the door of the kiln . 
I have looked , said he , into many a human heart that was seven times hotter with sinful passions than yonder furnace is with fire . 
But I found not there what I sought . 
No , not the Unpardonable Sin ! What is the Unpardonable Sin ? asked the lime burner and then he shrank farther from his companion , trembling lest his question should be answered . 
It is a sin that grew within my own breast , replied Ethan Brand , standing erect with a pride that distinguishes all enthusiasts of his stamp . 
Unshrinkingly I accept the retribution ! The man's head is turned , muttered the lime burner to himself . 
He may be a sinner like the rest of us , nothing more likely , but , I'll be sworn , he is a madman too . 
Laughing boisterously , and mingling all their voices together in unceremonious talk , they now burst into the moonshine and narrow streaks of firelight that illuminated the open space before the lime kiln . 
Bartram set the door ajar again , flooding the spot with light , that the whole company might get a fair view of Ethan Brand , and he of them . 
It was the stage agent . 
In other words , Giles was now a soap boiler , in a small way . 
Among the throng , too , came another personage , who , with certain points of similarity to Lawyer Giles , had many more of difference . 
The doctor had an everlasting pipe in his mouth , and , as somebody said , in allusion to his habit of swearing , it was always alight with hell fire . 
It made him doubt and , strange to say , it was a painful doubt whether he had indeed found the Unpardonable Sin , and found it within himself . 
The whole question on which he had exhausted life , and more than life , looked like a delusion . 
Leave me , he said bitterly , ye brute beasts , that have made yourselves so , shrivelling up your souls with fiery liquors ! I have done with you . 
Years and years ago , I groped into your hearts and found nothing there for my purpose . 
You have no more found the Unpardonable Sin than yonder boy Joe has . 
For some years past this aged person had been wandering about among the hills , inquiring of all travellers whom he met for his daughter . 
The white haired father now approached Ethan Brand , and gazed unsteadily into his face . 
They tell me you have been all over the earth , said he , wringing his hands with earnestness . 
You must have seen my daughter , for she makes a grand figure in the world , and everybody goes to see her . 
Did she send any word to her old father , or say when she was coming back ? Ethan Brand's eye quailed beneath the old man's . 
Yes , he murmured , turning away from the hoary wanderer , it is no delusion . 
As it happened , there was other amusement at hand . 
The pictures were worn out , moreover , tattered , full of cracks and wrinkles , dingy with tobacco smoke , and otherwise in a most pitiable condition . 
When , with much merriment at its abominable deficiency of merit , the exhibition was concluded , the German bade little Joe put his head into the box . 
You make the little man to be afraid , Captain , said the German Jew , turning up the dark and strong outline of his visage from his stooping posture . 
What had he seen ? Nothing , apparently for a curious youth , who had peeped in almost at the same moment , beheld only a vacant space of canvas . 
I remember you now , muttered Ethan Brand to the showman . 
The next moment he was as mild , quiet , sensible , and respectable in his deportment , as when he first scraped acquaintance with the company . 
Save for these three human beings , the open space on the hill side was a solitude , set in a vast gloom of forest . 
And it seemed to little Joe a timorous and imaginative child that the silent forest was holding its breath until some fearful thing should happen . 
For myself , I cannot sleep , said he . 
I have matters that it concerns me to meditate upon . 
I will watch the fire , as I used to do in the old time . 
And call the Devil out of the furnace to keep you company , I suppose , muttered Bartram , who had been making intimate acquaintance with the black bottle above mentioned . 
But watch , if you like , and call as many devils as you like ! For my part , I shall be all the better for a snooze . 
When they had gone , Ethan Brand sat listening to the crackling of the kindled wood , and looking at the little spirts of fire that issued through the chinks of the door . 
Then ensued that vast intellectual development , which , in its progress , disturbed the counterpoise between his mind and heart . 
He had lost his hold of the magnetic chain of humanity . 
Thus Ethan Brand became a fiend . 
He began to be so from the moment that his moral nature had ceased to keep the pace of improvement with his intellect . 
Ethan Brand stood erect , and raised his arms on high . 
Up , boy , up ! cried the lime burner , staring about him . 
Thank Heaven , the night is gone , at last and rather than pass such another , I would watch my lime kiln , wide awake , for a twelvemonth . 
The village , completely shut in by hills , which swelled away gently about it , looked as if it had rested peacefully in the hollow of the great hand of Providence . 
Every dwelling was distinctly visible the little spires of the two churches pointed upwards , and caught a fore glimmering of brightness from the sun gilt skies upon their gilded weather cocks . 
The tavern was astir , and the figure of the old , smoke dried stage agent , cigar in mouth , was seen beneath the stoop . 
Old Graylock was glorified with a golden cloud upon his head . 
Earth was so mingled with sky that it was a day dream to look at it . 
The great hills played a concert among themselves , each contributing a strain of airy sweetness . 
Little Joe's face brightened at once . 
After a moment's pause , he called to his son . 
Come up here , Joe ! said he . 
So little Joe ran up the hillock , and stood by his father's side . 
The marble was all burnt into perfect , snow white lime . 
Within the ribs strange to say was the shape of a human heart . 
Was the fellow's heart made of marble ? cried Bartram , in some perplexity at this phenomenon . 
At any rate , it is burnt into what looks like special good lime and , taking all the bones together , my kiln is half a bushel the richer for him . 
So saying , the rude lime burner lifted his pole , and , letting it fall upon the skeleton , the relics of Ethan Brand were crumbled into fragments . 
THE CANTERBURY PILGRIMS The summer moon , which shines in so many a tale , was beaming over a broad extent of uneven country . 
The work of neat hands and considerate art was visible about this blessed fountain . 
Though the basin had not room for another drop , and the continual gush of water made a tremor on the surface , there was a secret charm that forbade it to overflow . 
While the moon was hanging almost perpendicularly over this spot , two figures appeared on the summit of the hill , and came with noiseless footsteps down towards the spring . 
They were then in the first freshness of youth nor is there a wrinkle now on either of their brows , and yet they wore a strange , old fashioned garb . 
Nay , Josiah , said she , giving him a timid push with her maiden hand , thee must sit farther off , on that other stone , with the spring between us . 
What would the sisters say , if thee were to sit so close to me ? But we are of the world's people now , Miriam , answered Josiah . 
While their attention was thus occupied , a party of travellers , who had come wearily up the long ascent , made a halt to refresh themselves at the spring . 
There were three men , a woman , and a little girl and boy . 
Good evening to you , young folks , was the salutation of the travellers and Good evening , friends , replied the youth and damsel . 
Is that white building the Shaker meeting house ? asked one of the strangers . 
And are those the red roofs of the Shaker village ? Friend , it is the Shaker village , answered Josiah , after some hesitation . 
It is true , friends , replied the young man , summoning up his courage . 
Miriam and I have a gift to love each other , and we are going among the world's people , to live after their fashion . 
And ye know that we do not transgress the law of the land and neither ye , nor the elders themselves , have a right to hinder us . 
Yet you think it expedient to depart without leave taking , remarked one of the travellers . 
Well , said the stranger , we will neither use force to bring you back to the village , nor will we betray you to the elders . 
What say you ? added he , turning to his companions . 
We have travelled thus far without becoming known to each other . 
The same person who had hitherto been the chief spokesman now stood up , waving his hat in his hand , and suffered the moonlight to fall full upon his front . 
In me , said he , with a certain majesty of utterance , in me , you behold a poet . 
However , he had an intelligent eye , and , on the whole , a marked countenance . 
A poet ! repeated the young Shaker , a little puzzled how to understand such a designation , seldom heard in the utilitarian community where he had spent his life . 
Oh , ay , Miriam , he means a varse maker , thee must know . 
True , I am a verse maker , he resumed , but my verse is no more than the material body into which I breathe the celestial soul of thought . 
Happy in your ignorance ! replied the poet , with an air of sublime superiority . 
So we need not fear thy disappointments . 
But , Miriam , he added , with real concern , thee knowest that the elders admit nobody that has not a gift to be useful . 
Our hymns are very rough , and perhaps they may trust him to smooth them . 
Without noticing this hint of professional employment , the poet turned away , and gave himself up to a sort of vague reverie , which he called thought . 
In its crystal bosom , too , beholding all heaven reflected there , he found an emblem of a pure and tranquil breast . 
He was a small man , of quick and unquiet gestures , about fifty years old , with a narrow forehead , all wrinkled and drawn together . 
You may say so now , said the ruined merchant , bitterly , for my name would not be worth the paper I should write it on . 
Not heard of my failure ! exclaimed the merchant , considerably piqued . 
Why , it was spoken of on 'Change in London , and from Boston to New Orleans men trembled in their shoes . 
Turn back with me , young man for though you will never meet with my good luck , you can hardly escape my bad . 
I will not turn back for this , replied Josiah . 
But Miriam and I can earn our daily bread among the world's people as well as in the Shaker village . 
And do we want anything more , Miriam ? Nothing more , Josiah , said the girl , quietly . 
Yea , Miriam , and daily bread for some other little mouths , if God send them , observed the simple Shaker lad . 
Miriam did not reply , but looked down into the spring , where she encountered the image of her own pretty face , blushing within the prim little bonnet . 
The third pilgrim now took up the conversation . 
Well , now , youngster , he began , these folks have had their say , so I'll take my turn . 
And didn't He help thee , friend ? demanded Josiah , with some eagerness . 
No , said the yeoman , sullenly for then you would not have seen me here . 
This simple story had a strong effect on the young fugitives . 
But thy wife , friend ? exclaimed the younger man . 
I am his wife , said she , a shade of irritability just perceptible in the sadness of her tone . 
These poor little things , asleep on the ground , are two of our children . 
We had two more , but God has provided better for them than we could , by taking them to Himself . 
And what would thee advise Josiah and me to do ? asked Miriam , this being the first question which she had put to either of the strangers . 
Though my husband told you some of our troubles , he didn't mention the greatest , and that which makes all the rest so hard to bear . 
It has been so with us and yet my husband and I were true lovers once , if ever two young folks were . 
But the crisis passed and never came again . 
We are tired and hungry ! cried they . 
Is it far to the Shaker village ? The Shaker youth and maiden looked mournfully into each other's eyes . 
They had but stepped across the threshold of their homes , when lo ! the dark array of cares and sorrows that rose up to warn them back . 
But after one instant's hesitation , they opened their arms , and sealed their resolve with as pure and fond an embrace as ever youthful love had hallowed . 
We will not go back , said they . 
The world never can be dark to us , for we will always love one another . 
Then the Canterbury pilgrims went up the hill , while the poet chanted a drear and desperate stanza of the Farewell to his Harp , fitting music for that melancholy band . 
The lovers drank at the Shaker spring , and then , with chastened hopes , but more confiding affections , went on to mingle in an untried life . 
My first business , after supper , was to visit him at the office of his distinguished instructor . 
There was no snow , either on the ground or the roofs of the houses . 
One of these I capsized , but was gone on the wings of the wind before he could even vociferate an oath . 
A tall , decanter shaped bottle stood on the table , between two tumblers , and beside a pile of blotted manuscripts , altogether dissimilar to any law documents recognized in our courts . 
I do believe , said he , soberly , or , at least , I could believe , if I chose , that there is a devil in this pile of blotted papers . 
Just so my peace is gone , and all by these accursed manuscripts . 
Have you felt nothing of the same influence ? Nothing , replied I , unless the spell be hid in a desire to turn novelist , after reading your delightful tales . 
Novelist ! exclaimed Oberon , half seriously . 
Burn your tales ! repeated I , startled at the desperation of the idea . 
Even so , said the author , despondingly . 
You cannot conceive what an effect the composition of these tales has had on me . 
I have become ambitious of a bubble , and careless of solid reputation . 
I am surrounding myself with shadows , which bewilder me , by aping the realities of life . 
The tales have done all this . 
When they are ashes , perhaps I shall be as I was before they had existence . 
Moreover , the sacrifice is less than you may suppose , since nobody will publish them . 
That does make a difference , indeed , said I. They have been offered , by letter , continued Oberon , reddening with vexation , to some seventeen booksellers . 
It would make you stare to read their answers and read them you should , only that I burnt them as fast as they arrived . 
One man publishes nothing but school books another has five novels already under examination . 
What a voluminous mass the unpublished literature of America must be ! cried I. Oh , the Alexandrian manuscripts were nothing to it ! said my friend . 
Well , another gentleman is just giving up business , on purpose , I verily believe , to escape publishing my book . 
The villain ! exclaimed I. A fact ! said Oberon . 
The paltry rogues ! cried I. Will they live by literature , and yet risk nothing for its sake ? But , after all , you might publish on your own account . 
And so I might , replied Oberon . 
But the devil of the business is this . 
Before proceeding to execution , we broached the bottle of champagne , which Oberon had provided for keeping up his spirits in this doleful business . 
We swallowed each a tumblerful , in sparkling commotion it went bubbling down our throats , and brightened my eyes at once , but left my friend sad and heavy as before . 
He drew the tales towards him , with a mixture of natural affection and natural disgust , like a father taking a deformed infant into his arms . 
Pooh ! Pish ! Pshaw ! exclaimed he , holding them at arm's length . 
It was Gray's idea of heaven , to lounge on a sofa and read new novels . 
I lack that one characteristic of my tribe , the only desirable one , observed Oberon . 
There may be happiness in a fever fit , replied the author . 
I find no traces of the golden pen with which I wrote in characters of fire . 
My treasure of fairy coin is changed to worthless dross . 
My picture , painted in what seemed the loveliest hues , presents nothing but a faded and indistinguishable surface . 
I have been eloquent and poetical and humorous in a dream , and behold ! it is all nonsense , now that I am awake . 
The heady liquor combined with his agitation to throw him into a species of rage . 
He laid violent hands on the tales . 
In one instant more , their faults and beauties would alike have vanished in a glowing purgatory . 
Surely , you do not mean to burn them ! I exclaimed . 
Let me alone ! cried Oberon , his eyes flashing fire . 
They blaze , said he , as if I had steeped them in the intensest spirit of genius . 
There I see my lovers clasped in each other's arms . 
How pure the flame that bursts from their glowing hearts ! And yonder the features of a villain writhing in the fire that shall torment him to eternity . 
My holy men , my pious and angelic women , stand like martyrs amid the flames , their mild eyes lifted heavenward . 
Ring out the bells ! A city is on fire . 
You saw him ? You must have seen him ! cried Oberon . 
How he glared at me and laughed , in that last sheet of flame , with just the features that I imagined for him ! Well ! The tales are gone . 
The destroyer knelt down to look at them . 
What is more potent than fire ! said he , in his gloomiest tone . 
Even thought , invisible and incorporeal as it is , cannot escape it . 
There , too , I sacrificed the unborn children of my mind . 
All that I had accomplished all that I planned for future years has perished by one common ruin , and left only this heap of embers ! The deed has been my fate . 
Just as they disappeared , there was a loud and solitary cry in the street below us . 
Fire ! Fire ! Other voices caught up that terrible word , and it speedily became the shout of a multitude . 
Oberon started to his feet , in fresh excitement . 
A fire on such a night ! cried he . 
The wind blows a gale , and wherever it whirls the flames , the roofs will flash up like gunpowder . 
Every pump is frozen up , and boiling water would turn to ice the moment it was flung from the engine . 
We heard one engine thundering round a corner , and another rattling from a distance over the pavements . 
My heart leaps and trembles , but not with fear . 
And that other sound , too , deep and awful as a mighty organ , the roar and thunder of the multitude on the pavement below ! Come ! We are losing time . 
At once , the truth flashed upon my friend . 
His frenzy took the hue of joy , and , with a wild gesture of exultation , he leaped almost to the ceiling of the chamber . 
My tales ! cried Oberon . 
The inferior members of the court party , in times of high political excitement , led scarcely a more desirable life . 
These remarks may serve as a preface to the following adventures , which chanced upon a summer night , not far from a hundred years ago . 
He was a youth of barely eighteen years , evidently country bred , and now , as it should seem , upon his first visit to town . 
Brown , curly hair , well shaped features , and bright , cheerful eyes were nature's gifts , and worth all that art could have done for his adornment . 
It would have been wise to inquire my way of the ferryman , and doubtless he would have gone with me , and earned a shilling from the Major for his pains . 
But the next man I meet will do as well . 
He resumed his walk , and was glad to perceive that the street now became wider , and the houses more respectable in their appearance . 
He soon discerned a figure moving on moderately in advance , and hastened his steps to overtake it . 
Good evening to you , honored sir , said he , making a low bow , and still retaining his hold of the skirt . 
I pray you tell me whereabouts is the dwelling of my kinsman , Major Molineux . 
The citizen , in the mean time , turned a long favored countenance upon Robin , and answered him in a tone of excessive anger and annoyance . 
His two sepulchral hems , however , broke into the very centre of his rebuke , with most singular effect , like a thought of the cold grave obtruding among wrathful passions . 
Let go my garment , fellow ! I tell you , I know not the man you speak of . 
He was at first considerably surprised by the result of his question , but , being a shrewd youth , soon thought himself able to account for the mystery . 
This is some country representative , was his conclusion , who has never seen the inside of my kinsman's door , and lacks the breeding to answer a stranger civilly . 
The man is old , or verily I might be tempted to turn back and smite him on the nose . 
Ah , Robin , Robin ! even the barber's boys laugh at you for choosing such a guide ! You will be wiser in time , friend Robin . 
He now became entangled in a succession of crooked and narrow streets , which crossed each other , and meandered at no great distance from the water side . 
But the streets were empty , the shops were closed , and lights were visible only in the second stories of a few dwelling houses . 
The casement of one of the lower windows was thrown back , and a very thin curtain permitted Robin to distinguish a party at supper , round a well furnished table . 
Oh , that a parchment three penny might give me a right to sit down at yonder table ! said Robin , with a sigh . 
But the Major will make me welcome to the best of his victuals so I will even step boldly in , and inquire my way to his dwelling . 
He entered the tavern , and was guided by the murmur of voices and the fumes of tobacco to the public room . 
It was a long and low apartment , with oaken walls , grown dark in the continual smoke , and a floor which was thickly sanded , but of no immaculate purity . 
Three or four little groups were draining as many bowls of punch , which the West India trade had long since made a familiar drink in the colony . 
Others , who had the appearance of men who lived by regular and laborious handicraft , preferred the insulated bliss of an unshared potation , and became more taciturn under its influence . 
His features were separately striking almost to grotesqueness , and the whole face left a deep impression on the memory . 
From the country , I presume , sir ? said he , with a profound bow . 
Beg leave to congratulate you on your arrival , and trust you intend a long stay with us . 
Fine town here , sir , beautiful buildings , and much that may interest a stranger . 
Robin replied to the courteous innkeeper , with such an assumption of confidence as befitted the Major's relative . 
My present business , continued he , speaking with lofty confidence , is merely to inquire my way to the dwelling of my kinsman , Major Molineux . 
There was a sudden and general movement in the room , which Robin interpreted as expressing the eagerness of each individual to become his guide . 
But the innkeeper turned his eyes to a written paper on the wall , which he read , or seemed to read , with occasional recurrences to the young man's figure . 
What have we here ? said he , breaking his speech into little dry fragments . 
'Left the house of the subscriber , bounden servant , Hezekiah Mudge , had on , when he went away , gray coat , leather breeches , master's third best hat . 
One pound currency reward to whosoever shall lodge him in any jail of the providence . 
In his progress , Robin encountered many gay and gallant figures . 
Embroidered garments of showy colors , enormous periwigs , gold laced hats , and silver hilted swords glided past him and dazzled his optics . 
Mercy on us ! quoth Robin , recognizing the sound . 
Turning a corner , which chanced to be close at his right hand , he hastened to pursue his researches in some other part of the town . 
My luck may be better here , said he to himself . 
All that Robin could discern was a strip of scarlet petticoat , and the occasional sparkle of an eye , as if the moonbeams were trembling on some bright thing . 
Moreover , her face was oval and pretty , her hair dark beneath the little cap , and her bright eyes possessed a sly freedom , which triumphed over those of Robin . 
Major Molineux dwells here , said this fair woman . 
Now , her voice was the sweetest Robin had heard that night , yet he could not help doubting whether that sweet voice spoke Gospel truth . 
He looked up and down the mean street , and then surveyed the house before which they stood . 
Now , truly , I am in luck , replied Robin , cunningly , and so indeed is my kinsman , the Major , in having so pretty a housekeeper . 
But I prithee trouble him to step to the door I will deliver him a message from his friends in the country , and then go back to my lodgings at the inn . 
But he is a kind hearted man , and it would be as much as my life's worth to let a kinsman of his turn away from the door . 
You are the good old gentleman's very picture , and I could swear that was his rainy weather hat . 
Also he has garments very much resembling those leather small clothes . 
But come in , I pray , for I bid you hearty welcome in his name . 
A heavy yawn preceded the appearance of a man , who , like the Moonshine of Pyramus and Thisbe , carried a lantern , needlessly aiding his sister luminary in the heavens . 
As he walked sleepily up the street , he turned his broad , dull face on Robin , and displayed a long staff , spiked at the end . 
Home , vagabond , home ! said the watchman , in accents that seemed to fall asleep as soon as they were uttered . 
Home , or we'll set you in the stocks by peep of day ! This is the second hint of the kind , thought Robin . 
I wish they would end my difficulties , by setting me there to night . 
Nevertheless , the youth felt an instinctive antipathy towards the guardian of midnight order , which at first prevented him from asking his usual question . 
But Robin , being of the household of a New England clergyman , was a good youth , as well as a shrewd one so he resisted temptation , and fled away . 
The streets lay before him , strange and desolate , and the lights were extinguished in almost every house . 
No , no , I'm not the fool you take me for , nor do you pass till I have an answer to my question . 
Watch here an hour , and Major Molineux will pass by , said he . 
Robin gazed with dismay and astonishment on the unprecedented physiognomy of the speaker . 
The effect was as if two individual devils , a fiend of fire and a fiend of darkness , had united themselves to form this infernal visage . 
The stranger grinned in Robin's face , muffled his party colored features , and was out of sight in a moment . 
Strange things we travellers see ! ejaculated Robin . 
He seated himself , however , upon the steps of the church door , resolving to wait the appointed time for his kinsman . 
And first he threw his eyes along the street . 
It was a large , square mansion , distinguished from its neighbors by a balcony , which rested on tall pillars , and by an elaborate Gothic window , communicating therewith . 
Perhaps this is the very house I have been seeking , thought Robin . 
Robin marvelled at this snore of a sleeping town , and marvelled more whenever its continuity was broken by now and then a distant shout , apparently loud where it originated . 
There the moonbeams came trembling in , and fell down upon the deserted pews , and extended along the quiet aisles . 
A fainter yet more awful radiance was hovering around the pulpit , and one solitary ray had dared to rest upon the open page of the great Bible . 
There were graves around the church , and now an uneasy thought obtruded into Robin's breast . 
He heard the old thanksgivings for daily mercies , the old supplications for their continuance to which he had so often listened in weariness , but which were now among his dear remembrances . 
Then he saw them go in at the door and when Robin would have entered also , the latch tinkled into its place , and he was excluded from his home . 
He aroused himself , and endeavored to fix his attention steadily upon the large edifice which he had surveyed before . 
A deeper sleep wrestled with and nearly overcame him , but fled at the sound of footsteps along the opposite pavement . 
Robin rubbed his eyes , discerned a man passing at the foot of the balcony , and addressed him in a loud , peevish , and lamentable cry . 
He was himself a gentleman in his prime , of open , intelligent , cheerful , and altogether prepossessing countenance . 
Perceiving a country youth , apparently homeless and without friends , he accosted him in a tone of real kindness , which had become strange to Robin's ears . 
Well , my good lad , why are you sitting here ? inquired he . 
For I have the name of being a shrewd youth , observed Robin , in this part of his story . 
I doubt not you deserve it , replied his new friend , good naturedly but pray proceed . 
Can you describe the man who told you this ? inquired the gentleman . 
Do you happen to know such a man , sir ? Not intimately , answered the stranger , but I chanced to meet him a little time previous to your stopping me . 
I believe you may trust his word , and that the Major will very shortly pass through this street . 
In the mean time , as I have a singular curiosity to witness your meeting , I will sit down here upon the steps and bear you company . 
He seated himself accordingly , and soon engaged his companion in animated discourse . 
It was but of brief continuance , however , for a noise of shouting , which had long been remotely audible , drew so much nearer that Robin inquired its cause . 
What may be the meaning of this uproar ? asked he . 
Truly , if your town be always as noisy , I shall find little sleep while I am an inhabitant . 
Why , indeed , friend Robin , there do appear to be three or four riotous fellows abroad to night , replied the gentleman . 
You must not expect all the stillness of your native woods here in our streets . 
But , dear sir , if I may trust my ears , an army of watchmen would never make head against such a multitude of rioters . 
There were at least a thousand voices went up to make that one shout . 
May not a man have several voices , Robin , as well as two complexions ? said his friend . 
Perhaps a man may but Heaven forbid that a woman should ! responded the shrewd youth , thinking of the seductive tones of the Major's housekeeper . 
The sounds of a trumpet in some neighboring street now became so evident and continual , that Robin's curiosity was strongly excited . 
In addition to the shouts , he heard frequent bursts from many instruments of discord , and a wild and confused laughter filled up the intervals . 
Robin rose from the steps , and looked wistfully towards a point whither people seemed to be hastening . 
Surely some prodigious merry making is going on , exclaimed he I have laughed very little since I left home , sir , and should be sorry to lose an opportunity . 
You forget that we must wait here for your kinsman and there is reason to believe that he will pass by , in the course of a very few moments . 
Eager voices hailed each other from house to house , all demanding the explanation , which not a soul could give . 
Half dressed men hurried towards the unknown commotion stumbling as they went over the stone steps that thrust themselves into the narrow foot walk . 
A mighty stream of people now emptied into the street , and came rolling slowly towards the church . 
Then a redder light disturbed the moonbeams , and a dense multitude of torches shone along the street , concealing , by their glare , whatever object they illuminated . 
The double faced fellow has his eye upon me , muttered Robin , with an indefinite but an uncomfortable idea that he was himself to bear a part in the pageantry . 
The leader turned himself in the saddle , and fixed his glance full upon the country youth , as the steed went slowly by . 
The rattling of wheels over the stones sometimes found its way to his ear , and confused traces of a human form appeared at intervals , and then melted into the vivid light . 
Right before Robin's eyes was an uncovered cart . 
His whole frame was agitated by a quick and continual tremor , which his pride strove to quell , even in those circumstances of overwhelming humiliation . 
They stared at each other in silence , and Robin's knees shook , and his hair bristled , with a mixture of pity and terror . 
A sharp , dry cachinnation appealed to his memory , and , standing on tiptoe in the crowd , with his white apron over his head , he beheld the courteous little innkeeper . 
He supported himself on his polished cane in a fit of convulsive merriment , which manifested itself on his solemn old features like a funny inscription on a tombstone . 
Then Robin seemed to hear the voices of the barbers , of the guests of the inn , and of all who had made sport of him that night . 
The cloud spirits peeped from their silvery islands , as the congregated mirth went roaring up the sky ! The Man in the Moon heard the far bellow . 
On they went , like fiends that throng in mockery around some dead potentate , mighty no more , but majestic still in his agony . 
On they went , in counterfeited pomp , in senseless uproar , in frenzied merriment , trampling all on an old man's heart . 
On swept the tumult , and left a silent street behind . 
Well , Robin , are you dreaming ? inquired the gentleman , laying his hand on the youth's shoulder . 
Robin started , and withdrew his arm from the stone post to which he had instinctively clung , as the living stream rolled by him . 
His cheek was somewhat pale , and his eye not quite as lively as in the earlier part of the evening . 
Will you be kind enough to show me the way to the ferry ? said he , after a moment's pause . 
You have , then , adopted a new subject of inquiry ? observed his companion , with a smile . 
Why , yes , sir , replied Robin , rather dryly . 
Thanks to you , and to my other friends , I have at last met my kinsman , and he will scarce desire to see my face again . 
I begin to grow weary of a town life , sir . 
Will you show me the way to the ferry ? No , my good friend Robin , not to night , at least , said the gentleman . 
Some few days hence , if you wish it , I will speed you on your journey . 
