Scanned by Charles Keller for Tina with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
CONTENTS I. WE ARE SEVEN II . 
A DIFFERENCE IN HEARTS IV . 
REBECCA'S POINT OF VIEW V. WISDOM'S WAYS VI . 
SUNSHINE IN A SHADY PLACE VII . 
COLOR OF ROSE IX ASHES OF ROSES X. RAINBOW BRIDGES XI . 
THE STIRRING OF THE POWERS XII . 
SEE THE PALE MARTYR XIII . 
SNOW WHITE ROSE RED XIV . 
GRAY DAYS AND GOLD XVIII . 
REBECCA REPRESENTS THE FAMILY XIX . 
A CHANGE OF HEART XXI . 
THE SKY LINE WIDENS XXII . 
CLOVER BLOSSOMS AND SUNFLOWERS XXIII . 
ALADDIN RUBS HIS LAMP XXV . 
GOOD BY , SUNNYBROOK ! XXXI . 
AUNT MIRANDA'S APOLOGY REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM WE ARE SEVEN The old stage coach was rumbling along the dusty road that runs from Maplewood to Riverboro . 
The hills were many , and the reins lay loosely in his hands as he lolled back in his seat and extended one foot and leg luxuriously over the dashboard . 
His brimmed hat of worn felt was well pulled over his eyes , and he revolved a quid of tobacco in his left cheek . 
There was one passenger in the coach , a small dark haired person in a glossy buff calico dress . 
Mr. Cobb guessed nothing of these harassing details of travel , his business being to carry people to their destinations , not , necessarily , to make them comfortable on the way . 
Indeed he had forgotten the very existence of this one unnoteworthy little passenger . 
The child might have been ten or eleven years old perhaps , but whatever the number of her summers , she had an air of being small for her age . 
I want you should take her to my sisters' in Riverboro , she said . 
Do you know Mi randy and Jane Sawyer ? They live in the brick house . 
Lord bless your soul , he knew 'em as well as if he'd made 'em ! Well , she's going there , and they're expecting her . 
Will you keep an eye on her , please ? If she can get out anywhere and get with folks , or get anybody in to keep her company , she'll do it . 
Good by , Rebecca try not to get into any mischief , and sit quiet , so you'll look neat an' nice when you get there . 
Don't be any trouble to Mr. Cobb . 
You see , she's kind of excited . 
We came on the cars from Temperance yesterday , slept all night at my cousin's , and drove from her house eight miles it is this morning . 
Good by , mother , don't worry you know it isn't as if I hadn't traveled before . 
It was leaving the farm , and putting up lunch in a basket , and a little riding and a little steam cars , and we carried our nightgowns . 
Don't tell the whole village about it , if we did , said the mother , interrupting the reminiscences of this experienced voyager . 
Mirandy'll have her hands full , I guess , she said to herself but I shouldn't wonder if it would be the making of Rebecca . 
Suddenly he heard a small voice above the rattle and rumble of the wheels and the creaking of the harness . 
Please let me speak ! she called . 
Mr. Cobb drew up the horses obediently . 
Does it cost any more to ride up there with you ? she asked . 
It's so slippery and shiny down here , and the stage is so much too big for me , that I rattle round in it till I'm 'most black and blue . 
And the windows are so small I can only see pieces of things , and I've 'most broken my neck stretching round to find out whether my trunk has fallen off the back . 
It's my mother's trunk , and she's very choice of it . 
Whereupon he helped her out , boosted her up to the front seat , and resumed his own place . 
Rebecca sat down carefully , smoothing her dress under her with painstaking precision , and putting her sunshade under its extended folds between the driver and herself . 
I hope we have a long , long ways to go ? Oh ! we've only just started on it , Mr. Cobb responded genially it's more 'n two hours . 
It's a good growing day , isn't it ? It is , certain too hot , most . 
The buff calico was faded , but scrupulously clean , and starched within an inch of its life . 
Her face was without color and sharp in outline . 
Rebecca's eyes were like faith , the substance of things hoped for , the evidence of things not seen . 
Under her delicately etched brows they glowed like two stars , their dancing lights half hidden in lustrous darkness . 
They had never been accounted for , Rebecca's eyes . 
Mr. Cobb made none of these generalizations his remark to his wife that night was simply to the effect that whenever the child looked at him she knocked him galley west . 
Miss Ross , a lady that paints , gave me the sunshade , said Rebecca , when she had exchanged looks with Mr. Cobb and learned his face by heart . 
Did you notice the pinked double ruffle and the white tip and handle ? They're ivory . 
The handle is scarred , you see . 
That's because Fanny sucked and chewed it in meeting when I wasn't looking . 
I've never felt the same to Fanny since . 
Is Fanny your sister ? She's one of them . 
How many are there of you ? Seven . 
Hannah is the oldest , I come next , then John , then Jenny , then Mark , then Fanny , then Mira . 
They're dear , but such a bother , and cost so much to feed , you see , she rippled on . 
Hannah and I haven't done anything but put babies to bed at night and take them up in the morning for years and years . 
But it's finished , that's one comfort , and we'll have a lovely time when we're all grown up and the mortgage is paid off . 
All finished ? Oh , you mean you've come away ? No , I mean they're all over and done with our family 's finished . 
Mother says so , and she always keeps her promises . 
There hasn't been any since Mira , and she's three . 
Then we drove a long ways to cousin Ann's and went to bed . 
Then we got up and drove ever so far to Maplewood , where the stage was . 
Our farm is away off from everywheres , but our school and meeting house is at Temperance , and that's only two miles . 
Sitting up here with you is most as good as climbing the meeting house steeple . 
I know a boy who's been up on our steeple . 
He said the people and cows looked like flies . 
They can't climb so high , or go so far , or stay out so late , or run so fast , or anything . 
Mr. Cobb wiped his mouth on the back of his hand and gasped . 
He had a feeling that he was being hurried from peak to peak of a mountain range without time to take a good breath in between . 
I can't seem to locate your farm , he said , though I've been to Temperance and used to live up that way . 
What's your folks' name ? Randall . 
We are all named after somebody in particular . 
We don't call him Marquis , only Mark . 
Jenny is named for a singer and Fanny for a beautiful dancer , but mother says they're both misfits , for Jenny can't carry a tune and Fanny's kind of stiff legged . 
Mother would like to call them Jane and Frances and give up their middle names , but she says it wouldn't be fair to father . 
She says we must always stand up for father , because everything was against him , and he wouldn't have died if he hadn't had such bad luck . 
I think that's all there is to tell about us , she finished seriously . 
Land o' Liberty ! I should think it was enough , ejaculated Mr. Cobb . 
These are spandy new I've got on , and they have to last six months . 
Mother always says to save my shoes . 
There don't seem to be any way of saving shoes but taking 'em off and going barefoot but I can't do that in Riverboro without shaming aunt Mirandy . 
At any rate , that's what I think I'm going to be . 
Mother thinks I'd better teach . 
Your farm ain't the old Hobbs place , is it ? No , it's just Randall's Farm . 
At least that's what mother calls it . 
I call it Sunnybrook Farm . 
I guess it don't make no difference what you call it so long as you know where it is , remarked Mr. Cobb sententiously . 
When I say Randall's Farm , do you see how it looks ? No , I can't say I do , responded Mr. Cobb uneasily . 
I s'pose there's a brook somewheres near it , he said timorously . 
Rebecca looked disappointed but not quite dis heartened . 
That's pretty good , she said encouragingly . 
You're warm but not hot there's a brook , but not a common brook . 
It has young trees and baby bushes on each side of it , and it's a shallow chattering little brook with a white sandy bottom and lots of little shiny pebbles . 
Whenever there's a bit of sunshine the brook catches it , and it's always full of sparkles the livelong day . 
Don't your stomach feel hollow ? Mine doest I was so 'fraid I'd miss the stage I couldn't eat any breakfast . 
You'd better have your lunch , then . 
I don't eat nothin' till I get to Milltown then I get a piece o' pie and cup o' coffee . 
I wish I could see Milltown . 
I suppose it's bigger and grander even than Wareham more like Paris ? Miss Ross told me about Paris she bought my pink sunshade there and my bead purse . 
You see how it opens with a snap ? I've twenty cents in it , and it's got to last three months , for stamps and paper and ink . 
Mother says aunt Mirandy won't want to buy things like those when she's feeding and clothing me and paying for my school books . 
Paris ain't no great , said Mr. Cobb disparagingly . 
It's the dullest place in the State o' Maine . 
I've druv there many a time . 
Paris is the capital of France , and you have to go to it on a boat , she said instructively . 
It's in my geography , and it says The French are a gay and polite people , fond of dancing and light wines . 
I asked the teacher what light wines were , and he thought it was something like new cider , or maybe ginger pop . 
I can see Paris as plain as day by just shutting my eyes . 
The beautiful ladies are always gayly dancing around with pink sunshades and bead purses , and the grand gentlemen are politely dancing and drinking ginger pop . 
But you can see Milltown most every day with your eyes wide open , Rebecca said wistfully . 
Milltown ain't no great , neither , replied Mr. Cobb , with the air of having visited all the cities of the earth and found them as naught . 
Now you watch me heave this newspaper right onto Mis' Brown's doorstep . 
Piff ! and the packet landed exactly as it was intended , on the corn husk mat in front of the screen door . 
Oh , how splendid that was ! cried Rebecca with enthusiasm . 
Just like the knife thrower Mark saw at the circus . 
If your aunt Mirandy'll let you , I'll take you down to Milltown some day this summer when the stage ain't full . 
A thrill of delicious excitement ran through Rebecca's frame , from her new shoes up , up to the leghorn cap and down the black braid . 
I don't seem to think I ever did read jest those partic'lar ones . 
Where'd you get a chance at so much readin' ? Oh , I've read lots of books , answered Rebecca casually . 
Father's and Miss Ross's and all the dif'rent school teachers' , and all in the Sunday school library . 
There's the river again this is the last long hill , and when we get to the top of it we'll see the chimbleys of Riverboro in the distance . 
I live 'bout half a mile beyond the brick house myself . 
Rebecca's hand stirred nervously in her lap and she moved in her seat . 
I didn't think I was going to be afraid , she said almost under her breath but I guess I am , just a little mite when you say it's coming so near . 
Would you go back ? asked Mr. Cobb curiously . 
She flashed him an intrepid look and then said proudly , I'd never go back I might be frightened , but I'd be ashamed to run . 
Going to aunt Mirandy's is like going down cellar in the dark . 
It would be just like the beautiful lady in the parade . 
Last summer the circus came to Temperance , and they had a procession in the morning . 
Mother let us all walk in and wheel Mira in the baby carriage , because we couldn't afford to go to the circus in the afternoon . 
There's the stage turnin' into the Sawyer girls' dooryard , said Mrs. Perkins to her husband . 
That must be the niece from up Temperance way . 
They used to say that one o' the Randalls married a Spanish woman , somebody that was teachin' music and languages at a boardin' school . 
Lorenzo was dark complected , you remember , and this child is , too . 
Well , I don't know as Spanish blood is any real disgrace , not if it's a good ways back and the woman was respectable . 
So although Miranda and Jane were between fifty and sixty at the time this story opens , Riverboro still called them the Sawyer girls . 
They were spinsters but Aurelia , the youngest , had made what she called a romantic marriage and what her sisters termed a mighty poor speculation . 
There's worse things than bein' old maids , they said whether they thought so is quite another matter . 
The element of romance in Aurelia's marriage existed chiefly in the fact that Mr. L. D. M. Randall had a soul above farming or trading and was a votary of the Muses . 
in half a dozen neighboring towns , he played the violin and called off at dances , or evoked rich harmonies from church melodeons on Sundays . 
She was wont to say plaintively , I'm afraid the faculties was too much divided up between my twins . 
L. D. M. is awful talented , but I guess M. D. L. would 'a' ben the practical one if he'd 'a' lived . 
L. D. M. was practical enough to get the richest girl in the village , replied Mrs. Robinson . 
Yes , sighed his mother , there it is again if the twins could 'a' married Aurelia Sawyer , 't would 'a' been all right . 
L. D. M. was talented 'nough to GET Reely's money , but M. D. L. would 'a' ben practical 'nough to have KEP' it . 
Aurelia's share of the modest Sawyer property had been put into one thing after another by the handsome and luckless Lorenzo de Medici . 
He had a graceful and poetic way of making an investment for each new son and daughter that blessed their union . 
Miranda and Jane had virtually washed their hands of Aurelia when she married Lorenzo de Medici Randall . 
, was a small farm two miles from Temperance . 
It was in this happy go lucky household that Rebecca had grown up . 
It was just an ordinary family two or three of the children were handsome and the rest plain , three of them rather clever , two industrious , and two commonplace and dull . 
Rebecca had her father's facility and had been his aptest pupil . 
She carried the alto by ear , danced without being taught , played the melodeon without knowing the notes . 
Her love of books she inherited chiefly from her mother , who found it hard to sweep or cook or sew when there was a novel in the house . 
Fortunately books were scarce , or the children might sometimes have gone ragged and hungry . 
But other forces had been at work in Rebecca , and the traits of unknown forbears had been wrought into her fibre . 
Lorenzo de Medici was flabby and boneless Rebecca was a thing of fire and spirit he lacked energy and courage Rebecca was plucky at two and dauntless at five . 
Mrs. Randall and Hannah had no sense of humor Rebecca possessed and showed it as soon as she could walk and talk . 
She had not been able , however , to borrow her parents' virtues and those of other generous ancestors and escape all the weaknesses in the calendar . 
She had not her sister Hannah's patience or her brother John's sturdy staying power . 
Her will was sometimes willfulness , and the ease with which she did most things led her to be impatient of hard tasks or long ones . 
But whatever else there was or was not , there was freedom at Randall's farm . 
Hannah was her mother's favorite , so far as Aurelia could indulge herself in such recreations as partiality . 
She it was who kept the house while Aurelia busied herself in barn and field . 
These antics were solely the result of nervous irritation , a mood born of Miss Miranda Sawyer's stiff , grim , and martial attitude . 
I s'posed , of course , Aurelia would send us the one we asked for , but it's just like her to palm off that wild young one on somebody else . 
You remember we said that Rebecca or even Jenny might come , in case Hannah couldn't , interposed Jane . 
I know we did , but we hadn't any notion it would turn out that way , grumbled Miranda . 
She was a mite of a thing when we saw her three years ago , ventured Jane she's had time to improve . 
And time to grow worse ! Won't it be kind of a privilege to put her on the right track ? asked Jane timidly . 
I don' know about the privilege part it'll be considerable of a chore , I guess . 
If her mother hain't got her on the right track by now , she won't take to it herself all of a sudden . 
This depressed and depressing frame of mind had lasted until the eventful day dawned on which Rebecca was to arrive . 
I know Aurelia if you don't , responded Miranda . 
That child will like as not come here with a passel o' things borrowed from the rest o' the family . 
She'll have Hannah's shoes and John's undershirts and Mark's socks most likely . 
I suppose she never had a thimble on her finger in her life , but she'll know the feelin' o' one before she's ben here many days . 
I've bought a piece of unbleached muslin and a piece o' brown gingham for her to make up that'll keep her busy . 
Of course she won't pick up anything after herself she probably never see a duster , and she'll be as hard to train into our ways as if she was a heathen . 
She'll make a dif'rence , acknowledged Jane , but she may turn out more biddable 'n we think . 
She'll mind when she's spoken to , biddable or not , remarked Miranda with a shake of the last towel . 
Miranda Sawyer had a heart , of course , but she had never used it for any other purpose than the pumping and circulating of blood . 
She was engaged to marry young Tom Carter , who had nothing to marry on , it is true , but who was sure to have , some time or other . 
Then the war broke out . 
Tom enlisted at the first call . 
Up to that time Jane had loved him with a quiet , friendly sort of affection , and had given her country a mild emotion of the same sort . 
But the strife , the danger , the anxiety of the time , set new currents of feeling in motion . 
Life became something other than the three meals a day , the round of cooking , washing , sewing , and church going . 
Personal gossip vanished from the village conversation . 
Having learned the trick of beating and loving and suffering , the poor faithful heart persisted , although it lived on memories and carried on its sentimental operations mostly in secret . 
You're soft , Jane , said Miranda once you allers was soft , and you allers will be . 
If 't wa'n't for me keeping you stiffened up , I b'lieve you'd leak out o' the house into the dooryard . 
It was already past the appointed hour for Mr. Cobb and his coach to be lumbering down the street . 
The stage ought to be here , said Miranda , glancing nervously at the tall clock for the twentieth time . 
I guess everything 's done . 
I've tacked up two thick towels back of her washstand and put a mat under her slop jar but children are awful hard on furniture . 
I expect we sha'n't know this house a year from now . 
Jane's frame of mind was naturally depressed and timorous , having been affected by Miranda's gloomy presages of evil to come . 
It was in one of these flashes that she ran up the back stairs to put a vase of apple blossoms and a red tomato pincushion on Rebecca's bureau . 
The stage rumbled to the side door of the brick house , and Mr. Cobb handed Rebecca out like a real lady passenger . 
You needn't 'a' bothered to bring flowers , remarked that gracious and tactful lady the garden 's always full of 'em here when it comes time . 
Jane then kissed Rebecca , giving a somewhat better imitation of the real thing than her sister . 
Put the trunk in the entry , Jeremiah , and we'll get it carried upstairs this afternoon , she said . 
I'll take it up for ye now , if ye say the word , girls . 
No , no don't leave the horses somebody'll be comin' past , and we can call 'em in . 
Well , good by , Rebecca good day , Mirandy 'n' Jane . 
You've got a lively little girl there . 
I guess she'll be a first rate company keeper . 
We're not much used to noise , Jane and me , she remarked acidly . 
I'll take you up and show you your room , Rebecca , Miss Miranda said . 
Rub your feet on that braided rug hang your hat and cape in the entry there as you go past . 
It's my best hat , said Rebecca Take it upstairs then and put it in the clothes press but I shouldn't 'a' thought you'd 'a' worn your best hat on the stage . 
It's my only hat , explained Rebecca . 
My everyday hat wasn't good enough to bring . 
Fanny's going to finish it . 
Lay your parasol in the entry closet . 
Do you mind if I keep it in my room , please ? It always seems safer . 
There ain't any thieves hereabouts , and if there was , I guess they wouldn't make for your sunshade , but come along . 
When you've washed your face and hands and brushed your hair you can come down , and by and by we'll unpack your trunk and get you settled before supper . 
Hind side foremost ? Oh , I see ! No , that's all right . 
If you have seven children you can't keep buttonin' and unbuttonin' 'em all the time they have to do themselves . 
We're always buttoned up in front at our house . 
Mira's only three , but she's buttoned up in front , too . 
Miranda said nothing as she closed the door , but her looks were at once equivalent to and more eloquent than words . 
Rebecca stood perfectly still in the centre of the floor and looked about her . 
There was a square of oilcloth in front of each article of furniture and a drawn in rug beside the single four poster , which was covered with a fringed white dimity counterpane . 
Everything was as neat as wax , but the ceilings were much higher than Rebecca was accustomed to . 
It was a north room , and the window , which was long and narrow , looked out on the back buildings and the barn . 
In a moment the door opened quietly . 
Knocking was a refinement quite unknown in Riverboro , and if it had been heard of would never have been wasted on a child . 
What are you layin' on your good bed in the daytime for , messin' up the feathers , and dirtyin' the pillers with your dusty boots ? Rebecca rose guiltily . 
There seemed no excuse to make . 
Her offense was beyond explanation or apology . 
I'm sorry , aunt Mirandy something came over me I don't know what . 
Well , if it comes over you very soon again we'll have to find out what 't is . 
When Mr. Cobb had put up his horses that night he carried a kitchen chair to the side of his wife , who was sitting on the back porch . 
I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to day , mother . 
She's kin to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em , he said , as he sat down and began to whittle . 
She's that Aurelia's child , the one that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come here to live . 
She ain't no beauty her face is all eyes but if she ever grows up to them eyes an' fills out a little she'll make folks stare . 
Land , mother ! I wish 't you could 'a' heard her talk . 
I don't see what she had to talk about , a child like that , to a stranger , replied Mrs. Cobb . 
Stranger or no stranger , 't wouldn't make no difference to her . 
She'd talk to a pump or a grind stun she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still . 
What did she talk about ? Blamed if I can repeat any of it . 
She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me . 
She had a little pink sunshade it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill , 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin' . 
I advised her to open it up the sun was so hot but she said no , 't would fade , an' she tucked it under her dress . 
It's the dearest thing in life to me , says she , but it's a dreadful care . 
Them 's the very words , an' it's all the words I remember . 
It's the dearest thing in life to me , but it's an awful care ! here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house . 
There was another thing , but I can't get it right exactly . 
She'll be comin' over to see you , mother , an' you can size her up for yourself . 
Rebecca's first letters to her mother would seem to indicate that she cordially coincided with the latter view of the situation . 
IV REBECCA'S POINT OF VIEW Dear Mother , I am safely here . 
My dress was not much tumbled and Aunt Jane helped me press it out . 
I like Mr. Cobb very much . 
He chews but throws newspapers straight up to the doors . 
I rode outside a little while , but got inside before I got to Aunt Miranda's house . 
I did not want to , but thought you would like it better . 
Miranda is such a long word that I think I will say Aunt M. and Aunt J. in my Sunday letters . 
Aunt J. has given me a dictionary to look up all the hard words in . 
It takes a good deal of time and I am glad people can talk without stoping to spell . 
It is much eesier to talk than write and much more fun . 
The brick house looks just the same as you have told us . 
The parler is splendid and gives you creeps and chills when you look in the door . 
The furnature is ellergant too , and all the rooms but there are no good sitting down places exsept in the kitchen . 
The same cat is here but they do not save kittens when she has them , and the cat is too old to play with . 
Hannah told me once you ran away with father and I can see it would be nice . 
If Aunt M. would run away I think I should like to live with Aunt J. She does not hate me as bad as Aunt M. does . 
Tell Mark he can have my paint box , but I should like him to keep the red cake in case I come home again . 
I hope Hannah and John do not get tired doing my chores . 
P. S. Please give the piece of poetry to John because he likes my poetry even when it is not very good . 
This piece is not very good but it is true but I hope you won't mind what is in it as you ran away . 
This house is dark and dull and dreer No light doth shine from far or near Its like the tomb . 
And those of us who live herein Are most as dead as serrafim Though not as good . 
I made the poetry like a piece in a book but could not get it right at first . 
You see tomb and good do not sound well together but I wanted to say tomb dreadfully and as serrafim are always good I couldn't take that out . 
I have made it over now . 
It does not say my thoughts as well but think it is more right . 
Give the best one to John as he keeps them in a box with his birds' eggs . 
This is the best one . 
SUNDAY THOUGHTS BY REBECCA ROWENA RANDALL This house is dark and dull and drear No light doth shine from far or near Nor ever could . 
And those of us who live herein Are most as dead as seraphim Though not as good . 
My guardian angel is asleep At least he doth no vigil keep But far doth roam . 
Then give me back my lonely farm Where none alive did wish me harm , Dear childhood home ! Dear Mother , I am thrilling with unhappyness this morning . 
I got that out of Cora The Doctor's Wife whose husband's mother was very cross and unfealing to her like Aunt M. to me . 
I wish Hannah had come instead of me for it was Hannah that was wanted and she is better than I am and does not answer back so quick . 
Are there any peaces of my buff calico . 
Aunt J. wants enough to make a new waste button behind so I wont look so outlandish . 
The stiles are quite pretty in Riverboro and those at Meeting quite ellergant more so than in Temperance . 
This town is stilish , gay and fair , And full of wellthy riches rare , But I would pillow on my arm The thought of my sweet Brookside Farm . 
The Teacher can answer more questions than the Temperance one but not so many as I can ask . 
I am smarter than all the girls but one but not so smart as two boys . 
Emma Jane can add and subtract in her head like a streek of lightning and knows the speling book right through but has no thoughts of any kind . 
She is in the Third Reader but does not like stories in books . 
I am going to try for the speling prize but fear I cannot get it . 
I would not care but wrong speling looks dreadful in poetry . 
Miss Dearborn says use the words you CAN spell and if you cant spell seraphim make angel do but angels are not just the same as seraphims . 
I sew on brown gingham dresses every afternoon when Emma Jane and the Simpsons are playing house or running on the Logs when their mothers do not know it . 
Their mothers are afraid they will drown and Aunt M. is afraid I will wet my clothes so will not let me either . 
I can play from half past four to supper and after supper a little bit and Saturday afternoons . 
I am glad our cow has a calf and it is spotted . 
It is going to be a good year for apples and hay so you and John will be glad and we can pay a little more morgage . 
Miss Dearborn asked us what is the object of edducation and I said the object of mine was to help pay off the morgage . 
Emma Jane is not morgaged nor Richard Carter nor Dr . 
Winship but the Simpsons are . 
Rise my soul , strain every nerve , Thy morgage to remove , Gain thy mother's heartfelt thanks Thy family's grateful love . 
Miss Dearborn , it may be said in passing , had had no special preparation in the art of teaching . 
It was his function to build , the absence of water or of possible progeny was an accident for which he was not accountable . 
In the same manner did Miss Dearborn lay what she fondly imagined to be foundations in the infant mind . 
Rebecca walked to school after the first morning . 
She loved this part of the day's programme . 
When the dew was not too heavy and the weather was fair there was a short cut through the woods . 
She descended a little hill , jumped from stone to stone across a woodland brook , startling the drowsy frogs , who were always winking and blinking in the morning sun . 
Then she climbed a stile , went through a grassy meadow , slid under another pair of bars , and came out into the road again . 
having gained nearly half a mile . 
How delicious it all was ! Rebecca clasped her Quackenbos's Grammar and Greenleaf's Arithmetic with a joyful sense of knowing her lessons . 
Sometimes she said whatever piece she was going to speak on the next Friday afternoon . 
A soldier of the Legion lay dying in Algiers , There was lack of woman's nursing , there was dearth of woman's tears . 
It always sounded beautiful in her ears , as she sent her tearful little treble into the clear morning air . 
was Woodman , spare that tree ! Touch not a single bough ! In youth it sheltered me , And I'll protect it now . 
When Emma Jane Perkins walked through the short cut with her , the two children used to render this with appropriate dramatic action . 
Emma Jane always chose to be the woodman because she had nothing to do but raise on high an imaginary axe . 
One morning , feeling more frisky than usual , she fell upon her knees and wept in the woodman's petticoat . 
Curiously enough , her sense of proportion rejected this as soon as it was done . 
That wasn't right , it was silly , Emma Jane but I'll tell you where it might come in in Give me Three Grains of Corn . 
You be the mother , and I'll be the famishing Irish child . 
For pity's sake put the axe down you are not the woodman any longer ! What'll I do with my hands , then ? asked Emma Jane . 
Whatever you like , Rebecca answered wearily you're just a mother that's all . 
This sort of thing made Emma Jane nervous and fidgety , but she was Rebecca's slave and hugged her chains , no matter how uncomfortable they made her . 
It boasted no attractions within . 
Rebecca in particular was so difficult to classify that Miss Dearborn at the end of a fortnight gave up the attempt altogether . 
Full to the brim as she was of clever thoughts and quaint fancies , she made at first but a poor hand at composition . 
The labor of writing and spelling , with the added difficulties of punctuation and capitals , interfered sadly with the free expression of ideas . 
She took history with Alice Robinson's class , which was attacking the subject of the Revolution , while Rebecca was bidden to begin with the discovery of America . 
In a week she had mastered the course of events up to the Revolution , and in ten days had arrived at Yorktown , where the class had apparently established summer quarters . 
Samuel Simpson was generally called Seesaw , because of his difficulty in making up his mind . 
Seesaw was pale , flaxen haired , blue eyed , round shouldered , and given to stammering when nervous . 
On a certain warm day in summer Rebecca's thirst exceeded the bounds of propriety . 
When she asked a third time for permission to quench it at the common fountain Miss Dearborn nodded yes , but lifted her eyebrows unpleasantly as Rebecca neared the desk . 
As she replaced the dipper Seesaw promptly raised his hand , and Miss Dearborn indicated a weary affirmative . 
What is the matter with you , Rebecca ? she asked . 
I had salt mackerel for breakfast , answered Rebecca . 
There seemed nothing humorous about this reply , which was merely the statement of a fact , but an irrepressible titter ran through the school . 
Miss Dearborn did not enjoy jokes neither made nor understood by herself , and her face flushed . 
I think you had better stand by the pail for five minutes , Rebecca it may help you to control your thirst . 
Stand by the pail , Rebecca ! Samuel , how many times have you asked for water to day ? This is the f f fourth . 
Don't touch the dipper , please . 
The school has done nothing but drink this afternoon it has had no time whatever to study . 
I suppose you had something salt for breakfast , Samuel ? queried Miss Dearborn with sarcasm . 
I had m m mackerel , j just like Reb b becca . 
Stand by the other side of the pail , Samuel . 
Rebecca's head was bowed with shame and wrath . 
Life looked too black a thing to be endured . 
The punishment was bad enough , but to be coupled in correction with Seesaw Simpson was beyond human endurance . 
The child's face was pale save for two red spots glowing on her cheeks . 
Tears hung on her lashes her breath came and went quickly , and the hand that held her pocket handkerchief trembled like a leaf . 
You may go to your seat , Rebecca , said Miss Dearborn at the end of the first song . 
Samuel , stay where you are till the close of school . 
Every time Rebecca has asked for a drink to day the whole school has gone to the pail one after another . 
She is really thirsty , and I dare say I ought to have punished you for following her example , not her for setting it . 
What shall we sing now , Alice ? The Old Oaken Bucket , please . 
Think of something dry , Alice , and change the subject . 
Yes , The Star Spangled Banner if you like , or anything else . 
Rebecca sank into her seat and pulled the singing book from her desk . 
Miss Dearborn's public explanation had shifted some of the weight from her heart , and she felt a trifle raised in her self esteem . 
Under cover of the general relaxation of singing , votive offerings of respectful sympathy began to make their appearance at her shrine . 
Living Perkins , who could not sing , dropped a piece of maple sugar in her lap as he passed her on his way to the blackboard to draw the map of Maine . 
Altogether existence grew brighter , and when she was left alone with the teacher for her grammar lesson she had nearly recovered her equanimity , which was more than Miss Dearborn had . 
The last clattering foot had echoed through the hall , Seesaw's backward glance of penitence had been met and answered defiantly by one of cold disdain . 
I hadn't missed a question this whole day , nor whispered either , quavered the culprit and I don't think I ought to be shamed just for drinking . 
You started all the others , or it seemed as if you did . 
Whatever you do they all do , whether you laugh , or miss , or write notes , or ask to leave the room , or drink and it must be stopped . 
Sam Simpson is a copycoat ! stormed Rebecca I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone that is , not so very much but I couldn't bear standing with him . 
I saw that you couldn't , and that's the reason I told you to take your seat , and left him in the corner . 
Remember that you are a stranger in the place , and they take more notice of what you do , so you must be careful . 
Now let's have our conjugations . 
Give me the verb to be , potential mood , past perfect tense . 
I might have been We might have been Thou mightst have been You might have been He might have been They might have been . 
Give me an example , please . 
I might have been glad Thou mightst have been glad He , she , or it might have been glad . 
He' or she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine , but could it' have been glad ? asked Miss Dearborn , who was very fond of splitting hairs . 
Why not ? asked Rebecca Because it' is neuter gender . 
We can't tell , I s'pose , replied the child but I think they are , anyway . 
Now what shall I say ? The subjunctive mood , past perfect tense of the verb to know . 
If I had known If we had known If thou hadst known If you had known If he had known If they had known . 
Give me some more examples of the subjunctive , Rebecca , and that will do for this afternoon , she said . 
If I had not loved mackerel I should not have been thirsty said Rebecca with an April smile , as she closed her grammar . 
If thou hadst loved me truly thou wouldst not have stood me up in the corner . 
If Samuel had not loved wickedness he would not have followed me to the water pail . 
And if Rebecca had loved the rules of the school she would have controlled her thirst , finished Miss Dearborn with a kiss , and the two parted friends . 
, but failed ignominiously in the attempt . 
Whenever she fell below this self imposed standard she was miserable . 
She did not like to be under her aunt's roof , eating bread , wearing clothes , and studying books provided by her , and dislike her so heartily all the time . 
She felt instinctively that this was wrong and mean , and whenever the feeling of remorse was strong within her she made a desperate effort to please her grim and difficult relative . 
There are certain narrow , unimaginative , and autocratic old people who seem to call out the most mischievous , and sometimes the worst traits in children . 
Miss Miranda , had she lived in a populous neighborhood , would have had her doorbell pulled , her gate tied up , or dirt traps set in her garden paths . 
The Simpson twins stood in such awe of her that they could not be persuaded to come to the side door even when Miss Jane held gingerbread cookies in her outstretched hands . 
It is needless to say that Rebecca irritated her aunt with every breath she drew . 
They had not been born in Riverboro nor even in York County . 
Now if Hannah had come Hannah took after the other side of the house she was all Sawyer . 
The child took her sewing and sat beside aunt Jane in the kitchen while aunt Miranda had the post of observation at the sitting room window . 
Sometimes they would work on the side porch where the clematis and woodbine shaded them from the hot sun . 
To Rebecca the lengths of brown gingham were interminable . 
She polished her needles to nothing , pushing them in and out of the emery strawberry , but they always squeaked . 
When the first brown gingham frock was completed , the child seized what she thought an opportune moment and asked her aunt Miranda if she might have another color for the next one . 
I bought a whole piece of the brown , said Miranda laconically . 
That'll give you two more dresses , with plenty for new sleeves , and to patch and let down with , an' be more economical . 
But Mr. Watson says he'll take back part of it , and let us have pink and blue for the same price . 
Did you ask him ? Yes'm . 
It was none o' your business . 
I was helping Emma Jane choose aprons , and didn't think you'd mind which color I had . 
Pink keeps clean just as nice as brown , and Mr. Watson says it'll boil without fading . 
Mr. Watson 's a splendid judge of washing , I guess . 
I don't approve of children being rigged out in fancy colors , but I'll see what your aunt Jane thinks . 
I think it would be all right to let Rebecca have one pink and one blue gingham , said Jane . 
A child gets tired of sewing on one color . 
It's only natural she should long for a change besides she'd look like a charity child always wearing the same brown with a white apron . 
I believe she's vain as a peacock now , without anything to be vain of . 
She's young and attracted to bright things that's all . 
I remember well enough how I felt at her age . 
You was considerable of a fool at her age , Jane . 
There finally was a pink gingham , and when it was nicely finished , aunt Jane gave Rebecca a delightful surprise . 
She showed her how to make a pretty trimming of narrow white linen tape , by folding it in pointed shapes and sewing it down very flat with neat little stitches . 
It'll be good fancy work for you , Rebecca for your aunt Miranda won't like to see you always reading in the long winter evenings . 
Rebecca's joy knew no bounds . 
I'll baste like a house afire ! she exclaimed . 
It's a thousand yards round that skirt , as well I know , having hemmed it but I could sew pretty trimming on if it was from here to Milltown . 
It's TWENTY NINE minutes past four , aunt Jane , and Alice Robinson has been sitting under the currant bushes for a long time waiting for me . 
I see Susan Simpson and the twins and Emma Jane Perkins hiding behind the fence . 
They were much too small for certain pleasurable activities planned for that afternoon but they were not to be despised , for they had the most fascinating dooryard in the village . 
Mrs. Simpson was seldom at home , and even when she was , had little concern as to what happened on the premises . 
A favorite diversion was to make the house into a fort , gallantly held by a handful of American soldiers against a besieging force of the British army . 
Great care was used in apportioning the parts , for there was no disposition to let anybody win but the Americans . 
Next to this uncommonly interesting playground , as a field of action , came , in the children's opinion , the secret spot . 
There was a velvety stretch of ground in the Sawyer pasture which was full of fascinating hollows and hillocks , as well as verdant levels , on which to build houses . 
A group of trees concealed it somewhat from view and flung a grateful shade over the dwellings erected there . 
A tall , square house of stickins was to be built round Rebecca this afternoon , and she was to be Charlotte Corday leaning against the bars of her prison . 
Ain't it lovely ? sighed the humble twain , who had done most of the labor , but who generously admired the result . 
I hate to have to take it down , said Alice , it's been such a sight of work . 
If you think you could move up some stones and just take off the top rows , I could step out over , suggested Charlotte Corday . 
Then leave the stones , and you two can step down into the prison to morrow and be the two little princes in the Tower , and I can murder you . 
What princes ? What tower ? asked Alice and Emma Jane in one breath . 
Not now , it's my supper time . 
It would be elergant being murdered by you , said Emma Jane loyally , though you are awful real when you murder or we could have Elijah and Elisha for the princes . 
They'd yell when they was murdered , objected Alice you know how silly they are at plays , all except Clara Belle . 
Besides if we once show them this secret place , they'll play in it all the time , and perhaps they'd steal things , like their father . 
They needn't steal just because their father does , argued Rebecca and don't you ever talk about it before them if you want to be my secret , partic'lar friends . 
My mother tells me never to say hard things about people's own folks to their face . 
She says nobody can bear it , and it's wicked to shame them for what isn't their fault . 
Mr. Simpson was absent from the home circle for the moment because he had exchanged the Widow Rideout's sleigh for Joseph Goodwin's plough . 
Goodwin had lately moved to North Edgewood and had never before met the urbane and persuasive Mr. Simpson . 
in one neighbor's pasture after another , and then exchanged him with a Milltown man for a top buggy . 
It was at this juncture that the Widow Rideout missed her sleigh from the old carriage house . 
Such is the suspicious nature of the village mind that the moment she discovered her loss her thought at once reverted to Abner Simpson . 
, that it took the sheriff many weeks to prove Mr. Simpson's guilt to the town's and to the Widow Rideout's satisfaction . 
There were no secrets in the villages that lay along the banks of Pleasant River . 
All this was taken very much for granted , as a rule , but now and then some supersensitive person made violent objections to it , as a theory of life . 
She went , and in a year grew into a robust , hearty , cheerful woman . 
Returning to Riverboro on a brief visit , she was asked if she meant to end her days away from home . 
I do most certainly , if I can get any other place to stay , she responded candidly . 
I was bein' worn to a shadder here , tryin' to keep my little secrets to myself , an' never succeedin' . 
First they had it I wanted to marry the minister , and when he took a wife in Standish I was known to be disappointed . 
Cousin Cyrus is an old man an' consid'able trouble , but he thinks my teeth are handsome an' says I've got a splendid suit of hair . 
Among the Riverboro girls of her own age was a certain excellently named Minnie Smellie , who was anything but a general favorite . 
She was a ferret eyed , blond haired , spindle legged little creature whose mind was a cross between that of a parrot and a sheep . 
She was suspected of copying answers from other girls' slates , although she had never been caught in the act . 
There was no jam there as a matter of fact , but the guilty Minnie's handkerchief went to her crimson face in a flash . 
Rebecca confessed to Emma Jane that same afternoon that she felt ashamed of her prank . 
Far ahead , beyond the bars , she espied the Simpson children just entering the woodsy bit . 
Seesaw was not with them , so she hastened her steps in order to secure company on her homeward walk . 
The last glimpse of the routed Simpson tribe , and the last Rutter of their tattered garments , disappeared in the dim distance . 
Minnie's face was not pleasant to see , for a coward detected at the moment of wrongdoing is not an object of delight . 
Minnie Smellie , if ever I catch you singing that to the Simpsons again do you know what I'll do ? asked Rebecca in a tone of concentrated rage . 
I don't know and I don't care , said Minnie jauntily , though her looks belied her . 
I'll take that piece of coral away from you , and I THINK I shall slap you besides ! You wouldn't darst , retorted Minnie . 
I don't care if you tell the town , the whole of York county , the state of Maine and and the nation ! she finished grandiloquently . 
Now you run home and remember what I say . 
If you do it again , and especially if you say Jail Birds , if I think it's right and my duty , I shall punish you somehow . 
The next morning at recess Rebecca observed Minnie telling the tale with variations to Huldah Meserve . 
She THREATENED me , whispered Minnie , but I never believe a word she says . 
The latter remark was spoken with the direct intention of being overheard , for Minnie had spasms of bravery , when well surrounded by the machinery of law and order . 
As Rebecca went back to her seat she asked Miss Dearborn if she might pass a note to Minnie Smellie and received permission . 
This was the note Of all the girls that are so mean There's none like Minnie Smellie . 
I'll take away the gift I gave And pound her into jelly . 
P. S. Now do you believe me ? R. Randall . 
The effect of this piece of doggerel was entirely convincing , and for days afterwards whenever Minnie met the Simpsons even a mile from the brick house she shuddered and held her peace . 
Friday afternoon was always the time chosen for dialogues , songs , and recitations , but it cannot be stated that it was a gala day in any true sense of the word . 
Most of the children hated speaking pieces hated the burden of learning them , dreaded the danger of breaking down in them . 
The advent of Rebecca had somehow infused a new spirit into these hitherto terrible afternoons . 
Emma Jane and Rebecca had a dialogue , and the sense of companionship buoyed up Emma Jane and gave her self reliance . 
Living Perkins was asked to decorate one of the black boards and Rebecca the other . 
Living , who was the star artist of the school , chose the map of North America . 
Beside this appeared a figure of Columbia , copied from the top of the cigar box that held the crayons . 
Rebecca's heart leaped for joy , and to her confusion she felt the tears rising in her eyes . 
If nobleness enkindleth nobleness , so does enthusiasm beget enthusiasm , and so do wit and talent enkindle wit and talent . 
Alice Robinson proposed that the school should sing Three Cheers for the Red , White , and Blue ! and when they came to the chorus , all point to Rebecca's flag . 
Dick Carter suggested that Living Perkins and Rebecca Randall should sign their names to their pictures , so that the visitors would know who drew them . 
Huldah Meserve asked permission to cover the largest holes in the plastered walls with boughs and fill the water pail with wild flowers . 
Rebecca's mood was above and beyond all practical details . 
She sat silent , her heart so full of grateful joy that she could hardly remember the words of her dialogue . 
Miss Dearborn dismissed the morning session at quarter to twelve , so that those who lived near enough could go home for a change of dress . 
Emma Jane and Rebecca ran nearly every step of the way , from sheer excitement , only stopping to breathe at the stiles . 
Will your aunt Mirandy let you wear your best , or only your buff calico ? asked Emma Jane . 
I think I'll ask aunt Jane , Rebecca replied . 
It would look perfectly elergant flashing in the sun when I point to the flag . 
Good by don't wait for me going back I may get a ride . 
Rebecca swallowed a piece of bread and butter , and flew up the front stairs to her bedroom . 
On the bed lay the pink gingham dress finished by aunt Jane's kind hands . 
Then her eye fell on her cherished pink sunshade , the exact match , and the girls had never seen it . 
She glanced in the parlor looking glass downstairs and was electrified at the vision . 
Goodness ! it was twenty minutes to one and she would be late . 
Rebecca Randall ! exclaimed Emma Jane , you're handsome as a picture ! I ? laughed Rebecca Nonsense ! it's only the pink gingham . 
You're not good looking every day , insisted Emma Jane but you're different somehow . 
See my garnet ring mother scrubbed it in soap and water . 
How on earth did your aunt Mirandy let you put on your bran' new dress ? They were both away and I didn't ask , Rebecca responded anxiously . 
Why ? Do you think they'd have said no ? Miss Mirandy always says no , doesn't she ? asked Emma Jane . 
Ye es but this afternoon is very special almost like a Sunday school concert . 
Yes , assented Emma Jane , it is , of course with your name on the board , and our pointing to your flag , and our elergant dialogue , and all that . 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned . 
There were no real failures at all , no tears , no parents ashamed of their offspring . 
Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability , and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly , at least , to Rebecca . 
The child had no more to do than several others , but she was somehow in the foreground . 
It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background it positively refused to hold her . 
Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing . 
If wherever the MacGregor sat was the head of the table , so in the same way wherever Rebecca stood was the centre of the stage . 
Her clear high treble soared above all the rest in the choruses , and somehow everybody watched her , took note of her gestures , her whole souled singing , her irrepressible enthusiasm . 
Finally it was all over , and it seemed to Rebecca as if she should never be cool and calm again , as she loitered on the homeward path . 
There were thick gathering clouds in the sky , but she took no note of them save to be glad that she could raise her sunshade . 
Then with a rush she came back to earth . 
Now I'm the oldest , Jane , an' I intend to have my say out if you don't like it you can go into the kitchen till it's over . 
Step right in here , Rebecca I want to talk to you . 
You did no such a thing you put it on because you was left alone , though you knew well enough I wouldn't have let you . 
If I'd been CERTAIN you wouldn't have let me I'd never have done it , said Rebecca , trying to be truthful but I wasn't CERTAIN , and it was worth risking . 
I thought perhaps you might , if you knew it was almost a real exhibition at school . 
Exhibition ! exclaimed Miranda scornfully you are exhibition enough by yourself , I should say . 
I haven't hurt my dress a mite , aunt Mirandy . 
It's the craftiness and underhandedness of your actions that's the worst , said Miranda coldly . 
You left the screen out of your bedroom window for the flies to come in all over the house . 
How could she have been so careless ? The tears began to flow now as she attempted to explain sins that never could be explained or justified . 
Oh , I'm so sorry ! she faltered . 
I was trimming the schoolroom , and got belated , and ran all the way home . 
An ounce of good behavior is worth a pound of repentance . 
Take that rose out o' your dress and let me see the spot it's made on your yoke , an' the rusty holes where the wet pin went in . 
No , it ain't but it's more by luck than forethought . 
I ain't got any patience with your flowers and frizzled out hair and furbelows an' airs an' graces , for all the world like your Miss Nancy father . 
Rebecca lifted her head in a flash . 
Look here , aunt Mirandy , I'll be as good as I know how to be . 
I'll mind quick when I'm spoken to and never leave the door unlocked again , but I won't have my father called names . 
It's s something to leave s seven nice children , sobbed Rebecca . 
Not when other folks have to help feed , clothe , and educate 'em , responded Miranda . 
Now you step upstairs , put on your nightgown , go to bed , and stay there till to morrow mornin' . 
You'll find a bowl o' crackers an' milk on your bureau , an' I don't want to hear a sound from you till breakfast time . 
Jane , run an' take the dish towels off the line and shut the shed doors we're goin' to have a turrible shower . 
We've had it , I should think , said Jane quietly , as she went to do her sister's bidding . 
I don't often speak my mind , Mirandy but you ought not to have said what you did about Lorenzo . 
He was what he was , and can't be made any different but he was Rebecca's father , and Aurelia always says he was a good husband . 
I'm glad I said just what I did . 
Perhaps after all it is just as well to speak only once a year and then speak to the purpose . 
Rebecca mounted the back stairs wearily , closed the door of her bedroom , and took off the beloved pink gingham with trembling fingers . 
She smoothed it out carefully , pinched up the white ruffle at the neck , and laid it away in a drawer with an extra little sob at the roughness of life . 
The withered pink rose fell on the floor . 
It was a child's poetic instinct with a dawning hint of woman's sentiment in it . 
, with all the while a fixed resolve growing in her mind , that of leaving the brick house and going back to the farm . 
I hope she'll like it ! she thought in a momentary burst of vindictiveness . 
She sat by the window trying to make some sort of plan , watching the lightning play over the hilltop and the streams of rain chasing each other down the lightning rod . 
She would go to Maplewood on the stage next day with Mr. Cobb and get home somehow from cousin Ann's . 
On second thoughts her aunts might not allow it . 
Very well , she would slip away now and see if she could stay all night with the Cobbs and be off next morning before breakfast . 
Her room was in the L and her window at no very dangerous distance from the ground , though had it been , nothing could have stopped her at that moment . 
Jeremiah Cobb sat at his lonely supper at the table by the kitchen window . 
Mother , as he with his old fashioned habits was in the habit of calling his wife , was nursing a sick neighbor . 
The rain still fell , and the heavens were dark , though it was scarcely five o'clock . 
Looking up from his dish of tea , the old man saw at the open door a very figure of woe . 
Rebecca's face was so swollen with tears and so sharp with misery that for a moment he scarcely recognized her . 
Draw up to the stove . 
I made a fire , hot as it was , thinkin' I wanted somethin' warm for my supper , bein' kind o' lonesome without mother . 
She's settin' up with Seth Strout to night . 
There , we'll hang your soppy hat on the nail , put your jacket over the chair rail , an' then you turn your back to the stove an' dry yourself good . 
Will you keep me to night and take me up to Maplewood in the stage ? I haven't got any money for my fare , but I'll earn it somehow afterwards . 
I shall never see Milltown now ! sobbed Rebecca . 
Come over here side o' me an' tell me all about it , coaxed uncle Jerry . 
Jest set down on that there wooden cricket an' out with the whole story . 
Rebecca leaned her aching head against Mr. Cobb's homespun knee and recounted the history of her trouble . 
Tragic as that history seemed to her passionate and undisciplined mind , she told it truthfully and without exaggeration . 
Don't you fret a mite , he answered , with a crafty little notion at the back of his mind I'll see the lady passenger through somehow . 
Now take a bite o' somethin' to eat , child . 
Spread some o' that tomato preserve on your bread draw up to the table . 
I suppose your mother'll be turrible glad to see you back again ? queried Mr. Cobb . 
A tiny fear just a baby thing in the bottom of Rebecca's heart stirred and grew larger the moment it was touched with a question . 
She won't like it that I ran away , I s'pose , and she'll be sorry that I couldn't please aunt Mirandy but I'll make her understand , just as I did you . 
Oh well ! there's other things in the world beside edjercation , responded uncle Jerry , attacking a piece of apple pie . 
Ye es though mother thought that was going to be the making of me , returned Rebecca sadly , giving a dry little sob as she tried to drink her tea . 
It's too full that's the trouble . 
But I'll make Hannah come to Riverboro in my place . 
S'pose Mirandy 'n' Jane'll have her ? I should be 'most afraid they wouldn't . 
They'll be kind o' mad at your goin' home , you know , and you can't hardly blame 'em . 
This was quite a new thought , that the brick house might be closed to Hannah , since she , Rebecca , had turned her back upon its cold hospitality . 
How is this school down here in Riverboro pretty good ? inquired uncle Jerry , whose brain was working with an altogether unaccustomed rapidity , so much so that it almost terrified him . 
Oh , it's a splendid school ! And Miss Dearborn is a splendid teacher ! You like her , do you ? Well , you'd better believe she returns the compliment . 
Mother was down to the store this afternoon buyin' liniment for Seth Strout , an' she met Miss Dearborn on the bridge . 
They got to talkin' 'bout school , for mother has summer boarded a lot o' the schoolmarms , an' likes 'em . 
How does the little Temperance girl git along ? asks mother . 
Oh , she's the best scholar I have ! says Miss Dearborn . 
I could teach school from sun up to sun down if scholars was all like Rebecca Randall , says she . 
Oh , Mr. Cobb , DID she say that ? glowed Rebecca , her face sparkling and dimpling in an instant . 
I've tried hard all the time , but I'll study the covers right off of the books now . 
You mean you would if you'd ben goin' to stay here , interposed uncle Jerry . 
Now ain't it too bad you've jest got to give it all up on account o' your aunt Mirandy ? Well , I can't hardly blame ye . 
She's cranky an' she's sour I should think she'd ben nussed on bonny clabber an' green apples . 
She needs bearin' with an' I guess you ain't much on patience , be ye ? Not very much , replied Rebecca dolefully . 
If I'd had this talk with ye yesterday , pursued Mr. Cobb , I believe I'd have advised ye different . 
I think she kind of likes me , too she smoothed my hair once . 
I'd let her scold me all day long , for she understands but she can't stand up for me against aunt Mirandy she's about as afraid of her as I am . 
Jane'll be real sorry to morrow to find you've gone away , I guess but never mind , it can't be helped . 
If she has a kind of a dull time with Mirandy , on account o' her bein' so sharp , why of course she'd set great store by your comp'ny . 
Mother was talkin' with her after prayer meetin' the other night . 
You wouldn't know the brick house , Sarah , says Jane . 
I'm keepin' a sewin' school , an' my scholar has made three dresses . 
The rain ceased , a sudden rosy light filled the room , and through the window a rainbow arch could be seen spanning the heavens like a radiant bridge . 
Bridges took one across difficult places , thought Rebecca , and uncle Jerry seemed to have built one over her troubles and given her strength to walk . 
Rebecca pushed her cup away , rose from the table , and put on her hat and jacket quietly . 
I'm not going to drive up river , Mr. Cobb , she said . 
I'm going to stay here and catch bricks catch 'em without throwing 'em back , too . 
I don't know as aunt Mirandy will take me in after I've run away , but I'm going back now while I have the courage . 
You see you ain't run away yet you've only come over here to consult me 'bout runnin' away , an' we've concluded it ain't wuth the trouble . 
The only real sin you've committed , as I figger it out , was in comin' here by the winder when you'd ben sent to bed . 
She had been saved from foolishness and error kept from troubling her poor mother prevented from angering and mortifying her aunts . 
She could not endure Jane's disapproval , although she would never have confessed to such a weakness . 
Mirandy Sawyer would be a heap better woman if she had a little gravestun to remember , same's mother 'n' I have . 
I never see a child improve in her work as Rebecca has to day , remarked Miranda Sawyer to Jane on Saturday evening . 
That settin' down I gave her was probably just what she needed , and I daresay it'll last for a month . 
I'm glad you're pleased , returned Jane . 
A cringing worm is what you want , not a bright , smiling child . 
Rebecca looks to me as if she'd been through the Seven Years' War . 
When she came downstairs this morning it seemed to me she'd grown old in the night . 
Then if you'll let her go to Milltown with the Cobbs on Wednesday , that'll hearten her up a little and coax back her appetite . 
Wednesday 's a holiday on account of Miss Dearborn's going home to her sister's wedding , and the Cobbs and Perkinses want to go down to the Agricultural Fair . 
She's the best company I ever see in all my life , said Mrs. Cobb to her husband that evening . 
We ain't had a dull minute this day . 
She's well mannered , too she didn't ask for anything , and was thankful for whatever she got . 
I took it all in , responded Mr. Cobb , who was pleased that mother agreed with him about Rebecca . 
I ain't sure but she's goin' to turn out somethin' remarkable , a singer , or a writer , or a lady doctor like that Miss Parks up to Cornish . 
Lady doctors are always home'paths , ain't they ? asked Mrs. Cobb , who , it is needless to say , was distinctly of the old school in medicine . 
Land , no , mother there ain't no home'path 'bout Miss Parks she drives all over the country . 
I can't see Rebecca as a lady doctor , somehow , mused Mrs. Cobb . 
Her gift o' gab is what's goin' to be the makin' of her mebbe she'll lecture , or recite pieces , like that Portland elocutionist that come out here to the harvest supper . 
I guess she'll be able to write down her own pieces , said Mr. Cobb confidently she could make 'em up faster 'n she could read 'em out of a book . 
It's a pity she's so plain looking , remarked Mrs. Cobb , blowing out the candle . 
PLAIN LOOKING , mother ? exclaimed her husband in astonishment . 
We've known what it was to hev children , even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago , an' we can make allowances . 
Notwithstanding the encomiums of Mr. and Mrs. Cobb , Rebecca made a poor hand at composition writing at this time . 
Write as you talk , Rebecca , insisted poor Miss Dearborn , who secretly knew that she could never manage a good composition herself . 
But gracious me , Miss Dearborn ! I don't talk about nature and slavery . 
I can't write unless I have something to say , can I ? That is what compositions are for , returned Miss Dearborn doubtfully to make you have things to say . 
Now in your last one , on solitude , you haven't said anything very interesting , and you've made it too common and every day to sound well . 
There are too many yous' and yours' in it you ought to say one' now and then , to make it seem more like good writing . 
One opens a favorite book One's thoughts are a great comfort in solitude , and so on . 
I don't know any more about solitude this week than I did about joy and duty last week , grumbled Rebecca . 
You tried to be funny about joy and duty , said Miss Dearborn reprovingly so of course you didn't succeed . 
I didn't know you were going to make us read the things out loud , said Rebecca with an embarrassed smile of recollection . 
Joy and Duty had been the inspiring subject given to the older children for a theme to be written in five minutes . 
Rebecca had wrestled , struggled , perspired in vain . 
When her turn came to read she was obliged to confess she had written nothing . 
You have at least two lines , Rebecca , insisted the teacher , for I see them on your slate . 
I'd rather not read them , please they are not good , pleaded Rebecca . 
Read what you have , good or bad , little or much I am excusing nobody . 
Rebecca rose , overcome with secret laughter dread , and mortification then in a low voice she read the couplet When Joy and Duty clash Let Duty go to smash . 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk , while Living Perkins choked with laughter . 
Miss Dearborn laughed too she was little more than a girl , and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor . 
You must stay after school and try again , Rebecca , she said , but she said it smilingly . 
Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty . 
It wasn't MY idea , said Rebecca apologetically . 
I had only made the first line when I saw you were going to ring the bell and say the time was up . 
I had clash' written , and I couldn't think of anything then but hash' or rash' or smash . 
I'll change it to this When Joy and Duty clash , 'T is Joy must go to smash . 
That is better , Miss Dearborn answered , though I cannot think going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry . 
There is one's work also what a joy it is to one , if one happens to like work . 
All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely . 
R. R. R. It is perfectly dreadful , sighed Rebecca when she read it aloud after school . 
Putting in one' all the time doesn't make it sound any more like a book , and it looks silly besides . 
You say such queer things , objected Miss Dearborn . 
I don't see what makes you do it . 
Why did you put in anything so common as picking up chips ? Because I was talking about household tasks' in the sentence before , and it IS one of my household tasks . 
Don't you think calling supper one's evening meal' is pretty ? and isn't bereft' a nice word ? Yes , that part of it does very well . 
It is the cat , the chips , and the milk pail that I don't like . 
All right ! sighed Rebecca . 
Out they go Does the cow go too ? Yes , I don't like a cow in a composition , said the difficult Miss Dearborn . 
Rebecca , on being confronted and charged with the crime , denied it indignantly , and aunt Jane believed her . 
Search your memory , Rebecca , and try to think what Minnie overheard you say , she pleaded . 
Don't be ugly and obstinate , but think real hard . 
When did they chase you up the road , and what were you doing ? A sudden light broke upon Rebecca's darkness . 
Oh ! I see it now , she exclaimed . 
It had rained hard all the morning , you know , and the road was full of puddles . 
Emma Jane , Living , and I were walking along , and I was ahead . 
It's just like that stupid Minnie Smellie who doesn't know a game when she sees one . 
And Eliza wasn't swearing when she said My God ! the river ! It was more like praying . 
Well , you've got no call to be prayin' , any more than swearin' , in the middle of the road , said Miranda but I'm thankful it's no worse . 
You're born to trouble as the sparks fly upward , an' I'm afraid you allers will be till you learn to bridle your unruly tongue . 
I wish sometimes that I could bridle Minnie's , murmured Rebecca , as she went to set the table for supper . 
I declare she IS the beatin'est child ! said Miranda , taking off her spectacles and laying down her mending . 
She's got the making of 'most anything in her , Rebecca has but I feel sometimes as if we were not fitted to cope with her . 
Stuff an' nonsense ! said Miranda Speak for yourself . 
The habit of speaking her mind freely was certainly growing on Jane to an altogether terrifying extent . 
The immediate cause of the decision was a somewhat sadder accident than was common , even in a career prolific in such things . 
Resting her elbows on the topmost board , and inclining her little figure forward in delicious ease , she stood there dreaming . 
Rebecca never went across the bridge without bending over the rail to wonder and to ponder , and at this special moment she was putting the finishing touches on a poem . 
Two maidens by a river strayed Down in the state of Maine . 
The one was called Rebecca , The other Emma Jane . 
I would my life were like the stream , Said her named Emma Jane , So quiet and so very smooth , So free from every pain . 
Don't let it take your appetite away , crooned Mrs. Cobb . 
I've got cream biscuit and honey for you . 
If the turpentine don't work , I'll try French chalk , magneshy , and warm suds . 
If they fail , father shall run over to Strout's and borry some of the stuff Marthy got in Milltown to take the currant pie out of her weddin' dress . 
I ain't got to understandin' this paintin' accident yet , said uncle Jerry jocosely , as he handed Rebecca the honey . 
Bein' as how there's Fresh Paint' signs hung all over the breedge , so 't a blind asylum couldn't miss 'em , I can't hardly account for your gettin' int' the pesky stuff . 
I didn't notice the signs , Rebecca said dolefully . 
I suppose I was looking at the falls . 
Children comes turrible high , mother , but I s'pose we must have 'em ! he said , winking at Mrs. Cobb . 
When supper was cleared away Rebecca insisted on washing and wiping the dishes , while Mrs. Cobb worked on the dress with an energy that plainly showed the gravity of the task . 
Rebecca kept leaving her post at the sink to bend anxiously over the basin and watch her progress , while uncle Jerry offered advice from time to time . 
Have you a piece of paper , please ? asked Rebecca . 
I'll copy out the poetry I was making while I was lying in the paint . 
Rebecca soon had the lines copied in her round schoolgirl hand , making such improvements as occurred to her on sober second thought . 
THE TWO WISHES BY REBECCA RANDALL Two maidens by a river strayed , 'T was in the state of Maine . 
Rebecca was the darker one , The fairer , Emma Jane . 
The fairer maiden said , I would My life were as the stream So peaceful , and so smooth and still , So pleasant and serene . 
I'd rather be a little drop In the great rushing fall I'd never choose the quiet lake 'T would not please me at all . 
But O ! alas ! we may not have The things we hope to gain . 
If you ask me , I say this piece is as good as that one o' his , Tell me not in mournful numbers and consid'able clearer . 
I never could fairly make out what mournful numbers' was , remarked Mr. Cobb critically . 
Then I guess you never studied fractions ! flashed Rebecca . 
It is horrid ! grumbled Rebecca . 
I ought not to have put that me' in . 
Nobody ought to know it IS me standing by the river it ought to be Rebecca , or the darker maiden and the rush to Emma Jane' is simply dreadful . 
Sometimes I think I never will try poetry , it's so hard to make it come right and other times it just says itself . 
Now for a new last verse ! In a few minutes the poetess looked up , flushed and triumphant . 
It was as easy as nothing . 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string bag . 
How in the world did you do it ? Mrs. Cobb exclaimed . 
Oh , it's easy , answered Rebecca the hymns at meeting are all like that . 
You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month . 
Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy , of course but he allows girls to try and write for it , and then chooses the best . 
Dick thinks I can be in it . 
IN it ! exclaimed uncle Jerry . 
Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible ? inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully . 
Oh ! would you like it ? asked Rebecca . 
Yes indeed ! I'll do a clean , nice one with violet ink and a fine pen . 
But I must go and look at my poor dress . 
The old couple followed Rebecca into the kitchen . 
They did , most uncompromisingly , and to the dullest eye . 
Rebecca gave one searching look , and then said , as she took her hat from a nail in the entry , I think I'll be going . 
Good night ! If I've got to have a scolding , I want it quick , and get it over . 
Poor little onlucky misfortunate thing ! sighed uncle Jerry , as his eyes followed her down the hill . 
Here's her poetry she's left behind . 
Read it out ag'in , mother . 
An' she'll just edit for all she's worth ! The thought that God has planned it so Should help us bear the years . 
Land , mother ! that takes right holt , kind o' like the gospel . 
How do you suppose she thought that out ? She couldn't have thought it out at her age , said Mrs. Cobb she must have just guessed it was that way . 
We know some things without bein' told , Jeremiah . 
There was considerable of it , and Miss Miranda remarked , among other things , that so absent minded a child was sure to grow up into a driveling idiot . 
She was bidden to stay away from Alice Robinson's birthday party , and doomed to wear her dress , stained and streaked as it was , until it was worn out . 
Aunt Jane six months later mitigated this martyrdom by making her a ruffled dimity pinafore , artfully shaped to conceal all the spots . 
She was blessedly ready with these mediations between the poor little sinner and the full consequences of her sin . 
When Rebecca had heard her sentence and gone to the north chamber she began to think . 
She didn't mind staying away from Alice Robinson's . 
She had told Emma Jane it would be like a picnic in a graveyard , the Robinson house being as near an approach to a tomb as a house can manage to be . 
Mrs. Robinson was not only turrible neat , but turrible close , so that the refreshments were likely to be peppermint lozenges and glasses of well water . 
After considering the relative values , as penances , of a piece of haircloth worn next the skin , and a pebble in the shoe , she dismissed them both . 
Her first experimental attempt at martyrdom had not been a distinguished success . 
She had stayed at home from the Sunday school concert , a func tion of which , in ignorance of more alluring ones , she was extremely fond . 
Self punishment , then , to be adequate and proper , must begin , like charity , at home , and unlike charity should end there too . 
Rebecca looked about the room vaguely as she sat by the window . 
She must give up something , and truth to tell she possessed little to give , hardly anything but yes , that would do , the beloved pink parasol . 
She could not hide it in the attic , for in some moment of weakness she would be sure to take it out again . 
She feared she had not the moral energy to break it into bits . 
Her eyes moved from the parasol to the apple trees in the side yard , and then fell to the well curb . 
That would do she would fling her dearest possession into the depths of the water . 
Action followed quickly upon decision , as usual . 
At the crucial instant of renunciation she was greatly helped by the reflection that she closely resembled the heathen mothers who cast their babes to the crocodiles in the Ganges . 
She slept well and arose refreshed , as a consecrated spirit always should and sometimes does . 
But there was great difficulty in drawing water after breakfast . 
Rebecca , chastened and uplifted , had gone to school . 
Abijah Flagg was summoned , lifted the well cover , explored , found the inciting cause of trouble , and with the help of Yankee wit succeeded in removing it . 
We will draw a veil over the scene that occurred after Rebecca's return from school . 
There was little to eat in the household and less to wear , though Mrs. Simpson did , as always , her poor best . 
The children managed to satisfy their appetites by sitting modestly outside their neighbors' kitchen doors when meals were about to be served . 
They were not exactly popular favorites , but they did receive certain undesirable morsels from the more charitable housewives . 
It was at this juncture that Clara Belle and Susan Simpson consulted Rebecca , who threw herself solidly and wholeheartedly into the enterprise , promising her help and that of Emma Jane Perkins . 
The premiums within their possible grasp were three a bookcase , a plush reclining chair , and a banquet lamp . 
, they warmed themselves rapturously in the vision of the banquet lamp , which speedily be came to them more desirable than food , drink , or clothing . 
Neither Emma Jane nor Rebecca perceived anything incongruous in the idea of the Simpsons striving for a banquet lamp . 
was of crinkled crepe paper printed in a dozen delicious hues , from which the joy dazzled agent might take his choice . 
Seesaw Simpson was not in the syndicate . 
There was a great amount of hilarity in the preparation for this event , and a long council in Emma Jane's attic . 
His method , when once observed , could never be forgotten nor his manner , nor his vocabulary . 
Emma Jane practiced it on Rebecca , and Rebecca on Emma Jane . 
It is made from the purest ingredients , and if desired could be eaten by an invalid with relish and profit . 
Oh , Rebecca , don't let's say that ! interposed Emma Jane hysterically . 
It makes me feel like a fool . 
The Snow White is probably the most remarkable laundry soap ever manufactured . 
BABE , not baby , corrected Rebecca from the circular . 
It's just the same thing , argued Emma Jane . 
Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence , if I can remember it We sound every chord in the great mac ro cosm of satisfaction . 
The girls called at Mr. Watson's store , and arranged for several large boxes of soap to be charged to Clara Belle Simpson's account . 
These were lifted into the back of the wagon , and a happier couple never drove along the country road than Rebecca and her companion . 
It was a glorious Indian summer day , which suggested nothing of Thanksgiving , near at hand as it was . 
It was a rustly day , a scarlet and buff , yellow and carmine , bronze and crimson day . 
There were still many leaves on the oaks and maples , making a goodly show of red and brown and gold . 
A gorgeous leaf blew into the wagon . 
Does color make you sort of dizzy ? asked Rebecca . 
No , answered Emma Jane after a long pause no , it don't not a mite . 
Perhaps dizzy isn't just the right word , but it's nearest . 
I'd like to eat color , and drink it , and sleep in it . 
I'd rather be an apple tree in blossom , that one that blooms pink , by our pig pen . 
There was always something unexpected in Emma Jane's replies . 
I'd choose to be that scarlet maple just on the edge of the pond there , and she pointed with the whip . 
Then I could see so much more than your pink apple tree by the pig pen . 
I think it would be awful homely , said Emma Jane . 
I'm going to have a white satin with a pink sash , pink stockings , bronze slippers , and a spangled fan . 
ALADDIN A single hour's experience of the vicissitudes incident to a business career clouded the children's spirits just the least bit . 
Housewives looked at Emma Jane and desired no soap listened to her description of its merits , and still desired none . 
Other stars in their courses governed Rebecca's doings . 
I haven't got over trembling from the last place yet . 
I don't know who lives here , and the blinds are all shut in front . 
If there's nobody at home you mustn't count it , but take the next house as yours . 
Rebecca walked up the lane and went to the side door . 
At all events he had an air of the city about him , well shaven face , well trimmed mustache , well fitting clothes . 
I didn't mean THAT I have some soap to sell I mean I would like to introduce to you a very remarkable soap , the best now on the market . 
It is called the Oh ! I must know that soap , said the gentleman genially . 
Made out of pure vegetable fats , isn't it ? The very purest , corroborated Rebecca . 
No acid in it ? Not a trace . 
And yet a child could do the Monday washing with it and use no force . 
Rebecca dimpled more and more , and at her new friend's invitation sat down on a stool at his side near the edge of the porch . 
The beauties of the ornamental box which held the Rose Red were disclosed , and the prices of both that and the Snow White were unfolded . 
Presently she forgot all about her silent partner at the gate and was talking as if she had known this grand personage all her life . 
I'm keeping house to day , but I don't live here , explained the delightful gentleman . 
I'm just on a visit to my aunt , who has gone to Portland . 
I used to be here as a boy . 
and I am very fond of the spot . 
The man darted a look at her and put down his ear of corn . 
I can remember mine well enough , and a particularly unpleasant one it was , said the stranger . 
So was mine , sighed Rebecca . 
What was your worst trouble ? Lack of food and clothes principally . 
Oh ! exclaimed Rebecca sympathetically , mine was no shoes and too many babies and not enough books . 
I'm doing pretty well , thank you , said the man , with a delightful smile . 
What are you going to do with the magnificent profits you get from this business ? We are not selling for our own benefit , said Rebecca confidentially . 
My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith , and doesn't need any money . 
I am poor , but I live with my aunts in a brick house , and of course they wouldn't like me to be a peddler . 
We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours . 
You needn't argue that point , laughed the man , as he stood up to get a glimpse of the rich blacksmith's daughter at the gate . 
I can see that they ought to have it if they want it , and especially if you want them to have it . 
I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp . 
Now give me the circular , and let's do some figuring . 
Well , that's all right . 
I'll take three hundred cakes , and that will give them shade and all . 
It was a very short distance , fortunately , and the amused capitalist picked her up , set her on her feet , and brushed her off . 
Oh , I could never say anything like that ! exclaimed Rebecca , who was blushing crimson at her awkward fall . 
But it doesn't seem right for you to buy so much . 
Are you sure you can afford it ? If I can't , I'll save on something else , returned the jocose philanthropist . 
What if your aunt shouldn't like the kind of soap ? queried Rebecca nervously . 
My aunt always likes what I like , he returned Mine doesn't ! exclaimed Rebecca Then there's something wrong with your aunt ! Or with me , laughed Rebecca . 
What is your name , young lady ? Rebecca Rowena Randall , sir . 
What ? with an amused smile . 
BOTH ? Your mother was generous . 
She couldn't bear to give up either of the names she says . 
Do you want to hear my name ? I think I know already , answered Rebecca , with a bright glance . 
I'm sure you must be Mr. Aladdin in the Arabian Nights . 
They gladly assented , and broke into a chorus of excited thanks during which tears of joy stood in Rebecca's eyes . 
Oh , don't mention it ! laughed Mr. Aladdin , lifting his hat . 
I was a sort of commercial traveler myself once , years ago , and I like to see the thing well done . 
Good by Miss Rebecca Rowena ! Just let me know whenever you have anything to sell , for I'm certain beforehand I shall want it . 
Good by , Mr. Aladdin ! I surely will ! cried Rebecca , tossing back her dark braids delightedly and waving her hand . 
Oh , Rebecca ! said Emma Jane in an awe struck whisper . 
He raised his hat to us , and we not thirteen ! It'll be five years before we're ladies . 
Never mind , answered Rebecca we are the BEGINNINGS of ladies , even now . 
He tucked the lap robe round us , too , continued Emma Jane , in an ecstasy of reminiscence . 
Never mind ! said Emma Jane comfortingly . 
Everybody says you're awful bright and smart , and mother thinks you'll be better looking all the time as you grow older . 
You wouldn't believe it , but I was a dreadful homely baby , and homely right along till just a year or two ago , when my red hair began to grow dark . 
What was the nice man's name ? I never thought to ask ! ejaculated Rebecca . 
Aunt Miranda would say that was just like me , and it is . 
But I called him Mr. Aladdin because he gave us a lamp . 
Rebecca sat silent with a book after the dinner dishes were washed , and when it was nearly five asked if she might go to the Simpsons' . 
What do you want to run after those Simpson children for on a Thanksgiving Day ? queried Miss Miranda . 
Can't you set still for once and listen to the improvin' conversation of your elders ? You never can let well enough alone , but want to be forever on the move . 
The Simpsons have a new lamp , and Emma Jane and I promised to go up and see it lighted , and make it a kind of a party . 
I didn't take notice , I s'pose , for it's the first time I ever heard the lamp mentioned . 
Well , you can go for an hour , and no more . 
They were your own , Rebecca , interposed aunt Jane , and if you chose to save them to give away , it is all right . 
We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for , instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies . 
The Burnham sisters nodded approvingly as Rebecca went out , and remarked that they had never seen a child grow and improve so fast in so short a time . 
There's plenty of room left for more improvement , as you'd know if she lived in the same house with you , answered Miranda . 
She's into every namable thing in the neighborhood , an' not only into it , but generally at the head an' front of it , especially when it's mischief . 
Of all the foolishness I ever heard of , that lamp beats everything it's just like those Simpsons , but I didn't suppose the children had brains enough to sell anything . 
It must have been Clara Belle , and I should never call her remarkable , answered Miss Miranda . 
Has Adam been home again ? Yes , he's been staying a few days with his aunt . 
There's no limit to the money he's making , they say and he always brings presents for all the neighbors . 
There's hope for him still , though , said Miss Jane smilingly for I don't s'pose he's more than thirty . 
He could get a wife in Riverboro if he was a hundred and thirty , remarked Miss Miranda . 
, that he declared he was going to bring her a Christmas present , continued Miss Ellen . 
Well , there's no accountin' for tastes , exclaimed Miss Miranda . 
Isn't there another Simpson girl ? asked Miss Lydia Burnham for this one couldn't have been cross eyed I remember Mrs. Ladd saying Adam remarked about this child's handsome eyes . 
He said it was her eyes that made him buy the three hundred cakes . 
Mrs. Ladd has it stacked up in the shed chamber . 
Three hundred cakes ! ejaculated Miranda . 
Well , there's one crop that never fails in Riverboro ! What's that ? asked Miss Lydia politely . 
The fool crop , responded Miranda tersely , and changed the subject , much to Jane's gratitude , for she had been nervous and ill at ease for the last fifteen minutes . 
In a moment she and Emma Jane met and exchanged a breathless embrace . 
Something awful has happened , panted Emma Jane . 
Don't tell me it's broken , exclaimed Rebecca . 
OUR selling the three hundred cakes , corrected Rebecca you did as much as I. No , I didn't , Rebecca Randall . 
I just sat at the gate and held the horse . 
Yes , but WHOSE horse was it that took us to North Riverboro ? And besides , it just happened to be my turn . 
If you had gone in and found Mr. Aladdin you would have had the wonderful lamp given to you but what's the trouble ? The Simpsons have no kerosene and no wicks . 
I guess they thought a banquet lamp was something that lighted itself , and burned without any help . 
We never thought of the expense of keeping up the lamp , Rebecca . 
No , we didn't , but let's not worry about that till after the party . 
I have a handful of nuts and raisins and some apples . 
I have peppermints and maple sugar , said Emma Jane . 
They had a real Thanksgiving dinner the doctor gave them sweet potatoes and cranberries and turnips father sent a spare rib , and Mrs. Cobb a chicken and a jar of mince meat . 
At half past five one might have looked in at the Simpsons' windows , and seen the party at its height . 
Mrs. Simpson had let the kitchen fire die out , and had brought the baby to grace the festal scene . 
The lamp seemed to be having the party , and receiving the guests . 
The children had taken the one small table in the house , and it was placed in the far corner of the room to serve as a pedestal . 
On it stood the sacred , the adored , the long desired object almost as beautiful , and nearly half as large as the advertisement . 
The brass glistened like gold , and the crimson paper shade glowed like a giant ruby . 
In the wide splash of light that it flung upon the floor sat the Simpsons , in reverent and solemn silence , Emma Jane standing behind them , hand in hand with Rebecca . 
There seemed to be no desire for conversation the occasion was too thrilling and serious for that . 
I wish father could see it , said Clara Belle loyally . 
If he onth thaw it he'd want to thwap it , murmured Susan sagaciously . 
At the appointed hour Rebecca dragged herself reluctantly away from the enchanting scene . 
I'll turn the lamp out the minute I think you and Emma Jane are home , said Clara Belle . 
And , oh ! I'm so glad you both live where you can see it shine from our windows . 
Mr. Tubbs brought it over from North Riverboro and said somebody sent an order by mail for it . 
Rebecca squeezed Emma Jane's arm , and Emma Jane gave a rapturous return squeeze . 
It was Mr. Aladdin , whispered Rebecca , as they ran down the path to the gate . 
In his dreams flashes of lightning proceeded from both her eyes , and she held a flaming sword in either hand . 
Rebecca entered the home dining room joyously . 
The Burnham sisters had gone and the two aunts were knitting . 
It was a heavenly party , she cried , taking off her hat and cape . 
Go back and see if you have shut the door tight , and then lock it , said Miss Miranda , in her usual austere manner . 
And probably it will be before long , observed Miranda . 
I've got no patience with such foolish goin's on . 
Jane accompanied Rebecca into the kitchen . 
Although the feeble glimmer which she was able to see from that distance did not seem to her a dazzling exhibition , she tried to be as enthusiastic as possible . 
Rebecca , who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to Mr. Ladd in North Riverboro ? Mr. WHO ? exclaimed Rebecca Mr. Ladd , in North Riverboro . 
Is that his real name ? queried Rebecca in astonishment . 
I didn't make a bad guess and she laughed softly to herself . 
I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd ? resumed Miss Jane . 
Adam Ladd ! then he's A. Ladd , too what fun ! Answer me , Rebecca . 
Oh ! excuse me , aunt Jane , I was so busy thinking . 
Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd . 
There can't be anything wrong this time , Rebecca answered confidently . 
Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb , and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill , and then to the Ladds' . 
That's just the way you look , for all the world as if you did have a lamp burning inside of you , sighed aunt Jane . 
Rebecca ! Rebecca ! I wish you could take things easier , child I am fearful for you sometimes . 
XVI SEASONS OF GROWTH The days flew by as summer had melted into autumn so autumn had given place to winter . 
There had been one outburst of righteous wrath occasioned by Rebecca's over hospitable habits , which were later shown in a still more dramatic and unexpected fashion . 
On a certain Friday afternoon she asked her aunt Miranda if she might take half her bread and milk upstairs to a friend . 
What friend have you got up there , for pity's sake ? demanded aunt Miranda . 
The Simpson baby , come to stay over Sunday that is , if you're willing , Mrs. Simpson says she is . 
Shall I bring her down and show her ? She's dressed in an old dress of Emma Jane's and she looks sweet . 
You can bring her down , but you can't show her to me ! You can smuggle her out the way you smuggled her in and take her back to her mother . 
There were too many , but that's not half as bad as none at all . 
Well , I'll take her back . 
She'll be dreadfully disappointed and so will Mrs. Simpson . 
She was planning to go to Milltown . 
She can un plan then , observed Miss Miranda . 
Perhaps I can go up there and take care of the baby ? suggested Rebecca . 
I brought her home so 't I could do my Saturday work just the same . 
You've got enough to do right here , without any borrowed babies to make more steps . 
Now , no answering back , just give the child some supper and carry it home where it belongs . 
I brought the Simpson baby home , aunt Jane , thinking it would help us over a dull Sunday , but aunt Miranda won't let her stay . 
Emma Jane has the promise of her next Sunday and Alice Robinson the next . 
Mrs. Simpson wanted I should have her first because I've had so much experience in babies . 
Oh dear ! I wish I could have a printed book with everything set down in it that I COULD do , and then I wouldn't get disappointed so often . 
No book could be printed that would fit you , Rebecca , answered aunt Jane , for nobody could imagine beforehand the things you'd want to do . 
Are you going to carry that heavy child home in your arms ? No , I'm going to drag her in the little soap wagon . 
Come , baby ! Take your thumb out of your mouth and come to ride with Becky in your go cart . 
to the bureau , selected a large safety pin , and proceeded to attach her brief red flannel petticoat to a sort of shirt that she wore . 
I should think you'd be fonder of dolls than you are , said Jane . 
Babies are more trouble , but nicer . 
Miss Jane stretched out a thin hand with a slender , worn band of gold on the finger , and the baby curled her dimpled fingers round it and held it fast . 
You wear a ring on your engagement finger , don't you , aunt Jane ? Did you ever think about getting married ? Yes , dear , long ago . 
What happened , aunt Jane ? He died just before . 
Oh ! And Rebecca's eyes grew misty . 
He was a soldier and he died of a gunshot wound , in a hospital , down South . 
Oh ! aunt Jane ! softly . 
Away from you ? No , I was with him . 
Was he young ? Yes young and brave and handsome , Rebecca he was Mr. Carter's brother Tom . 
It had looked into another heart , felt it beat , and heard it sigh and that is how all hearts grow . 
Life , however , could never be thoroughly dull or lacking in adventure to a child of Rebecca's temperament . 
Her nature was full of adaptability , fluidity , receptivity . 
She made friends everywhere she went , and snatched up acquaintances in every corner . 
She loved Emma Jane , but it was a friendship born of propinquity and circumstance , not of true affinity . 
With Dick Carter she could at least talk intelligently about lessons . 
Uncle Jerry and aunt Sarah Cobb were dear friends of quite another sort , a very satisfying and perhaps a somewhat dangerous one . 
A visit from Rebecca always sent them into a twitter of delight . 
Here she was happy , here she was loved , here she was drawn out of herself and admired and made much of . 
Life had now a motive utterly lacking before . 
Rebecca's idea of being a painter like her friend Miss Ross was gradually receding , owing to the apparently insuperable difficulties in securing any instruction . 
She had the matter under advisement , but a doubt as to whether or not she would sell or rent her hayfields kept her from coming to a conclusion . 
The news from Sunnybrook Farm was hopeful rather than otherwise . 
Cousin Ann's husband had died , and John , Rebecca's favorite brother , had gone to be the man of the house to the widowed cousin . 
Randall's , feet , and Miss Rebecca Randall sitting in a black silk dress by his side . 
Hannah now wore her hair in a coil and her dresses a trifle below her ankles , these concessions being due to her extreme height . 
Mark had broken his collar bone , but it was healing well . 
Little Mira was growing very pretty . 
Mrs. Randall refused to consider any improvement in their financial condition as a possibility . 
The first milestone was Christmas Day . 
It was a fresh , crystal morning , with icicles hanging like dazzling pendants from the trees and a glaze of pale blue on the surface of the snow . 
The Simpsons' red barn stood out , a glowing mass of color in the white landscape . 
Success had been achieved , however , and the precious packet had been sent by post two days previous . 
It was very simply made , but the color delighted the eye . 
Then there was a beautiful tatting collar from her mother , some scarlet mittens from Mrs. Cobb , and a handkerchief from Emma Jane . 
There was a knock at the door at breakfast time , and Rebecca , answering it , was asked by a boy if Miss Rebecca Randall lived there . 
On being told that she did , he handed her a parcel bearing her name , a parcel which she took like one in a dream and bore into the dining room . 
It's a present it must be , she said , looking at it in a dazed sort of way but I can't think who it could be from . 
A good way to find out would be to open it , remarked Miss Miranda . 
The parcel being untied proved to have two smaller packages within , and Rebecca opened with trembling fingers the one addressed to her . 
Anybody's fingers would have trembled . 
There was a case which , when the cover was lifted , disclosed a long chain of delicate pink coral beads , a chain ending in a cross made of coral rosebuds . 
A card with Merry Christmas from Mr. Aladdin lay under the cross . 
Of all things ! exclaimed the two old ladies , rising in their seats . 
Who sent it ? Mr. Ladd , said Rebecca under her breath . 
What's the other package ? It proved to be a silver chain with a blue enamel locket on it , marked for Emma Jane . 
I have always noticed when I give this sort of thing that people love it , so I hope I have not chosen wrong for you and your friend . 
My aunt is delighted with the soap . 
Sincerely your friend , Adam Ladd . 
Well , well ! cried Miss Jane , isn't that kind of him ? He's very fond of children , Lyddy Burnham says . 
At this moment , though her joy was too deep for words , her bread and butter almost choked her , and at intervals a tear stole furtively down her cheek . 
Mr. Ladd called as he promised , and made the acquaintance of the aunts , understanding them both in five minutes as well as if he had known them for years . 
On a footstool near the open fire sat Rebecca , silent and shy , so conscious of her fine apparel and the presence of aunt Miranda that she could not utter a word . 
It was one of her beauty days . 
Another milestone was the departure of the Simpsons from Riverboro , bag and baggage , the banquet lamp being their most conspicuous posses sion . 
No money changed hands in the operation for the minister succeeded in getting the lamp in return for an old bicycle . 
The year was notable also as being the one in which Rebecca shot up like a young tree . 
There was another milestone , a sad one , marking a little grave under a willow tree at Sunnybrook Farm . 
Mira , the baby of the Randall family , died , and Rebecca went home for a fortnight's visit . 
It was a sorrowful home coming for Rebecca . 
Hannah seemed to have grown into a woman during Rebecca's absence . 
There had always been a strange unchildlike air about Hannah , but in certain ways she now appeared older than aunt Jane soberer , and more settled . 
She was pretty , though in a colorless fashion pretty and capable . 
Rebecca walked through all the old playgrounds and favorite haunts of her early childhood all her familiar , her secret places some of them known to John , some to herself alone . 
The dear little sunny brook , her chief companion after John , was sorry company at this season . 
There was no laughing water sparkling in the sunshine . 
In summer the merry stream had danced over white pebbles on its way to deep pools where it could be still and think . 
It was all right ! Sunnybrook would sing again in the spring perhaps Mira too would have her singing time somewhere she wondered where and how . 
In the course of these lonely rambles she was ever thinking , thinking , of one subject . 
Hannah had never had a chance never been freed from the daily care and work of the farm . 
She , Rebecca , had enjoyed all the privileges thus far . 
Riverboro had not been the world itself , but it had been a glimpse of it through a tiny peephole that was infinitely better than nothing . 
Rebecca shed more than one quiet tear before she could trust herself to offer up as a sacrifice that which she so much desired for herself . 
Aunt Miranda has always wanted you , and it's only fair you should have your turn . 
Hannah was darning stockings , and she threaded her needle and snipped off the yarn before she answered , No , thank you , Becky . 
Mother couldn't do without me , and I hate going to school . 
I can read and write and cipher as well as anybody now , and that's enough for me . 
I'd die rather than teach school for a living . 
Then there's going to be a singing school and a social circle in Temperance after New Year's , and I shall have a real good time now I'm grown up . 
I'm not one to be lonesome , Becky , Hannah ended with a blush I love this place . 
Rebecca saw that she was speaking the truth , but she did not understand the blush till a year or two later . 
This was the coming to Riverboro of the Reverend Amos Burch and wife , returned missionaries from Syria . 
The Aid Society had called its meeting for a certain Wednesday in March of the year in which Rebecca ended her Riverboro school days and began her studies at Wareham . 
It was a raw , blustering day , snow on the ground and a look in the sky of more to follow . 
This Mr. Burch , if I remember right , used to know your grandfather Sawyer , and stayed here once when he was candidatin' . 
He'll mebbe look for us there , and you must just go and represent the family , an' give him our respects . 
Be careful how you behave . 
Anything interested her , even a village missionary meeting , and the idea of representing the family was rather intoxicating . 
The service was held in the Sunday school room , and although the Rev . 
Mr. Burch was on the platform when Rebecca entered , there were only a dozen persons present . 
Both my aunts had bad colds , she said softly , and sent me to represent the family . 
That's Mrs. Burch on the platform with her husband , whispered Mrs. Robinson . 
She's awful tanned up , ain't she ? If you're goin' to save souls seems like you hev' to part with your complexion . 
She was dressed in a well worn black silk , and looked so tired that Rebecca's heart went out to her . 
They're poor as Job's turkey , whispered Mrs. Robinson but if you give 'em anything they'd turn right round and give it to the heathen . 
Eudoxy ain't comin' now for massy's sake , Rebecca , do git ahead of Mis' Deacon Milliken and pitch real low . 
The meeting began with prayer and then the Rev . 
Gentiles and kings thy light shall view , And shall admire and love thee too They come , like clouds across the sky , As doves that to their windows fly . 
Is there any one present who will assist us at the instrument ? he asked unexpectedly . 
Everybody looked at everybody else , and nobody moved then there came a voice out of a far corner saying informally , Rebecca , why don't you ? It was Mrs. Cobb . 
The talk that ensued was much the usual sort of thing . 
But he did more than this . 
Rebecca sat entranced , having been given the key of another world . 
What stories they must know , those children born under Syrian skies ! Then she was called upon to play Jesus shall reign where'er the sun . 
The contribution box was passed and Mr. Burch prayed . 
If any of the sisters will provide entertainment , he said , Mrs. Burch and I will remain among you to night and to morrow . 
In that event we could hold a parlor meeting . 
My wife and one of my children would wear the native costume , we would display some specimens of Syrian handiwork , and give an account of our educational methods with the children . 
A pall of silence settled over the little assembly . 
There was some cogent reason why every sister there was disinclined for company . 
Mrs. Burch's thin hands fingered her black silk nervously . 
Would no one speak ! thought Rebecca , her heart fluttering with sympathy . 
Mrs. Robinson leaned over and whispered significantly , The missionaries always used to be entertained at the brick house your grand father never would let 'em sleep anywheres else when he was alive . 
She meant this for a stab at Miss Miranda's parsimony , remembering the four spare chambers , closed from January to December but Rebecca thought it was intended as a suggestion . 
They sent their respects by me . 
Mrs. Perkins followed she had several petitions at her command , good sincere ones too , but a little cut and dried , made of scripture texts laboriously woven together . 
Mrs. Cobb's excited breathing could be heard distinctly in the silence . 
There was nothing extraordinary in Mr. Burch's request . 
In his journeyings among country congregations he was constantly in the habit of meeting young members who had experienced religion and joined the church when nine or ten years old . 
Her mind was a maze of pictures that the Rev . 
Mr. Burch had flung on the screen . 
She knew the conventional phraseology , of course what New England child , accustomed to Wednesday evening meetings , does not ? But her own secret prayers were different . 
However , she began slowly and tremulously Our Father who art in Heaven , . 
Thou art God in Syria just the same as in Maine . 
over there to day are blue skies and yellow stars and burning suns . 
the great trees are waving in the warm air , while here the snow lies thick under our feet , . 
but no distance is too far for God to travel and so He is with us here as He is with them there , . 
and our thoughts rise to Him as doves that to their windows fly . 
We cannot all be missionaries , teaching people to be good , . 
those who are old and tired and those who are young and strong . 
But perhaps we have to stay at home and do what is given us to do . 
sometimes even things we dislike , . 
but that must be what it means in the hymn we sang , when it talked about the sweet perfume that rises with every morning sacrifice . 
The Amen said , she sat down , or presumed she sat down , on what she believed to be a bench , and there was a benediction . 
Will half past five be too late for us to come ? It is three now , and we have to go to the station for our valise and for our children . 
We left them there , being uncertain whether we should go back or stop here . 
Rebecca said that half past five was their supper hour , and then accepted an invitation to drive home with Mrs. Cobb . 
Her face was flushed and her lip quivered in a way that aunt Sarah had learned to know , so the homeward drive was taken almost in silence . 
The bleak wind and aunt Sarah's quieting presence brought her back to herself , however , and she entered the brick house cheerily . 
There are your shoes warming by the fire , said aunt Jane . 
Slip them right on while you talk . 
I hope you won't mind . 
Coming here ! exclaimed Miranda , letting her knitting fall in her lap , and taking her spectacles off , as she always did in moments of extreme excitement . 
Did they invite themselves ? No , Rebecca answered . 
I had to invite them for you but I thought you'd like to have such interesting company . 
It was this way Stop your explainin' , and tell me first when they'll be here . 
Right away ? No , not for two hours about half past five . 
Don't blame her , Miranda , till you've heard her story , said Jane . 
It was in my mind right along , if we went to the meeting , some such thing might happen , on account of Mr. Burch knowing father . 
Then he waited and waited , and nobody said a word . 
I was so mortified I didn't know what to do . 
And then he repeated what he said , an explained why he wanted to stay , and you could see he thought it was his duty . 
I didn't know you had stopped having them . 
because no traveling ministers have been here , except just for a Sunday morning , since I came to Riverboro . 
So I thought I ought to invite them , as you weren't there to do it for yourself , and you told me to represent the family . 
What did you do go up and introduce yourself as folks was goin' out ? No I stood right up in meeting . 
I had to , for Mr. Burch's feelings were getting hurt at nobody's speaking . 
Sometimes , when the heavenly bodies are in just the right conjunction , nature seems to be the most perfect art . 
The word or the deed coming straight from the heart , without any thought of effect , seems inspired . 
A certain gateway in Miranda Sawyer's soul had been closed for years not all at once had it been done , but gradually , and without her full knowledge . 
All things had worked together amazingly for good . 
Well , I see you did only what you was obliged to do , Rebecca , she said , and you worded your invitation as nice as anybody could have done . 
There was half a dozen there that might have entertained the Burches as easy as not , if they hadn't 'a' been too mean or lazy . 
Why didn't your missionaries come right along with you ? They had to go to the station for their valise and their children . 
Are there children ? groaned Miranda . 
Yes , aunt Miranda , all born under Syrian skies . 
Now , as you're both half sick , couldn't you trust me just once to get ready for the company ? You can come up when I call . 
Will you ? I believe I will , sighed Miranda reluctantly . 
I'll lay down side o' Jane in our bedroom and see if I can get strength to cook supper . 
It's half past three don't you let me lay a minute past five . 
I kep' a good fire in the kitchen stove . 
I don't know , I'm sure , why I should have baked a pot o' beans in the middle of the week , but they'll come in handy . 
Father used to say there was nothing that went right to the spot with returned missionaries like pork 'n' beans 'n' brown bread . 
Fix up the two south chambers , Rebecca . 
Rebecca , given a free hand for the only time in her life , dashed upstairs like a whirlwind . 
There was nothing to disapprove , so the two sisters went downstairs to make some slight changes in their dress . 
As they passed the parlor door Miranda thought she heard a crackle and looked in . 
The shades were up , there was a cheerful blaze in the open stove in the front parlor , and a fire laid on the hearth in the back room . 
For massy's sake , Rebecca , called Miss Miranda up the stairs , did you think we'd better open the parlor ? Rebecca came out on the landing braiding her hair . 
We did on Thanksgiving and Christmas , and I thought this was about as great an occasion , she said . 
Brother Milliken's coming over to see Mr. Burch about business , and I shouldn't wonder if Brother and Sister Cobb happened in . 
Don't go down cellar , I'll be there in a minute to do the running . 
Miranda and Jane exchanged glances . 
, were curious almost to desperation . 
Shades up in both parlors ! Shades up in the two south bedrooms ! And fires if human vision was to be relied on fires in about every room . 
The missionary party arrived promptly , and there were but two children , seven or eight having been left with the brethren in Portland , to diminish traveling expenses . 
There was a bountiful supper , and the presence of the young people robbed it of all possible stiffness . 
, and putting coffee grounds in the sink . 
time enough to breathe , and then the Burches told strange , beautiful , marvelous things . 
You know where they be . 
Rebecca moved quietly towards the door , and the young Burches cataracted after her as if they could not bear a second's separation . 
Old Deacon Israel had always had it passed , and he had bought the glasses himself in Boston . 
Miranda admired them greatly , not only for their beauty but because they held so little . 
Before their advent the dandelion wine had been served in sherry glasses . 
XX A CHANGE OF HEART That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years , said Mr. Burch when the door closed . 
She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately , but she's consid'able heedless , answered Miranda , an' most too lively . 
We must remember that it is deficient , not excessive vitality , that makes the greatest trouble in this world , returned Mr. Burch . 
She'd make a wonderful missionary , said Mrs. Burch with her voice , and her magnetism , and her gift of language . 
If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for , I'd say she'd make a better heathen , remarked Miranda curtly . 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer . 
She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev . 
Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to lead . 
She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question , but it served her turn . 
Deacon Milliken , meantime , said to Miss Sawyer , Mirandy , do you know who Rebecky reminds me of ? I can guess pretty well , she replied . 
I don't see how you make that out , said Miranda , thoroughly astonished . 
It struck me this afternoon when she got up to give your invitation in meetin' . 
It was kind o' cur'ous , but she set in the same seat he used to when he was leader o' the Sabbath school . 
the family retired for the night . 
I hadn't the courage to say I had never done it out loud and didn't know how . 
I couldn't think and I was so frightened I wanted to sink into the floor . 
Mrs. Burch bent and kissed her good night . 
Don't be troubled , she said . 
I'll tell Mr. Burch , and I guess God will understand . 
Rebecca waked before six the next morning , so full of household cares that sleep was impossible . 
She went to the window and looked out it was still dark , and a blustering , boisterous day . 
I believe I'll creep down and start things for a surprise . 
Contrary to expectation , Miss Jane , who the evening before felt better than Miranda , grew worse in the night , and was wholly unable to leave her bed in the morning . 
Jane lay anxiously and restlessly in bed with a feverish headache , wondering how her sister could manage without her . 
She opened the kitchen door and stared vaguely about her , wondering whether she had strayed into the wrong house by mistake . 
The coffee pot was scalding , the coffee was measured out in a bowl , and broken eggshells for the settling process were standing near . 
The cold potatoes and corned beef were in the wooden tray , and Regards of Rebecca stuck on the chopping knife . 
TO MARY AND MARTHA BURCH Born under Syrian skies , 'Neath hotter suns than ours The children grew and bloomed , Like little tropic flowers . 
When they first saw the light , 'T was in a heathen land . 
Not Greenland's icy mountains , Nor India's coral strand , But some mysterious country Where men are nearly black And where of true religion , There is a painful lack . 
Then let us haste in helping The Missionary Board , Seek dark skinned unbelievers , And teach them of their Lord . 
It can readily be seen that this visit of the returned missionaries to Riverboro was not without somewhat far reaching results . 
Mr. and Mrs. Burch themselves looked back upon it as one of the rarest pleasures of their half year at home . 
The neighborhood extracted considerable eager conversation from it argument , rebuttal , suspicion , certainty , retrospect , and prophecy . 
Deacon Milliken gave ten dollars towards the conversion of Syria to Congregationalism , and Mrs. Milliken had a spell of sickness over her husband's rash generosity . 
It would be pleasant to state that Miranda Sawyer was an entirely changed woman afterwards , but that is not the fact . 
The tree that has been getting a twist for twenty years cannot be straightened in the twinkling of an eye . 
Failure as he was , complete and entire , he had generously handed down to her all that was best in himself , and prudently retained all that was unworthy . 
Few fathers are capable of such delicate discrimination . 
Bear figs for a season or two , and the world outside the orchard is very unwilling you should bear thistles . 
The effect of the Burches' visit on Rebecca is not easily described . 
It is only when one has grown old and dull that the soul is heavy and refuses to rise . 
The young soul is ever winged a breath stirs it to an upward flight . 
Rebecca was asked to bear witness to a state of mind or feeling of whose existence she had only the vaguest consciousness . 
She obeyed , and as she uttered words they became true in the uttering as she voiced aspirations they settled into realities . 
As dove that to its window flies , her spirit soared towards a great light , dimly discovered at first , but brighter as she came closer to it . 
To become sensible of oneness with the Divine heart before any sense of separation has been felt , this is surely the most beautiful way for the child to find God . 
XXI THE SKY LINE WIDENS The time so long and eagerly waited for had come , and Rebecca was a student at Wareham . 
This would seem a difficult , well nigh an impossible task , but it can be achieved , and has been , at other seats of learning than modest little Wareham . 
Rebecca was to go to and fro on the cars daily from September to Christmas , and then board in Wareham during the three coldest months . 
would serve every purpose for their daughter and send her into the world with as fine an intellectual polish as she could well sustain . 
Emma Jane had hitherto heartily concurred in this opinion , for if there was any one thing that she detested it was the learning of lessons . 
She bore it for a week seven endless days of absence from the beloved object , whom she could see only in the evenings when both were busy with their lessons . 
Sunday offered an opportunity to put the matter before her father , who proved obdurate . 
He didn't believe in education and thought she had full enough already . 
Emma Jane pined visibly and audibly . 
Her color faded , and her appetite dwindled almost to nothing . 
Neither did her courage flag , although it was put to terrific tests when she entered the academic groves of Wareham . 
Wareham was a pretty village with a broad main street shaded by great maples and elms . 
There was an opportunity for a deal of foolish and imprudent behavior , but on the whole surprisingly little advantage was taken of it . 
She was friendly enough with Emma Jane and Rebecca , but grew less and less intimate as time went on . 
She had merry eyes , a somewhat too plump figure for her years , and was popularly supposed to have a fascinating way with her . 
Riverboro being poorly furnished with beaux , she intended to have as good a time during her four years at Wareham as circumstances would permit . 
There was little in the lads she had met thus far to awaken her fancy , for it habitually fed on better meat . 
Huldah's school girl romances , with their wealth of commonplace detail , were not the stuff her dreams were made of , when dreams did flutter across the sensitive plate of her mind . 
Among the teachers at Wareham was one who influenced Rebecca profoundly , Miss Emily Maxwell , with whom she studied English literature and composition . 
You'll like her she writes , whispered Huldah to Rebecca the first morning at prayers , where the faculty sat in an imposing row on the front seats . 
She writes and I call her stuck up . 
Rebecca lingered after the others , and approached the desk shyly . 
I haven't any compositions here , Miss Maxwell , but I can find one when I go home on Friday . 
They are packed away in a box in the attic . 
Carefully tied with pink and blue ribbons ? asked Miss Maxwell , with a whimsical smile . 
Did you choose your own subject ? No Miss Dearborn thought we were not old enough to find good ones . 
What were some of the others ? Fireside Reveries , Grant as a Soldier , Reflections on the Life of P. T. Barnum , Buried Cities I can't remember any more now . 
They were all bad , and I can't bear to show them I can write poetry easier and better , Miss Maxwell . 
Did Miss Dearborn require you to do it ? Oh , no I always did it even at the farm . 
Shall I bring all I have ? It isn't much . 
The room was quiet the red leaves rustled in the breeze and flew in at the open window , bearing the first compliments of the season . 
Miss Maxwell came and sat by Rebecca's side on the bench . 
Did you think these were good ? she asked , giving her the verses . 
Not so very , confessed Rebecca but it's hard to tell all by yourself . 
This ingenuous remark confirmed Miss Maxwell's opinion of Rebecca as a girl who could hear the truth and profit by it . 
Well , my child , she said smilingly , your friends were wrong and you were right judged by the proper tests , they are pretty bad . 
Don't go so fast , interrupted Miss Maxwell . 
Though they don't amount to anything as poetry , they show a good deal of promise in certain direc tions . 
You almost never make a mistake in rhyme or metre , and this shows you have a natural sense of what is right a sense of form , poets would call it . 
When you grow older , have a little more experience , in fact , when you have something to say , I think you may write very good verses . 
Poetry needs knowledge and vision , experience and imagination , Rebecca . 
You have not the first three yet , but I rather think you have a touch of the last . 
Must I never try any more poetry , not even to amuse myself ? Certainly you may it will only help you to write better prose . 
Now for the first composition . 
I am going to ask all the new students to write a letter giving some description of the town and a hint of the school life . 
Shall I have to be myself ? asked Rebecca . 
Very well I think that's a delightful plan , said Miss Maxwell and whom will you suppose yourself to be ? I like heiresses very much , replied Rebecca contemplatively . 
Of course I never saw one , but interesting things are always happening to heiresses , especially to the golden haired kind . 
My heiress wouldn't be vain and haughty like the wicked sisters in Cinderella she would be noble and generous . 
She would give up a grand school in Boston because she wanted to come here where her father lived when he was a boy , long before he made his fortune . 
Yes , the girl shall be called Evelyn Abercrombie , and her guardian's name shall be Mr. Adam Ladd . 
Do you know Mr. Ladd ? asked Miss Maxwell in surprise . 
Yes , he's my very best friend , cried Rebecca delightedly . 
Do you know him too ? Oh , yes he is a trustee of these schools , you know , and often comes here . 
But if I let you suppose' any more , you will tell me your whole letter and then I shall lose a pleasant surprise . 
What Rebecca thought of Miss Maxwell we already know how the teacher regarded the pupil may be gathered from the following letter written two or three months later . 
Wareham , December st My Dear Father , As you well know , I have not always been an enthusiast on the subject of teaching . 
The task of cramming knowledge into these self sufficient , inefficient youngsters of both sexes discourages me at times . 
The more stupid they are , the less they are aware of it . 
She is nobody in particular . 
in mud knowing that if anything comes up at all it will be some poor starveling plant . 
Good by I'll bring Rebecca home with me some Friday , and let you and mother see her for yourselves . 
Your affectionate daughter , Emily . 
XXII CLOVER BLOSSOMS AND SUNFLOWERS How d' ye do , girls ? said Huldah Meserve , peeping in at the door . 
It's your first year here , and you're younger than I am , so I s'pose you don't mind , but I simply suffer if I don't keep up some kind of style . 
When I graduate , I'm going to fix up our parlor at home so it'll be simply regal . 
I had such a fuss getting this pair of French heeled boots that I don't intend to spoil the looks of them with rubbers any oftener than I can help . 
I believe boys notice feet quicker than anything . 
I used to think mine was almost a deformity , but they say it's a great beauty . 
Just put your feet beside mine , girls , and look at the difference not that I care much , but just for fun . 
My feet are very comfortable where they are , responded Rebecca dryly . 
Perhaps I am a little mite conscious of them , because they're not so very comfortable at first , till you get them broken in . 
Say , haven't you got a lot of new things ? Our Christmas presents , you mean , said Emma Jane . 
The pillow cases are from Mrs. Cobb , the rug from cousin Mary in North Riverboro , the scrap basket from Living and Dick . 
We gave each other the bureau and cushion covers , and the screen is mine from Mr. Ladd . 
Well , you were lucky when you met him ! Gracious ! I wish I could meet somebody like that . 
I don't see how you managed to get this good room when you're such new scholars , she finished discontentedly . 
We shouldn't have , except that Ruth Berry had to go away suddenly on account of her father's death . 
This room was empty , and Miss Maxwell asked if we might have it , returned Emma Jane . 
The great and only Max is more stiff and standoffish than ever this year , said Huldah . 
I wanted to tell her yesterday it was her place to teach me Latin , not manners . 
I wish you wouldn't talk against Miss Maxwell to me , said Rebecca hotly . 
You know how I feel . 
I know but I can't understand how you can abide her . 
I not only abide , I love her ! exclaimed Rebecca . 
I wouldn't let the sun shine too hot on her , or the wind blow too cold . 
Isn't this your study hour ? asked Emma Jane , to stop possible discussion . 
Yes , but I lost my Latin grammar yesterday I left it in the hall half an hour while I was having a regular scene with Herbert Dunn . 
I haven't spoken to him for a week and gave him back his class pin . 
Then when I came back to the hall , the book was gone . 
I had to go down town for my gloves and to the principal's office to see if the grammar had been handed in , and that's the reason I'm so fine . 
Huldah was wearing a woolen dress that had once been gray , but had been dyed a brilliant blue . 
She had added three rows of white braid and large white pearl buttons to her gray jacket , in order to make it a little more dressy . 
Her gray felt hat had a white feather on it , and a white tissue veil with large black dots made her delicate skin look brilliant . 
Rebecca thought how lovely the knot of red hair looked under the hat behind , and how the color of the front had been dulled by incessant frizzing with curling irons . 
These decorations proved her popularity in very much the same way as do the cotillion favors hanging on the bedroom walls of the fashionable belle . 
He was rather snippy about my leaving a book in the hall . 
There was a perfectly elegant gentleman in the office , a stranger to me . 
I wish he was a new teacher , but there's no such luck . 
He looked at me about every minute I was in the room . 
It made me so embarrassed I couldn't hardly answer Mr. Morrison's questions straight . 
You'll have to wear a mask pretty soon , if you're going to have any comfort , Huldah , said Rebecca . 
He wore no jewelry but a cameo scarf pin and a perfectly gorgeous ring , a queer kind of one that wound round and round his finger . 
Oh dear , I must run ! Where has the hour gone ? There's the study bell ! Rebecca had pricked up her ears at Huldah's speech . 
who appealed to her imagination , Mr. Aladdin . 
Her feeling for him , and that of Emma Jane , was a mixture of romantic and reverent admiration for the man himself and the liveliest gratitude for his beautiful gifts . 
Since they first met him not a Christmas had gone by without some remembrance for them both remembrances chosen with the rarest taste and forethought . 
Emma Jane had seen him only twice , but he had called several times at the brick house , and Rebecca had learned to know him better . 
It was she , too , who always wrote the notes of acknowledgment and thanks , taking infinite pains to make Emma Jane's quite different from her own . 
This first winter was , in fact , the most tranquilly happy of Rebecca's school life , a winter long to be looked back upon . 
She and Emma Jane were room mates , and had put their modest possessions together to make their surroundings pretty and homelike . 
The room had , to begin with , a cheerful red ingrain carpet and a set of maple furniture . 
As to the rest , Rebecca had furnished the ideas and Emma Jane the materials and labor , a method of dividing responsibilities that seemed to suit the circumstances admirably . 
Mrs. Perkins's father had been a storekeeper , and on his death had left the goods of which he was possessed to his married daughter . 
The molasses , vinegar , and kerosene had lasted the family for five years , and the Perkins attic was still a treasure house of ginghams , cottons , and Yankee notions . 
So at Rebecca's instigation Mrs. Perkins had made full curtains and lambrequins of unbleached muslin , which she had trimmed and looped back with bands of Turkey red cotton . 
There were two table covers to match , and each of the girls had her study corner . 
The day of Huldah's call was Friday , and on Fridays from three to half past four Rebecca was free to take a pleasure to which she looked forward the entire week . 
The distracted Emma Jane had refused to leave without her , and had run from the station to look for her at Miss Maxwell's . 
When she had read for half an hour she glanced out of the window and saw two figures issuing from the path through the woods . 
The knot of bright hair and the coquettish hat could belong to but one person and her companion , as the couple approached , proved to be none other than Mr. Aladdin . 
Huldah was lifting her skirts daintily and picking safe stepping places for the high heeled shoes , her cheeks glowing , her eyes sparkling under the black and white veil . 
Rebecca slipped from her post by the window to the rug before the bright fire and leaned her head on the seat of the great easy chair . 
She was frightened at the storm in her heart at the suddenness with which it had come on , as well as at the strangeness of an entirely new sensation . 
Who is us' ? The aunts are not here , are they ? Oh , you mean the rich blacksmith's daughter , whose name I can never remember . 
Is she here ? Yes , and my room mate , answered Rebecca , who thought her own knell of doom had sounded , if he had forgotten Emma Jane's name . 
Well , little Miss Rebecca , he said , rousing himself at length , I must be thinking of my drive to Portland . 
There is a meeting of railway directors there to morrow , and I always take this opportunity of visiting the school and giving my valuable advice concerning its affairs , educational and financial . 
It seems funny for you to be a school trustee , said Rebecca contemplatively . 
I can't seem to make it fit . 
That was a long time ago ! Let me see , I am thirty two only thirty two , despite an occasional gray hair . 
It made Rebecca feel old , experienced , and maternal . 
She longed on the instant to comfort and strengthen such a tender young thing . 
Oh , what a sweet , sweet , flowery face ! she whispered softly . 
The flower had to bear all sorts of storms , said Adam gravely . 
The bitter weather of the world bent its slender stalk , bowed its head , and dragged it to the earth . 
I was only a child and could do nothing to protect and nourish it , and there was no one else to stand between it and trouble . 
Now I have success and money and power , all that would have kept her alive and happy , and it is too late . 
She died for lack of love and care , nursing and cherishing , and I can never forget it . 
This explained the tired look in his eyes , the look that peeped out now and then , under all his gay speech and laughter . 
Mustn't she have been happy ! I wish she could have been kept so , and had lived to see you grow up strong and good . 
My mother is always sad and busy , but once when she looked at John I heard her say , He makes up for everything . 
That's what your mother would have thought about you if she had lived , and perhaps she does as it is . 
You are a comforting little person , Rebecca , said Adam , rising from his chair . 
As Rebecca rose , the tears still trembling on her lashes , he looked at her suddenly as with new vision . 
Adam put a finger under Rebecca's chin and looked into her eyes eyes as soft , as clear , as unconscious , and childlike as they had been when she was ten . 
XXIII THE HILL DIFFICULTY The first happy year at Wareham , with its widened sky line , its larger vision , its greater opportunity , was over and gone . 
She can be perfectly ignorant of a subject , said Miss Maxwell to Adam Ladd , but entirely intelligent the moment she has a clue . 
Most of the other girls are full of information and as stupid as sheep . 
Rebecca's gifts had not been discovered save by the few , during the first year , when she was adjusting herself quietly to the situation . 
She was distinctly one of the poorer girls she had no fine dresses to attract attention , no visitors , no friends in the town . 
She had more study hours , and less time , therefore , for the companionship of other girls , gladly as she would have welcomed the gayety of that side of school life . 
I only wish I was tall and dark and had the gift of making people believe I was great things , like Rebecca Randall . 
There's one thing though the boys call her handsome , you notice they don't trouble her with much attention . 
Rebecca was full of small anxieties and fears , for matters were not going well at the brick house and were anything but hopeful at the home farm . 
She was overbusy and overtaxed , and her thoughts were naturally drawn towards the difficult problems of daily living . 
One Saturday Rebecca ran upstairs and , bursting into a flood of tears , exclaimed , Aunt Jane , it seems as if I never could stand her continual scoldings . 
You must be patient , she said , wiping first her own eyes and then Rebecca's . 
I haven't told you , for it isn't fair you should be troubled when you're studying so hard , but your aunt Miranda isn't well . 
Seems to me she's failing right along , and that's what makes her so fretful and easy vexed . 
She has other troubles too , that you don't know anything about , and if you're not kind to your aunt Miranda now , child , you'll be dreadful sorry some time . 
All the temper faded from Rebecca's face , and she stopped crying to say penitently , Oh ! the poor dear thing ! I won't mind a bit what she says now . 
She's just asked me for some milk toast and I was dreading to take it to her , but this will make everything different . 
Don't worry yet , aunt Jane , for perhaps it won't be as bad as you think . 
Now , aunt Miranda , she said cheerily , I expect you to smack your lips and say this is good it's not Randall , but Sawyer milk toast . 
You've tried all kinds on me , one time an' another , Miranda answered . 
This tastes real kind o' good but I wish you hadn't wasted that nice geranium . 
I've seen geraniums cry , in the very early morning ! The mysterious trouble to which Jane had alluded was a very real one , but it was held in profound secrecy . 
The family friend had been dead for some five years , but his son had succeeded to his interests and all went on as formerly . 
Can we possibly go on doing it ? Shan't we have to give up and tell her why ? asked Jane tearfully of the elder sister . 
She's Aurelia's only hope for years to come , to my way o' thinkin' . 
Hannah's beau takes all her time 'n' thought , and when she gits a husband her mother'll be out o' sight and out o' mind . 
No , Jane we'll skimp 'n' do without , 'n' plan to git along on our interest money somehow , but we won't break into our principal , whatever happens . 
Rebecca , who knew nothing of their business affairs , merely saw her aunts grow more and more saving , pinching here and there , cutting off this and that relentlessly . 
There was , however , no concealing the state of things at Sunnybrook , where chapters of accidents had unfolded themselves in a sort of serial story that had run through the year . 
The potato crop had failed there were no apples to speak of the hay had been poor Aurelia had turns of dizziness in her head Mark had broken his ankle . 
As this was his fourth offense , Miranda inquired how many bones there were in the human body , so 't they'd know when Mark got through breakin' 'em . 
She's Susan Randall through and through ! ejaculated Miranda . 
I was glad to see her face turned towards Temperance . 
I stayed to tea with Miss Maxwell , but came home early to tell you . 
You are joking , Becky ! faltered Emma Jane , looking up from her work . 
Not a bit the senior editor read it and thought it highly instructive it appears in the next issue . 
Not in the same number with your poem about the golden gates that close behind us when we leave school ? and Emma Jane held her breath as she awaited the reply . 
Even so , Miss Perkins . 
It would be perfectly elergant ! I'd like nothing better , if I hadn't promised to keep house for John , replied Rebecca . 
He won't have a house for a good many years , will he ? No , sighed Rebecca ruefully , flinging herself down by the table and resting her head on her hand . 
Not unless we can contrive to pay off that detestable mortgage . 
The day grows farther off instead of nearer now that we haven't paid the interest this year . 
The weariness is mutual , Rebecca Randall cried I would I'd never gazed upon your face ! A note has a face , observed Emma Jane , who was gifted in arithmetic . 
I didn't know that a mortgage had . 
Our mortgage has , said Rebecca revengefully . 
I should know him if I met him in the dark . 
Wait and I'll draw him for you . 
The sketch when completed was of a sort to be shunned by a timid person on the verge of slumber . 
There was a tiny house on the right , and a weeping family gathered in front of it . 
The mortgage was depicted as a cross between a fiend and an ogre , and held an axe uplifted in his red right hand . 
He's terrible , said Emma Jane , but awfully wizened and small . 
It's only a twelve hundred dollar mortgage , said Rebecca , and that's called a small one . 
John saw a man once that was mortgaged for twelve thousand . 
Shall you be a writer or an editor ? asked Emma Jane presently , as if one had only to choose and the thing were done . 
I shall have to do what turns up first , I suppose . 
Why not go out as a missionary to Syria , as the Burches are always coaxing you to ? The Board would pay your expenses . 
I can't make up my mind to be a missionary , Rebecca answered . 
I'm not good enough in the first place , and I don't feel a call , as Mr. Burch says you must . 
It isn't as if the heathen really needed me I'm sure they'll come out all right in the end . 
I can't see how if all the people who ought to go out to save them stay at home as we do , argued Emma Jane . 
Why , whatever God is , and wherever He is , He must always be there , ready and waiting . 
He can't move about and miss people . 
It may take the heathen a little longer to find Him , but God will make allowances , of course . 
What if they die first ? asked Emma Jane . 
Oh , well , they can't be blamed for that they don't die on purpose , said Rebecca , with a comfortable theology . 
The building of the new road was not yet a certainty , and there was a difference of opinion as to the best route from Temperance to Plumville . 
She was wearing a black cashmere dress that had been her aunt Jane's second best . 
The long black braids were now disposed after a quaint fashion of her own . 
They were crossed behind , carried up to the front , and crossed again , the tapering ends finally brought down and hidden in the thicker part at the neck . 
Sixteen is a month off still , and you promised not to give me up till my dress trails . 
If you don't like me to grow old , why don't you grow young ? Then we can meet in the halfway house and have nice times . 
Now that I think about it , she continued , that's just what you've been doing all along . 
That will do very well , smiled Adam unless you go so swiftly that you become my grandmother before I really need one . 
You are studying too hard , Miss Rebecca Rowena ! Just a little , she confessed . 
But vacation comes soon , you know . 
And are you going to have a good rest and try to recover your dimples ? They are really worth preserving . 
A shadow crept over Rebecca's face and her eyes suffused . 
Adam Ladd wended his way to the principal's office in a thoughtful mood . 
He had come to Wareham to unfold a plan that he had been considering for several days . 
He wished the boys and girls of the two upper classes to compete the award to be made to the writers of the two best essays . 
As to the nature of the prizes he had not quite made up his mind , but they would be substantial ones , either of money or of books . 
I always go South for the spring vacation , traveling by sea to Old Point Comfort , and rusticating in some quiet spot near by . 
I should like nothing better than to have Rebecca for a companion . 
You needn't pretend you discovered her , interrupted Miss Maxwell warmly , for I did that myself . 
She was an intimate friend of mine long before you ever came to Wareham , laughed Adam , and he told Miss Maxwell the circumstances of his first meeting with Rebecca . 
From the beginning I've tried to think of a way I could be useful in her development , but no reasonable solution seemed to offer itself . 
Luckily she attends to her own development , answered Miss Maxwell . 
In a sense she is independent of everything and everybody she follows her saint without being conscious of it . 
But she needs a hundred practical things that money would buy for her , and alas ! I have a slender purse . 
Take mine , I beg , and let me act through you , pleaded Adam . 
I assured them it was a most ordinary occurrence , and that I was willing to be repaid later on if they insisted , but it was no use . 
The elder Miss Sawyer remarked that no member of her family ever had lived on charity , and she guessed they wouldn't begin at this late day . 
I rather like that uncompromising New England grit , exclaimed Miss Maxwell , and so far , I don't regret one burden that Rebecca has borne or one sorrow that she has shared . 
Necessity has only made her brave poverty has only made her daring and self reliant . 
I would accept those for her without the slightest embarrassment , but I agree that the matter would better be kept private between us . 
You are a real fairy godmother ! exclaimed Adam , shaking her hand warmly . 
I can understand that , replied Adam absent mindedly I mean , of course , that one child is less trouble than two . 
Here Rebecca appeared in sight , walking down the quiet street with a lad of sixteen . 
Rebecca kept glancing up at her companion , her eyes sparkling with appreciation . 
The folk in Cambridge often gloated on the spectacle of Longfellow and Lowell arm in arm . 
As they were leaving they passed the locked cases containing the library of fiction , open to the teachers and townspeople , but forbidden to the students . 
They looked longingly through the glass , getting some little comfort from the titles of the volumes , as hungry children imbibe emotional nourishment from the pies and tarts inside a confectioner's window . 
Rebecca's eyes fell upon a new book in the corner , and she read the name aloud with delight The Rose of Joy . 
Listen , girls isn't that lovely ? The Rose of Joy . 
It looks beautiful , and it sounds beautiful . 
What does it mean , I wonder ? I guess everybody has a different rose , said Huldah shrewdly . 
I know what mine would be , and I'm not ashamed to own it . 
That would be fun , for a while anyway , Emma Jane remarked . 
But wouldn't that be pleasure more than joy ? Oh , I've got an idea ! Don't shriek so ! said the startled Huldah . 
I thought it was a mouse . 
I don't have them very often , apologized Emma Jane , ideas , I mean this one shook me like a stroke of lightning . 
Rebecca , couldn't it be success ? That's good , mused Rebecca I can see that success would be a joy , but it doesn't seem to me like a rose , somehow . 
I was wondering if it could be love ? I wish we could have a peep at the book ! It must be perfectly elergant ! said Emma Jane . 
But now you say it is love , I think that's the best guess yet . 
All day long the four words haunted and possessed Rebecca she said them over to herself continually . 
The rose of joy might be helpfulness . 
In the middle of the night Rebecca touched Emma Jane on the shoulder softly . 
Are you very fast asleep , Emmie ? she whispered . 
Not so very , answered Emma Jane drowsily . 
I've thought of something new . 
If you have another thought , Becky , keep it till morning . 
I did have one more inspiration , said Rebecca when they were dressing next morning , but I didn't wake you . 
In three days she was not only herself again , she was another self , thrilling with delight , anticipation , and realization . 
She was a lifegiver , altering the whole scheme of any picture she made a part of , by contributing new values . 
The prize essay was very much on Rebecca's mind . 
Secretly she thought she could never be happy unless she won it . 
She cared nothing for the value of it , and in this case almost nothing for the honor she wanted to please Mr. Aladdin and justify his belief in her . 
Miss Maxwell and Rebecca were sitting by a little brook on a sunny spring day . 
The subject is very important , said Miss Maxwell , but I do not dare choose for you . 
Have you decided on anything yet ? No , Rebecca answered I plan a new essay every night . 
I've begun one on What is Failure ? and another on He and She . 
That would be a dialogue between a boy and girl just as they were leaving school , and would tell their ideals of life . 
Then do you remember you said to me one day , Follow your Saint' ? I'd love to write about that . 
Look at the pebbles in the bottom of the pool , Miss Emily , so round and smooth and shining . 
Yes , but where did they get that beautiful polish , that satin skin , that lovely shape , Rebecca ? Not in the still pool lying on the sands . 
It was never there that their angles were rubbed off and their rough surfaces polished , but in the strife and warfare of running waters . 
They have jostled against other pebbles , dashed against sharp rocks , and now we look at them and call them beautiful . 
If Fate had not made somebody a teacher , She might have been , oh ! such a splendid preacher ! rhymed Rebecca . 
Oh ! if I could only think and speak as you do ! she sighed . 
I am so afraid I shall never get education enough to make a good writer . 
You could worry about plenty of other things to better advantage , said Miss Maxwell , a little scornfully . 
AEsop was a Greek slave who could not even write down his wonderful fables yet all the world reads them . 
I didn't know that , said Rebecca , with a half sob . 
I didn't know anything until I met you ! You will only have had a high school course , but the most famous universities do not always succeed in making men and women . 
Mr. Ladd says that you are almost wasted on Wareham . 
He is wrong my talent is not a great one , but no talent is wholly wasted unless its owner chooses to hide it in a napkin . 
Remember that of your own gifts , Rebecca they may not be praised of men , but they may cheer , console , inspire , perhaps , when and where you least expect . 
The brimming glass that overflows its own rim moistens the earth about it . 
Did you ever hear of The Rose of Joy ? asked Rebecca , after a long silence . 
Yes , of course where did you see it ? On the outside of a book in the library . 
I saw it on the inside of a book in the library , smiled Miss Maxwell . 
It is from Emerson , but I'm afraid you haven't quite grown up to it , Rebecca , and it is one of the things impossible to explain . 
Oh , try me , dear Miss Maxwell ! pleaded Rebecca . 
Perhaps by thinking hard I can guess a little bit what it means . 
Not altogether , perhaps , because it is puzzling and difficult but a little , enough to go on with . 
My essay is going to be called The Rose of Joy . 
I wonder why these young things always choose subjects that would tax the powers of a great essayist ! thought Miss Maxwell , as she tried to sleep . 
Suddenly his vision was assailed by the sight of a rose colored parasol gayly unfurled in a shop window , signaling the passer by and setting him to dream of summer sunshine . 
He entered the shop , bought the extravagant bauble , and expressed it to Wareham at once , not a single doubt of its appropriateness crossing the darkness of his masculine mind . 
He thought only of the joy in Rebecca's eyes of the poise of her head under the apple blossom canopy . 
This is Rebecca's fairy story , copied the next day and given to Emily Maxwell just as she was going to her room for the night . 
A FAIRY STORY There was once a tired and rather poverty stricken Princess who dwelt in a cottage on the great highway between two cities . 
Now the cottage stood by the edge of a great green forest where the wind was always singing in the branches and the sunshine filtering through the leaves . 
If you are tired , poor little Princess , why do you not go into the cool green forest and rest ? asked the Fairy Godmother . 
Because I have no time , she answered . 
I must go back to my plough . 
When I feel the weight too much , I try to think of the harvest . 
And the same thing happened every day , and every day the tired Princess walked in the green wood . 
Many times she caught the glitter of the chariot and ran into the Highway to give thanks to the Fairy Godmother but she was never fleet enough to reach the spot . 
She could only stand with eager eyes and longing heart as the chariot passed by . 
Yet she never failed to catch a smile , and sometimes a word or two floated back to her , words that sounded like I would not be thanked . 
We are all children of the same King , and I am only his messenger . 
And by and by she took a needle from her girdle and pricked the thoughts on the leaves of the trees and sent them into the air to float hither and thither . 
But the miracle of the story lies deeper than all this . 
And many other little Princesses felt the same impulse and did the same thing . 
I have heard the rumble of your chariot wheels on the great Highway , and I knew that you were on the King's business . 
Here in my hand is a sheaf of messages from every quarter of my kingdom . 
They were delivered by weary and footsore travelers , who said that they could never have reached the gate in safety had it not been for your help and inspiration . 
Read them , that you may know when and where and how you sped the King's service . 
Mrs. Robinson explained this to her husband , and requested that he eat his dinner on the carpenter's bench in the shed , as the party was to be a ladies' affair . 
All right it won't be any loss to me , said Mr. Robinson . 
Give me beans , that's all I ask . 
He ain't goin' to give up ! said Alice , peering nervously under the cover , and he looks like a scarecrow . 
The rooster did indeed make an impressive showing , lying in his border of dumplings , and the dish was much complimented when it was borne in by Alice . 
This was fortunate , as the chorus of admiration ceased abruptly when the ladies began to eat the fowl . 
She was a fit mother for Huldah , being much the most stylish person in Riverboro ill health and dress were , indeed , her two chief enjoyments in life . 
How'd you like Huldy's dress , Delia ? she asked , snapping the elastic in her black jet bracelets after an irritating fashion she had . 
I thought it was about the handsomest of any , answered Delia and her composition was first rate . 
There was three ministers and three deacons on the committee , and it was only natural they should choose a serious piece hers was too lively to suit 'em . 
Huldah's inspiring theme had been Boys , and she certainly had a fund of knowledge and experience that fitted her to write most intelligently upon it . 
Rebecca's piece wan't read out loud , but the one that took the boy's prize was why was that ? asked Mrs. Robinson . 
Because she wan't graduatin' , explained Mrs. Cobb , and couldn't take part in the exercises it'll be printed , with Herbert Dunn's , in the school paper . 
Well , no , Marthy , not if Ladd offered it to any of the two upper classes that wanted to try for it , argued Mrs. Robinson . 
They say they asked him to give out the prizes , and he refused , up and down . 
It seems odd , his bein' so rich and travelin' about all over the country , that he was too modest to git up on that platform . 
It was complete , though , the governor happening to be there to see his niece graduate , said Delia Weeks . 
Land ! he looked elegant ! They say he's only six feet , but he might 'a' been sixteen , and he certainly did make a fine speech . 
This remark was from the sympathetic Mrs. Cobb . 
But there ! I'm glad the prize come to Riverboro 't any rate , and a han'somer one never was give out from the Wareham platform . 
I guess there ain't no end to Adam Ladd's money . 
The fifty dollars would 'a' been good enough , but he must needs go and put it into those elegant purses . 
I set so fur back I couldn't see 'em fairly , complained Delia , and now Rebecca has taken hers home to show her mother . 
It was kind of a gold net bag with a chain , said Mrs. Perkins , and there was five ten dollar gold pieces in it . 
Herbert Dunn's was put in a fine leather wallet . 
How long is Rebecca goin' to stay at the farm ? asked Delia . 
Till they get over Hannah's bein' married , and get the house to runnin' without her , answered Mrs. Perkins . 
It seems as if Hannah might 'a' waited a little longer . 
She's been doin' her sewin' for a year the awfullest coarse cotton cloth she had , but she's nearly blinded herself with fine stitchin' and rufflin' and tuckin' . 
Did you hear about the quilt she made ? It's white , and has a big bunch o' grapes in the centre , quilted by a thimble top . 
Then there's a row of circle borderin' round the grapes , and she done them the size of a spool . 
She'd better 'a' been takin' in sewin' and earnin' money , 'stead o' blindin' her eyes on such foolishness as quilted counterpanes , said Mrs. Cobb . 
The next thing you know that mortgage will be foreclosed on Mis' Randall , and she and the children won't have a roof over their heads . 
Don't they say there's a good chance of the railroad goin' through her place ? asked Mrs. Robinson . 
If it does , she'll git as much as the farm is worth and more . 
Adam Ladd 's one of the stockholders , and everything is a success he takes holt of . 
They're fightin' it in Augusty , but I'd back Ladd agin any o' them legislaters if he thought he was in the right . 
Rebecca'll have some new clothes now , said Delia , and the land knows she needs 'em . 
Poor little girl ! exclaimed Delia Weeks . 
She might as well help along her folks as spend it on foolishness , affirmed Mrs. Robinson . 
I think she was mighty lucky to git it to pay the interest with , but she's probably like all the Randalls it was easy come , easy go , with them . 
That's more than could be said of the Sawyer stock , retorted Mrs. Perkins seems like they enjoyed savin' more'n anything in the world , and it's gainin' on Mirandy sence her shock . 
And Mrs. Peter Meserve shook her head wisely . 
I thought I should 'a' died o' shame when he cried Hooray ! and swung his straw hat when the governor shook hands with Rebecca . 
It's lucky he couldn't get fur into the church and had to stand back by the door , for as it was , he made a spectacle of himself . 
My suspicion is and here every lady stopped eating and sat up straight that the Sawyer girls have lost money . 
They don't know a thing about business 'n' never did , and Mirandy's too secretive and contrairy to ask advice . 
The most o' what they've got is in gov'ment bonds , I always heard , and you can't lose money on them . 
Jane had the timber land left her , an' Mirandy had the brick house . 
She probably took it awful hard that Rebecca's fifty dollars had to be swallowed up in a mortgage , 'stead of goin' towards school expenses . 
The more I think of it , the more I think Adam Ladd intended Rebecca should have that prize when he gave it . 
The mind of Huldah's mother ran towards the idea that her daughter's rights had been assailed . 
Like as not , assented Mrs. Peter Meserve , though it's easy to see he ain't the marryin' kind . 
There's men that would marry once a year if their wives would die fast enough , and there's men that seems to want to live alone . 
If Ladd was a Mormon , I guess he could have every woman in North Riverboro that's a suitable age , accordin' to what my cousins say , remarked Mrs. Perkins . 
'T ain't likely he could be ketched by any North Riverboro girl , demurred Mrs. Robinson not when he prob'bly has had the pick o' Boston . 
I guess Marthy hit it when she said there's men that ain't the marryin' kind . 
I wouldn't trust any of 'em when Miss Right comes along ! laughed Mrs. Cobb genially . 
You never can tell what 'n' who 's goin' to please 'em . 
You know Jeremiah's contrairy horse , Buster ? He won't let anybody put the bit into his mouth if he can help it . 
He'll fight Jerry , and fight me , till he has to give in . 
Rebecca didn't know nothin' about his tricks , and the other day she went int' the barn to hitch up . 
He jest smacked his lips over the bit as if 't was a lump o' sugar . 
XXVII THE VISION SPLENDID A year had elapsed since Adam Ladd's prize had been discussed over the teacups in Riverboro . 
School days were ended , and the mystic function known to the initiated as graduation was about to be celebrated it was even now heralded by the sun dawning in the eastern sky . 
Rebecca stole softly out of bed , crept to the window , threw open the blinds , and welcomed the rosy light that meant a cloudless morning . 
Emma Jane stirred on her pillow , woke , and seeing Rebecca at the window , came and knelt on the floor beside her . 
It's going to be pleasant ! she sighed gratefully . 
No one who is unfamiliar with life in rural neighborhoods can imagine the gravity , the importance , the solemnity of this last day of school . 
Nothing quite equals graduation in the minds of the graduates themselves , their families , and the younger students , unless it be the inauguration of a governor at the State Capitol . 
Wareham , then , was shaken to its very centre on this day of days . 
The streets were filled with people wearing their best clothes , and the fashions included not only the latest thing , but the well preserved relic of a bygone day . 
The feminine graduates to be were seated in their own bedrooms , dressed with a completeness of detail to which all their past lives seemed to have been but a prelude . 
Others , in whose veins the blood of martyrs did not flow , substituted rags for leads and pretended that they made a more natural and less woolly curl . 
Blue and pink waist ribbons were lying over the backs of chairs , and the girl who had a Roman sash was praying that she might be kept from vanity and pride . 
The way to any graduating dress at all had not seemed clear to Rebecca until a month before . 
The two girls were waiting in their room alone , Emma Jane in rather a tearful state of mind . 
She kept thinking that it was the last day that they would be together in this altogether sweet and close intimacy . 
Both were very modest as to salary , but the former included educational advantages that Miss Maxwell thought might be valuable . 
The class of which Rebecca was president was not likely to follow accepted customs . 
Instead of marching two by two from the seminary to the church , they had elected to proceed thither by royal chariot . 
A haycart had been decked with green vines and bunches of long stemmed field daisies , those gay darlings of New England meadows . 
Every inch of the rail , the body , even the spokes , all were twined with yellow and green and white . 
Rebecca drove , seated on a green covered bench that looked not unlike a throne . 
Behind a hedge in the garden near where he was standing was a forlorn person in white , whose neat nose , chestnut hair , and blue eyes he seemed to know . 
The Cobbs she saw too . 
Her voice , her eyes , her body breathed conviction , earnestness , emotion and when she left the platform the audience felt that they had listened to a masterpiece . 
Rounds of applause greeted each graduate at this thrilling moment , and Jeremiah Cobb's behavior , when Rebecca came forward , was the talk of Wareham and Riverboro for days . 
Yes , it was over , and after the crowd had thinned a little , Adam Ladd made his way to the platform . 
Rebecca turned from speaking to some stran gers and met him in the aisle . 
Where , where is aunt Jane ? she cried , holding aunt Sarah's hand on one side and uncle Jerry's on the other . 
I'm sorry , lovey , but we've got bad news for you . 
Is aunt Miranda worse ? She is I can see it by your looks and Rebecca's color faded . 
She had a second stroke yesterday morning jest when she was helpin' Jane lay out her things to come here to day . 
Jane said you wan't to know anything about it till the exercises was all over , and we promised to keep it secret till then . 
I will go right home with you , aunt Sarah . 
I must just run to tell Miss Maxwell , for after I had packed up to morrow I was going to Brunswick with her . 
Poor aunt Miranda ! And I have been so gay and happy all day , except that I was longing for mother and aunt Jane . 
There ain't no harm in bein' gay , lovey that's what Jane wanted you to be . 
They moved into one of the quiet side pews , where Hannah and her husband and John joined them . 
From time to time some straggling acquaintance or old schoolmate would come up to congratulate Rebecca and ask why she had hidden herself in a corner . 
All this had an air of unreality to Rebecca . 
She longed to steal away into the woods with dear old John , grown so manly and handsome , and get some comfort from him . 
Meantime Adam Ladd and Mr. Cobb had been having an animated conversation . 
I s'pose up to Boston , girls like that one are as thick as blackb'ries ? uncle Jerry said , jerking his head interrogatively in Rebecca's direction . 
They may be , smiled Adam , taking in the old man's mood only I don't happen to know one . 
Well , I'm glad to hear your opinion , you bein' a traveled man , for mother says I'm foolish 'bout Rebecky and hev been sence the fust . 
Mother scolds me for spoilin' her , but I notice mother ain't fur behind when it comes to spoilin' . 
Land ! it made me sick , thinkin' o' them parents travelin' miles to see their young ones graduate , and then when they got here hevin' to compare 'em with Rebecky . 
Good by , Mr. Ladd , drop in some day when you come to Riverboro . 
I will , said Adam , shaking the old man's hand cordially perhaps to morrow if I drive Rebecca home , as I shall offer to do . 
Adam left the church , and in crossing the common came upon Miss Maxwell doing the honors of the institution , as she passed from group to group of strangers and guests . 
That is almost more than I can bear ! exclaimed Miss Maxwell , sitting down on a bench and stabbing the greensward with her parasol . 
It seems to me Rebecca never has any respite . 
That is true I was vexed when I spoke , for I thought an easier and happier day was dawning for my prodigy and pearl . 
OUR prodigy and pearl , corrected Adam . 
Oh , yes ! she laughed . 
I always forget that it pleases you to pretend you discovered Rebecca . 
I believe , though , that happier days are dawning for her , continued Adam . 
It must be a secret for the present , but Mrs. Randall's farm will be bought by the new railroad . 
We must have right of way through the land , and the station will be built on her property . 
He should be taken away from farm work and settled at his studies . 
We might form ourselves into a Randall Protective Agency , Limited , mused Miss Maxwell . 
I confess I want Rebecca to have a career . 
I don't , said Adam promptly . 
Men have no interest in the careers of women ! But I know Rebecca better than you . 
You understand her mind better , but not necessarily her heart . 
You are considering her for the moment as prodigy I am thinking of her more as pearl . 
Well , sighed Miss Maxwell whimsically , prodigy or pearl , the Randall Protective Agency may pull Rebecca in opposite directions , but nevertheless she will follow her saint . 
That will content me , said Adam gravely . 
Particularly if the saint beckons your way . 
And Miss Maxwell looked up and smiled provokingly . 
Rebecca did not see her aunt Miranda till she had been at the brick house for several days . 
Not all at once can the soul talk with God , be He ever so near . 
There came a morning when she asked for Rebecca . 
The door was opened into the dim sick room , and Rebecca stood there with the sunlight behind her , her hands full of sweet peas . 
Miranda's pale , sharp face , framed in its nightcap , looked haggard on the pillow , and her body was pitifully still under the counterpane . 
Come in , she said I ain't dead yet . 
Let me look at ye come closer . 
What dress are ye wearin' ? said the old aunt in her cracked , weak voice . 
Is your cashmere holdin' its color ? Yes , aunt Miranda . 
Do you keep it in a dark closet hung on the wrong side , as I told ye ? Always . 
Has your mother made her jelly ? She hasn't said . 
She always had the knack o' writin' letters with nothin' in 'em . 
What's Mark broke sence I've been sick ? Nothing at all , aunt Miranda . 
Why , what's the matter with him ? Gittin' lazy , ain't he ? How 's John turnin' out ? He's going to be the best of us all . 
I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there . 
Do you scald the coffee pot and turn it upside down on the winder sill ? Yes , aunt Miranda . 
I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth , Rebecca , but I couldn't help it no how . 
You'll hear the reason some time , and know I tried to make it up to ye . 
I'm afraid you was a laughin' stock ! No , Rebecca answered . 
Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest they looked like soft lace . 
You're not to be anxious about anything . 
Here I am all grown up and graduated , number three in a class of twenty two , aunt Miranda , and good positions offered me already . 
Look at me , big and strong and young , all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me . 
You listen to me , said Miranda quaveringly . 
Take the best place , regardless o' my sickness . 
I'd like to live long enough to know you'd paid off that mortgage , but I guess I shan't . 
Little by little hope stole back into Rebecca's young heart . 
It was of white chip with a wreath of cheap white roses and green leaves , and cost between two and three dollars , an unprecedented sum in Rebecca's experience . 
Mother has had bad accident . 
In less than an hour Rebecca was started on her way to Sunnybrook , her heart palpitating with fear as to what might be awaiting her at her journey's end . 
Death , at all events , was not there to meet her but something that looked at first only too much like it . 
Her mother had been standing on the haymow superintending some changes in the barn , had been seized with giddiness , they thought , and slipped . 
I don' know how 'tis , grumbled Miranda , who was not able to sit up that day but from a child I could never lay abed without Aurelia's gettin' sick too . 
I don' know 's she could help fallin' , though it ain't anyplace for a woman , a haymow but if it hadn't been that , 't would 'a' been somethin' else . 
Now she'll probably be a cripple , and Rebecca'll have to nurse her instead of earning a good income somewheres else . 
Her first duty 's to her mother , said aunt Jane I hope she'll always remember that . 
Nobody remembers anything they'd ought to , at seventeen , responded Miranda . 
Now that I'm strong again , there's things I want to consider with you , Jane , things that are on my mind night and day . 
We've talked 'em over before now we'll settle 'em . 
I shouldn't like to go against your feelings , especially in laying out your money , Miranda , said Jane . 
Don't tell Rebecca I've willed her the brick house . 
He's cheaper , but I guess it comes out jest the same in the end . 
I wan't goin' to have the fust man Rebecca picks up for a husband turnin' you ou'doors . 
Suddenly Miranda said slowly and feebly I don' know after all but you might as well take Mark I s'pose there's tame boys as well as wild ones . 
Now if you'll draw down the curtin , I'll try to sleep . 
They were months in which there had been many a weary night of watching by Aurelia's bedside of soothing and bandaging and rubbing of reading and nursing , even of feeding and bathing . 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged no girl of Re becca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion . 
Such a time came to Rebecca , and her bright spirit flagged when the letter was received saying that her position in Augusta had been filled . 
There was a mutinous leap of the heart then , a beating of wings against the door of the cage , a longing for the freedom of the big world outside . 
It was the stirring of the powers within her , though she called it by no such grand name . 
She felt as if the wind of destiny were blowing her flame hither and thither , burning , consuming her , but kindling nothing . 
Threads of joy ran in and out of the gray tangled web of daily living . 
As for Aurelia , words could never have expressed her dumb happiness when the real revelation of motherhood was vouchsafed her . 
In all the earlier years when her babies were young , carking cares and anxieties darkened the fireside with their brooding wings . 
Just a hint of the fall styles , mother , she said , slipping the stem of a gorgeous red and yellow sapling between the mattress and the foot of the bed . 
It was a marvelous morning . 
The sun had climbed into a world that held in remembrance only a succession of golden days and starlit nights . 
The air was fragrant with ripening fruit , and there was a mad little bird on a tree outside the door nearly bursting his throat with joy of living . 
Aurelia heard the bird and looked from the beauty of the glowing bush to her tall , splendid daughter , standing like young Spring with golden Autumn in her arms . 
Then suddenly she covered her eyes and cried , I can't bear it ! Here I lie chained to this bed , interfering with everything you want to do . 
The king and queen who are at present occupying my throne are very old and tottering , and are going to abdicate shortly in my favor . 
Aurelia smiled in spite of herself , and though not perhaps wholly deceived , she was comforted . 
I often think , Rebecca continued , walking to the window and looking out at the trees , I often think how dreadful it would be if I were not here at all . 
Oh , see ! There is Will driving up the lane , mother , and he ought to have a letter from the brick house . 
XXX GOOD BY , SUNNYBROOK Will Melville drove up to the window and , tossing a letter into Rebecca's lap , went off to the barn on an errand . 
Sister 's no worse , then , sighed Aurelia gratefully , or Jane would have telegraphed . 
Rebecca opened the envelope and read in one flash of an eye the whole brief page Your aunt Miranda passed away an hour ago . 
Come at once , if your mother is out of danger . 
I shall not have the funeral till you are here . 
She died very suddenly and without any pain . 
Oh , Rebecca ! I long for you so ! Aunt Jane . 
You must go this very instant , said Aurelia starting from her pillows . 
If I was to die while you were away , I would say the very same thing . 
The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have . 
Jenny can make out somehow , if Hannah'll come over once a day . 
But , mother , I CAN'T go ! Who'll turn you in bed ? exclaimed Rebecca , walking the floor and wringing her hands distractedly . 
It don't make any difference if I don't get turned , replied Aurelia stoically . 
If a woman of my age and the mother of a family hasn't got sense enough not to slip off haymows , she'd ought to suffer . 
Go put on your black dress and pack your bag . 
I'd give a good deal if I was able to go to my sister's funeral and prove that I've forgotten and forgiven all she said when I was married . 
There was only an hour for preparation . 
Will would drive Rebecca to Temperance and send Jenny back from school . 
He volunteered also to engage a woman to sleep at the farm in case Mrs. Randall should be worse at any time in the night . 
The time has come ! she thought . 
I am saying good by to Sunnybrook , and the golden gates that almost swung together that last day in Wareham will close forever now . 
Will Melville had seen the surveyors too , and had heard in the Temperance post office that morning the probable sum that Mrs. Randall would receive from the railway company . 
Cheer up , Becky ! he said , as he left her at the depot . 
You'll find your mother sitting up when you come back , and the next thing you know the whole family'll be moving to some nice little house wherever your work is . 
Things will never be so bad again as they have been this last year that's what Hannah and I think and he drove away to tell his wife the news . 
Adam Ladd was in the station and came up to Rebecca instantly , as she entered the door looking very unlike her bright self . 
The Princess is sad this morning , he said , taking her hand . 
Aladdin must rub the magic lamp then the slave will appear , and these tears be dried in a trice . 
He could hear her say as plainly as if it were yesterday , I don't think one ever forgets the spot where one lived as a child . 
But there were certain paragraphs that especially caught his eye and arrested his attention , paragraphs that he read and reread , finding in them he knew not what secret delight and significance . 
It is not therefore surprising that Aladdin , who had never seen , and was a stranger to , so many charms , was dazzled . 
With all these perfections the Princess had so delicate a shape , so majestic an air , that the sight of her was sufficient to inspire respect . 
Prince , answered the Princess , it is enough for me to have seen you , to tell you that I obey without reluctance . 
So here I be jest as I was more 'n six year ago . 
Every mile of the way was as familiar to Rebecca as to uncle Jerry every watering trough , grindstone , red barn , weather vane , duck pond , and sandy brook . 
The drive was taken almost in silence , but it was a sweet , comforting silence both to uncle Jerry and the girl . 
Then came the sight of Abijah Flagg shelling beans in the barn , and then the Perkins attic windows with a white cloth fluttering from them . 
The brick house came next , looking just as of yore though it seemed to Rebecca as if death should have cast some mysterious spell over it . 
Stop , uncle Jerry ! Don't turn in at the side hand me my satchel , please drop me in the road and let me run up the path by myself . 
At the noise and rumble of the approaching stage the house door opened from within , just as Rebecca closed the gate behind her . 
Aunt Jane came down the stone steps , a changed woman , frail and broken and white . 
Warmth and strength and life flowed into the aged frame from the young one . 
I told her before I left that she'd been the making of me , just as mother says , sobbed Rebecca She wasn't that , said Jane . 
Now let me tell you something , Rebecca . 
Your aunt Mirandy 's willed all this to you , the brick house and buildings and furniture , and the land all round the house , as far 's you can see . 
Rebecca threw off her hat and put her hand to her heart , as she always did in moments of intense excitement . 
He can stalk through dwelling after dwelling , leaving despair and desolation behind him , but the table must be laid , the dishes washed , the beds made , by somebody . 
Ten minutes later Rebecca came out from the Great Presence looking white and spent , but chastened and glorified . 
She sat in the quiet doorway , shaded from the little Riverboro world by the overhanging elms . 
She put up her hand softly and touched first the shining brass knocker and then the red bricks , glowing in the October sun . 
