This is what I undertake to do for you , reader . 
The afternoon sun was warm on the five workmen there , busy upon doors and window frames and wainscoting . 
The face was large and roughly hewn , and when in repose had no other beauty than such as belongs to an expression of good humoured honest intelligence . 
It is clear at a glance that the next workman is Adam's brother . 
The idle tramps always felt sure they could get a copper from Seth they scarcely ever spoke to Adam . 
The laughter burst out afresh as Seth clapped his hands to his head , and coloured over brow and crown . 
Hoorray ! shouted a small lithe fellow called Wiry Ben , running forward and seizing the door . 
We'll hang up th' door at fur end o' th' shop an' write on't 'Seth Bede , the Methody , his work . 
Here , Jim , lend's hould o' th' red pot . 
Let it alone , Ben Cranage . 
You'll mayhap be making such a slip yourself some day you'll laugh o' th' other side o' your mouth then . 
Catch me at it , Adam . 
It'll be a good while afore my head's full o' th' Methodies , said Ben . 
Nay , but it's often full o' drink , and that's worse . 
Let it alone , will you ? Adam called out , laying down his tools , striding up to Ben , and seizing his right shoulder . 
Let it alone , or I'll shake the soul out o' your body . 
Ben shook in Adam's iron grasp , but , like a plucky small man as he was , he didn't mean to give in . 
With his left hand he snatched the brush from his powerless right , and made a movement as if he would perform the feat of writing with his left . 
In a moment Adam turned him round , seized his other shoulder , and , pushing him along , pinned him against the wall . 
Let be , Addy , let be . 
Why , he's i' the right to laugh at me I canna help laughing at myself . 
I shan't loose him till he promises to let the door alone , said Adam . 
Come , Ben , lad , said Seth , in a persuasive tone , don't let's have a quarrel about it . 
You know Adam will have his way . 
You may's well try to turn a waggon in a narrow lane . 
Say you'll leave the door alone , and make an end on't . 
I binna frighted at Adam , said Ben , but I donna mind sayin' as I'll let 't alone at your askin' , Seth . 
Come , that's wise of you , Ben , said Adam , laughing and relaxing his grasp . 
They all returned to their work now but Wiry Ben , having had the worst in the bodily contest , was bent on retrieving that humiliation by a success in sarcasm . 
Ye might get religion , and that 'ud be the best day's earnings y' ever made . 
All i' good time for that , Seth I'll think about that when I'm a goin' to settle i' life bachelors doesn't want such heavy earnin's . 
Only you come and hear her , and you won't speak lightly on her again . 
Well , I'm half a mind t' ha' a look at her to night , if there isn't good company at th' Holly Bush . 
What'll she take for her text ? Happen ye can tell me , Seth , if so be as I shouldna come up i' time for't . 
Will't be what come ye out for to see ? A prophetess ? Yea , I say unto you , and more than a prophetess a uncommon pretty young woman . 
Come , Ben , said Adam , rather sternly , you let the words o' the Bible alone you're going too far now . 
What ! Are YE a turnin' roun' , Adam ? I thought ye war dead again th' women preachin' , a while agoo ? Nay , I'm not turnin' noway . 
I said nought about the women preachin' . 
I said , You let the Bible alone you've got a jest book , han't you , as you're rare and proud on ? Keep your dirty fingers to that . 
Why , y' are gettin' as big a saint as Seth . 
Y' are goin' to th' preachin' to night , I should think . 
Ye'll do finely t' lead the singin' . 
But I don' know what Parson Irwine 'ull say at his gran' favright Adam Bede a turnin' Methody . 
Never do you bother yourself about me , Ben . 
I'm not a going to turn Methodist any more nor you are though it's like enough you'll turn to something worse . 
Mester Irwine's got more sense nor to meddle wi' people's doing as they like in religion . 
That's between themselves and God , as he's said to me many a time . 
Aye , aye but he's none so fond o' your dissenters , for all that . 
Maybe I'm none so fond o' Josh Tod's thick ale , but I don't hinder you from making a fool o' yourself wi't . 
There was a laugh at this thrust of Adam's , but Seth said , very seriously . 
Nay , nay , Addy , thee mustna say as anybody's religion's like thick ale . 
Thee dostna believe but what the dissenters and the Methodists have got the root o' the matter as well as the church folks . 
Nay , Seth , lad I'm not for laughing at no man's religion . 
Let 'em follow their consciences , that's all . 
Only I think it 'ud be better if their consciences 'ud let 'em stay quiet i' the church there's a deal to be learnt there . 
And there's such a thing as being oversperitial we must have something beside Gospel i' this world . 
But t' hear some o' them preachers , you'd think as a man must be doing nothing all's life but shutting's eyes and looking what's agoing on inside him . 
I know a man must have the love o' God in his soul , and the Bible's God's word . 
Well done , Adam ! said Sandy Jim , who had paused from his planing to shift his planks while Adam was speaking that's the best sarmunt I've heared this long while . 
By th' same token , my wife's been a plaguin' on me to build her a oven this twelvemont . 
There's reason in what thee say'st , Adam , observed Seth , gravely . 
But thee know'st thyself as it's hearing the preachers thee find'st so much fault with has turned many an idle fellow into an industrious un . 
It's the preacher as empties th' alehouse and if a man gets religion , he'll do his work none the worse for that . 
On'y he'll lave the panels out o' th' doors sometimes , eh , Seth ? said Wiry Ben . 
Ah , Ben , you've got a joke again' me as 'll last you your life . 
But it isna religion as was i' fault there it was Seth Bede , as was allays a wool gathering chap , and religion hasna cured him , the more's the pity . 
Seth , lad , said Adam , taking no notice of the sarcasm against himself , thee mustna take me unkind . 
I wasna driving at thee in what I said just now . 
Some 's got one way o' looking at things and some 's got another . 
Nay , nay , Addy , thee mean'st me no unkindness , said Seth , I know that well enough . 
Thee't like thy dog Gyp thee bark'st at me sometimes , but thee allays lick'st my hand after . 
All hands worked on in silence for some minutes , until the church clock began to strike six . 
Adam alone had gone on with his work as if nothing had happened . 
When y' are six an' forty like me , istid o' six an' twenty , ye wonna be so flush o' workin' for nought . 
Nonsense , said Adam , still wrathful what's age got to do with it , I wonder ? Ye arena getting stiff yet , I reckon . 
The very grindstone 'ull go on turning a bit after you loose it . 
Bodderation , Adam ! exclaimed Wiry Ben lave a chap aloon , will 'ee ? Ye war afinding faut wi' preachers a while agoo y' are fond enough o' preachin' yoursen . 
Ye may like work better nor play , but I like play better nor work that'll 'commodate ye it laves ye th' more to do . 
With this exit speech , which he considered effective , Wiry Ben shouldered his basket and left the workshop , quickly followed by Mum Taft and Sandy Jim . 
Seth lingered , and looked wistfully at Adam , as if he expected him to say something . 
Shalt go home before thee go'st to the preaching ? Adam asked , looking up . 
Nay I've got my hat and things at Will Maskery's . 
I shan't be home before going for ten . 
I'll happen see Dinah Morris safe home , if she's willing . 
There's nobody comes with her from Poyser's , thee know'st . 
Then I'll tell mother not to look for thee , said Adam . 
Thee artna going to Poyser's thyself to night ? said Seth rather timidly , as he turned to leave the workshop . 
Nay , I'm going to th' school . 
Hitherto Gyp had kept his comfortable bed , only lifting up his head and watching Adam more closely as he noticed the other workmen departing . 
What ! Art ready for the basket , eh , Gyp ? said Adam , with the same gentle modulation of voice as when he spoke to Seth . 
Gyp jumped and gave a short bark , as much as to say , Of course . 
Poor fellow , he had not a great range of expression . 
On leaving the workshop Adam locked the door , took the key out , and carried it to the house on the other side of the woodyard . 
It was a low house , with smooth grey thatch and buff walls , looking pleasant and mellow in the evening light . 
The leaded windows were bright and speckless , and the door stone was as clean as a white boulder at ebb tide . 
No , Dolly , thank you I'm off home . 
Adam hastened with long strides , Gyp close to his heels , out of the workyard , and along the highroad leading away from the village and down to the valley . 
Mr. Casson's person was by no means of that common type which can be allowed to pass without description . 
Why , what's up in your pretty village , landlord ? he continued , getting down . 
There seems to be quite a stir . 
Will you please to step in , sir , an' tek somethink ? No , I must be getting on to Rosseter . 
I only want a drink for my horse . 
The parsonage here's a tumble down place , sir , not fit for gentry to live in . 
He comes here to preach of a Sunday afternoon , sir , an' puts up his hoss here . 
It's a grey cob , sir , an' he sets great store by't . 
He's allays put up his hoss here , sir , iver since before I hed the Donnithorne Arms . 
I'm not this countryman , you may tell by my tongue , sir . 
They're cur'ous talkers i' this country , sir the gentry's hard work to hunderstand 'em . 
I was brought hup among the gentry , sir , an' got the turn o' their tongue when I was a bye . 
Why , what do you think the folks here says for 'hevn't you ? the gentry , you know , says , 'hevn't you' well , the people about here says 'hanna yey . 
It's what they call the dileck as is spoke hereabout , sir . 
That's what I've heared Squire Donnithorne say many a time it's the dileck , says he . 
Aye , aye , said the stranger , smiling . 
I know it very well . 
You're all farmers , aren't you ? The Methodists can seldom lay much hold on THEM . 
Why , sir , there's a pretty lot o' workmen round about , sir . 
There's Mester Burge as owns the timber yard over there , he underteks a good bit o' building an' repairs . 
An' there's the stone pits not far off . 
There's plenty of emply i' this countryside , sir . 
An' there's a fine batch o' Methodisses at Treddles'on that's the market town about three mile off you'll maybe ha' come through it , sir . 
There's pretty nigh a score of 'em on the Green now , as come from there . 
The preacher comes from Treddleston , then , does she ? Nay , sir , she comes out o' Stonyshire , pretty nigh thirty mile off . 
But she's a visitin' hereabout at Mester Poyser's at the Hall Farm it's them barns an' big walnut trees , right away to the left , sir . 
She's own niece to Poyser's wife , an' they'll be fine an' vexed at her for making a fool of herself i' that way . 
But I've heared as there's no holding these Methodisses when the maggit's once got i' their head many of 'em goes stark starin' mad wi' their religion . 
Though this young woman's quiet enough to look at , by what I can make out I've not seen her myself . 
Well , I wish I had time to wait and see her , but I must get on . 
I've been out of my way for the last twenty minutes to have a look at that place in the valley . 
It's Squire Donnithorne's , I suppose ? Yes , sir , that's Donnithorne Chase , that is . 
Fine hoaks there , isn't there , sir ? I should know what it is , sir , for I've lived butler there a going i' fifteen year . 
It's Captain Donnithorne as is th' heir , sir Squire Donnithorne's grandson . 
He'll be comin' of hage this 'ay 'arvest , sir , an' we shall hev fine doin's . 
He owns all the land about here , sir , Squire Donnithorne does . 
Well , it's a pretty spot , whoever may own it , said the traveller , mounting his horse and one meets some fine strapping fellows about too . 
We want such fellows as he to lick the French . 
Aye , sir , that's Adam Bede , that is , I'll be bound Thias Bede's son everybody knows him hereabout . 
He's an uncommon clever stiddy fellow , an' wonderful strong . 
Lord bless you , sir if you'll hexcuse me for saying so he can walk forty mile a day , an' lift a matter o' sixty ston' . 
He's an uncommon favourite wi' the gentry , sir Captain Donnithorne and Parson Irwine meks a fine fuss wi' him . 
But he's a little lifted up an' peppery like . 
Well , good evening to you , landlord I must get on . 
Your servant , sir good evenin' . 
It was that moment in summer when the sound of the scythe being whetted makes us cast more lingering looks at the flower sprinkled tresses of the meadows . 
The men were chiefly gathered in the neighbourhood of the blacksmith's shop . 
But do not imagine them gathered in a knot . 
Villagers never swarm a whisper is unknown among them , and they seem almost as incapable of an undertone as a cow or a stag . 
But both styles of wit were treated with equal contempt by Mr. Joshua Rann . 
The stronger curiosity of the women had drawn them quite to the edge of the Green , where they could examine more closely the Quakerlike costume and odd deportment of the female Methodists . 
Some of the Methodists were resting on these , with their eyes closed , as if wrapt in prayer or meditation . 
Ye gallows young dog , said Sandy Jim , with some paternal pride , if ye donna keep that stick quiet , I'll tek it from ye . 
What dy'e mane by kickin' foulks ? Here ! Gie him here to me , Jim , said Chad Cranage I'll tie hirs up an' shoe him as I do th' hosses . 
I mane to groon as loud as your cow did th' other naight , an' then the praicher 'ull think I'm i' th' raight way . 
Aye , an' she's a pleasant looked un too , said Wiry Ben . 
I'll stick up for the pretty women preachin' I know they'd persuade me over a deal sooner nor th' ugly men . 
I shouldna wonder if I turn Methody afore the night's out , an' begin to coort the preacher , like Seth Bede . 
Why , Seth's looking rether too high , I should think , said Mr. Casson . 
This woman's kin wouldn't like her to demean herself to a common carpenter . 
Tchu ! said Ben , with a long treble intonation , what's folks's kin got to do wi't ? Not a chip . 
A strappin' young carpenter as is a ready made Methody , like Seth , wouldna be a bad match for her . 
Why , Poysers make as big a fuss wi' Adam Bede as if he war a nevvy o' their own . 
Idle talk ! idle talk ! said Mr. Joshua Rann . 
Adam an' Seth's two men you wunna fit them two wi' the same last . 
Maybe , said Wiry Ben , contemptuously , but Seth's the lad for me , though he war a Methody twice o'er . 
I'm fair beat wi' Seth , for I've been teasin' him iver sin' we've been workin' together , an' he bears me no more malice nor a lamb . 
Why , there he comes out o' Will Maskery's an' there's Will hisself , lookin' as meek as if he couldna knock a nail o' the head for fear o' hurtin't . 
An' there's the pretty preacher woman ! My eye , she's got her bonnet off . 
I mun go a bit nearer . 
He knew but two types of Methodist the ecstatic and the bilious . 
She held no book in her ungloved hands , but let them hang down lightly crossed before her , as she stood and turned her grey eyes on the people . 
The hair was drawn straight back behind the ears , and covered , except for an inch or two above the brow , by a net Quaker cap . 
It was one of those faces that make one think of white flowers with light touches of colour on their pure petals . 
A sweet woman , the stranger said to himself , but surely nature never meant her for a preacher . 
But Dinah began to speak . 
Dear friends , she said in a clear but not loud voice let us pray for a blessing . 
She knew Thee not she had not sought Thee her mind was dark her life was unholy . 
Lord , Thou art with Thy people still they see Thee in the night watches , and their hearts burn within them as Thou talkest with them by the way . 
Dinah opened her eyes again and paused , looking at the group of villagers , who were now gathered rather more closely on her right hand . 
Jesus Christ spoke those words he said he came TO PREACH THE GOSPEL TO THE POOR . 
I don't know whether you ever thought about those words much , but I will tell you when I remember first hearing them . 
I came to know more about him years after , but I was a foolish thoughtless child then , and I remembered only one thing he told us in his sermon . 
He told us as 'Gospel' meant 'good news . 
The Gospel , you know , is what the Bible tells us about God . 
Why , you and me , dear friends , are poor . 
We are just the sort of people that want to hear good news . 
To be sure , we can't help knowing something about God , even if we've never heard the Gospel , the good news that our Saviour brought us . 
And he gave us our souls and put love between parents and children , and husband and wife . 
But God lasts when everything else is gone . 
So then , all the love that Jesus showed to the poor is the same love that God has for us . 
We can understand what Jesus felt , because he came in a body like ours and spoke words such as we speak to each other . 
We were afraid to think what God was before the God who made the world and the sky and the thunder and lightning . 
But let us see a little more about what Jesus came on earth for . 
Another time he said , 'I came to seek and to save that which was lost' and another time , 'I came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance . 
He saw that she had thoroughly arrested her hearers . 
The villagers had pressed nearer to her , and there was no longer anything but grave attention on all faces . 
She spoke slowly , though quite fluently , often pausing after a question , or before any transition of ideas . 
She had made a long pause before the exclamation , and the pause seemed to be filled by agitating thoughts that showed themselves in her features . 
Her voice became deep and muffled , but there was still no gesture . 
Nothing could be less like the ordinary type of the Ranter than Dinah . 
She was not preaching as she heard others preach , but speaking directly from her own emotions and under the inspiration of her own simple faith . 
But now she had entered into a new current of feeling . 
At last it seemed as if , in her yearning desire to reclaim the lost sheep , she could not be satisfied by addressing her hearers as a body . 
Yet no one had retired , except the children and old Feyther Taft , who being too deaf to catch many words , had some time ago gone back to his inglenook . 
Wiry Ben was feeling very uncomfortable , and almost wishing he had not come to hear Dinah he thought what she said would haunt him somehow . 
Yet he couldn't help liking to look at her and listen to her , though he dreaded every moment that she would fix her eyes on him and address him in particular . 
In front of Sandy Jim stood Chad's Bess , who had shown an unwonted quietude and fixity of attention ever since Dinah had begun to speak . 
But gradually the influence of the general gravity told upon her , and she became conscious of what Dinah was saying . 
The gentle tones , the loving persuasion , did not touch her , but when the more severe appeals came she began to be frightened . 
Poor Bessy had always been considered a naughty girl she was conscious of it if it was necessary to be very good , it was clear she must be in a bad way . 
All this she was generally conscious of , and hitherto had not been greatly ashamed of it . 
But now she began to feel very much as if the constable had come to take her up and carry her before the justice for some undefined offence . 
See ! she exclaimed , turning to the left , with her eyes fixed on a point above the heads of the people . 
See where our blessed Lord stands and weeps and stretches out his arms towards you . 
Hear what he says 'How often would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings , and ye would not ! . 
and ye would not , she repeated , in a tone of pleading reproach , turning her eyes on the people again . 
See the print of the nails on his dear hands and feet . 
They spat upon him and buffeted him , they scourged him , they mocked him , they laid the heavy cross on his bruised shoulders . 
Then they nailed him up . 
Then a horror of great darkness fell upon him , and he felt what sinners feel when they are for ever shut out from God . 
That was the last drop in the cup of bitterness . 
And he is upon this earth too he is among us he is there close to you now I see his wounded body and his look of love . 
Here Dinah turned to Bessy Cranage , whose bonny youth and evident vanity had touched her with pity . 
Poor child ! Poor child ! He is beseeching you , and you don't listen to him . 
You think of ear rings and fine gowns and caps , and you never think of the Saviour who died to save your precious soul . 
And Jesus , who stands ready to help you now , won't help you then because you won't have him to be your Saviour , he will be your judge . 
Ah , poor blind child ! Dinah went on , think if it should happen to you as it once happened to a servant of God in the days of her vanity . 
And one day when she put her new cap on and looked in the glass , she saw a bleeding Face crowned with thorns . 
Bessy could bear it no longer a great terror was upon her , and wrenching her ear rings from her ears , she threw them down before her , sobbing aloud . 
Folks mun ha' hoss shoes , praichin' or no praichin' the divil canna lay hould o' me for that , he muttered to himself . 
Dear friends , come and take this blessedness it is offered to you it is the good news that Jesus came to preach to the poor . 
It is not like the riches of this world , so that the more one gets the less the rest can have . 
God is without end his love is without end Its streams the whole creation reach , So plenteous is the store Enough for all , enough for each , Enough for evermore . 
Dinah had been speaking at least an hour , and the reddening light of the parting day seemed to give a solemn emphasis to her closing words . 
Her very walk was discouraging it had that quiet elasticity that asks for no support . 
But another thought gave him courage There's no man could love her better and leave her freer to follow the Lord's work . 
You've quite made up your mind to go back to Snowfield o' Saturday , Dinah ? Yes , said Dinah , quietly . 
It was borne in upon my mind while I was meditating on Sunday night , as Sister Allen , who's in a decline , is in need of me . 
I saw her as plain as we see that bit of thin white cloud , lifting up her poor thin hand and beckoning to me . 
I've been much drawn out in prayer for her of late , and I look on it as a token that there may be mercy in store for her . 
God grant it , said Seth . 
I often think of them words , 'And Jacob served seven years for Rachel and they seemed to him but a few days for the love he had to her . 
I know those words 'ud come true with me , Dinah , if so be you'd give me hope as I might win you after seven years was over . 
I know you think a husband 'ud be taking up too much o' your thoughts , because St . 
And it seems to me there's more texts for your marrying than ever you can find against it . 
For we should be o' one heart and o' one mind , Dinah . 
His cheeks became flushed as he went on his mild grey eyes filled with tears , and his voice trembled as he spoke the last sentence . 
But my heart is not free to marry . 
He has called me to speak his word , and he has greatly owned my work . 
My life is too short , and God's work is too great for me to think of making a home for myself in this world . 
And when I've opened the Bible for direction , I've always lighted on some clear word to tell me where my work lay . 
I desire to live and die without husband or children . 
Seth was unable to reply , and they walked on in silence . 
But I feel now how weak my faith is . 
It seems as if , when you are gone , I could never joy in anything any more . 
I trusted as the strong love God has given me towards you was a leading for us both but it seems it was only meant for my trial . 
That may be wrong , and I am to be taught better . 
Do nothing without the Lord's clear bidding . 
It's a bleak and barren country there , not like this land of Goshen you've been used to . 
We mustn't be in a hurry to fix and choose our own lot we must wait to be guided . 
But you'd let me write you a letter , Dinah , if there was anything I wanted to tell you ? Yes , sure let me know if you're in any trouble . 
You'll be continually in my prayers . 
They had now reached the yard gate , and Seth said , I won't go in , Dinah , so farewell . 
He paused and hesitated after she had given him her hand , and then said , There's no knowing but what you may see things different after a while . 
There may be a new leading . 
Let us leave that , Seth . 
It's good to live only a moment at a time , as I've read in one of Mr. Wesley's books . 
It isn't for you and me to lay plans we've nothing to do but to obey and to trust . 
Dinah pressed his hand with rather a sad look in her loving eyes , and then passed through the gate , while Seth turned away to walk lingeringly home . 
Love of this sort is hardly distinguishable from religious feeling . 
What deep and worthy love is so , whether of woman or child , or art or music . 
Chapter IV Home and Its Sorrows A GREEN valley with a brook running through it , full almost to overflowing with the late rains , overhung by low stooping willows . 
Lisbeth Bede loves her son with the love of a woman to whom her first born has come late in life . 
She is an anxious , spare , yet vigorous old woman , clean as a snowdrop . 
For Lisbeth is tall , and in other points too there is a strong likeness between her and her son Adam . 
Family likeness has often a deep sadness in it . 
It is such a fond anxious mother's voice that you hear , as Lisbeth says , Well , my lad , it's gone seven by th' clock . 
Thee't allays stay till the last child's born . 
Thee wants thy supper , I'll warrand . 
Where's Seth ? Gone arter some o's chapellin' , I reckon ? Aye , aye , Seth's at no harm , mother , thee mayst be sure . 
But where's father ? said Adam quickly , as he entered the house and glanced into the room on the left hand , which was used as a workshop . 
Hasn't he done the coffin for Tholer ? There's the stuff standing just as I left it this morning . 
Done the coffin ? said Lisbeth , following him , and knitting uninterruptedly , though she looked at her son very anxiously . 
Eh , my lad , he went aff to Treddles'on this forenoon , an's niver come back . 
I doubt he's got to th' 'Waggin Overthrow' again . 
A deep flush of anger passed rapidly over Adam's face . 
He said nothing , but threw off his jacket and began to roll up his shirt sleeves again . 
What art goin' to do , Adam ? said the mother , with a tone and look of alarm . 
Thee wouldstna go to work again , wi'out ha'in thy bit o' supper ? Adam , too angry to speak , walked into the workshop . 
I saved 'em o' purpose for thee . 
Come an' ha' thy supper , come . 
Let be ! said Adam impetuously , shaking her off and seizing one of the planks that stood against the wall . 
My throat's too full to swallow victuals . 
Why , thee canstna get the coffin ready , said Lisbeth . 
Thee't work thyself to death . 
It 'ud take thee all night to do't . 
It makes me mad to think on't . 
I shall overrun these doings before long . 
I've stood enough of 'em . 
Poor Lisbeth did not hear this threat for the first time , and if she had been wise she would have gone away quietly and said nothing for the next hour . 
But one of the lessons a woman most rarely learns is never to talk to an angry or a drunken man . 
Lisbeth sat down on the chopping bench and began to cry , and by the time she had cried enough to make her voice very piteous , she burst out into words . 
Nay , my lad , my lad , thee wouldstna go away an' break thy mother's heart , an' leave thy feyther to ruin . 
Thee wouldstna ha' 'em carry me to th' churchyard , an' thee not to follow me . 
He war a good feyther to thee afore he took to th' drink . 
He's a clever workman , an' taught thee thy trade , remember , an's niver gen me a blow nor so much as an ill word no , not even in 's drink . 
Lisbeth's voice became louder , and choked with sobs a sort of wail , the most irritating of all sounds where real sorrows are to be borne and real work to be done . 
Now , Mother , don't cry and talk so . 
I know thee dost things as nobody else 'ud do , my lad . 
But thee't allays so hard upo' thy feyther , Adam . 
Thee think'st nothing too much to do for Seth thee snapp'st me up if iver I find faut wi' th' lad . 
But thee't so angered wi' thy feyther , more nor wi' anybody else . 
I know there's a duty to be done by my father , but it isn't my duty to encourage him in running headlong to ruin . 
And what has Seth got to do with it ? The lad does no harm as I know of . 
But leave me alone , Mother , and let me get on with the work . 
We are apt to be kinder to the brutes that love us than to the women that love us . 
But no sooner had he licked up his supper than he went back to his master , while Lisbeth sat down alone to cry over her knitting . 
But a certain awe mingled itself with her idolatrous love of Adam , and when he said , Leave me alone , she was always silenced . 
So the hours passed , to the loud ticking of the old day clock and the sound of Adam's tools . 
, and Lisbeth ventured to say as she took it in , Thy supper stan's ready for thee , when thee lik'st . 
Donna thee sit up , mother , said Adam , in a gentle tone . 
I'll see to Father when he comes home maybe he wonna come at all to night . 
I shall be easier if thee't i' bed . 
Nay , I'll bide till Seth comes . 
He wonna be long now , I reckon . 
It was then past nine by the clock , which was always in advance of the days , and before it had struck ten the latch was lifted and Seth entered . 
He had heard the sound of the tools as he was approaching . 
Lisbeth was going on , for she was not at all afraid of Seth , and usually poured into his ears all the querulousness which was repressed by her awe of Adam . 
Seth had never in his life spoken a harsh word to his mother , and timid people always wreak their peevishness on the gentle . 
Why , what's the matter with thee ? Thee't in trouble . 
Seth's eyes were red , and there was a look of deep depression on his mild face . 
Yes , Addy , but it's what must be borne , and can't be helped . 
Why , thee'st never been to the school , then ? School ? No , that screw can wait , said Adam , hammering away again . 
Let me take my turn now , and do thee go to bed , said Seth . 
No , lad , I'd rather go on , now I'm in harness . 
Thee't help me to carry it to Brox'on when it's done . 
I'll call thee up at sunrise . 
Go and eat thy supper , and shut the door so as I mayn't hear Mother's talk . 
Seth knew that Adam always meant what he said , and was not to be persuaded into meaning anything else . 
So he turned , with rather a heavy heart , into the house place . 
Adam's niver touched a bit o' victual sin' home he's come , said Lisbeth . 
I reckon thee'st hed thy supper at some o' thy Methody folks . 
Nay , Mother , said Seth , I've had no supper yet . 
Come , then , said Lisbeth , but donna thee ate the taters , for Adam 'ull happen ate 'em if I leave 'em stannin' . 
He loves a bit o' taters an' gravy . 
But he's been so sore an' angered , he wouldn't ate 'em , for all I'd putten 'em by o' purpose for him . 
Come , Mother , donna grieve thyself in vain , said Seth , in a soothing voice . 
Thee'st not half so good reason to think as Adam 'ull go away as to think he'll stay with thee . 
He may say such a thing when he's in wrath and he's got excuse for being wrathful sometimes but his heart 'ud never let him go . 
He'll never turn round and knock down his own work , and forsake them as it's been the labour of his life to stand by . 
Donna talk to me about's marr'in' , said Lisbeth , crying afresh . 
He's set's heart on that Hetty Sorrel , as 'ull niver save a penny , an' 'ull toss up her head at's old mother . 
There's nobody but God can control the heart of man . 
I could ha' wished myself as Adam could ha' made another choice , but I wouldn't reproach him for what he can't help . 
And I'm not sure but what he tries to o'ercome it . 
But it's a matter as he doesn't like to be spoke to about , and I can only pray to the Lord to bless and direct him . 
Aye , thee't allays ready enough at prayin' , but I donna see as thee gets much wi' thy prayin' . 
Thee wotna get double earnin's o' this side Yule . 
Th' Methodies 'll niver make thee half the man thy brother is , for all they're a makin' a preacher on thee . 
It's partly truth thee speak'st there , Mother , said Seth , mildly Adam's far before me , an's done more for me than I can ever do for him . 
God distributes talents to every man according as He sees good . 
But thee mustna undervally prayer . 
Prayer mayna bring money , but it brings us what no money can buy a power to keep from sin and be content with God's will , whatever He may please to send . 
If thee wouldst pray to God to help thee , and trust in His goodness , thee wouldstna be so uneasy about things . 
Unaisy ? I'm i' th' right on't to be unaisy . 
It's well seen on THEE what it is niver to be unaisy . 
Thee't gi' away all thy earnin's , an' niver be unaisy as thee'st nothin' laid up again' a rainy day . 
If Adam had been as aisy as thee , he'd niver ha' had no money to pay for thee . 
Take no thought for the morrow take no thought that's what thee't allays sayin' an' what comes on't ? Why , as Adam has to take thought for thee . 
Those are the words o' the Bible , Mother , said Seth . 
They don't mean as we should be idle . 
They mean we shouldn't be overanxious and worreting ourselves about what'll happen to morrow , but do our duty and leave the rest to God's will . 
Aye , aye , that's the way wi' thee thee allays makes a peck o' thy own words out o' a pint o' the Bible's . 
I donna see how thee't to know as 'take no thought for the morrow' means all that . 
Adam doesna pick a that'n I can understan' the tex as he's allays a sayin' , 'God helps them as helps theirsens . 
Nay , Mother , said Seth , that's no text o' the Bible . 
It comes out of a book as Adam picked up at the stall at Treddles'on . 
It was wrote by a knowing man , but overworldly , I doubt . 
However , that saying's partly true for the Bible tells us we must be workers together with God . 
Well , how'm I to know ? It sounds like a tex . 
But what's th' matter wi' th' lad ? Thee't hardly atin' a bit o' supper . 
Dostna mean to ha' no more nor that bit o' oat cake ? An' thee lookst as white as a flick o' new bacon . 
What's th' matter wi' thee ? Nothing to mind about , Mother I'm not hungry . 
I'll just look in at Adam again , and see if he'll let me go on with the coffin . 
Ha' a drop o' warm broth ? said Lisbeth , whose motherly feeling now got the better of her nattering habit . 
I'll set two three sticks a light in a minute . 
Well , I've nothin' to say again' it . 
So the mother and son knelt down together , and Seth prayed for the poor wandering father and for those who were sorrowing for him at home . 
Make Mother go to bed , and go thyself . 
Meantime Lisbeth had dried her eyes , and now followed Seth , holding something in her hands . 
It was the brown and yellow platter containing the baked potatoes with the gravy in them and bits of meat which she had cut and mixed among them . 
Those were dear times , when wheaten bread and fresh meat were delicacies to working people . 
She set the dish down rather timidly on the bench by Adam's side and said , Thee canst pick a bit while thee't workin' . 
I'll bring thee another drop o' water . 
Aye , Mother , do , said Adam , kindly I'm getting very thirsty . 
In half an hour all was quiet no sound was to be heard in the house but the loud ticking of the old day clock and the ringing of Adam's tools . 
Bodily haste and exertion usually leave our thoughts very much at the mercy of our feelings and imagination and it was so to night with Adam . 
So it will go on , worsening and worsening , thought Adam there's no slipping uphill again , and no standing still when once youve begun to slip down . 
Adam remembered well the night of shame and anguish when he first saw his father quite wild and foolish , shouting a song out fitfully among his drunken companions at the Waggon Overthrown . 
He came back the next day , but the misery and terror his mother had gone through in those two days had haunted her ever since . 
No ! Adam said to himself to night , that must never happen again . 
It 'ud make a poor balance when my doings are cast up at the last , if my poor old mother stood o' the wrong side . 
My back's broad enough and strong enough I should be no better than a coward to go away and leave the troubles to be borne by them as aren't half so able . 
'They that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of those that are weak , and not to please themselves . 
There's a text wants no candle to show't it shines by its own light . 
It's plain enough you get into the wrong road i' this life if you run after this and that only for the sake o' making things easy and pleasant to yourself . 
Nay , nay , I'll never slip my neck out o' the yoke , and leave the load to be drawn by the weak uns . 
Father's a sore cross to me , an's likely to be for many a long year to come . 
What then ? I've got th' health , and the limbs , and the sperrit to bear it . 
Adam , very much startled , went at once to the door and opened it . 
Adam walked round the house , and still saw nothing except a rat which darted into the woodshed as he passed . 
He went in again , wondering the sound was so peculiar that the moment he heard it it called up the image of the willow wand striking the door . 
He could not help a little shudder , as he remembered how often his mother had told him of just such a sound coming as a sign when some one was dying . 
And so it happened that Adam was at once penetrating and credulous . 
A pause came , however , when he had to take up his ruler , and now again came the strange rap , and again Gyp howled . 
The next thought that occurred to him was one that made him slip off his shoes and tread lightly upstairs , to listen at the bedroom doors . 
But both Seth and his mother were breathing regularly . 
Adam came down and set to work again , saying to himself , I won't open the door again . 
It's no use staring about to catch sight of a sound . 
Maybe there's a world about us as we can't see , but th' ear's quicker than the eye and catches a sound from't now and then . 
Some people think they get a sight on't too , but they're mostly folks whose eyes are not much use to 'em at anything else . 
For my part , I think it's better to see when your perpendicular's true than to see a ghost . 
Such thoughts as these are apt to grow stronger and stronger as daylight quenches the candles and the birds begin to sing . 
There was no need to call Seth , for he was already moving overhead , and presently came downstairs . 
I'll take a mouthful o' oat cake , and then we'll be off . 
They paused for the last time before a small farmhouse outside the village of Broxton . 
By six o'clock the task was done the coffin nailed down , and Adam and Seth were on their way home . 
They chose a shorter way homewards , which would take them across the fields and the brook in front of the house . 
Never mind about losing an hour at thy work we can make that up . 
What dost say ? I'm willing , said Seth . 
But see what clouds have gathered since we set out . 
I'm thinking we shall have more rain . 
It'll be a sore time for th' haymaking if the meadows are flooded again . 
The brook's fine and full now another day's rain 'ud cover the plank , and we should have to go round by the road . 
They were coming across the valley now , and had entered the pasture through which the brook ran . 
Why , what's that sticking against the willow ? continued Seth , beginning to walk faster . 
Adam's heart rose to his mouth the vague anxiety about his father was changed into a great dread . 
He made no answer to Seth , but ran forward preceded by Gyp , who began to bark uneasily and in two moments he was at the bridge . 
Adam was the first to speak . 
I'll run to Mother , he said , in a loud whisper . 
I'll be back to thee in a minute . 
Poor Lisbeth was busy preparing her sons' breakfast , and their porridge was already steaming on the fire . 
Her kitchen always looked the pink of cleanliness , but this morning she was more than usually bent on making her hearth and breakfast table look comfortable and inviting . 
The lads 'ull be fine an' hungry , she said , half aloud , as she stirred the porridge . 
It's a good step to Brox'on , an' it's hungry air o'er the hill wi' that heavy coffin too . 
Eh ! It's heavier now , wi' poor Bob Tholer in't . 
Howiver , I've made a drap more porridge nor common this mornin' . 
The feyther 'ull happen come in arter a bit . 
Not as he'll ate much porridge . 
Eh , poor mon , he takes it quiet enough there's no denyin' that . 
Hush , Mother , Adam said , rather hoarsely , don't be frightened . 
Father's tumbled into the water . 
Belike we may bring him round again . 
Seth and me are going to carry him in . 
Get a blanket and make it hot as the fire . 
He ran back to Seth , and the two sons lifted the sad burden in heart stricken silence . 
The wide open glazed eyes were grey , like Seth's , and had once looked with mild pride on the boys before whom Thias had lived to hang his head in shame . 
Seth's chief feeling was awe and distress at this sudden snatching away of his father's soul but Adam's mind rushed back over the past in a flood of relenting and pity . 
When death , the great Reconciler , has come , it is never our tenderness that we repent of , but our severity . 
A melancholy morning because it was nearly time hay harvest should begin , and instead of that the meadows were likely to be flooded . 
But people who have pleasant homes get indoor enjoyments that they would never think of but for the rain . 
Let me take you into that dining room and show you the Rev . 
Adolphus Irwine , Rector of Broxton , Vicar of Hayslope , and Vicar of Blythe , a pluralist at whom the severest Church reformer would have found it difficult to look sour . 
There , Dauphin , tell me what that is ! says this magnificent old lady , as she deposits her queen very quietly and folds her arms . 
I should be sorry to utter a word disagreeable to your feelings . 
Ah , you witch mother , you sorceress ! How is a Christian man to win a game off you ? I should have sprinkled the board with holy water before we began . 
You've not won that game by fair means , now , so don't pretend it . 
Yes , yes , that's what the beaten have always said of great conquerors . 
But see , there's the sunshine falling on the board , to show you more clearly what a foolish move you made with that pawn . 
Come , shall I give you another chance ? No , Mother , I shall leave you to your own conscience , now it's clearing up . 
But I must go upstairs first and see Anne . 
I was called away to Tholer's funeral just when I was going before . 
It's of no use , child she can't speak to you . 
Kate says she has one of her worst headaches this morning . 
Oh , she likes me to go and see her just the same she's never too ill to care about that . 
Splendid old ladies , who take a long time to dress in the morning , have often slight sympathy with sickly daughters . 
Let him be shown in here , said Mrs. Irwine , taking up her knitting . 
I always like to hear what Mr. Rann has got to say . 
His shoes will be dirty , but see that he wipes them Carroll . 
Never mind the dogs give them a friendly kick . 
Mr. Irwine was one of those men . 
If the outline had been less finely cut , his face might have been called jolly but that was not the right word for its mixture of bonhomie and distinction . 
I hope I see you an' Mrs. Irwine well , an' Miss Irwine an' Miss Anne , I hope's as well as usual . 
Yes , Joshua , thank you . 
You see how blooming my mother looks . 
She beats us younger people hollow . 
I was took by surprise , an' knowed nothin' on it beforehand , an' I was so flustered , I was clean as if I'd lost my tools . 
I hanna slep' more nor four hour this night as is past an' gone an' then it was nothin' but nightmare , as tired me worse nor wakin' . 
Not as I'm a dictatin' to you , sir I'm not forgettin' myself so far as to be wise above my betters . 
Preaching on the Green ! said Mr. Irwine , looking surprised but quite serene . 
It's a true word as I say , sir , rejoined Mr. Rann , compressing his mouth into a semicircular form and pausing long enough to indicate three notes of exclamation . 
She preached on the Green last night an' she's laid hold of Chad's Bess , as the girl's been i' fits welly iver sin' . 
Well , Bessy Cranage is a hearty looking lass I daresay she'll come round again , Joshua . 
Did anybody else go into fits ? No , sir , I canna say as they did . 
But there's no knowin' what'll come , if we're t' have such preachin's as that a goin' on ivery week there'll be no livin' i' th' village . 
Well , what's your advice , Joshua ? What do you think should be done ? Well , Your Reverence , I'm not for takin' any measures again' the young woman . 
She's well enough if she'd let alone preachin' an' I hear as she's a goin' away back to her own country soon . 
They might almost as well go and preach on the Binton Hills . 
Will Maskery is no preacher himself , I think . 
Nay , sir , he's no gift at stringin' the words together wi'out book he'd be stuck fast like a cow i' wet clay . 
You'll forgi'e me for sayin' such things over again . 
Better not , better not , Joshua . 
Let evil words die as soon as they're spoken . 
Will Maskery might be a great deal worse fellow than he is . 
If you can bring me any proof that he interferes with his neighbours and creates any disturbance , I shall think it my duty as a clergyman and a magistrate to interfere . 
We must 'live and let live , Joshua , in religion as well as in other things . 
Your Reverence is very good to say so an' I'm sensable as , you not livin' i' the parish , there's more upo' my shoulders . 
To be sure and you must mind and not lower the Church in people's eyes by seeming to be frightened about it for a little thing , Joshua . 
I shall trust to your good sense , now to take no notice at all of what Will Maskery says , either about you or me . 
And as to people saying a few idle words about us , we must not mind that , any more than the old church steeple minds the rooks cawing about it . 
Will Maskery comes to church every Sunday afternoon , and does his wheelwright's business steadily in the weekdays , and as long as he does that he must be let alone . 
An' he said as our Christmas singin' was no better nor the cracklin' o' thorns under a pot . 
Well , he's got a bad ear for music , Joshua . 
When people have wooden heads , you know , it can't be helped . 
He won't bring the other people in Hayslope round to his opinion , while you go on singing as well as you do . 
Yes , sir , but it turns a man's stomach t' hear the Scripture misused i' that way . 
I might as well take the Sacriment cup home and use it at meals . 
The young gentleman was Arthur Donnithorne , known in Hayslope , variously , as the young squire , the heir , and the captain . 
Turning round to take a chair , Captain Donnithorne said , But don't let me interrupt Joshua's business he has something to say . 
Humbly begging Your Honour's pardon , said Joshua , bowing low , there was one thing I had to say to His Reverence as other things had drove out o' my head . 
Out with it , Joshua , quickly ! said Mr. Irwine . 
Ah ! exclaimed both the gentlemen at once , as if they were a good deal interested in the information . 
To be sure , Joshua , to be sure , they shall have it . 
I'll ride round to Adam myself , and see him . 
Send your boy , however , to say they shall have the grave , lest anything should happen to detain me . 
And now , good morning , Joshua go into the kitchen and have some ale . 
Poor old Thias ! said Mr. Irwine , when Joshua was gone . 
I'm afraid the drink helped the brook to drown him . 
I should have been glad for the load to have been taken off my friend Adam's shoulders in a less painful way . 
That fine fellow has been propping up his father from ruin for the last five or six years . 
He's a regular trump , is Adam , said Captain Donnithorne . 
And I believe now he would bear the exaltation as well as any poor wise man in an Eastern story . 
If ever I live to be a large acred man instead of a poor devil with a mortgaged allowance of pocket money , I'll have Adam for my right hand . 
I've mentioned the subject to my grandfather once or twice , but for some reason or other he has a dislike to Adam , and I can do nothing . 
But come , Your Reverence , are you for a ride with me ? It's splendid out of doors now . 
We can go to Adam's together , if you like but I want to call at the Hall Farm on my way , to look at the whelps Poyser is keeping for me . 
You must stay and have lunch first , Arthur , said Mrs. Irwine . 
Carroll will bring it in directly . 
I want to go to the Hall Farm too , said Mr. Irwine , to have another look at the little Methodist who is staying there . 
Joshua tells me she was preaching on the Green last night . 
Oh , by Jove ! said Captain Donnithorne , laughing . 
Why , she looks as quiet as a mouse . 
There's something rather striking about her , though . 
Catherine in a Quaker dress . 
It's a type of face one rarely sees among our common people . 
I should like to see the young woman , Dauphin , said Mrs. Irwine . 
Make her come here on some pretext or other . 
You should have come in a little sooner , Arthur , to hear Joshua's denunciation of his neighbour Will Maskery . 
It is really insolent of the man , though , to call you an 'idle shepherd' and a 'dumb dog , said Mrs. Irwine . 
I should be inclined to check him a little there . 
You are too easy tempered , Dauphin . 
But come , let us have our luncheon . 
Isn't Kate coming to lunch ? Miss Irwine told Bridget to take her lunch upstairs , said Carroll she can't leave Miss Anne . 
Tell Bridget to say I'll go up and see Miss Anne presently . 
You can use your right arm quite well now , Arthur , Mr. Irwine continued , observing that Captain Donnithorne had taken his arm out of the sling . 
Yes , pretty well but Godwin insists on my keeping it up constantly for some time to come . 
I hope I shall be able to get away to the regiment , though , in the beginning of August . 
However , we are to astonish the echoes on the th of July . 
My grandfather has given me carte blanche for once , and I promise you the entertainment shall be worthy of the occasion . 
The world will not see the grand epoch of my majority twice . 
I mean to bring out my best brocade , that I wore at your christening twenty years ago , said Mrs. Irwine . 
She had set her heart on that , sweet soul ! Thank God you take after your mother's family , Arthur . 
If you had been a puny , wiry , yellow baby , I wouldn't have stood godmother to you . 
I should have been sure you would turn out a Donnithorne . 
But you were such a broad faced , broad chested , loud screaming rascal , I knew you were every inch of you a Tradgett . 
But you might have been a little too hasty there , Mother , said Mr. Irwine , smiling . 
Don't you remember how it was with Juno's last pups ? One of them was the very image of its mother , but it had two or three of its father's tricks notwithstanding . 
Nature is clever enough to cheat even you , Mother . 
Nonsense , child ! Nature never makes a ferret in the shape of a mastiff . 
You'll never persuade me that I can't tell what men are by their outsides . 
If I don't like a man's looks , depend upon it I shall never like HIM . 
I don't want to know people that look ugly and disagreeable , any more than I want to taste dishes that look disagreeable . 
If they make me shudder at the first glance , I say , take them away . 
An ugly , piggish , or fishy eye , now , makes me feel quite ill it's like a bad smell . 
Talking of eyes , said Captain Donnithorne , that reminds me that I've got a book I meant to bring you , Godmamma . 
It came down in a parcel from London the other day . 
I know you are fond of queer , wizardlike stories . 
It's a volume of poems , 'Lyrical Ballads . 
Most of them seem to be twaddling stuff , but the first is in a different style 'The Ancient Mariner' is the title . 
I can hardly make head or tail of it as a story , but it's a strange , striking thing . 
I'll send it over to you and there are some other books that you may like to see , Irwine pamphlets about Antinomianism and Evangelicalism , whatever they may be . 
I can't think what the fellow means by sending such things to me . 
I've written to him to desire that from henceforth he will send me no book or pamphlet on anything that ends in ISM . 
Well , I don't know that I'm very fond of isms myself but I may as well look at the pamphlets they let one see what is going on . 
I've a little matter to attend to , Arthur , continued Mr. Irwine , rising to leave the room , and then I shall be ready to set out with you . 
and made him pause before a door at which he knocked gently . 
But at present she was doing what required only the dimmest light sponging the aching head that lay on the pillow with fresh vinegar . 
It was a small face , that of the poor sufferer perhaps it had once been pretty , but now it was worn and sallow . 
Miss Kate came towards her brother and whispered , Don't speak to her she can't bear to be spoken to to day . 
Anne's eyes were closed , and her brow contracted as if from intense pain . 
But for all who saw them through a less mythical medium , the Miss Irwines were quite superfluous existences inartistic figures crowding the canvas of life without adequate effect . 
Nevertheless , to speak paradoxically , the existence of insignificant people has very important consequences in the world . 
And if that handsome , generous blooded clergyman , the Rev . 
And it is impossible for me to say that Mr. Irwine was altogether belied by the generic classification assigned him . 
His mental palate , indeed , was rather pagan , and found a savouriness in a quotation from Sophocles or Theocritus that was quite absent from any text in Isaiah or Amos . 
Such men , happily , have lived in times when great abuses flourished , and have sometimes even been the living representatives of the abuses . 
That is a thought which might comfort us a little under the opposite fact that it is better sometimes NOT to follow great reformers of abuses beyond the threshold of their homes . 
But the windows are patched with wooden panes , and the door , I think , is like the gate it is never opened . 
That is the furniture of the dining room . 
And what through the left hand window ? Several clothes horses , a pillion , a spinning wheel , and an old box wide open and stuffed full of coloured rags . 
Near it there is a little chair , and the butt end of a boy's leather long lashed whip . 
The history of the house is plain now . 
It was once the residence of a country squire , whose family , probably dwindling down to mere spinsterhood , got merged in the more territorial name of Donnithorne . 
It was once the Hall it is now the Hall Farm . 
But this blameless conduct , according to Mrs. Poyser , shrouded a secret indulgence of unbecoming wishes , which she now dragged forth and held up to Molly's view with cutting eloquence . 
Spinning , indeed ! It isn't spinning as you'd be at , I'll be bound , and let you have your own way . 
I never knew your equals for gallowsness . 
As poor a two fisted thing as ever I saw , you know you was . 
And as for spinning , why , you've wasted as much as your wage i' the flax you've spoiled learning to spin . 
And you've a right to feel that , and not to go about as gaping and as thoughtless as if you was beholding to nobody . 
I donna want to set eyes on the whittaws again I wish I may never stir if I do . 
Mr. Ottley's , indeed ! It's fine talking o' what you did at Mr. Ottley's . 
Your missis there might like her floors dirted wi' whittaws for what I know . 
Munny , my iron's twite told pease put it down to warm . 
Never mind ! Mother's done her ironing now . 
She's going to put the ironing things away . 
Munny , I tould 'ike to do into de barn to Tommy , to see de whittawd . 
No , no , no Totty 'ud get her feet wet , said Mrs. Poyser , carrying away her iron . 
Run into the dairy and see cousin Hetty make the butter . 
Did ever anybody see the like ? screamed Mrs. Poyser , running towards the table when her eye had fallen on the blue stream . 
The child's allays i' mischief if your back's turned a minute . 
But now she came and sat down opposite Dinah , whom she looked at in a meditative way , as she knitted her grey worsted stocking . 
You look th' image o' your Aunt Judith , Dinah , when you sit a sewing . 
Judith and me allays hung together , though she had such queer ways , but your mother and her never could agree . 
I allays said that o' Judith , as she'd bear a pound weight any day to save anybody else carrying a ounce . 
She was a blessed woman , said Dinah God had given her a loving , self forgetting nature , and He perfected it by grace . 
And she was very fond of you too , Aunt Rachel . 
I often heard her talk of you in the same sort of way . 
I don't know how , child anybody 'ud be cunning to do anything for you , I think you're like the birds o' th' air , and live nobody knows how . 
And there's linen in the house as I could well spare you , for I've got lots o' sheeting and table clothing , and towelling , as isn't made up . 
And all because you've got notions i' your head about religion more nor what's i' the Catechism and the Prayer book . 
But not more than what's in the Bible , Aunt , said Dinah . 
It stands to sense as that can't be the right religion . 
Nay , dear aunt , you never heard me say that all people are called to forsake their work and their families . 
Ah , said Mrs. Poyser , rising and walking towards the door , I know it 'ud be just the same if I was to talk to you for hours . 
You'd make me the same answer , at th' end . 
I might as well talk to the running brook and tell it to stan' still . 
I've said enough a'ready about your bringing such disgrace upo' your uncle's family . 
I've strong assurance that no evil will happen to you and my uncle and the children from anything I've done . 
I didn't preach without direction . 
Direction ! I know very well what you mean by direction , said Mrs. Poyser , knitting in a rapid and agitated manner . 
I hanna common patience with you . 
By this time the two gentlemen had reached the palings and had got down from their horses it was plain they meant to come in . 
Mrs. Poyser advanced to the door to meet them , curtsying low and trembling between anger with Dinah and anxiety to conduct herself with perfect propriety on the occasion . 
Well , Mrs. Poyser , how are you after this stormy morning ? said Mr. Irwine , with his stately cordiality . 
Our feet are quite dry we shall not soil your beautiful floor . 
Oh , sir , don't mention it , said Mrs. Poyser . 
I delight in your kitchen . 
I think it is the most charming room I know . 
I should like every farmer's wife to come and look at it for a pattern . 
Oh , you're pleased to say so , sir . 
Poyser is not at home , is he ? said Captain Donnithorne , seating himself where he could see along the short passage to the open dairy door . 
No , sir , he isn't he's gone to Rosseter to see Mr. West , the factor , about the wool . 
But there's Father i' the barn , sir , if he'd be of any use . 
No , thank you I'll just look at the whelps and leave a message about them with your shepherd . 
I must come another day and see your husband I want to have a consultation with him about horses . 
For if he's anywhere on the farm we can send for him in a minute . 
Things allays happen so contrairy , if they've a chance and it's an unnat'ral thing to have one bit o' your farm in one county and all the rest in another . 
Ah , the Scantlands would go much better with Choyce's farm , especially as he wants dairyland and you've got plenty . 
Oh , sir , said Mrs. Poyser , rather alarmed , you wouldn't like it at all . 
As for farming , it's putting money into your pocket wi' your right hand and fetching it out wi' your left . 
As fur as I can see , it's raising victual for other folks and just getting a mouthful for yourself and your children as you go along . 
But you know more about that than I do , sir . 
Why , that's a terrible picture , Mrs. Poyser . 
I think I should be doing you a service to turn you out of such a place . 
But there's no chance of that . 
I'm not likely to settle for the next twenty years , till I'm a stout gentleman of forty and my grandfather would never consent to part with such good tenants as you . 
And as I've said to my husband often and often , I'm sure if the captain had anything to do with it , it wouldn't be so . 
Mrs. Poyser , once launched into conversation , always sailed along without any check from her preliminary awe of the gentry . 
The confidence she felt in her own powers of exposition was a motive force that overcame all resistance . 
By the by , I've never seen your dairy I must see your dairy , Mrs. Poyser . 
This Mrs. Poyser said blushing , and believing that the captain was really interested in her milk pans , and would adjust his opinion of her to the appearance of her dairy . 
Oh , I've no doubt it's in capital order . 
Take me in , said the captain , himself leading the way , while Mrs. Poyser followed . 
Hetty Sorrel's was that sort of beauty . 
You know what is to happen then , and I shall expect you to be one of the guests who come earliest and leave latest . 
Hetty smiled and blushed , but before she could answer , Mrs. Poyser interposed , scandalized at the mere suggestion that the young squire could be excluded by any meaner partners . 
Indeed , sir , you are very kind to take that notice of her . 
And I'm sure , whenever you're pleased to dance with her , she'll be proud and thankful , if she stood still all the rest o' th' evening . 
Oh no , no , that would be too cruel to all the other young fellows who can dance . 
But you will promise me two dances , won't you ? the captain continued , determined to make Hetty look at him and speak to him . 
Hetty dropped the prettiest little curtsy , and stole a half shy , half coquettish glance at him as she said , Yes , thank you , sir . 
And you must bring all your children , you know , Mrs. Poyser your little Totty , as well as the boys . 
I want all the youngest children on the estate to be there all those who will be fine young men and women when I'm a bald old fellow . 
The captain was thought to be very full of his jokes , and was a great favourite throughout the estate on account of his free manners . 
But where is Totty to day ? he said . 
I want to see her . 
Where IS the little un , Hetty ? said Mrs. Poyser . 
She came in here not long ago . 
She went into the brewhouse to Nancy , I think . 
And do you carry the butter to market when you've made it ? said the Captain to Hetty , meanwhile . 
Oh no , sir not when it's so heavy . 
I'm not strong enough to carry it . 
Alick takes it on horseback . 
No , I'm sure your pretty arms were never meant for such heavy weights . 
Aunt doesn't like me to go a walking only when I'm going somewhere , said Hetty . 
But I go through the Chase sometimes . 
And don't you ever go to see Mrs. Best , the housekeeper ? I think I saw you once in the housekeeper's room . 
It isn't Mrs. Best , it's Mrs. Pomfret , the lady's maid , as I go to see . 
She's teaching me tent stitch and the lace mending . 
I'm going to tea with her to morrow afternoon . 
But now she appeared holding her mother's hand the end of her round nose rather shiny from a recent and hurried application of soap and water . 
Here she is ! said the captain , lifting her up and setting her on the low stone shelf . 
Here's Totty ! By the by , what's her other name ? She wasn't christened Totty . 
Oh , sir , we call her sadly out of her name . 
It's a name i' Mr. Poyser's family his grandmother was named Charlotte . 
But we began with calling her Lotty , and now it's got to Totty . 
To be sure it's more like a name for a dog than a Christian child . 
Why , she looks like a Totty . 
Has she got a pocket on ? said the captain , feeling in his own waistcoat pockets . 
Totty immediately with great gravity lifted up her frock , and showed a tiny pink pocket at present in a state of collapse . 
It dot notin' in it , she said , as she looked down at it very earnestly . 
No ! What a pity ! Such a pretty pocket . 
Well , I think I've got some things in mine that will make a pretty jingle in it . 
Yes ! I declare I've got five little round silver things , and hear what a pretty noise they make in Totty's pink pocket . 
It's being the youngest , and th' only gell . 
Oh , she's a funny little fatty I wouldn't have her different . 
But I must be going now , for I suppose the rector is waiting for me . 
With a good bye , a bright glance , and a bow to Hetty Arthur left the dairy . 
But he was mistaken in imagining himself waited for . 
You are only a visitor in this neighbourhood , I think ? were his first words , as he seated himself opposite to her . 
No , sir , I come from Snowfield , in Stonyshire . 
Ah , I remember Snowfield very well I once had occasion to go there . 
It's a dreary bleak place . 
They were building a cotton mill there but that's many years ago now . 
I suppose the place is a good deal changed by the employment that mill must have brought . 
It IS changed so far as the mill has brought people there , who get a livelihood for themselves by working in it , and make it better for the tradesfolks . 
I work in it myself , and have reason to be grateful , for thereby I have enough and to spare . 
But it's still a bleak place , as you say , sir very different from this country . 
But I'm not free to leave Snowfield , where I was first planted , and have grown deep into it , like the small grass on the hill top . 
And have you been long in the habit of preaching ? For I understand you preached at Hayslope last night . 
I first took to the work four years since , when I was twenty one . 
She had a great gift , and there are many others now living who are precious fellow helpers in the work of the ministry . 
I understand there's been voices raised against it in the Society of late , but I cannot but think their counsel will come to nought . 
It isn't for men to make channels for God's Spirit , as they make channels for the watercourses , and say , 'Flow here , but flow not there . 
But we are not without discipline and correction to put a check upon these things . 
There's a very strict order kept among us , and the brethren and sisters watch for each other's souls as they that must give account . 
But I had felt no call to preach , for when I'm not greatly wrought upon , I'm too much given to sit still and keep by myself . 
It seems as if I could sit silent all day long with the thought of God overflowing my soul as the pebbles lie bathed in the Willow Brook . 
And those were always times of great blessing , though I had never thought it could be so with me before a congregation of people . 
But , sir , we are led on , like the little children , by a way that we know not . 
I was called to preach quite suddenly , and since then I have never been left in doubt about the work that was laid upon me . 
But tell me the circumstances just how it was , the very day you began to preach . 
But he felt as he couldn't stand up to preach , and he was forced to lie down in the first of the cottages we came to . 
So I went to tell the people , thinking we'd go into one of the houses , and I would read and pray with them . 
And they all came round me out of all the cottages , and many wept over their sins , and have since been joined to the Lord . 
That was the beginning of my preaching , sir , and I've preached ever since . 
She stooped now to gather up her sewing , and then went on with it as before . 
Mr. Irwine was deeply interested . 
He said to himself , He must be a miserable prig who would act the pedagogue here one might as well go and lecture the trees for growing in their own shape . 
And you never feel any embarrassment from the sense of your youth that you are a lovely young woman on whom men's eyes are fixed ? he said aloud . 
No , I've no room for such feelings , and I don't believe the people ever take notice about that . 
THAT I can believe that I can well believe , said Mr. Irwine , emphatically . 
I had some private talk and prayer with her afterwards , and I trust her heart is touched . 
I think maybe it is because the promise is sweeter when this life is so dark and weary , and the soul gets more hungry when the body is ill at ease . 
Why , yes , our farm labourers are not easily roused . 
They take life almost as slowly as the sheep and cows . 
But we have some intelligent workmen about here . 
I daresay you know the Bedes Seth Bede , by the by , is a Methodist . 
Yes , I know Seth well , and his brother Adam a little . 
I'm going now to see Adam . 
Ah , their poor aged mother ! said Dinah , dropping her hands and looking before her with pitying eyes , as if she saw the object of her sympathy . 
She will mourn heavily , for Seth has told me she's of an anxious , troubled heart . 
I must go and see if I can give her any help . 
Mr. Irwine now rose also , and , advancing towards Dinah , held out his hand , and said , Good bye . 
I hear you are going away soon but this will not be the last visit you will pay your aunt so we shall meet again , I hope . 
Yes , thank you , Mrs. Poyser , except that Miss Anne has one of her bad headaches to day . 
By the by , we all liked that nice cream cheese you sent us my mother especially . 
I'm very glad , indeed , sir . 
It is but seldom I make one , but I remembered Mrs. Irwine was fond of 'em . 
Please to give my duty to her , and to Miss Kate and Miss Anne . 
Well , I'll tell her she must come and see them . 
Good bye , said the rector , mounting his horse . 
Just ride slowly on , Irwine , said Captain Donnithorne , mounting also . 
I'll overtake you in three minutes . 
I'm only going to speak to the shepherd about the whelps . 
Good bye , Mrs. Poyser tell your husband I shall come and have a long talk with him soon . 
Mrs. Poyser , however , though she noticed the bonnet , deferred remarking on it until she had disburdened herself of her surprise at Mr. Irwine's behaviour . 
I was quite drawn out to speak to him I hardly know how , for I had always thought of him as a worldly Sadducee . 
But his countenance is as pleasant as the morning sunshine . 
Pleasant ! And what else did y' expect to find him but pleasant ? said Mrs. Poyser impatiently , resuming her knitting . 
I should think his countenance is pleasant indeed ! And him a gentleman born , and's got a mother like a picter . 
You may go the country round and not find such another woman turned sixty six . 
But as for such creaturs as you Methodisses run after , I'd as soon go to look at a lot o' bare ribbed runts on a common . 
Fine folks they are to tell you what's right , as look as if they'd never tasted nothing better than bacon sword and sour cake i' their lives . 
But , dear aunt , don't think any more about that . 
He told me something that I'm sure will cause you sorrow , as it does me . 
Thias Bede was drowned last night in the Willow Brook , and I'm thinking that the aged mother will be greatly in need of comfort . 
Perhaps I can be of use to her , so I have fetched my bonnet and am going to set out . 
Sit down , child , and be easy , for you shan't stir out till you've had a cup o' tea , and so I tell you . 
, when Hetty came out of the dairy relieving her tired arms by lifting them up , and clasping her hands at the back of her head . 
Molly , she said , rather languidly , just run out and get me a bunch of dock leaves the butter's ready to pack up now . 
D' you hear what's happened , Hetty ? said her aunt . 
No how should I hear anything ? was the answer , in a pettish tone . 
But anybody besides yourself 'ud mind about such things happening to them as think a deal more of you than you deserve . 
But Adam Bede and all his kin might be drownded for what you'd care you'd be perking at the glass the next minute . 
Adam Bede drowned ? said Hetty , letting her arms fall and looking rather bewildered , but suspecting that her aunt was as usual exaggerating with a didactic purpose . 
No , my dear , no , said Dinah kindly , for Mrs. Poyser had passed on to the pantry without deigning more precise information . 
Adam's father , the old man , is drowned . 
He was drowned last night in the Willow Brook . 
Mr. Irwine has just told me about it . 
Hetty was quite used to the thought that people liked to look at her . 
Hetty was quite certain her uncle wanted her to encourage Adam , and would be pleased for her to marry him . 
It'll do you no good to sit in a spring cart o' your own , if you've got a soft to drive you he'll soon turn you over into the ditch . 
Even in the moments when she was most thoroughly conscious of his superiority to her other admirers , she had never brought herself to think of accepting him . 
But as to marrying Adam , that was a very different affair ! There was nothing in the world to tempt her to do that . 
She thought , if Adam had been rich and could have given her these things , she loved him well enough to marry him . 
She's a perfect Hebe and if I were an artist , I would paint her . 
It's amazing what pretty girls one sees among the farmers' daughters , when the men are such clowns . 
The little puss seems already to have airs enough to make a husband as miserable as it's a law of nature for a quiet man to be when he marries a beauty . 
Apropos of marrying , I hope our friend Adam will get settled , now the poor old man's gone . 
But when I mentioned the subject to Adam he looked uneasy and turned the conversation . 
I suppose the love making doesn't run smooth , or perhaps Adam hangs back till he's in a better position . 
He has independence of spirit enough for two men rather an excess of pride , if anything . 
That would be a capital match for Adam . 
He would slip into old Burge's shoes and make a fine thing of that building business , I'll answer for him . 
I should like to see him well settled in this parish he would be ready then to act as my grand vizier when I wanted one . 
We could plan no end of repairs and improvements together . 
I've never seen the girl , though , I think at least I've never looked at her . 
Look at her next Sunday at church she sits with her father on the left of the reading desk . 
You needn't look quite so much at Hetty Sorrel then . 
I pique myself on my wisdom there , Arthur , and as an old fellow to whom wisdom had become cheap , I bestow it upon you . 
It may stand me in good stead some day though I don't know that I have any present use for it . 
Bless me ! How the brook has overflowed . 
Suppose we have a canter , now we're at the bottom of the hill . 
That is the great advantage of dialogue on horseback it can be merged any minute into a trot or a canter , and one might have escaped from Socrates himself in the saddle . 
The two friends were free from the necessity of further conversation till they pulled up in the lane behind Adam's cottage . 
Chapter X Dinah Visits Lisbeth AT five o'clock Lisbeth came downstairs with a large key in her hand it was the key of the chamber where her husband lay dead . 
She had brought out her little store of bleached linen , which she had for long years kept in reserve for this supreme use . 
Then there had been the work of cleansing to the strictest purity every object in the sacred chamber , and of removing from it every trace of common daily occupation . 
And the aged peasant woman most of all believes that her dead are conscious . 
The kitchen had had none of her attention that day it was soiled with the tread of muddy shoes and untidy with clothes and other objects out of place . 
There was no one in the kitchen when Lisbeth entered and threw herself into the chair . 
She had forgotten his faults as we forget the sorrows of our departed childhood , and thought of nothing but the young husband's kindness and the old man's patience . 
What art goin' to do ? she said , rather peevishly . 
I want thee to have a cup of tea , Mother , answered Seth , tenderly . 
It'll do thee good and I'll put two or three of these things away , and make the house look more comfortable . 
Comfortable ! How canst talk o' ma'in' things comfortable ? Let a be , let a be . 
An' he war to die an' me not to know , but to be a sleepin' i' my bed , as if I caredna nought about it . 
Eh ! An' me to live to see that ! An' us as war young folks once , an' thought we should do rarely when we war married . 
Let a be , lad , let a be ! I wonna ha' no tay . 
I carena if I ne'er ate nor drink no more . 
When one end o' th' bridge tumbles down , where's th' use o' th' other stannin' ? I may's well die , an' foller my old man . 
There's no knowin' but he'll want me . 
Here Lisbeth broke from words into moans , swaying herself backwards and forwards on her chair . 
Seth overheard this , and coming into the kitchen again , as his mother rose from her chair , he said , Adam's asleep in the workshop , mother . 
Thee'dst better not wake him . 
He was o'erwrought with work and trouble . 
Wake him ? Who's a goin' to wake him ? I shanna wake him wi' lookin' at him . 
I hanna seen the lad this two hour I'd welly forgot as he'd e'er growed up from a babby when's feyther carried him . 
It seemed as if he had sat down for a few minutes' rest and had fallen asleep without slipping from his first attitude of sad , fatigued thought . 
His brow was knit , and his whole face had an expression of weariness and pain . 
The poor dog was hungry and restless , but would not leave his master , and was waiting impatiently for some change in the scene . 
But wherever Hetty came , his mother was sure to follow soon and when he opened his eyes , it was not at all startling to see her standing near him . 
Thy poor feyther 'ull ne'er anger thee no more an' thy mother may's well go arter him the sooner the better for I'm no good to nobody now . 
One old coat 'ull do to patch another , but it's good for nought else . 
Thee'dst like to ha' a wife to mend thy clothes an' get thy victual , better nor thy old mother . 
An' I shall be nought but cumber , a sittin' i' th' chimney corner . 
Eh , we should ha' been both flung away together , an' then I shouldna ha' seen this day , an' one buryin' 'ud ha' done for us both . 
Here Lisbeth paused , but Adam sat in pained silence he could not speak otherwise than tenderly to his mother to day , but he could not help being irritated by this plaint . 
Like all complaining women , she complained in the expectation of being soothed , and when Adam said nothing , she was only prompted to complain more bitterly . 
I know thee couldst do better wi'out me , for thee couldst go where thee likedst an' marry them as thee likedst . 
Adam , unable to bear this any longer , rose silently from the bench and walked out of the workshop into the kitchen . 
Adam turned round at once and said , Yes , mother let us go upstairs . 
Come , Seth , let us go together . 
They went upstairs , and for five minutes all was silence . 
Then the key was turned again , and there was a sound of footsteps on the stairs . 
But Adam did not come down again he was too weary and worn out to encounter more of his mother's querulous grief , and he went to rest on his bed . 
Lisbeth no sooner entered the kitchen and sat down than she threw her apron over her head , and began to cry and moan and rock herself as before . 
Lisbeth paused , in a listening attitude , without removing her apron from her face . 
The voice was strange to her . 
Could it be her sister's spirit come back to her from the dead after all those years ? She trembled and dared not look . 
Slowly Lisbeth drew down her apron , and timidly she opened her dim dark eyes . 
She saw nothing at first but a face a pure , pale face , with loving grey eyes , and it was quite unknown to her . 
Her wonder increased perhaps it WAS an angel . 
But in the same instant Dinah had laid her hand on Lisbeth's again , and the old woman looked down at it . 
Ye've got a'most the face o' one as is a sittin' on the grave i' Adam's new Bible . 
I come from the Hall Farm now . 
Ye'll make it out as trouble's a good thing , like HE allays does . 
But where's the use o' talkin' to me a that'n ? Ye canna make the smart less wi' talkin' . 
It would be hardness of heart to say that your trouble was not heavy to bear . 
God didn't send me to you to make light of your sorrow , but to mourn with you , if you will let me . 
You won't send me away ? You're not angry with me for coming ? Nay , nay angered ! who said I war angered ? It war good on you to come . 
Sit ye down sit ye down . 
I thank you kindly for comin' , for it's little wage ye get by walkin' through the wet fields to see an old woman like me . 
An' the lads 'ull be marryin' I shall ha' daughters eno' , an' too many . 
Nevertheless the joy of being with Dinah WOULD triumph it was like the influence of climate , which no resistance can overcome . 
And the feeling even suffused itself over his face so as to attract his mother's notice , while she was drinking her tea . 
Thee may'st well talk o' trouble bein' a good thing , Seth , for thee thriv'st on't . 
Thee look'st as if thee know'dst no more o' care an' cumber nor when thee wast a babby a lyin' awake i' th' cradle . 
For thee'dst allays lie still wi' thy eyes open , an' Adam ne'er 'ud lie still a minute when he wakened . 
Thee wast allays like a bag o' meal as can ne'er be bruised though , for the matter o' that , thy poor feyther war just such another . 
But ye've got the same look too . 
I reckon it's wi' bein' a Methody . 
Not as I'm a findin' faut wi' ye for't , for ye've no call to be frettin' , an' somehow ye looken sorry too . 
I could ha' gi'en 'em plenty for when I'd gotten my old man I war worreted from morn till night and now he's gone , I'd be glad for the worst o'er again . 
But now , dear friend , drink this other cup of tea and eat a little more . 
She had no children , for she was never married and she brought me up as tenderly as if I'd been her own child . 
Eh , she'd fine work wi' ye , I'll warrant , bringin' ye up from a babby , an' her a lone woman it's ill bringin' up a cade lamb . 
But I daresay ye warna franzy , for ye look as if ye'd ne'er been angered i' your life . 
The old woman listened , and forgot to be fretful , unconsciously subject to the soothing influence of Dinah's face and voice . 
Seth , meanwhile , went out to chop wood , for he surmised that Dinah would like to be left alone with his mother . 
Lisbeth sat watching her as she moved about in her still quick way , and said at last , Ye've got a notion o' cleanin' up . 
I wouldna mind ha'in ye for a daughter , for ye wouldna spend the lad's wage i' fine clothes an' waste . 
Ye're not like the lasses o' this countryside . 
I reckon folks is different at Snowfield from what they are here . 
But the heart of man is the same everywhere , and there are the children of this world and the children of light there as well as elsewhere . 
But we've many more Methodists there than in this country . 
I'd as lief look at a tooad . 
An' I'm thinkin' I wouldna mind if ye'd stay an' sleep here , for I should like to see ye i' th' house i' th' mornin' . 
But mayhappen they'll be lookin for ye at Mester Poyser's . 
No , said Dinah , they don't expect me , and I should like to stay , if you'll let me . 
Well , there's room I'n got my bed laid i' th' little room o'er the back kitchen , an' ye can lie beside me . 
I'd be glad to ha' ye wi' me to speak to i' th' night , for ye've got a nice way o' talkin' . 
It puts me i' mind o' the swallows as was under the thack last 'ear when they fust begun to sing low an' soft like i' th' mornin' . 
Eh , but my old man war fond o' them birds ! An' so war Adam , but they'n ne'er comed again this 'ear . 
Eh , that's a true word , said Lisbeth . 
Yea , my old man wonna come back to me , but I shall go to him the sooner the better . 
Well , ye may do as ye like wi' me there's a clean cap i' that drawer , an' I'll go i' the back kitchen an' wash my face . 
An' Seth , thee may'st reach down Adam's new Bible wi' th' picters in , an' she shall read us a chapter . 
Eh , I like them words 'I shall go to him , but he wonna come back to me . 
Dinah and Seth were both inwardly offering thanks for the greater quietness of spirit that had come over Lisbeth . 
This was what Dinah had been trying to bring about , through all her still sympathy and absence from exhortation . 
As Dinah expressed it , she was never left to herself but it was always given her when to keep silence and when to speak . 
And so there was earnest prayer there was faith , love , and hope pouring forth that evening in the littie kitchen . 
She couldn't understand the sorrow but , for these moments , under the subduing influence of Dinah's spirit , she felt that she must be patient and still . 
But already some one else was astir in the house , and had gone downstairs , preceded by Gyp . 
Seth , however , had only just awakened at the sound of the opening door . 
The white mist lay in the valley it was going to be a bright warm day , and he would start to work again when he had had his breakfast . 
He had just gone into the workshop when his quick ear detected a light rapid foot on the stairs certainly not his mother's . 
He had been in bed and asleep when Dinah had come in , in the evening , and now he wondered whose step this could be . 
A foolish thought came , and moved him strangely . 
As if it could be Hetty ! She was the last person likely to be in the house . 
And yet he felt reluctant to go and look and have the clear proof that it was some one else . 
He loosed the plank and went to the kitchen door . 
How do you do , Adam Bede ? said Dinah , in her calm treble , pausing from her sweeping and fixing her mild grave eyes upon him . 
I trust you feel rested and strengthened again to bear the burden and heat of the day . 
It was like dreaming of the sunshine and awaking in the moonlight . 
But now her slim figure , her plain black gown , and her pale serene face impressed him with all the force that belongs to a reality contrasted with a preoccupying fancy . 
A faint blush came , which deepened as she wondered at it . 
This blush recalled Adam from his forgetfulness . 
I hope my mother was thankful to have you , he added , wondering rather anxiously what had been Dinah's reception . 
Yes , said Dinah , resuming her work , she seemed greatly comforted after a while , and she's had a good deal of rest in the night , by times . 
She was fast asleep when I left her . 
Who was it took the news to the Hall Farm ? said Adam , his thoughts reverting to some one there he wondered whether SHE had felt anything about it . 
They'll look for you there as soon as you've got time to go , for there's nobody round that hearth but what's glad to see you . 
Love has a way of cheating itself consciously , like a child who plays at solitary hide and seek it is pleased with assurances that it all the while disbelieves . 
But you won't be there yourself any longer ? he said to Dinah . 
No , I go back to Snowfield on Saturday , and I shall have to set out to Treddleston early , to be in time for the Oakbourne carrier . 
So I must go back to the farm to night , that I may have the last day with my aunt and her children . 
But I can stay here all to day , if your mother would like me and her heart seemed inclined towards me last night . 
Ah , then , she's sure to want you to day . 
If mother takes to people at the beginning , she's sure to get fond of 'em but she's a strange way of not liking young women . 
Though , to be sure , Adam went on , smiling , her not liking other young women is no reason why she shouldn't like you . 
You see Gyp bids you welcome , said Adam , and he's very slow to welcome strangers . 
I can't help being sorry for the dogs always , though perhaps there's no need . 
But they may well have more in them than they know how to make us understand , for we can't say half what we feel , with all our words . 
Seth came down now , and was pleased to find Adam talking with Dinah he wanted Adam to know how much better she was than all other women . 
But after a few words of greeting , Adam drew him into the workshop to consult about the coffin , and Dinah went on with her cleaning . 
By six o'clock they were all at breakfast with Lisbeth in a kitchen as clean as she could have made it herself . 
Her new sensations seemed to exclude the remembrance of her grief . 
At last , after tasting the porridge , she broke silence Ye might ha' made the parridge worse , she said to Dinah I can ate it wi'out its turnin' my stomach . 
Makeshift , mother ? said Adam . 
Why , I think the house looks beautiful . 
I don't know how it could look better . 
Thee dostna know ? Nay how's thee to know ? Th' men ne'er know whether the floor's cleaned or cat licked . 
But thee'lt know when thee gets thy parridge burnt , as it's like enough to be when I'n gi'en o'er makin' it . 
Thee'lt think thy mother war good for summat then . 
Dinah , said Seth , do come and sit down now and have your breakfast . 
Aye , come an' sit ye down do , said Lisbeth , an' ate a morsel ye'd need , arter bein' upo' your legs this hour an' half a'ready . 
I could put up wi' ye i' th' house better nor wi' most folks . 
I'll stay till to night if you're willing , said Dinah . 
I'd stay longer , only I'm going back to Snowfield on Saturday , and I must be with my aunt to morrow . 
Eh , I'd ne'er go back to that country . 
Ah , said Adam , I remember father telling me when I was a little lad that he made up his mind if ever he moved it should be south'ard . 
But I'm not so sure about it . 
Bartle Massey says and he knows the South as the northern men are a finer breed than the southern , harder headed and stronger bodied , and a deal taller . 
And then he says in some o' those counties it's as flat as the back o' your hand , and you can see nothing of a distance without climbing up the highest trees . 
It makes you feel the world's a big place , and there's other men working in it with their heads and hands besides yourself . 
It seems to me as if that was heaven where there's always joy and sunshine , though this life's dark and cloudy . 
It makes less mouths for the scant cake . 
I'll ne'er rest i' my grave if I donna see thee i' the churchyard of a Sunday . 
Donna fear , mother , said Adam . 
If I hadna made up my mind not to go , I should ha' been gone before now . 
He had finished his breakfast now , and rose as he was speaking . 
What art goin' to do ? asked Lisbeth . 
Set about thy feyther's coffin ? No , mother , said Adam we're going to take the wood to the village and have it made there . 
Very well , mother , if that's thy wish , I'll make the coffin at home but I thought thee wouldstna like to hear the work going on . 
An' why shouldna I like 't ? It's the right thing to be done . 
An' what's liking got to do wi't ? It's choice o' mislikings is all I'n got i' this world . 
One morsel's as good as another when your mouth's out o' taste . 
Thee mun set about it now this mornin' fust thing . 
I wonna ha' nobody to touch the coffin but thee . 
Adam's eyes met Seth's , which looked from Dinah to him rather wistfully . 
No , Mother , he said , I'll not consent but Seth shall have a hand in it too , if it's to be done at home . 
I'll go to the village this forenoon , because Mr. Burge 'ull want to see me , and Seth shall stay at home and begin the coffin . 
I can come back at noon , and then he can go . 
Nay , nay , persisted Lisbeth , beginning to cry , I'n set my heart on't as thee shalt ma' thy feyther's coffin . 
Thee't so stiff an' masterful , thee't ne'er do as thy mother wants thee . 
Thee wast often angered wi' thy feyther when he war alive thee must be the better to him now he's gone . 
He'd ha' thought nothin' on't for Seth to ma's coffin . 
Say no more , Adam , say no more , said Seth , gently , though his voice told that he spoke with some effort Mother's in the right . 
I'll go to work , and do thee stay at home . 
Dinah said nothing , but presently used the opportunity of quietly joining the brothers in the workshop . 
Dinah looked as if she did not see Adam , and fixed her eyes on Seth's face , saying with calm kindness , I won't say farewell . 
I shall see you again when you come from work . 
So as I'm at the farm before dark , it will be quite soon enough . 
Thank you , Dinah I should like to walk home with you once more . 
It'll perhaps be the last time . 
There was a little tremor in Seth's voice . 
Dinah put out her hand and said , You'll have sweet peace in your mind to day , Seth , for your tenderness and long suffering towards your aged mother . 
She turned round and left the workshop as quickly and quietly as she had entered it . 
Adam had been observing her closely all the while , but she had not looked at him . 
As soon as she was gone , he said , I don't wonder at thee for loving her , Seth . 
She's got a face like a lily . 
But she doesna love me , lad , only as one child o' God loves another . 
She'll never love any man as a husband that's my belief . 
Nay , lad , there's no telling thee mustna lose heart . 
She's made out o' stuff with a finer grain than most o' the women I can see that clear enough . 
But if she's better than they are in other things , I canna think she'll fall short of 'em in loving . 
Seth set out to the village , and Adam began his work on the coffin . 
God help the lad , and me too , he thought , as he lifted the board . 
We're like enough to find life a tough job hard work inside and out . 
It's a mystery we can give no account of but no more we can of the sprouting o' the seed , for that matter . 
I mean to go to Eagledale and fish for a week or so , he said aloud . 
I shall take you with me , Pym , and set off this morning so be ready by half past eleven . 
Not an heroic strain nevertheless Arthur felt himself very heroic as he strode towards the stables to give his orders about the horses . 
His own approbation was necessary to him , and it was not an approbation to be enjoyed quite gratuitously it must be won by a fair amount of merit . 
He had never yet forfeited that approbation , and he had considerable reliance on his own virtues . 
It was not possible for Arthur Donnithorne to do anything mean , dastardly , or cruel . 
No ! I'm a devil of a fellow for getting myself into a hobble , but I always take care the load shall fall on my own shoulders . 
It was entirely owing to this deficiency in the scheme of things that Arthur had ever brought any one into trouble besides himself . 
His hearty affection for the rector dated from the age of frocks and trousers . 
You perceive that Arthur Donnithorne was a good fellow all his college friends thought him such . 
It would be ridiculous to be prying and analytic in such cases , as if one were inquiring into the character of a confidential clerk . 
The chances are that he will go through life without scandalizing any one a seaworthy vessel that no one would refuse to insure . 
But we have no fair ground for entertaining unfavourable auguries concerning Arthur Donnithorne , who this morning proves himself capable of a prudent resolution founded on conscience . 
He will never be a courtier of Vice , and wear her orders in his button hole . 
It was about ten o'clock , and the sun was shining brilliantly everything was looking lovelier for the yesterday's rain . 
It is a pleasant thing on such a morning to walk along the well rolled gravel on one's way to the stables , meditating an excursion . 
There was no having his own way in the stables everything was managed in the stingiest fashion . 
He could never speak quite patiently to the old blockhead . 
You must have Meg saddled for me and brought to the door at half past eleven , and I shall want Rattler saddled for Pym at the same time . 
Do you hear ? Yes , I hear , I hear , Cap'n , said old John very deliberately , following the young master into the stable . 
John considered a young master as the natural enemy of an old servant , and young people in general as a poor contrivance for carrying on the world . 
Arthur went in for the sake of patting Meg , declining as far as possible to see anything in the stables , lest he should lose his temper before breakfast . 
The pretty creature was in one of the inner stables , and turned her mild head as her master came beside her . 
Little Trot , a tiny spaniel , her inseparable companion in the stable , was comfortably curled up on her back . 
Well , Meg , my pretty girl , said Arthur , patting her neck , we'll have a glorious canter this morning . 
Nay , your honour , I donna see as that can be , said John . 
Not be ? Why not ? Why , she's got lamed . 
The judicious historian abstains from narrating precisely what ensued . 
He considered himself thoroughly disappointed and annoyed . 
There was not another mount in the stable for himself and his servant besides Meg and Rattler . 
It was vexatious just when he wanted to get out of the way for a week or two . 
It seemed culpable in Providence to allow such a combination of circumstances . 
Salkeld would have drunk a bottle of port every day , he muttered to himself , but I'm not well seasoned enough for that . 
Well , since I can't go to Eagledale , I'll have a gallop on Rattler to Norburne this morning , and lunch with Gawaine . 
Behind this explicit resolution there lay an implicit one . 
As for any real harm in Hetty's case , it was out of the question Arthur Donnithorne accepted his own bond for himself with perfect confidence . 
So the twelve o'clock sun saw him galloping towards Norburne and by good fortune Halsell Common lay in his road and gave him some fine leaps for Rattler . 
But I believe there have been men since his day who have ridden a long way to avoid a rencontre , and then galloped hastily back lest they should miss it . 
An' I wish he'd get the devil to do's grooming for'n , growled John . 
It was because he had made a serious affair of an idle matter , by thinking of it as if it were of any consequence . 
He would amuse himself by seeing Hetty to day , and get rid of the whole thing from his mind . 
It was all Irwine's fault . 
If Irwine had said nothing , I shouldn't have thought half so much of Hetty as of Meg's lameness . 
However , it was just the sort of day for lolling in the Hermitage , and he would go and finish Dr . 
Moore's Zeluco there before dinner . 
The Hermitage stood in Fir tree Grove the way Hetty was sure to come in walking from the Hall Farm . 
So nothing could be simpler and more natural meeting Hetty was a mere circumstance of his walk , not its object . 
It was along the broadest of these paths that Arthur Donnithorne passed , under an avenue of limes and beeches . 
Ah ! There she comes . 
Arthur turned round and walked by Hetty's side without giving a reason . 
They were alone together for the first time . 
What an overpowering presence that first privacy is ! He actually dared not look at this little butter maker for the first minute or two . 
Yes , sir , Hetty answered , with a tremulous , almost whispering voice . 
She didn't know one bit how to speak to a gentleman like Mr. Arthur , and her very vanity made her more coy of speech . 
Do you come every week to see Mrs. Pomfret ? Yes , sir , every Thursday , only when she's got to go out with Miss Donnithorne . 
What ! are YOU going to be a lady's maid ? I should like to be one very much indeed . 
Hetty spoke more audibly now , but still rather tremulously she thought , perhaps she seemed as stupid to Captain Donnithorne as Luke Britton did to her . 
I suppose Mrs. Pomfret always expects you at this time ? She expects me at four o'clock . 
I'm rather late to day , because my aunt couldn't spare me but the regular time is four , because that gives us time before Miss Donnithorne's bell rings . 
Ah , then , I must not keep you now , else I should like to show you the Hermitage . 
Did you ever see it ? No , sir . 
This is the walk where we turn up to it . 
But we must not go now . 
I'll show it you some other time , if you'd like to see it . 
Yes , please , sir . 
My aunt would be angry with me if I didn't get home before nine . 
Perhaps Craig , the gardener , comes to take care of you ? A deep blush overspread Hetty's face and neck . 
Then she felt ashamed to death that she was crying , and for one long instant her happiness was all gone . 
But in the next she felt an arm steal round her , and a gentle voice said , Why , Hetty , what makes you cry ? I didn't mean to vex you . 
I wouldn't vex you for the world , you little blossom . 
Come , don't cry look at me , else I shall think you won't forgive me . 
Arthur had laid his hand on the soft arm that was nearest to him , and was stooping towards Hetty with a look of coaxing entreaty . 
Hetty lifted her long dewy lashes , and met the eyes that were bent towards her with a sweet , timid , beseeching look . 
You will be expected at the house . 
Arthur too was very uneasy , but his feelings were lit up for him by a more distinct consciousness . 
He was getting in love with Hetty that was quite plain . 
He was ready to pitch everything else no matter where for the sake of surrendering himself to this delicious feeling which had just disclosed itself . 
He MUST NOT see her alone again he must keep out of her way . 
The soft air did not help his resolution , as he leaned out and looked into the leafy distance . 
But he considered his resolution sufficiently fixed there was no need to debate with himself any longer . 
He wondered if the dear little thing were thinking of him too twenty to one she was . 
He would behave in a quiet , kind way to her just to prevent her from going home with her head full of wrong fancies . 
Yes , that would be the best thing to do after all . 
It was a long while more than an hour before Arthur had brought his meditations to this point but once arrived there , he could stay no longer at the Hermitage . 
The time must be filled up with movement until he should see Hetty again . 
And it was already late enough to go and dress for dinner , for his grandfather's dinner hour was six . 
Even Mrs. Pomfret's preoccupied mind did not prevent her from noticing what looked like a new flush of beauty in the little thing as she tied on her hat before the looking glass . 
That child gets prettier and prettier every day , I do believe , was her inward comment . 
She'll get neither a place nor a husband any the sooner for it . 
Sober well to do men don't like such pretty wives . 
When I was a girl , I was more admired than if I had been so very pretty . 
However , she's reason to be grateful to me for teaching her something to get her bread with , better than farm house work . 
Hetty walked hastily across the short space of pleasure ground which she had to traverse , dreading to meet Mr. Craig , to whom she could hardly have spoken civilly . 
She only saw something that was possible Mr. Arthur Donnithorne coming to meet her again along the Fir tree Grove . 
That was the foreground of Hetty's picture behind it lay a bright hazy something days that were not to be as the other days of her life had been . 
It was as if she had been wooed by a river god , who might any time take her to his wondrous halls below a watery heaven . 
There was no knowing what would come , since this strange entrancing delight had come . 
She is at another gate now that leading into Fir tree Grove . 
She enters the wood , where it is already twilight , and at every step she takes , the fear at her heart becomes colder . 
She reaches the first turning towards the Hermitage , walking slowly he is not there . 
She hates the leveret that runs across the path she hates everything that is not what she longs for . 
She walks on , happy whenever she is coming to a bend in the road , for perhaps he is behind it . 
He is going to see Hetty again that is the longing which has been growing through the last three hours to a feverish thirst . 
If Hetty had known he was there , she would not have cried and it would have been better , for then Arthur would perhaps have behaved as wisely as he had intended . 
As it was , she started when he appeared at the end of the side alley , and looked up at him with two great drops rolling down her cheeks . 
Hetty was blushing so , she didn't know whether she was happy or miserable . 
Not before a great drop had fallen on her rose coloured strings she knew that quite well . 
Come , be cheerful again . 
Smile at me , and tell me what's the matter . 
Hetty turned her head towards him , whispered , I thought you wouldn't come , and slowly got courage to lift her eyes to him . 
That look was too much he must have had eyes of Egyptian granite not to look too lovingly in return . 
This is not what he meant to say . 
There was no speaking for minutes after . 
They walked along with beating hearts till they came within sight of the gate at the end of the wood . 
Then they looked at each other , not quite as they had looked before , for in their eyes there was the memory of a kiss . 
But already something bitter had begun to mingle itself with the fountain of sweets already Arthur was uncomfortable . 
He took his arm from Hetty's waist , and said , Here we are , almost at the end of the Grove . 
I wonder how late it is , he added , pulling out his watch . 
Twenty minutes past eight but my watch is too fast . 
However , I'd better not go any further now . 
Trot along quickly with your little feet , and get home safely . 
He took her hand , and looked at her half sadly , half with a constrained smile . 
Hetty's eyes seemed to beseech him not to go away yet but he patted her cheek and said Good bye again . 
She was obliged to turn away from him and go on . 
As for Arthur , he rushed back through the wood , as if he wanted to put a wide space between himself and Hetty . 
He would not go to the Hermitage again he remembered how he had debated with himself there before dinner , and it had all come to nothing worse than nothing . 
He walked right on into the Chase , glad to get out of the Grove , which surely was haunted by his evil genius . 
He was feeling much more strongly than he had done in the morning it was as if his horse had wheeled round from a leap and dared to dispute his mastery . 
He was dissatisfied with himself , irritated , mortified . 
He could no more believe that he should so fall in his own esteem than that he should break both his legs and go on crutches all the rest of his life . 
He couldn't imagine himself in that position it was too odious , too unlike him . 
And even if no one knew anything about it , they might get too fond of each other , and then there could be nothing but the misery of parting , after all . 
No gentleman , out of a ballad , could marry a farmer's niece . 
There must be an end to the whole thing at once . 
And yet he had been so determined this morning , before he went to Gawaine's and while he was there something had taken hold of him and made him gallop back . 
There was no knowing what impulse might seize him to morrow , in this confounded place , where there was nothing to occupy him imperiously through the livelong day . 
What could he do to secure himself from any more of this folly ? There was but one resource . 
He would go and tell Irwine tell him everything . 
The mere act of telling it would make it seem trivial the temptation would vanish , as the charm of fond words vanishes when one repeats them to the indifferent . 
In every way it would help him to tell Irwine . 
He would ride to Broxton Rectory the first thing after breakfast to morrow . 
Arthur had no sooner come to this determination than he began to think which of the paths would lead him home , and made as short a walk thither as he could . 
He felt sure he should sleep now he had had enough to tire him , and there was no more need for him to think . 
Eh , I'm loath to see the last on her , she said to Adam , as they turned into the house again . 
I'd ha' been willin' t' ha' her about me till I died and went to lie by my old man . 
She'd make it easier dyin' she spakes so gentle an' moves about so still . 
I could be fast sure that pictur' was drawed for her i' thy new Bible th' angel a sittin' on the big stone by the grave . 
Eh , I wouldna mind ha'in a daughter like that but nobody ne'er marries them as is good for aught . 
Well , Mother , I hope thee WILT have her for a daughter for Seth's got a liking for her , and I hope she'll get a liking for Seth in time . 
Where's th' use o' talkin' a that'n ? She caresna for Seth . 
She's goin' away twenty mile aff . 
How's she to get a likin' for him , I'd like to know ? No more nor the cake 'ull come wi'out the leaven . 
Thy figurin' books might ha' tould thee better nor that , I should think , else thee mightst as well read the commin print , as Seth allays does . 
Nay , Mother , said Adam , laughing , the figures tell us a fine deal , and we couldn't go far without 'em , but they don't tell us about folks's feelings . 
It's a nicer job to calculate THEM . 
But Seth's as good hearted a lad as ever handled a tool , and plenty o' sense , and good looking too and he's got the same way o' thinking as Dinah . 
He deserves to win her , though there's no denying she's a rare bit o' workmanship . 
You don't see such women turned off the wheel every day . 
Eh , thee't allays stick up for thy brother . 
Thee'st been just the same , e'er sin' ye war little uns together . 
Thee wart allays for halving iverything wi' him . 
But what's Seth got to do with marryin' , as is on'y three an' twenty ? He'd more need to learn an' lay by sixpence . 
An' as for his desarving her she's two 'ear older nor Seth she's pretty near as old as thee . 
But that's the way folks mun allays choose by contrairies , as if they must be sorted like the pork a bit o' good meat wi' a bit o' offal . 
They , too , like Hetty , had lingered a little in their walk , for Dinah was trying to speak words of comfort and strength to Seth in these parting moments . 
But when they saw Hetty , they paused and shook hands Seth turned homewards , and Dinah came on alone . 
Seth Bede would have come and spoken to you , my dear , she said , as she reached Hetty , but he's very full of trouble to night . 
Dinah took her hand now and drew it under her own arm . 
You look very happy to night , dear child , she said . 
I shall think ot you often when I'm at Snowfield , and see your face before me as it is now . 
And so I feel sure you will come before me . 
She paused a moment , but Hetty said nothing . 
It has been a very precious time to me , Dinah went on , last night and to day seeing two such good sons as Adam and Seth Bede . 
They are so tender and thoughtful for their aged mother . 
And I'm sure he has a loving spirit too . 
And the babies always seem to like the strong arm best . 
I feel sure it would be so with Adam Bede . 
Dinah saw she was not inclined to talk , but there would not have been time to say much more , for they were now at the yard gate . 
It was about twenty minutes after sunset . 
Why , lasses , ye're rather late to night , he said , when they reached the little gate leading into the causeway . 
The mother's begun to fidget about you , an' she's got the little un ill . 
An' how did you leave the old woman Bede , Dinah ? Is she much down about the old man ? He'd been but a poor bargain to her this five year . 
She's been greatly distressed for the loss of him , said Dinah , but she's seemed more comforted to day . 
Her son Adam's been at home all day , working at his father's coffin , and she loves to have him at home . 
She's been talking about him to me almost all the day . 
She has a loving heart , though she's sorely given to fret and be fearful . 
I wish she had a surer trust to comfort her in her old age . 
Adam's sure enough , said Mr. Poyser , misunderstanding Dinah's wish . 
There's no fear but he'll yield well i' the threshing . 
He's not one o' them as is all straw and no grain . 
I'll be bond for him any day , as he'll be a good son to the last . 
Did he say he'd be coming to see us soon ? But come in , come in , he added , making way for them I hadn't need keep y' out any longer . 
The tall buildings round the yard shut out a good deal of the sky , but the large window let in abundant light to show every corner of the house place . 
Mrs. Poyser , seated in the rocking chair , which had been brought out of the right hand parlour , was trying to soothe Totty to sleep . 
What a time o' night this is to come home , Hetty ! said Mrs. Poyser . 
But folks as have no mind to be o' use have allays the luck to be out o' the road when there's anything to be done . 
I did set out before eight , aunt , said Hetty , in a pettish tone , with a slight toss of her head . 
But this clock's so much before the clock at the Chase , there's no telling what time it'll be when I get here . 
An' I reckon YOU could eat a bit , Dinah , for they don't keep much of a house down there . 
No , thank you , Uncle , said Dinah I ate a good meal before I came away , for Mrs. Bede would make a kettle cake for me . 
I don't want any supper , said Hetty , taking off her hat . 
I can hold Totty now , if Aunt wants me . 
Why , what nonsense that is to talk ! said Mrs. Poyser . 
Hetty complied silently by going towards the pantry , and Mrs. Poyser went on speaking to Dinah . 
Sit down , my dear , an' look as if you knowed what it was to make yourself a bit comfortable i' the world . 
I warrant the old woman was glad to see you , since you stayed so long . 
Aye , it's ill livin' in a hen roost for them as doesn't like fleas , said Mrs. Poyser . 
We've all had our turn at bein' young , I reckon , be't good luck or ill . 
It isn't right for old nor young nayther to make a bargain all o' their own side . 
What's good for one's good all round i' the long run . 
I'm no friend to young fellows a marrying afore they know the difference atween a crab an' a apple but they may wait o'er long . 
To be sure , said Mrs. Poyser if you go past your dinner time , there'll be little relish o' your meat . 
You turn it o'er an' o'er wi' your fork , an' don't eat it after all . 
You find faut wi' your meat , an' the faut's all i' your own stomach . 
Hetty now came back from the pantry and said , I can take Totty now , Aunt , if you like . 
It's time thee wast in bed . 
Thee't bring on the pain in thy side again . 
Well , she may hold her if the child 'ull go to her , said Mrs. Poyser . 
Wilt go to Cousin Hetty , my dilling , while mother gets ready to go to bed ? Then Totty shall go into Mother's bed , and sleep there all night . 
Then , without speaking , she nestled to her mother again . 
Hey , hey , said Mr. Poyser , while Hetty stood without moving , not go to Cousin Hetty ? That's like a babby . 
Totty's a little woman , an' not a babby . 
It's no use trying to persuade her , said Mrs. Poyser . 
She allays takes against Hetty when she isn't well . 
Happen she'll go to Dinah . 
Dinah , having taken off her bonnet and shawl , had hitherto kept quietly seated in the background , not liking to thrust herself between Hetty and what was considered Hetty's proper work . 
You may make the door fast now , Poyser Alick's been come in this long while , said Mrs. Poyser , rising with an appearance of relief from her low chair . 
Get me the matches down , Hetty , for I must have the rushlight burning i' my room . 
Mrs. Poyser then led the way out of the kitchen , followed by the gandfather , and Dinah with Totty in her arms all going to bed by twilight , like the birds . 
Come , Hetty , get to bed , said Mr. Poyser , in a soothing tone , as he himself turned to go upstairs . 
You didna mean to be late , I'll be bound , but your aunt's been worrited to day . 
Good night , my wench , good night . 
A queer old looking glass ! Hetty got into an ill temper with it almost every time she dressed . 
But devout worshippers never allow inconveniences to prevent them from performing their religious rites , and Hetty this evening was more bent on her peculiar form of worship than usual . 
Then she drew forth a bundle of matches and lighted the candles and last of all , a small red framed shilling looking glass , without blotches . 
It was into this small glass that she chose to look first after seating herself . 
She looked into it , smiling and turning her head on one side , for a minute , then laid it down and took out her brush and comb from an upper drawer . 
She was going to let down her hair , and make herself look like that picture of a lady in Miss Lydia Donnithorne's dressing room . 
It was soon done , and the dark hyacinthine curves fell on her neck . 
It was not heavy , massive , merely rippling hair , but soft and silken , running at every opportunity into delicate rings . 
But she pushed it all backward to look like the picture , and form a dark curtain , throwing into relief her round white neck . 
Then she put down her brush and comb and looked at herself , folding her arms before her , still like the picture . 
Oh yes ! She was very pretty . 
The vainest woman is never thoroughly conscious of her own beauty till she is loved by the man who sets her own passion vibrating in return . 
It was an old old scarf , full of rents , but it would make a becoming border round her shoulders , and set off the whiteness of her upper arm . 
They were but coloured glass and gilding , but if you didn't know what they were made of , they looked just as well as what the ladies wore . 
And so she sat down again , with the large ear rings in her ears , and the black lace scarf adjusted round her shoulders . 
The doctor had told her aunt all about it in Hetty's hearing . 
He might have been earth born , for what she knew . 
It had never entered her mind that he had been young like other men he had always been the old Squire at whom everybody was frightened . 
The dear , young , round , soft , flexible thing ! Her heart must be just as soft , her temper just as free from angles , her character just as pliant . 
If anything ever goes wrong , it must be the husband's fault there he can make her what he likes that is plain . 
Every man under such circumstances is conscious of being a great physiognomist . 
Nature , he knows , has a language of her own , which she uses with strict veracity , and he considers himself an adept in the language . 
It is a marriage such as they made in the golden age , when the men were all wise and majestic and the women all lovely and loving . 
It was very much in this way that our friend Adam Bede thought about Hetty only he put his thoughts into different words . 
No people who love downy peaches are apt not to think of the stone , and sometimes jar their teeth terribly against it . 
Arthur Donnithorne , too , had the same sort of notion about Hetty , so far as he had thought of her nature of all . 
He felt sure she was a dear , affectionate , good little thing . 
God made these dear women so and it is a convenient arrangement in case of sickness . 
After all , I believe the wisest of us must be beguiled in this way sometimes , and must think both better and worse of people than they deserve . 
But if , in the reaction of disgust , I have betaken myself to a fishy eye , there has been a surprising similarity of result . 
Hetty could have cast all her past life behind her and never cared to be reminded of it again . 
Hetty did not understand how anybody could be very fond of middle aged people . 
And there was no end to the making and mending of clothes . 
To think o' that dear cherub ! And we found her wi' her little shoes stuck i' the mud an' crying fit to break her heart by the far horse pit . 
But Hetty never minded it , I could see , though she's been at the nussin' o' the child ever since it was a babby . 
It's my belief her heart's as hard as a pebble . 
Nay , nay , said Mr. Poyser , thee mustn't judge Hetty too hard . 
Them young gells are like the unripe grain they'll make good meal by and by , but they're squashy as yet . 
Thee't see Hetty 'll be all right when she's got a good husband and children of her own . 
I don't want to be hard upo' the gell . 
She's got cliver fingers of her own , and can be useful enough when she likes and I should miss her wi' the butter , for she's got a cool hand . 
Wi' them three gells in the house I'd need have twice the strength to keep 'em up to their work . 
It's like having roast meat at three fires as soon as you've basted one , another's burnin' . 
Hetty stood sufficiently in awe of her aunt to be anxious to conceal from her so much of her vanity as could be hidden without too great a sacrifice . 
To prevent such a surprise , she always bolted her door , and she had not forgotten to do so to night . 
It was well for there now came a light tap , and Hetty , with a leaping heart , rushed to blow out the candles and throw them into the drawer . 
She dared not stay to take out her ear rings , but she threw off her scarf , and let it fall on the floor , before the light tap came again . 
Dinah delighted in her bedroom window . 
Being on the second story of that tall house , it gave her a wide view over the fields . 
The thickness of the wall formed a broad step about a yard below the window , where she could place her chair . 
She liked the pasture best where the milch cows were lying , and next to that the meadow where the grass was half mown , and lay in silvered sweeping lines . 
She thought of all the dear people whom she had learned to care for among these peaceful fields , and who would now have a place in her loving remembrance for ever . 
She closed her eyes , that she might feel more intensely the presence of a Love and Sympathy deeper and more tender than was breathed from the earth and sky . 
That was often Dinah's mode of praying in solitude . 
She rose and listened , but all was quiet afterwards , and she reflected that Hetty might merely have knocked something down in getting into bed . 
It was in this way that Dinah's imagination and sympathy acted and reacted habitually , each heightening the other . 
She felt a deep longing to go now and pour into Hetty's ear all the words of tender warning and appeal that rushed into her mind . 
But perhaps Hetty was already asleep . 
Dinah put her ear to the partition and heard still some slight noises , which convinced her that Hetty was not yet in bed . 
Dinah was not satisfied without a more unmistakable guidance than those inward voices . 
There was light enough for her , if she opened her Bible , to discern the text sufficiently to know what it would say to her . 
She knew the physiognomy of every page , and could tell on what book she opened , sometimes on what chapter , without seeing title or number . 
It was a small thick Bible , worn quite round at the edges . 
Dinah laid it sideways on the window ledge , where the light was strongest , and then opened it with her forefinger . 
The first words she looked at were those at the top of the left hand page And they all wept sore , and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him . 
That was enough for Dinah she had opened on that memorable parting at Ephesus , when Paul had felt bound to open his heart in a last exhortation and warning . 
She hesitated no longer , but , opening her own door gently , went and tapped on Hetty's . 
We know she had to tap twice , because Hetty had to put out her candles and throw off her black lace scarf but after the second tap the door was opened immediately . 
Dinah said , Will you let me come in , Hetty ? and Hetty , without speaking , for she was confused and vexed , opened the door wider and let her in . 
They were nearly of the same height Dinah evidently a little the taller as she put her arm round Hetty's waist and kissed her forehead . 
Dinah sat down , and Hetty began to brush together her hair before twisting it up , doing it with that air of excessive indifference which belongs to confused self consciousness . 
But the expression of Dinah's eyes gradually relieved her they seemed unobservant of all details . 
Will you remember it , Hetty ? Yes , said Hetty , rather frightened . 
Dinah paused and released Hetty's hands that she might not hinder her . 
Hetty sat quite still she felt no response within herself to Dinah's anxious affection but Dinah's words uttered with solemn pathetic distinctness , affected her with a chill fear . 
Her flush had died away almost to paleness she had the timidity of a luxurious pleasure seeking nature , which shrinks from the hint of pain . 
It is our habit to say that while the lower nature can never understand the higher , the higher nature commands a complete view of the lower . 
Dinah had never seen Hetty affected in this way before , and , with her usual benignant hopefulness , she trusted it was the stirring of a divine impulse . 
She kissed the sobbing thing , and began to cry with her for grateful joy . 
She pushed her away impatiently , and said , with a childish sobbing voice , Don't talk to me so , Dinah . 
Why do you come to frighten me ? I've never done anything to you . 
Why can't you let me be ? Poor Dinah felt a pang . 
She was too wise to persist , and only said mildly , Yes , my dear , you're tired I won't hinder you any longer . 
Make haste and get into bed . 
As for Hetty , she was soon in the wood again her waking dreams being merged in a sleeping life scarcely more fragmentary and confused . 
One can say everything best over a meal . 
The progress of civilization has made a breakfast or a dinner an easy and cheerful substitute for more troublesome and disagreeable ceremonies . 
We take a less gloomy view of our errors now our father confessor listens to us over his egg and coffee . 
We are more distinctly conscious that rude penances are out of the question for gentlemen in an enlightened age , and that mortal sin is not incompatible with an appetite for muffins . 
Adam looked round as he heard the quickening clatter of the horse's heels , and waited for the horseman , lifting his paper cap from his head with a bright smile of recognition . 
Next to his own brother Seth , Adam would have done more for Arthur Donnithorne than for any other young man in the world . 
The word gentleman had a spell for Adam , and , as he often said , he couldn't abide a fellow who thought he made himself fine by being coxy to's betters . 
Thus there was both respect and affection in the smile with which he raised his paper cap as Arthur Donnithorne rode up . 
Well , Adam , how are you ? said Arthur , holding out his hand . 
He never shook hands with any of the farmers , and Adam felt the honour keenly . 
I could swear to your back a long way off . 
It's just the same back , only broader , as when you used to carry me on it . 
Do you remember ? Aye , sir , I remember . 
It 'ud be a poor look out if folks didn't remember what they did and said when they were lads . 
We should think no more about old friends than we do about new uns , then . 
You're going to Broxton , I suppose ? said Arthur , putting his horse on at a slow pace while Adam walked by his side . 
Are you going to the rectory ? No , sir , I'm going to see about Bradwell's barn . 
They're afraid of the roof pushing the walls out , and I'm going to see what can be done with it before we send the stuff and the workmen . 
Why , Burge trusts almost everything to you now , Adam , doesn't he ? I should think he will make you his partner soon . 
He will , if he's wise . 
Nay , sir , I don't see as he'd be much the better off for that . 
A foreman , if he's got a conscience and delights in his work , will do his business as well as if he was a partner . 
I wouldn't give a penny for a man as 'ud drive a nail in slack because he didn't get extra pay for it . 
I know that , Adam I know you work for him as well as if you were working for yourself . 
But you would have more power than you have now , and could turn the business to better account perhaps . 
The old man must give up his business sometime , and he has no son I suppose he'll want a son in law who can take to it . 
But he has rather grasping fingers of his own , I fancy . 
I daresay he wants a man who can put some money into the business . 
If I were not as poor as a rat , I would gladly invest some money in that way , for the sake of having you settled on the estate . 
I'm sure I should profit by it in the end . 
And perhaps I shall be better off in a year or two . 
I shall have a larger allowance now I'm of age and when I've paid off a debt or two , I shall be able to look about me . 
You're very good to say so , sir , and I'm not unthankful . 
But Adam continued , in a decided tone I shouldn't like to make any offers to Mr. Burge , or t' have any made for me . 
I see no clear road to a partnership . 
If he should ever want to dispose of the business , that 'ud be a different matter . 
I should be glad of some money at a fair interest then , for I feel sure I could pay it off in time . 
When is your father to be buried ? On Sunday , sir Mr. Irwine's coming earlier on purpose . 
I shall be glad when it's over , for I think my mother 'ull perhaps get easier then . 
It cuts one sadly to see the grief of old people they've no way o' working it off , and the new spring brings no new shoots out on the withered tree . 
Ah , you've had a good deal of trouble and vexation in your life , Adam . 
I don't think you've ever been hare brained and light hearted , like other youngsters . 
You've always had some care on your mind . 
Why , yes , sir but that's nothing to make a fuss about . 
If we're men and have men's feelings , I reckon we must have men's troubles . 
He's helped me to knowledge I could never ha' got by myself . 
What a rare fellow you are , Adam ! said Arthur , after a pause , in which he had looked musingly at the big fellow walking by his side . 
I could hit out better than most men at Oxford , and yet I believe you would knock me into next week if I were to have a baltle with you . 
God forbid I should ever do that , sir , said Adam , looking round at Arthur and smiling . 
I used to fight for fun , but I've never done that since I was the cause o' poor Gil Tranter being laid up for a fortnight . 
I'll never fight any man again , only when he behaves like a scoundrel . 
If you get hold of a chap that's got no shame nor conscience to stop him , you must try what you can do by bunging his eyes up . 
Arthur did not laugh , for he was preoccupied with some thought that made him say presently , I should think now , Adam , you never have any struggles within yourself . 
I don't remember ever being see saw in that way , when I'd made my mind up , as you say , that a thing was wrong . 
It takes the taste out o' my mouth for things , when I know I should have a heavy conscience after 'em . 
I've seen pretty clear , ever since I could cast up a sum , as you can never do what's wrong without breeding sin and trouble more than you can ever see . 
It's like a bit o' bad workmanship you never see th' end o' the mischief it'll do . 
And it's a poor look out to come into the world to make your fellow creatures worse off instead o' better . 
But there's a difference between the things folks call wrong . 
I'm not for making a sin of every little fool's trick , or bit o' nonsense anybody may be let into , like some o' them dissenters . 
And a man may have two minds whether it isn't worthwhile to get a bruise or two for the sake of a bit o' fun . 
But it isn't my way to be see saw about anything I think my fault lies th' other way . 
When I've said a thing , if it's only to myself , it's hard for me to go back . 
Yes , that's just what I expected of you , said Arthur . 
You've got an iron will , as well as an iron arm . 
But however strong a man's resolution may be , it costs him something to carry it out , now and then . 
We may determine not to gather any cherries and keep our hands sturdily in our pockets , but we can't prevent our mouths from watering . 
That's true , sir , but there's nothing like settling with ourselves as there's a deal we must do without i' this life . 
It's no use looking on life as if it was Treddles'on Fair , where folks only go to see shows and get fairings . 
If we do , we shall find it different . 
But where's the use o' me talking to you , sir ? You know better than I do . 
I'm not so sure of that , Adam . 
You've had four or five years of experience more than I've had , and I think your life has been a better school to you than college has been to me . 
Why , sir , you seem to think o' college something like what Bartle Massey does . 
He says college mostly makes people like bladders just good for nothing but t' hold the stuff as is poured into 'em . 
But he's got a tongue like a sharp blade , Bartle has it never touches anything but it cuts . 
Here's the turning , sir . 
I must bid you good morning , as you're going to the rectory . 
Good bye , Adam , good bye . 
Arthur gave his horse to the groom at the rectory gate , and walked along the gravel towards the door which opened on the garden . 
He knew that the rector always breakfasted in his study , and the study lay on the left hand of this door , opposite the dining room . 
Hallo , Arthur , that's a good fellow ! You're just in time , said Mr. Irwine , as Arthur paused and stepped in over the low window sill . 
It was a tempting morning for a ride before breakfast , said Arthur and I used to like breakfasting with you so when I was reading with you . 
My grandfather is always a few degrees colder at breakfast than at any other hour in the day . 
I think his morning bath doesn't agree with him . 
Arthur was anxious not to imply that he came with any special purpose . 
However , it must come out in an unpremeditated way the conversation might lead up to it . 
I like breakfast time better than any other moment in the day , said Mr. Irwine . 
No dust has settled on one's mind then , and it presents a clear mirror to the rays of things . 
Besides , one wants the stimulus of sympathy , and I have never had that since poor D'Oyley left Treddleston . 
If you had stuck to your books well , you rascal , I should have had a pleasanter prospect before me . 
But scholarship doesn't run in your family blood . 
It's well if I can remember a little inapplicable Latin to adorn my maiden speech in Parliament six or seven years hence . 
'Cras ingens iterabimus aequor , and a few shreds of that sort , will perhaps stick to me , and I shall arrange my opinions so as to introduce them . 
But I don't think a knowledge of the classics is a pressing want to a country gentleman as far as I can see , he'd much better have a knowledge of manures . 
I should like to know all the labourers , and see them touching their hats to me with a look of goodwill . 
And whenever you enter on your career of model landlord may I be there to see . 
You'll want a portly rector to complete the picture , and take his tithe of all the respect and honour you get by your hard work . 
Only don't set your heart too strongly on the goodwill you are to get in consequence . 
I'm not sure that men are the fondest of those who try to be useful to them . 
You know Gawaine has got the curses of the whole neighbourhood upon him about that enclosure . 
You must make it quite clear to your mind which you are most bent upon , old boy popularity or usefulness else you may happen to miss both . 
Oh ! Gawaine is harsh in his manners he doesn't make himself personally agreeable to his tenants . 
I don't believe there's anything you can't prevail on people to do with kindness . 
For my part , I couldn't live in a neighbourhood where I was not respected and beloved . 
And if fair allowances were made to them , and their buildings attended to , one could persuade them to farm on a better plan , stupid as they are . 
Then mind you fall in love in the right place , and don't get a wife who will drain your purse and make you niggardly in spite of yourself . 
My mother and I have a little discussion about you sometimes she says , 'I ll never risk a single prophecy on Arthur until I see the woman he falls in love with . 
She thinks your lady love will rule you as the moon rules the tides . 
But I feel bound to stand up for you , as my pupil you know , and I maintain that you're not of that watery quality . 
So mind you don't disgrace my judgment . 
Arthur winced under this speech , for keen old Mrs. Irwine's opinion about him had the disagreeable effect of a sinister omen . 
This , to be sure , was only another reason for persevering in his intention , and getting an additional security against himself . 
Nevertheless , at this point in the conversation , he was conscious of increased disinclination to tell his story about Hetty . 
No ! He would not be vacillating again he WOULD do what he had meant to do , this time . 
So it would be well not to let the personal tone of the conversation altogether drop . 
If they went to quite indifferent topics , his difficulty would be heightened . 
A fine constitution doesn't insure one against smallpox or any other of those inevitable diseases . 
A man may be very firm in other matters and yet be under a sort of witchery from a woman . 
The smile that flitted across Arthur's face was a faint one , and instead of following Mr. Irwine's playful lead , he said , quite seriously Yes , that's the worst of it . 
It's a desperately vexatious thing , that after all one's reflections and quiet determinations , we should be ruled by moods that one can't calculate on beforehand . 
I don't think a man ought to be blamed so much if he is betrayed into doing things in that way , in spite of his resolutions . 
Ah , but the moods lie in his nature , my boy , just as much as his reflections did , and more . 
A man can never do anything at variance with his own nature . 
Well , but one may be betrayed into doing things by a combination of circumstances , which one might never have done otherwise . 
Our deeds carry their terrible consequences , quite apart from any fluctuations that went before consequences that are hardly ever confined to ourselves . 
And it is best to fix our minds on that certainty , instead of considering what may be the elements of excuse for us . 
He really suspected that Arthur wanted to tell him something , and thought of smoothing the way for him by this direct question . 
Brought suddenly and involuntarily to the brink of confession , Arthur shrank back and felt less disposed towards it than ever . 
He was conscious of colouring , and was annoyed at his boyishness . 
Oh no , no danger , he said as indifferently as he could . 
I don't know that I am more liable to irresolution than other people only there are little incidents now and then that set one speculating on what might happen in the future . 
In a piece of machinery , too , I believe there is often a small unnoticeable wheel which has a great deal to do with the motion of the large obvious ones . 
The human soul is a very complex thing . 
His honest , patronizing pride in the good will and respect of everybody about him was a safeguard even against foolish romance , still more against a lower kind of folly . 
Don't you think you should get up something of the same sort to astonish our weak minds ? The opportunity was gone . 
While Arthur was hesitating , the rope to which he might have clung had drifted away he must trust now to his own swimming . 
Book Two Chapter XVII In Which the Story Pauses a Little THIS Rector of Broxton is little better than a pagan ! I hear one of my readers exclaim . 
Certainly I could , if I held it the highest vocation of the novelist to represent things as they never have been and never will be . 
Ten to one , you would have thought him a tasteless , indiscreet , methodistical man . 
The world is not just what we like do touch it up with a tasteful pencil , and make believe it is not quite such a mixed entangled affair . 
Let all people who hold unexceptionable opinions act unexceptionably . 
Let your most faulty characters always be on the wrong side , and your virtuous ones on the right . 
Then we shall see at a glance whom we are to condemn and whom we are to approve . 
Then we shall be able to admire , without the slightest disturbance of our prepossessions we shall hate and despise with that true ruminant relish which belongs to undoubting confidence . 
Falsehood is so easy , truth so difficult . 
It is for this rare , precious quality of truthfulness that I delight in many Dutch paintings , which lofty minded people despise . 
Yet there is a great deal of family love amongst us . 
Yes ! Thank God human feeling is like the mighty rivers that bless the earth it does not wait for beauty it flows with resistless force and brings beauty with it . 
All honour and reverence to the divine beauty of form ! Let us cultivate it to the utmost in men , women , and children in our gardens and in our houses . 
But let us love that other beauty too , which lies in no secret of proportion , but in the secret of deep human sympathy . 
There are few prophets in the world few sublimely beautiful women few heroes . 
Neither are picturesque lazzaroni or romantic criminals half so frequent as your common labourer , who gets his own bread and eats it vulgarly but creditably with his own pocket knife . 
And so I come back to Mr. Irwine , with whom I desire you to be in perfect charity , far as he may be from satisfying your demands on the clerical character . 
But , said Adam , I've seen pretty clear , ever since I was a young un , as religion's something else besides notions . 
It isn't notions sets people doing the right thing it's feelings . 
Somehow , the congregation began to fall off , and people began to speak light o' Mr. Ryde . 
That's a sore mischief I've often seen with the poor curates jumping into a bit of a living all of a sudden . 
He was very knowing about doctrines , and used to call 'em the bulwarks of the Reformation but I've always mistrusted that sort o' learning as leaves folks foolish and unreasonable about business . 
And he behaved as much like a gentleman to the farmers , and th' old women , and the labourers , as he did to the gentry . 
You never saw HIM interfering and scolding , and trying to play th' emperor . 
Ah , he was a fine man as ever you set eyes on and so kind to's mother and sisters . 
That poor sickly Miss Anne he seemed to think more of her than of anybody else in the world . 
Those are things as you can't bottle up in a 'do this' and 'do that' and I'll go so far with the strongest Methodist ever you'll find . 
That shows me there's deep speritial things in religion . 
You can't make much out wi' talking about it , but you feel it . 
Mr. Irwine didn't go into those things he preached short moral sermons , and that was all . 
And he made folks love him and respect him , and that was better nor stirring up their gall wi' being overbusy . 
He preached a deal about doctrines . 
But I've seen pretty clear , ever since I was a young un , as religion's something else besides doctrines and notions . 
I couldn't help laughing then , but as I was going home , I thought the man wasn't far wrong . 
You may talk o' these things for hours on end , and you'll only be all the more coxy and conceited for't . 
So I took to going nowhere but to church , and hearing nobody but Mr. Irwine , for he said notning but what was good and what you'd be the wiser for remembering . 
And I found it better for my soul to be humble before the mysteries o' God's dealings , and not be making a clatter about what I could never understand . 
I confess I have often meanly shrunk from confessing to these accomplished and acute gentlemen what my own experience has been . 
Human converse , I think some wise man has remarked , is not rigidly sincere . 
Ten to one most of the small shopkeepers in their vicinity saw nothing at all in them . 
And I'd ever such work to make her stand still . 
Hetty was coming downstairs , and Mrs. Poyser , in her plain bonnet and shawl , was standing below . 
If ever a girl looked as if she had been made of roses , that girl was Hetty in her Sunday hat and frock . 
For her hat was trimmed with pink , and her frock had pink spots , sprinkled on a white ground . 
There was nothing but pink and white about her , except in her dark hair and eyes and her little buckled shoes . 
Mrs. Poyser was provoked at herself , for she could hardly keep from smiling , as any mortal is inclined to do at the sight of pretty round things . 
And now the little procession set off . 
You might have known it was Sunday if you had only waked up in the farmyard . 
The sunshine seemed to call all things to rest and not to labour . 
Alick was of opinion that church , like other luxuries , was not to be indulged in often by a foreman who had the weather and the ewes on his mind . 
Church ! Nay I'n gotten summat else to think on , was an answer which he often uttered in a tone of bitter significance that silenced further question . 
But he had a general impression that public worship and religious ceremonies , like other non productive employments , were intended for people who had leisure . 
There's Father a standing at the yard gate , said Martin Poyser . 
I reckon he wants to watch us down the field . 
It's wonderful what sight he has , and him turned seventy five . 
Ah , I often think it's wi' th' old folks as it is wi' the babbies , said Mrs. Poyser they're satisfied wi' looking , no matter what they're looking at . 
It's God A'mighty's way o' quietening 'em , I reckon , afore they go to sleep . 
They'll ha' putten Thias Bede i' the ground afore ye get to the churchyard , he said , as his son came up . 
Aye , aye , said the son , I'm in hopes it'll hold up now . 
Dood bye , Dandad , said Totty . 
Me dot my netlace on . 
Why , thee't not like the women in general , said Mr. Poyser they like the shorthorns , as give such a lot o' milk . 
There's Chowne's wife wants him to buy no other sort . 
What's it sinnify what Chowne's wife likes ? A poor soft thing , wi' no more head piece nor a sparrow . 
She'd take a big cullender to strain her lard wi' , and then wonder as the scratchin's run through . 
And then she talks o' the weather bein' i' fault , as there's folks 'ud stand on their heads and then say the fault was i' their boots . 
There's shapes ! An' she's got such a long foot , she'll be her father's own child . 
Aye , she'll be welly such a one as Hetty i' ten years' time , on'y she's got THY coloured eyes . 
I niver remember a blue eye i' my family my mother had eyes as black as sloes , just like Hetty's . 
The child 'ull be none the worse for having summat as isn't like Hetty . 
An' I'm none for having her so overpretty . 
Though for the matter o' that , there's people wi' light hair an' blue eyes as pretty as them wi' black . 
Nay , nay , said Mr. Poyser , with rather a contemptuous emphasis , thee dostna know the pints of a woman . 
The men 'ud niver run after Dinah as they would after Hetty . 
I niver said as a woman had need to be ugly to make a good missis of a house . 
There's Chowne's wife ugly enough to turn the milk an' save the rennet , but she'll niver save nothing any other way . 
You'd be thinking he might do well enough on a half empty stomach . 
Eh , I wonder where she is this blessed Sunday ! Sitting by that sick woman , I daresay , as she'd set her heart on going to all of a sudden . 
If Hetty gets married , theed'st like to ha' Dinah wi' thee constant . 
It's no use thinking o' that , said Mrs. Poyser . 
You might as well beckon to the flying swallow as ask Dinah to come an' live here comfortable , like other folks . 
But I'll niver give in as that's 'cause she's a Methodist , no more nor a white calf's white 'cause it eats out o' the same bucket wi' a black un . 
Nay , said Mr. Poyser , with as near an approach to a snarl as his good nature would allow I'm no opinion o' the Methodists . 
It's on'y tradesfolks as turn Methodists you nuver knew a farmer bitten wi' them maggots . 
There's maybe a workman now an' then , as isn't overclever at's work , takes to preachin' an' that , like Seth Bede . 
But you see Adam , as has got one o' the best head pieces hereabout , knows better he's a good Churchman , else I'd never encourage him for a sweetheart for Hetty . 
Why , goodness me , said Mrs. Poyser , who had looked back while her husband was speaking , look where Molly is with them lads ! They're the field's length behind us . 
How COULD you let 'em do so , Hetty ? Anybody might as well set a pictur' to watch the children as you . 
Run back and tell 'em to come on . 
Then there was a little greenfinch , just fledged , fluttering along the ground , and it seemed quite possible to catch it , till it managed to flutter under the blackberry bush . 
I saw it first , looking after the greenfinch , and she sat on th' nest . 
You didn't frighten her , I hope , said the mother , else she'll forsake it . 
We must go straight on now . 
Good boys don't look after the birds of a Sunday . 
But , Mother , said Marty , you said you'd give half a crown to find the speckled turkey's nest . 
Mayn't I have the half crown put into my money box ? We'll see about that , my lad , if you walk along now , like a good boy . 
The father and mother exchanged a significant glance of amusement at their eldest born's acuteness but on Tommy's round face there was a cloud . 
Mother , he said , half crying , Marty's got ever so much more money in his box nor I've got in mine . 
Munny , me want half a toun in my bots , said Totty . 
It a'most makes your fingers itch to be at the hay now the sun shines so , he observed , as they passed through the Big Meadow . 
But it's poor foolishness to think o' saving by going against your conscience . 
An' what's he come to ? Why , I saw him myself last market day a carrying a basket wi' oranges in't . 
Ah , to be sure , said Mrs. Poyser , emphatically , you make but a poor trap to catch luck if you go and bait it wi' wickedness . 
The money as is got so's like to burn holes i' your pocket . 
I'd niver wish us to leave our lads a sixpence but what was got i' the rightful way . 
And as for the weather , there's One above makes it , and we must put up wi't it's nothing of a plague to what the wenches are . 
It was not entirely to see Thias Bede's funeral that the people were standing about the churchyard so long before service began that was their common practice . 
Chad Cranage looks like quite a new acquaintance to day , for he has got his clean Sunday face , which always makes his little granddaughter cry at him as a stranger . 
The talk was in rather a lower tone than usual to day , hushed a little by the sound of Mr. Irwine's voice reading the final prayers of the burial service . 
This subject of conversation was an additional reason for not being loud , since Satchell himself might presently be walking up the paved road to the church door . 
And soon they became suddenly silent for Mr. Irwine's voice had ceased , and the group round the white thorn was dispersing itself towards the church . 
They all moved aside , and stood with their hats off , while Mr. Irwine passed . 
Yet she cried less to day than she had done any day since her husband's death . 
She felt this counter excitement to her sorrow still more strongly as she walked with her sons towards the church door , and saw the friendly sympathetic nods of their fellow parishioners . 
It was free , indeed , from the modern blemish of galleries . 
For none of the old people held books why should they ? Not one of them could read . 
Melodies die out , like the pipe of Pan , with the ears that love them and listen for them . 
I think , as Mr. Irwine looked round to day , his eyes rested an instant longer than usual on the square pew occupied by Martin Poyser and his family . 
And there was another pair of dark eyes that found it impossible not to wander thither , and rest on that round pink and white figure . 
When she heard the church door swinging , her heart beat so , she dared not look up . 
She felt that her aunt was curtsying she curtsied herself . 
No , he was not there yet she would look now she might be mistaken for , after all , she had not looked . 
The chill disappointment was too hard to bear . 
She felt herself turning pale , her lips trembling she was ready to cry . 
Oh , what SHOULD she do ? Everybody would know the reason they would know she was crying because Arthur was not there . 
And Mr. Craig , with the wonderful hothouse plant in his button hole , was staring at her , she knew . 
It was dreadfully long before the General Confession began , so that she could kneel down . 
Two great drops WOULD fall then , but no one saw them except good natured Molly , for her aunt and uncle knelt with their backs towards her . 
It donna smell , she whispered , thinking this was a great advantage which old salts had over fresh ones they did you good without biting your nose . 
Adam Bede thought so , as he glanced at her for a moment on rising from his knees . 
It was the reading of our friend Joshua Rann . 
Where that good shoemaker got his notion of reading from remained a mystery even to his most intimate acquaintances . 
This may seem a strange mode of speaking about the reading of a parish clerk a man in rusty spectacles , with stubbly hair , a large occiput , and a prominent crown . 
Joshua himself was less proud of his reading than of his singing , and it was always with a sense of heightened importance that he passed from the desk to the choir . 
Moreover , Bartle Massey was not at church , and Joshua's importance in the choir suffered no eclipse . 
It was a solemn minor strain they sang . 
The mother and sons listened , each with peculiar feelings . 
The more there was said about her husband , the more there was done for him , surely the safer he would be . 
It was poor Lisbeth's blind way of feeling that human love and pity are a ground of faith in some other love . 
And there went plenty o' pride and temper to the strokes , as the devil WILL be having his finger in what we call our duties as well as our sins . 
Mayhap the best thing I ever did in my life was only doing what was easiest for myself . 
So was the sermon , which Mr. Irwine had chosen with reference to Thias's funeral . 
Aye , aye , said Mr. Poyser they wonna have long to wait for one another then , anyhow . 
Eh , said Lisbeth , it's poor luck for the platter to wear well when it's broke i' two . 
The sooner I'm laid under the thorn the better . 
I'm no good to nobody now . 
Adam never took notice of his mother's little unjust plaints but Seth said , Nay , Mother , thee mustna say so . 
Thy sons 'ull never get another mother . 
There's One above knows better nor us . 
Ah , said Mrs. Poyser , an' it's poor work allays settin' the dead above the livin' . 
We shall all on us be dead some time , I reckon it 'ud be better if folks 'ud make much on us beforehand , i'stid o' beginnin' when we're gone . 
It's but little good you'll do a watering the last year's crop . 
Yet in her secret heart she was glad to have him by her side , for she would perhaps learn from him how it was Arthur had not come to church . 
Moreover , Mr. Craig was a man of sober passions , and was already in his tenth year of hesitation as to the relative advantages of matrimony and bachelorhood . 
For the rest , Mr. Craig was an estimable gardener , and was not without reasons for having a high opinion of himself . 
He had also high shoulders and high cheek bones and hung his head forward a little , as he walked along with his hands in his breeches pockets . 
But a gardener is Scotch , as a French teacher is Parisian . 
Well , Mr. Poyser , he said , before the good slow farmer had time to speak , ye'll not be carrying your hay to morrow , I'm thinking . 
The glass sticks at 'change , and ye may rely upo' my word as we'll ha' more downfall afore twenty four hours is past . 
It's right o'er Mike Holdsworth's fallow , and a foul fallow it is . 
Well , you mark my words , as that cloud 'ull spread o'er the sky pretty nigh as quick as you'd spread a tarpaulin over one o' your hay ricks . 
It's a great thing to ha' studied the look o' the clouds . 
Lord bless you ! Th' met'orological almanecks can learn me nothing , but there's a pretty sight o' things I could let THEM up to , if they'd just come to me . 
And how are you , Mrs. Poyser ? thinking o' getherin' the red currants soon , I reckon . 
You'd a deal better gether 'em afore they're o'erripe , wi' such weather as we've got to look forward to . 
How do ye do , Mistress Bede ? Mr. Craig continued , without a pause , nodding by the way to Adam and Seth . 
I hope y' enjoyed them spinach and gooseberries as I sent Chester with th' other day . 
If ye want vegetables while ye're in trouble , ye know where to come to . 
I should like to see some o' them fellows as make the almanecks looking as far before their noses as I've got to do every year as comes . 
They look pretty fur , though , said Mr. Poyser , turning his head on one side and speaking in rather a subdued reverential tone . 
Why , th' cock's France , an' th' anchor's Nelson an' they told us that beforehand . 
Pee ee eh ! said Mr. Craig . 
A man doesna want to see fur to know as th' English 'ull beat the French . 
Why , I know upo' good authority as it's a big Frenchman as reaches five foot high , an' they live upo' spoon meat mostly . 
I knew a man as his father had a particular knowledge o' the French . 
I should like to know what them grasshoppers are to do against such fine fellows as our young Captain Arthur . 
Where IS the captain , as he wasna at church to day ? said Adam . 
I was talking to him o' Friday , and he said nothing about his going away . 
But he's fond o' getting away for a bit , now and then . 
Him and th' old squire fit one another like frost and flowers . 
The gardener , too , would have had to turn off in the same direction if he had not accepted Mr. Poyser's invitation to tea . 
For it appeared that his absence was quite voluntary he need not have gone he would not have gone if he had wanted to see her . 
Chapter XIX Adam on a Working Day NOTWITHSTANDING Mr. Craig's prophecy , the dark blue cloud dispersed itself without having produced the threatened consequences . 
It's one o' them chancy things as fools thrive on . 
This unreasonable behaviour of the weather , however , could displease no one else in Hayslope besides Mr. Craig . 
Men's muscles move better when their souls are making merry music , though their merriment is of a poor blundering sort , not at all like the merriment of birds . 
This little walk was a rest to Adam , and he was unconsciously under the charm of the moment . 
It was summer morning in his heart , and he saw Hetty in the sunshine a sunshine without glare , with slanting rays that tremble between the delicate shadows of the leaves . 
It was impossible for Adam not to feel that what had happened in the last week had brought the prospect of marriage nearer to him . 
She was like a kitten , and had the same distractingly pretty looks , that meant nothing , for everybody that came near her . 
He did not like to part wi' th' lad they had hardly every been separated for more than a day since they were born . 
But Adam had no sooner caught his imagination leaping forward in this way making arrangements for an uncertain future than he checked himself . 
A pretty building I'm making , without either bricks or timber . 
I'm up i' the garret a'ready , and haven't so much as dug the foundation . 
Perhaps here lay the secret of the hardness he had accused himself of he had too little fellow feeling with the weakness that errs in spite of foreseen consequences . 
But it was Adam's strength , not its correlative hardness , that influenced his meditations this morning . 
that he had not enough money beforehand to furnish even a small cottage , and keep something in reserve against a rainy day . 
Yes , he would go and see her this evening it was so long since he had been at the Hall Farm . 
He was not an average man . 
Their employers were the richer for them , the work of their hands has worn well , and the work of their brains has guided well the hands of other men . 
Others there are who die poor and never put off the workman's coal on weekdays . 
What's thee got thy Sunday cloose on for ? said Lisbeth complainingly , as he came downstairs . 
Thee artna goin' to th' school i' thy best coat ? No , Mother , said Adam , quietly . 
I'm going to the Hall Farm , but mayhap I may go to the school after , so thee mustna wonder if I'm a bit late . 
Seth 'ull be at home in half an hour he's only gone to the village so thee wutna mind . 
Eh , an' what's thee got thy best cloose on for to go to th' Hall Farm ? The Poyser folks see'd thee in 'em yesterday , I warrand . 
What dost mean by turnin' worki'day into Sunday a that'n ? It's poor keepin' company wi' folks as donna like to see thee i' thy workin' jacket . 
Good bye , mother , I can't stay , said Adam , putting on his hat and going out . 
But he had no sooner gone a few paces beyond the door than Lisbeth became uneasy at the thought that she had vexed him . 
But I wish , for thy own sake , thee'dst be more contented to let me do what I've made up my mind to do . 
I'll never be no other than a good son to thee as long as we live . 
But a man has other feelings besides what he owes to's father and mother , and thee oughtna to want to rule over me body and soul . 
And thee must make up thy mind as I'll not give way to thee where I've a right to do what I like . 
So let us have no more words about it . 
Well , well good bye , mother , said Adam , kissing her and hurrying away . 
He saw there was no other means of putting an end to the dialogue . 
Lisbeth stood still on the spot , shading her eyes and looking after him till he was quite out of sight . 
She'll know nothin' o' narrowin' an' heelin' , I warrand , an' she'll make a long toe as he canna get's boot on . 
That's what comes o' marr'in' young wenches . 
I war gone thirty , an' th' feyther too , afore we war married an' young enough too . 
She'll be a poor dratchell by then SHE'S thirty , a marr'in' a that'n , afore her teeth's all come . 
Adam walked so fast that he was at the yard gate before seven . 
She always gave Adam this title when she received him in her own house . 
You may come into the dairy if you will , for I canna justly leave the cheese . 
Adam walked into the dairy , where Mrs. Poyser and Nancy were crushing the first evening cheese . 
I've been forced t' have Nancy in , upo' 'count as Hetty must gether the red currants to night the fruit allays ripens so contrairy , just when every hand's wanted . 
An' there's no trustin' the children to gether it , for they put more into their own mouths nor into the basket you might as well set the wasps to gether the fruit . 
I'd be glad now if you'd go into the garden and tell Hetty to send Totty in . 
The child 'ull run in if she's told , an' I know Hetty's lettin' her eat too many currants . 
But you'd like a drink o' whey first , p'r'aps I know you're fond o' whey , as most folks is when they hanna got to crush it out . 
Thank you , Mrs. Poyser , said Adam a drink o' whey's allays a treat to me . 
I'd rather have it than beer any day . 
Here's to your health , and may you allays have strength to look after your own dairy , and set a pattern t' all the farmers' wives in the country . 
Have a little more , Mr. Bede ? said Mrs. Poyser , as Adam set down the basin . 
No , thank you I'll go into the garden now , and send in the little lass . 
Aye , do and tell her to come to her mother in the dairy . 
In that leafy , flowery , bushy time , to look for any one in this garden was like playing at hide and seek . 
But what signified a barren patch or two ? The garden was so large . 
Doubtless Totty was below , behind the screen of peas . 
Run into the house with 'em to Mother she wants you she's in the dairy . 
Run in this minute there's a good little girl . 
Tommy , my lad , take care you're not shot for a little thieving bird , said Adam , as he walked on towards the currant trees . 
He could see there was a large basket at the end of the row Hetty would not be far off , and Adam already felt as if she were looking at him . 
Yet when he turned the corner she was standing with her back towards him , and stooping to gather the low hanging fruit . 
Strange that she had not heard him coming ! Perhaps it was because she was making the leaves rustle . 
That blush made his heart beat with a new happiness . 
Hetty had never blushed at seeing him before . 
There's not many more currants to get , she said I shall soon ha' done now . 
I'll help you , said Adam and he fetched the large basket , which was nearly full of currants , and set it close to them . 
Not a word more was spoken as they gathered the currants . 
Adam's heart was too full to speak , and he thought Hetty knew all that was in it . 
It is a memory that gives a more exquisite touch to tenderness , that feeds the madness of jealousy and adds the last keenness to the agony of despair . 
And Hetty ? You know quite well that Adam was mistaken about her . 
Like many other men , he thought the signs of love for another were signs of love towards himself . 
When Adam was approaching unseen by her , she was absorbed as usual in thinking and wondering about Arthur's possible return . 
For the first time Hetty felt that there was something soothing to her in Adam's timid yet manly tenderness . 
It never entered into her mind that Adam was pitiable too that Adam too must suffer one day . 
Hetty , we know , was not the first woman that had behaved more gently to the man who loved her in vain because she had herself begun to love another . 
It was a very old story , but Adam knew nothing about it , so he drank in the sweet delusion . 
That'll do , said Hetty , after a little while . 
Aunt wants me to leave some on the trees . 
I'll take 'em in now . 
It's very well I came to carry the basket , said Adam for it 'ud ha' been too heavy for your little arms . 
No I could ha' carried it with both hands . 
Oh , I daresay , said Adam , smiling , and been as long getting into the house as a little ant carrying a caterpillar . 
Have you ever seen those tiny fellows carrying things four times as big as themselves ? No , said Hetty , indifferently , not caring to know the difficulties of ant life . 
Oh , I used to watch 'em often when I was a lad . 
But now , you see , I can carry the basket with one arm , as if it was an empty nutshell , and give you th' other arm to lean on . 
Won't you ? Such big arms as mine were made for little arms like yours to lean on . 
Hetty smiled faintly and put her arm within his . 
Adam looked down at her , but her eyes were turned dreamily towards another corner of the garden . 
Have you ever been to Eagledale ? she said , as they walked slowly along . 
Yes , said Adam , pleased to have her ask a question about himself . 
Ten years ago , when I was a lad , I went with father to see about some work there . 
It's a wonderful sight rocks and caves such as you never saw in your life . 
I never had a right notion o' rocks till I went there . 
How long did it take to get there ? Why , it took us the best part o' two days' walking . 
But it's nothing of a day's journey for anybody as has got a first rate nag . 
The captain 'ud get there in nine or ten hours , I'll be bound , he's such a rider . 
And it was true that Hetty listened with an interest which brought a new light into her eyes and a half smile upon her lips . 
How pretty the roses are now ! Adam continued , pausing to look at them . 
See ! I stole the prettiest , but I didna mean to keep it myself . 
It smells very sweet , he said those striped uns have no smell . 
Stick it in your frock , and then you can put it in water after . 
It 'ud be a pity to let it fade . 
Hetty took the rose , smiling as she did so at the pleasant thought that Arthur could so soon get back if he liked . 
The tender admiration in Adam's face was slightly shadowed by reluctant disapproval . 
Why , Dinah Morris looks very nice , for all she wears such a plain cap and gown . 
It seems to me as a woman's face doesna want flowers it's almost like a flower itself . 
Oh , very well , said Hetty , with a little playful pout , taking the rose out of her hair . 
I'll put one o' Dinah's caps on when we go in , and you'll see if I look better in it . 
She left one behind , so I can take the pattern . 
Nay , nay , I don't want you to wear a Methodist cap like Dinah's . 
But you've got another sort o' face I'd have you just as you are now , without anything t' interfere with your own looks . 
It's like when a man's singing a good tune you don't want t' hear bells tinkling and interfering wi' the sound . 
He took her arm and put it within his again , looking down on her fondly . 
He was afraid she should think he had lectured her , imagining , as we are apt to do , that she had perceived all the thoughts he had only half expressed . 
And the thing he dreaded most was lest any cloud should come over this evening's happiness . 
For the world he would not have spoken of his love to Hetty yet , till this commencing kindness towards him should have grown into unmistakable love . 
In his imagination he saw long years of his future life stretching before him , blest with the right to call Hetty his own he could be content with very little at present . 
So he took up the basket of currants once more , and they went on towards the house . 
The scene had quite changed in the half hour that Adam had been in the garden . 
The cold veal , the fresh lettuces , and the stuffed chine might well look tempting to hungry men who had dined at half past twelve o'clock . 
Well , Adam , I'm glad to see ye , said Mr. Poyser . 
What ! ye've been helping Hetty to gether the curran's , eh ? Come , sit ye down , sit ye down . 
Why , it's pretty near a three week since y' had your supper with us and the missis has got one of her rare stuffed chines . 
Hetty , said Mrs. Poyser , as she looked into the basket of currants to see if the fruit was fine , run upstairs and send Molly down . 
She's putting Totty to bed , and I want her to draw th' ale , for Nancy's busy yet i' the dairy . 
You can see to the child . 
Soon they were all seated the two rosy lads , one on each side , by the pale mother , a place being left for Hetty between Adam and her uncle . 
What a time that gell is drawing th' ale , to be sure ! said Mrs. Poyser , when she was dispensing her slices of stuffed chine . 
She's drawin' for the men too , said Mr. Poyser . 
Thee shouldst ha' told her to bring our jug up first . 
Told her ? said Mrs. Poyser . 
Yes , I might spend all the wind i' my body , an' take the bellows too , if I was to tell them gells everything as their own sharpness wonna tell 'em . 
Mr. Bede , will you take some vinegar with your lettuce ? Aye you're i' the right not . 
It spoils the flavour o' the chine , to my thinking . 
It's poor eating where the flavour o' the meat lies i' the cruets . 
There's folks as make bad butter and trusten to the salt t' hide it . 
Molly had not seen the lightning , and the thunder shook her nerves the more for the want of that preparation . 
There you go ! resumed Mrs. Poyser , in a cutting tone , as she rose and went towards the cupboard while Molly began dolefully to pick up the fragments of pottery . 
Vitus's Dance , to see the things you've throwed down . 
Ah , she went on , you'll do no good wi' crying an' making more wet to wipe up . 
It's all your own wilfulness , as I tell you , for there's nobody no call to break anything if they'll only go the right way to work . 
But wooden folks had need ha' wooden things t' handle . 
However it was , she stared and started like a ghost seer , and the precious brown and white jug fell to the ground , parting for ever with its spout and handle . 
Did ever anybody see the like ? she said , with a suddenly lowered tone , after a moment's bewildered glance round the room . 
The jugs are bewitched , I think . 
It's them nasty glazed handles they slip o'er the finger like a snail . 
Why , thee'st let thy own whip fly i' thy face , said her husband , who had now joined in the laugh of the young ones . 
It's all very fine to look on and grin , rejoined Mrs. Poyser but there's times when the crockery seems alive an' flies out o' your hand like a bird . 
It's like the glass , sometimes , 'ull crack as it stands . 
The boys got off their chairs and jumped round her , clapping their hands , and even Alick gave a low ventral laugh as he looked up from his beans . 
Why , Hetty , lass , are ye turned Methodist ? said Mr. Poyser , with that comfortable slow enjoyment of a laugh which one only sees in stout people . 
He says folks looks better in ugly clothes . 
Nay , nay , said Adam , looking at her admiringly I only said they seemed to suit Dinah . 
But if I'd said you'd look pretty in 'em , I should ha' said nothing but what was true . 
Why , thee thought'st Hetty war a ghost , didstna ? said Mr. Poyser to his wife , who now came back and took her seat again . 
Thee look'dst as scared as scared . 
It little sinnifies how I looked , said Mrs. Poyser looks 'ull mend no jugs , nor laughing neither , as I see . 
Mr. Bede , I'm sorry you've to wait so long for your ale , but it's coming in a minute . 
Make yourself at home wi' th' cold potatoes I know you like 'em . 
Tommy , I'll send you to bed this minute , if you don't give over laughing . 
It little becomes anybody i' this house to make fun o' my sister's child , an' her just gone away from us , as it went to my heart to part wi' her . 
For she's one o' them things as looks the brightest on a rainy day , and loves you the best when you're most i' need on't . 
Mrs. Poyser , you perceive , was aware that nothing would be so likely to expel the comic as the terrible . 
Ah , said Adam , looking at it carefully , here's a nice bit o' turning wanted . 
I must have it up at the turning shop in the village and do it there , for I've no convenence for turning at home . 
If you'll send it to Mr. Burge's shop i' the morning , I'll get it done for you by Wednesday . 
I've been turning it over in my mind , he continued , looking at Mr. Poyser , to make a bit more convenence at home for nice jobs o' cabinet making . 
I've always done a deal at such little things in odd hours , and they're profitable , for there's more workmanship nor material in 'em . 
And so the time passed pleasantly till Adam got up to go . 
I've never hardly known him to miss church before . 
Aye , said Mr. Poyser , we've heared nothing about him , for it's the boys' hollodays now , so we can give you no account . 
But you'll niver think o' going there at this hour o' the night ? said Mrs. Poyser , folding up her knitting . 
Oh , Mester Massey sits up late , said Adam . 
An' the night school's not over yet . 
Some o' the men don't come till late they've got so far to walk . 
And Bartle himself's never in bed till it's gone eleven . 
Aye , eleven o'clock's late it's late , said old Martin . 
I ne'er sot up so i' MY life , not to say as it warna a marr'in' , or a christenin' , or a wake , or th' harvest supper . 
Why , I sit up till after twelve often , said Adam , laughing , but it isn't t' eat and drink extry , it's to work extry . 
Good night , Mrs. Poyser good night , Hetty . 
Sitting up till past twelve to do extry work ! Ye'll not find many men o' six an' twenty as 'ull do to put i' the shafts wi' him . 
If you can catch Adam for a husband , Hetty , you'll ride i' your own spring cart some day , I'll be your warrant . 
Hetty was moving across the kitchen with the currants , so her uncle did not see the little toss of the head with which she answered him . 
To ride in a spring cart seemed a very miserable lot indeed to her now . 
Chapter XXI The Night School and the Schoolmaster Bartle Massey's was one of a few scattered houses on the edge of a common , which was divided by the road to Treddleston . 
When he entered , a reading lesson was going forward and Bartle Massey merely nodded , leaving him to take his place where he pleased . 
The reading class now seated on the form in front of the schoolmaster's desk consisted of the three most backward pupils . 
It's the same lesson you read last week , you know . 
He was a broad chested fellow . 
with a fervid temperament , which helped him better in imbibing religious ideas than in the dry process of acquiring the mere human knowledge of the alphabet . 
The third beginner was a much more promising pupil . 
He was a tall but thin and wiry man , nearly as old as Brimstone , with a very pale face and hands stained a deep blue . 
He had already a high reputation in the district for his dyes , and he was bent on discovering some method by which he could reduce the expense of crimsons and scarlets . 
It was almost as if three rough animals were making humble efforts to learn how they might become human . 
And it touched the tenderest fibre in Bartle Massey's nature , for such full grown children as these were the only pupils for whom he had no severe epithets and no impatient tones . 
Now , you see , you don't do this thing a bit better than you did a fortnight ago , and I'll tell you what's the reason . 
You want to learn accounts that's well and good . 
You think knowledge is to be got cheap you'll come and pay Bartle Massey sixpence a week , and he'll make you clever at figures without your taking any trouble . 
But knowledge isn't to be got with paying sixpence , let me tell you . 
If you're to know figures , you must turn 'em over in your heads and keep your thoughts fixed on 'em . 
There's nothing you can't turn into a sum , for there's nothing but what's got number in it even a fool . 
I'll send no man away because he's stupid if Billy Taft , the idiot , wanted to learn anything , I'd not refuse to teach him . 
But I'll not throw away good knowledge on people who think they can get it by the sixpenn'orth , and carry it away with 'em as they would an ounce of snuff . 
So never come to me again , if you can't show that you've been working with your own heads , instead of thinking that you can pay for mine to work for you . 
That's the last word I've got to say to you . 
With this final sentence , Bartle Massey gave a sharper rap than ever with his knobbed stick , and the discomfited lads got up to go with a sulky look . 
would ha' done as well , for what he could see . 
He was no sooner on the ground than it became obvious why the stick was necessary the left leg was much shorter than the right . 
Why , you've got a family , I see , Mr. Massey ? said Adam , smiling , as he came into the kitchen . 
How's that ? I thought it was against the law here . 
He always called Vixen a woman , and seemed to have lost all consciousness that he was using a figure of speech . 
If I'd known Vixen was a woman , I'd never have held the boys from drowning her but when I'd got her into my hand , I was forced to take to her . 
I've wished again and again I'd been a bloody minded man , that I could have strangled the mother and the brats with one cord . 
I'm glad it was no worse a cause kept you from church , said Adam . 
I was afraid you must be ill for the first time i' your life . 
And I was particularly sorry not to have you at church yesterday . 
You've had a rough bit o' road to get over since I saw you a rough bit o' road . 
But I'm in hopes there are better times coming for you . 
I've got some news to tell you . 
But I must get my supper first , for I'm hungry , I'm hungry . 
Sit down , sit down . 
Then came a piece of cheese and a quart jug with a crown of foam upon it . 
Now , then , my boy , draw up , draw up . 
We'll not talk about business till we've had our supper . 
No man can be wise on an empty stomach . 
But , said Bartle , rising from his chair again , I must give Vixen her supper too , confound her ! Though she'll do nothing with it but nourish those unnecessary babbies . 
That's the way with these women they've got no head pieces to nourish , and so their food all runs either to fat or to brats . 
He brought out of the pantry a dish of scraps , which Vixen at once fixed her eyes on , and jumped out of her hamper to lick up with the utmost dispatch . 
I've had my supper , Mr. Massey , said Adam , so I'll look on while you eat yours . 
I've been at the Hall Farm , and they always have their supper betimes , you know they don't keep your late hours . 
I know little about their hours , said Bartle dryly , cutting his bread and not shrinking from the crust . 
It's a house I seldom go into , though I'm fond of the boys , and Martin Poyser's a good fellow . 
There's too many women in the house for me I hate the sound of women's voices they're always either a buzz or a squeak always either a buzz or a squeak . 
Mrs. Poyser keeps at the top o' the talk like a fife and as for the young lasses , I'd as soon look at water grubs . 
I know what they'll turn to stinging gnats , stinging gnats . 
Here , take some ale , my boy it's been drawn for you it's been drawn for you . 
A working man 'ud be badly off without a wife to see to th' house and the victual , and make things clean and comfortable . 
Nonsense ! It's the silliest lie a sensible man like you ever believed , to say a woman makes a house comfortable . 
It's a story got up because the women are there and something must be found for 'em to do . 
I tell you , a woman 'ull bake you a pie every week of her life and never come to see that the hotter th' oven the shorter the time . 
The porridge WILL be awk'ard now and then if it's wrong , it's summat in the meal , or it's summat in the milk , or it's summat in the water . 
And as for cleanliness , my house is cleaner than any other house on the Common , though the half of 'em swarm with women . 
Quiet , Vixen ! snarled Bartle , turning round upon her . 
You're like the rest o' the women always putting in your word before you know why . 
But tell me first , have you heard any particular news to day ? No , said Adam , not as I remember . 
Ah , they'll keep it close , they'll keep it close , I daresay . 
But I found it out by chance and it's news that may concern you , Adam , else I'm a man that don't know a superficial square foot from a solid . 
Here Bartle gave a series of fierce and rapid puffs , looking earnestly the while at Adam . 
Your impatient loquacious man has never any notion of keeping his pipe alight by gentle measured puffs he is always letting it go nearly out , and then punishing it for that negligence . 
At last he said , Satchell's got a paralytic stroke . 
I found it out from the lad they sent to Treddleston for the doctor , before seven o'clock this morning . 
He's a good way beyond sixty , you know it's much if he gets over it . 
Well , said Adam , I daresay there'd be more rejoicing than sorrow in the parish at his being laid up . 
He's been a selfish , tale bearing , mischievous fellow but , after all , there's nobody he's done so much harm to as to th' old squire . 
And he's lost more by ill management o' the woods , I'll be bound , than 'ud pay for two stewards . 
If he's laid on the shelf , it's to be hoped he'll make way for a better man , but I don't see how it's like to make any difference to me . 
But I see it , but I see it , said Bartle , and others besides me . 
The captain's coming of age now you know that as well as I do and it's to be expected he'll have a little more voice in things . 
And I know , and you know too , what 'ud be the captain's wish about the woods , if there was a fair opportunity for making a change . 
He's said in plenty of people's hearing that he'd make you manager of the woods to morrow , if he'd the power . 
Why , Carroll , Mr. Irwine's butler , heard him say so to the parson not many days ago . 
It's pretty well known who's the backbone of Jonathan Burge's business . 
I thank you for your good word , Mr. Massey , said Adam . 
But , for all that , Casson was partly i' the right for once . 
There's not much likelihood that th' old squire 'ud ever consent t' employ me . 
I offended him about two years ago , and he's never forgiven me . 
Why , how was that ? You never told me about it , said Bartle . 
Oh , it was a bit o' nonsense . 
However , it was a nice bit o' work , and I liked doing it for her . 
But , you know , those little friggling things take a deal o' time . 
And I was uncommon pleased with it when it was done . 
Well , she was mighty pleased with the screen , and then she wanted to know what pay she was to give me . 
I didn't speak at random you know it's not my way I'd calculated pretty close , though I hadn't made out a bill , and I said , 'One pound thirty . 
That was paying for the mater'als and paying me , but none too much , for my work . 
Give him a guinea , and no more . 
But I made a bow , and said , 'No , thank you , madam I'll make you a present o' the screen , if you please . 
With your leave , madam , I'll bid you good morning . 
I made my bow and went out before she'd time to say any more , for she stood with the purse in her hand , looking almost foolish . 
And in the evening the footman brought me the one pound thirteen wrapped in paper . 
But since then I've seen pretty clear as th' old squire can't abide me . 
That's likely enough , that's likely enough , said Bartle meditatively . 
The only way to bring him round would be to show him what was for his own interest , and that the captain may do that the captain may do . 
Nay , I don't know , said Adam the squire's 'cute enough but it takes something else besides 'cuteness to make folks see what'll be their interest in the long run . 
It takes some conscience and belief in right and wrong , I see that pretty clear . 
You'd hardly ever bring round th' old squire to believe he'd gain as much in a straightfor'ard way as by tricks and turns . 
You must learn to deal with odd and even in life , as well as in figures . 
It's no harm for me to be a bit fiery and stiff backed I'm an old schoolmaster , and shall never want to get on to a higher perch . 
Stuff and nonsense ! Stuff and nonsense ! Leave that to fools that never got beyond a sum in simple addition . 
There's a good deal o' sense in what you say , Mr. Massey , Adam began , as soon as he felt quite serious , as there always is . 
But you'll give in that it's no business o' mine to be building on chances that may never happen . 
What I've got to do is to work as well as I can with the tools and mater'als I've got in my hands . 
I'm turning over a little plan for Seth and me to go into the cabinet making a bit by ourselves , and win a extra pound or two in that way . 
But it's getting late now it'll be pretty near eleven before I'm at home , and Mother may happen to lie awake she's more fidgety nor usual now . 
So I'll bid you good night . 
Well , well , we'll go to the gate with you it's a fine night , said Bartle , taking up his stick . 
Vixen was at once on her legs , and without further words the three walked out into the starlight , by the side of Bartle's potato beds , to the little gate . 
Come to the music o' Friday night , if you can , my boy , said the old man , as he closed the gate after Adam and leaned against it . 
Aye , aye , said Adam , striding along towards the streak of pale road . 
He was the only object moving on the wide common . 
The strongest calf must have something to suck at . 
There's plenty of these big , lumbering fellows 'ud never have known their A B C if it hadn't been for Bartle Massey . 
But where's the use of talking to a woman with babbies ? continued Bartle . 
She's got no conscience no conscience it's all run to milk . 
Perfect weather for an outdoor July merry making , yet surely not the best time of year to be born in . 
Little , little ears ! Arthur had said , pretending to pinch them one evening , as Hetty sat beside him on the grass without her hat . 
And the next day it was only last week Arthur had ridden over to Rosseter on purpose to buy them . 
But she cannot keep in the ear rings long , else she may make her uncle and aunt wait . 
She puts them quickly into the box again and shuts them up . 
She feels the bracelets on her arms , and treads on a soft carpet in front of a tall mirror . 
She must keep it under her clothes , and no one would see it . 
But Hetty had another passion , only a little less strong than her love of finery , and that other passion made her like to wear the locket even hidden in her bosom . 
She would always have worn it , if she had dared to encounter her aunt's questions about a ribbon round her neck . 
So now she slipped it on along her chain of dark brown berries , and snapped the chain round her neck . 
It was not a very long chain , only allowing the locket to hang a little way below the edge of her frock . 
She looked for consolation at her fine white cotton stockings they really were very nice indeed , and she had given almost all her spare money for them . 
Hetty's dream of the future could not make her insensible to triumph in the present . 
If we lock th' house up , all the men can go it's a day they wonna see twice i' their lives . 
But Mrs. Poyser answered with great decision I never left the house to take care of itself since I was a missis , and I never will . 
And it's like enough the tramps know where we're going as well as we do oursens for if Old Harry wants any work done , you may be sure he'll find the means . 
They may let Growler loose if anybody offers to do mischief , and there's Alick's dog too , ready enough to set his tooth in a tramp if Alick gives him a wink . 
The covered cart , without springs , was standing ready to carry the whole family except the men servants . 
The carts , of course , were not to enter the Chase . 
Every one must get down at the lodges , and the vehicles must be sent back . 
I should ha' thought there wasna so many people i' the two parishes . 
I shall go to Mrs. Best's room an' sit down . 
Stop a bit , stop a bit , said Mr. Poyser . 
There's th' waggin coming wi' th' old folks in't it'll be such a sight as wonna come o'er again , to see 'em get down an' walk along all together . 
I remember Jacob Taft walking fifty mile after the Scotch raybels , when they turned back from Stoniton . 
You can enjoy yoursen to day , for all you're ninety an' better . 
Your sarvant , mesters , your sarvant , said Feyther Taft in a treble tone , perceiving that he was in company . 
But Hetty was wrong in part of her conjecture . 
A very handsome young Briton he looked to day , in high spirits and a bright blue frock coat , the highest mode his arm no longer in a sling . 
So open looking and candid , too but candid people have their secrets , and secrets leave no lines in young faces . 
Never mind , you'll give more pleasure in this quiet way , said Mr. Irwine . 
In this sort of thing people are constantly confounding liberality with riot and disorder . 
If the people get a good dinner and a moderate quantity of ale in the middle of the day , they'll be able to enjoy the games as the day cools . 
You can't hinder some of them from getting too much towards evening , but drunkenness and darkness go better together than drunkenness and daylight . 
Well , I hope there won't be much of it . 
Come , let us go up above now and see the dinner tables for the large tenants . 
What a capital thing it is that they saved this piece of the old abbey ! said Arthur . 
If I'm ever master here , I shall do up the gallery in first rate style . 
We've got no room in the house a third as large as this . 
That second table is for the farmers' wives and children Mrs. Best said it would be more comfortable for the mothers and children to be by themselves . 
I was determined to have the children , and make a regular family thing of it . 
I shall be 'the old squire' to those little lads and lasses some day , and they'll tell their children what a much finer young fellow I was than my own son . 
There's a table for the women and children below as well . 
But you will see them all you will come up with me after dinner , I hope ? Yes , to be sure , said Mr. Irwine . 
I wouldn't miss your maiden speech to the tenantry . 
And there will be something else you'll like to hear , said Arthur . 
Let us go into the library and I'll tell you all about it while my grandfather is in the drawing room with the ladies . 
Something that will surpsise you , he continued , as they sat down . 
My grandfather has come round after all . 
What , about Adam ? Yes I should have ridden over to tell you about it , only I was so busy . 
Ah , my boy , it is not only woman's love that is two greek words omitted as old AEschylus calls it . 
There's plenty of 'unloving love' in the world of a masculine kind . 
But tell me about Adam . 
Well , I felt some doubt about it when I spoke to him and he seemed to hesitate at first . 
His objection was that he thought he should not be able to satisfy my grandfather . 
It's a little drama I've got up in honour of my friend Adam . 
He's a fine fellow , and I like the opportunity of letting people know that I think so . 
A drama in which friend Arthur piques himself on having a pretty part to play , said Mr. Irwine , smiling . 
I don't like to admit that I'm proud of my pupil when he does graceful things . 
But I must play the amiable old gentleman for once , and second your toast in honour of Adam . 
He's got some project or other about letting the Chase Farm and bargaining for a supply of milk and butter for the house . 
But I ask no questions about it it makes me too angry . 
I believe he means to do all the business himself , and have nothing in the shape of a steward . 
It's amazing what energy he has , though . 
Well , we'll go to the ladies now , said Mr. Irwine , rising too . 
I want to tell my mother what a splendid throne you've prepared for her under the marquee . 
Yes , and we must be going to luncheon too , said Arthur . 
It must be two o'clock , for there is the gong beginning to sound for the tenants' dinners . 
But Mr. Mills , the butler , assured him that Captain Donnithorne had given particular orders about it , and would be very angry if Adam was not there . 
Adam nodded and went up to Seth , who was standing a few yards off . 
But I don't like sitting up above thee and mother , as if I was better than my own flesh and blood . 
The further I see thee above me , the better , so long as thee feel'st like a brother to me . 
It's because o' thy being appointed over the woods , and it's nothing but what's right . 
That's a place o' trust , and thee't above a common workman now . 
Aye , said Adam , but nobody knows a word about it yet . 
Well , thee canst say thee wast ordered to come without being told the reason . 
And mother 'ull be fine and joyful about it . 
Let's go and tell her . 
Adam was not the only guest invited to come upstairs on other grounds than the amount he contributed to the rent roll . 
There were other people in the two parishes who derived dignity from their functions rather than from their pocket , and of these Bartle Massey was one . 
Well , Mester Massey , said Adam , as Bartle came up I'm going to dine upstairs with you to day the captain's sent me orders . 
Ah ! said Bartle , pausing , with one hand on his back . 
Then there's something in the wind there's something in the wind . 
Trust to me , my boy , trust to me . 
I've got no wife to worm it out of me and then run out and cackle it in everybody's hearing . 
If you trust a man , let him be a bachelor let him be a bachelor . 
Well , then , it was so far settled yesterday that I'm to take the management o' the woods . 
The captain sent for me t' offer it me , when I was seeing to the poles and things here and I've agreed to't . 
But if anybody asks any questions upstairs , just you take no notice , and turn the talk to something else , and I'll be obliged to you . 
Now , let us go on , for we're pretty nigh the last , I think . 
I know what to do , never fear , said Bartle , moving on . 
The news will be good sauce to my dinner . 
Aye , aye , my boy , you'll get on . 
I'll back you for an eye at measuring and a head piece for figures , against any man in this county and you've had good teaching you've had good teaching . 
It stands to sense , Mr. Casson was saying , as old Mr. Poyser , as is th' oldest man i' the room , should sit at top o' the table . 
I wasn't butler fifteen year without learning the rights and the wrongs about dinner . 
Nay , nay , said old Martin , I'n gi'en up to my son I'm no tenant now let my son take my place . 
Th' ould foulks ha' had their turn they mun make way for the young uns . 
Well , said Mr. Poyser , suppose we say the man wi' the foulest land shall sit at top then whoever gets th' honour , there'll be no envying on him . 
Martin Poyser the younger , as the broadest , was to be president , and Mr. Casson , as next broadest , was to be vice . 
Well , Mr. Bede , you're one o' them as mounts hup'ards apace , he said , when Adam sat down . 
You've niver dined here before , as I remember . 
Nay , nay , said several voices at once , we're glad ye're come . 
Who's got anything to say again' it ? And ye'll sing us 'Over the hills and far away , after dinner , wonna ye ? said Mr. Chowne . 
That's a song I'm uncommon fond on . 
Peeh ! said Mr. Craig it's not to be named by side o' the Scotch tunes . 
I've never cared about singing myself I've had something better to do . 
A man that's got the names and the natur o' plants in's head isna likely to keep a hollow place t' hold tunes in . 
But a second cousin o' mine , a drovier , was a rare hand at remembering the Scotch tunes . 
He'd got nothing else to think on . 
The Scotch tunes ! said Bartle Massey , contemptuously I've heard enough o' the Scotch tunes to last me while I live . 
They're fit for nothing but to frighten the birds with that's to say , the English birds , for the Scotch birds may sing Scotch for what I know . 
Give the lads a bagpipe instead of a rattle , and I'll answer for it the corn 'll be safe . 
Yes , there's folks as find a pleasure in undervallying what they know but little about , said Mr. Craig . 
Why , the Scotch tunes are just like a scolding , nagging woman , Bartle went on , without deigning to notice Mr. Craig's remark . 
They go on with the same thing over and over again , and never come to a reasonable end . 
Anybody 'ud think the Scotch tunes had always been asking a question of somebody as deaf as old Taft , and had never got an answer yet . 
Adam minded the less about sitting by Mr. Casson , because this position enabled him to see Hetty , who was not far off him at the next table . 
What's the matter wi' the child ? She can niver please you , said the mother . 
Let her come by the side o' me , then . 
I can put up wi' her . 
Adam was looking at Hetty , and saw the frown , and pout , and the dark eyes seeming to grow larger with pettish half gathered tears . 
And presently , when Totty was gone , she caught his eye , and her face broke into one of its brightest smiles , as she nodded to him . 
It was a bit of flirtation she knew Mary Burge was looking at them . 
But the smile was like wine to Adam . 
When the young squire entered , with Mr. Irwine by his side , every one stood up , and this moment of homage was very agreeable to Arthur . 
The pleasure he felt was in his face as he said , My grandfather and I hope all our friends here have enjoyed their dinner , and find my birthday ale good . 
Mr. Irwine and I are come to taste it with you , and I am sure we shall all like anything the better that the rector shares with us . 
All eyes were now turned on Mr. Poyser , who , with his hands still busy in his pockets , began with the deliberateness of a slow striking clock . 
Captain , my neighbours have put it upo' me to speak for 'em to day , for where folks think pretty much alike , one spokesman's as good as a score . 
We've pretty nigh all on us known you when you war a little un , an' we've niver known anything on you but what was good an' honorable . 
I've no more to say as concerns the present time , an' so we'll drink our young squire's health three times three . 
Arthur had felt a twinge of conscience during Mr. Poyser's speech , but it was too feeble to nullify the pleasure he felt in being praised . 
It was necessary to Arthur , you perceive , to be satisfied with himself . 
Perhaps there was no one present except Mr. Irwine who thoroughly understood and approved Arthur's graceful mode of proposing his grandfather's health . 
The farmers thought the young squire knew well enough that they hated the old squire , and Mrs. Poyser said , he'd better not ha' stirred a kettle o' sour broth . 
The bucolic mind does not readily apprehend the refinements of good taste . 
But there is a still older friend of mine than Adam Bede present , and I need not tell you that it is Mr. Irwine . 
I'm sure you will agree with me that we must drink no other person's health until we have drunk his . 
The superior refinement of his face was much more striking than that of Arthur's when seen in comparison with the people round them . 
That feeling is his value and respect for Adam Bede . 
He is one of those to whom honour is due , and his friends should delight to honour him . 
Tough work as his first speech had been , he would have started up to make another if he had not known the extreme irregularity of such a course . 
As it was , he found an outlet for his feeling in drinking his ale unusually fast , and setting down his glass with a swing of his arm and a determined rap . 
If Jonathan Burge and a few others felt less comfortable on the occasion , they tried their best to look contented , and so the toast was drunk with a goodwill apparently unanimous . 
Adam was rather paler than usual when he got up to thank his friends . 
He was a good deal moved by this public tribute very naturally , for he was in the presence of all his little world , and it was uniting to do him honour . 
I'm quite taken by surprise , he said . 
I didn't expect anything o' this sort , for it's a good deal more than my wages . 
You think , if I undertake to do a bit o' work , I'll do it well , be my pay big or little and that's true . 
I'd be ashamed to stand before you here if it wasna true . 
And so this kindness o' yours , I'm sure , is no debt you owe me , but a free gift , and as such I accept it and am thankful . 
And as to this new employment I've taken in hand , I'll only say that I took it at Captain Donnithorne's desire , and that I'll try to fulfil his expectations . 
I'd wish for no better lot than to work under him , and to know that while I was getting my own bread I was taking care of his int'rests . 
There's no occasion for me to say any more about what I feel towards him I hope to show it through the rest o' my life in my actions . 
There was none of the strong ale here , of course , but wine and dessert sparkling gooseberry for the young ones , and some good sherry for the mothers . 
How do you do , Mrs. Poyser ? said Arthur . 
What ! you think you could have made it better for him ? said Mr. Irwine , laughing . 
Well , sir , when I want to say anything , I can mostly find words to say it in , thank God . 
Not as I'm a finding faut wi' my husband , for if he's a man o' few words , what he says he'll stand to . 
I'm sure I never saw a prettier party than this , Arthur said , looking round at the apple cheeked children . 
My aunt and the Miss Irwines will come up and see you presently . 
They were afraid of the noise of the toasts , but it would be a shame for them not to see you at table . 
Arthur did not venture to stop near Hetty , but merely bowed to her as he passed along the opposite side . 
Meantime , when the sun had moved off the great open space in front of the house , the games began . 
Staid , formal Miss Lydia had requested to resign that queenly office to the royal old lady , and Arthur was pleased with this opportunity of gratifying his godmother's taste for stateliness . 
But take care you get a charming bride , else I would rather die without seeing her . 
You're so terribly fastidious , Godmother , said Arthur , I'm afraid I should never satisfy you with my choice . 
Well , I won't forgive you if she's not handsome . 
I can't be put off with amiability , which is always the excuse people are making for the existence of plain people . 
And she must not be silly that will never do , because you'll want managing , and a silly woman can't manage you . 
I like to see that . 
What , don't you know him , Mother ? said Mr. Irwine . 
That is Seth Bede , Adam's brother a Methodist , but a very good fellow . 
Ah , I remember hearing about her . 
But there are no end of people here that I don't know , for they're grown up and altered so since I used to go about . 
His face is nothing but a pale blurred spot to me . 
But I fancy I have the advantage of you when we come to look close . 
I can read small print without spectacles . 
Ah , my dear sir , you began with being very near sighted , and those near sighted eyes always wear the best . 
I want very strong spectacles to read with , but then I think my eyes get better and better for things at a distance . 
See , said Arthur , the old women are ready to set out on their race now . 
Which do you bet on , Gawaine ? The long legged one , unless they're going to have several heats , and then the little wiry one may win . 
There are the Poysers , Mother , not far off on the right hand , said Miss Irwine . 
Mrs. Poyser is looking at you . 
Do take notice of her . 
To be sure I will , said the old lady , giving a gracious bow to Mrs. Poyser . 
A woman who sends me such excellent cream cheese is not to be neglected . 
My maid has taught her fine needlework , and she has mended some lace of mine very respectably indeed very respectably . 
Why , she has lived with the Poysers six or seven years , Mother you must have seen her , said Miss Irwine . 
No , I've never seen her , child at least not as she is now , said Mrs. Irwine , continuing to look at Hetty . 
Well looking , indeed ! She's a perfect beauty ! I've never seen anything so pretty since my young days . 
Arthur dared not turn his eyes towards Hetty while Mrs. Irwine was speaking of her . 
He feigned not to hear , and to be occupied with something on the opposite side . 
Yes ! She was enough to turn any man's head any man in his place would have done and felt the same . 
And to give her up after all , as he was determined to do , would be an act that he should always look back upon with pride . 
No , Mother , and Mr. Irwine , replying to her last words I can't agree with you there . 
The common people are not quite so stupid as you imagine . 
The commonest man , who has his ounce of sense and feeling , is conscious of the difference between a lovely , delicate woman and a coarse one . 
Even a dog feels a difference in their presence . 
The man may be no better able than the dog to explain the influence the more refined beauty has on him , but he feels it . 
Your fine critic of woman must never shackle his judgment by calling one woman his own . 
The reason is though she doesn't know it that there's so much tenderness , refinement , and purity about her . 
Such a woman as that brings with her 'airs from heaven' that the coarsest fellow is not insensible to . 
Here's a delicate bit of womanhood , or girlhood , coming to receive a prize , I suppose , said Mr. Gawaine . 
She must be one of the racers in the sacks , who had set off before we came . 
Bessy , I am sorry to say , had taken to her ear rings again since Dinah's departure , and was otherwise decked out in such small finery as she could muster . 
Any one who could have looked into poor Bessy's heart would have seen a striking resemblance between her little hopes and anxieties and Hetty's . 
The advantage , perhaps , would have been on Bessy's side in the matter of feeling . 
But then , you see , they were so very different outside ! You would have been inclined to box Bessy's ears , and you would have longed to kiss Hetty . 
Bessy had been tempted to run the arduous race , partly from mere hedonish gaiety , partly because of the prize . 
You didn't think the winner was to be so young , I suppose , Aunt ? said Arthur . 
I have a scarlet cloak , but that is for the old woman who wins . 
This speech of Miss Lydia's produced rather a mocking expression in Mrs. Irwine's face as she looked at Arthur , while Bessy came up and dropped a series of curtsies . 
This is Bessy Cranage , mother , said Mr. Irwine , kindly , Chad Cranage's daughter . 
You remember Chad Cranage , the blacksmith ? Yes , to be sure , said Mrs. Irwine . 
Well , Bessy , here is your prize excellent warm things for winter . 
I'm sure you have had hard work to win them this warm day . 
Bessy's lip fell as she saw the ugly , heavy gown which felt so hot and disagreeable too , on this July day , and was such a great ugly thing to carry . 
She dropped her curtsies again , without looking up , and with a growing tremulousness about the corners of her mouth , and then turned away . 
Poor girl , said Arthur I think she's disappointed . 
I wish it had been something more to her taste . 
She's a bold looking young person , observed Miss Lydia . 
Not at all one I should like to encourage . 
In this situation she was descried by her discreet matronly cousin , who lost no time in coming up , having just given the baby into her husband's charge . 
What's the matter wi' ye ? said Bess the matron , taking up the bundle and examining it . 
Ye'n sweltered yoursen , I reckon , running that fool's race . 
An' here , they'n gi'en you lots o' good grogram and flannel , as should ha' been gi'en by good rights to them as had the sense to keep away from such foolery . 
Ye might spare me a bit o' this grogram to make clothes for the lad ye war ne'er ill natured , Bess I ne'er said that on ye . 
Ye may take it all , for what I care , said Bess the maiden , with a pettish movement , beginning to wipe away her tears and recover herself . 
What's this , what's this ? said old Mr. Donnithorne . 
Is it something you've arranged , Arthur ? Here's the clerk coming with his fiddle , and a smart fellow with a nosegay in his button hole . 
No , said Arthur I know nothing about it . 
By Jove , he's going to dance ! It's one of the carpenters I forget his name at this moment . 
It's Ben Cranage Wiry Ben , they call him , said Mr. Irwine rather a loose fish , I think . 
Anne , my dear , I see that fiddle scraping is too much for you you're getting tired . 
Let me take you in now , that you may rest till dinner . 
That is as much like the real thing as the Bird Waltz is like the song of birds . 
It was Martin Poyser , who was seated on a bench , with Tommy between his legs . 
What dost think o' that ? he said to his wife . 
He goes as pat to the music as if he was made o' clockwork . 
I used to be a pretty good un at dancing myself when I was lighter , but I could niver ha' hit it just to th' hair like that . 
It's little matter what his limbs are , to my thinking , re turned Mrs. Poyser . 
He's empty enough i' the upper story , or he'd niver come jigging an' stamping i' that way , like a mad grasshopper , for the gentry to look at him . 
They're fit to die wi' laughing , I can see . 
Well , well , so much the better , it amuses 'em , said Mr. Poyser , who did not easily take an irritable view of things . 
But they're going away now , t' have their dinner , I reckon . 
Well move about a bit , shall we , and see what Adam Bede's doing . 
He's got to look after the drinking and things I doubt he hasna had much fun . 
Just the sort of place to be ornamented well with green boughs , and Mr. Craig had been proud to show his taste and his hothouse plants on the occasion . 
One of these was Lisbeth Bede , and Seth went with her not from filial attention only , for his conscience would not let him join in dancing . 
It had been rather a melancholy day to Seth Dinah had never been more constantly present with him than in this scene , where everything was so unlike her . 
But this presence of Dinah in his mind only helped him to bear the better with his mother's mood , which had been becoming more and more querulous for the last hour . 
Poor Lisbeth was suffering from a strange conflict of feelings . 
Adam was getting more and more out of her reach she wished all the old troubles back again , for then it mattered more to Adam what his mother said and did . 
Eh , it's fine talkin' o' dancin' , she said , an' thy father not a five week in's grave . 
An' I wish I war there too , i'stid o' bein' left to take up merrier folks's room above ground . 
Nay , don't look at it i' that way , Mother , said Adam , who was determined to be gentle to her to day . 
I don't mean to dance I shall only look on . 
And since the captain wishes me to be there , it 'ud look as if I thought I knew better than him to say as I'd rather not stay . 
And thee know'st how he's behaved to me to day . 
Eh , thee't do as thee lik'st , for thy old mother's got no right t' hinder thee . 
She's nought but th' old husk , and thee'st slipped away from her , like the ripe nut . 
He said this with some effort , for he really longed to be near Hetty this evening . 
Nay , nay , I wonna ha' thee do that the young squire 'ull be angered . 
Go an' do what thee't ordered to do , an' me and Seth 'ull go whome . 
Why , Adam , I'm glad to get sight on y' again , said Mr. Poyser , who was carrying Totty on his arm . 
You're going t' have a bit o' fun , I hope , now your work's all done . 
And here's Hetty has promised no end o' partners , an' I've just been askin' her if she'd agreed to dance wi' you , an' she says no . 
Well , I didn't think o' dancing to night , said Adam , already tempted to change his mind , as he looked at Hetty . 
Nonsense ! said Mr. Poyser . 
Why , everybody's goin' to dance to night , all but th' old squire and Mrs. Irwine . 
You canna for shame stand still , Adam , an' you a fine young fellow and can dance as well as anybody . 
Nay , nay , said Mrs. Poyser , it 'ud be unbecomin' . 
I know the dancin's nonsense , but if you stick at everything because it's nonsense , you wonna go far i' this life . 
When your broth's ready made for you , you mun swallow the thickenin' , or else let the broth alone . 
Then if Hetty 'ull d'ance with me , said Adam , yielding either to Mrs. Poyser's argument or to something else , I'll dance whichever dance she's free . 
I've got no partner for the fourth dance , said Hetty I'll dance that with you , if you like . 
Ah , said Mr. Poyser , but you mun dance the first dance , Adam , else it'll look partic'ler . 
There's plenty o' nice partners to pick an' choose from , an' it's hard for the gells when the men stan' by and don't ask 'em . 
Arthur had put on his uniform to please the tenants , he said , who thought as much of his militia dignity as if it had been an elevation to the premiership . 
He had not the least objection to gratify them in that way his uniform was very advantageous to his figure . 
Old Harry doesna wag his tail so for nothin' . 
In order to balance the honours given to the two parishes , Miss Irwine danced with Luke Britton , the largest Broxton farmer , and Mr. Gawaine led out Mrs. Britton . 
Pity it was not a boarded floor ! Then the rhythmic stamping of the thick shoes would have been better than any drums . 
There was but one thing to mar Martin Poyser's pleasure in this dance it was that he was always in close contact with Luke Britton , that slovenly farmer . 
So he gave his face up to hilarity , unchilled by moral judgments . 
How Hetty's heart beat as Arthur approached her ! He had hardly looked at her to day now he must take her hand . 
Would he press it ? Would he look at her ? She thought she would cry if he gave her no sign of feeling . 
Now he was there he had taken her hand yes , he was pressing it . 
Hetty turned pale as she looked up at him for an instant and met his eyes , before the dance carried him away . 
That pale look came upon Arthur like the beginning of a dull pain , which clung to him , though he must dance and smile and joke all the same . 
Hetty would look so , when he told her what he had to tell her and he should never be able to bear it he should be a fool and give way again . 
But Hetty's face had a language that transcended her feelings . 
That look of Hetty's oppressed Arthur with a dread which yet had something of a terrible unconfessed delight in it , that she loved him too well . 
So I told her not to promise too many . 
Thank you , Mrs. Poyser , said Arthur , not without a twinge . 
Now , sit down in this comfortable chair , and here is Mills ready to give you what you would like best . 
His eyes had followed her eagerly to night in spite of himself , and had taken in deeper draughts of love . 
He thought she behaved so prettily , so quietly she did not seem to be flirting at all she smiled less than usual there was almost a sweet sadness about her . 
But now the third dance was ended , and he might go up to her and claim her hand . 
Let me hold her , said Adam , as Molly turned upstairs the children are so heavy when they're asleep . 
Hetty was glad of the relief , for to hold Totty in her arms , standing , was not at all a pleasant variety to her . 
But this second transfer had the unfortunate effect of rousing Totty , who was not behind any child of her age in peevishness at an unseasonable awaking . 
The locket leaped out from her frock , and the next moment the string was broken , and Hetty , helpless , saw beads and locket scattered wide on the floor . 
My locket , my locket ! she said , in a loud frightened whisper to Adam never mind the beads . 
Adam had already seen where the locket fell , for it had attracted his glance as it leaped out of her frock . 
It had fallen that side upwards , so the glass was not broken . 
He turned it over on his hand , and saw the enamelled gold back . 
It isn't hurt , he said , as he held it towards Hetty , who was unable to take it because both her hands were occupied with Totty . 
Oh , it doesn't matter , I don't mind about it , said Hetty , who had been pale and was now red . 
Not matter ? said Adam , gravely . 
You seemed very frightened about it . 
I'll hold it till you're ready to take it , he added , quietly closing his hand over it , that she might not think he wanted to look at it again . 
By this time Molly had come with bonnet and shawl , and as soon as she had taken Totty , Adam placed the locket in Hetty's hand . 
See , she said , they're taking their places to dance let us go . 
A puzzled alarm had taken possession of him . 
Adam was lost in the utter impossibility of finding any person for his fears to alight on . 
They were both glad when the dance was ended . 
Adam was determined to stay no longer no one wanted him , and no one would notice if he slipped away . 
Suddenly , when he was far on through the Chase , he stopped , startled by a flash of reviving hope . 
After all , he might be a fool , making a great misery out of a trifle . 
Hetty , fond of finery as she was , might have bought the thing herself . 
It looked too expensive for that it looked like the things on white satin in the great jeweller's shop at Rosseter . 
But Adam had very imperfect notions of the value of such things , and he thought it could certainly not cost more than a guinea . 
It was a proof she cared about what he liked and disliked . 
She must have thought from his silence and gravity afterwards that he was very much displeased with her , that he was inclined to be harsh and severe towards her foibles . 
For this last view of the matter must be the true one . 
It would be folly to believe that the locket was given to her by a lover . 
The little ring of dark hair he felt sure was her own he could form no guess about the light hair under it , for he had not seen it very distinctly . 
It might be a bit of her father's or mother's , who had died when she was a child , and she would naturally put a bit of her own along with it . 
And so Adam went to bed comforted , having woven for himself an ingenious web of probabilities the surest screen a wise man can place between himself and the truth . 
And Hetty's foolish joys and hopes , which had flown away for a little space , scared by a mere nothing , now all came fluttering back , unconscious of the real peril . 
She was happy for the first time this long day , and wished that dance would last for hours . 
Mrs. Irwine and I , who are elderly people , think of sitting out the dance till then . 
Oh , Your Honour , it's all right and proper for gentlefolks to stay up by candlelight they've got no cheese on their minds . 
We're late enough as it is , an' there's no lettin' the cows know as they mustn't want to be milked so early to morrow mornin' . 
So , if you'll please t' excuse us , we'll take our leave . 
Eh ! she said to her husband , as they set off in the cart , I'd sooner ha' brewin' day and washin' day together than one o' these pleasurin' days . 
An' you've nothing to show for't when it's done , if it isn't a yallow face wi' eatin' things as disagree . 
Nay , nay , said Mr. Poyser , who was in his merriest mood , and felt that he had had a great day , a bit o' pleasuring's good for thee sometimes . 
An' thee danc'st as well as any of 'em , for I'll back thee against all the wives i' the parish for a light foot an' ankle . 
An' it was a great honour for the young squire to ask thee first I reckon it was because I sat at th' head o' the table an' made the speech . 
An' Hetty too she never had such a partner before a fine young gentleman in reg'mentals . 
It'll serve you to talk on , Hetty , when you're an old woman how you danced wi' th' young squire the day he come o' age . 
Book Four Chapter XXVII A crisis IT was beyond the middle of August nearly three weeks after the birthday feast . 
The eighteenth of August was one of these days when the sunshine looked brighter in all eyes for the gloom that went before . 
And yet the wind seemed only part of the general gladness because the sun was shining . 
But he had done the extra work cheerfully , for his hopes were buoyant again about Hetty . 
Ah ! he thought , again and again , she's only seventeen she'll be thoughtful enough after a while . 
And her aunt allays says how clever she is at the work . 
She'll make a wife as Mother'll have no occasion to grumble at , after all . 
She's takin' too much likin' to them folks i' the house keeper's room , Mrs. Poyser remarked . 
For my part , I was never overfond o' gentlefolks's servants they're mostly like the fine ladies' fat dogs , nayther good for barking nor butcher's meat , but on'y for show . 
But , when he hastened to her , she was very kind , and asked him to go in again when he had taken her to the yard gate . 
Oh , do come in with me ! she said , as he was going to shake hands with her at the gate , and he could not resist that . 
That was the last time he had seen her but he meant to make leisure for going to the Farm to morrow . 
However that might be , the repairs were ordered to be executed with all dispatch , and Adam , acting for Mr. Burge , was carrying out the order with his usual energy . 
Why , th' lad's forgot his tools , thought Adam , and he's got to work up at the shop to morrow . 
There never was such a chap for wool gathering he'd leave his head behind him , if it was loose . 
However , it's lucky I've seen 'em I'll carry 'em home . 
The buildings of the Chase Farm lay at one extremity of the Chase , at about ten minutes' walking distance from the Abbey . 
Adam had come thither on his pony , intending to ride to the stables and put up his nag on his way home . 
The wind had fallen now , and there was only enough breeze to stir the delicate stemmed leaves . 
How could he help feeling it ? The very deer felt it , and were more timid . 
After that pause , he strode on again along the broad winding path through the Grove . 
He remained as motionless as a statue , and turned almost as pale . 
After all , Adam was the best person who could have happened to see him and Hetty together he was a sensible fellow , and would not babble about it to other people . 
Arthur felt confident that he could laugh the thing off and explain it away . 
Adam was still motionless , looking at him as he came up . 
He understood it all now the locket and everything else that had been doubtful to him a terrible scorching light showed him the hidden letters that changed the meaning of the past . 
He stood as if petrified by an unseen force , but the force was his own strong will . 
I overtook pretty little Hetty Sorrel as I was coming to my den the Hermitage , there . 
She ought not to come home this way so late . 
So I took care of her to the gate , and asked for a kiss for my pains . 
But I must get back now , for this road is confoundedly damp . 
I shall see you to morrow to say good bye , you know . 
Arthur was too much preoccupied with the part he was playing himself to be thoroughly aware of the expression in Adam's face . 
He did not look directly at Adam , but glanced carelessly round at the trees and then lifted up one foot to look at the sole of his boot . 
He cared to say no more he had thrown quite dust enough into honest Adam's eyes and as he spoke the last words , he walked on . 
Stop a bit , sir , said Adam , in a hard peremptory voice , without turning round . 
I've got a word to say to you . 
Susceptible persons are more affected by a change of tone than by unexpected words , and Arthur had the susceptibility of a nature at once affectionate and vain . 
He was still more surprised when he saw that Adam had not moved , but stood with his back to him , as if summoning him to return . 
What did he mean ? He was going to make a serious business of this affair . 
Arthur felt his temper rising . 
And yet he was dominated , as one who feels himself in the wrong always is , by the man whose good opinion he cares for . 
This is not the first time you've met Hetty Sorrel in this grove , and this is not the first time you've kissed her . 
Arthur felt a startled uncertainty how far Adam was speaking from knowledge , and how far from mere inference . 
And this uncertainty , which prevented him from contriving a prudent answer , heightened his irritation . 
Let me tell you , Adam , said Arthur , bridling his growing anger and trying to recur to his careless tone , you're not only devilishly impertinent , but you're talking nonsense . 
Every pretty girl is not such a fool as you , to suppose that when a gentleman admires her beauty and pays her a little attention , he must mean something particular . 
Every man likes to flirt with a pretty girl , and every pretty girl likes to be flirted with . 
The wider the distance between them , the less harm there is , for then she's not likely to deceive herself . 
I'm not a fool , and you're not a fool , and you know better than what you're saying . 
You know it couldn't be made public as you've behaved to Hetty as y' have done without her losing her character and bringing shame and trouble on her and her relations . 
What if you meant nothing by your kissing and your presents ? Other folks won't believe as you've meant nothing and don't tell me about her not deceiving herself . 
Adam could still be deceived . 
The candid Arthur had brought himself into a position in which successful lying was his only hope . 
The hope allayed his anger a little . 
Well , Adam , he said , in a tone of friendly concession , you're perhaps right . 
Perhaps I've gone a little too far in taking notice of the pretty little thing and stealing a kiss now and then . 
You're such a grave , steady fellow , you don't understand the temptation to such trifling . 
I'm sure I wouldn't bring any trouble or annoyance on her and the good Poysers on any account if I could help it . 
But I think you look a little too seriously at it . 
You know I'm going away immediately , so I shan't make any more mistakes of the kind . 
But let us say good night Arthur here turned round to walk on and talk no more about the matter . 
The whole thing will soon be forgotten . 
All his jealousy and sense of personal injury , which he had been hitherto trying to keep under , had leaped up and mastered him . 
And you make light of it . 
You think little o' doing what may damage other folks , so as you get your bit o' trifling , as means nothing . 
I throw back your favours , for you're not the man I took you for . 
I'll never count you my friend any more . 
I'd rather you'd act as my enemy , and fight me where I stand it's all th' amends you can make me . 
Arthur's lips were now as pale as Adam's his heart was beating violently . 
The words of hatred and contempt the first he had ever heard in his life seemed like scorching missiles that were making ineffaceable scars on him . 
He was only twenty one , and three months ago nay , much later he had thought proudly that no man should ever be able to reproach him justly . 
What ! he said , won't you fight me like a man ? You know I won't strike you while you stand so . 
Go away , Adam , said Arthur , I don't want to fight you . 
No , said Adam , bitterly you don't want to fight me you think I'm a common man , as you can injure without answering for it . 
I never meant to injure you , said Arthur , with returning anger . 
I didn't know you loved her . 
But you've made her love you , said Adam . 
You're a double faced man I'll never believe a word you say again . 
Go away , I tell you , said Arthur , angrily , or we shall both repent . 
No , said Adam , with a convulsed voice , I swear I won't go away without fighting you . 
Do you want provoking any more ? I tell you you're a coward and a scoundrel , and I despise you . 
The colour had all rushed back to Arthur's face in a moment his right hand was clenched , and dealt a blow like lightning , which sent Adam staggering backward . 
The delicate handed gentleman was a match for the workman in everything but strength , and Arthur's skill enabled him to protract the struggle for some long moments . 
The blow soon came , and Arthur fell , his head lying concealed in a tuft of fern , so that Adam could only discern his darkly clad body . 
He stood still in the dim light waiting for Arthur to rise . 
He had not rescued Hetty , nor changed the past there it was , just as it had been , and he sickened at the vanity of his own rage . 
But why did not Arthur rise ? He was perfectly motionless , and the time seemed long to Adam . 
There was no sign of life the eyes and teeth were set . 
The horror that rushed over Adam completely mastered him , and forced upon him its own belief . 
He could feel nothing but that death was in Arthur's face , and that he was helpless before it . 
He made not a single movement , but knelt like an image of despair gazing at an image of death . 
The intense joy that flooded his soul brought back some of the old affection with it . 
Do you feel any pain , sir ? he said , tenderly , loosening Arthur's cravat . 
Arthur turned his eyes on Adam with a vague stare which gave way to a slightly startled motion as if from the shock of returning memory . 
But he only shivered again and said nothing . 
Do you feel any hurt , sir ? Adam said again , with a trembling in his voice . 
Arthur put his hand up to his waistcoat buttons , and when Adam had unbuttoned it , he took a longer breath . 
Lay my head down , he said , faintly , and get me some water if you can . 
When he returned with his basket leaking , but still half full , Arthur looked at him with a more thoroughly reawakened consciousness . 
Can you drink a drop out o' your hand , sir ? said Adam , kneeling down again to lift up Arthur's head . 
No , said Arthur , dip my cravat in and souse it on my head . 
The water seemed to do him some good , for he presently raised himself a little higher , resting on Adam's arm . 
Do you feel any hurt inside sir ? Adam asked again No no hurt , said Arthur , still faintly , but rather done up . 
After a while he said , I suppose I fainted away when you knocked me down . 
Yes , sir , thank God , said Adam . 
I thought it was worse . 
What ! You thought you'd done for me , eh ? Come help me on my legs . 
I feel terribly shaky and dizzy , Arthur said , as he stood leaning on Adam's arm that blow of yours must have come against me like a battering ram . 
I don't believe I can walk alone . 
Lean on me , sir I'll get you along , said Adam . 
Or , will you sit down a bit longer , on my coat here , and I'll prop y' up . 
You'll perhaps be better in a minute or two . 
I'll go to the Hermitage I think I've got some brandy there . 
There's a short road to it a little farther on , near the gate . 
If you'll just help me on . 
They walked slowly , with frequent pauses , but without speaking again . 
In both of them , the concentration in the present which had attended the first moments of Arthur's revival had now given way to a vivid recollection of the previous scene . 
Arthur loosed Adam's arm and threw himself on the ottoman . 
You'll see my hunting bottle somewhere , he said . 
A leather case with a bottle and glass in . 
Adam was not long in finding the case . 
There's very little brandy in it , sir , he said , turning it downwards over the glass , as he held it before the window hardly this little glassful . 
Well , give me that , said Arthur , with the peevishness of physical depression . 
It'll be a stiff walk home for you , if you don't have something to revive you . 
But don't say I'm ill . 
Ask for my man Pym , and tell him to get it from Mills , and not to say I'm at the Hermitage . 
Adam was relieved to have an active task both of them were relieved to be apart from each other for a short time . 
Arthur lay still for some minutes after Adam was gone , but presently he rose feebly from the ottoman and peered about slowly in the broken moonlight , seeking something . 
It was a short bit of wax candle that stood amongst a confusion of writing and drawing materials . 
It was a woman's little , pink , silk neckerchief . 
He set the candle on the table , and threw himself down on the ottoman again , exhausted with the effort . 
When Adam came back with his supplies , his entrance awoke Arthur from a doze . 
That's right , Arthur said I'm tremendously in want of some brandy vigour . 
I'm glad to see you've got a light , sir , said Adam . 
I've been thinking I'd better have asked for a lanthorn . 
No , no the candle will last long enough I shall soon be up to walking home now . 
I can't go before I've seen you safe home , sir , said Adam , hesitatingly . 
No it will be better for you to stay sit down . 
Adam sat down , and they remained opposite to each other in uneasy silence , while Arthur slowly drank brandy and water , with visibly renovating effect . 
He began to lie in a more voluntary position , and looked as if he were less overpowered by bodily sensations . 
Yet there was one thing on his mind to be done before he could recur to remonstrance it was to confess what had been unjust in his own words . 
So they sat in silence till the bit of wax candle flickered low in the socket , the silence all the while becoming more irksome to Adam . 
You begin to feel more yourself again , sir , he said , as the candle went out and they were half hidden from each other in the faint moonlight . 
Yes I don't feel good for much very lazy , and not inclined to move but I'll go home when I've taken this dose . 
There was a slight pause before Adam said , My temper got the better of me , and I said things as wasn't true . 
He paused again before he went on . 
We're not all put together alike , and we may misjudge one another . 
God knows , it's all the joy I could have now , to think the best of you . 
Arthur wanted to go home without saying any more he was too painfully embarrassed in mind , as well as too weak in body , to wish for any further explanation to night . 
And yet it was a relief to him that Adam reopened the subject in a way the least difficult for him to answer . 
Arthur was in the wretched position of an open , generous man who has committed an error which makes deception seem a necessity . 
The native impulse to give truth in return for truth , to meet trust with frank confession , must be suppressed , and duty was becoming a question of tactics . 
His deed was reacting upon him was already governing him tyrannously and forcing him into a course that jarred with his habitual feelings . 
The only aim that seemed admissible to him now was to deceive Adam to the utmost to make Adam think better of him than he deserved . 
And when he heard the words of honest retractation when he heard the sad appeal with which Adam ended he was obliged to rejoice in the remains of ignorant confidence it implied . 
He did not answer immediately , for he had to be judicious and not truthful . 
We shall be none the worse friends in future , I hope , because we've fought . 
You had the best of it , and that was as it should be , for I believe I've been most in the wrong of the two . 
Come , let us shake hands . 
Arthur held out his hand , but Adam sat still . 
I don't like to say 'No' to that , sir , he said , but I can't shake hands till it's clear what we mean by't . 
Arthur swallowed his pride and resentment as he drew back his hand . 
He was silent for some moments , and then said , as indifferently as he could , I don't know what you mean by clearing up , Adam . 
I've told you already that you think too seriously of a little flirtation . 
But if you are right in supposing there is any danger in it I'm going away on Saturday , and there will be an end of it . 
As for the pain it has given you , I'm heartily sorry for it . 
I can say no more . 
It was of no use now his resolution not to speak till to morrow . 
He must speak there and then . 
But it was several minutes before he turned round and stepped nearer to Arthur , standing and looking down on him as he lay . 
It'll be better for me to speak plain , he said , with evident effort , though it's hard work . 
You see , sir , this isn't a trifle to me , whatever it may be to you . 
I'm none o' them men as can go making love first to one woman and then t' another , and don't think it much odds which of 'em I take . 
What I feel for Hetty's a different sort o' love , such as I believe nobody can know much about but them as feel it and God as has given it to 'em . 
She's more nor everything else to me , all but my conscience and my good name . 
I'm loath to think you'd speak false to me , and I'll believe your word , however things may look . 
You would be wronging Hetty more than me not to believe it , said Arthur , almost violently , starting up from the ottoman and moving away . 
But he threw himself into a chair again directly , saying , more feebly , You seem to forget that , in suspecting me , you are casting imputations upon her . 
And whatever you may think , I know you've disturbed her mind . 
I know she's been fixing her heart on you , for there's a many things clear to me now as I didn't understand before . 
But you seem to make light o' what she may feel you don't think o' that . 
Good God , Adam , let me alone ! Arthur burst out impetuously I feel it enough without your worrying me . 
He was aware of his indiscretion as soon as the words had escaped him . 
I ask you t' undeceive her before you go away . 
It may be a smart to her now , but it'll save her pain i' th' end . 
I ask you to write a letter you may trust to my seeing as she gets it . 
Tell her the truth , and take blame to yourself for behaving as you'd no right to do to a young woman as isn't your equal . 
I speak plain , sir , but I can't speak any other way . 
There's nobody can take care o' Hetty in this thing but me . 
I can do what I think needful in the matter , said Arthur , more and more irritated by mingled distress and perplexity , without giving promises to you . 
I shall take what measures I think proper . 
No , said Adam , in an abrupt decided tone , that won't do . 
I must know what ground I'm treading on . 
I must be safe as you've put an end to what ought never to ha' been begun . 
I don't forget what's owing to you as a gentleman , but in this thing we're man and man , and I can't give up . 
There was no answer for some moments . 
Then Arthur said , I'll see you to morrow . 
I can bear no more now I'm ill . 
He rose as he spoke , and reached his cap , as if intending to go . 
You won't see her again ! Adam exclaimed , with a flash of recurring anger and suspicion , moving towards the door and placing his back against it . 
Either tell me she can never be my wife tell me you've been lying or else promise me what I've said . 
It seemed long to both of them that inward struggle of Arthur's before he said , feebly , I promise let me go . 
Adam moved away from the door and opened it , but when Arthur reached the step , he stopped again and leaned against the door post . 
You're not well enough to walk alone , sir , said Adam . 
Arthur made no answer , and presently walked on , Adam following . 
But , after a few steps , he stood still again , and said , coldly , I believe I must trouble you . 
It's getting late now , and there may be an alarm set up about me at home . 
Adam gave his arm , and they walked on without uttering a word , till they came where the basket and the tools lay . 
I must pick up the tools , sir , Adam said . 
I doubt they'll be rusted . 
If you'll please to wait a minute . 
Arthur stood still without speaking , and no other word passed between them till they were at the side entrance , where he hoped to get in without being seen by any one . 
He said then , Thank you I needn't trouble you any further . 
What time will it be conven'ent for me to see you to morrow , sir ? said Adam . 
You may send me word that you're here at five o'clock , said Arthur not before . 
Good night , sir , said Adam . 
But he heard no reply Arthur had turned into the house . 
Chapter XXIX The Next Morning ARTHUR did not pass a sleepless night he slept long and well . 
For sleep comes to the perplexed if the perplexed are only weary enough . 
But at seven he rang his bell and astonished Pym by declaring he was going to get up , and must have breakfast brought to him at eight . 
And see that my mare is saddled at half past eight , and tell my grandfather when he's down that I'm better this morning and am gone for a ride . 
He had been awake an hour , and could rest in bed no longer . 
Arthur felt that he should be more of a man on horseback . 
Even the presence of Pym , waiting on him with the usual deference , was a reassurance to him after the scenes of yesterday . 
Arthur's , as you know , was a loving nature . 
Deeds of kindness were as easy to him as a bad habit they were the common issue of his weaknesses and good qualities , of his egoism and his sympathy . 
He didn't like to witness pain , and he liked to have grateful eyes beaming on him as the giver of pleasure . 
He had been the same Arthur ever since , trying to make all offences forgotten in benefits . 
If there were any bitterness in his nature , it could only show itself against the man who refused to be conciliated by him . 
And perhaps the time was come for some of that bitterness to rise . 
At the first moment , Arthur had felt pure distress and self reproach at discovering that Adam's happiness was involved in his relation to Hetty . 
But Adam could receive no amends his suffering could not be cancelled his respect and affection could not be recovered by any prompt deeds of atonement . 
He stood like an immovable obstacle against which no pressure could avail an embodiment of what Arthur most shrank from believing in the irrevocableness of his own wrongdoing . 
Arthur would so gladly have persuaded himself that he had done no harm ! And if no one had told him the contrary , he could have persuaded himself so much better . 
And so it was with Arthur Adam's judgment of him , Adam's grating words , disturbed his self soothing arguments . 
Not that Arthur had been at ease before Adam's discovery . 
Struggles and resolves had transformed themselves into compunction and anxiety . 
He was distressed for Hetty's sake , and distressed for his own , that he must leave her behind . 
It was his painful knowledge of this which had given the most exasperating sting to Adam's reproaches . 
That was the one sharp point which pressed against him every other he could evade by hopeful self persuasion . 
The whole thing had been secret the Poysers had not the shadow of a suspicion . 
It was an unfortunate business altogether , but there was no use in making it worse than it was by imaginary exaggerations and forebodings of evil that might never come . 
The temporary sadness for Hetty was the worst consequence he resolutely turned away his eyes from any bad consequence that was not demonstrably inevitable . 
But but Hetty might have had the trouble in some other way if not in this . 
And perhaps hereafter he might be able to do a great deal for her and make up to her for all the tears she would shed about him . 
She would owe the advantage of his care for her in future years to the sorrow she had incurred now . 
So good comes out of evil . 
Europe adjusts itself to a fait accompli , and so does an individual character until the placid adjustment is disturbed by a convulsive retribution . 
Self accusation was too painful to him he could not face it . 
But then , it was the only right thing to do . 
And across all this reflection would dart every now and then a sudden impulse of passionate defiance towards all consequences . 
He would carry Hetty away , and all other considerations might go to . 
He had only an hour or two to make up his mind in , and he must get clear and calm . 
Once on Meg's back , in the fresh air of that fine morning , he should be more master of the situation . 
He loved her the better because she knew nothing of his secrets . 
Arthur cantered for five miles beyond the Chase , till he was at the foot of a hill where there were no hedges or trees to hem in the road . 
Then he threw the bridle on Meg's neck and prepared to make up his mind . 
He could do nothing but comfort her , and lull her into dreaming on . 
And it was the only way of satisfying Adam , who must be satisfied , for more reasons than one . 
If he could have seen her again ! But that was impossible there was such a thorny hedge of hindrances between them , and an imprudence would be fatal . 
And yet , if he COULD see her again , what good would it do ? Only cause him to suffer more from the sight of her distress and the remembrance of it . 
Away from him she was surrounded by all the motives to self control . 
But he shook them off with the force of youth and hope . 
What was the ground for painting the future in that dark way ? It was just as likely to be the reverse . 
Arthur told himself he did not deserve that things should turn out badly . 
He had never meant beforehand to do anything his conscience disapproved he had been led on by circumstances . 
There was a sort of implicit confidence in him that he was really such a good fellow at bottom , Providence would not treat him harshly . 
At all events , he couldn't help what would come now all he could do was to take what seemed the best course at the present moment . 
And he persuaded himself that that course was to make the way open between Adam and Hetty . 
To be sure , Adam was deceived deceived in a way that Arthur would have resented as a deep wrong if it had been practised on himself . 
That was a reflection that marred the consoling prospect . 
Arthur's cheeks even burned in mingled shame and irritation at the thought . 
But what could a man do in such a dilemma ? He was bound in honour to say no word that could injure Hetty his first duty was to guard her . 
He would never have told or acted a lie on his own account . 
Good God ! What a miserable fool he was to have brought himself into such a dilemma and yet , if ever a man had excuses , he had . 
Well , the letter must be written it was the only means that promised a solution of the difficulty . 
He could never deliberately have taken a step which inflicted pain on another and left himself at ease . 
Even a movement of jealousy at the thought of giving up Hetty to Adam went to convince him that he was making a sacrifice . 
When once he had come to this conclusion , he turned Meg round and set off home again in a canter . 
The letter should be written the first thing , and the rest of the day would be filled up with other business he should have no time to look behind him . 
Happily , Irwine and Gawaine were coming to dinner , and by twelve o'clock the next day he should have left the Chase miles behind him . 
There was some security in this constant occupation against an uncontrollable impulse seizing him to rush to Hetty and thrust into her hand some mad proposition that would undo everything . 
Faster and faster went the sensitive Meg , at every slight sign from her rider , till the canter had passed into a swift gallop . 
I thought they said th' young mester war took ill last night , said sour old John , the groom , at dinner time in the servants' hall . 
He's been ridin' fit to split the mare i' two this forenoon . 
That's happen one o' the symptims , John , said the facetious coachman . 
Then I wish he war let blood for 't , that's all , said John , grimly . 
At five o'clock he was punctually there again , and sent up word of his arrival . 
The letter was directed to Adam , but he went out of doors again before opening it . 
It contained a sealed enclosure directed to Hetty . 
On the inside of the cover Adam read In the enclosed letter I have written everything you wish . 
I leave it to you to decide whether you will be doing best to deliver it to Hetty or to return it to me . 
Ask yourself once more whether you are not taking a measure which may pain her more than mere silence . 
There is no need for our seeing each other again now . 
We shall meet with better feelings some months hence . 
A. D. Perhaps he's i' th' right on 't not to see me , thought Adam . 
It's no use meeting to say more hard words , and it's no use meeting to shake hands and say we're friends again . 
We're not friends , an' it's better not to pretend it . 
He's not the same man to me , and I can't feel the same towards him . 
But the question about delivering the letter to Hetty soon absorbed Adam's thoughts . 
Arthur had procured some relief to himself by throwing the decision on Adam with a warning and Adam , who was not given to hesitation , hesitated here . 
He determined to feel his way to ascertain as well as he could what was Hetty's state of mind before he decided on delivering the letter . 
Chapter XXX The Delivery of the Letter THE next Sunday Adam joined the Poysers on their way out of church , hoping for an invitation to go home with them . 
He had the letter in his pocket , and was anxious to have an opportunity of talking to Hetty alone . 
He could not see her face at church , for she had changed her seat , and when he came up to her to shake hands , her manner was doubtful and constrained . 
He expected this , for it was the first time she had met him since she had been aware that he had seen her with Arthur in the Grove . 
Hetty said , Very well . 
She was really as anxious as Adam was that she should have some private talk with him . 
She wondered what he thought of her and Arthur . 
He must have seen them kissing , she knew , but she had no conception of the scene that had taken place between Arthur and Adam . 
But , now he wanted to talk to her by herself , she should learn what he thought and what he meant to do . 
Besides , she MUST go on seeming to encourage Adam , lest her uncle and aunt should be angry and suspect her of having some secret lover . 
Perhaps the resemblance was not much the less because Hetty felt very unhappy all the while . 
She clung to the comforting hopeful words Arthur had uttered in their last meeting I shall come again at Christmas , and then we will see what can be done . 
She could gather no elation of spirits now by looking forward , but only by looking backward to build confidence on past words and caresses . 
It was but a short time hardly two months since Adam had had his mind filled with delicious hopes as he stood by Hetty's side un this garden . 
The remembrance of that scene had often been with him since Thursday evening the sunlight through the apple tree boughs , the red bunches , Hetty's sweet blush . 
After what I saw on Thursday night , Hetty , he began , you won't think me making too free in what I'm going to say . 
I can't speak about it to them as are i' the place o' your parents , for that might bring worse trouble than's needful . 
Adam's words relieved one of Hetty's fears , but they also carried a meaning which sickened her with a strengthened foreboding . 
She was pale and trembling , and yet she would have angrily contradicted Adam , if she had dared to betray her feelings . 
You're so young , you know , Hetty , he went on , almost tenderly , and y' haven't seen much o' what goes on in the world . 
It's right for me to do what I can to save you from getting into trouble for want o' your knowing where you're being led to . 
If anybody besides me knew what I know about your meeting a gentleman and having fine presents from him , they'd speak light on you , and you'd lose your character . 
Adam paused and looked at Hetty , who was plucking the leaves from the filbert trees and tearing them up in her hand . 
Her little plans and preconcerted speeches had all forsaken her , like an ill learnt lesson , under the terrible agitation produced by Adam's words . 
There was a cruel force in their calm certainty which threatened to grapple and crush her flimsy hopes and fancies . 
She wanted to resist them she wanted to throw them off with angry contradiction but the determination to conceal what she felt still governed her . 
It was nothing more than a blind prompting now , for she was unable to calculate the effect of her words . 
You've no right to say as I love him , she said , faintly , but impetuously , plucking another rough leaf and tearing it up . 
She was very beautiful in her paleness and agitation , with her dark childish eyes dilated and her breath shorter than usual . 
Adam's heart yearned over her as he looked at her . 
I'm not blaming you , for I know it 'ud begin by little and little , till at last you'd not be able to throw it off . 
It's him I blame for stealing your love i' that way , when he knew he could never make you the right amends . 
He's been trifling with you , and making a plaything of you , and caring nothing about you as a man ought to care . 
Yes , he does care for me I know better nor you , Hetty burst out . 
Everything was forgotten but the pain and anger she felt at Adam's words . 
Nay , Hetty , said Adam , if he'd cared for you rightly , he'd never ha' behaved so . 
He told me himself he meant nothing by his kissing and presents , and he wanted to make me believe as you thought light of 'em too . 
But I know better nor that . 
I can't help thinking as you've been trusting to his loving you well enough to marry you , for all he's a gentleman . 
And that's why I must speak to you about it , Hetty , for fear you should be deceiving yourself . 
It's never entered his head the thought o' marrying you . 
How do you know ? How durst you say so ? said Hetty , pausing in her walk and trembling . 
The terrible decision of Adam's tone shook her with fear . 
She had no presence of mind left for the reflection that Arthur would have his reasons for not telling the truth to Adam . 
Her words and look were enough to determine Adam he must give her the letter . 
Perhaps you can't believe me , Hetty , because you think too well of him because you think he loves you better than he does . 
But I've got a letter i' my pocket , as he wrote himself for me to give you . 
I've not read the letter , but he says he's told you the truth in it . 
But before I give you the letter , consider , Hetty , and don't let it take too much hold on you . 
It wouldna ha' been good for you if he'd wanted to do such a mad thing as marry you it 'ud ha' led to no happiness i' th' end . 
Hetty said nothing she felt a revival of hope at the mention of a letter which Adam had not read . 
There would be something quite different in it from what he thought . 
God knows I'd ha' borne a good deal worse for the sake o' sparing it you . 
And think there's nobody but me knows about this , and I'll take care of you as if I was your brother . 
You're the same as ever to me , for I don't believe you've done any wrong knowingly . 
Hetty had laid her hand on the letter , but Adam did not loose it till he had done speaking . 
You're in the right not to read it just yet , said Adam . 
Read it when you're by yourself . 
But stay out a little bit longer , and let us call the children you look so white and ill , your aunt may take notice of it . 
It recalled to her the necessity of rallying her native powers of concealment , which had half given way under the shock of Adam's words . 
And she had the letter in her pocket she was sure there was comfort in that letter in spite of Adam . 
Hegh , Totty , said Adam , come and ride on my shoulder ever so high you'll touch the tops o' the trees . 
Bless your sweet face , my pet , she said , the mother's strong love filling her keen eyes with mildness , as Totty leaned forward and put out her arms . 
Then there was supper to be got ready , and Hetty must be continually in the way to give help . 
He lingered , because he wanted to see her safely through that evening , and he was delighted to find how much self command she showed . 
It was hard work for him to leave her hard to think that he should not know for days how she was bearing her trouble . 
Adam was a clear sighted , fair minded man a fine fellow , indeed , morally as well as physically . 
But if Aristides the Just was ever in love and jealous , he was at that moment not perfectly magnanimous . 
And I cannot pretend that Adam , in these painful days , felt nothing but righteous indignation and loving pity . 
He was bitterly jealous , and in proportion as his love made him indulgent in his judgment of Hetty , the bitterness found a vent in his feeling towards Arthur . 
He could not help drawing his own hands out of his pocket and looking at them at the hard palms and the broken finger nails . 
But it's little matter what other women think about me , if she can't love me . 
And yet there's no telling she may turn round the other way , when she finds he's made light of her all the while . 
She may come to feel the vally of a man as 'ud be thankful to be bound to her all his life . 
But I must put up with it whichever way it is I've only to be thankful it's been no worse . 
I am not th' only man that's got to do without much happiness i' this life . 
There's many a good bit o' work done with a bad heart . 
Since I've been spared that , I've no right to grumble . 
When a man's got his limbs whole , he can bear a smart cut or two . 
As Adam was getting over a stile at this point in his reflections , he perceived a man walking along the field before him . 
He knew it was Seth , returning from an evening preaching , and made haste to overtake him . 
I thought thee'dst be at home before me , he said , as Seth turned round to wait for him , for I'm later than usual to night . 
It's one o' them subjects that lead you further than y' expect they don't lie along the straight road . 
They walked along together in silence two or three minutes . 
Adam was not inclined to enter into the subtleties of religious experience , but he was inclined to interchange a word or two of brotherly affection and confidence with Seth . 
That was a rare impulse in him , much as the brothers loved each other . 
They hardly ever spoke of personal matters , or uttered more than an allusion to their family troubles . 
Adam was by nature reserved in all matters of feeling , and Seth felt a certain timidity towards his more practical brother . 
Seth , lad , Adam said , putting his arm on his brother's shoulder , hast heard anything from Dinah Morris since she went away ? Yes , said Seth . 
She told me I might write her word after a while , how we went on , and how mother bore up under her trouble . 
I think thee'dst perhaps like to read it , but I didna say anything about it because thee'st seemed so full of other things . 
It's quite easy t' read she writes wonderful for a woman . 
Trouble doesna make me care the less for thee . 
I know we shall stick together to the last . 
I take nought ill o' thee , Adam . 
I know well enough what it means if thee't a bit short wi' me now and then . 
There's Mother opening the door to look out for us , said Adam , as they mounted the slope . 
She's been sitting i' the dark as usual . 
Eh , my lads ! Th' hours war ne'er so long sin' I war born as they'n been this blessed Sunday night . 
What can ye both ha' been doin' till this time ? Thee shouldstna sit i' the dark , Mother , said Adam that makes the time seem longer . 
It 'ud be a fine way o' shortenin' the time , to make it waste the good candle . 
But which on you's for ha'in' supper ? Ye mun ayther be clemmed or full , I should think , seein' what time o' night it is . 
I'm hungry , Mother , said Seth , seating himself at the little table , which had been spread ever since it was light . 
I've had my supper , said Adam . 
Here , Gyp , he added , taking some cold potato from the table and rubbing the rough grey head that looked up towards him . 
Thee needstna be gi'in' th' dog , said Lisbeth I'n fed him well a'ready . 
I'm not like to forget him , I reckon , when he's all o' thee I can get sight on . 
Come , then , Gyp , said Adam , we'll go to bed . 
Good night , Mother I'm very tired . 
What ails him , dost know ? Lisbeth said to Seth , when Adam was gone upstairs . 
He's like as if he was struck for death this day or two he's so cast down . 
I found him i' the shop this forenoon , arter thee wast gone , a sittin' an' doin' nothin' not so much as a booke afore him . 
He's a deal o' work upon him just now , Mother , said Seth , and I think he's a bit troubled in his mind . 
Don't you take notice of it , because it hurts him when you do . 
Be as kind to him as you can , Mother , and don't say anything to vex him . 
Eh , what dost talk o' my vexin' him ? An' what am I like to be but kind ? I'll ma' him a kettle cake for breakfast i' the mornin' . 
Adam , meanwhile , was reading Dinah's letter by the light of his dip candle . 
My heart is knit to your aged mother since it was granted me to be near her in the day of trouble . 
Ah , that is a blessed time , isn't it , Seth , when the outward light is fading , and the body is a little wearied with its work and its labour . 
Then the inward light shines the brighter , and we have a deeper sense of resting on the Divine strength . 
I sit on my chair in the dark room and close my eyes , and it is as if I was out of the body and could feel no want for evermore . 
It is not the spirit only that tells me this I see it in the whole work and word of the Gospel . 
I have heard this enlarged on as if it meant the troubles and persecutions we bring on ourselves by confessing Jesus . 
But surely that is a narrow thought . 
In my outward lot , which you ask about , I have all things and abound . 
My aunt has not the pen of a ready writer , and the work of the house is sufficient for the day , for she is weak in body . 
My heart cleaves to her and her children as the nearest of all to me in the flesh yea , and to all in that house . 
There may be some leading here but I wait to be taught . 
You say they are all well . 
Farewell , dear brother and yet not farewell . 
For their souls are enlarged for evermore by that union , and they bear one another about in their thoughts continually as it were a new strength . 
Your faithful Sister and fellow worker in Christ , DINAH MORRIS . 
I have not skill to write the words so small as you do and my pen moves slow . 
And so I am straitened , and say but little of what is in my mind . 
Greet your mother for me with a kiss . 
She asked me to kiss her twice when we parted . 
Adam had refolded the letter , and was sitting meditatively with his head resting on his arm at the head of the bed , when Seth came upstairs . 
Hast read the letter ? said Seth . 
I don't know what I should ha' thought of her and her letter if I'd never seen her I daresay I should ha' thought a preaching woman hateful . 
But she's one as makes everything seem right she says and does , and I seemed to see her and hear her speaking when I read the letter . 
It's wonderful how I remember her looks and her voice . 
She'd make thee rare and happy , Seth she's just the woman for thee . 
It's no use thinking o' that , said Seth , despondingly . 
She spoke so firm , and she's not the woman to say one thing and mean another . 
Nay , but her feelings may grow different . 
A woman may get to love by degrees the best fire dosna flare up the soonest . 
I should like to see her again , whether or no , if she wouldna be displeased with me for going , said Seth . 
She'll be none displeased , said Adam emphatically , getting up and throwing off his coat . 
It might be a great happiness to us all if she'd have thee , for mother took to her so wonderful and seemed so contented to be with her . 
Aye , said Seth , rather timidly , and Dinah's fond o' Hetty too she thinks a deal about her . 
Adam made no reply to that , and no other word but good night passed between them . 
Now she would read her letter . 
It must it must have comfort in it . 
How was Adam to know the truth ? It was always likely he should say what he did say . 
She set down the candle and took out the letter . 
It had a faint scent of roses , which made her feel as if Arthur were close to her . 
She put it to her lips , and a rush of remembered sensations for a moment or two swept away all fear . 
But her heart began to flutter strangely , and her hands to tremble as she broke the seal . 
She read slowly it was not easy for her to read a gentleman's handwriting , though Arthur had taken pains to write plainly . 
DEAREST HETTY I have spoken truly when I have said that I loved you , and I shall never forget our love . 
I shall be your true friend as long as life lasts , and I hope to prove this to you in many ways . 
It is very hard for me to part from her harder still for me to write words which may seem unkind , though they spring from the truest kindness . 
I ought to have resisted my feelings . 
And since I cannot marry you , we must part we must try not to feel like lovers any more . 
I am miserable while I say this , but nothing else can be . 
I have told you where you are to direct a letter to , if you want to write , but I put it down below lest you should have forgotten . 
Do not write unless there is something I can really do for you for , dear Hetty , we must try to think of each other as little as we can . 
Forgive me , and try to forget everything about me , except that I shall be , as long as I live , your affectionate friend , ARTHUR DONNITHORNE . 
Hetty did not see the face she saw nothing she only felt that she was cold and sick and trembling . 
The letter shook and rustled in her hand . 
It was a horrible sensation this cold and trembling . 
Presently she took up the letter with a firmer hand , and began to read it through again . 
The tears came this time great rushing tears that blinded her and blotched the paper . 
She felt nothing but that Arthur was cruel cruel to write so , cruel not to marry her . 
She sat sobbing till the candle went out , and then , wearied , aching , stupefied with crying , threw herself on the bed without undressing and went to sleep . 
And then came the frightening thought that she had to conceal her misery as well as to bear it , in this dreary daylight that was coming . 
She could lie no longer . 
She got up and went towards the table there lay the letter . 
She opened her treasure drawer there lay the ear rings and the locket the signs of all her short happiness the signs of the lifelong dreariness that was to follow it . 
She had to hold it close to the window , else she could not have read it by the faint light . 
Yes ! It was worse it was more cruel . 
She crushed it up again in anger . 
She hated the writer of that letter hated him for the very reason that she hung upon him with all her love all the girlish passion and vanity that made up her love . 
She had no tears this morning . 
Every morning to come , as far as her imagination could stretch , she would have to get up and feel that the day would have no joy for her . 
These things were all flat and dreary to her now everything would be a weariness , and she would carry about for ever a hopeless thirst and longing . 
She paused in the midst of her languid undressing and leaned against the dark old clothes press . 
She was not thinking of her neck and arms now even her own beauty was indifferent to her . 
Her eyes wandered sadly over the dull old chamber , and then looked out vacantly towards the growing dawn . 
Any affection or comfort Dinah could have given her would have been as indifferent to Hetty this morning as everything else was except her bruised passion . 
She was only thinking she could never stay here and go on with the old life she could better bear something quite new than sinking back into the old everyday round . 
She would like to run away that very morning , and never see any of the old faces again . 
But Hetty's was not a nature to face difficulties to dare to loose her hold on the familiar and rush blindly on some unknown condition . 
Hers was a luxurious and vain nature not a passionate one and if she were ever to take any violent measure , she must be urged to it by the desperation of terror . 
Miss Lydia's maid would help her to get a situation , if she krew Hetty had her uncle's leave . 
When she had thought of this , she fastened up her hair and began to wash it seemed more possible to her to go downstairs and try to behave as usual . 
She would ask her uncle this very day . 
She wiped them away quickly she must not cry in the day time . 
For Hetty looked out from her secret misery towards the possibility of their ever knowing what had happened , as the sick and weary prisoner might think of the possible pillory . 
They would think her conduct shameful , and shame was torture . 
That was poor little Hetty's conscience . 
So she locked up her drawer and went away to her early work . 
Mr. Poyser took the pipe from his mouth and looked at Hetty in mild surprise for some moments . 
She was sewing , and went on with her work industriously . 
Why , what's put that into your head , my wench ? he said at last , after he had given one conservative puff . 
I should like it I should like it better than farm work . 
Nay , nay you fancy so because you donna know it , my wench . 
It wouldn't be half so good for your health , nor for your luck i' life . 
Mr. Poyser paused , and puffed away at his pipe . 
I like the needlework , said Hetty , and I should get good wages . 
Has your aunt been a bit sharp wi' you ? said Mr. Poyser , not noticing Hetty's further argument . 
You mustna mind that , my wench she does it for your good . 
She wishes you well an' there isn't many aunts as are no kin to you 'ud ha' done by you as she has . 
No , it isn't my aunt , said Hetty , but I should like the work better . 
It was all very well for you to learn the work a bit an' I gev my consent to that fast enough , sin' Mrs. Pomfret was willing to teach you . 
For if anything was t' happen , it's well to know how to turn your hand to different sorts o' things . 
But the wench takes arter her mother . 
Her mother's fortune had been spent by that good for nought Sorrel , and Hetty had Sorrel's blood in her veins . 
Poor thing , poor thing ! said Martin the younger , who was sorry to have provoked this retrospective harshness . 
But Hetty's got as good a chance o' getting a solid , sober husband as any gell i' this country . 
But instead of that , Hetty , in spite of herself , began to cry , half out of ill temper at the denial , half out of the day's repressed sadness . 
Hegh , hegh ! said Mr. Poyser , meaning to check her playfully , don't let's have any crying . 
Crying's for them as ha' got no home , not for them as want to get rid o' one . 
Think ? Why , I think we shall have the fowl stole before we are much older , wi' that gell forgetting to lock the pens up o' nights . 
What's the matter now , Hetty ? What are you crying at ? Why , she's been wanting to go for a lady's maid , said Mr. Poyser . 
I tell her we can do better for her nor that . 
I thought she'd got some maggot in her head , she's gone about wi' her mouth buttoned up so all day . 
It's all wi' going so among them servants at the Chase , as we war fools for letting her . 
She thinks it 'ud be a finer life than being wi' them as are akin to her and ha' brought her up sin' she war no bigger nor Marty . 
She thinks there's nothing belongs to being a lady's maid but wearing finer clothes nor she was born to , I'll be bound . 
Aye , aye , said Mr. Poyser , we must have a better husband for her nor that , and there's better at hand . 
Come , my wench , give over crying and get to bed . 
I'll do better for you nor letting you go for a lady's maid . 
Let's hear no more on't . 
When Hetty was gone upstairs he said , I canna make it out as she should want to go away , for I thought she'd got a mind t' Adam Bede . 
She's looked like it o' late . 
Eh , there's no knowing what she's got a liking to , for things take no more hold on her than if she was a dried pea . 
But I'll put a stop to it pretty quick . 
Thee'dst be sorry to part wi' her , if it wasn't for her good , said Mr. Poyser . 
She's useful to thee i' the work . 
Sorry ? Yes , I'm fonder on her nor she deserves a little hard hearted hussy , wanting to leave us i' that way . 
I can't ha' had her about me these seven year , I reckon , and done for her , and taught her everything wi'out caring about her . 
Nay , nay , thee mustna make much of a trifle , said Mr. Poyser , soothingly . 
She's fond on us , I'll be bound but she's young , an' gets things in her head as she can't rightly give account on . 
Them young fillies 'ull run away often wi' ou knowing why . 
Her uncle's answers , however , had had another effect on Hetty besides that of disappointing her and making her cry . 
Why should she not marry Adam ? She did not care what she did , so that it made some change in her life . 
She felt confident that he would still want to marry her , and any further thought about Adam's happiness in the matter had never yet visited her . 
So are the motions of a little vessel without ballast tossed about on a stormy sea . 
How pretty it looked with its parti coloured sail in the sunlight , moored in the quiet bay ! Let that man bear the loss who loosed it from its moorings . 
But that will not save the vessel the pretty thing that might have been a lasting joy . 
No one had thought of denying Mr. Casson's testimony to the fact that he had seen the stranger nevertheless , he proffered various corroborating circumstances . 
I see him myself , he said I see him coming along by the Crab tree Meadow on a bald faced hoss . 
There'll be a bit got hin , if we've good luck . 
I daresay he'd think me a hodd talker , as you Loamshire folks allays does hany one as talks the right language . 
The right language ! said Bartle Massey , contemptuously . 
You're about as near the right language as a pig's squeaking is like a tune played on a key bugle . 
Well , I don't know , answered Mr. Casson , with an angry smile . 
I should think a man as has lived among the gentry from a by , is likely to know what's the right language pretty nigh as well as a schoolmaster . 
Aye , aye , man , said Bartle , with a tone of sarcastic consolation , you talk the right language for you . 
When Mike Holdsworth's goat says ba a a , it's all right it 'ud be unnatural for it to make any other noise . 
But Poyser's a fool if he does . 
Is your husband at home , Mrs. Poyser ? Yes , sir he's only i' the rick yard . 
I'll send for him in a minute , if you'll please to get down and step in . 
Thank you I will do so . 
I want to consult him about a little matter but you are quite as much concerned in it , if not more . 
I must have your opinion too . 
What a fine old kitchen this is ! said Mr. Donnithorne , looking round admiringly . 
He always spoke in the same deliberate , well chiselled , polite way , whether his words were sugary or venomous . 
And you keep it so exquisitely clean , Mrs. Poyser . 
I like these premises , do you know , beyond any on the estate . 
Won't you please to sit down , sir ? Not yet I must see your dairy . 
I think I see the door open , there . 
You must not be surprised if I cast a covetous eye on your cream and butter . 
I don't expect that Mrs. Satchell's cream and butter will bear comparison with yours . 
I can't say , sir , I'm sure . 
It's seldom I see other folks's butter , though there's some on it as one's no need to see the smell's enough . 
Ah , now this I like , said Mr. Donnithorne , looking round at the damp temple of cleanliness , but keeping near the door . 
I'm sure I should like my breakfast better if I knew the butter and cream came from this dairy . 
Thank you , that really is a pleasant sight . 
Unfortunately , my slight tendency to rheumatism makes me afraid of damp I'll sit down in your comfortable kitchen . 
Ah , Poyser , how do you do ? In the midst of business , I see , as usual . 
Will you please to take this chair , sir ? he said , lifting his father's arm chair forward a little you'll find it easy . 
No , thank you , I never sit in easy chairs , said the old gentleman , seating himself on a small chair near the door . 
Do you know , Mrs. Poyser sit down , pray , both of you I've been far from contented , for some time , with Mrs. Satchell's dairy management . 
I think she has not a good method , as you have . 
Poyser might sit down if he liked , she thought she wasn't going to sit down , as if she'd give in to any such smooth tongued palaver . 
Mr. Poyser , who looked and felt the reverse of icy , did sit down in his three cornered chair . 
And now , Poyser , as Satchell is laid up , I am intending to let the Chase Farm to a respectable tenant . 
I'm tired of having a farm on my own hands nothing is made the best of in such cases , as you know . 
Oh , said Mr. Poyser , with a good natured blankness of imagination as to the nature of the arrangement . 
Not but what I'm glad to hear o' anybody respectable coming into the parish there's some as ha' been brought in as hasn't been looked on i' that character . 
Indeed , sir , if it's anything t' our advantage , it'll be the first offer o' the sort I've heared on . 
It's them as take advantage that get advantage i' this world , I think . 
Folks have to wait long enough afore it's brought to 'em . 
Now , the plan I'm thinking of is to effect a little exchange . 
On the other hand , Poyser , you might let Thurle have the Lower and Upper Ridges , which really , with our wet seasons , would be a good riddance for you . 
There is much less risk in dairy land than corn land . 
If you could make a pudding wi' thinking o' the batter , it 'ud be easy getting dinner . 
Bethell will do that regularly with the cart and pony . 
If we're to go to ruin , it shanna be wi' having our back kitchen turned into a public . 
I can easily make another arrangement about supplying my house . 
And I shall not forget your readiness to accommodate your landlord as well as a neighbour . 
But I don't want to part with an old tenant like you . 
To be thrust out of the discussion in this way would have been enough to complete Mrs. Poyser's exasperation , even without the final threat . 
when Mrs. Poyser burst in with the desperate determination to have her say out this once , though it were to rain notices to quit and the only shelter were the work house . 
See if you'll get a stranger to lead such a life here as that a maggot must be born i' the rotten cheese to like it , I reckon . 
An' you may be right i' thinking it'll take but little to save your soul , for it'll be the smallest savin' y' iver made , wi' all your scrapin' . 
Perhaps he suspected that sour old John was grinning behind him which was also the fact . 
Thee'st done it now , said Mr. Poyser , a little alarmed and uneasy , but not without some triumphant amusement at his wife's outbreak . 
Yes , I know I've done it , said Mrs. Poyser but I've had my say out , and I shall be th' easier for't all my life . 
There's no pleasure i' living if you're to be corked up for ever , and only dribble your mind out by the sly , like a leaky barrel . 
But thee wutna like moving from th' old place , this Michaelmas twelvemonth , said Mr. Poyser , and going into a strange parish , where thee know'st nobody . 
It'll be hard upon us both , and upo' Father too . 
Eh , it's no use worreting there's plenty o' things may happen between this and Michaelmas twelvemonth . 
We should leave our roots behind us , I doubt , and niver thrive again . 
Chapter XXXIII More Links THE barley was all carried at last , and the harvest suppers went by without waiting for the dismal black crop of beans . 
The apples and nuts were gathered and stored the scent of whey departed from the farm houses , and the scent of brewing came in its stead . 
The woods behind the Chase , and all the hedgerow trees , took on a solemn splendour under the dark low hanging skies . 
The news that Bony was come back from Egypt was comparatively insipid , and the repulse of the French in Italy was nothing to Mrs. Poyser's repulse of the old squire . 
Mr. Irwine had heard a version of it in every parishioner's house , with the one exception of the Chase . 
No , no , Mother , said Mr. Irwine it was a little bit of irregular justice on Mrs. Poyser's part , but a magistrate like me must not countenance irregular justice . 
There must be no report spread that I have taken notice of the quarrel , else I shall lose the little good influence I have over the old man . 
Well , I like that woman even better than her cream cheeses , said Mrs. Irwine . 
She has the spirit of three men , with that pale face of hers . 
And she says such sharp things too . 
Sharp ! Yes , her tongue is like a new set razor . 
She's quite original in her talk too one of those untaught wits that help to stock a country with proverbs . 
I told you that capital thing I heard her say about Craig that he was like a cock , who thought the sun had risen to hear him crow . 
Now that's an AEsop's fable in a sentence . 
But it will be a bad business if the old gentleman turns them out of the farm next Michaelmas , eh ? said Mrs. Irwine . 
Oh , that must not be and Poyser is such a good tenant that Donnithorne is likely to think twice , and digest his spleen rather than turn them out . 
But if he should give them notice at Lady Day , Arthur and I must move heaven and earth to mollify him . 
Such old parishioners as they are must not go . 
Ah , there's no knowing what may happen before Lady day , said Mrs. Irwine . 
It struck me on Arthur's birthday that the old man was a little shaken he's eighty three , you know . 
It's really an unconscionable age . 
It's only women who have a right to live as long as that . 
When they've got old bachelor sons who would be forlorn without them , said Mr. Irwine , laughing , and kissing his mother's hand . 
But it is really too hard upon human nature that it should be held a criminal offence to imagine the death even of the king when he is turned eighty three . 
It is not to be believed that any but the dullest Britons can be good subjects under that hard condition . 
Apart from this foreboding , things went on much as usual in the Poyser household . 
Mrs. Poyser thought she noticed a surprising improvement in Hetty . 
Adam himself watched her at first with trembling anxiety , which gave way to surprise and delicious hope . 
Five days after delivering Arthur's letter , he had ventured to go to the Hall Farm again not without dread lest the sight of him might be painful to her . 
Poor thing ! he said to himself , that's allays likely . 
It's because she's had her first heartache . 
But she's got a spirit to bear up under it . 
But in so complex a thing as human nature , we must consider , it is hard to find rules without exceptions . 
But even to this rule an exception will occur now and then in the lapse of centuries , and my friend Adam was one . 
, and for this reason , the noblest nature is often the most blinded to the character of the one woman's soul that the beauty clothes . 
He only knew that the sight and memory of her moved him deeply , touching the spring of all love and tenderness , all faith and courage within him . 
How could he imagine narrowness , selfishness , hardness in her ? He created the mind he believed in out of his own , which was large , unselfish , tender . 
The hopes he felt about Hetty softened a little his feeling towards Arthur . 
As the new promise of happiness rose for Adam , his indignation and jealousy began to die out . 
What then ? Adam's enthusiasm lay in these things and our love is inwrought in our enthusiasm as electricity is inwrought in the air , exalting its power by a subtle presence . 
But he told himself that he would not be hasty he would not try Hetty's feeling for him until it had had time to grow strong and firm . 
However , tomorrow , after church , he would go to the Hall Farm and tell them the news . 
Mr. Poyser , he knew , would like it better than a five pound note , and he should see if Hetty's eyes brightened at it . 
The months would be short with all he had to fill his mind , and this foolish eagerness which had come over him of late must not hurry him into any premature words . 
Chapter XXXIV The Betrothal IT was a dry Sunday , and really a pleasant day for the d of November . 
But Tommy must have the start up to the next stile , because he's the smallest . 
Adam had never behaved so much like a determined lover before . 
Hetty looked up at him smilingly and put her round arm through his in a moment . 
It was nothing to her , putting her arm through Adam's , but she knew he cared a great deal about having her arm through his , and she wished him to care . 
Her heart beat no faster , and she looked at the half bare hedgerows and the ploughed field with the same sense of oppressive dulness as before . 
But Adam scarcely felt that he was walking . 
He thought Hetty must know that he was pressing her arm a little a very little . 
Words rushed to his lips that he dared not utter that he had made up his mind not to utter yet and so he was silent for the length of that field . 
The agitations of jealousy had given a new restlessness to his passion had made fear and uncertainty too hard almost to bear . 
But though he might not speak to Hetty of his love , he would tell her about his new prospects and see if she would be pleased . 
What's that ? Hetty said indifferently . 
Why , Mr. Burge has offered me a share in his business , and I'm going to take it . 
There was a change in Hetty's face , certainly not produced by any agreeable impression from this news . 
With that thought , and before she had time to remember any reasons why it could not be true , came a new sense of forsakenness and disappointment . 
The one thing the one person her mind had rested on in its dull weariness , had slipped away from her , and peevish misery filled her eyes with tears . 
Adam could hardly believe in the happiness of that moment . 
His right hand held her left , and he pressed her arm close against his heart as he leaned down towards her . 
She wanted to be caressed she wanted to feel as if Arthur were with her again . 
Adam cared for no words after that , and they hardly spoke through the rest of the walk . 
He only said , I may tell your uncle and aunt , mayn't I , Hetty ? and she said , Yes . 
I hope you have no objections against me for her husband , said Adam I'm a poor man as yet , but she shall want nothing as I can work for . 
Objections ? said Mr. Poyser , while the grandfather leaned forward and brought out his long Nay , nay . 
You'n got enough to begin on , and we can do a deal tow'rt the bit o' furniture you'll want . 
At first she only nodded emphatically , but she was presently unable to resist the temptation to be more explicit . 
Come , my wench , said Mr. Poyser , when Hetty came down , come and kiss us , and let us wish you luck . 
Hetty went very quietly and kissed the big good natured man . 
There ! he said , patting her on the back , go and kiss your aunt and your grandfather . 
Hetty turned away , smiling , towards her empty chair . 
Come , Adam , then , take one , persisted Mr. Poyser , else y' arena half a man . 
Adam got up , blushing like a small maiden great strong fellow as he was and , putting his arm round Hetty stooped down and gently kissed her lips . 
Even Hetty felt something like contentment in the midst of all this love . 
There was a great deal of discussion before Adam went away , about the possibility of his finding a house that would do for him to settle in . 
No house was empty except the one next to Will Maskery's in the village , and that was too small for Adam now . 
Well , well , said Mr. Poyser at last , we needna fix everything to night . 
We must take time to consider . 
You canna think o' getting married afore Easter . 
I'm not for long courtships , but there must be a bit o' time to make things comfortable . 
Aye , to be sure , said Mrs. Poyser , in a hoarse whisper Christian folks can't be married like cuckoos , I reckon . 
I'm a bit daunted , though , said Mr. Poyser , when I think as we may have notice to quit , and belike be forced to take a farm twenty mile off . 
An' you'll happen ha' double rates to pay , he added , looking up at his son . 
Well , thee mustna fret beforehand , father , said Martin the younger . 
Happen the captain 'ull come home and make our peace wi' th' old squire . 
I build upo' that , for I know the captain 'll see folks righted if he can . 
Two new rooms had been run up to the old house , for his mother and Seth were to live with them after all . 
To his great delight , Hetty said , Yes I'd as soon she lived with us as not . 
Hetty's mind was oppressed at that moment with a worse difficulty than poor Lisbeth's ways she could not care about them . 
So Adam was consoled for the disappointment he had felt when Seth had come back from his visit to Snowfield and said it was no use Dinah's heart wasna turned towards marrying . 
An' then we needna part the platters an' things , as ha' stood on the shelf together sin' afore thee wast born . 
There was only one cloud that now and then came across Adam's sunshine Hetty seemed unhappy sometimes . 
This desirable event of Mrs. Poyser's coming downstairs happened in the early part of February , when some mild weather thawed the last patch of snow on the Binton Hills . 
It was about ten o'clock when Hetty set off , and the slight hoar frost that had whitened the hedges in the early morning had disappeared as the sun mounted the cloudless sky . 
Bright February days have a stronger charm of hope about them than any other days in the year . 
The birds seem to feel just the same their notes are as clear as the clear air . 
No wonder man's religion has much sorrow in it no wonder he needs a suffering God . 
She hardly knows that the sun is shining and for weeks , now , when she has hoped at all , it has been for something at which she herself trembles and shudders . 
Her great dark eyes wander blankly over the fields like the eyes of one who is desolate , homeless , unloved , not the promised bride of a brave tender man . 
But there are no tears in them her tears were all wept away in the weary night , before she went to sleep . 
She chooses this and begins to walk a little faster , as if she had suddenly thought of an object towards which it was worth while to hasten . 
Soon she is in the Scantlands , where the grassy land slopes gradually downwards , and she leaves the level ground to follow the slope . 
Farther on there is a clump of trees on the low ground , and she is making her way towards it . 
She sits down on the grassy bank , against the stooping stem of the great oak that hangs over the dark pool . 
She has thought of this pool often in the nights of the month that has just gone by , and now at last she is come to see it . 
No , she has not courage to jump into that cold watery bed , and if she had , they might find her they might find out why she had drowned herself . 
There is but one thing left to her she must go away , go where they can't find her . 
Whenever the thought of writing to Arthur had occurred to her , she had rejected it . 
He could do nothing for her that would shelter her from discovery and scorn among the relatives and neighbours who once more made all her world , now her airy dream had vanished . 
Her imagination no longer saw happiness with Arthur , for he could do nothing that would satisfy or soothe her pride . 
No , something else would happen something must happen to set her free from this dread . 
But now necessity was pressing hard upon her now the time of her marriage was close at hand she could no longer rest in this blind trust . 
Hetty had not liked the thought of going to Snowfield , and felt no longing to see Dinah , so she only said , It's so far off , Uncle . 
But now she thought this proposed visit would serve as a pretext for going away . 
She would tell her aunt when she got home again that she should like the change of going to Snowfield for a week or ten days . 
And then , when she got to Stoniton , where nobody knew her , she would ask for the coach that would take her on the way to Windsor . 
Arthur was at Windsor , and she would go to him . 
She must be careful not to raise any suspicion that she was going to run away . 
Mrs. Poyser was quite agreeably surprised that Hetty wished to go and see Dinah and try to bring her back to stay over the wedding . 
He was looking at her fondly , and his strong hand beld hers in its grasp . 
God bless her for loving me , said Adam , as he went on his way to work again , with Gyp at his heels . 
But Hetty's tears were not for Adam not for the anguish that would come upon him when he found she was gone from him for ever . 
Yet Arthur was at Windsor he would surely not be angry with her . 
If he did not mind about her as he used to do , he had promised to be good to her . 
Why , the sweetheart as you've left behind , or else him as you're goin' arter which is it ? Hetty felt her face flushing and then turning pale . 
She thought this coachman must know something about her . 
She was too frightened to speak . 
Such a pretty lass as you can get a sweetheart any day . 
She was too entirely ignorant of traveling to imagine any of its details , and with all her store of money her three guineas in her pocket , she thought herself amply provided . 
Here she asked the landlord if he could tell her what places she must go to , to get to Windsor . 
Well , I can't rightly say . 
Windsor must be pretty nigh London , for it's where the king lives , was the answer . 
Anyhow , you'd best go t' Ashby next that's south'ard . 
But there's as many places from here to London as there's houses in Stoniton , by what I can make out . 
I've never been no traveller myself . 
You'd best set off and walk , and trust to summat overtaking you . 
Every word sank like lead on Hetty's spirits she saw the journey stretch bit by bit before her now . 
Even to get to Ashby seemed a hard thing it might take the day , for what she knew , and that was nothing to the rest of the journey . 
But it must be done she must get to Arthur . 
She thought of all she had left behind with yearning regret for her own sake . 
Her own misery filled her heart there was no room in it for other people's sorrow . 
And yet , before the cruel letter , Arthur had been so tender and loving . 
The memory of that had still a charm for her , though it was no more than a soothing draught that just made pain bearable . 
He would not marry her and make her a lady and apart from that she could think of nothing he could give towards which she looked with longing and ambition . 
As she was looking at the milestone she felt some drops falling on her face it was beginning to rain . 
She waited for it , thinking that if the waggoner were not a very sour looking man , she would ask him to take her up . 
As the waggon approached her , the driver had fallen behind , but there was something in the front of the big vehicle which encouraged her . 
At any previous moment in her life she would not have noticed it , but now , the new susceptibility that suffering had awakened in her caused this object to impress her strongly . 
Could you take me up in your waggon , if you're going towards Ashby ? said Hetty . 
I'll pay you for it . 
Where do you coom from ? And what do you want at Ashby ? I come from Stoniton . 
I'm going a long way to Windsor . 
What ! Arter some service , or what ? Going to my brother he's a soldier there . 
Well , I'm going no furder nor Leicester and fur enough too but I'll take you , if you dooant mind being a bit long on the road . 
Th' hosses wooant feel YOUR weight no more nor they feel the little doog there , as I puck up on the road a fortni't agoo . 
He war lost , I b'lieve , an's been all of a tremble iver sin' . 
Come , gi' us your basket an' come behind and let me put y' in . 
Late at night they reached Leicester , and so this second day of Hetty's journey was past . 
It was not till the fifth day that she got to Stony Stratford . 
That seems but a slight journey as you look at the map , or remember your own pleasant travels to and from the meadowy banks of the Avon . 
She would need nothing at Windsor but to find Arthur . 
And that lovely tearful face of Hetty's would have found out the sensitive fibre in most men . 
Come , young woman , come in , he said , and have adrop o' something you're pretty well knocked up , I can see that . 
He took her into the bar and said to his wife , Here , missis , take this young woman into the parlour she's a little overcome for Hetty's tears were falling fast . 
They were merely hysterical tears she thought she had no reason for weeping now , and was vexed that she was too weak and tired to help it . 
She was at Windsor at last , not far from Arthur . 
The landlady sat opposite to her as she ate , and looked at her earnestly . 
No wonder Hetty had thrown off her bonnet , and her curls had fallen down . 
Why , you're not very fit for travelling , she said , glancing while she spoke at Hetty's ringless hand . 
Have you come far ? Yes , said Hetty , roused by this question to exert more self command , and feeling the better for the food she had taken . 
I've come a good long way , and it's very tiring . 
While she was speaking , the landlord had come in and had begun to look at her as earnestly as his wife had done . 
He took up the piece of paper which Hetty handed across the table , and read the address . 
Why , what do you want at this house ? he said . 
It is in the nature of innkeepers and all men who have no pressing business of their own to ask as many questions as possible before giving any information . 
I want to see a gentleman as is there , said Hetty . 
But there's no gentleman there , returned the landlord . 
It's shut up been shut up this fortnight . 
What gentleman is it you want ? Perhaps I can let you know where to find him . 
It's Captain Donnithorne , said Hetty tremulously , her heart beginning to beat painfully at this disappointment of her hope that she should find Arthur at once . 
Captain Donnithorne ? Stop a bit , said the landlard , slowly . 
The Loamshire Militia's gone to Ireland it's been gone this fortnight . 
Look there ! She's fainting , said the landlady , hastening to support Hetty , who had lost her miserable consciousness and looked like a beautiful corpse . 
They carried her to the sofa and loosened her dress . 
Here's a bad business , I suspect , said the landlord , as he brought in some water . 
Ah , it's plain enough what sort of business it is , said the wife . 
She's not a common flaunting dratchell , I can see that . 
She looks like a respectable country girl , and she comes from a good way off , to judge by her tongue . 
She talks something like that ostler we had that come from the north . 
He was as honest a fellow as we ever had about the house they're all honest folks in the north . 
I never saw a prettier young woman in my life , said the husband . 
She's like a pictur in a shop winder . 
It goes to one's 'eart to look at her . 
But she's coming to again . 
Fetch a drop more water . 
But which way could she turn ? It was impossible for her to enter into any service , even if she could obtain it . 
There was nothing but immediate beggary before her . 
She thought of a young woman who had been found against the church wall at Hayslope one Sunday , nearly dead with cold and hunger a tiny infant in her arms . 
The woman was rescued and taken to the parish . 
And the dread of bodily hardship mingled with the dread of shame for Hetty had the luxurious nature of a round soft coated pet animal . 
Yet she put her hands up to her ears it was because there were some thin gold rings in them , which were also worth a little money . 
Yes , she could surely get some money for her ornaments those Arthur had given her must have cost a great deal of money . 
The landlord and landlady had been good to her perhaps they would help her to get the money for these things . 
But this money would not keep her long . 
But she shrank from that idea again , as she might have shrunk from scorching metal . 
They should never know what had happened to her . 
She must think of some reason to tell them why she had asked for him . 
With this thought she began to put the things back into her pocket , meaning to get up and dress before the landlady came to her . 
No , there was nothing but common needles and pins , and dried tulip petals between the paper leaves where she had written down her little money accounts . 
But on one of these leaves there was a name , which , often as she had seen it before , now flashed on Hetty's mind like a newly discovered message . 
The name was Dinah Morris , Snowfield . 
Hetty did not read the text now she was only arrested by the name . 
Suppose she were to go to Dinah , and ask her to help her ? Dinah did not think about things as other people did . 
She was a mystery to Hetty , but Hetty knew she was always kind . 
She couldn't imagine Dinah's face turning away from her in dark reproof or scorn , Dinah's voice willingly speaking ill of her , or rejoicing in her misery as a punishment . 
Dinah did not seem to belong to that world of Hetty's , whose glance she dreaded like scorching fire . 
But even to her Hetty shrank from beseeching and confession . 
She could not prevail on herself to say , I will go to Dinah she only thought of that as a possible alternative , if she had not courage for death . 
The good landlady was amazed when she saw Hetty come downstairs soon after herself , neatly dressed , and looking resolutely self possessed . 
Hetty told her she was quite well this morning . 
And you wouldn't like to part with 'em ? he added , looking at her inquiringly . 
Oh , I don't mind , said Hetty , hastily , so as I can get money to go back . 
The blood rushed to Hetty's face with anger . 
I belong to respectable folks , she said I'm not a thief . 
No , that you aren't , I'll be bound , said the landlady and you'd no call to say that , looking indignantly at her husband . 
The things were gev to her that's plain enough to be seen . 
Well , said the wife , suppose you were to advance some money on the things yourself , and then if she liked to redeem 'em when she got home , she could . 
But if we heard nothing from her after two months , we might do as we liked with 'em . 
The landlord took up the ornaments and pushed out his lips in a meditative manner . 
How much money do you want to get home with , young woman ? said the well wisher , at length . 
Three guineas , answered Hetty , fixing on the sum she set out with , for want of any other standard , and afraid of asking too much . 
The Green Man isn't going to run away . 
Yes , said Hetty indifferently . 
The husband and wife were equally content with this arrangement . 
The husband thought , if the ornaments were not redeemed , he could make a good thing of it by taking them to London and selling them . 
The wife thought she would coax the good man into letting her keep them . 
And they were accommodating Hetty , poor thing a pretty , respectable looking young woman , apparently in a sad case . 
They declined to take anything for her food and bed she was quite welcome . 
There is a strength of self possession which is the sign that the last hope has departed . 
Despair no more leans on others than perfect contentment , and in despair pride ceases to be counteracted by the sense of dependence . 
No she would not confess even to Dinah . 
She would wander out of sight , and drown herself where her body would never be found , and no one should know what had become of her . 
Perhaps it was because she had fixed her mind on the grassy Warwickshire fields , with the bushy tree studded hedgerows that made a hiding place even in this leafless season . 
Religious doctrines had taken no hold on Hetty's mind . 
You would misunderstand her thoughts during these wretched days , if you imagined that they were influenced either by religious fears or religious hopes . 
Yet she took care of her money still she carried her basket death seemed still a long way off , and life was so strong in her . 
She craved food and rest she hastened towards them at the very moment she was picturing to herself the bank from which she would leap towards death . 
A hard and even fierce look had come in the eyes , though their lashes were as long as ever , and they had all their dark brightness . 
And the cheek was never dimpled with smiles now . 
At last she was among the fields she had been dreaming of , on a long narrow pathway leading towards a wood . 
If there should be a pool in that wood ! It would be better hidden than one in the fields . 
No , it was not a wood , only a wild brake , where there had once been gravel pits , leaving mounds and hollows studded with brushwood and small trees . 
She roamed up and down , thinking there was perhaps a pool in every hollow before she came to it , till her limbs were weary , and she sat down to rest . 
The afternoon was far advanced , and the leaden sky was darkening , as if the sun were setting behind it . 
She had quite lost her way in the fields , and might as well go in one direction as another , for aught she knew . 
Hetty's heart gave a great heat as she thought there must be a pool there . 
She walked towards it heavily over the tufted grass , with pale lips and a sense of trembling . 
It was as if the thing were come in spite of herself , instead of being the object of her search . 
There it was , black under the darkening sky no motion , no sound near . 
She set down her basket , and then sank down herself on the grass , trembling . 
But then there was her basket she must hide that too . 
She must throw it into the water make it heavy with stones first , and then throw it in . 
She got up to look about for stones , and soon brought five or six , which she laid down beside her basket , and then sat down again . 
There was no need to hurry there was all the night to drown herself in . 
She sat leaning her elbow on the basket . 
She was weary , hungry . 
There were some buns in her basket three , which she had supplied herself with at the place where she ate her dinner . 
She took them out now and ate them eagerly , and then sat still again , looking at the pool . 
The soothed sensation that came over her from the satisfaction of her hunger , and this fixed dreamy attitude , brought on drowsiness , and presently her head sank down on her knees . 
When she awoke it was deep night , and she felt chill . 
She was frightened at this darkness frightened at the long night before her . 
If she could but throw herself into the water ! No , not yet . 
She began to walk about that she might get warm again , as if she would have more resolution then . 
She set her teeth when she thought of Arthur . 
She cursed him , without knowing what her cursing would do . 
She wished he too might know desolation , and cold , and a life of shame that he dared not end by death . 
The horror of this cold , and darkness , and solitude out of all human reach became greater every long minute . 
It was almost as if she were dead already , and knew that she was dead , and longed to get back to life again . 
But no she was alive still she had not taken the dreadful leap . 
She no longer felt as if the darkness hedged her in . 
If she could get into that hovel , she would be warmer . 
She could pass the night there , for that was what Alick did at Hayslope in lambing time . 
The thought of this hovel brought the energy of a new hope . 
She took up her basket and walked across the field , but it was some time before she got in the right direction for the stile . 
The exercise and the occupation of finding the stile were a stimulus to her , however , and lightened the horror of the darkness and solitude . 
Right on along the path , and she would get to it . 
She reached the opposite gate , and felt her way along its rails and the rails of the sheep fold , till her hand encountered the pricking of the gorsy wall . 
Delicious sensation ! She had found the shelter . 
She groped her way , touching the prickly gorse , to the door , and pushed it open . 
It was an ill smelling close place , but warm , and there was straw on the ground . 
Hetty sank down on the straw with a sense of escape . 
The very consciousness of her own limbs was a delight to her she turned up her sleeves , and kissed her arms with the passionate love of life . 
Alas ! That relief seems to end the moment it has begun . 
She trembled under her aunt's glance , and opened her eyes . 
There was no candle , but there was light in the hovel the light of early morning through the open door . 
And there was a face looking down on her but it was an unknown face , belonging to an elderly man in a smock frock . 
Why , what do you do here , young woman ? the man said roughly . 
Hetty trembled still worse under this real fear and shame than she had done in her momentary dream under her aunt's glance . 
She felt that she was like a beggar already found sleeping in that place . 
But in spite of her trembling , she was so eager to account to the man for her presence here , that she found words at once . 
I lost my way , she said . 
I'm travelling north'ard , and I got away from the road into the fields , and was overtaken by the dark . 
The man looked at her with a slow bovine gaze , without giving her any answer , for some seconds . 
But what do you do gettin' out o' the highroad ? he added , with a tone of gruff reproof . 
Y'ull be gettin' into mischief , if you dooant mind . 
Yes , said Hetty , I won't do it again . 
I'll keep in the road , if you'll be so good as show me how to get to it . 
Why dooant you keep where there's a finger poasses an' folks to ax the way on ? the man said , still more gruffly . 
Anybody 'ud think you was a wild woman , an' look at yer . 
Hetty was frightened at this gruff old man , and still more at this last suggestion that she looked like a wild woman . 
As she followed him out of the hovel she thought she would give him a sixpence for telling her the way , and then he would not suppose she was wild . 
You'd better take care on't , else you'll get it stool from yer , if you go trapesin' about the fields like a mad woman a thatway . 
The man left her without further speech , and Hetty held on her way . 
Another day had risen , and she must wander on . 
It was no use to think of drowning herself she could not do it , at least while she had money left to buy food and strength to journey on . 
The passionate joy in life she had felt in the night , after escaping from the brink of the black cold death in the pool , was gone now . 
She took out her money from her purse , and looked at it . 
She had still two and twenty shillings it would serve her for many days more , or it would help her to get on faster to Stonyshire , within reach of Dinah . 
The thought of Dinah urged itself more strongly now , since the experience of the night had driven her shuddering imagination away from the pool . 
If it had been only going to Dinah if nobody besides Dinah would ever know Hetty could have made up her mind to go to her . 
The soft voice , the pitying eyes , would have drawn her . 
But afterwards the other people must know , and she could no more rush on that shame than she could rush on death . 
She must wander on and on , and wait for a lower depth of despair to give her courage . 
Perhaps death would come to her , for she was getting less and less able to bear the day's weariness . 
It was quite time Hetty came home , and he would afford to lose his Monday for the sake of bringing her . 
His project was quite approved at the Farm when he went there on Saturday evening . 
As for Dinah , Mrs. Poyser had small hope of their bringing her , unless they could make her believe the folks at Hayslope were twice as miserable as the folks at Snowfield . 
Nay , nay , said Mr. Poyser , who certainly had the air of a man perfectly heart whole , it isna so bad as that . 
Thee't looking rarely now , and getting flesh every day . 
But I'd be glad for Dinah t' come , for she'd help thee wi' the little uns they took t' her wonderful . 
So at daybreak , on Sunday , Adam set off . 
It was the last morning in February , with a low grey sky , and a slight hoar frost on the green border of the road and on the black hedges . 
They heard the gurgling of the full brooklet hurrying down the hill , and the faint twittering of the early birds . 
For they walked in silence , though with a pleased sense of companionship . 
Good bye , lad , said Adam , laying his hand on Seth's shoulder and looking at him affectionately as they were about to part . 
I wish thee wast going all the way wi' me , and as happy as I am . 
I'm content , Addy , I'm content , said Seth cheerfully . 
I'll be an old bachelor , belike , and make a fuss wi' thy children . 
Visit , then , this soul of mine , Pierce the gloom of sin and grief Fill me , Radiancy Divine , Scatter all my unbelief . 
More and more thyself display , Shining to the perfect day . 
It seemed a very short walk , the ten miles to Oakbourne , that pretty town within sight of the blue hills , where he break fasted . 
A hungry land , said Adam to himself . 
Here Dinah lodged with an elderly couple and if she and Hetty happened to be out , Adam could learn where they were gone , or when they would be at home again . 
Dinah might be out on some preaching errand , and perhaps she would have left Hetty at home . 
He hurried his step along the narrow causeway , and rapped at the door . 
It was opened by a very clean old woman , with a slow palsied shake of the head . 
Is Dinah Morris at home ? said Adam . 
no , said the old woman , looking up at this tall stranger with a wonder that made her slower of speech than usual . 
Will you please to come in ? she added , retiring from the door , as if recollecting herself . 
Why , ye're brother to the young man as come afore , arena ye ? Yes , said Adam , entering . 
He told me to give his respects to you and your good master . 
Aye , the same t' him . 
He was a gracious young man . 
An' ye feature him , on'y ye're darker . 
Sit ye down i' th' arm chair . 
My man isna come home from meeting . 
So you're come to see Dinah Morris ? said the old woman , standing opposite to him . 
An' you didn' know she was away from home , then ? No , said Adam , but I thought it likely she might be away , seeing as it's Sunday . 
But the other young woman is she at home , or gone along with Dinah ? The old woman looked at Adam with a bewildered air . 
Gone along wi' her ? she said . 
Eh , Dinah's gone to Leeds , a big town ye may ha' heared on , where there's a many o' the Lord's people . 
She's been gone sin' Friday was a fortnight they sent her the money for her journey . 
You may see her room here , she went on , opening a door and not noticing the effect of her words on Adam . 
He had had an irrational hope that Hetty might be there . 
He could not speak in the first moment after seeing that the room was empty an undefined fear had seized him something had happened to Hetty on the journey . 
Still the old woman was so slow of speech and apprehension , that Hetty might be at Snowfield after all . 
It's a pity ye didna know , she said . 
Nay Friday was a fortnight it was the day as Dinah went away there come nobody . 
There's ne'er been nobody asking for her till you come , for the folks about know as she's gone . 
Eh dear , eh dear , is there summat the matter ? The old woman had seen the ghastly look of fear in Adam's face . 
But he was not stunned or confounded he was thinking eagerly where he could inquire about Hetty . 
Yes a young woman started from our country to see Dinah , Friday was a fortnight . 
I came to fetch her back . 
I'm afraid something has happened to her . 
He hastened out of the cottage , and the old woman followed him to the gate , watching him sadly with her shaking head as he almost ran towards the town . 
He was going to inquire at the place where the Oakbourne coach stopped . 
No ! No young woman like Hetty had been seen there . 
Had any accident happened to the coach a fortnight ago ? No. And there was no coach to take him back to Oakbourne that day . 
Well , he would walk he couldn't stay here , in wretched inaction . 
It was not five o'clock there was plenty of time for Adam to take a meal and yet to get to Oakbourne before ten o'clock . 
The innkeeper declared that he really wanted to go to Oakbourne , and might as well go to night he should have all Monday before him then . 
Adam , after making an ineffectual attempt to eat , put the food in his pocket , and , drinking a draught of ale , declared himself ready to set off . 
During that long , long journey in the taxed cart , there was time for all the conjectures of importunate fear and struggling hope . 
Hetty had , by some strange chance , got into a wrong vehicle from Oakbourne she had been taken ill , and did not want to frighten them by letting them know . 
But this frail fence of vague improbabilities was soon hurled down by a rush of distinct agonizing fears . 
And she was gone to him . 
Every sad look of Hetty's , since she had been engaged to Adam , returned upon him now with all the exaggeration of painful retrospect . 
He had been foolishly sanguine and confident . 
He couldn't bear to blame her she never meant to cause him this dreadful pain . 
The blame lay with that man who had selfishly played with her heart had perhaps even deliberately lured her away . 
He could probably be seen at Stoniton , through inquiry at the inn where the coach put up . 
So the anxious heart stricken Adam must of necessity wait and try to rest till morning nay , till eleven o'clock , when the coach started . 
At Stoniton another delay occurred , for the old coachman who had driven Hetty would not be in the town again till night . 
But he declared , as the people had done at the inn , that he had lost sight of Hetty directly she got down . 
and then in walking out to the first toll gates on the different lines of road , in the forlorn hope of finding some recollection of her there . 
No , she was not to be traced any farther and the next hard task for Adam was to go home and carry the wretched tidings to the Hall Farm . 
Several times the thought occurred to him that he would consult Mr. Irwine , but that would be useless unless he told him all , and so betrayed the secret about Arthur . 
Not more than four hours , however , for before five o'clock he set out on his way home in the faint morning twilight . 
He walked gently along the yard , and turned the key gently in the door but , as he expected , Gyp , who lay in the workshop , gave a sharp bark . 
Adam was too heart sick to take notice of Gyp's fondling . 
Right before him was an unfinished chest of drawers , which he had been making in spare moments for Hetty's use , when his home should be hers . 
Seth had not heard Adam's entrance , but he had been roused by Gyp's bark , and Adam heard him moving about in the room above , dressing himself . 
But Seth felt in an instant what the marks meant not drunkenness , but some great calamity . 
Adam looked up at him without speaking , and Seth moved forward towards the bench , himself trembling so that speech did not come readily . 
God have mercy on us , Addy , he said , in a low voice , sitting down on the bench beside Adam , what is it ? Adam was unable to speak . 
The strong man , accustomed to suppress the signs of sorrow , had felt his heart swell like a child's at this first approach of sympathy . 
He fell on Seth's neck and sobbed . 
Seth was prepared for the worst now , for , even in his recollections of their boyhood , Adam had never sobbed before . 
Is it death , Adam ? Is she dead ? he asked , in a low tone , when Adam raised his head and was recovering himself . 
No , lad but she's gone gone away from us . 
She's never been to Snowfield . 
Dinah's been gone to Leeds ever since last Friday was a fortnight , the very day Hetty set out . 
I can't find out where she went after she got to Stoniton . 
Seth was silent from utter astonishment he knew nothing that could suggest to him a reason for Hetty's going away . 
Hast any notion what she's done it for ? he said , at last . 
She can't ha' loved me . 
She didn't like our marriage when it came nigh that must be it , said Adam . 
He had determined to mention no further reason . 
I hear Mother stirring , said Seth . 
Must we tell her ? No , not yet , said Adam , rising from the bench and pushing the hair from his face , as if he wanted to rouse himself . 
I can't have her told yet and I must set out on another journey directly , after I've been to the village and th' Hall Farm . 
I can't tell thee where I'm going , and thee must say to her I'm gone on business as nobody is to know anything about . 
I'll go and wash myself now . 
Seth was pale and trembling he felt there was some terrible secret under all this . 
Brother , he said , faintly he never called Adam Brother except in solemn moments I don't believe you'll do anything as you can't ask God's blessing on . 
Nay , lad , said Adam , don't be afraid . 
I'm for doing nought but what's a man's duty . 
He waited until the clock struck nine before he left the work yard at the village , and set off , through the fields , towards the Farm . 
His surprise was great when he caught sight of Adam , but he was not a man given to presentiments of evil . 
Why , said Martin , looking with sharper attention at Adam , ye look bad . 
Is there anything happened ? Yes , said Adam , heavily . 
I didna find Hetty at Snowfield . 
Mr. Poyser's good natured face showed signs of troubled astonishment . 
Not find her ? What's happened to her ? he said , his thoughts flying at once to bodily accident . 
That I can't tell , whether anything's happened to her . 
She never went to Snowfield she took the coach to Stoniton , but I can't learn nothing of her after she got down from the Stoniton coach . 
Why , you donna mean she's run away ? said Martin , standing still , so puzzled and bewildered that the fact did not yet make itself felt as a trouble by him . 
She must ha' done , said Adam . 
She didn't like our marriage when it came to the point that must be it . 
Martin was silent for a minute or two , looking on the ground and rooting up the grass with his spud , without knowing what he was doing . 
His usual slowness was always trebled when the subject of speech was painful . 
At last he looked up , right in Adam's face , saying , Then she didna deserve t' ha' ye , my lad . 
An' I feel i' fault myself , for she was my niece , and I was allays hot for her marr'ing ye . 
There's no amends I can make ye , lad the more's the pity it's a sad cut up for ye , I doubt . 
Adam had the strongest motives for encouraging this supposition in Mr. Poyser , and he even tried to believe that it might possibly be true . 
He had no warrant for the certainty that she was gone to Arthur . 
It was better it should be so , he said , as quietly as he could , if she felt she couldn't like me for a husband . 
Better run away before than repent after . 
I hope you won't look harshly on her if she comes back , as she may do if she finds it hard to get on away from home . 
I canna look on her as I've done before , said Martin decisively . 
She's acted bad by you , and by all of us . 
But I'll not turn my back on her she's but a young un , and it's the first harm I've knowed on her . 
It'll be a hard job for me to tell her aunt . 
Why didna Dinah come back wi' ye ? She'd ha' helped to pacify her aunt a bit . 
She's been gone to Leeds this fortnight , and I couldn't learn from th' old woman any direction where she is at Leeds , else I should ha' brought it you . 
She'd a deal better be staying wi' her own kin , said Mr. Poyser , indignantly , than going preaching among strange folks a that'n . 
I must leave you now , Mr. Poyser , said Adam , for I've a deal to see to . 
Aye , you'd best be after your business , and I must tell the missis when I go home . 
But , said Adam , I beg particular , you'll keep what's happened quiet for a week or two . 
I've not told my mother yet , and there's no knowing how things may turn out . 
Aye , aye least said , soonest mended . 
We'n no need to say why the match is broke off , an' we may hear of her after a bit . 
Shake hands wi' me , lad I wish I could make thee amends . 
There was something in Martin Poyser's throat at that moment which caused him to bring out those scanty words in rather a broken fashion . 
Yet Adam knew what they meant all the better , and the two honest men grasped each other's hard hands in mutual understanding . 
There was nothing now to hinder Adam from setting off . 
If the Poysers learned that he was gone away again , Adam knew they would infer that he was gone in search of Hetty . 
He was about to start on a long journey a difficult one by sea and no soul would know where he was gone . 
Towards Arthur , even though he might have incurred no new guilt , Adam felt that he was not bound to keep silence when Hetty's interest called on him to speak . 
I can't stand alone in this way any longer . 
The fear and haste together produced a state of strong excitement before he reached the rectory gate , and outside it he saw the deep marks of a recent hoof on the gravel . 
Mr. Irwine was at home , then but Adam could hardly find breath and calmness to tell Carroll that he wanted to speak to the rector . 
The double suffering of certain and uncertain sorrow had begun to shake the strong man . 
The butler looked at him wonderingly , as he threw himself on a bench in the passage and stared absently at the clock on the opposite wall . 
In our times of bitter suffering there are almost always these pauses , when our consciousness is benumbed to everything but some trivial perception or sensation . 
It is as if semi idiocy came to give us rest from the memory and the dread which refuse to leave us in our sleep . 
Carroll , coming back , recalled Adam to the sense of his burden . 
He was to go into the study immediately . 
And master looks unaccountable as if he was frightened . 
Adam took no notice of the words he could not care about other people's business . 
You want to speak to me , Adam , he said , in that low constrainedly quiet tone which a man uses when he is determined to suppress agitation . 
But when Adam had made up his mind to a measure , he was not the man to renounce it for any but imperative reasons . 
I come to you , sir , he said , as the gentleman I look up to most of anybody . 
I've something very painful to tell you something as it'll pain you to hear as well as me to tell . 
But if I speak o' the wrong other people have done , you'll see I didn't speak till I'd good reason . 
Mr. Irwine nodded slowly , and Adam went on rather tremulously , You was t' ha' married me and Hetty Sorrel , you know , sir , o' the fifteenth o' this month . 
I thought she loved me , and I was th' happiest man i' the parish . 
But a dreadful blow's come upon me . 
Mr. Irwine started up from his chair , as if involuntarily , but then , determined to control himself , walked to the window and looked out . 
She's gone away , sir , and we don't know where . 
But now I'm going a long journey to look for her , and I can't trust t' anybody but you where I'm going . 
Mr. Irwine came back from the window and sat down . 
Have you no idea of the reason why she went away ? he said . 
It's plain enough she didn't want to marry me , sir , said Adam . 
She didn't like it when it came so near . 
But that isn't all , I doubt . 
There's something else I must tell you , sir . 
There's somebody else concerned besides me . 
A gleam of something it was almost like relief or joy came across the eager anxiety of Mr. Irwine's face at that moment . 
Adam was looking on the ground , and paused a little the next words were hard to speak . 
But when he went on , he lifted up his head and looked straight at Mr. Irwine . 
He would do the thing he had resolved to do , without flinching . 
The grasp on his arm gradually relaxed , and Mr. Irwine threw himself back in his chair , saying , Go on I must know it . 
I found it out only two days before he went away found him a kissing her as they were parting in the Grove . 
There'd been nothing said between me and Hetty then , though I'd loved her for a long while , and she knew it . 
And I gave her the letter , and she seemed to bear it all after a while better than I'd expected . 
and she behaved kinder and kinder to me . 
I daresay she didn't know her own feelings then , poor thing , and they came back upon her when it was too late . 
I don't want to blame her . 
I can't think as she meant to deceive me . 
But I was encouraged to think she loved me , and you know the rest , sir . 
During Adam's narrative , Mr. Irwine had had time to recover his self mastery in spite of the painful thoughts that crowded upon him . 
It was a bitter remembrance to him now that morning when Arthur breakfasted with him and seemed as if he were on the verge of a confession . 
It was plain enough now what he had wanted to confess . 
And if their words had taken another turn . 
if he himself had been less fastidious about intruding on another man's secrets . 
it was cruel to think how thin a film had shut out rescue from all this guilt and misery . 
He saw the whole history now by that terrible illumination which the present sheds back upon the past . 
You can bear sorrow manfully , as well as act manfully . 
God requires both tasks at our hands . 
And there is a heavier sorrow coming upon you than any you have yet known . 
But you are not guilty you have not the worst of all sorrows . 
God help him who has ! The two pale faces looked at each other in Adam's there was trembling suspense , in Mr. Irwine's hesitating , shrinking pity . 
I have had news of Hetty this morning . 
She is not gone to him . 
She is in Stonyshire at Stoniton . 
Adam started up from his chair , as if he thought he could have leaped to her that moment . 
But Mr. Irwine laid hold of his arm again and said , persuasively , Wait , Adam , wait . 
She is in a very unhappy position one which will make it worse for you to find her , my poor friend , than to have lost her for ever . 
Adam's lips moved tremulously , but no sound came . 
They moved again , and he whispered , Tell me . 
It was as if an insulting blow had brought back the spirit of resistance into Adam . 
The blood rushed to his face , and he said , loudly and sharply , For what ? For a great crime the murder of her child . 
She never had a child . 
WHO says it ? God grant she may be innocent , Adam . 
We can still hope she is . 
But who says she is guilty ? said Adam violently . 
Here is a letter from the magistrate before whom she was taken , and the constable who arrested her is in the dining room . 
She will not confess her name or where she comes from but I fear , I fear , there can be no doubt it is Hetty . 
The description of her person corresponds , only that she is said to look very pale and ill . 
But what proof have they got against her , if it IS Hetty ? said Adam , still violently , with an effort that seemed to shake his whole frame . 
It couldn't ha' been , and none of us know it . 
Terrible proof that she was under the temptation to commit the crime but we have room to hope that she did not really commit it . 
Try and read that letter , Adam . 
Adam took the letter between his shaking hands and tried to fix his eyes steadily on it . 
Mr. Irwine meanwhile went out to give some orders . 
When he came back , Adam's eyes were still on the first page he couldn't read he could not put the words together and make out what they meant . 
He threw it down at last and clenched his fist . 
It's HIS doing , he said if there's been any crime , it's at his door , not at hers . 
HE taught her to deceive HE deceived me first . 
Is HE to go free , while they lay all the punishment on her . 
so weak and young ? The image called up by these last words gave a new direction to poor Adam's maddened feelings . 
He was silent , looking at the corner of the room as if he saw something there . 
Then he burst out again , in a tone of appealing anguish , I can't bear it . 
O God , it's too hard to lay upon me it's too hard to think she's wicked . 
Mr. Irwine had sat down again in silence . 
Adam stood motionless , with his eyes vacantly fixed in this way for a minute or two in that short space he was living through all his love again . 
She can't ha' done it , he said , still without moving his eyes , as if he were only talking to himself it was fear made her hide it . 
I forgive her for deceiving me . 
I forgive thee , Hetty . 
it's gone hard wi' thee , my poor Hetty . 
but they'll never make me believe it . 
In the act of going towards the door , Adam paused automatically and looked about for his hat , quite unconscious where he was or who was present with him . 
The punishment will surely fall without your aid . 
Besides , he is no longer in Ireland . 
He must be on his way home or would be , long before you arrived , for his grandfather , I know , wrote for him to come at least ten days ago . 
I want you now to go with me to Stoniton . 
I have ordered a horse for you to ride with us , as soon as you can compose yourself . 
While Mr. Irwine was speaking , Adam recovered his consciousness of the actual scene . 
He rubbed his hair off his forehead and listened . 
In reality , Mr. Irwine proposed this journey to Stoniton for Adam's own sake . 
Movement , with some object before him , was the best means of counteracting the violence of suffering in these first hours . 
You will go with me to Stoniton , Adam ? he said again , after a moment's pause . 
We have to see if it is really Hetty who is there , you know . 
Yes , sir , said Adam , I'll do what you think right . 
But the folks at th' Hall Farm ? I wish them not to know till I return to tell them myself . 
I shall have ascertained things then which I am uncertain about now , and I shall return as soon as possible . 
Come now , the horses are ready . 
Chapter XL The Bitter Waters Spread MR . 
Well , Dauphin , Mrs. Irwine said , as her son entered her room , you're come at last . 
So the old gentleman's fidgetiness and low spirits , which made him send for Arthur in that sudden way , really meant something . 
I suppose Carroll has told you that Donnithorne was found dead in his bed this morning . 
You will believe my prognostications another time , though I daresay I shan't live to prognosticate anything but my own death . 
What have they done about Arthur ? said Mr. Irwine . 
Sent a messenger to await him at Liverpool ? Yes , Ralph was gone before the news was brought to us . 
Dear Arthur , I shall live now to see him master at the Chase , and making good times on the estate , like a generous hearted fellow as he is . 
He'll be as happy as a king now . 
Mr. Irwine could not help giving a slight groan he was worn with anxiety and exertion , and his mother's light words were almost intolerable . 
You've been worried by this law business that you've been to Stoniton about . 
What in the world is it , that you can't tell me ? You will know by and by , mother . 
It would not be right for me to tell you at present . 
Good night you'll sleep now you have no longer anything to listen for . 
Adam himself was not come back from Stoniton , for though he shrank from seeing Hetty , he could not bear to go to a distance from her again . 
It's no use , sir , he said to the rector , it's no use for me to go back . 
I can't go to work again while she's here , and I couldn't bear the sight o' the things and folks round home . 
I'll take a bit of a room here , where I can see the prison walls , and perhaps I shall get , in time , to bear seeing her . 
Her youth and other circumstances will be a plea for her . 
Ah , and it's right people should know how she was tempted into the wrong way , said Adam , with bitter earnestness . 
It's right they should know it was a fine gentleman made love to her , and turned her head wi' notions . 
You'll be doing her a hurt by sparing him , and I hold him the guiltiest before God , let her ha' done what she may . 
I say nothing now , only that his punishment is in other hands than ours . 
He made up his mind to withhold nothing from the Poysers , but to tell them the worst at once , for there was no time to rob the tidings of their suddenness . 
Hetty's trial must come on at the Lent assizes , and they were to be held at Stoniton the next week . 
It was scarcely to be hoped that Martin Poyser could escape the pain of being called as a witness , and it was better he should know everything as long beforehand as possible . 
Before ten o'clock on Thursday morning the home at the Hall Farm was a house of mourning for a misfortune felt to be worse than death . 
The sense of family dishonour was too keen even in the kind hearted Martin Poyser the younger to leave room for any compassion towards Hetty . 
We are often startled by the severity of mild people on exceptional occasions the reason is , that mild people are most liable to be under the yoke of traditional impressions . 
She's made our bread bitter to us for all our lives to come , an' we shall ne'er hold up our heads i' this parish nor i' any other . 
The parson talks o' folks pitying us it's poor amends pity 'ull make us . 
Pity ? said the grandfather , sharply . 
I ne'er wanted folks's pity i' MY life afore . 
an' I mun begin to be looked down on now , an' me turned seventy two last St . 
Thomas's , an' all th' underbearers and pall bearers as I'n picked for my funeral are i' this parish and the next to 't . 
It's o' no use now . 
I mun be ta'en to the grave by strangers . 
Don't fret so , father , said Mrs. Poyser , who had spoken very little , being almost overawed by her husband's unusual hardness and decision . 
You'll have your children wi' you an' there's the lads and the little un 'ull grow up in a new parish as well as i' th' old un . 
Ah , there's no staying i' this country for us now , said Mr. Poyser , and the hard tears trickled slowly down his round cheeks . 
An' me , as thought him such a good upright young man , as I should be glad when he come to be our landlord . 
I'll ne'er lift my hat to him again , nor sit i' the same church wi' him . 
a man as has brought shame on respectable folks . 
an' pretended to be such a friend t' everybody . 
An' you t' ha' to go into court , and own you're akin t' her , said the old man . 
It'll be their own wickedness , then , said Mrs. Poyser , with a sob in her voice . 
But there's One above 'ull take care o' the innicent child , else it's but little truth they tell us at church . 
It'll be harder nor ever to die an' leave the little uns , an' nobody to be a mother to 'em . 
We'd better ha' sent for Dinah , if we'd known where she is , said Mr. Poyser but Adam said she'd left no direction where she'd be at Leeds . 
Why , she'd be wi' that woman as was a friend t' her Aunt Judith , said Mrs. Poyser , comforted a little by this suggestion of her husbands . 
I've often heard Dinah talk of her , but I can't remember what name she called her by . 
But there's Seth Bede he's like enough to know , for she's a preaching woman as the Methodists think a deal on . 
I'll send to Seth , said Mr. Poyser . 
It's poor work writing letters when you want folks to come to you i' trouble , said Mrs. Poyser . 
Happen it'll be ever so long on the road , an' never reach her at last . 
I'd like her to come in an' take me by th' hand again , an' talk to me . 
Adam , my poor lad ! Thee wouldstna like me to leave thee , to go and fetch Dinah ? said Seth , as his mother sobbed and rocked herself to and fro . 
Fetch her ? said Lisbeth , looking up and pausing from her grief , like a crying child who hears some promise of consolation . 
Why , what place is't she's at , do they say ? It's a good way off , mother Leeds , a big town . 
But I could be back in three days , if thee couldst spare me . 
Nay , nay , I canna spare thee . 
Thee must go an' see thy brother , an' bring me word what he's a doin' . 
Mester Irwine said he'd come an' tell me , but I canna make out so well what it means when he tells me . 
Thee must go thysen , sin' Adam wonna let me go to him . 
Write a letter to Dinah canstna ? Thee't fond enough o' writin' when nobody wants thee . 
I'm not sure where she'd be i' that big town , said Seth . 
If I'd gone myself , I could ha' found out by asking the members o' the Society . 
But perhaps if I put Sarah Williamson , Methodist preacher , Leeds , o' th' outside , it might get to her for most like she'd be wi' Sarah Williamson . 
One of those neighbours who came to Martin Poyser and shook him by the hand without speaking for some minutes was Bartle Massey . 
He was shown into the study , where Mr. Irwine soon joined him . 
Well , Bartle ? said Mr. Irwine , putting out his hand . 
That was not his usual way of saluting the schoolmaster , but trouble makes us treat all who feel with us very much alike . 
You know what I'm come about as well as I do , sir , I daresay , said Bartle . 
You wish to know the truth about the sad news that has reached you . 
about Hetty Sorrel ? Nay , sir , what I wish to know is about Adam Bede . 
I understand you left him at Stoniton , and I beg the favour of you to tell me what's the state of the poor lad's mind , and what he means to do . 
Why , sir , he's the only scholar I've had in this stupid country that ever had the will or the head piece for mathematics . 
Bartle was heated by the exertion of walking fast in an agitated frame of mind , and was not able to check himself on this first occasion of venting his feelings . 
But he paused now to rub his moist forehead , and probably his moist eyes also . 
I came to hear you speak , not to talk myself if you'll take the trouble to tell me what the poor lad's doing . 
Don't put yourself under any restraint , Bartle , said Mr. Irwine . 
I share your concern for Adam , though he is not the only one whose sufferings I care for in this affair . 
He intends to remain at Stoniton till after the trial it will come on probably a week to morrow . 
Do you think the creatur's guilty , then ? said Bartle . 
Do you think they'll hang her ? I'm afraid it will go hard with her . 
The evidence is very strong . 
And one bad symptom is that she denies everything denies that she has had a child in the face of the most positive evidence . 
I saw her myself , and she was obstinately silent to me she shrank up like a frightened animal when she saw me . 
I was never so shocked in my life as at the change in her . 
But I trust that , in the worst case , we may obtain a pardon for the sake of the innocent who are involved . 
Stuff and nonsense ! said Bartle , forgetting in his irritation to whom he was speaking . 
I beg your pardon , sir , I mean it's stuff and nonsense for the innocent to care about her being hanged . 
Is he very much cut up , poor fellow ? Bartle added , taking out his spectacles and putting them on , as if they would assist his imagination . 
Yes , I'm afraid the grief cuts very deep , said Mr. Irwine . 
He looks terribly shattered , and a certain violence came over him now and then yesterday , which made me wish I could have remained near him . 
This possibility heightened the anxiety with which he looked forward to Arthur's arrival . 
But Bartle thought Mr. Irwine was referring to suicide , and his face wore a new alarm . 
I'll tell you what I have in my head , sir , he said , and I hope you'll approve of it . 
I'll pretend I'm come to look on at the assizes he can't object to that . 
What do you think about it , sir ? Well , said Mr. Irwine , rather hesitatingly , there would be some real advantages in that . 
and I honour you for your friendship towards him , Bartle . 
you must be careful what you say to him , you know . 
I'm afraid you have too little fellow feeling in what you consider his weakness about Hetty . 
Trust to me , sir trust to me . 
I know what you mean . 
I've been a fool myself in my time , but that's between you and me . 
I shan't thrust myself on him only keep my eye on him , and see that he gets some good food , and put in a word here and there . 
I wish you good bye , sir , and thank you for the time you've spared me . 
You're everybody's friend in this business everybody's friend . 
It's a heavy weight you've got on your shoulders . 
Good bye , Bartle , till we meet at Stoniton , as I daresay we shall . 
You'd go fretting yourself to death if I left you you know you would , and perhaps get snapped up by some tramp . 
You would hardly have known it was Adam without being told . 
His face has got thinner this last week he has the sunken eyes , the neglected beard of a man just risen from a sick bed . 
He has one arm over the back of the chair , and he seems to be looking down at his clasped hands . 
He is roused by a knock at the door . 
There he is , said Bartle Massey , rising hastily and unfastening the door . 
Adam rose from his chair with instinctive respect , as Mr. Irwine approached him and took his hand . 
I have done everything now , however everything that can be done to night , at least . 
Let us all sit down . 
Adam took his chair again mechanically , and Bartle , for whom there was no chair remaining , sat on the bed in the background . 
Have you seen her , sir ? said Adam tremulously . 
Yes , Adam I and the chaplain have both been with her this evening . 
Did you ask her , sir . 
did you say anything about me ? Yes , said Mr. Irwine , with some hesitation , I spoke of you . 
I said you wished to see her before the trial , if she consented . 
As Mr. Irwine paused , Adam looked at him with eager , questioning eyes . 
You know she shrinks from seeing any one , Adam . 
It is not only you some fatal influence seems to have shut up her heart against her fellow creatures . 
She has scarcely said anything more than 'No' either to me or the chaplain . 
Adam's head was hanging down again , and he did not speak . 
It is just possible , notwithstanding appearances to the contrary , that the interview might affect her favourably . 
But I grieve to say I have scarcely any hope of that . 
She didn't seem agitated when I mentioned your name she only said 'No , in the same cold , obstinate way as usual . 
And if the meeting had no good effect on her , it would be pure , useless suffering to you severe suffering , I fear . 
She is very much changed . 
Adam started up from his chair and seized his hat , which lay on the table . 
But he stood still then , and looked at Mr. Irwine , as if he had a question to ask which it was yet difficult to utter . 
Bartle Massey rose quietly , turned the key in the door , and put it in his pocket . 
Is he come back ? said Adam at last . 
No , he is not , said Mr. Irwine , quietly . 
Lay down your hat , Adam , unless you like to walk out with me for a little fresh air . 
I fear you have not been out again to day . 
You needn't deceive me , sir , said Adam , looking hard at Mr. Irwine and speaking in a tone of angry suspicion . 
You needn't be afraid of me . 
I want him to feel what she feels . 
she was a child as it 'ud ha' gone t' anybody's heart to look at . 
I don't care what she's done . 
it was him brought her to it . 
And he shall know it . 
if there's a just God , he shall feel what it is t' ha' brought a child like her to sin and misery . 
I'm not deceiving you , Adam , said Mr. Irwine . 
Arthur Donnithorne is not come back was not come back when I left . 
I have left a letter for him he will know all as soon as he arrives . 
But you don't mind about it , said Adam indignantly . 
You think it doesn't matter as she lies there in shame and misery , and he knows nothing about it he suffers nothing . 
Adam , he WILL know he WILL suffer , long and bitterly . 
He has a heart and a conscience I can't be entirely deceived in his character . 
I am convinced I am sure he didn't fall under temptation without a struggle . 
He may be weak , but he is not callous , not coldly selfish . 
I am persuaded that this will be a shock of which he will feel the effects all his life . 
Why do you crave vengeance in this way ? No amount of torture that you could inflict on him could benefit her . 
No O God , no , Adam groaned out , sinking on his chair again but then , that's the deepest curse of all . 
that's what makes the blackness of it . 
IT CAN NEVER BE UNDONE . 
she can never be my sweet Hetty again . 
the prettiest thing God had made smiling up at me . 
I thought she loved me . 
That perhaps can never be known with certainty , Adam , Mr. Irwine answered gently . 
In these cases we sometimes form our judgment on what seems to us strong evidence , and yet , for want of knowing some small fact , our judgment is wrong . 
But suppose the worst you have no right to say that the guilt of her crime lies with him , and that he ought to bear the punishment . 
It is not for us men to apportion the shares of moral guilt and retribution . 
You have a mind that can understand this fully , Adam , when you are calm . 
Don't suppose I can't enter into the anguish that drives you into this state of revengeful hatred . 
What if he didn't foresee what's happened ? He foresaw enough he'd no right to expect anything but harm and shame to her . 
And then he wanted to smooth it off wi' lies . 
No there's plenty o' things folks are hanged for not half so hateful as that . 
There again you partly deceive yourself , Adam . 
There is no sort of wrong deed of which a man can bear the punishment alone you can't isolate yourself and say that the evil which is in you shall not spread . 
Men's lives are as thoroughly blended with each other as the air they breathe evil spreads as necessarily as disease . 
I know , I feel the terrible extent of suffering this sin of Arthur's has caused to others but so does every sin cause suffering to others besides those who commit it . 
You would have committed an act of blind fury that would leave all the present evils just as they were and add worse evils to them . 
Remember what you told me about your feelings after you had given that blow to Arthur in the Grove . 
But at length Adam turned round and said , in a more subdued tone , I've not asked about 'em at th' Hall Farm , sir . 
Is Mr. Poyser coming ? He is come he is in Stoniton to night . 
But I could not advise him to see you , Adam . 
His own mind is in a very perturbed state , and it is best he should not see you till you are calmer . 
Is Dinah Morris come to 'em , sir ? Seth said they'd sent for her . 
No. Mr. Poyser tells me she was not come when he left . 
They're afraid the letter has not reached her . 
It seems they had no exact address . 
Adam sat ruminating a little while , and then said , I wonder if Dinah 'ud ha' gone to see her . 
But perhaps the Poysers would ha' been sorely against it , since they won't come nigh her themselves . 
But I think she would , for the Methodists are great folks for going into the prisons and Seth said he thought she would . 
She'd a very tender way with her , Dinah had I wonder if she could ha' done any good . 
You never saw her , sir , did you ? Yes , I did . 
I had a conversation with her she pleased me a good deal . 
And now you mention it , I wish she would come , for it is possible that a gentle mild woman like her might move Hetty to open her heart . 
The jail chaplain is rather harsh in his manner . 
But it's o' no use if she doesn't come , said Adam sadly . 
If I'd thought of it earlier , I would have taken some measures for finding her out , said Mr. Irwine , but it's too late now , I fear . 
Well , Adam , I must go now . 
Try to get some rest to night . 
I'll see you early to morrow morning . 
He had no knowledge of what was likely to be said by the witnesses on the trial , for he had shrunk from all the particulars connected with Hetty's arrest and accusation . 
This brave active man , who would have hastened towards any danger or toil to rescue Hetty from an apprehended wrong or misfortune , felt himself powerless to contemplate irremediable evil and suffering . 
Energetic natures , strong for all strenuous deeds , will often rush away from a hopeless sufferer , as if they were hard hearted . 
It is the overmastering sense of pain that drives them . 
They shrink by an ungovernable instinct , as they would shrink from laceration . 
If she saw he bore her no ill will for what she had done to him , she might open her heart to him . 
Deep unspeakable suffering may well be called a baptism , a regeneration , the initiation into a new state . 
Doubtless a great anguish may do the work of years , and we may come out from that baptism of fire with a soul full of new awe and new pity . 
O God , Adam groaned , as he leaned on the table and looked blankly at the face of the watch , and men have suffered like this before . 
and poor helpless young things have suffered like her . 
Such a little while ago looking so happy and so pretty . 
kissing 'em all , her grandfather and all of 'em , and they wishing her luck . 
O my poor , poor Hetty . 
dost think on it now ? Adam started and looked round towards the door . 
Vixen had begun to whimper , and there was a sound of a stick and a lame walk on the stairs . 
It was Bartle Massey come back . 
That's a thing never happened to me before , he observed , to go out o' the door with my spectacles on . 
I clean forgot to take 'em off . 
And now , he said , rising again , I must see to your having a bit of the loaf , and some of that wine Mr. Irwine sent this morning . 
He'll be angry with me if you don't have it . 
Come , now , he went on , bringing forward the bottle and the loaf and pouring some wine into a cup , I must have a bit and a sup myself . 
Drink a drop with me , my lad drink with me . 
Adam pushed the cup gently away and said , entreatingly , Tell me about it , Mr. Massey tell me all about it . 
That's all he can do for the money they give him and it's a big sum it's a big sum . 
But he's a 'cute fellow , with an eye that 'ud pick the needles out of the hay in no time . 
If a man had got no feelings , it 'ud be as good as a demonstration to listen to what goes on in court but a tender heart makes one stupid . 
I'd have given up figures for ever only to have had some good news to bring to you , my poor lad . 
But does it seem to be going against her ? said Adam . 
Tell me what they've said . 
I must know it now I must know what they have to bring against her . 
Why , the chief evidence yet has been the doctors all but Martin Poyser poor Martin . 
Everybody in court felt for him it was like one sob , the sound they made when he came down again . 
The worst was when they told him to look at the prisoner at the bar . 
It was hard work , poor fellow it was hard work . 
Adam , my boy , the blow falls heavily on him as well as you you must help poor Martin you must show courage . 
Drink some wine now , and show me you mean to bear it like a man . 
Bartle had made the right sort of appeal . 
Adam , with an air of quiet obedience , took up the cup and drank a little . 
Tell me how SHE looked , he said presently . 
Frightened , very frightened , when they first brought her in it was the first sight of the crowd and the judge , poor creatur . 
They put up their glasses , and stared and whispered . 
But after that she stood like a white image , staring down at her hands and seeming neither to hear nor see anything . 
And she's as white as a sheet . 
She didn't speak when they asked her if she'd plead 'guilty' or 'not guilty , and they pleaded 'not guilty' for her . 
He'd much ado to speak poor man , his voice trembled so . 
And the counsellors who look as hard as nails mostly I saw , spared him as much as they could . 
Mr. Irwine put himself near him and went with him out o' court . 
Ah , it's a great thing in a man's life to be able to stand by a neighbour and uphold him in such trouble as that . 
God bless him , and you too , Mr. Massey , said Adam , in a low voice , laying his hand on Bartle's arm . 
Aye , aye , he's good metal he gives the right ring when you try him , our parson does . 
A man o' sense says no more than's needful . 
I've had to do with such folks in my time in the south , when I was in trouble myself . 
Mr. Irwine is to be a witness himself , by and by , on her side , you know , to speak to her character and bringing up . 
does it go hard against her ! said Adam . 
What do you think , Mr. Massey ? Tell me the truth . 
Yes , my lad , yes . 
The truth is the best thing to tell . 
It must come at last . 
The doctors' evidence is heavy on her is heavy . 
But she's gone on denying she's had a child from first to last . 
These poor silly women things they've not the sense to know it's no use denying what's proved . 
It'll make against her with the jury , I doubt , her being so obstinate they may be less for recommending her to mercy , if the verdict's against her . 
But Mr. Irwine 'ull leave no stone unturned with the judge you may rely upon that , Adam . 
Is there nobody to stand by her and seem to care for her in the court ? said Adam . 
There's the chaplain o' the jail sits near her , but he's a sharp ferrety faced man another sort o' flesh and blood to Mr. Irwine . 
They say the jail chaplains are mostly the fag end o' the clergy . 
There's one man as ought to be there , said Adam bitterly . 
Presently he drew himself up and looked fixedly out of the window , apparently turning over some new idea in his mind . 
Mr. Massey , he said at last , pushing the hair off his forehead , I'll go back with you . 
It's cowardly of me to keep away . 
I'll stand by her I'll own her for all she's been deceitful . 
They oughtn't to cast her off her own flesh and blood . 
We hand folks over to God's mercy , and show none ourselves . 
I used to be hard sometimes I'll never be hard again . 
I'll go , Mr. Massey I'll go with you . 
There was a decision in Adam's manner which would have prevented Bartle from opposing him , even if he had wished to do so . 
He only said , Take a bit , then , and another sup , Adam , for the love of me . 
See , I must stop and eat a morsel . 
Now , you take some . 
Nerved by an active resolution , Adam took a morsel of bread and drank some wine . 
He was haggard and unshaven , as he had been yesterday , but he stood upright again , and looked more like the Adam Bede of former days . 
Chapter XLIII The Verdict THE place fitted up that day as a court of justice was a grand old hall , now destroyed by fire . 
The midday light that fell on the close pavement of human heads was shed through a line of high pointed windows , variegated with the mellow tints of old painted glass . 
But that sorrow seemed to have made it itself feebly felt hitherto , now when Adam Bede's tall figure was suddenly seen being ushered to the side of the prisoner's dock . 
But Hetty did not see him . 
She was standing in the same position Bartle Massey had described , her hands crossed over each other and her eyes fixed on them . 
Others thought she looked as if some demon had cast a blighting glance upon her , withered up the woman's soul in her , and left only a hard despairing obstinacy . 
But presently he heard something that compelled him to listen , and made the sense of sight less absorbing . 
A woman was in the witness box , a middle aged woman , who spoke in a firm distinct voice . 
She said , My name is Sarah Stone . 
I am a widow , and keep a small shop licensed to sell tobacco , snuff , and tea in Church Lane , Stoniton . 
She had taken the house for a public , because there was a figure against the door . 
I asked her to sit down , and gave her some tea , and asked her where she was going , and where her friends were . 
She had been obliged to sell most of the things out of her basket , but she'd thankfully give a shilling for a bed . 
I saw no reason why I shouldn't take the young woman in for the night . 
I had only one room , but there were two beds in it , and I told her she might stay with me . 
The witness then stated that in the night a child was born , and she identified the baby clothes then shown to her as those in which she had herself dressed the child . 
I made them myself , and had kept them by me ever since my last child was born . 
I took a deal of trouble both for the child and the mother . 
I couldn't help taking to the little thing and being anxious about it . 
I didn't send for a doctor , for there seemed no need . 
I told the mother in the day time she must tell me the name of her friends , and where they lived , and let me write to them . 
She said , by and by she would write herself , but not to day . 
She would have no nay , but she would get up and be dressed , in spite of everything I could say . 
She said she felt quite strong enough and it was wonderful what spirit she showed . 
I left the house about half past eight o'clock . 
I didn't go out at the shop door , but at the back door , which opens into a narrow alley . 
I've only got the ground floor of the house , and the kitchen and bedroom both look into the alley . 
I left the prisoner sitting up by the fire in the kitchen with the baby on her lap . 
She hadn't cried or seemed low at all , as she did the night before . 
I thought she had a strange look with her eyes , and she got a bit flushed towards evening . 
I was afraid of the fever , and I thought I'd call and ask an acquaintance of mine , an experienced woman , to come back with me when I went out . 
It was a very dark night . 
But I thought there was no danger in leaving it unfastened that little while . 
I was longer than I meant to be , for I had to wait for the woman that came back with me . 
She'd taken her cloak and bonnet , but she'd left the basket and the things in it . 
I was dreadful frightened , and angry with her for going . 
I didn't go to give information , because I'd no thought she meant to do any harm , and I knew she had money in her pocket to buy her food and lodging . 
I didn't like to set the constable after her , for she'd a right to go from me if she liked . 
The effect of this evidence on Adam was electrical it gave him new force . 
Hetty could not be guilty of the crime her heart must have clung to her baby else why should she have taken it with her ? She might have left it behind . 
The little creature had died naturally , and then she had hidden it . 
Babies were so liable to death and there might be the strongest suspicions without any proof of guilt . 
The whole time this witness was being examined , Hetty had stood as motionless as before no word seemed to arrest her ear . 
This witness was a man , a rough peasant . 
He said My name is John Olding . 
I am a labourer , and live at Tedd's Hole , two miles out of Stoniton . 
She got up when she saw me , and seemed as if she'd be walking on the other way . 
It was a regular road through the fields , and nothing very uncommon to see a young woman there , but I took notice of her because she looked white and scared . 
I should have thought she was a beggar woman , only for her good clothes . 
I thought she looked a bit crazy , but it was no business of mine . 
I stood and looked back after her , but she went right on while she was in sight . 
I had to go to the other side of the coppice to look after some stakes . 
There's a road right through it , and bits of openings here and there , where the trees have been cut down , and some of 'em not carried away . 
I didn't go straight along the road , but turned off towards the middle , and took a shorter way towards the spot I wanted to get to . 
I hadn't got far out of the road into one of the open places before I heard a strange cry . 
I thought it didn't come from any animal I knew , but I wasn't for stopping to look about just then . 
But it went on , and seemed so strange to me in that place , I couldn't help stopping to look . 
I began to think I might make some money of it , if it was a new thing . 
But I had hard work to tell which way it came from , and for a good while I kept looking up at the boughs . 
And then I thought it came from the ground and there was a lot of timber choppings lying about , and loose pieces of turf , and a trunk or two . 
And I looked about among them , but could find nothing , and at last the cry stopped . 
So I was for giving it up , and I went on about my business . 
But when I came back the same way pretty nigh an hour after , I couldn't help laying down my stakes to have another look . 
And just as I was stooping and laying down the stakes , I saw something odd and round and whitish lying on the ground under a nut bush by the side of me . 
And I stooped down on hands and knees to pick it up . 
And I saw it was a little baby's hand . 
At these words a thrill ran through the court . 
Hetty was visibly trembling now , for the first time , she seemed to be listening to what a witness said . 
There was a lot of timber choppings put together just where the ground went hollow , like , under the bush , and the hand came out from among them . 
It had got comfortable clothes on , but its body was cold , and I thought it must be dead . 
I made haste back with it out of the wood , and took it home to my wife . 
She said it was dead , and I'd better take it to the parish and tell the constable . 
And I said , 'I'll lay my life it's that young woman's child as I met going to the coppice . 
But she seemed to be gone clean out of sight . 
And I took the child on to Hetton parish and told the constable , and we went on to Justice Hardy . 
And then we went looking after the young woman till dark at night , and we went and gave information at Stoniton , as they might stop her . 
And the next morning , another constable came to me , to go with him to the spot where I found the child . 
She'd got a big piece of bread on her lap . 
Adam had given a faint groan of despair while this witness was speaking . 
He had hidden his face on his arm , which rested on the boarding in front of him . 
It was the supreme moment of his suffering Hetty was guilty and he was silently calling to God for help . 
At last Adam lifted up his head , for there was a general movement round him . 
The judge had addressed the jury , and they were retiring . 
The decisive moment was not far off Adam felt a shuddering horror that would not let him look at Hetty , but she had long relapsed into her blank hard indifference . 
All eyes were strained to look at her , but she stood like a statue of dull despair . 
'There was a mingled rustling , whispering , and low buzzing throughout the court during this interval . 
The desire to listen was suspended , and every one had some feeling or opinion to express in undertones . 
The inward action was too intense for Adam to take in outward objects until some strong sensation roused him . 
It is sublime that sudden pause of a great multitude which tells that one soul moves in them all . 
It was the verdict every one expected , but there was a sigh of disappointment from some hearts that it was followed by no recommendation to mercy . 
Still the sympathy of the court was not with the prisoner . 
The unnaturalness of her crime stood out the more harshly by the side of her hard immovability and obstinate silence . 
Even the verdict , to distant eyes , had not appeared to move her , but those who were near saw her trembling . 
The stillness was less intense until the judge put on his black cap , and the chaplain in his canonicals was observed behind him . 
Then it deepened again , before the crier had had time to command silence . 
If any sound were heard , it must have been the sound of beating hearts . 
The judge spoke , Hester Sorrel . 
Adam had not yet turned towards her , there was a deep horror , like a great gulf , between them . 
But at the words and then to be hanged by the neck till you be dead , a piercing shriek rang through the hall . 
Adam started to his feet and stretched out his arms towards her . 
But the arms could not reach her she had fallen down in a fainting fit , and was carried out of court . 
He might have felt or wished something at the last that I shall never know now . 
It was a lonely death . 
It is impossible to say that his grief was deeper than that . 
Now his real life was beginning now he would have room and opportunity for action , and he would use them . 
He would show the Loamshire people what a fine country gentleman was he would not exchange that career for any other under the sun . 
The happy faces Arthur saw greeting him were not pale abstractions , but real ruddy faces , long familiar to him Martin Poyser was there the whole Poyser family . 
He knew Arthur would like to hear that Adam had this sort of happiness in prospect . 
Yes , indeed ! Arthur felt there was not air enough in the room to satisfy his renovated life , when he had read that passage in the letter . 
For the first time that day since he had come to Windsor , he was in true boyish spirits . 
The load that had been pressing upon him was gone , the haunting fear had vanished . 
He had been knocked down , and he had been forced to tell a lie such things make a scar , do what we will . 
For really she could not have felt much , since she had so soon made up her mind to marry Adam . 
You perceive clearly what sort of picture Adam and Hetty made in the panorama of Arthur's thoughts on his journey homeward . 
It was March now they were soon to be married perhaps they were already married . 
And now it was actually in his power to do a great deal for them . 
And she would look just the same . 
It was impossible to think how he could meet her he should certainly tremble . 
Strange , how long this sort of influence lasts , for he was certainly not in love with Hetty now . 
It was the exaggerating effect of imagination that made his heart still beat a little more quickly at the thought of her . 
Thank heaven it had turned out so well ! He should have plenty of affairs and interests to fill his life now , and not be in danger of playing the fool again . 
That was an ugly fault in Arthur's life , that affair last summer , but the future should make amends . 
No , Arthur had not an evil feeling in his mind towards any human being he was happy , and would make every one else happy that came within his reach . 
Poor Grandfather ! And he lies dead there . 
He was a young fellow once , coming into the estate and making his plans . 
So the world goes round ! Aunt Lydia must feel very desolate , poor thing but she shall be indulged as much as she indulges her fat Fido . 
The wheels of Arthur's chaise had been anxiously listened for at the Chase , for to day was Friday , and the funeral had already been deferred two days . 
Aunt Lydia was the only person in the house who knew nothing about Hetty . 
But Arthur kissed her tearful face more tenderly than he had ever done in his life before . 
It was so sudden and so dreadful , Arthur , poor Miss Lydia began , pouring out her little plaints , and Arthur sat down to listen with impatient patience . 
My room is all ready for me , I suppose , Mills ? he said to the butler , who seemed to be lingering uneasily about the entrance hall . 
Yes , sir , and there are letters for you they are all laid on the writing table in your dressing room . 
At such a time as that it was quite natural that Irwine should have something pressing to say . 
Arthur broke the seal with an agreeable anticipation of soon seeing the writer . 
Hetty Sorrel is in prison , and will be tried on Friday for the crime of child murder . 
Mills was still there , but Arthur did not see him , as he passed like a hunted man across the hall and out along the gravel . 
The butler hurried out after him as fast as his elderly limbs could run he guessed , he knew , where the young squire was going . 
When Mills got to the stables , a horse was being saddled , and Arthur was forcing himself to read the remaining words of the letter . 
He thrust it into his pocket as the horse was led up to him , and at that moment caught sight of Mills' anxious face in front of him . 
Tell them I'm gone gone to Stoniton , he said in a muffled tone of agitation sprang into the saddle , and set off at a gallop . 
I have seen you before , he said at last . 
Do you remember preaching on the village green at Hayslope in Loamshire ? Yes , sir , surely . 
Are you the gentleman that stayed to listen on horseback ? Yes . 
Have you power in the prison , sir ? Yes I am a magistrate , and can get admittance for you . 
But did you know this criminal , Hetty Sorrel ? Yes , we are kin . 
My own aunt married her uncle , Martin Poyser . 
But I was away at Leeds , and didn't know of this great trouble in time to get here before to day . 
I entreat you , sir , for the love of our heavenly Father , to let me go to her and stay with her . 
How did you know she was condemned to death , if you are only just come from Leeds ? I have seen my uncle since the trial , sir . 
He is gone back to his home now , and the poor sinner is forsaken of all . 
I beseech you to get leave for me to be with her . 
What ! Have you courage to stay all night in the prison ? She is very sullen , and will scarcely make answer when she is spoken to . 
Oh , sir , it may please God to open her heart still . 
Come , then , said the elderly gentleman , ringing and gaining admission , I know you have a key to unlock hearts . 
There was no agitation visible in her , but a deep concentrated calmness , as if , even when she was speaking , her soul was in prayer reposing on an unseen support . 
My name is Colonel Townley if I can help you in anything , ask the jailer for my address and come to me . 
I take some interest in this Hetty Sorrel , for the sake of that fine fellow , Adam Bede . 
I happened to see him at Hayslope the same evening I heard you preach , and recognized him in court to day , ill as he looked . 
Ah , sir , can you tell me anything about him ? Can you tell me where he lodges ? For my poor uncle was too much weighed down with trouble to remember . 
I inquired all about him of Mr. Irwine . 
He lodges over a tinman's shop , in the street on the right hand as you entered the prison . 
There is an old school master with him . 
Now , good bye I wish you success . 
I am grateful to you . 
The turnkey looked askance at her all the while , but never spoke . 
He somehow felt that the sound of his own rude voice would be grating just then . 
Nay , friend , thank you , said Dinah . 
I wish to go in alone . 
As you like , said the jailer , turning the harsh key in the lock and opening the door wide enough to admit Dinah . 
A jet of light from his lantern fell on the opposite corner of the cell , where Hetty was sitting on her straw pallet with her face buried in her knees . 
It seemed as if she were asleep , and yet the grating of the lock would have been likely to waken her . 
The door closed again , and the only light in the cell was that of the evening sky , through the small high grating enough to discern human faces by . 
Dinah stood still for a minute , hesitating to speak because Hetty might be asleep , and looking at the motionless heap with a yearning heart . 
Dinah spoke again , in a tone made stronger by irrepressible emotion , Hetty . 
Again there was a slight startled movement through Hetty's frame , and without uncovering her face , she raised her head a little , as if listening . 
Dinah is come to you . 
After a moment's pause , Hetty lifted her head slowly and timidly from her knees and raised her eyes . 
The two pale faces were looking at each other one with a wild hard despair in it , the other full of sad yearning love . 
Dinah unconsciously opened her arms and stretched them out . 
I'm come to be with you , Hetty not to leave you to stay with you to be your sister to the last . 
Slowly , while Dinah was speaking , Hetty rose , took a step forward , and was clasped in Dinah's arms . 
They stood so a long while , for neither of them felt the impulse to move apart again . 
The light got fainter as they stood , and when at last they sat down on the straw pallet together , their faces had become indistinct . 
Not a word was spoken . 
Dinah waited , hoping for a spontaneous word from Hetty , but she sat in the same dull despair , only clutching the hand that held hers and leaning her cheek against Dinah's . 
It was the human contact she clung to , but she was not the less sinking into the dark gulf . 
Dinah began to doubt whether Hetty was conscious who it was that sat beside her . 
She thought suffering and fear might have driven the poor sinner out of her mind . 
At last she was prompted to speak and find out how far Hetty was conscious of the present . 
Hetty , she said gently , do you know who it is that sits by your side ? Yes , Hetty answered slowly , it's Dinah . 
Then , after a pause , she added , But you can do nothing for me . 
You can't make 'em do anything . 
They'll hang me o' Monday it's Friday now . 
As Hetty said the last words , she clung closer to Dinah , shuddering . 
No , Hetty , I can't save you from that death . 
But isn't the suffering less hard when you have somebody with you , that feels for you that you can speak to , and say what's in your heart ? . 
Yes , Hetty you lean on me you are glad to have me with you . 
You won't leave me , Dinah ? You'll keep close to me ? No , Hetty , I won't leave you . 
I'll stay with you to the last . 
But , Hetty , there is some one else in this cell besides me , some one close to you . 
It makes no difference whether we live or die , we are in the presence of God . 
Oh , Dinah , won't nobody do anything for me ? Will they hang me for certain ? . 
I wouldn't mind if they'd let me live . 
My poor Hetty , death is very dreadful to you . 
But if you had a friend to take care of you after death in that other world some one whose love is greater than mine who can do everything ? . 
Because , Hetty , you are shutting up your soul against him , by trying to hide the truth . 
I couldn't have made you feel my love I couldn't have told you what I felt for you . 
Don't shut God's love out in that way , by clinging to sin . 
It is sin that brings dread , and darkness , and despair there is light and blessedness for us as soon as we cast it off . 
God enters our souls then , and teaches us , and brings us strength and peace . 
Cast it off now , Hetty now confess the wickedness you have done the sin you have been guilty of against your Heavenly Father . 
Let us kneel down together , for we are in the presence of God . 
Hetty obeyed Dinah's movement , and sank on her knees . 
They still held each other's hands , and there was long silence . 
Then Dinah said , Hetty , we are before God . 
He is waiting for you to tell the truth . 
At last Hetty spoke , in a tone of beseeching Dinah . 
I can't feel anything like you . 
Come Lord , and gather of the fruits of thy travail and thy pleading . 
Stretch forth thy hand , thou who art mighty to save to the uttermost , and rescue this lost one . 
She is clothed round with thick darkness . 
The fetters of her sin are upon her , and she cannot stir to come to thee . 
She can only feel her heart is hard , and she is helpless . 
She cries to me , thy weak creature . 
Saviour ! It is a blind cry to thee . 
Hear it ! Pierce the darkness ! Look upon her with thy face of love and sorrow that thou didst turn on him who denied thee , and melt her hard heart . 
See , Lord , I bring her , as they of old brought the sick and helpless , and thou didst heal them . 
I bear her on my arms and carry her before thee . 
Fear and trembling have taken hold on her , but she trembles only at the pain and death of the body . 
Breathe upon her thy life giving Spirit , and put a new fear within her the fear of her sin . 
Make her dread to keep the accursed thing within her soul . 
Saviour ! It is yet time time to snatch this poor soul from everlasting darkness . 
I believe I believe in thy infinite love . 
What is my love or my pleading ? It is quenched in thine . 
I can only clasp her in my weak arms and urge her with my weak pity . 
Thou thou wilt breathe on the dead soul , and it shall arise from the unanswering sleep of death . 
Yea , Lord , I see thee , coming through the darkness coming , like the morning , with healing on thy wings . 
The marks of thy agony are upon thee I see , I see thou art able and willing to save thou wilt not let her perish for ever . 
Come , mighty Saviour ! Let the dead hear thy voice . 
Let the eyes of the blind be opened . 
Let her see that God encompasses her . 
Let her tremble at nothing but at the sin that cuts her off from him . 
Unseal the closed lips make her cry with her whole soul , 'Father , I have sinned . 
Dinah , Hetty sobbed out , throwing her arms round Dinah's neck , I will speak . 
I won't hide it any more . 
But the tears and sobs were too violent . 
Dinah raised her gently from her knees and seated her on the pallet again , sitting down by her side . 
It was a long time before the convulsed throat was quiet , and even then they sat some time in stillness and darkness , holding each other's hands . 
At last Hetty whispered , I did do it , Dinah . 
I buried it in the wood . 
ever such a way off . 
and I went back because it cried . 
She paused , and then spoke hurriedly in a louder , pleading tone . 
But I thought perhaps it wouldn't die there might somebody find it . 
I didn't kill it I didn't kill it myself . 
I put it down there and covered it up , and when I came back it was gone . 
It was because I was so very miserable , Dinah . 
I didn't know where to go . 
and I tried to kill myself before , and I couldn't . 
Oh , I tried so to drown myself in the pool , and I couldn't . 
I daredn't go back home again I couldn't bear it . 
I couldn't have bore to look at anybody , for they'd have scorned me . 
I thought o' you sometimes , and thought I'd come to you , for I didn't think you'd be cross with me , and cry shame on me . 
I thought I could tell you . 
But then the other folks 'ud come to know it at last , and I couldn't bear that . 
Oh , it was so dreadful , Dinah . 
I wished I'd never been born into this world . 
I should never like to go into the green fields again I hated 'em so in my misery . 
Hetty paused again , as if the sense of the past were too strong upon her for words . 
And then I got to Stoniton , and I began to feel frightened that night , because I was so near home . 
And then the little baby was born , when I didn't expect it and the thought came into my mind that I might get rid of it and go home again . 
The thought came all of a sudden , as I was lying in the bed , and it got stronger and stronger . 
I longed so to go back again . 
I couldn't bear being so lonely and coming to beg for want . 
And it gave me strength and resolution to get up and dress myself . 
I felt I must do it . 
I thought I'd find a pool , if I could , like that other , in the corner of the field , in the dark . 
And when the woman went out , I felt as if I was strong enough to do anything . 
And I came to a haystack , where I thought I could lie down and keep myself warm all night . 
And I saw a wood a little way off . 
I thought there'd perhaps be a ditch or a pond there . 
and it was so early I thought I could hide the child there , and get a long way off before folks was up . 
And then I thought I'd go home I'd get rides in carts and go home and tell 'em I'd been to try and see for a place , and couldn't get one . 
I longed so for it , Dinah , I longed so to be safe at home . 
I don't know how I felt about the baby . 
I seemed to hate it it was like a heavy weight hanging round my neck and yet its crying went through me , and I daredn't look at its little hands and face . 
But I went on to the wood , and I walked about , but there was no water . 
She was silent for some moments , and when she began again , it was in a whisper . 
I came to a place where there was lots of chips and turf , and I sat down on the trunk of a tree to think what I should do . 
And all of a sudden I saw a hole under the nut tree , like a little grave . 
And it darted into me like lightning I'd lay the baby there and cover it with the grass and the chips . 
I couldn't kill it any other way . 
And I sat against the haystack to watch if anybody 'ud come . 
I was very hungry , and I'd only a bit of bread left , but I couldn't go away . 
I thought he was going to the wood and would perhaps find the baby . 
And I went right on , till I came to a village , a long way off from the wood , and I was very sick , and faint , and hungry . 
I got something to eat there , and bought a loaf . 
But I was frightened to stay . 
I heard the baby crying , and thought the other folks heard it too and I went on . 
But I was so tired , and it was getting towards dark . 
I went in , and it was half full o' trusses of straw , and there was some hay too . 
And I made myself a bed , ever so far behind , where nobody could find me and I was so tired and weak , I went to sleep . 
But oh , the baby's crying kept waking me , and I thought that man as looked at me so was come and laying hold of me . 
But it was morning , for it kept getting lighter , and I turned back the way I'd come . 
I couldn't help it , Dinah it was the baby's crying made me go and yet I was frightened to death . 
I thought that man in the smock frock 'ud see me and know I put the baby there . 
But I went on , for all that . 
I'd left off thinking about going home it had gone out o' my mind . 
I saw nothing but that place in the wood where I'd buried the baby . 
Oh Dinah ! shall I allays see it ? Hetty clung round Dinah and shuddered again . 
The silence seemed long before she went on . 
I met nobody , for it was very early , and I got into the wood . 
I knew the way to the place . 
the place against the nut tree and I could hear it crying at every step . 
I thought it was alive . 
I don't know whether I was frightened or glad . 
I don't know what I felt . 
I only know I was in the wood and heard the cry . 
I don't know what I felt till I saw the baby was gone . 
I never thought o' stirring , I felt so weak . 
I knew I couldn't run away , and everybody as saw me 'ud know about the baby . 
My heart went like a stone . 
I couldn't wish or try for anything it seemed like as if I should stay there for ever , and nothing 'ud ever change . 
But they came and took me away . 
Hetty was silent , but she shuddered again , as if there was still something behind and Dinah waited , for her heart was so full that tears must come before words . 
Let us fall on our knees again , and pray to the God of all mercy . 
Adam was seated with is back towards the door , but he started up and turned round instantly , with a flushed face and an eager look . 
His face was even thinner and more worn than we have seen it before , but he was washed and shaven this Sunday morning . 
Is it any news ? he said . 
Keep yourself quiet , my lad , said Bartle keep quiet . 
It's not what you're thinking of . 
It's the young Methodist woman come from the prison . 
She thought you'd perhaps like to go out and speak to her . 
These preaching women are not so back'ard commonly , Bartle muttered to himself . 
Ask her to come in , said Adam . 
There was a trembling in her clear voice as she put her hand into his and said , Be comforted , Adam Bede , the Lord has not forsaken her . 
Bless you for coming to her , Adam said . 
Mr. Massey brought me word yesterday as you was come . 
But he recovered himself first , and said , Sit down , young woman , sit down , placing the chair for her and retiring to his old seat on the bed . 
Thank you , friend I won't sit down , said Dinah , for I must hasten back . 
She entreated me not to stay long away . 
What I came for , Adam Bede , was to pray you to go and see the poor sinner and bid her farewell . 
She desires to ask your forgiveness , and it is meet you should see her to day , rather than in the early morning , when the time will be short . 
Adam stood trembling , and at last sank down on his chair again . 
It won't be , he said , it'll be put off there'll perhaps come a pardon . 
Mr. Irwine said there was hope . 
He said , I needn't quite give it up . 
That's a blessed thought to me , said Dinah , her eyes filling with tears . 
It's a fearful thing hurrying her soul away so fast . 
But let what will be , she added presently . 
You will surely come , and let her speak the words that are in her heart . 
Although her poor soul is very dark and discerns little beyond the things of the flesh , she is no longer hard . 
She is contrite , she has confessed all to me . 
The pride of her heart has given way , and she leans on me for help and desires to be taught . 
This fills me with trust , for I cannot but think that the brethren sometimes err in measuring the Divine love by the sinner's knowledge . 
You will come , Adam ? Perhaps you will even now come back with me . 
I can't , Adam said . 
I can't say good bye while there's any hope . 
I'm listening , and listening I can't think o' nothing but that . 
It can't be as she'll die that shameful death I can't bring my mind to it . 
He got up from his chair again and looked away out of the window , while Dinah stood with compassionate patience . 
In a minute or two he turned round and said , I will come , Dinah . 
I may have more strength to bear it , if I know it must be . 
Tell her , I forgive her tell her I will come at the very last . 
I will not urge you against the voice of your own heart , said Dinah . 
I must hasten back to her , for it is wonderful how she clings now , and was not willing to let me out of her sight . 
She used never to make any return to my affection before , but now tribulation has opened her heart . 
Our heavenly Father comfort you and strengthen you to bear all things . 
Dinah put out her hand , and Adam pressed it in silence . 
It's a pity she's a Methodist but there's no getting a woman without some foolishness or other . 
Adam never went to bed that night . 
What does it matter to me , lad ? Bartle said a night's sleep more or less ? I shall sleep long enough , by and by , underground . 
Let me keep thee company in trouble while I can . 
It was a long and dreary night in that small chamber . 
Sometimes he would burst out into vehement speech , If I could ha' done anything to save her if my bearing anything would ha' done any good . 
but t' have to sit still , and know it , and do nothing . 
it's hard for a man to bear . 
and to think o' what might ha' been now , if it hadn't been for HIM . 
O God , it's the very day we should ha' been married . 
Aye , my lad , said Bartle tenderly , it's heavy it's heavy . 
But you must remember this when you thought of marrying her , you'd a notion she'd got another sort of a nature inside her . 
You didn't think she could have got hardened in that little while to do what she's done . 
I know I know that , said Adam . 
I thought she was loving and tender hearted , and wouldn't tell a lie , or act deceitful . 
What would it ha' signified my having a bit o' trouble with her ? It 'ud ha' been nothing to this . 
There's no knowing , my lad there's no knowing what might have come . 
The smart's bad for you to bear now you must have time you must have time . 
But I've that opinion of you , that you'll rise above it all and be a man again , and there may good come out of this that we don't see . 
Good come out of it ! said Adam passionately . 
That doesn't alter th' evil HER ruin can't be undone . 
I hate that talk o' people , as if there was a way o' making amends for everything . 
They'd more need be brought to see as the wrong they do can never be altered . 
When a man's spoiled his fellow creatur's life , he's no right to comfort himself with thinking good may come out of it . 
Somebody else's good doesn't alter her shame and misery . 
Well , lad , well , said Bartle , in a gentle tone , strangely in contrast with his usual peremptoriness and impatience of contradiction , it's likely enough I talk foolishness . 
I'm an old fellow , and it's a good many years since I was in trouble myself . 
It's easy finding reasons why other folks should be patient . 
Mr. Massey , said Adam penitently , I'm very hot and hasty . 
I owe you something different but you mustn't take it ill of me . 
Not I , lad not I. So the night wore on in agitation till the chill dawn and the growing light brought the tremulous quiet that comes on the brink of despair . 
There would soon be no more suspense . 
Let us go to the prison now , Mr. Massey , said Adam , when he saw the hand of his watch at six . 
If there's any news come , we shall hear about it . 
The people were astir already , moving rapidly , in one direction , through the streets . 
Adam tried not to think where they were going , as they hurried past him in that short space between his lodging and the prison gates . 
He was thankful when the gates shut him in from seeing those eager people . 
No there was no news come no pardon no reprieve . 
Adam lingered in the court half an hour before he could bring himself to send word to Dinah that he was come . 
But a voice caught his ear he could not shut out the words . 
The cart is to set off at half past seven . 
It must be said the last good bye there was no help . 
In ten minutes from that time , Adam was at the door of the cell . 
Dinah had sent him word that she could not come to him she could not leave Hetty one moment but Hetty was prepared for the meeting . 
He could not see her when he entered , for agitation deadened his senses , and the dim cell was almost dark to him . 
He stood a moment after the door closed behind him , trembling and stupefied . 
But he began to see through the dimness to see the dark eyes lifted up to him once more , but with no smile in them . 
They were Hetty's eyes looking at him with that mournful gaze , as if she had come back to him from the dead to tell him of her misery . 
She was clinging close to Dinah her cheek was against Dinah's . 
When the sad eyes met when Hetty and Adam looked at each other she felt the change in him too , and it seemed to strike her with fresh fear . 
It was the first time she had seen any being whose face seemed to reflect the change in herself Adam was a new image of the dreadful past and the dreadful present . 
She trembled more as she looked at him . 
Speak to him , Hetty , Dinah said tell him what is in your heart . 
Hetty obeyed her , like a little child . 
I behaved very wrong to you . 
before I die ? Adam answered with a half sob , Yes , I forgive thee Hetty . 
I forgave thee long ago . 
Hetty made an involuntary movement towards him , some of the love that she had once lived in the midst of was come near her again . 
And tell him , Hetty said , in rather a stronger voice , tell him . 
for there's nobody else to tell him . 
as I went after him and couldn't find him . 
and I hated him and cursed him once . 
but Dinah says I should forgive him . 
for else God won't forgive me . 
He was too agitated to see more even to see that Mr. Irwine's face was one of them . 
He felt that the last preparations were beginning , and he could stay no longer . 
Room was silently made for him to depart , and he went to his chamber in loneliness , leaving Bartle Massey to watch and see the end . 
But Dinah was hardly conscious of the multitude . 
When Hetty had caught sight of the vast crowd in the distance , she had clutched Dinah convulsively . 
Close your eyes , Hetty , Dinah said , and let us pray without ceasing to God . 
Hetty's shriek mingled with the sound , and they clasped each other in mutual horror . 
But it was not a shout of execration not a yell of exultant cruelty . 
It was a shout of sudden excitement at the appearance of a horseman cleaving the crowd at full gallop . 
See , he has something in his hand he is holding it up as if it were a signal . 
The Sheriff knows him it is Arthur Donnithorne , carrying in his hand a hard won release from death . 
Chapter XLVIII A nother Meeting in the Wood THE next day , at evening , two men were walking from opposite points towards the same scene , drawn thither by a common memory . 
The scene was the Grove by Donnithorne Chase you know who the men were . 
He thought he could do that best in the Grove . 
Seth and me are sure to find work , he said . 
A man that's got our trade at his finger ends is at home everywhere and we must make a new start . 
It's wonderful how quiet she's been ever since I came back . 
It seems as if the very greatness o' the trouble had quieted and calmed her . 
We shall all be better in a new country , though there's some I shall be loath to leave behind . 
But I won't part from you and yours , if I can help it , Mr. Poyser . 
Aye , lad , said Martin . 
We'll go out o' hearing o' that man's name . 
We shall have that flyin' up in our faces , and our children's after us . 
But to morrow , he said to himself , I'll go to work again . 
I shall learn to like it again some time , maybe and it's right whether I like it or not . 
This evening was the last he would allow to be absorbed by sorrow suspense was gone now , and he must bear the unalterable . 
He was resolved not to see Arthur Donnithorne again , if it were possible to avoid him . 
He had no message to deliver from Hetty now , for Hetty had seen Arthur . 
And Adam distrusted himself he had learned to dread the violence of his own feeling . 
That word of Mr. Irwine's that he must remember what he had felt after giving the last blow to Arthur in the Grove had remained with him . 
I'll go and see it again to night for the last time , he said it'll do me good it'll make me feel over again what I felt when I'd knocked him down . 
I felt what poor empty work it was , as soon as I'd done it , before I began to think he might be dead . 
In this way it happened that Arthur and Adam were walking towards the same spot at the same time . 
He had not long entered the Grove , and now he paused before a beech . 
He knew that tree well it was the boundary mark of his youth the sign , to him , of the time when some of his earliest , strongest feelings had left him . 
He felt sure they would never return . 
It was affection for the dead THAT Arthur existed no longer . 
They both started , and looked at each other in silence . 
Adam knew what suffering was he could not lay a cruel finger on a bruised man . 
He felt no impulse that he needed to resist . 
Silence was more just than reproach . 
Arthur was the first to speak . 
Adam , he said , quietly , it may be a good thing that we have met here , for I wished to see you . 
I should have asked to see you to morrow . 
He paused , but Adam said nothing . 
I know it is painful to you to meet me , Arthur went on , but it is not likely to happen again for years to come . 
Arthur felt the answer keenly , and it was not without an effort that he spoke again . 
It was partly on that subject I wished to speak to you . 
I don't want to lessen your indignation against me , or ask you to do anything for my sake . 
I only wish to ask you if you will help me to lessen the evil consequences of the past , which is unchangeable . 
I don't mean consequences to myself , but to others . 
It is but little I can do , I know . 
I know the worst consequences will remain but something may be done , and you can help me . 
Will you listen to me patiently ? Yes , sir , said Adam , after some hesitation I'll hear what it is . 
If I can help to mend anything , I will . 
Anger 'ull mend nothing , I know . 
We've had enough o' that . 
I was going to the Hermitage , said Arthur . 
Will you go there with me and sit down ? We can talk better there . 
The Hermitage had never been entered since they left it together , for Arthur had locked up the key in his desk . 
It would have been painful to enter this place if their previous thoughts had been less painful . 
They sat down opposite each other in the old places , and Arthur said , I'm going away , Adam I'm going into the army . 
Poor Arthur felt that Adam ought to be affected by this announcement ought to have a movement of sympathy towards him . 
But Adam's lips remained firmly closed , and the expression of his face unchanged . 
I would do anything , there is no sacrifice I would not make , to prevent any further injury to others through my through what has happened . 
Arthur's words had precisely the opposite effect to that he had anticipated . 
He was as strongly impelled to look painful facts right in the face as Arthur was to turn away his eyes from them . 
Moreover , he had the wakeful suspicious pride of a poor man in the presence of a rich man . 
He felt his old severity returning as he said , The time's past for that , sir . 
A man should make sacrifices to keep clear of doing a wrong sacrifices won't undo it when it's done . 
When people's feelings have got a deadly wound , they can't be cured with favours . 
But then , sir , folks's feelings are not so easily overcome . 
I don't see how the thing's to be made any other than hard . 
There's a sort o' damage , sir , that can't be made up for . 
Arthur was silent some moments . 
In spite of other feelings dominant in him this evening , his pride winced under Adam's mode of treating him . 
He was presenting the sort of resistance that was the most irritating to Arthur's eager ardent nature . 
But his anger was subdued by the same influence that had subdued Adam's when they first confronted each other by the marks of suffering in a long familiar face . 
You would have some excuse then for trying to make the evil worse . 
Arthur paused a moment and then added , pleadingly , You know that's a good work to do for the sake of other people , besides the owner . 
And you don't know but that they may have a better owner soon , whom you will like to work for . 
If I die , my cousin Tradgett will have the estate and take my name . 
He is a good fellow . 
He was silent yet Arthur saw an answer in his face that induced him to go on , with growing earnestness . 
I know , of course , that they would not accept any favour from me I mean nothing of that kind but I'm sure they would suffer less in the end . 
And Mr. Irwine is to have the chief authority on the estate he has consented to undertake that . 
They will really be under no man but one whom they respect and like . 
It would be the same with you , Adam , and it could be nothing but a desire to give me worse pain that could incline you to go . 
Arthur was silent again for a little while , and then said , with some agitation in his voice , I wouldn't act so towards you , I know . 
If you were in my place and I in yours , I should try to help you to do the best . 
Adam made a hasty movement on his chair and looked on the ground . 
Arthur went on , Perhaps you've never done anything you've had bitterly to repent of in your life , Adam if you had , you would be more generous . 
You would know then that it's worse for me than for you . 
Facile natures , whose emotions have little permanence , can hardly understand how much inward resistance he overcame before he rose from his seat and turned towards Arthur . 
Arthur heard the movement , and turning round , met the sad but softened look with which Adam said , It's true what you say , sir . 
I'm hard it's in my nature . 
I was too hard with my father , for doing wrong . 
I've been a bit hard t' everybody but her . 
But feeling overmuch about her has perhaps made me unfair to you . 
I've known what it is in my life to repent and feel it's too late . 
I felt I'd been too harsh to my father when he was gone from me I feel it now , when I think of him . 
I've no right to be hard towards them as have done wrong and repent . 
Adam spoke these words with the firm distinctness of a man who is resolved to leave nothing unsaid that he is bound to say but he went on with more hesitation . 
I wouldn't shake hands with you once , sir , when you asked me but if you're willing to do it now , for all I refused then . 
Arthur's white hand was in Adam's large grasp in an instant , and with that action there was a strong rush , on both sides , of the old , boyish affection . 
Adam , Arthur said , impelled to full confession now , it would never have happened if I'd known you loved her . 
That would have helped to save me from it . 
I never meant to injure her . 
I deceived you afterwards and that led on to worse but I thought it was forced upon me , I thought it was the best thing I could do . 
And in that letter I told her to let me know if she were in any trouble don't think I would not have done everything I could . 
But I was all wrong from the very first , and horrible wrong has come of it . 
God knows , I'd give my life if I could undo it . 
I'll pray God to help you , as I pray him to help me . 
I could worship that woman I don't know what I should do if she were not there . 
Adam , you will see her when she comes back . 
I could say nothing to her yesterday nothing of what I felt towards her . 
I know she doesn't care about such things or anything else I can give her for its own sake . 
But she will use the watch I shall like to think of her using it . 
I'll give it to her , sir , Adam said , and tell her your words . 
She told me she should come back to the people at the Hall Farm . 
And you will persuade the Poysers to stay , Adam ? said Arthur , reminded of the subject which both of them had forgotten in the first interchange of revived friendship . 
I know that's what they'll feel , and I can't help feeling a little of it myself . 
When folks have got an honourable independent spirit , they don't like to do anything that might make 'em seem base minded . 
But no one who knows you will think that , Adam . 
That is not a reason strong enough against a course that is really more generous , more unselfish than the other . 
And it will be known it shall be made known , that both you and the Poysers stayed at my entreaty . 
Adam , don't try to make things worse for me I'm punished enough without that . 
No , sir , no , Adam said , looking at Arthur with mournful affection . 
God forbid I should make things worse for you . 
I used to wish I could do it , in my passion but that was when I thought you didn't feel enough . 
I'll stay , sir , I'll do the best I can . 
It's all I've got to think of now to do my work well and make the world a bit better place for them as can enjoy it . 
Then we'll part now , Adam . 
You will see Mr. Irwine to morrow , and consult with him about everything . 
Are you going soon , sir ? said Adam . 
As soon as possible after I've made the necessary arrangements . 
I shall think of you going about the old place . 
The hands were clasped once more , and Adam left the Hermitage , feeling that sorrow was more bearable now hatred was gone . 
As soon as the door was closed behind him , Arthur went to the waste paper basket and took out the little pink silk handkerchief . 
Totty is larger by more than two years' growth than when you first saw her , and she has on a black frock under her pinafore . 
Mrs. Poyser too has on a black gown , which seems to heighten the family likeness between her and Dinah . 
In other respects there is little outward change now discernible in our old friends , or in the pleasant house place , bright with polished oak and pewter . 
I never saw the like to you , Dinah , Mrs. Poyser was saying , when you've once took anything into your head there's no more moving you than the rooted tree . 
It's only when one 'ud have you do what's plain common sense and good for yourself , as you're obstinate th' other way . 
Wrong ! You drive me past bearing . 
Dear Aunt Rachel , said Dinah , looking up in Mrs. Poyser's face , it's your kindness makes you say I'm useful to you . 
Indeed , you will not miss me and at Snowfield there are brethren and sisters in great need , who have none of those comforts you have around you . 
I feel that I am called back to those amongst whom my lot was first cast . 
I feel drawn again towards the hills where I used to be blessed in carrying the word of life to the sinful and desolate . 
She'll no more go on in her new ways without you than a dog 'ull stand on its hind legs when there's nobody looking . 
Totty trotted off in her flapping bonnet , while Mrs. Poyser set out the bright oak table and reached down the tea cups . 
You talk o' them gells Nancy and Molly being clever i' their work , she began again it's fine talking . 
They're all the same , clever or stupid one can't trust 'em out o' one's sight a minute . 
They want somebody's eye on 'em constant if they're to be kept to their work . 
Aunt , said Dinah , I promise to come back to you in the winter if you're ill . 
Don't think I will ever stay away from you if you're in real want of me . 
No one can know but myself what are my inward needs , and the besetments I am most in danger from . 
It passes my cunning to know what you mean by ease and luxury , said Mrs. Poyser , as she cut the bread and butter . 
but look there ! There's Adam Bede a carrying the little un in . 
I wonder how it is he's come so early . 
Mrs. Poyser hastened to the door for the pleasure of looking at her darling in a new position , with love in her eyes but reproof on her tongue . 
Oh for shame , Totty ! Little gells o' five year old should be ashamed to be carried . 
Totty , looking as serenely unconscious of remark as a fat white puppy , was set down at the door place , and the mother enforced her reproof with a shower of kisses . 
You're surprised to see me at this hour o' the day , said Adam . 
She had laid down her work and stood up , instinctively , as he approached her . 
A faint blush died away from her pale cheek as she put her hand in his and looked up at him timidly . 
I told her I'd call and ask you as I came from the village . 
She overworks herself , and I can't persuade her to have a little girl t' help her . 
I don't know what's to be done . 
There's Mrs. Bede getting as old and cas'alty as can be , and she won't let anybody but you go a nigh her hardly . 
The folks at Snowfield have learnt by this time to do better wi'out you nor she can . 
I'll put my bonnet on and set off directly , if you don't want anything done first , Aunt , said Dinah , folding up her work . 
Yes , I do want something done . 
I want you t' have your tea , child it's all ready and you'll have a cup , Adam , if y' arena in too big a hurry . 
Yes , I'll have a cup , please and then I'll walk with Dinah . 
I'm going straight home , for I've got a lot o' timber valuations to write out . 
How is it we've got sight o' you so long before foddering time ? I came on an errand for Mother , said Adam . 
She's got a touch of her old complaint , and she wants Dinah to go and stay with her a bit . 
Well , we'll spare her for your mother a little while , said Mr. Poyser . 
But we wonna spare her for anybody else , on'y her husband . 
Husband ! said Marty , who was at the most prosaic and literal period of the boyish mind . 
Why , Dinah hasn't got a husband . 
Spare her ? said Mrs. Poyser , placing a seed cake on the table and then seating herself to pour out the tea . 
But we must spare her , it seems , and not for a husband neither , but for her own megrims . 
Tommy , what are you doing to your little sister's doll ? Making the child naughty , when she'd be good if you'd let her . 
You shanna have a morsel o' cake if you behave so . 
What do you think Dinah's been a telling me since dinner time ? Mrs. Poyser continued , looking at her husband . 
Eh ! I'm a poor un at guessing , said Mr. Poyser . 
Mr. Poyser thought she looked the prettier for it it was a flush no deeper than the petal of a monthly rose . 
I thought she'd given up the notion o' going back to her old country . 
Thought ! Yes , said Mrs. Poyser , and so would anybody else ha' thought , as had got their right end up'ards . 
But I suppose you must be a Methodist to know what a Methodist 'ull do . 
It's ill guessing what the bats are flying after . 
Why , what have we done to you . 
Dinah , as you must go away from us ? said Mr. Poyser , still pausing over his tea cup . 
It's like breaking your word , welly , for your aunt never had no thought but you'd make this your home . 
Nay , Uncle , said Dinah , trying to be quite calm . 
When I first came , I said it was only for a time , as long as I could be of any comfort to my aunt . 
Well , an' who said you'd ever left off being a comfort to me ? said Mrs. Poyser . 
If you didna mean to stay wi' me , you'd better never ha' come . 
Them as ha' never had a cushion don't miss it . 
Nay , nay , said Mr. Poyser , who objected to exaggerated views . 
Thee mustna say so we should ha' been ill off wi'out her , Lady day was a twelvemont' . 
We mun be thankful for that , whether she stays or no . 
Why , that's just the reason she wants to go , as fur as she can give a reason , said Mrs. Poyser . 
She says this country's too comfortable , an' there's too much t' eat , an' folks arena miserable enough . 
And she's going next week . 
I canna turn her , say what I will . 
It's allays the way wi' them meek faced people you may's well pelt a bag o' feathers as talk to 'em . 
I believe her thoughts are better than our guesses , let 'em be what they may . 
I should ha' been thankful for her to stay among us , but if she thinks well to go , I wouldn't cross her , or make it hard to her by objecting . 
We owe her something different to that . 
As it often happens , the words intended to relieve her were just too much for Dinah's susceptible feelings at this moment . 
The tears came into the grey eyes too fast to be hidden and she got up hurriedly , meaning it to be understood that she was going to put on her bonnet . 
Mother , what's Dinah crying for ? said Totty . 
She isn't a naughty dell . 
Thee'st gone a bit too fur , said Mr. Poyser . 
We've no right t' interfere with her doing as she likes . 
An' thee'dst be as angry as could be wi' me , if I said a word against anything she did . 
Because you'd very like be finding fault wi'out reason , said Mrs. Poyser . 
But there's reason i' what I say , else I shouldna say it . 
It's easy talking for them as can't love her so well as her own aunt does . 
An' me got so used to her ! I shall feel as uneasy as a new sheared sheep when she's gone from me . 
An' to think of her leaving a parish where she's so looked on . 
Aye , said Mr. Poyser , looking jocose but thee dostna tell Adam what he said to thee about it one day . 
I'll answer for it , you give Poyser many a good sermon . 
The parson had thee there , Mr. Poyser added , laughing unctuously . 
I told Bartle Massey on it , an' he laughed too . 
Yes , it's a small joke sets men laughing when they sit a staring at one another with a pipe i' their mouths , said Mrs. Poyser . 
Give Bartle Massey his way and he'd have all the sharpness to himself . 
If the chaff cutter had the making of us , we should all be straw , I reckon . 
Totty , my chicken , go upstairs to cousin Dinah , and see what she's doing , and give her a pretty kiss . 
You're rare and busy now eh , Adam ? said Mr. Poyser . 
Burge's getting so bad wi' his asthmy , it's well if he'll ever do much riding about again . 
Yes , we've got a pretty bit o' building on hand now , said Adam , what with the repairs on th' estate , and the new houses at Treddles'on . 
I'll bet a penny that new house Burge is building on his own bit o' land is for him and Mary to go to , said Mr. Poyser . 
He'll be for laying by business soon , I'll warrant , and be wanting you to take to it all and pay him so much by th' 'ear . 
We shall see you living on th' hill before another twelvemont's over . 
Well , said Adam , I should like t' have the business in my own hands . 
It isn't as I mind much about getting any more money . 
You get on pretty well wi' the new steward , I reckon ? said Mr. Poyser . 
Yes , yes he's a sensible man enough understands farming he's carrying on the draining , and all that , capital . 
You must go some day towards the Stonyshire side and see what alterations they're making . 
But he's got no notion about buildings . 
Adam rose too , for he saw Dinah entering , with her bonnet on and a little basket in her hand , preceded by Totty . 
You're ready , I see , Dinah , Adam said so we'll set off , for the sooner I'm at home the better . 
Mother , said Totty , with her treble pipe , Dinah was saying her prayers and crying ever so . 
Hush , hush , said the mother , little gells mustn't chatter . 
Whereupon the father , shaking with silent laughter , set Totty on the white deal table and desired her to kiss him . 
Mr. and Mrs. Poyser , you perceive , had no correct principles of education . 
Come back to morrow if Mrs. Bede doesn't want you , Dinah , said Mrs. Poyser but you can stay , you know , if she's ill . 
So , when the good byes had been said , Dinah and Adam left the Hall Farm together . 
Chapter L In the Cottage ADAM did not ask Dinah to take his arm when they got out into the lane . 
So they walked apart , though side by side , and the close poke of her little black bonnet hid her face from him . 
It's a pity , seeing they're so fond of you . 
You know , Adam , my heart is as their heart , so far as love for them and care for their welfare goes , but they are in no present need . 
But now , I believe , I have a clear showing that my work lies elsewhere at least for a time . 
In the years to come , if my aunt's health should fail , or she should otherwise need me , I shall return . 
You know best , Dinah , said Adam . 
I don't believe you'd go against the wishes of them that love you , and are akin to you , without a good and sufficient reason in your own conscience . 
But Seth tells me there's no hope o' that your feelings are different , and perhaps I'm taking too much upon me to speak about it . 
She looked as if she were only sister to Dinah . 
Adam was silent with surprise and conjecture for some moments , and then he said , I hope I've not hurt or displeased you by what I've said , Dinah . 
Perhaps I was making too free . 
I've no wish different from what you see to be best , and I'm satisfied for you to live thirty mile off , if you think it right . 
I shall think of you just as much as I do now , for you're bound up with what I can no more help remembering than I can help my heart beating . 
Poor Adam ! Thus do men blunder . 
Mr. Irwine read me part of a letter from him yesterday . 
It's pretty certain , they say , that there'll be a peace soon , though nobody believes it'll last long but he says he doesn't mean to come home . 
He's no heart for it yet , and it's better for others that he should keep away . 
Mr. Irwine thinks he's in the right not to come . 
He asks about you and the Poysers , as he always does . 
There's one thing in the letter cut me a good deal 'You can't think what an old fellow I feel , he says 'I make no schemes now . 
I'm the best when I've a good day's march or fighting before me . 
He's of a rash , warm hearted nature , like Esau , for whom I have always felt great pity , said Dinah . 
Truly , I have been tempted sometimes to say that Jacob was of a mean spirit . 
But that is our trial we must learn to see the good in the midst of much that is unlovely . 
Ah , said Adam , I like to read about Moses best , in th' Old Testament . 
He carried a hard business well through , and died when other folks were going to reap the fruits . 
A man must have courage to look at his life so , and think what'll come of it after he's dead and gone . 
A good solid bit o' work lasts if it's only laying a floor down , somebody's the better for it being done well , besides the man as does it . 
I thought he'd be home soon . 
Does he know of you're going , Dinah ? Yes , I told him last Sabbath . 
This evening he had his habitual air of dreamy benignant contentment , until he came quite close to Dinah and saw the traces of tears on her delicate eyelids and eyelashes . 
He gave one rapid glance at his brother , but Adam was evidently quite outside the current of emotion that had shaken Dinah he wore his everyday look of unexpectant calm . 
She began to talk of you the first thing in the morning . 
Coom , child , thee't coom at last , she said , when Dinah went towards her . 
What dost mane by lavin' me a week an' ne'er coomin' a nigh me ? Dear friend , said Dinah , taking her hand , you're not well . 
If I'd known it sooner , I'd have come . 
An' how's thee t' know if thee dostna coom ? Th' lads on'y know what I tell 'em . 
As long as ye can stir hand and foot the men think ye're hearty . 
But I'm none so bad , on'y a bit of a cold sets me achin' . 
An' th' lads tease me so t' ha' somebody wi' me t' do the work they make me ache worse wi' talkin' . 
If thee'dst come and stay wi' me , they'd let me alone . 
The Poysers canna want thee so bad as I do . 
But take thy bonnet off , an' let me look at thee . 
What's the matter wi' thee ? said Lisbeth , in astonishment thee'st been a cryin' . 
It's only a grief that'll pass away , said Dinah , who did not wish just now to call forth Lisbeth's remonstrances by disclosing her intention to leave Hayslope . 
You shall know about it shortly we'll talk of it to night . 
I shall stay with you to night . 
Lisbeth was pacified by this prospect . 
Seth sat there too this evening , for he knew his mother would like to have Dinah all to herself . 
There were two pretty pictures on the two sides of the wall in the cottage . 
She would scarcely listen to reading at all to night . 
Nay , nay , shut the book , she said . 
I want t' know what thee was cryin' about . 
Seth had said to Adam , Can I help thee with anything in here to night ? I don't want to make a noise in the shop . 
No , lad , Adam answered , there's nothing but what I must do myself . 
Thee'st got thy new book to read . 
It was part of that growing tenderness which came from the sorrow at work within him . 
Do any of us ? God forbid . 
Not that this transformation of pain into sympathy had completely taken place in Adam yet . 
But we get accustomed to mental as well as bodily pain , without , for all that , losing our sensibility to it . 
It becomes a habit of our lives , and we cease to imagine a condition of perfect ease as possible for us . 
Desire is chastened into submission , and we are contented with our day when we have been able to bear our grief in silence and act as if we were not suffering . 
That was Adam's state of mind in this second autumn of his sorrow . 
He conceived no picture of the future but one made up of hard working days such as he lived through , with growing contentment and intensity of interest , every fresh week . 
Love , he thought , could never be anything to him but a living memory a limb lopped off , but not gone from consciousness . 
The Poysers , too hardly three or four days passed but he felt the need of seeing them and interchanging words and looks of friendliness with them . 
Could anything be more natural ? For in the darkest moments of memory the thought of her always came as the first ray of returning comfort . 
Yes , there was one thing that might have been better she might have loved Seth and consented to marry him . 
It's wonderful she doesn't love th' lad , Adam had said sometimes to himself , for anybody 'ud think he was just cut out for her . 
But her heart's so taken up with other things . 
She's one o' those women that feel no drawing towards having a husband and children o' their own . 
I see how it is , well enough . 
She's cut out o' different stuff from most women I saw that long ago . 
She's never easy but when she's helping somebody , and marriage 'ud interfere with her ways that's true . 
He felt sure she knew quite well enough how much he cared to see her continually to talk to her with the silent consciousness of a mutual great remembrance . 
Dinah must have risen a little before the sun the next morning , for she was downstairs about five o'clock . 
Adam , who had sat up late at his writing , was still asleep , and was not likely , Seth said , to be down till breakfast time . 
The cottage was far from that standard at present , for Lisbeth's rheumatism had forced her to give up her old habits of dilettante scouring and polishing . 
When the kitchen was to her mind , Dinah went into the new room , where Adam had been writing the night before , to see what sweeping and dusting were needed there . 
Speak to my warring passions , Peace ! Say to my trembling heart , Be still ! Thy power my strength and fortress is , For all things serve thy sovereign will . 
Dinah dusted up to the very edge of these and then hesitated , looking at them with a longing but timid eye . 
It was painful to see how much dust there was among them . 
It was as if Dinah had put her hands unawares on a vibrating chord . 
What ! You think I'm a cross fellow at home , Dinah ? he said , smilingly . 
Nay , said Dinah , looking up with timid eyes , not so . 
But you might be put about by finding things meddled with and even the man Moses , the meekest of men , was wrathful sometimes . 
Come , then , said Adam , looking at her affectionately , I'll help you move the things , and put 'em back again , and then they can't get wrong . 
You're getting to be your aunt's own niece , I see , for particularness . 
They began their little task together , but Dinah had not recovered herself sufficiently to think of any remark , and Adam looked at her uneasily . 
Dinah , he thought , had seemed to disapprove him somehow lately she had not been so kind and open to him as she used to be . 
He wanted her to look at him , and be as pleased as he was himself with doing this bit of playful work . 
And you don't know the value I set on the very thought of you , Dinah . 
That was what I meant yesterday , when I said I'd be content for you to go , if you thought right . 
You must not mark me . 
I feel called to leave my kindred for a while but it is a trial the flesh is weak . 
Adam saw that it pained her to be obliged to answer . 
I hurt you by talking about it , Dinah , he said . 
Let's see if Seth's ready with breakfast now . 
That is a simple scene , reader . 
It is only that they happen to be the signs of something unspeakably great and beautiful . 
For a long while , Dinah had said , for she had told Lisbeth of her resolve . 
Then it'll be for all my life , an' I shall ne'er see thee again , said Lisbeth . 
Long while ! I'n got no long while t' live . 
An' I shall be took bad an' die , an' thee canst ne'er come a nigh me , an' I shall die a longing for thee . 
That had been the key note of her wailing talk all day for Adam was not in the house , and so she put no restraint on her complaining . 
Thee couldstna put up wi' Seth , she said . 
But happen , thee'dst like a husband better as isna just the cut o' thysen the runnin' brook isna athirst for th' rain . 
Adam 'ud ha' done for thee I know he would an' he might come t' like thee well enough , if thee'dst stop . 
But he's as stubborn as th' iron bar there's no bending him no way but's own . 
But he'd be a fine husband for anybody , be they who they will , so looked on an' so cliver as he is . 
And he'd be rare an' lovin' it does me good on'y a look o' the lad's eye when he means kind tow'rt me . 
The God of love and peace be with them , Dinah prayed , as she looked back from the last stile . 
Make them glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted them , and the years wherein they have seen evil . 
It is thy will that I should part from them let me have no will but thine . 
Thee't see her again o' Sunday afore she goes , were her first words . 
If thee wast good for anything , thee'dst make her come in again o' Sunday night wi' thee , and see me once more . 
Nay , Mother , said Seth . 
Dinah 'ud be sure to come again if she saw right to come . 
I should have no need to persuade her . 
She only thinks it 'ud be troubling thee for nought , just to come in to say good bye over again . 
She'd ne'er go away , I know , if Adam 'ud be fond on her an' marry her , but everything's so contrairy , said Lisbeth , with a burst of vexation . 
Seth paused a moment and looked up , with a slight blush , at his mother's face . 
What ! Has she said anything o' that sort to thee , Mother ? he said , in a lower tone . 
Said ? Nay , she'll say nothin' . 
It's on'y the men as have to wait till folks say things afore they find 'em out . 
Well , but what makes thee think so , Mother ? What's put it into thy head ? It's no matter what's put it into my head . 
My head's none so hollow as it must get in , an' nought to put it there . 
I know she's fond on him , as I know th' wind's comin' in at the door , an' that's anoof . 
An' he might be willin' to marry her if he know'd she's fond on him , but he'll ne'er think on't if somebody doesna put it into's head . 
His mother's suggestion about Dinah's feeling towards Adam was not quite a new thought to Seth , but her last words alarmed him , lest she should herself undertake to open Adam's eyes . 
He was not sure about Dinah's feeling , and he thought he was sure about Adam's . 
Nay , Mother , nay , he said , earnestly , thee mustna think o' speaking o' such things to Adam . 
Thee'st no right to say what Dinah's feelings are if she hasna told thee , and it 'ud do nothing but mischief to say such things to Adam . 
I don't think she'll marry at all . 
Eh , said Lisbeth , impatiently . 
Thee think'st so 'cause she wouldna ha' thee . 
She'll ne'er marry thee thee mightst as well like her t' ha' thy brother . 
Mother , he said , in a remonstrating tone , don't think that of me . 
I should be as thankful t' have her for a sister as thee wouldst t' have her for a daughter . 
I've no more thoughts about myself in that thing , and I shall take it hard if ever thee say'st it again . 
Well , well , then thee shouldstna cross me wi' sayin' things arena as I say they are . 
But , Mother , said Seth , thee'dst be doing Dinah a wrong by telling Adam what thee think'st about her . 
It 'ud do nothing but mischief , for it 'ud make Adam uneasy if he doesna feel the same to her . 
And I'm pretty sure he feels nothing o' the sort . 
Eh , donna tell me what thee't sure on thee know'st nought about it . 
What's he allays goin' to the Poysers' for , if he didna want t' see her ? He goes twice where he used t' go once . 
Happen he knowsna as he wants t' see her he knowsna as I put salt in's broth , but he'd miss it pretty quick if it warna there . 
Nay , Mother , said Seth , thee mustna think me unkind , but I should be going against my conscience if I took upon me to say what Dinah's feelings are . 
And besides that , I think I should give offence to Adam by speaking to him at all about marrying and I counsel thee not to do't . 
Thee may'st be quite deceived about Dinah . 
Nay , I'm pretty sure , by words she said to me last Sabbath , as she's no mind to marry . 
Eh , thee't as contrairy as the rest on 'em . 
If it war summat I didna want , it 'ud be done fast enough . 
Lisbeth rose from the bench at this , and went out of the workshop , leaving Seth in much anxiety lest she should disturb Adam's mind about Dinah . 
Even if she did , he hoped Adam would not take much notice of what she said . 
And on Sunday morning , when Seth went away to chapel at Treddleston , the dangerous opportunity came . 
You would have liked to see Adam reading his Bible . 
He never opened it on a weekday , and so he came to it as a holiday book , serving him for history , biography , and poetry . 
For Adam knew the Articles quite well , as became a good churchman . 
This morning he was reading the Gospel according to St . 
Eh , Gyp wants me t' look at him . 
He can't abide to think I love thee the best . 
Lisbeth said nothing , because she wanted to say so many things . 
Adam smiled , and , looking more intently at the angel's face , said , It is a bit like her but Dinah's prettier , I think . 
Well , then , if thee think'st her so pretty , why arn't fond on her ? Adam looked up in surprise . 
What's th' use o' settin' store by things as are thirty mile off ? If thee wast fond enough on her , thee wouldstna let her go away . 
But I've no right t' hinder her , if she thinks well , said Adam , looking at his book as if he wanted to go on reading . 
He foresaw a series of complaints tending to nothing . 
Lisbeth sat down again in the chair opposite to him , as she said But she wouldna think well if thee wastna so contrairy . 
Lisbeth dared not venture beyond a vague phrase yet . 
Contrairy , mother ? Adam said , looking up again in some anxiety . 
I canna see what thee't driving at . 
Is there anything I could do for thee as I don't do ? Aye , an' that there is . 
Thee might'st do as I should ha' somebody wi' me to comfort me a bit , an' wait on me when I'm bad , an' be good to me . 
We can afford it I've told thee often enough . 
It 'ud be a deal better for us . 
Adam was silent , and tried to go on reading . 
That was the utmost severity he could show towards his mother on a Sunday morning . 
But Lisbeth had gone too far now to check herself , and after scarcely a minute's quietness she began again . 
Thee mightst know well enough who 'tis I'd like t' ha' wi' me . 
It isna many folks I send for t' come an' see me . 
An' thee'st had the fetchin' on her times enow . 
Thee mean'st Dinah , Mother , I know , said Adam . 
But it's no use setting thy mind on what can't be . 
Thee must try and make up thy mind to do without her . 
What's it sinnify about her bein' a Methody ! It 'ud happen wear out on her wi' marryin' . 
Adam threw himself back in his chair and looked at his mother . 
He understood now what she had been aiming at from the beginning of the conversation . 
It was as unreasonable , impracticable a wish as she had ever urged , but he could not help being moved by so entirely new an idea . 
The chief point , however , was to chase away the notion from his mother's mind as quickly as possible . 
Mother , he said , gravely , thee't talking wild . 
Don't let me hear thee say such things again . 
It's no good talking o' what can never be . 
Dinah's not for marrying she's fixed her heart on a different sort o' life . 
Very like , said Lisbeth , impatiently , very like she's none for marr'ing , when them as she'd be willin' t' marry wonna ax her . 
I shouldna ha' been for marr'ing thy feyther if he'd ne'er axed me an' she's as fond o' thee as e'er I war o' Thias , poor fellow . 
The blood rushed to Adam's face , and for a few moments he was not quite conscious where he was . 
His mother and the kitchen had vanished for him , and he saw nothing but Dinah's face turned up towards his . 
It seemed as if there were a resurrection of his dead joy . 
, for it would have been very foolish in him to believe his mother's words she could have no ground for them . 
He was prompted to express his disbelief very strongly perhaps that he might call forth the proofs , if there were any to be offered . 
What dost say such things for , Mother , when thee'st got no foundation for 'em ? Thee know'st nothing as gives thee a right to say that . 
Then I knowna nought as gi'es me a right to say as the year's turned , for all I feel it fust thing when I get up i' th' morning . 
Thee think'st thy mother knows nought , but she war alive afore thee wast born . 
But thee canstna be sure as the trembling means love ? said Adam anxiously . 
Eh , what else should it mane ? It isna hate , I reckon . 
Adam had thrust his hands in his pockets , and was looking down at the book on the table , without seeing any of the letters . 
He was trembling like a gold seeker who sees the strong promise of gold but sees in the same moment a sickening vision of disappointment . 
He could not trust his mother's insight she had seen what she wished to see . 
Lisbeth noticed that he was moved . 
She went on , An' thee't find out as thee't poorly aff when she's gone . 
Thee't fonder on her nor thee know'st . 
Thy eyes follow her about , welly as Gyp's follow thee . 
Adam could sit still no longer . 
He rose , took down his hat , and went out into the fields . 
Strange , that till that moment the possibility of their ever being lovers had never crossed his mind , and yet now , all his longing suddenly went out towards that possibility . 
He had no more doubt or hesitation as to his own wishes than the bird that flies towards the opening through which the daylight gleams and the breath of heaven enters . 
The autumnal Sunday sunshine soothed him , but not by preparing him with resignation to the disappointment if his mother if he himself proved to be mistaken about Dinah . 
It soothed him by gentle encouragement of his hopes . 
Her love was so like that calm sunshine that they seemed to make one presence to him , and he believed in them both alike . 
And Dinah was so bound up with the sad memories of his first passion that he was not forsaking them , but rather giving them a new sacredness by loving her . 
Nay , his love for her had grown out of that past it was the noon of that morning . 
But had he seen anything of what their mother talked about ? Adam longed to know this , for he thought he could trust Seth's observation better than his mother's . 
He isna gone to Treddles'on . 
He's gone somewhere else a preachin' and a prayin' . 
Hast any notion which way he's gone ? said Adam . 
Nay , but he aften goes to th' Common . 
Thee know'st more o's goings nor I do . 
Adam wanted to go and meet Seth , but he must content himself with walking about the near fields and getting sight of him as soon as possible . 
That would not be for more than an hour to come , for Seth would scarcely be at home much before their dinner time , which was twelve o'clock . 
At last , there was Seth , visible at the farthest stile , and Adam hastened to meet him . 
Seth was surprised , and thought something unusual must have happened , but when Adam came up , his face said plainly enough that it was nothing alarming . 
Where hast been ? said Adam , when they were side by side . 
I've been to the Common , said Seth . 
Dinah's been speaking the Word to a little company of hearers at Brimstone's , as they call him . 
They're folks as never go to church hardly them on the Common but they'll go and hear Dinah a bit . 
She's been speaking with power this forenoon from the words , 'I came not to call the righteous , but sinners to repentance . 
And there was a little thing happened as was pretty to see . 
The women mostly bring their children with 'em , but to day there was one stout curly headed fellow about three or four year old , that I never saw there before . 
It's a pity she shouldna be a mother herself , said Adam , so fond as the children are of her . 
It 'ud be wrong of me to say nothing 'ud turn her , he answered . 
But if thee mean'st it about myself , I've given up all thoughts as she can ever be my wife . 
She calls me her brother , and that's enough . 
But dost think she might ever get fond enough of anybody else to be willing to marry 'em ? said Adam rather shyly . 
If she thought the leading was not from Him , she's not one to be brought under the power of it . 
And she's allays seemed clear about that as her work was to minister t' others , and make no home for herself i' this world . 
Other women of her sort have married that's to say , not just like her , but women as preached and attended on the sick and needy . 
There's Mrs. Fletcher as she talks of . 
A new light had broken in on Seth . 
But is it o' any use to think of her ? said Adam . 
What dost say ? Mother's made me as I hardly know where I am , with what she's been saying to me this forenoon . 
She says she's sure Dinah feels for me more than common , and 'ud be willing t' have me . 
But I'm afraid she speaks without book . 
I want to know if thee'st seen anything . 
It's a nice point to speak about , said Seth , and I'm afraid o' being wrong besides , we've no right t' intermeddle with people's feelings when they wouldn't tell 'em themselves . 
But thee mightst ask her , he said presently . 
She took no offence at me for asking , and thee'st more right than I had , only thee't not in the Society . 
But Dinah doesn't hold wi' them as are for keeping the Society so strict to themselves . 
She doesn't mind about making folks enter the Society , so as they're fit t' enter the kingdom o' God . 
Some o' the brethren at Treddles'on are displeased with her for that . 
Where will she be the rest o' the day ? said Adam . 
Adam thought but did not say Then I'll go this afternoon for if I go to church , my thoughts 'ull be with her all the while . 
They must sing th' anthem without me to day . 
Chapter LII Adam and Dinah IT was about three o'clock when Adam entered the farmyard and roused Alick and the dogs from their Sunday dozing . 
There was perfect stillness about the house . 
The doors were all closed , and the very stones and tubs seemed quieter than usual . 
Adam heard the water gently dripping from the pump that was the only sound and he knocked at the house door rather softly , as was suitable in that stillness . 
Yesterday he would have said to her without any difficulty , I came to see you , Dinah I knew the rest were not at home . 
But to day something prevented him from saying that , and he put out his hand to her in silence . 
Neither of them spoke , and yet both wished they could speak , as Adam entered , and they sat down . 
She had been sitting perfectly still , looking at the small bit of clear fire in the bright grate . 
Adam sat down opposite her , in Mr. Poyser's three cornered chair . 
Your mother is not ill again , I hope , Adam ? Dinah said , recovering herself . 
Seth said she was well this morning . 
No , she's very hearty to day , said Adam , happy in the signs of Dinah's feeling at the sight of him , but shy . 
There's nobody at home , you see , Dinah said but you'll wait . 
You've been hindered from going to church to day , doubtless . 
Yes , Adam said , and then paused , before he added , I was thinking about you that was the reason . 
This confession was very awkward and sudden , Adam felt , for he thought Dinah must understand all he meant . 
I have all things and abound at Snowfield . 
And my mind is at rest , for I am not seeking my own will in going . 
But if things were different , Dinah , said Adam , hesitatingly . 
If you knew things that perhaps you don't know now . 
Dinah looked at him inquiringly , but instead of going on , he reached a chair and brought it near the corner of the table where she was sitting . 
She wondered , and was afraid and the next moment her thoughts flew to the past was it something about those distant unhappy ones that she didn't know ? Adam looked at her . 
Dinah , he said suddenly , taking both her hands between his , I love you with my whole heart and soul . 
I love you next to God who made me . 
Dinah's lips became pale , like her cheeks , and she trembled violently under the shock of painful joy . 
Her hands were cold as death between Adam's . 
She could not draw them away , because he held them fast . 
Don't tell me you can't love me , Dinah . 
Don't tell me we must part and pass our lives away from one another . 
The tears were trembling in Dinah's eyes , and they fell before she could answer . 
But she spoke in a quiet low voice . 
Yes , dear Adam , we must submit to another Will . 
Not if you love me , Dinah not if you love me , Adam said passionately . 
Tell me tell me if you can love me better than a brother ? Dinah was too entirely reliant on the Supreme guidance to attempt to achieve any end by a deceptive concealment . 
I fear I should forget to rejoice and weep with others nay , I fear I should forget the Divine presence , and seek no love but yours . 
Adam did not speak immediately . 
They sat looking at each other in delicious silence for the first sense of mutual love excludes other feelings it will have the soul all to itself . 
I'd never think o' putting myself between you and God , and saying you oughtn't to do this and you oughtn't to do that . 
You'd follow your conscience as much as you do now . 
For in all other affection I had been content with any small return , or with none but my heart was beginning to hunger after an equal love from you . 
And I had no doubt that I must wrestle against that as a great temptation , and the command was clear that I must go away . 
But now , dear , dear Dinah , now you know I love you better than you love me . 
You won't think o' going . 
You'll stay , and be my dear wife , and I shall thank God for giving me my life as I never thanked him before . 
Adam , it's hard to me to turn a deaf ear . 
you know it's hard but a great fear is upon me . 
Dinah had closed her eyes , and a faint shudder went through her . 
Adam , she went on , you wouldn't desire that we should seek a good through any unfaithfulness to the light that is in us you wouldn't believe that could be a good . 
We are of one mind in that . 
Yes , Dinah , said Adam sadly , I'll never be the man t' urge you against your conscience . 
But I can't give up the hope that you may come to see different . 
I don't believe your loving me could shut up your heart it's only adding to what you've been before , not taking away from it . 
The more knowledge a man has , the better he'll do's work and feeling's a sort o' knowledge . 
Dinah was silent her eyes were fixed in contemplation of something visible only to herself . 
Adam went on presently with his pleading , And you can do almost as much as you do now . 
I won't ask you to go to church with me of a Sunday . 
Surely , Dinah , you'd be as near to God as if you was living lonely and away from me . 
Dinah made no answer for some time . 
I have felt as it were a division in my heart . 
And think how it is with me , Adam . 
I must wait for clearer guidance . 
I must go from you , and we must submit ourselves entirely to the Divine Will . 
We are sometimes required to lay our natural lawful affections on the altar . 
Adam dared not plead again , for Dinah's was not the voice of caprice or insincerity . 
But it was very hard for him his eyes got dim as he looked at her . 
But you may come to feel satisfied . 
to feel that you may come to me again , and we may never part , Dinah ? We must submit ourselves , Adam . 
With time , our duty will be made clear . 
It may be when I have entered on my former life , I shall find all these new thoughts and wishes vanish , and become as things that were not . 
Then I shall know that my calling is not towards marriage . 
Dinah , said Adam mournfully , you can't love me so well as I love you , else you'd have no doubts . 
But it's natural you shouldn't , for I'm not so good as you . 
I can't doubt it's right for me to love the best thing God's ever given me to know . 
If the thought of you took slight hold of me , I should not fear that it would be an idol in the temple . 
But you will strengthen me you will not hinder me in seeking to obey to the uttermost . 
Let us go out into the sunshine , Dinah , and walk together . 
I'll speak no word to disturb you . 
They went out and walked towards the fields , where they would meet the family coming from church . 
Adam said , Take my arm , Dinah , and she took it . 
That was the only change in their manner to each other since they were last walking together . 
But no sadness in the prospect of her going away in the uncertainty of the issue could rob the sweetness from Adam's sense that Dinah loved him . 
He thought he would stay at the Hall Farm all that evening . 
He would be near her as long as he could . 
Hey day ! There's Adam along wi' Dinah , said Mr. Poyser , as he opened the far gate into the Home Close . 
I couldna think how he happened away from church . 
You mean as Adam's fond o' Dinah . 
Aye ! hast ever had any notion of it before ? To be sure I have , said Mrs. Poyser , who always declined , if possible , to be taken by surprise . 
I'm not one o' those as can see the cat i' the dairy an' wonder what she's come after . 
Thee never saidst a word to me about it . 
Well , I aren't like a bird clapper , forced to make a rattle when the wind blows on me . 
I can keep my own counsel when there's no good i' speaking . 
But Dinah 'll ha' none o' him . 
It 'ud ha' been a pretty thing though for 'em t' marry , said Martin , turning his head on one side , as if in pleased contemplation of his new idea . 
Thee'dst ha' liked it too , wouldstna ? Ah ! I should . 
There may well be streaky butter i' the market . 
An' she makes one feel safer when she's i' the house , for she's like the driven snow anybody might sin for two as had her at their elbow . 
Dinah , said Tommy , running forward to meet her , mother says you'll never marry anybody but a Methodist cripple . 
What a silly you must be ! a comment which Tommy followed up by seizing Dinah with both arms , and dancing along by her side with incommodious fondness . 
Why , Adam , we missed you i' the singing to day , said Mr. Poyser . 
How was it ? I wanted to see Dinah she's going away so soon , said Adam . 
Ah , lad ! Can you persuade her to stop somehow ? Find her a good husband somewhere i' the parish . 
If you'll do that , we'll forgive you for missing church . 
But , anyway , she isna going before the harvest supper o' Wednesday , and you must come then . 
There's Bartle Massey comin' , an' happen Craig . 
You'll be sure an' come , now , at seven ? The missis wunna have it a bit later . 
Aye , said Adam , I'll come if I can . 
But I can't often say what I'll do beforehand , for the work often holds me longer than I expect . 
You'll stay till the end o' the week , Dinah ? Yes , yes ! said Mr. Poyser . 
She's no call to be in a hurry , observed Mrs. Poyser . 
Scarceness o' victual 'ull keep there's no need to be hasty wi' the cooking . 
An' scarceness is what there's the biggest stock of i' that country . 
Ingenious philosophers tell you , perhaps , that the great work of the steam engine is to create leisure for mankind . 
Do not believe them it only creates a vacuum for eager thought to rush in . 
Even idleness is eager now eager for amusement prone to excursion trains , art museums , periodical literature , and exciting novels prone even to scientific theorizing and cursory peeps through microscopes . 
Old Leisure was quite a different personage . 
He only read one newspaper , innocent of leaders , and was free from that periodicity of sensations which we call post time . 
Life was not a task to him , but a sinecure . 
He never went to Exeter Hall , or heard a popular preacher , or read Tracts for the Times or Sartor Resartus . 
Fainter and fainter , and more musical through the growing distance , the falling dying sound still reached him , as he neared the Willow Brook . 
It was enough to make Adam feel that he was in a great temple , and that the distant chant was a sacred song . 
I suppose it's a bit hard to us to think anything's over and gone in our lives and there's a parting at the root of all our joys . 
It's like what I feel about Dinah . 
And Mr. Poyser , at the head of the table , was too busy with his carving to listen to Bartle Massey's or Mr. Craig's ready talk . 
It's a poor tale you couldn't come to see the pudding when it was whole . 
Adam looked anxiously round for a fourth woman's figure , but Dinah was not there . 
Martin Poyser had some faint conception of the flavour such men must find in hot roast beef and fresh drawn ale . 
Martin Poyser's large person shook with his silent unctuous laugh . 
He turned towards Mrs. Poyser to see if she too had been observant of Tom , and the eyes of husband and wife met in a glance of good natured amusement . 
Tom Saft was a great favourite on the farm , where he played the part of the old jester , and made up for his practical deficiencies by his success in repartee . 
His hits , I imagine , were those of the flail , which falls quite at random , but nevertheless smashes an insect now and then . 
Tom excepted , Martin Poyser had some pride in his servants and labourers , thinking with satisfaction that they were the best worth their pay of any set on the estate . 
, the old man with the close leather cap and the network of wrinkles on his sun browned face . 
It is true Kester's knees were much bent outward by this time , and he walked with a perpetual curtsy , as if he were among the , most reverent of men . 
And so he was but I am obliged to admit that the object of his reverence was his own skill , towards which he performed some rather affecting acts of worship . 
I am not ashamed of commemorating old Kester . 
When Tityrus and Meliboeus happen to be on the same farm , they are not sentimentally polite to each other . 
Alick , indeed , was not by any means a honeyed man . 
Good tempered Tim , the waggoner , who loved his horses , had his grudge against Alick in the matter of corn . 
The bucolic character at Hayslope , you perceive , was not of that entirely genial , merry , broad grinning sort , apparently observed in most districts visited by artists . 
The mild radiance of a smile was a rare sight on a field labourer's face , and there was seldom any gradation between bovine gravity and a laugh . 
Nor was every labourer so honest as our friend Alick . 
NOW , the great ceremony of the evening was to begin the harvest song , in which every man must join . 
He might be in tune , if he liked to be singular , but he must not sit with closed lips . 
The movement was obliged to be in triple time the rest was ad libitum . 
Others , however , may rather maintain that this very iteration is an original felicity , to which none but the most prosaic minds can be insensible . 
The ceremony connected with the song was a drinking ceremony . 
During the first and second quatrain , sung decidedly forte , no can was filled . 
Then drink , boys , drink ! And see ye do not spill , For if ye do , ye shall drink two , For 'tis our master's will . 
interfered to prevent the exaction of the penalty . 
When Bartle re entered , however , there appeared to be a general desire for solo music after the choral . 
Tim looked sheepish , tucked down his head , and said he couldn't sing , but this encouraging invitation of the master's was echoed all round the table . 
It was a conversational opportunity everybody could say , Come , Tim , except Alick , who never relaxed into the frivolity of unnecessary speech . 
A good tempered waggoner's patience has limits , and Tim was not to be urged further . 
Well , then , David , ye're the lad to sing , said Ben , willing to show that he was not discomfited by this check . 
Sing 'My loove's a roos wi'out a thorn . 
And for some time the company appeared to be much in earnest about the desire to hear David's song . 
The lyricism of the evening was in the cellar at present , and was not to be drawn from that retreat just yet . 
Meanwhile the conversation at the head of the table had taken a political turn . 
Mr. Craig was not above talking politics occasionally , though he piqued himself rather on a wise insight than on specific information . 
He saw so far beyond the mere facts of a case that really it was superfluous to know them . 
He's full o' this peace now , as they talk on he's been reading and reading , and thinks he's got to the bottom on't . 
'Why , Lor' bless you , Mills , says I , 'you see no more into this thing nor you can see into the middle of a potato . 
I'll tell you what it is you think it'll be a fine thing for the country . 
And I'm not again' it mark my words I'm not again' it . 
Aye , aye , said Martin Poyser , listening with an air of much intelligence and edification , they ne'er ate a bit o' beef i' their lives . 
Mostly sallet , I reckon . 
He might take on Billy Pitt again if he liked but I don't see myself what we want wi' anybody besides King and Parliament . 
It's that nest o' ministers does the mischief , I tell you . 
Ah , it's fine talking , observed Mrs. Poyser , who was now seated near her husband , with Totty on her lap it's fine talking . 
It's hard work to tell which is Old Harry when everybody's got boots on . 
What can you do better nor fight 'em ? Ye're partly right there , Poyser , said Mr. Craig , but I'm not again' the peace to make a holiday for a bit . 
We can break it when we like , an' I'm in no fear o' Bony , for all they talk so much o' his cliverness . 
That's what I says to Mills this morning . 
Lor' bless you , he sees no more through Bony ! . 
why , I put him up to more in three minutes than he gets from's paper all the year round . 
Says I , 'Am I a gardener as knows his business , or arn't I , Mills ? Answer me that . 
'To be sure y' are , Craig , says he he's not a bad fellow , Mills isn't , for a butler , but weak i' the head . 
'Well , I says , 'that's just what it is wi' Bony . 
Come , Craig , said Adam , that's a little too strong . 
It's all nonsense about the French being such poor sticks . 
Mr. Irwine's seen 'em in their own country , and he says they've plenty o' fine fellows among 'em . 
And as for knowledge , and contrivances , and manufactures , there's a many things as we're a fine sight behind 'em in . 
It's poor foolishness to run down your enemies . 
Why , Nelson and the rest of 'em 'ud have no merit i' beating 'em , if they were such offal as folks pretend . 
Mr. Poyser looked doubtfully at Mr. Craig , puzzled by this opposition of authorities . 
Mr. Irwine's testimony was not to be disputed but , on the other hand , Craig was a knowing fellow , and his view was less startling . 
Martin had never heard tell of the French being good for much . 
The anthem went limping without you . 
Are you going to disgrace your schoolmaster in his old age ? No , Mr. Massey , said Adam . 
Mr. and Mrs. Poyser can tell you where I was . 
I was in no bad company . 
She's gone , Adam gone to Snowfield , said Mr. Poyser , reminded of Dinah for the first time this evening . 
I thought you'd ha' persuaded her better . 
Nought 'ud hold her , but she must go yesterday forenoon . 
The missis has hardly got over it . 
I thought she'd ha' no sperrit for th' harvest supper . 
Mrs. Poyser had thought of Dinah several times since Adam had come in , but she had had no heart to mention the bad news . 
What ! said Bartle , with an air of disgust . 
Was there a woman concerned ? Then I give you up , Adam . 
But it's a woman you'n spoke well on , Bartle , said Mr. Poyser . 
Come now , you canna draw back you said once as women wouldna ha' been a bad invention if they'd all been like Dinah . 
I meant her voice , man I meant her voice , that was all , said Bartle . 
I can bear to hear her speak without wanting to put wool in my ears . 
As for other things , I daresay she's like the rest o' the women thinks two and two 'll come to make five , if she cries and bothers enough about it . 
They can see through a barn door , they can . 
Perhaps that's the reason THEY can see so little o' this side on't . 
Martin Poyser shook with delighted laughter and winked at Adam , as much as to say the schoolmaster was in for it now . 
Ah ! said Bartle sneeringly , the women are quick enough they're quick enough . 
They know the rights of a story before they hear it , and can tell a man what his thoughts are before he knows 'em himself . 
Like enough , said Mrs. Poyser , for the men are mostly so slow , their thoughts overrun 'em , an' they can only catch 'em by the tail . 
I can count a stocking top while a man's getting's tongue ready an' when he outs wi' his speech at last , there's little broth to be made on't . 
It's your dead chicks take the longest hatchin' . 
Howiver , I'm not denyin' the women are foolish God Almighty made 'em to match the men . 
Aye , as vinegar matches one's teeth . 
She's such a match as the horse fly is to th' horse she's got the right venom to sting him with the right venom to sting him with . 
That's what a man wants in a wife , mostly he wants to make sure o' one fool as 'ull tell him he's wise . 
But there's some men can do wi'out that they think so much o' themselves a'ready . 
An' that's how it is there's old bachelors . 
Well , said Mr. Craig , willing to conciliate Mrs. Poyser and setting a high value on his own compliments , I like a cleverish woman a woman o' sperrit a managing woman . 
You're out there , Craig , said Bartle , dryly you're out there . 
You judge o' your garden stuff on a better plan than that . 
You pick the things for what they can excel in for what they can excel in . 
You don't value your peas for their roots , or your carrots for their flowers . 
Now , that's the way you should choose women . 
Their cleverness 'll never come to much never come to much but they make excellent simpletons , ripe and strong flavoured . 
What dost say to that ? said Mr. Poyser , throwing himself back and looking merrily at his wife . 
Say ! answered Mrs. Poyser , with dangerous fire kindling in her eye . 
I'll go with you , lad , said Bartle I'll go with you before my ears are split . 
I'll go round by the Common and see you home , if you like , Mr. Massey , said Adam . 
Aye , aye ! said Bartle then we can have a bit o' talk together . 
I never get hold of you now . 
Eh ! It's a pity but you'd sit it out , said Martin Poyser . 
They'll all go soon , for th' missis niver lets 'em stay past ten . 
But Adam was resolute , so the good nights were said , and the two friends turned out on their starlight walk together . 
There's that poor fool , Vixen , whimpering for me at home , said Bartle . 
I can never bring her here with me for fear she should be struck with Mrs. Poyser's eye , and the poor bitch might go limping for ever after . 
I've never any need to drive Gyp back , said Adam , laughing . 
He always turns back of his own head when he finds out I'm coming here . 
Aye , aye , said Bartle . 
A terrible woman ! made of needles , made of needles . 
But I stick to Martin I shall always stick to Martin . 
And he likes the needles , God help him ! He's a cushion made on purpose for 'em . 
But she's a downright good natur'd woman , for all that , said Adam , and as true as the daylight . 
She's a bit cross wi' the dogs when they offer to come in th' house , but if they depended on her , she'd take care and have 'em well fed . 
If her tongue's keen , her heart's tender I've seen that in times o' trouble . 
She's one o' those women as are better than their word . 
Well , well , said Bartle , I don't say th' apple isn't sound at the core but it sets my teeth on edge it sets my teeth on edge . 
Chapter LIV The Meeting on the Hill ADAM understood Dinah's haste to go away , and drew hope rather than discouragement from it . 
She was fearful lest the strength of her feeling towards him should hinder her from waiting and listening faithfully for the ultimate guiding voice from within . 
I wish I'd asked her to write to me , though , he thought . 
And yet even that might disturb her a bit , perhaps . 
She wants to be quite quiet in her old way for a while . 
And I've no right to be impatient and interrupting her with my wishes . 
She's told me what her mind is , and she's not a woman to say one thing and mean another . 
That was Adam's wise resolution , and it throve excellently for the first two or three weeks on the nourishment it got from the remembrance of Dinah's confession that Sunday afternoon . 
There is a wonderful amount of sustenance in the first few words of love . 
But towards the middle of October the resolution began to dwindle perceptibly , and showed dangerous symptoms of exhaustion . 
The weeks were unusually long Dinah must surely have had more than enough time to make up her mind . 
He treads the earth with a very elastic step as he walks away from her , and makes light of all difficulties . 
But that sort of glow dies out memory gets sadly diluted with time , and is not strong enough to revive us . 
Adam was no longer so confident as he had been . 
He began to fear that perhaps Dinah's old life would have too strong a grasp upon her for any new feeling to triumph . 
If she had not felt this , she would surely have written to him to give him some comfort but it appeared that she held it right to discourage him . 
As Adam's confidence waned , his patience waned with it , and he thought he must write himself . 
He must ask Dinah not to leave him in painful doubt longer than was needful . 
He sat up late one night to write her a letter , but the next morning he burnt it , afraid of its effect . 
It would be worse to have a discouraging answer by letter than from her own lips , for her presence reconciled him to her will . 
But what harm could he do by going to Snowfield ? Dinah could not be displeased with him for it . 
She had not forbidden him to go . 
She must surely expect that he would go before long . 
Adam could never cease to mourn over that mystery of human sorrow which had been brought so close to him he could never thank God for another's misery . 
And if I were capable of that narrow sighted joy in Adam's behalf , I should still know he was not the man to feel it for himself . 
He would have shaken his head at such a sentiment and said , Evil's evil , and sorrow's sorrow , and you can't alter it's natur by wrapping it up in other words . 
Other folks were not created for my sake , that I should think all square when things turn out well for me . 
But it is not ignoble to feel that the fuller life which a sad experience has brought us is worth our own personal share of pain . 
The growth of higher feeling within us is like the growth of faculty , bringing with it a sense of added strength . 
Something like this sense of enlarged being was in Adam's mind this Sunday morning , as he rode along in vivid recollection of the past . 
It's like as if it was a new strength to me , he said to himself , to love her and know as she loves me . 
I shall look t' her to help me to see things right . 
For she's better than I am there's less o' self in her , and pride . 
And it's a feeling as gives you a sort o' liberty , as if you could walk more fearless , when you've more trust in another than y' have in yourself . 
Adam's doubts and fears melted under this influence as the delicate weblike clouds had gradually melted away into the clear blue above him . 
He seemed to see Dinah's gentle face assuring him , with its looks alone , of all he longed to know . 
He had set his mind on following her and bringing her home . 
Anybody at the town would tell him the way to Sloman's End . 
With all his haste it was nearly four o'clock before he could set off , and he thought that as Dinah had gone so early , she would perhaps already be near returning . 
Perhaps that's the last hymn before they come away , Adam thought . 
I'll walk back a bit and turn again to meet her , farther off the village . 
She was much longer coming than he expected . 
He waited an hour at least watching for her and thinking of her , while the afternoon shadows lengthened and the light grew softer . 
At last he saw the little black figure coming from between the grey houses and gradually approaching the foot of the hill . 
Slowly , Adam thought , but Dinah was really walking at her usual pace , with a light quiet step . 
And now he began to fear lest he should startle her too much . 
Yet , he thought , she's not one to be overstartled she's always so calm and quiet , as if she was prepared for anything . 
What was she thinking of as she wound up the hill ? Perhaps she had found complete repose without him , and had ceased to feel any need of his love . 
On the verge of a decision we all tremble hope pauses with fluttering wings . 
But now at last she was very near , and Adam rose from the stone wall . 
He came within three paces of her and then said , Dinah ! She started without looking round , as if she connected the sound with no place . 
Dinah ! Adam said again . 
He knew quite well what was in her mind . 
She was so accustomed to think of impressions as purely spiritual monitions that she looked for no material visible accompaniment of the voice . 
But this second time she looked round . 
And they walked on so in silence , while the warm tears fell . 
Adam was content , and said nothing . 
It was Dinah who spoke first . 
Adam , she said , it is the Divine Will . 
My soul is so knit to yours that it is but a divided life I live without you . 
And this moment , now you are with me , and I feel that our hearts are filled with the same love . 
I have a fulness of strength to bear and do our heavenly Father's Will that I had lost before . 
Adam paused and looked into her sincere eyes . 
Then we'll never part any more , Dinah , till death parts us . 
And they kissed each other with a deep joy . 
It was an event much thought of in the village . 
All Mr. Burge's men had a holiday , and all Mr. Poyser's , and most of those who had a holiday appeared in their best clothes at the wedding . 
The churchyard walk was quite lined with familiar faces , many of them faces that had first looked at Dinah when she preached on the Green . 
I envy them all the sight they had when the marriage was fairly ended and Adam led Dinah out of church . 
So the lily face looked out with sweet gravity from under a grey Quaker bonnet , neither smiling nor blushing , but with lips trembling a little under the weight of solemn feelings . 
Adam , as he pressed her arm to his side , walked with his old erectness and his head thrown rather backward as if to face all the world better . 
There was a tinge of sadness in his deep joy Dinah knew it , and did not feel aggrieved . 
Bartle Massey had consented to attend the wedding at Adam's earnest request , under protest against marriage in general and the marriage of a sensible man in particular . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Poyser had a joke against him after the wedding dinner , to the effect that in the vestry he had given the bride one more kiss than was necessary . 
Behind this last couple came Mr. Irwine , glad at heart over this good morning's work of joining Adam and Dinah . 
And the women , he observed , could never do anything but put finger in eye at a wedding . 
That's a bit of good news to cheer Arthur , said Mr. Irwine to his mother , as they drove off . 
I shall write to him the first thing when we get home . 
Epilogue IT is near the end of June , in . 
But now she turns away from the sunlight and looks towards the door . 
I see him , Seth , Dinah said , as she looked into the house . 
Let us go and meet him . 
Come , Lisbeth , come with Mother . 
Come , Uncle Seth , said Dinah . 
Better take him on thy arm , Seth , said Dinah , looking fondly at the stout black eyed fellow . 
He's troublesome to thee so . 
Nay , nay Addy likes a ride on my shoulder . 
I can carry him so for a bit . 
A kindness which young Addy acknowledged by drumming his heels with promising force against Uncle Seth's chest . 
But to walk by Dinah's side , and be tyrannized over by Dinah's and Adam's children , was Uncle Seth's earthly happiness . 
Where didst see him ? asked Seth , as they walked on into the adjoining field . 
I can't catch sight of him anywhere . 
Between the hedges by the roadside , said Dinah . 
I saw his hat and his shoulder . 
Trust thee for catching sight of him if he's anywhere to be seen , said Seth , smiling . 
Thee't like poor mother used to be . 
She was always on the look out for Adam , and could see him sooner than other folks , for all her eyes got dim . 
He's been longer than he expected , said Dinah , taking Arthur's watch from a small side pocket and looking at it it's nigh upon seven now . 
Aye , they'd have a deal to say to one another , said Seth , and the meeting 'ud touch 'em both pretty closish . 
Why , it's getting on towards eight years since they parted . 
And the death of the poor wanderer , when she was coming back to us , has been sorrow upon sorrow . 
See , Addy , said Seth , lowering the young one to his arm now and pointing , there's Father coming at the far stile . 
Dinah hastened her steps , and little Lisbeth ran on at her utmost speed till she clasped her father's leg . 
It's cut me a good deal , Dinah , Adam said at last , when they were walking on . 
Didst find him greatly altered ? said Dinah . 
Why , he's altered and yet not altered . 
I should ha' known him anywhere . 
But his colour's changed , and he looks sadly . 
However , the doctors say he'll soon be set right in his own country air . 
He's all sound in th' inside it's only the fever shattered him so . 
But he speaks just the same , and smiles at me just as he did when he was a lad . 
It's wonderful how he's always had just the same sort o' look when he smiles . 
I've never seen him smile , poor young man , said Dinah . 
But thee wilt see him smile , to morrow , said Adam . 
He asked after thee the first thing when he began to come round , and we could talk to one another . 
'I hope she isn't altered , he said , 'I remember her face so well . 
I told him 'no , Adam continued , looking fondly at the eyes that were turned towards his , only a bit plumper , as thee'dst a right to be after seven year . 
'I may come and see her to morrow , mayn't I ? he said 'I long to tell her how I've thought of her all these years . 
Didst tell him I'd always used the watch ? said Dinah . 
Aye and we talked a deal about thee , for he says he never saw a woman a bit like thee . 
'I shall turn Methodist some day , he said , 'when she preaches out of doors , and go to hear her . 
Nay , lad , nay , said Adam , she was right and thee wast wrong . 
There's no rules so wise but what it's a pity for somebody or other . 
And I agree with her , and approve o' what she did . 
Mr. Irwine came in while we were talking about it , and he would have it as the Colonel must see nobody but thee to morrow . 
He said and he's in the right of it as it'll be bad for him t' have his feelings stirred with seeing many people one after another . 
'We must get you strong and hearty , he said , 'that's the first thing to be done Arthur , and then you shall have your own way . 
But I shall keep you under your old tutor's thumb till then . 
Mr. Irwine's fine and joyful at having him home again . 
Adam was silent a little while , and then said , It was very cutting when we first saw one another . 
He'd never heard about poor Hetty till Mr. Irwine met him in London , for the letters missed him on his journey . 
But you told me the truth when you said to me once , There's a sort of wrong that can never be made up for . 
Why , there's Mr. and Mrs. Poyser coming in at the yard gate , said Seth . 
So there is , said Dinah . 
Run , Lisbeth , run to meet Aunt Poyser . 
Come in , Adam , and rest it has been a hard day for thee . 
End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of Adam Bede , by George Eliot in our series by George Eliot , pseudonym of Mary Anne Evans . 
