Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
I want to ask a favor of you . 
I'm sure you won't mind . 
You don't mind , do you ? '' I mind being called good natured , '' said Miss Langham , smiling . 
Mind what , Mrs. Porter ? '' she asked . 
He is a friend of George's , '' Mrs. Porter explained , vaguely . 
It seems he was very civil to George when he was out there shooting in New Mexico , or Old Mexico , I don't remember which . 
He took George to his hut and gave him things to shoot , and all that , and now he is in New York with a letter of introduction . 
Well , that's very nice of you , '' purred Mrs. Porter , as she moved away . 
He may not be so bad , after all and I'll put Reginald King on your other side , shall I ? '' she asked , pausing and glancing back . 
The look on Miss Langham's face , which had been one of amusement , changed consciously , and she smiled with polite acquiescence . 
As you please , Mrs. Porter , '' she answered . 
She raised her eyebrows slightly . 
I am , as the politicians say , in the hands of my friends . 
'' Entirely too much in the hands of my friends , '' she repeated , as she turned away . 
It had now reached that stage when she was not quite sure that she understood either him or herself . 
They had known each other for a very long time too long , she sometimes thought , for them ever to grow to know each other any better . 
It was at a dance at a studio , and some French pantomimists gave a little play . 
Miss Langham saw him off his guard for the first time and instead of a somewhat bored and clever man of the world , he appeared as sincere and interested as a boy . 
She was a woman and wanted to be loved , in spite of the fact that she had been loved by many men at least it was so supposed and had rejected them . 
Each had offered her position , or had wanted her because she was fitted to match his own great state , or because he was ambitious , or because she was rich . 
She had begun to think that he never would , that he did not exist , that he was an imagination of the playhouse and the novel . 
The men whom she knew were careful to show her that they appreciated how distinguished was her position , and how inaccessible she was to them . 
They seemed to think that by so humbling themselves , and by emphasizing her position they pleased her best , when it was what she wanted them to forget . 
The society they knew put them constantly together and approved . 
His books of voyages were recognized by geographical societies and other serious bodies , who had given him permission to put long disarrangements of the alphabet after his name . 
She answered him and his enthusiasm in kind , and with as much apparent interest as she would have shown in a matter of state . 
It was her principle to be all things to all men , whether they were great artists , great diplomats , or great bores . 
She guessed that he had been listening for some time , and she also saw , before he turned his eyes quickly away , that he was distinctly amused . 
Miss Langham found it an interesting face to watch , and she did not look away from it . 
But while she spoke , Miss Langham was continually conscious of the presence of her neighbor , who piqued her interest and her curiosity in different ways . 
This is for private circulation . 
It is not a jeune fille story . 
For some reason , she could not tell why , she felt annoyed with herself and with her friends , and resented the attitude which the new comer assumed toward them . 
Mrs. Porter tells me that you know her son George ? '' she said . 
Yes , '' he replied , after a pause , he joined us at Ayutla . 
It was the terminus of the Jalisco and Mexican Railroad then . 
He came out over the road and went in from there with an outfit after mountain lions . 
I believe he had very good sport . 
'' It will open up the country , I believe , '' assented the other , indifferently . 
I know something of it , '' continued King , because I met the men who were putting it through at Pariqua , when we touched there in the yacht . 
They shipped most of their plant to that port , and we saw a good deal of them . 
They were a very jolly lot , and they gave me a most interesting account of their work and its difficulties . 
There are no men to day , Miss Langham , '' King exclaimed , suddenly , turning toward her , to my mind , who lead as picturesque lives as do civil engineers . 
And there are no men whose work is as little appreciated . 
'' Really ? '' said Miss Langham , encouragingly . 
They were marching through an almost unknown part of Mexico , fighting Nature at every step and carrying civilization with them . 
They were doing better work than soldiers , because soldiers destroy things , and these chaps were creating , and making the way straight . 
They had no banners either , nor brass bands . 
They fought mountains and rivers , and they were attacked on every side by fever and the lack of food and severe exposure . 
They had to sit down around a camp fire at night and calculate whether they were to tunnel a mountain , or turn the bed of a river or bridge it . 
They dragged their chains through miles and miles of jungle , and over flat alkali beds and cactus , and they reared bridges across roaring canons . 
We know nothing about them and we care less . 
They are the bravest soldiers of the present day , and they are the least recognized . 
I have forgotten their names , and you never heard them . 
But it seems to me the civil engineer , for all that , is the chief civilizer of our century . 
'' Miss Langham was looking ahead of her with her eyes half closed , as though she were going over in her mind the situation King had described . 
I never thought of that , '' she said . 
As you say , the reward is so inglorious . 
But that is what makes it fine . 
'' The cowboy was looking down at the table and pulling at a flower in the centre piece . 
He had ceased to smile . 
It's a trade for each of them . 
The engineer's work is all the more absorbing , I imagine , when the difficulties are greatest . 
He has the fun of overcoming them . 
'' You see nothing in it then , '' she asked , but a source of amusement ? '' Oh , yes , a good deal more , '' he replied . 
A livelihood , for one thing . 
I I have been an engineer all my life . 
I built that road Mr. King is talking about . 
'' An hour later , when Mrs. Porter made the move to go , Miss Langham rose with a protesting sigh . 
I am so sorry , '' she said , it has been most interesting . 
I never met two men who had visited so many inaccessible places and come out whole . 
You have quite inspired Mr. King , he was never so amusing . 
But I should like to hear the end of that adventure won't you tell it to me in the other room ? '' Clay bowed . 
If I haven't thought of something more interesting in the meantime , '' he said . 
What I can't understand , '' said King , as he moved up into Miss Langham's place , is how you had time to learn so much of the rest of the world . 
You don't act like a man who had spent his life in the brush . 
How is it you've been there , while you have never been in New York ? '' Well , that's partly due to accident and partly to design , '' Clay answered . 
You see I've worked for English and German and French companies , as well as for those in the States , and I go abroad to make reports and to receive instructions . 
And then I'm what you call a self made man that is , I've never been to college . 
I have enough rough work eight months of the year to make me appreciate that . 
So whenever I get a few months to myself I take the Royal Mail to London , and from there to Paris or Vienna . 
I think I like Vienna the best . 
'' And how does this strike you ? '' asked King , with a movement of his shoulder toward the men about the dismantled table . 
Oh , I don't know , '' laughed Clay . 
You've lived abroad yourself how does it strike you ? '' Clay was the first man to enter the drawing room . 
You have come to finish that story ? '' she said , smiling . 
She fully recognized that because she was conspicuous certain innocent pleasures were denied her which other girls could enjoy without attracting attention or comment . 
But Clay interested her beyond her usual self , and the look in his eyes was a tribute which she had no wish to put away from her . 
I've thought of something more interesting to talk about , '' said Clay . 
I'm going to talk about you . 
You see I've known you a long time . 
'' Since eight o'clock ? '' asked Miss Langham . 
Oh , no , since your coming out , four years ago . 
'' It's not polite to remember so far back , '' she said . 
Were you one of those who assisted at that important function ? There were so many there I don't remember . 
'' No , I only read about it . 
One of the papers had an account of your coming out in it , and a picture of you , and I wrote East to the photographer for the original . 
It knocked about the West for three months and then reached me at Laredo , on the border between Texas and Mexico , and I have had it with me ever since . 
'' Miss Langham looked at Clay for a moment in silent dismay and with a perplexed smile . 
Where is it now ? '' she asked at last . 
In my trunk at the hotel . 
'' Oh , '' she said , slowly . 
She was still in doubt as to how to treat this act of unconventionality . 
Not in your watch ? '' she said , to cover up the pause . 
That would have been more in keeping with the rest of the story . 
'' The young man smiled grimly , and pulling out his watch pried back the lid and turned it to her so that she could see a photograph inside . 
The face in the watch was that of a young girl in the dress of a fashion of several years ago . 
It was a lovely , frank face , looking out of the picture into the world kindly and questioningly , and without fear . 
Was I once like that ? '' she said , lightly . 
I can get along without a compass or a medicine chest , but I can't do without the newspapers and the magazines . 
There was a time when I thought you were going to marry that Austrian chap , and I didn't approve of that . 
I knew things about him in Vienna . 
And then I read of your engagement to others well several others some of them I thought worthy , and others not . 
Once I even thought of writing you about it , and once I saw you in Paris . 
You were passing on a coach . 
'' What would you have done ? '' asked Miss Langham . 
Never mind , '' she interrupted , go on . 
'' Well , that's all , '' said Clay , smiling . 
That's all , at least , that concerns you . 
That is the romance of this poor young man . 
'' But not the only one , '' she said , for the sake of saying something . 
Perhaps not , '' answered Clay , but the only one that counts . 
I always knew I was going to meet you some day . 
And now I have met you . 
Not sorry to meet you , but to meet you in such surroundings . 
'' What fault do you find with my surroundings ? '' Well , these people , '' answered Clay , they are so foolish , so futile . 
There must be something else better than this . 
You can't make me believe that you choose it . 
In Europe you could have a salon , or you could influence statesmen . 
There surely must be something here for you to turn to as well . 
Something better than golf sticks and salted almonds . 
'' What do you know of me ? '' said Miss Langham , steadily . 
Only what you have read of me in impertinent paragraphs . 
How do you know I am fitted for anything else but just this ? You never spoke with me before to night . 
'' That has nothing to do with it , '' said Clay , quickly . 
Time is made for ordinary people . 
When people who amount to anything meet they don't have to waste months in finding each other out . 
It is only the doubtful ones who have to be tested again and again . 
It was the cheap stones they spent most of the afternoon over . 
'' Miss Langham looked at him for a moment in silence . 
Her beauty was so great that she could take her time to speak . 
She was not afraid of losing any one's attention . 
And have you come out of the West , knowing me so well , just to tell me that I am wasting myself ? '' she said . 
Is that all ? '' That is all , '' answered Clay . 
You know the things I would like to tell you , '' he added , looking at her closely . 
I think I like to be told the other things best , '' she said , they are the easier to believe . 
'' You have to believe whatever I tell you , '' said Clay , smiling . 
The girl pressed her hands together in her lap , and looked at him curiously . 
The people about them were moving and making their farewells , and they brought her back to the present with a start . 
I'm sorry you're going away , '' she said . 
It has been so odd . 
Is it fair ? '' She rose and put out her hand , and he took it and held it for a moment , while they stood looking at one another . 
I am coming back , '' he said , and I will find that you have settled them for yourself . 
'' Good by , '' she said , in so low a tone that the people standing near them could not hear . 
You haven't asked me for it , you know , but I think I shall let you keep that picture . 
'' Thank you , '' said Clay , smiling , I meant to . 
'' You can keep it , '' she continued , turning back , because it is not my picture . 
It is a picture of a girl who ceased to exist four years ago , and whom you have never met . 
'' Mr. Langham and Hope , his younger daughter , had been to the theatre . 
The performance had been one which delighted Miss Hope , and which satisfied her father because he loved to hear her laugh . 
Mr. Langham was the slave of his own good fortune . 
The father and the younger daughter were very close to one another , and had grown especially so since his wife had died and his son and heir had gone to college . 
This fourth member of the family was a great bond of sympathy and interest between them , and his triumphs and escapades at Yale were the chief subjects of their conversation . 
You are home early , '' said Mr. Langham , as Alice stood above him pulling at her gloves . 
I thought you said you were going on to some dance . 
'' I was tired , '' his daughter answered . 
Well , when I'm out , '' commented Hope , I won't come home at eleven o'clock . 
Alice always was a quitter . 
'' A what ? '' asked the older sister . 
Tell us what you had for dinner , '' said Hope . 
I know it isn't nice to ask , '' she added , hastily , but I always like to know . 
'' I don't remember , '' Miss Langham answered , smiling at her father , except that he was very much sunburned and had most perplexing eyes . 
'' Oh , of course , '' assented Hope , I suppose you mean by that that you talked with some man all through dinner . 
Well , I think there is a time for everything . 
They seem to be a most picturesque lot of young men . 
'' Engineers ? Of course , '' said Mr. Langham , vaguely , with the ten of spades held doubtfully in air . 
Sometimes we have to depend upon them altogether . 
We decide from what the engineering experts tell us whether we will invest in a thing or not . 
'' I don't think I mean the big men of the profession , '' said his daughter , doubtfully . 
I mean those who do the rough work . 
The men who dig the mines and lay out the railroads . 
Do you know any of them ? '' Some of them , '' said Mr. Langham , leaning back and shuffling the cards for a new game . 
Why ? '' Did you ever hear of a Mr. Robert Clay ? '' Mr. Langham smiled as he placed the cards one above the other in even rows . 
Very often , '' he said . 
He sails to morrow to open up the largest iron deposits in South America . 
He goes for the Valencia Mining Company . 
Valencia is the capital of Olancho , one of those little republics down there . 
'' Do you are you interested in that company ? '' asked Miss Langham , seating herself before the fire and holding out her hands toward it . 
'' He lifted a card and put it down again in some indecision . 
It's generally supposed to be operated by a company , but all the stock is owned by one man . 
'' Oh , '' said Miss Langham , as she looked steadily into the fire . 
Hope tapped her lips gently with the back of her hand to hide the fact that she was sleepy , and nudged her father's elbow . 
You shouldn't have put the deuce there , '' she said , you should have used it to build with on the ace . 
Olancho , as many people know , is situated on the northeastern coast of South America , and its shores are washed by the main equatorial current . 
They extended for seven miles , and then the caverns in the palisades began again and continued on down the coast to the great cliffs that guard the harbor of Olancho's capital . 
The waves tunnelled their way easily enough until they ran up against those five mountains , '' mused the engineer , and then they had to fall back . 
'' He walked to the captain's cabin and asked to look at a map of the coast line . 
I believe I won't go to Rio , '' he said later in the day I think I will drop off here at Valencia . 
There are five mountains filled with ore , '' Clay wrote , which should be extracted by open faced workings . 
I should call the stuff first class Bessemer ore , running about sixty three per cent metallic iron . 
The people know it is there , but have no knowledge of its value , and are too lazy to ever work it themselves . 
I will look into the political side of it and see what sort of a concession I can get for you . 
I should think ten per cent of the output would satisfy them , and they would , of course , admit machinery and plant free of duty . 
It was not a task for a holiday , but a stern , difficult , and perplexing problem , and Van Antwerp was not quite the man to solve it . 
He was stubborn , self confident , and indifferent by turns . 
He had no patience with their habits of procrastination , and he was continually offending their lazy good nature and their pride . 
He had a letter of recall for Van Antwerp , and a letter of introduction to the Minister of Mines and Agriculture . 
It was a choice either of this steamer and landing in a small boat , or riding along the line of the unfinished railroad on horseback . 
He spent the first three days after his arrival at the mines in the mountains , climbing them on foot and skirting their base on horseback , and sleeping where night overtook him . 
On the morning of the fourth day Clay and his attendants returned to camp and rode to where the men had just begun to blast away the sloping surface of the mountain . 
He kept them waiting for some short space , while he looked them over carefully , as though he had never seen them before . 
Well , gentlemen , '' he said , I'm glad to have you here all together . 
I am only sorry you didn't come in time to hear what this fellow has had to say . 
I don't as a rule listen that long to complaints , but he told me what I have seen for myself and what has been told me by others . 
I have been here three days now , and I assure you , gentlemen , that my easiest course would be to pack up my things and go home on the next steamer . 
You have not only done nothing , but you haven't a blue print to show me what you meant to do . 
I have never in my life come across laziness and mismanagement and incompetency upon such a magnificent and reckless scale . 
You have not built the pier , you have not opened the freight road , you have not taken out an ounce of ore . 
You know more of Valencia than you know of these mines you know it from the Alameda to the Canal . 
You can tell me what night the band plays in the Plaza , but you can't give me the elevation of one of these hills . 
You have spent your days on the pavements in front of cafe's , and your nights in dance halls , and you have been drawing salaries every month . 
I've more respect for these half breeds that you've allowed to starve in this fever bed than I have for you . 
You have treated them worse than they'd treat a dog , and if any of them die , it's on your heads . 
You have put them in a fever camp which you have not even taken the trouble to drain . 
Your commissariat is rotten , and you have let them drink all the rum they wanted . 
There is not one of you '' The group of silent men broke , and one of them stepped forward and shook his forefinger at Clay . 
No man can talk to me like that , '' he said , warningly , and think I'll work under him . 
I resign here and now . 
'' You what '' cried Clay , you resign ? '' He whirled his horse round with a dig of his spur and faced them . 
You're in no position to talk of resigning yet not one of you . 
Yes , '' he added , interrupting himself , one of you is MacWilliams , the man who had charge of the railroad . 
It's no fault of his that the road's not working . 
As for the rest of you , I'll give you a month's trial . 
It will be a month before the next steamer could get here anyway , and I'll give you that long to redeem yourselves . 
At the end of that time we will have another talk , but you are here now only on your good behavior and on my sufferance . 
It had been a long uphill fight , and Clay had enjoyed it mightily . 
Two unexpected events had contributed to help it . 
The idea of Mr. Langham's coming to visit Olancho to inspect his new possessions was not a surprise to Clay . 
It had occurred to him as possible before , especially after the son had come to join them there . 
The place was interesting and beautiful enough in itself to justify a visit , and it was only a ten days' voyage from New York . 
But he had never considered the chance of Miss Langham's coming , and when that was now not only possible but a certainty , he dreamed of little else . 
He lived as earnestly and toiled as indefatigably as before , but the place was utterly transformed for him . 
He saw it now as she would see it when she came , even while at the same time his own eyes retained their point of view . 
It was as though he had lengthened the focus of a glass , and looked beyond at what was beautiful and picturesque , instead of what was near at hand and practicable . 
It will keep us out of temptation . 
'' Yes , exactly , '' said Clay , with a guilty smile , it will keep us out of temptation . 
It was to be a great surprise , and they were all Clay , MacWilliams , and Langham as keenly interested in it as though each were preparing it for his honeymoon . 
They had been for the last hour trying to make up their minds as to this , and appealing to Clay to stop work and decide for them . 
But he sat inside at a table figuring and writing under the green shade of a student's lamp and made no answer . 
The walls of Clay's office were of unplaned boards , bristling with splinters , and hung with blue prints and outline maps of the mine . 
On a shelf at one side of the door lay the men's machetes , a belt of cartridges , and a revolver in a holster . 
I wanted to see , '' he explained , catching the look of listless curiosity in MacWilliams's eye , whether there was anything hotter than my blood . 
It's racing around like boiling water in a pot . 
'' Listen , '' said Langham , holding up his hand . 
There goes the call for prayers in the convent , and now it's too late to go to town . 
I am glad , rather . 
I'm too tired to keep awake , and besides , they don't know how to amuse themselves in a civilized way at least not in my way . 
I never could see why they have men in the chorus , anyway . 
No one ever looks at them . 
Now that's where I'd like to be . 
What would you like , MacWilliams ? '' MacWilliams was a type with which Clay was intimately familiar , but to the college bred Langham he was a revelation and a joy . 
He pulled meditatively on his pipe and considered Langham's question deeply , while Clay and the younger boy sat with their arms upon their knees and waited for his decision in thoughtful silence . 
I'd like to go to the theatre , too , '' said MacWilliams , with an air as though to show that he also was possessed of artistic tastes . 
I'd like to see a comical chap I saw once in oh , long ago before I joined the P. Q. M. He WAS funny . 
His name was Owens that was his name , John E. Owens '' Oh , for heaven's sake , MacWilliams , '' protested Langham , in dismay he's been dead for five years . 
'' Has he ? '' said MacWilliams , thoughtfully . 
Well '' he concluded , unabashed , I can't help that , he's the one I'd like to see best . 
'' You can have another wish , Mac , you know , '' urged Langham , can't he , Clay ? '' Clay nodded gravely , and MacWilliams frowned again in thought . 
No , '' he said after an effort , Owens , John E. Owens that's the one I want to see . 
'' Well , now I want another wish , too , '' said Langham . 
I move we can each have two wishes . 
I wish '' Wait until I've had mine , '' said Clay . 
I want to be in a place I know in Vienna . 
It's not hot like this , but cool and fresh . 
It's an open , out of door concert garden , with hundreds of colored lights and trees , and there's always a breeze coming through . 
'' Wait a minute , '' interrupted MacWilliams , leaning forward and looking into the night . 
The first was General Mendoza , the leader of the Opposition in the Senate , and the other , his orderly . 
The General dropped his Panama hat to his knee and bowed in the saddle three times . 
Good evening , your Excellency , '' said Clay , rising . 
Tell that peon to get my coat , will you ? '' he added , turning to Langham . 
Wait until I get you a chair , '' said Clay . 
You'll find those steps rather bad for white duck . 
'' I am fortunate in finding you at home , '' said the officer , smiling , and showing his white teeth . 
The telephone is not working . 
I tried at the club , but I could not call you . 
'' It's the storm , I suppose , '' Clay answered , as he struggled into his jacket . 
Let me offer you something to drink . 
'' He entered the house , and returned with several bottles on a tray and a bundle of cigars . 
'' Yes , '' laughed Clay . 
'' There was a pause while the men sipped at their glasses , and looked at the horses and the orderly . 
The clanging of the guitar began again from the kitchen . 
You have a very beautiful view here of the harbor , yes , '' said Mendoza . 
He seemed to enjoy the pause after his ride , and to be in no haste to begin on the object of his errand . 
MacWilliams and Langham eyed each other covertly , and Clay examined the end of his cigar , and they all waited . 
And how are the mines progressing , eh ? '' asked the officer , genially . 
You find much good iron in them , they tell me . 
We hope to increase that soon to twenty thousand when the new openings are developed and our shipping facilities are in better shape . 
'' So much ! '' exclaimed the General , pleasantly . 
But you see , sir , '' said Clay , you cannot blame us . 
Your people let the chance go , and , as it turned out , I think they were very wise in doing so . 
They get ten per cent of the output . 
And look at the price we paid down before we cut a tree . 
Three millions of dollars that's a good deal of money . 
It will be some time before we realize anything on that investment . 
'' Mendoza shook his head and shrugged his shoulders . 
I will be frank with you , '' he said , with the air of one to whom dissimulation is difficult . 
I come here to night on an unpleasant errand , but it is with me a matter of duty , and I am a soldier , to whom duty is the foremost ever . 
I have come to tell you , Mr. Clay , that we , the Opposition , are not satisfied with the manner in which the Government has disposed of these great iron deposits . 
When I say not satisfied , my dear friend , I speak most moderately . 
I should say that we are surprised and indignant , and we are determined the wrong it has done our country shall be righted . 
It has been a shameful bargain , and I cannot say who is to blame I accuse no one . 
And I come to you to night , as the Resident Director , to inform you beforehand of my intention . 
I do not wish to take you unprepared . 
I do not blame your people they are business men , they know how to make good bargains , they get what they best can . 
'' Mendoza made a sweeping bow and seated himself , frowning dramatically , with folded arms . 
His voice still hung in the air , for he had spoken as earnestly as though he imagined himself already standing in the hall of the Senate championing the cause of the people . 
Clay shifted one muddy boot over the other and leaned back with his hands stuck in his belt . 
Why didn't you speak of this sooner ? '' he asked . 
Ah , yes , that is fair , '' said the General , quickly . 
I am a soldier first , a politician after . 
During the last year I have been engaged in guarding the frontier . 
I find that indignation reigns on every side . 
I find my friends complaining of the railroad which you run across their land . 
That was true at first , '' he interrupted , but it is not so now . 
I should be glad , General , to take you over the men's quarters at any time . 
But the men are paid now . 
However , this is not of the most importance . 
All the stock is taken in New York , no one benefits but the State , and it receives only ten per cent . 
It is monstrous ! '' I see , '' said Clay , gravely . 
That had not occurred to me before . 
They feel they have been slighted . 
'' He paused for a moment as if in serious consideration . 
Well , '' he added , that might be arranged . 
'' He turned and jerked his head toward the open door . 
If you boys mean to go to town to night , you'd better be moving , '' he said . 
The two men rose together and bowed silently to their guest . 
I should like if Mr. Langham would remain a moment with us , '' said Mendoza , politely . 
I understand that it is his father who controls the stock of the company . 
If we discuss any arrangement it might be well if he were here . 
'' Clay was sitting with his chin on his breast , and he did not look up , nor did the young man turn to him for any prompting . 
I'm not down here as my father's son , '' he said , I am an employee of Mr. Clay's . 
'' Clay looked out over the harbor at the lights of the town , and the General twirled his hat around his knee and gazed with appreciation at the stars above him . 
'' That is true , '' assented the other . 
'' I should think that is it seems to me , '' said Clay with careful consideration , that your Excellency might be able to render us great help in this matter yourself . 
We need a friend among the Opposition . 
In fact I see where you could assist us in many ways , where your services would be strictly in the line of your public duty and yet benefit us very much . 
'' Clay looked over inquiringly to where Mendoza sat in the light of the open door , and the General smiled faintly , and emitted a pleased little sigh of relief . 
Indeed , '' continued Clay , I should think Mr. Langham might even save you the formality of purchasing the stock outright by sending you its money equivalent . 
If I say It is all right , I am satisfied with what the Government has done in my absence , it is enough . 
And I will say it , I give you the word of a soldier , I will say it . 
I will not move a vote of want of confidence on Tuesday . 
You need go no farther than myself . 
Who knows what may not happen in a year ? I may be able to serve you even more . 
And my friends can do nothing . 
You have done well , my dear sir , to consider me alone . 
'' Clay turned in his chair and looked back of him through the office to the room beyond . 
Boys , '' he called , you can come out now . 
'' He rose and pushed his chair away and beckoned to the orderly who sat in the saddle holding the General's horse . 
Langham and MacWilliams came out and stood in the open door , and Mendoza rose and looked at Clay . 
You can go now , '' Clay said to him , quietly . 
That will make you popular with your friends , and will show the Government just what sort of a leader it has working against it . 
'' Clay took a step forward and shook his finger in the officer's face . 
Try to break that concession try it . 
'' Mendoza had straightened with surprise when Clay first began to speak , and had then bent forward slightly as though he meant to interrupt him . 
His eyebrows were lowered in a straight line , and his lips moved quickly . 
You poor '' he began , contemptuously . 
Bah , '' he exclaimed , you're a fool I should have sent a servant to talk with you . 
You are a child but you are an insolent child , '' he cried , suddenly , his anger breaking out , and I shall punish you . 
You dare to call me names ! You shall fight me , you shall fight me to morrow . 
You have insulted an officer , and you shall meet me at once , to morrow . 
'' If I meet you to morrow , '' Clay replied , I will thrash you for your impertinence . 
The only reason I don't do it now is because you are on my doorstep . 
You had better not meet me tomorrow , or at any other time . 
And I have no leisure to fight duels with anybody . 
'' You are a coward , '' returned the other , quietly , and I tell you so before my servant . 
'' Clay gave a short laugh and turned to MacWilliams in the doorway . 
Hand me my gun , MacWilliams , '' he said , it's on the shelf to the right . 
'' MacWilliams stood still and shook his head . 
Oh , let him alone , '' he said . 
You've got him where you want him . 
'' Give me the gun , I tell you , '' repeated Clay . 
I'm not going to hurt him , I'm only going to show him how I can shoot . 
'' MacWilliams moved grudgingly across the porch and brought back the revolver and handed it to Clay . 
Look out now , '' he said , it's loaded . 
Clay told him in Spanish to throw up his hands , and the man , with a frightened look at his officer , did as the revolver suggested . 
Then Clay motioned with his empty hand for the other to desist . 
Don't do that , '' he said , I'm not going to hurt you I'm only going to frighten you a little . 
'' He turned and looked at the student lamp inside , where it stood on the table in full view . 
Then he raised his revolver . 
There was a wild yell of terror from the back of the house , and the noise of a guitar falling down a flight of steps . 
I have probably killed a very good cook , '' said Clay , as I should as certainly kill you , if I were to meet you . 
Langham , '' he continued , go tell that cook to come back . 
'' The General sprang into his saddle , and the altitude it gave him seemed to bring back some of the jauntiness he had lost . 
That was very pretty , '' he said you have been a cowboy , so they tell me . 
It is quite evident by your manners . 
No matter , if we do not meet to morrow it will be because I have more serious work to do . 
Two months from to day there will be a new Government in Olancho and a new President , and the mines will have a new director . 
I have tried to be your friend , Mr. Clay . 
See how you like me for an enemy . 
'' Good night , '' said MacWilliams , unmoved . 
Please ask your man to close the gate after you . 
'' When the sound of the hoofs had died away the men still stood in an uncomfortable silence , with Clay twirling the revolver around his middle finger . 
I'm sorry I had to make a gallery play of that sort , '' he said . 
But it was the only way to make that sort of man understand . 
'' Langham sighed and shook his head ruefully . 
Well , '' he said , I thought all the trouble was over , but it looks to me as though it had just begun . 
So far as I can see they're going to give the governor a run for his money yet . 
'' Clay turned to MacWilliams . 
How many of Mendoza's soldiers have we in the mines , Mac ? '' he asked . 
About fifteen hundred , '' MacWilliams answered . 
But you ought to hear the way they talk of him . 
'' They do , eh ? '' said Clay , with a smile of satisfaction . 
Six hundred slaves who hate their masters . 
What do they say about me ? '' Oh , they think you're all right . 
They know you got them their pay and all that . 
They'd do a lot for you . 
'' Would they fight for me ? '' asked Clay . 
MacWilliams looked up and laughed uneasily . 
I don't know , '' he said . 
Why , old man ? What do you mean to do ? '' Oh , I don't know , '' Clay answered . 
I was just wondering whether I should like to be President of Olancho . 
'' Oh , my sisters are all right , '' Langham would reassure him they'll think it's fine . 
It will be like camping out to them , or a picnic . 
'' But to make sure , and to test his girders , '' as Clay put it , they gave a dinner , and after that a breakfast . 
He was a friend of Clay's and popular with every one present , except for the fact that he occupied this position , instead of serving his own Government in his own army . 
Some people said he had been crossed in love , others , less sentimental , that he had forged a check , or mixed up the mess accounts of his company . 
Stuart , so far as they were concerned , could do no wrong . 
The dinner went off very well , and the President consented to dine with them in a week , on the invitation of young Langham to meet his father . 
Miss Langham is very beautiful , they tell me , '' Madame Alvarez said to Clay . 
I heard of her one winter in Rome she was presented there and much admired . 
'' Yes , I believe she is considered very beautiful , '' Clay said . 
I have only just met her , but she has travelled a great deal and knows every one who is of interest , and I think you will like her very much . 
'' I mean to like her , '' said the woman . 
I was overjoyed when I heard Miss Langham was to be with us this winter . 
But you must not keep her out here to yourselves . 
It is too far and too selfish . 
She must spend some time with me at the Government House . 
'' Yes , '' said Clay , I am afraid of that . 
I am afraid the young ladies will find it rather lonely out here . 
'' Ah , no , '' exclaimed the woman , quickly . 
'' I will have the road repaired , '' interrupted the President . 
'' The breakfast was given later in the week , and only men were present . 
They were the rich planters and bankers of Valencia , generals in the army , and members of the Cabinet , and officers from the tiny war ship in the harbor . 
The breeze from the bay touched them through the open doors , the food and wine cheered them , and the eager courtesy and hospitality of the three Americans pleased and flattered them . 
They were of a people who better appreciate the amenities of life than its sacrifices . 
And I hope , '' he concluded , that you will allow me , gentlemen , to propose the health of President Alvarez and the members of his Cabinet . 
'' The men rose to their feet , one by one , filling their glasses and laughing and saying , Viva el Gobernador , '' until they were all standing . 
'' Stuart waited until after the rest had gone , and Clay led him out to the end of the veranda . 
Now will you kindly tell me what that was ? '' Clay asked . 
It didn't sound like champagne . 
'' No , '' said the other , I thought you knew . 
Alvarez means to proclaim himself Dictator , if he can , before the spring elections . 
'' And are you going to help him ? '' Of course , '' said the Englishman , simply . 
Well , that's all right , '' said Clay , but there's no use shouting the fact all over the shop like that and they shouldn't drag me into it . 
'' Stuart laughed easily and shook his head . 
It won't be long before you'll be in it yourself , '' he said . 
It did not come soothingly and in a steady downpour , but brokenly , like the rush of waves sweeping over a rough beach . 
The men climbed the muddy road to the Palms , and viewed in silence the wreck which the night had brought to their plants and garden paths . 
The harbor and the encircling mountains showed dimly through a curtain of warm , sticky rain . 
I am sorry , '' Clay said , simply I wanted them to like it . 
A second dripping rag answered it from the semaphore in front of the Custom House , and MacWilliams laughed nervously and shut the glass . 
It's red , '' he said they've come . 
I see them , '' cried Langham , jumping up and rocking the boat in his excitement . 
There they are in the bow . 
The men took off their hats , and as they pulled up alongside she bowed to Clay and nodded brightly . 
They sent Langham up the gangway first , and waited until he had made his greetings to his family alone . 
'' They did , did they ? '' said Clay , with a satisfied nod . 
That's all right , then . 
That was a royal salute in your honor . 
Kirkland had that to do . 
He's the foreman of A opening . 
I am awfully sorry about this rain it spoils everything . 
'' I hope it hasn't spoiled our breakfast , '' said Mr. Langham . 
We haven't eaten anything this morning , because we wanted a change of diet , and the captain told us we should be on shore before now . 
'' We have some carriages for you at the wharf , and we will drive you right out to the Palms , '' said young Langham . 
It's shorter by water , but there's a hill that the girls couldn't climb today . 
Where's MacWilliams ? Here , Mac , I want you to know my father . 
This is MacWilliams , sir , of whom I wrote you . 
So the new arrivals sat rather silently under the shed of the levee on a row of cotton bales , while Clay and MacWilliams raced off after the carriages . 
Not that it's worth seeing in all this mud and muck , but it's great when the sun shines . 
We had planned it all so differently . 
'' He was alone with his family now in one carriage , and the other men and the servants were before them in two others . 
It seemed an interminable ride to them all to the strangers , and to the men who were anxious that they should be pleased . 
They left the city at last , and toiled along the limestone road to the Palms , rocking from side to side and sinking in ruts filled with rushing water . 
This is worse than a Turkish bath , '' said Hope , faintly . 
A wet , black face appeared at the opening of the hood , and a man spoke despondently in Spanish . 
He says we're stuck in the mud , '' explained Langham . 
It can't be any worse , '' he said , cheerfully it must mend now . 
It is not your fault , Ted , that we're starving and lost in the mud . 
He sprang out to their assistance , and Hope , shaking off her sister's detaining hands , jumped out after him , laughing . 
She splashed up the hill to the horses' heads , motioning to the driver to release his hold on their bridles . 
That is not the way to treat a horse , '' she said . 
Are you men all ready down there ? '' she called . 
Each of the three men glued a shoulder to a wheel , and clenched his teeth and nodded . 
All right , then , '' Hope called back . 
Then she released her hold on the bridles and looked down , in dismay , at her frock and hands , and then up at the three men . 
Before they reached the Palms the sun was out and shining with fierce brilliancy , reflecting its rays on every damp leaf , and drinking up each glistening pool of water . 
They think it's fine ! '' said young Langham , who had run down the hill to tell them about it . 
I tell you , they are pleased . 
I took them all over the house , and they just exclaimed every minute . 
Of course , '' he said , dispassionately , I thought they'd like it , but I had no idea it would please them as much as it has . 
'' Langham dined with his people that night , Clay and MacWilliams having promised to follow him up the hill later . 
It was a night of much moment to them all , and the two men ate their dinner in silence , each considering what the coming of the strangers might mean to him . 
As he was leaving the room MacWilliams stopped and hovered uncertainly in the doorway . 
Are you going to get yourself into a dress suit to night ? '' he asked . 
Clay said that he thought he would he wanted to feel quite clean once more . 
Well , all right , then , '' the other returned , reluctantly . 
I'll do it for this once , if you mean to , but you needn't think I'm going to make a practice of it , for I'm not . 
MacGolderick blew himself up at Puerto Truxillo , shooting rocks for the breakwater . 
We never found all of him , but we gave what we could get together as fine a funeral as those natives ever saw . 
The boys , they wanted to make him look respectable , so they asked me to lend them my dress suit , but I told them I meant to wear it myself . 
That's how I came to wear a dress suit at a funeral . 
It was either me or MacGolderick . 
'' Do you mean you don't believe that story ? '' MacWilliams demanded , sternly . 
I do , '' said Clay , I mean I don't . 
'' Well , let it go , '' returned MacWilliams , gloomily but there's been funerals for less than that , let me tell you . 
'' A half hour later MacWilliams appeared in the door and stood gazing attentively at Clay arranging his tie before a hand glass , and then at himself in his unusual apparel . 
No wonder you voted to dress up , '' he exclaimed finally , in a tone of personal injury . 
That's not a dress suit you've got on anyway . 
And you haven't got a high collar on , either . 
That's only a rough blue print of a dress suit . 
Why , you look just as comfortable as though you were going to enjoy yourself and you look cool , too . 
'' Well , why not ? '' laughed Clay . 
Well , but look at me , '' cried the other . 
Do I look cool ? Do I look happy or comfortable ? No , I don't . 
I look just about the way I feel , like a fool undertaker . 
I'm going to take this thing right off . 
You and Ted Langham can wear your silk scarfs and bobtail coats , if you like , but if they don't want me in white duck they don't get me . 
'' When they reached the Palms , Clay asked Miss Langham if she did not want to see his view . 
And perhaps , if you appreciate it properly , I will make you a present of it , '' he said , as he walked before her down the length of the veranda . 
It would be very selfish to keep it all to my self , '' she said . 
Clay and Miss Langham were quite alone . 
And back of all were the mountains , grim and mysterious , with white clouds sleeping in their huge valleys , like masses of fog . 
Miss Langham was for a long time silent . 
She stood with her hands clasped behind her , gazing from side to side into the moonlight , and had apparently forgotten that Clay was present . 
Well , '' he said at last , I think you appreciate it properly . 
I was afraid you would exclaim about it , and say it was fine , or charming , or something . 
'' Miss Langham turned to him and smiled slightly . 
And you told me once that you knew me so very well , '' she said . 
Clay chose to forget much that he had said on that night when he had first met her . 
So he replied , I don't know you so well now . 
You must remember I haven't seen you for a year . 
'' Yes , but you hadn't seen me for twenty two years then , '' she answered . 
I don't think you have changed much , '' she went on . 
I expected to find you gray with cares . 
Ted wrote us about the way you work all day at the mines and sit up all night over calculations and plans and reports . 
But you don't show it . 
When are you going to take us over the mines ? To morrow ? I am very anxious to see them , but I suppose father will want to inspect them first . 
Ted told us in his letters , and she used to work it out on the map in father's study . 
She is a most energetic child I think sometimes she should have been a boy . 
I wish I could be the help to any one that she is to my father and to me . 
Whenever I am blue or down she makes fun of me , and '' Why should you ever be blue ? '' asked Clay , abruptly . 
There is no real reason , I suppose , '' the girl answered , smiling , except that life is so very easy for me that I have to invent some woes . 
I should be better for a few reverses . 
And because I want you to be very kind to me , as you have been to Ted , and I hope that we are going to be very good friends . 
He took her hand in his and held it for a moment . 
His pleasure in the sweet friendliness of her manner and in her beauty was so great that it kept him silent . 
Friends ! '' he laughed under his breath . 
I don't think there is much danger of our not being friends . 
The danger lies , '' he went on , smiling , in my not being able to stop there . 
'' Miss Langham made no sign that she had heard him , but turned and walked out into the moonlight and down the porch to where the others were sitting . 
He watched her from the shadow as she sat leaning easily forward and looking into the night . 
She had asked him to be her friend . 
It seemed a very wonderful thing to Clay something that could only have happened in a novel or a play . 
It was a land of romance and adventure , of guitars and latticed windows , of warm brilliant days and gorgeous silent nights , under purple heavens and white stars . 
And he was to have her all to himself , with no one near to interrupt , no other friends , even , and no possible rival . 
She was not guarded now by a complex social system , with its responsibilities . 
He was the most lucky of men . 
The music of the violins moved him and touched him deeply , and stirred depths at which he had not guessed . 
It made him humble and deeply grateful , and he felt how mean and unworthy he was of such great happiness . 
He had never loved any woman as he felt that he could love this woman , as he hoped that he was to love her . 
For he was not so far blinded by her beauty and by what he guessed her character to be , as to imagine that he really knew her . 
MacWilliams had a tenor voice which he maltreated in the most villanous manner by singing directly through his nose . 
The words of the chorus were He never cares to wander from his own fireside , He never cares to wander or to roam . 
With his babies on his knee , He's as happy as can be , For there's no place like Home , Sweet Home . 
'' MacWilliams loved accidentals , and what he called barber shop chords . 
So they suffered him to sing it in peace . 
MacWilliams went through his repertoire to the unconcealed amusement of young Langham and Hope . 
When he had finished he asked Hope if she knew a comic song of which he had only heard by reputation . 
Hope said she knew it , of course , and they all went into the drawing room , where the men grouped themselves about the piano . 
It was a night they remembered long afterward . 
The evening came to an end at last , and the new arrivals accompanied their visitors to the veranda as they started to their cabin for the night . 
Look ! '' he cried , pointing down the inlet . 
Here comes a man of war , or a yacht . 
Isn't she smart looking ? What can she want here at this hour of the night ? They won't let them land . 
Why , it's the Vesta' ! '' exclaimed Hope , wonderingly . 
I thought she wasn't coming for a week ? '' It can't be the Vesta' ! '' said the elder sister she was not to have sailed from Havana until to day . 
'' What do you mean ? '' asked Langham . 
We can go all over the place now , and he can land us right at the door of the mines if we want to . 
'' Is it the King I met at dinner that night ? '' asked Clay , turning to Miss Langham . 
Yes , '' she said . 
That must be Mr. King , '' said Hope . 
He didn't bring any one with him , and he seems to be the only man aft . 
An hour later Clay stood without his coat , and with a pen in his hand , at MacWilliams's bedside and shook him by the shoulder . 
I'm not asleep , '' said MacWilliams , sitting up what is it ? What have you been doing ? '' he demanded . 
Not working ? '' There were some reports came in after we left , '' said Clay , and I find I will have to see Kirkland to morrow morning . 
'' MacWilliams jumped from his bed and began kicking about the floor for his boots . 
Oh , that's all right , '' he said . 
We're right in our own class at last ! Pure amateurs with no professional record against us . 
Me and President Langham , I guess ! '' He struck a match and lit the smoky wick in a tin lantern . 
Five thirty , I believe you said . 
'' And whistling cheerfully to himself MacWilliams disappeared up the hill , his body hidden in the darkness and his legs showing fantastically in the light of the swinging lantern . 
Clay walked out upon the veranda and stood with his back to one of the pillars . 
MacWilliams and his pleasantries disturbed and troubled him . 
Perhaps , after all , the boy was right . 
It seemed absurd , but it was true . 
Clay laughed and shrugged his shoulders . 
And yet he turned with almost a feeling of resentment toward the white yacht lying calmly in magnificent repose a hundred yards from his porch . 
He could see her as clearly in her circle of electric lights as though she were a picture and held in the light of a stereopticon on a screen . 
How easy it was made for some men ! This one had come like the prince in the fairy tale on his magic carpet . 
If Alice Langham were to leave Valencia that next day , Clay could not follow her . 
He had his duties and responsibilities he was at another man's bidding . 
But this Prince Fortunatus had but to raise anchor and start in pursuit , knowing that he would be welcome wherever he found her . 
That was the worst of it to Clay , for he knew that men did not follow women from continent to continent without some assurance of a friendly greeting . 
It had been a life as restless as the seaweed on a rock . 
He looked up the hill to the low roofed bungalow with the palm leaves about it , outlined against the sky , and as motionless as patterns cut in tin . 
He had built that house . 
He had built it for her . 
That was her room where the light was shining out from the black bulk of the house about it like a star . 
He turned his eyes again to the blazing yacht , and this time there was no trace of envy in them . 
He laughed instead , partly with pleasure at the thought of the struggle he scented in the air , and partly at his own braggadocio . 
I'm not afraid , '' he said , smiling , and shaking his head at the white ship that loomed up like a man of war in the black waters . 
I'm not afraid to fight you for anything worth fighting for . 
He bowed his bared head in good night toward the light on the hill , as he turned and walked back into his bedroom . 
And I think , '' he murmured grimly , as he put out the light , that she is worth fighting for . 
For myself , '' said Mr. Langham , I don't believe you had anything to do at the mines at all . 
I think you went away just to show us how necessary you are . 
'' Clay said he was glad to find that his duties were to be of so pleasant a nature , and asked them what they had seen and what they had done . 
They told him they had been nowhere , but had waited for his return in order that he might act as their guide . 
Then you should see the city at once , '' said Clay , and I will have the volante brought to the door , and we can all go in this afternoon . 
There is room for the four of you inside , and I can sit on the box seat with the driver . 
'' No , '' said King , let Hope or me sit on the box seat . 
Then we can practise our Spanish on the driver . 
'' Not very well , '' Clay replied , for the driver sits on the first horse , like a postilion . 
It's a sort of tandem without reins . 
Haven't you seen it yet ? We consider the volante our proudest exhibit . 
To the right , as we descend , '' said Clay , speaking over his shoulder , you see a tin house . 
, and of his able lieutenants , Mr. Theodore Langham and Mr. MacWilliams . 
He is the one in a suit of blue overalls , and as his language at such times is free , we will drive rapidly on and not embarrass him . 
It's a very beautiful country for the pueblo , '' was Clay's comment . 
They in their turn did not escape from notice or comment . 
The two sisters would have been conspicuous anywhere in a queen's drawing room or on an Indian reservation . 
Theirs was a type that the caballeros and senoritas did not know . 
They did not know that he had mapped out this ride many times before , and was taking them over a route which he had already travelled with them in imagination . 
Clay felt a sudden fondness for the city , so grateful was he to it for entertaining her as it did , and for putting its best front forward for her delectation . 
But at the sight of Clay , General Alvarez and his wife retreated to the house again and made them welcome . 
During their short visit Madame Alvarez talked a greater part of the time herself , addressing what she said to Miss Langham , but looking at Hope . 
It was unusual for Hope to be singled out in this way when her sister was present , and both the sisters noticed it and spoke of it afterwards . 
They thought Madame Alvarez very beautiful and distinguished looking , and she impressed them , even after that short knowledge of her , as a woman of great force of character . 
She was very well dressed for a Spanish woman , '' was Miss Langham's comment , later in the afternoon . 
But everything she had on was just a year behind the fashions , or twelve steamer days behind , as Mr. MacWilliams puts it . 
'' She reminded me , '' said Hope , of a black panther I saw once in a circus . 
'' Dear me ! '' exclaimed the sister , I don't see that at all . 
Why ? '' Hope said she did not know why she was not given to analyzing her impressions or offering reasons for them . 
Madame Alvarez seemed to me to be just like that as though she were shut up somewhere and wanted to be free . 
Hope noticed , in advance of the escort of native cavalry , an auburn haired , fair skinned young man who was sitting an English saddle . 
He was introduced by Alvarez as Captain Stuart of my household troops , late of the Gordon Highlanders . 
Captain Stuart , '' said the President , laying his hand affectionately on the younger man's epaulette , takes care of my life and the safety of my home and family . 
I trust him , Mr. Langham , '' added the President , solemnly , as I trust no other man in all this country . 
The young engineer appeared at his best as host . 
Clay knew the kind of table talk to which the Langhams were accustomed , and used the material around his table in such a way that the talk there was vastly different . 
From King he drew forth tales of the buried cities he had first explored , and then robbed of their ugliest idols . 
He got a D. S. O. for doing it . 
'' Being an Englishman , '' said Hope , smiling encouragingly on the conscious Stuart , he naturally would leave that out . 
'' Mr. Langham and his daughters formed an eager audience . 
You have not been looking forward to just one thing and then had it come true . 
It is the only thing that ever did come true to me , and I thought it never would . 
'' You don't try to make me understand , '' said the girl , smiling , but without turning her eyes from the moving spectacle below her . 
Clay considered her challenge silently . 
He was gratified that they should know him to be not altogether a barbarian . 
For the first time in his life he found himself considering what he was about to say , and he suited it for her possible liking . 
He no longer looked on himself as an outsider . 
Stuart's voice arose from the farther end of the balcony , where the white figure of Hope showed dimly in the darkness . 
They are talking about you over there , '' said Miss Langham , turning toward him . 
Well , I don't mind , '' answered Clay , as long as they talk about me over there . 
'' Miss Langham shook her head . 
You are very frank and audacious , '' she replied , doubtfully , but it is rather pleasant as a change . 
'' I don't call that audacious , to say I don't want to be interrupted when I am talking to you . 
Aren't the men you meet generally audacious ? '' he asked . 
I can see why not though , '' he continued , you awe them . 
'' I can't think that's a nice way to affect people , '' protested Miss Langham , after a pause . 
I don't awe you , do I ? '' Oh , you affect me in many different ways , '' returned Clay , cheerfully . 
Sometimes I am very much afraid of you , and then again my feelings are only those of unlimited admiration . 
'' There , again , what did I tell you ? '' said Miss Langham . 
Well , I can't help doing that , '' said Clay . 
That is one of the few privileges that is left to a man in my position it doesn't matter what I say . 
That is the advantage of being of no account and hopelessly detrimental . 
The eligible men of the world , you see , have to be so very careful . 
A Prime Minister , for instance , can't talk as he wishes , and call names if he wants to , or write letters , even . 
Whatever he says is so important , because he says it , that he must be very discreet . 
I am so unimportant that no one minds what I say , and so I say it . 
It's the only comfort I have . 
'' Are you in the habit of going around the world saying whatever you choose to every woman you happen to to '' Miss Langham hesitated . 
To admire very much , '' suggested Clay . 
To meet , '' corrected Miss Langham . 
Because , if you are , it is a very dangerous and selfish practice , and I think your theory of non responsibility is a very wicked one . 
No , not at all , '' said Clay . 
I don't say it to give her pleasure , but because it gives me pleasure to say what I think . 
It was all very well that first night I met you , '' she went on , in a kindly tone . 
You rushed in then and by a sort of tour de force made me think a great deal about myself and also about you . 
His face was so serious and he was apparently giving such earnest consideration to what she had said that Miss Langham felt an uneasy sense of remorse . 
Miss Langham was not insensible to beauty of any sort , and she regarded the profile with perplexity and with a softening spirit . 
You understand , '' she said , gently , being quite certain that she did not understand this new order of young man herself . 
You are not offended with me ? '' she asked . 
Clay turned and frowned , and then smiled in a puzzled way and stretched out his hand toward the equestrian statue in the plaza . 
One of the stories they tell of him gives you a good idea of his character . 
That Captain Stuart , '' said Hope to her sister , as they drove home together through the moonlight , I like him very much . 
He seems to have such a simple idea of what is right and good . 
It is like a child talking . 
In England , at his age , he would be only a second lieutenant . 
Don't you remember what the President said , that he would trust him with the command of his army ? That's certainly a responsible position , and it shows great confidence in him . 
'' Not so great , it seems to me , '' said King , carelessly , as he is showing him in making him the guardian of his hearth and home . 
Did you hear what he said to day ? He guards my home and my family . 
I don't think a man's home and family are among the things he can afford to leave to the protection of stray English subalterns . 
From all I hear , it would be better if President Alvarez did less plotting and protected his own house himself . 
I don't think the President's home is in any danger from within . 
Madame Alvarez needs no protection , as you were about to say , Mr. Langham , '' he interrupted , quickly . 
Those who know her could say nothing against her , and those who do not know her would not so far forget themselves as to dare to do it . 
Have you noticed the effect of the moonlight on the walls of the convent ? '' he continued , gently . 
It makes them quite white . 
'' No , '' exclaimed Mr. Langham and King , hurriedly , as they both turned and gazed with absorbing interest at the convent on the hills above them . 
Before the sisters went to sleep that night Hope came to the door of her sister's room and watched Alice admiringly as she sat before the mirror brushing out her hair . 
I think it's going to be fine down here don't you , Alice ? '' she asked . 
Everything is so different from what it is at home , and so beautiful , and I like the men we've met . 
Isn't that Mr. MacWilliams funny and he is so tough . 
And Captain Stuart it is a pity he's shy . 
The only thing he seems to be able to talk about is Mr. Clay . 
He worships Mr. Clay ! '' Yes , '' assented her sister , I noticed on the balcony that you seemed to have found some way to make him speak . 
'' Well , that was it . 
He likes to talk about Mr. Clay , and I wanted to listen . 
Oh ! he is a fine man . 
He has done more exciting things '' Who ? Captain Stuart ? '' No Mr. Clay . 
It swings in the air across a chasm , and it rocks when the wind blows . 
And the German Emperor made him a Baron . 
'' Why ? '' I don't know . 
It was something about plans for fortifications . 
Oh , I beg your pardon , '' laughed Alice . 
If Ted approves we must all go down and worship . 
'' And father , too , '' continued Hope . 
He said he thought Mr. Clay was one of the most remarkable men for his years that he had ever met . 
'' Miss Langham's eyes were hidden by the masses of her black hair that she had shaken over her face , and she said nothing . 
And I liked the way he shut Reggie King up too , '' continued Hope , stoutly , when he and father were talking that way about Madame Alvarez . 
'' Yes , upon my word , '' exclaimed her sister , impatiently tossing her hair back over her shoulders . 
I really cannot see that Madame Alvarez is in need of any champion . 
I thought Mr. Clay made it very much worse by rushing in the way he did . 
Why should he take it upon himself to correct a man as old as my father ? '' I suppose because Madame Alvarez is a friend of his , '' Hope answered . 
My dear child , a beautiful woman can always find some man to take her part , '' said Miss Langham . 
Why , Alice ! '' But her sister only laughed and waved her out of the room , and Hope walked away frowning in much perplexity . 
V The visit to the city was imitated on the three succeeding evenings by similar excursions . 
On one night they returned to the plaza , and the other two were spent in drifting down the harbor and along the coast on King's yacht . 
Clay felt that King held the centre of the stage for the time being , and obliterated himself completely . 
He thought of his own paddle wheel tug boat that he had had painted and gilded in her honor , and smiled grimly . 
MacWilliams came toward him on tiptoe and dropped carefully into a wicker chair . 
There don't seem to be any door mats on this boat , '' he said . 
In every other respect she seems fitted out quite complete all the latest magazines and enamelled bathtubs , and Chinese waiter boys with cock tails up their sleeves . 
But there ought to be a mat at the top of each of those stairways that hang over the side , otherwise some one is sure to soil the deck . 
Have you been down in the engine room yet ? '' he asked . 
Well , don't go , then , '' he advised , solemnly . 
It will only make you feel badly . 
I have asked the Admiral if I can send those half breed engine drivers over to morrow to show them what a clean engine room looks like . 
I've just been talking to the chief . 
His name's MacKenzie , and I told him I was Scotch myself , and he said it was a greet pleesure' to find a gentleman so well acquainted with the movements of machinery . 
He thought I was one of King's friends , I guess , so I didn't tell him I pulled a lever for a living myself . 
I gave him a cigar though , and he said , Thankee , sir , and touched his cap to me . 
'' MacWilliams chuckled at the recollection , and crossed his legs comfortably . 
One of King's cigars , too , '' he said . 
Real Havana he leaves them lying around loose in the cabin . 
Have you had one ? Ted Langham and I took about a box between us . 
'' Clay made no answer , and MacWilliams settled himself contentedly in the great wicker chair and puffed grandly on a huge cigar . 
It's demoralizing , isn't it ? '' he said at last . 
What ? '' asked Clay , absently . 
Oh , this associating with white people again , as we're doing now . 
We're having the spree of our lives now , I guess , but there's going to be a difference in the morning . 
'' Oh , it's worth a headache , I think , '' said Clay , as he shrugged his shoulders and walked away to find Miss Langham . 
The day set for the visit to the mines rose bright and clear . 
MacWilliams had rigged out his single passenger car with rugs and cushions , and flags flew from its canvas top that flapped and billowed in the wind of the slow moving train . 
Clay sat at the back of the car with Miss Langham , and told her and her father of the difficulties with which young MacWilliams had had to contend . 
Miss Langham found her chief pleasure in noting the attention which her father gave to all that Clay had to tell him . 
Knowing her father as she did , and being familiar with his manner toward other men , she knew that he was treating Clay with unusual consideration . 
And this pleased her greatly , for it justified her own interest in him . 
She regarded Clay as a discovery of her own , but she was glad to have her opinion of him shared by others . 
Their coming was a great event in the history of the mines . 
After the first half hour of curious interest Miss Langham admitted to herself that she was disappointed . 
She confessed she had hoped that Clay would explain the meaning of the mines to her , and act as her escort over the mountains which he was blowing into pieces . 
But a few minutes later she saw him look up at Hope , folding his arms across his chest tightly and shaking his head . 
That's why I ordered the bucket trolley . 
As it turned out , we saved money by it . 
'' Hope nodded her head slightly . 
That's what I told father when Ted wrote us about it , '' she said but you haven't done it at Mount Washington . 
'' Oh , but it's like this , Miss '' Kirkland replied , eagerly . 
It's because Washington is a solider foundation . 
We can cut openings all over it and they won't cave , but this hill is most all rubbish it's the poorest stuff in the mines . 
'' Hope nodded her head again and crowded her pony on after the moving group , but her sister and King did not follow . 
King looked at her and smiled . 
Hope is very enthusiastic , '' he said . 
From its porch they could look down the valley over the greater part of the mines , and beyond to where the Caribbean Sea lay flashing in the heat . 
I saw very few Americans down there , Weimer , '' said King . 
I thought Clay had imported a lot of them . 
'' About three hundred altogether , wild Irishmen and negroes , '' said the Consul but we use the native soldiers chiefly . 
They can stand the climate better , and , besides , '' he added , they act as a reserve in case of trouble . 
They are Mendoza's men , and Clay is trying to win them away from him . 
'' I don't understand , '' said King . 
Weimer looked around him and waited until Kirkland's servant had deposited a tray full of bottles and glasses on a table near them , and had departed . 
The talk is , '' he said , that Alvarez means to proclaim a dictatorship in his own favor before the spring elections . 
You've heard of that , haven't you ? '' King shook his head . 
Oh , tell us about it , '' said Miss Langham I should so like to be in plots and conspiracies . 
Madame Alvarez , you know , was the Countess Manueleta Hernandez before her marriage . 
She belongs to one of the oldest families in Spain . 
Alvarez married her in Madrid , when he was Minister there , and when he returned to run for President , she came with him . 
'' Indeed ? '' interrupted Miss Langham , I did not know that she was unpopular . 
'' What cowards to fight a woman ! '' exclaimed Miss Langham . 
Well , she began it first , you see , '' said the Consul . 
Who is the leader of the fight against her ? '' asked King . 
He is Vice President now , and if the people were ever given a fair chance to vote for the man they want , he would unquestionably be the next President . 
The mass of the people are sick of revolutions . 
They've had enough of them , but they will have to go through another before long , and if it turns against Dr . 
Alvarez , I'm afraid Mr. Langham will have hard work to hold these mines . 
You see , Mendoza has already threatened to seize the whole plant and turn it into a Government monopoly . 
Alvarez will make himself dictator , or Mendoza will make himself President . 
That's why Clay treats the soldiers here so well . 
He thinks he may need them against Mendoza . 
'' King smiled and Miss Langham regarded Weimer with flattering interest . 
And there are about thirty of my men on the yacht who wouldn't ask for their wages in a year if I'd let them go on shore and mix up in a fight . 
They told me you were here , '' he said , speaking to Miss Langham . 
I'm so sorry it tired you . 
I should have remembered it is a rough trip when you're not used to it , '' he added , remorsefully . 
But I'm glad Weimer was here to take care of you . 
'' It was just a trifle hot and noisy , '' said Miss Langham , smiling sweetly . 
She put her hand to her forehead with an expression of patient suffering . 
It made my head ache a little , but it was most interesting . 
'' She added , You are certainly to be congratulated on your work . 
'' Clay glanced at her doubtfully with a troubled look , and turned away his eyes to the busy scene below him . 
He was greatly hurt that she should have cared so little , and indignant at himself for being so unjust . 
Clay's eyes fixed themselves on the picture , and he smiled at its significance . 
Miss Langham noticed the look , and glanced below to see what it was that had so interested him , and then back at him again . 
He was still watching the approaching cavalcade intently , and smiling to himself . 
Hope ! '' she said , do look at your dress ! '' Hope's face was glowing with the unusual exercise , and her eyes were brilliant . 
Her hair had slipped down beneath the visor of her helmet . 
I am so tired and so hungry . 
'' She was laughing and looking directly at Clay . 
It has been a wonderful thing to have seen , '' she said , tugging at her heavy gauntlet , and to have done , '' she added . 
She pulled off her glove and held out her hand to Clay , moist and scarred with the pressure of the reins . 
Thank you , '' she said , simply . 
They were each smiling in appreciation of the tableau her father and Ted , MacWilliams and Kirkland , and all the others who had helped him . 
They seemed to envy , but not to grudge , the whole credit which the girl had given to him . 
Clay thought , Why could it not have been the other ? '' But he said aloud , Thank YOU . 
You have given me my reward . 
'' Miss Langham looked down impatiently into the valley below , and found that it seemed more hot and noisy , and more grimy than before . 
VI Clay believed that Alice Langham's visit to the mines had opened his eyes fully to vast differences between them . 
He laughed and railed at himself for having dared to imagine that he was in a position to care for her . 
He believed that he would always lack the mysterious something which these others held by right of inheritance . 
He was still young and full of the illusions of youth , and so gave false values to his own qualities , and values equally false to the qualities he lacked . 
Other women had found him attractive in himself they had cared for his strength of will and mind , and because he was good to look at . 
But he determined that this one must sympathize with his work in the world , no matter how unpicturesque it might seem to her . 
His work was the best of him , he assured himself , and he would stand or fall with it . 
Miss Langham met Clay on the afternoon of the day set for the ball , as she was going down the hill to join Hope and her father at dinner on the yacht . 
Are you not coming , too ? '' she asked . 
I wish I could , '' Clay answered . 
King asked me , but a steamer load of new machinery arrived to day , and I have to see it through the Custom House . 
'' Miss Langham gave an impatient little laugh , and shook her head . 
You might wait until we were gone before you bother with your machinery , '' she said . 
When you are gone I won't be in a state of mind to attend to machinery or anything else , '' Clay answered . 
Miss Langham seemed so far encouraged by this speech that she seated herself in the boathouse at the end of the wharf . 
She pushed her mantilla back from her face and looked up at him , smiling brightly . 
The time has come , the walrus said , '' she quoted , to talk of many things . 
'' Clay laughed and dropped down beside her . 
Well ? '' he said . 
You have been rather unkind to me this last week , '' the girl began , with her eyes fixed steadily on his . 
And that day at the mines when I counted on you so , you acted abominably . 
'' Clay's face showed so plainly his surprise at this charge , which he thought he only had the right to make , that Miss Langham stopped . 
I don't understand , '' said Clay , quietly . 
You treated me as though I had no interest in the matter at all , as though I was not capable of understanding it . 
You did not seem to care whether I was interested or not . 
In fact , you forgot me altogether . 
'' Clay exhibited no evidence of a reproving conscience . 
I am sorry you had a stupid time , '' he said , gravely . 
I did not mean that , and you know I didn't mean that , '' the girl answered . 
I wanted to hear about it from you , because you did it . 
I wasn't interested so much in what had been done , as I was in the man who had accomplished it . 
'' Clay shrugged his shoulders impatiently , and looked across at Miss Langham with a troubled smile . 
But that's just what I don't want , '' he said . 
Can't you see ? These mines and other mines like them are all I have in the world . 
They are my only excuse for having lived in it so long . 
That is nothing she has done herself . 
I should like you to value what I have done , not what I happen to be . 
'' Miss Langham turned her eyes to the harbor , and it was some short time before she answered . 
You are a very difficult person to please , '' she said , and most exacting . 
As a rule men are satisfied to be liked for any reason . 
I confess frankly , since you insist upon it , that I do not rise to the point of appreciating your work as the others do . 
I suppose it is a fault , '' she continued , with an air that plainly said that she considered it , on the contrary , something of a virtue . 
And if I knew more about it technically , I might see more in it to admire . 
But I am looking farther on for better things from you . 
The friends who help us the most are not always those who consider us perfect , are they ? '' she asked , with a kindly smile . 
She raised her eyes to the great ore pier that stretched out across the water , the one ugly blot in the scene of natural beauty about them . 
I think that is all very well , '' she said but I certainly expect you to do more than that . 
I have met many remarkable men in all parts of the world , and I know what a strong man is , and you have one of the strongest personalities I have known . 
But you can't mean that you are content to stop with this . 
You should be something bigger and more wide reaching and more lasting . 
Indeed , it hurts me to see you wasting your time here over my father's interests . 
You should exert that same energy on a broader map . 
You could make yourself anything you chose . 
At home you would be your party's leader in politics , or you could be a great general , or a great financier . 
I say this because I know there are better things in you , and because I want you to make the most of your talents . 
I am anxious to see you put your powers to something worth while . 
'' Miss Langham's voice carried with it such a tone of sincerity that she almost succeeded in deceiving herself . 
And yet she would have hardly cared to explain just why she had reproached the man before her after this fashion . 
The man at her side had won her interest from the first , and later had occupied her thoughts so entirely , that it troubled her peace of mind . 
Yet she would not let her feeling for him wax and grow stronger , but kept it down . 
And she was trying now to persuade herself that she did this because there was something lacking in him and not in her . 
She was almost angry with him for being so much to her and for not being more acceptable in little things , like the other men she knew . 
So she found this fault with him in order that she might justify her own lack of feeling . 
But Clay , who only heard the words and could not go back of them to find the motive , could not know this . 
He sat perfectly still when she had finished and looked steadily out across the harbor . 
His eyes fell on the ugly ore pier , and he winced and uttered a short grim laugh . 
That's true , what you say , '' he began , I haven't done much . 
Only '' he looked up at her curiously and smiled only you should not have been the one to tell me of it . 
I mean by that , '' he said , that the great part of the inspiration I have had to do what little I have done came from you . 
You were a sort of promise of something better to me . 
'' But , Mr. Clay , '' protested the girl , anxiously , I think you have done wonderfully well . 
I only said that I wanted you to do more . 
You are so young and you have '' Clay did not hear her . 
He was leaning forward looking moodily out across the water , with his folded arms clasped across his knees . 
I have not made the most of myself , '' he repeated that is what you said . 
'' He spoke the words as though she had delivered a sentence . 
You don't think well of what I have done , of what I am . 
No , '' he said with a bitter flippancy in his voice , I don't amount to much . 
When I was sixteen I was a sailor before the mast , '' he said , the sort of sailor that King's crew out there wouldn't recognize in the same profession . 
I've sat in my saddle night after night , with nothing overhead but the stars , and no sound but the noise of the steers breathing in their sleep . 
The women I knew were Indian squaws , and the girls of the sailors' dance houses and the gambling hells of Sioux City and Abilene , and Callao and Port Said . 
That was what I was and those were my companions . 
I was as low and as desperate as that . 
And now '' Clay lifted his head and smiled . 
I have risen to that . 
'' He paused and looked at Miss Langham uncertainly for a few moments as though in doubt as to whether she would understand him if he continued . 
In Edinburgh or Berlin or Paris , if you were to ask the people of my own profession , they could tell you something of me . 
If I wished it , I could drop this active work tomorrow and continue as an adviser , as an expert , but I like the active part better . 
I like doing things myself . 
I don't say , I am a salaried servant of Mr. Langham's I put it differently . 
I say , There are five mountains of iron . 
You are to take them up and transport them from South America to North America , where they will be turned into railroads and ironclads . 
That's my way of looking at it . 
It's better to bind a laurel to the plough than to call yourself hard names . 
It makes your work easier almost noble . 
They had been so intent upon what Clay was saying that he had approached them over the soft sand of the beach without their knowing it . 
Miss Langham welcomed his arrival with evident pleasure . 
The launch is waiting for you at the end of the pier , '' MacWilliams said . 
Why didn't you go ? '' said Clay you have no business at the Custom House . 
'' Neither have you , '' said MacWilliams . 
But I guess we both understand . 
There's no good pushing your luck too far . 
'' What do you mean by that this time ? '' Why , what have we to do with all of this ? '' cried MacWilliams . 
It's what I keep telling you every day . 
We're not in that class , and you're only making it harder for yourself when they've gone . 
I call it cruelty to animals myself , having women like that around . 
Up North , where everybody's white , you don't notice it so much , but down here Lord ! '' That's absurd , '' Clay answered . 
Those girls help us , even if they do make the life here seem bare and mean . 
'' Bare and mean ! '' repeated MacWilliams incredulously . 
I think that's just what they don't do . 
I like it all the better because they're mixed up in it . 
I'm going to name the new engine after her when it gets here if her old man will let me . 
'' What do you mean ? Miss Langham hasn't been to the mines but once , has she ? '' Miss Langham ! '' exclaimed MacWilliams . 
No , I mean the other , Miss Hope . 
She comes out with Ted nearly every day now , and she's learning how to run a locomotive . 
Just for fun , you know , '' he added , reassuringly . 
I didn't suppose she had any intention of joining the Brotherhood , '' said Clay . 
So she's been out every day , has she ? I like that , '' he commented , enthusiastically . 
She's a fine , sweet girl . 
'' Fine , sweet girl ! '' growled MacWilliams . 
You can see just what her sister will be at thirty , and at fifty , and at eighty . 
She's thoroughbred and she's the most beautiful woman to look at I ever saw but , my son she is too careful . 
She hasn't any illusions , and no sense of humor . 
And a woman with no illusions and no sense of humor is going to be monotonous . 
You can't teach her anything . 
You can't imagine yourself telling her anything she doesn't know . 
The things we think important don't reach her at all . 
They're not in her line , and in everything else she knows more than we could ever guess at . 
But that Miss Hope ! It's a privilege to show her about . 
She wants to see everything , and learn everything , and she goes poking her head into openings and down shafts like a little fox terrier . 
And she'll sit still and listen with her eyes wide open and tears in them , too , and she doesn't know it until you can't talk yourself for just looking at her . 
'' Clay rose and moved on to the house in silence . 
He was glad that MacWilliams had interrupted him when he did . 
He wondered whether he understood Alice Langham after all . 
He had seen many fine ladies before during his brief visits to London , and Berlin , and Vienna , and they had shown him favor . 
He had known other women not so fine . 
He had known many women , and he could have quoted Trials and troubles amany , Have proved me One or two women , God bless them ! Have loved me . 
'' But the woman he was to marry must have all the things he lacked . 
She must fill out and complete him where he was wanting . 
This woman possessed all of these things . 
Miss Langham dropped among the soft cushions of the launch with a sense of having been rescued from herself and of delight in finding refuge again in her own environment . 
She did not know what she wished from that other strange young man . 
He was so bold , so handsome , and he looked at life and spoke of it in such a fresh , unhackneyed spirit . 
He might make himself anything he pleased . 
She recalled one day when they were all on board of this same launch , and the machinery had broken down , and MacWilliams had gone forward to look at it . 
Got any more ? '' he asked , anxiously . 
I have some war medals , '' Clay answered , smiling doubtfully . 
But I'm not in uniform . 
'' Oh , that's all right , '' declared MacWilliams . 
Put 'em on , put 'em all on . 
Give the girls a treat . 
Everybody will think they were given for feats of swimming , anyway but they will show up well from the front . 
Now , then , you look like a drum major or a conjuring chap . 
'' I do not , '' said Clay . 
I look like a French Ambassador , and I hardly understand how you find courage to speak to me at all . 
'' He went up the hill in high spirits , and found the carriage at the door and King , Mr. Langham , and Miss Langham sitting waiting for him . 
She wore a white frock that reached to the ground , and that left her arms and shoulders bare . 
Her hair was dressed high upon her head , and she was pulling vigorously at a pair of long , tan colored gloves . 
The transformation was so complete , and the girl looked so much older and so stately and beautiful , that the two young men stared at her in silent admiration and astonishment . 
Why , Hope ! '' exclaimed her sister . 
What does this mean ? '' Hope stopped in some alarm , and clasped her hair with both hands . 
Why , Alice , why not ? I was asked . 
'' Oh , nonsense , '' said Hope , defiantly . 
But she drew in her breath quickly and blushed , as she saw the two young men moving away out of hearing of this family crisis . 
She felt that she was being made to look like a spoiled child . 
It doesn't count down here , '' she said , and I want to go . 
I thought you knew I was going all the time . 
Marie made this frock for me on purpose . 
'' But I don't want to go to dances at home , '' interrupted Hope . 
Mr. Langham looked exceedingly uncomfortable , and turned apppealingly to his elder daughter . 
What do you think , Alice ? '' he said , doubtfully . 
I'm sorry , '' Miss Langham replied , but I know it would not be at all proper . 
I hate to seem horrid about it , Hope , but indeed you are too young , and the men here are not the men a young girl ought to meet . 
'' You meet them , Alice , '' said Hope , but pulling off her gloves in token of defeat . 
But , my dear child , I'm fifty years older than you are . 
'' Perhaps Alice knows best , Hope , '' Mr. Langham said . 
I'm sorry if you are disappointed . 
'' Hope held her head a little higher , and turned toward the door . 
I don't mind if you don't wish it , father , '' she said . 
'' She moved away , but apparently thought better of it , and came back and stood smiling and nodding to them as they seated themselves in the carriage . 
Mr. Langham leaned forward and said , in a troubled voice , We will tell you all about it in the morning . 
You won't be lonely , will you ? I'll stay with you if you wish . 
'' Nonsense ! '' laughed Hope . 
Why , it's given to you , father don't bother about me . 
I'll read something or other and go to bed . 
'' Good night , Cinderella , '' King called out to her . 
Good night , Prince Charming , '' Hope answered . 
The picture Hope made , as she stood deserted and forlorn on the steps of the empty house in her new finery , struck Clay as unnecessarily pathetic . 
It seemed to Clay such a simple thing to give children pleasure , and to remember that their woes were always out of all proportion to the cause . 
Children , dumb animals , and blind people were always grouped together in his mind as objects demanding the most tender and constant consideration . 
Miss Langham held herself a little more stiffly . 
Perhaps you do not quite understand , Mr. Clay , '' she said . 
Some of us have to conform to certain rules that the people with whom we best like to associate have laid down for themselves . 
If we choose to be conventional , it is probably because we find it makes life easier for the greater number . 
You cannot think it was a pleasant task for me . 
But I have given up things of much more importance than a dance for the sake of appearances , and Hope herself will see to morrow that I acted for the best . 
But Miss Langham was not to be propitiated . 
I'm sorry , '' she said , but I believe I am engaged until supper time . 
Come and ask me then , and I'll have one saved for you . 
But there is something you can do , '' she added . 
I left my fan in the carriage do you think you could manage to get it for me without much trouble ? '' The carriage did not wait . 
'' How absurd ! '' laughed Miss Langham , but she looked pleased , notwithstanding . 
Oh , not at all , '' Clay answered . 
He was smiling down at her in some amusement , and was apparently much entertained at his idea . 
Will you consider it an act of devotion ? '' he asked . 
There was so little of devotion , and so much more of mischief in his eyes , that Miss Langham guessed he was only laughing at her , and shook her head . 
You won't go , '' she said , turning away . 
She followed him with her eyes , however , as he crossed the room , his head and shoulders towering above the native men and women . 
Miss Langham did not enjoy the ball she felt injured and aggrieved , and she assured herself that she had been hardly used . 
She had only done her duty , and yet all the sympathy had gone to her sister , who had placed her in a trying position . 
She thought it was most inconsiderate . 
Hope walked slowly across the veranda when the others had gone , and watched the carriage as long as it remained in sight . 
Then she threw herself into a big arm chair , and looked down upon her pretty frock and her new dancing slippers . 
She , too , felt badly used . 
She did not go inside to read , as she had promised to do , but sat for the next hour looking out across the harbor . 
She could not blame Alice . 
She considered that Alice always moved by rules and precedents , like a queen in a game of chess , and she wondered why . 
It made life so tame and uninteresting , and yet people invariably admired Alice , and some one had spoken of her as the noblest example of the modern gentlewoman . 
She was sure she could not grow up to be any thing like that . 
She was quite confident that she was going to disappoint her family . 
She wondered if people would like her better if she were discreet like Alice , and less like her brother Ted . 
She remembered his look of astonished amusement the day he had caught her in this impromptu pig sticking , and she felt herself growing red at the recollection . 
She was sure he thought her a tomboy . 
Probably he never thought of her at all . 
Hope felt a choking in her throat and something like a tear creep to her eyes but she was surprised to find that the fact did not make her ashamed of herself . 
Hope had guessed that it was Clay by his riding , and she feared from his haste that some one of her people were ill . 
So she ran anxiously forward and asked if anything were wrong . 
Clay started at her sudden appearance , and gave a short boyish laugh of pleasure . 
I'm so glad you're still up , '' he said . 
No , nothing is wrong . 
'' He stopped in some embarrassment . 
No , nothing is wrong , '' he repeated . 
I came to get your sister's fan , '' Clay explained . 
'' The young girl looked at him for a moment in surprise and then straightened herself slightly . 
She did not know whether she was the more indignant with Alice for sending such a man on so foolish an errand , or with Clay for submitting to such a service . 
Oh , is that it ? '' she said at last . 
I will go and find you one . 
'' She gave him a dignified little bow and moved away toward the door , with every appearance of disapproval . 
Why , yes , '' she answered , wonderingly . 
But don't you want to go back ? You came in a great hurry . 
And won't Alice want her fan ? '' Oh , she has it by this time . 
I told Stuart to find it . 
She left it in the carriage , and the carriage is waiting at the end of the plaza . 
'' Then why did you come ? '' asked Hope , with rising suspicion . 
Oh , I don't know , '' said Clay , helplessly . 
I thought I'd just like a ride in the moonlight . 
I hate balls and dances anyway , don't you ? I think you were very wise not to go . 
'' Hope placed her hands on the back of the big arm chair and looked steadily at him as he stood where she could see his face in the moonlight . 
You came back , '' she said , because they thought I was crying , and they sent you to see . 
Is that it ? Did Alice send you ? '' she demanded . 
Clay gave a gasp of consternation . 
You know that no one sent me , '' he said . 
I thought they treated you abominably , and I wanted to come and say so . 
No one knows that I came to see you . 
I said I was going to get the fan , and I told Stuart to find it after I'd left . 
I just wanted to see you , that's all . 
But I will go back again at once . 
'' While he had been speaking Hope had lowered her eyes from his face and had turned and looked out across the harbor . 
There was a strange , happy tumult in her breast , and she was breathing so rapidly that she was afraid he would notice it . 
She also felt an absurd inclination to cry , and that frightened her . 
So she laughed and turned and looked up into his face again . 
Clay saw the same look in her eyes that he had seen there the day when she had congratulated him on his work at the mines . 
He had seen it before in the eyes of other women and it troubled him . 
Hope seated herself in the big chair , and Clay tossed his cloak on the floor at her feet and sat down with his shoulders against one of the pillars . 
He glanced up at her and found that the look that had troubled him was gone , and that her eyes were now smiling with excitement and pleasure . 
And did you bring me something from the ball in your pocket to comfort me , '' she asked , mockingly . 
Yes , I did , '' Clay answered , unabashed . 
I brought you some bonbons . 
'' You didn't , really ! '' Hope cried , with a shriek of delight . 
How absurd of you ! The sort you pull ? '' The sort you pull , '' Clay repeated , gravely . 
And also a dance card , which is a relic of barbarism still existing in this Southern capital . 
It has the arms of Olancho on it in gold , and I thought you might like to keep it as a souvenir . 
'' He pulled the card from his coat pocket and said , May I have this dance ? '' You may , '' Hope answered . 
But you wouldn't mind if we sat it out , would you ? '' I should prefer it , '' Clay said , as he scrawled his name across the card . 
It is so crowded inside , and the company is rather mixed . 
'' They both laughed lightly at their own foolishness , and Hope smiled down upon him affectionately and proudly . 
You may smoke , if you choose and would you like something cool to drink ? '' she asked , anxiously . 
After your ride , you know , '' she suggested , with hospitable intent . 
She caught Clay's eye fixed on her , and laughed lightly . 
What is it ? '' he said . 
Oh , I was just thinking , '' Hope replied , that it was much better to have a dance come to you , than to go to the dance . 
'' I should think it might depend a good deal upon the man , '' Clay suggested . 
That sounds as though you were hinting , '' said Hope , doubtfully . 
Now what would I say to that if I were out ? '' I don't know , but don't say it , '' Clay answered . 
It would probably be something very unflattering or very forward , and in either case I should take you back to your chaperon and leave you there . 
'' Hope had not been listening . 
Her eyes were fixed on a level with his tie , and Clay raised his hand to it in some trepidation . 
'' Oh , those ! '' said Clay . 
The reason I put them on to night is because wearing them is supposed to be a sort of compliment to your host . 
I got in the habit abroad '' I didn't ask you that , '' said Hope , severely . 
I asked you what you did to get them . 
Now begin with the Legion of Honor on the left , and go right on until you come to the end , and please don't skip anything . 
Leave in all the bloodthirsty parts , and please don't be modest . 
'' Like Othello , '' suggested Clay . 
Yes , '' said Hope I will be Desdemona . 
'' Well , Desdemona , it was like this , '' said Clay , laughing . 
I got that medal and that star for serving in the Nile campaign , under Wolseley . 
I was just a plain , common , or garden , sappeur , and I showed the other good for nothings how to dig trenches . 
Well , I contaminated the Foreign Legion for eight months , and then I went to Peru , where I '' You're skipping , '' said Hope . 
How did you get the Legion of Honor ? '' Oh , that ? '' said Clay . 
That was a gallery play I made once when we were chasing some Arabs . 
'' Oh , how can you ? '' cried Hope . 
You didn't do anything of the sort . 
You probably saved the entire regiment . 
'' Well , perhaps I did , '' Clay returned . 
Though I don't remember it , and nobody mentioned it at the time . 
'' Go on about the others , '' said Hope . 
And do try to be truthful . 
'' Well , I got this one from Spain , because I was President of an International Congress of Engineers at Madrid . 
That was the ostensible reason , but the real reason was because I taught the Spanish Commissioners to play poker instead of baccarat . 
The German Emperor gave me this for designing a fort , and the Sultan of Zanzibar gave me this , and no one but the Sultan knows why , and he won't tell . 
He gives them away instead of cigars . 
He was out of cigars the day I called . 
'' What a lot of places you have seen , '' sighed Hope . 
We always go to Homburg and Paris in the summer , and to big hotels in London . 
I love to travel , but I don't love to travel that way , would you ? '' I travel because I have no home , '' said Clay . 
I'm different from the chap that came home because all the other places were shut . 
I go to other places because there is no home open . 
'' What do you mean ? '' said Hope , shaking her head . 
Why have you no home ? '' There was a ranch in Colorado that I used to call home , '' said Clay , but they've cut it up into town lots . 
'' Hope leaned forward with her hands clasped in front of her and her eyes wide open . 
And your father ? '' she said , softly is he is he there , too '' Clay looked at the lighted end of his cigar as he turned it between his fingers . 
My father , Miss Hope , '' he said , was a filibuster , and went out on the Virginius' to help free Cuba , and was shot , against a stone wall . 
We never knew where he was buried . 
'' Oh , forgive me I beg your pardon , '' said Hope . 
There was such distress in her voice that Clay looked at her quickly and saw the tears in her eyes . 
She reached out her hand timidly , and touched for an instant his own rough , sunburned fist , as it lay clenched on his knee . 
I am so sorry , '' she said , so sorry . 
VIII Clay reached the President's Palace during the supper hour , and found Mr. Langham and his daughter at the President's table . 
Madame Alvarez pointed to a place for him beside Alice Langham , who held up her hand in welcome . 
You were very foolish to rush off like that , '' she said . 
It wasn't there , '' said Clay , crowding into the place beside her . 
No , it was here in the carriage all the time . 
Captain Stuart found it for me . 
'' Oh , he did , did he ? '' said Clay that's why I couldn't find it . 
I am hungry , '' he laughed , my ride gave me an appetite . 
'' He looked over and grinned at Stuart , but that gentleman was staring fixedly at the candles on the table before him , his eyes filled with concern . 
Clay observed that Madame Alvarez was covertly watching the young officer , and frowning her disapproval at his preoccupation . 
So he stretched his leg under the table and kicked viciously at Stuart's boots . 
I'm in great trouble , old man , '' was what he said . 
I must see you alone to night . 
I'd ask you to my rooms , but they watch me all the time , and I don't want them to suspect you are in this until they must . 
Go on in the carriage , but get out as you pass the Plaza Bolivar and wait for me by the statue there . 
'' Clay smiled , apparently in great amusement . 
That's very good , '' he said . 
When we get into the carriage , '' said Clay , in a low voice , we will both call to Stuart that we will see him to morrow morning at breakfast . 
'' All right , '' assented King . 
'' And Stuart answered , steadily , Good night until to morrow at one . 
He raised it as he passed each street crossing , and held it high above his head so that its light fell upon the walls of the houses at the four corners . 
As the carriage passed him , he brought his horse to its side with a jerk of the bridle , and swung his lantern in the faces of its occupants . 
Who lives ? '' he challenged . 
Olancho , '' Clay replied . 
Who answers ? '' Free men , '' Clay answered again , and pointed at the star on his coat . 
What does that mean ? '' said Mr. Langham did he take us for highwaymen ? '' It is the custom , '' said Clay . 
We are out rather late , you see . 
'' If I remember rightly , Clay , '' said King , they gave a ball at Brussels on the eve of Waterloo . 
'' I believe they did , '' said Clay , smiling . 
He spoke to the driver to stop the carriage , and stepped down into the street . 
I have to leave you here , '' he said drive on quickly , please I can explain better in the morning . 
The houses about it had fallen into disuse , and the few that were still occupied at the time Clay entered it showed no sign of life . 
The iron railing that had once surrounded it was broken down , and the branches of the trees near were black with sleeping buzzards . 
Two great palms reared themselves in the moonlight at either side , and beat their leaves together in the night wind , whispering and murmuring together like two living conspirators . 
This ought to be safe enough , '' Clay murmured to himself . 
It's just the place for plotting . 
I hope there are no snakes . 
I saw it half a mile away . 
'' Clay rose and crushed his cigar under his foot . 
Now then , old man , '' he demanded briskly , what's up ? It's nearly daylight and we must hurry . 
'' Stuart seated himself heavily on the stone steps , like a man tired in mind and body , and unfolded a printed piece of paper . 
Its blank side was damp and sticky with paste . 
It is too dark for you to see this , '' he began , in a strained voice , so I will translate it to you . 
It is an attack on Madame Alvarez and myself . 
They put them up during the ball , when they knew my men would be at the Palace . 
I have had them scouring the streets for the last two hours tearing them down , but they are all over the place , in the cafe's and clubs . 
They have done what they were meant to do . 
'' Clay took another cigar from his pocket and rolled it between his lips . 
What does it say ? '' he asked . 
It goes over the old ground first . 
Is it explicit ? More explicit than that ? '' Yes , '' said Stuart , grimly . 
It is quite clear what they mean . 
'' Have you got any of them ? '' Clay asked . 
Can you fix it on some one that you can fight ? '' Mendoza did it , of course , '' Stuart answered , but we cannot prove it . 
And if we could , we are not strong enough to take him . 
He has the city full of his men now , and the troops are pouring in every hour . 
'' Well , Alvarez can stop that , can't he ? '' They are coming in for the annual review . 
He can't show the people that he is afraid of his own army . 
'' What are you going to do ? '' What am I going to do ? '' Stuart repeated , dully . 
That is what I want you to tell me . 
There is nothing I can do now . 
I've brought trouble and insult on people who have been kinder to me than my own blood have been . 
Who took me in when I was naked and clothed me , when I hadn't a friend or a sixpence to my name . 
You remember I came here from that row in Colombia with my wound , and I was down with the fever when they found me , and Alvarez gave me the appointment . 
And this is how I reward them . 
If I stay I do more harm . 
Now I have made them both unhappy , and they hate me , and I hate myself , and I have brought nothing but trouble to every one . 
First I made my own people miserable , and now I make my best friends miserable , and I had better be dead . 
I wish I were dead . 
I wish I had never been born . 
'' Clay laid his hand on the other's bowed shoulder and shook him gently . 
Don't talk like that , '' he said it does no good . 
Why do you hate yourself ? '' What ? '' asked Stuart , wearily , without looking up . 
What did you say ? '' You said you had made them hate you , and you added that you hated yourself . 
Well , I can see why they naturally would be angry for the time , at least . 
But why do you hate yourself ? Have you reason to ? '' I don't understand , '' said Stuart . 
Well , I can't make it any plainer , '' Clay replied . 
It isn't a question I will ask . 
But you say you want my advice . 
Well , my advice to my friend and to a man who is not my friend , differ . 
And in this case it depends on whether what that thing '' Clay kicked the paper which had fallen on the ground what that thing says is true . 
'' The younger man looked at the paper below him and then back at Clay , and sprang to his feet . 
Why , damn you , '' he cried , what do you mean ? '' He stood above Clay with both arms rigid at his side and his head bent forward . 
The dawn had just broken , and the two men saw each other in the ghastly gray light of the morning . 
If any man , '' cried Stuart thickly , dares to say that that blackguardly lie is true I'll kill him . 
You or any one else . 
Is that what you mean , damn you ? If it is , say so , and I'll break every bone of your body . 
'' Well , that's much better , '' growled Clay , sullenly . 
The way you went on wishing you were dead and hating yourself made me almost lose faith in mankind . 
Why , this is no time to whimper because the world is full of liars . 
Go out and fight them and show them you are not afraid . 
Confound you , you had me so scared there that I almost thrashed you myself . 
Forgive me , won't you ? '' he begged earnestly . 
He rose and held out his hand and the other took it , doubtfully . 
It was your own fault , you young idiot , '' protested Clay . 
You told your story the wrong way . 
Now go home and get some sleep and I'll be back in a few hours to help you . 
Look ! '' he said . 
He pointed through the trees to the sun that shot up like a red hot disk of heat above the cool green of the mountains . 
See , '' said Clay , God has given us another day . 
Seven battles were fought in seven days once in my country . 
Let's be thankful , old man , that we're NOT dead , but alive to fight our own and other people's battles . 
'' The younger man sighed and pressed Clay's hand again before he dropped it . 
You are very good to me , '' he said . 
I'm not just quite myself this morning . 
I'm a bit nervous , I think . 
You'll surely come , won't you ? '' By noon , '' Clay promised . 
And if it does come , '' he added , don't forget my fifteen hundred men at the mines . 
'' Good ! I won't , '' Stuart replied . 
I'll call on you if I need them . 
'' He raised his fingers mechanically to his helmet in salute , and catching up his sword turned and strode away erect and soldierly through the debris and weeds of the deserted plaza . 
Clay remained motionless on the steps of the pedestal and followed the younger man with his eyes . 
He lifted his eyes to the stern , smooth shaven face of the bronze statue above him that seemed to be watching Stuart's departing figure . 
General Bolivar , '' Clay said , as he lit his cigar , observe that young man . 
He is a soldier and a gallant gentleman . 
You , sir , were a great soldier the greatest this God forsaken country will ever know and you were , sir , an ardent lover . 
I ask you to salute that young man as I do , and to wish him well . 
IX Clay slept for three hours . 
As they left the Palms they met Hope returning from a morning ride on the Alameda , and Clay begged her , with much concern , not to ride abroad again . 
There was a difference in his tone toward her . 
Why ? '' asked Hope , eagerly . 
'' I'd be safe with you , though , '' said Hope , smiling persuasively upon the three men . 
Won't you take me with you , please ? '' Hope , '' said young Langham in the tone of the elder brother's brief authority , you must go home at once . 
I don't want to , '' she said . 
I'll bet you a box of cigars I can beat you to the veranda by fifty yards , '' said MacWilliams , turning his horse's head . 
Hope clasped her sailor hat in one hand and swung her whip with the other . 
I think not , '' she cried , and disappeared with a flutter of skirts and a scurry of flying pebbles . 
At times , '' said Clay , MacWilliams shows an unexpected knowledge of human nature . 
'' Yes , he did quite right , '' assented Langham , nodding his head mysteriously . 
We've no time for girls at present , have we ? '' No , indeed , '' said Clay , hiding any sign of a smile . 
Langham breathed deeply at the thought of the part he was to play in this coming struggle , and remained respectfully silent as they trotted toward the city . 
While MacWilliams and Langham laughed and disputed over a game of dominoes , the older men exchanged , under cover of their chatter , the few words which they had met to speak . 
The manifestoes , Stuart said , had failed of their purpose . 
Alvarez had treated him like a son , and bade him be patient . 
He held that Caesar's wife was above suspicion because she was Caesar's wife , and that no canards posted at midnight could affect his faith in his wife or in his friend . 
What nonsense ! '' exclaimed Clay . 
What is a military dictatorship without soldiers ? Can't he see that the army is with Mendoza ? '' No , '' Stuart replied . 
Rojas and I were with him all the morning . 
Rojas is an old trump , Clay . 
He's not bright and he's old fashioned but he is honest . 
And the people know it . 
If I had Rojas for a chief instead of Alvarez , I'd arrest Mendoza with my own hand , and I wouldn't be afraid to take him to the carcel through the streets . 
The people wouldn't help him . 
But the President doesn't dare . 
But you can't tell what any one of them will do for a drink or a dollar . 
They're no more soldiers than these waiters . 
They're bandits in uniform , and they'll kill for the man that pays best . 
'' Then why doesn't Alvarez pay them ? '' Clay growled . 
Stuart looked away and lowered his eyes to the table . 
He hasn't the money , I suppose , '' he said , evasively . 
He he has transferred every cent of it into drafts on Rothschild . 
They are at the house now , representing five millions of dollars in gold and her jewels , too packed ready for flight . 
'' Then he does expect trouble ? '' said Clay . 
You told me '' They're all alike you know them , '' said Stuart . 
They won't believe they're in danger until the explosion comes , but they always have a special train ready , and they keep the funds of the government under their pillows . 
He engaged apartments on the Avenue Kleber six months ago . 
'' Bah ! '' said Clay . 
Why don't you quit him ? '' Stuart raised his eyes and dropped them again , and Clay sighed . 
I'm sorry , '' he said . 
MacWilliams interrupted them in an indignant stage whisper . 
Say , how long have we got to keep up this fake game ? '' he asked . 
I don't know anything about dominoes , and neither does Ted . 
Tell us what you've been saying . 
Is there going to be trouble ? If there is , Ted and I want to be in it . 
We are looking for trouble . 
'' Clay had tipped back his chair , and was surveying the restaurant and the blazing plaza beyond its open front with an expression of cheerful unconcern . 
Two men were reading the morning papers near the door , and two others were dragging through a game of dominoes in a far corner . 
The heat of midday had settled on the place , and the waiters dozed , with their chairs tipped back against the walls . 
The newcomer turned with one hand on the glass case and swept the room carelessly with his eyes . 
They were hard blue eyes under straight eyebrows . 
Their owner was dressed unobtrusively in a suit of rough tweed , and this and his black hat , and the fact that he was smooth shaven , distinguished him as a foreigner . 
His companions turned and followed the direction of his eyes , but saw nothing of interest in the newcomer . 
He looked as though he might be a concession hunter from the States , or a Manchester drummer , prepared to offer six months' credit on blankets and hardware . 
Clay rose and strode across the room , circling the tables in such a way that he could keep himself between the stranger and the door . 
At his approach the new comer turned his back and fumbled with his change on the counter . 
Captain Burke , I believe ? '' said Clay . 
The stranger bit the cigar he had just purchased , and shook his head . 
I am very glad to see you , '' Clay continued . 
Sit down , won't you ? I want to talk with you . 
'' I think you've made a mistake , '' the stranger answered , quietly . 
My name is '' Colonel , perhaps , then , '' said Clay . 
I might have known it . 
I congratulate you , Colonel . 
'' The man looked at Clay for an instant , with the cigar clenched between his teeth and his blue eyes fixed steadily on the other's face . 
Clay waved his hand again invitingly toward a table , and the man shrugged his shoulders and laughed , and , pulling a chair toward him , sat down . 
Come over here , boys , '' Clay called . 
I want you to meet an old friend of mine , Captain Burke . 
'' The man called Burke stared at the three men as they crossed the room and seated themselves at the table , and nodded to them in silence . 
We have here , '' said Clay , gayly , but in a low voice , the key to the situation . 
This is the gentleman who supplies Mendoza with the sinews of war . 
Captain Burke is a brave soldier and a citizen of my own or of any country , indeed , which happens to have the most sympathetic Consul General . 
'' Burke smiled grimly , with a condescending nod , and putting away the cigar , took out a brier pipe and began to fill it from his tobacco pouch . 
The Captain is a man of few words and extremely modest about himself , '' Clay continued , lightly so I must tell you who he is myself . 
He is a promoter of revolutions . 
That is his business , a professional promoter of revolutions , and that is what makes me so glad to see him again . 
He knows all about the present crisis here , and he is going to tell us all he knows as soon as he fills his pipe . 
I ought to warn you , Burke , '' he added , that this is Captain Stuart , in charge of the police and the President's cavalry troop . 
So , you see , whatever you say , you will have one man who will listen to you . 
'' Burke crossed one short fat leg over the other , and crowded the tobacco in the bowl of his pipe with his thumb . 
I thought you were in Chili , Clay , '' he said . 
No , you didn't think I was in Chili , '' Clay replied , kindly . 
I left Chili two years ago . 
The Captain and I met there , '' he explained to the others , when Balmaceda was trying to make himself dictator . 
The Captain was on the side of the Congressionalists , and was furnishing arms and dynamite . 
The Captain is always on the winning side , at least he always has been up to the present . 
He is not a creature of sentiment are you , Burke ? The Captain believes with Napoleon that God is on the side that has the heaviest artillery . 
'' Burke lighted his pipe and drummed absentmindedly on the table with his match box . 
I can't afford to be sentimental , '' he said . 
'' Of course not , '' Clay assented , cheerfully . 
He looked at Burke and laughed , as though the sight of him recalled pleasant memories . 
I wish I could give these boys an idea of how clever you are , Captain , '' he said . 
The Captain was the first man , for instance , to think of packing cartridges in tubs of lard , and of sending rifles in piano cases . 
You may remember , boys , that when Dufferin saved Arabi from hanging , the British shipped him to Ceylon as a political prisoner . 
Well , the Captain was sent by Arabi's followers in Egypt to bring him back to lead a second rebellion . 
And you never got a cent for it did you , Burke ? '' Burke shook his head and frowned . 
'' And then you headed Granville Prior's expedition for buried treasure off the island of Cocos , didn't you ? '' said Clay . 
Go on , tell them about it . 
You ought to write a book about your different business ventures , Burke , indeed you ought but then , '' Clay added , smiling , nobody would believe you . 
'' Burke rubbed his chin , thoughtfully , with his fingers , and looked modestly at the ceiling , and the two younger boys gazed at him with open mouthed interest . 
There ain't anything in buried treasure , '' he said , after a pause , except the money that's sunk in the fitting out . 
It sounds good , but it's all foolishness . 
'' All foolishness , eh ? '' said Clay , encouragingly . 
Caroline Brewer' cleared from Key West for Curacao , with cargo of sewing machines and ploughs beached below Maracaibo thirty five thousand rounds and two thousand rifles at twenty bolivars apiece . 
'' Of course , '' said Clay , in a tone of genuine appreciation . 
I might have known you'd be in that . 
Well , I don't know , '' Burke demurred . 
You take in the cost of leasing the boat and provisioning her , and the crew's wages , and the cost of the cargo that cuts into profits . 
Cost me about twelve hundred dollars in repairs . 
He met Clay's look with eyes as undisturbed as his own . 
But they won't touch it down here , '' he went on . 
It doesn't appeal to 'em . 
It's too expensive , and they'd rather see the smoke . 
It makes them think '' How long did you expect to stay here ? '' Clay interrupted . 
How long ? '' repeated Burke , like a man in a witness box who is trying to gain time . 
Well , I was thinking of leaving by Friday , and taking a mule train over to Bogota instead of waiting for the steamer to Colon . 
'' He blew a mouthful of smoke into the air and watched it drifting toward the door with apparent interest . 
The Santiago' leaves here Saturday for New York . 
I guess you had better wait over for her , '' Clay said . 
I'll engage your passage , and , in the meantime , Captain Stuart here will see that they treat you well in the cuartel . 
What am I going to the cuartel for ? '' he asked . 
Well , the public good , I suppose , '' laughed Clay . 
I'm sorry , but it's your own fault . 
You shouldn't have shown yourself here at all . 
'' What have you got to do with it ? '' asked Burke , calmly , as he began to refill his pipe . 
He had the air of a man who saw nothing before him but an afternoon of pleasant discourse and leisurely inactivity . 
You know what I've got to do with it , '' Clay replied . 
I've got our concession to look after . 
'' Well , you're not running the town , too , are you ? '' asked Burke . 
No , but I'm going to run you out of it , '' Clay answered . 
'' Burke turned his head and looked over his shoulder at Stuart . 
You taking orders from Mr. Clay , to day , Captain Stuart ? '' he asked . 
Yes , '' Stuart answered , smiling . 
I agree with Mr. Clay in whatever he thinks right . 
'' Oh , well , in that case , '' said Burke , rising reluctantly , with a protesting sigh , I guess I'd better call on the American minister . 
He's in Ecuador on his annual visit , '' said Clay . 
Indeed ! That's bad for me , '' muttered Burke , as though in much concern . 
Well , then , I'll ask you to let me see our consul here . 
'' Certainly , '' Clay assented , with alacrity . 
Mr. Langham , this young gentleman's father , got him his appointment , so I've no doubt he'll be only too glad to do anything for a friend of ours . 
'' Burke raised his eyes and looked inquiringly at Clay , as though to assure himself that this was true , and Clay smiled back at him . 
Oh , very well , '' Burke said . 
'' That's no good , either , '' said Clay , shaking his head . 
If there's any doubt about that we've only got to cable to Rio Janeiro to either legation . 
But what's the use ? They know me here , and they don't know you , and I do . 
You'll have to go to jail and stay there . 
'' Oh , well , if you put it that way , I'll go , '' said Burke . 
But , '' he added , in a lower voice , it's too late , Clay . 
'' The expression of amusement on Clay's face , and his ease of manner , fell from him at the words , and he pulled Burke back into the chair again . 
What do you mean ? '' he asked , anxiously . 
I mean just that , it's too late , '' Burke answered . 
I don't mind going to jail . 
I won't be there long . 
My work's all done and paid for . 
I was only staying on to see the fun at the finish , to see you fellows made fools of . 
'' Oh , you're sure of that , are you ? '' asked Clay . 
My dear boy ! '' exclaimed the American , with a suggestion in his speech of his Irish origin , as his interest rose . 
Of course I can't say when they mean to strike . 
I don't know , and I wouldn't tell you if I did . 
But when they do strike there'll be no striking back . 
It'll be all over but the cheering . 
'' Burke's tone was calm and positive . 
He held the centre of the stage now , and he looked from one to the other of the serious faces around him with an expression of pitying amusement . 
Alvarez may get off , and so may Madame Alvarez , '' he added , lowering his voice and turning his face away from Stuart . 
But not if she shows herself in the streets , and not if she tries to take those drafts and jewels with her . 
'' Oh , you know that , do you ? '' interrupted Clay . 
I know nothing , '' Burke replied . 
At least , nothing to what the rest of them know . 
That's only the gossip I pick up at headquarters . 
I've delivered my goods and given my receipt for the money , and that's all I care about . 
But if it will make an old friend feel any more comfortable to have me in jail , why , I'll go , that's all . 
'' Clay sat with pursed lips looking at Stuart . 
The two boys leaned with their elbows on the tables and stared at Burke , who was searching leisurely through his pockets for his match box . 
Clay slapped the table with an exclamation of impatience . 
After all , this is only a matter of business , '' he said , with all of us . 
What do you say ? That's better than going to jail . 
Tell us what they mean to do , and who is to do it , and I'll let you name your own figure , and I'll guarantee you that they'll meet it . 
As long as you've no sentiment , you might as well fight on the side that will pay best . 
'' Burke opened his lips as though to speak , and then shut them again , closely . 
If the others thought that he was giving Clay's proposition a second and more serious thought , he was quick to undeceive them . 
There ARE men in the business who do that sort of thing , '' he said . 
They sell arms to one man , and sell the fact that he's got them to the deputy marshals , and sell the story of how smart they've been to the newspapers . 
And they never make any more sales after that . 
No , I've told you enough , and if you think I'm not safe at large , why I'm quite ready to take a ride with your young friend here . 
'' MacWilliams rose with alacrity , and beaming with pleasure at the importance of the duty thrust upon him . 
The young 'un seems to like the job , '' he said . 
You wouldn't think so if you knew better , '' said Burke . 
My friends have been watching us while we have been talking in there for the last hour . 
'' MacWilliams changed his seat to the one opposite his prisoner , and peered up and down the street in some anxiety . 
I suppose you know there's an answer to that , don't you ? '' he asked . 
Well , the answer is , that if you nod your head once , you lose the top of it . 
'' Burke gave an exclamation of disgust , and gazed at his zealous guardian with an expression of trepidation and unconcealed disapproval . 
You're not armed , are you ? '' he asked . 
Why not ? '' he said these are rather heavy weather times , just at present , thanks to you and your friends . 
Why , you seem rather afraid of fire arms , '' he added , with the intolerance of youth . 
The Irish American touched the young man on the knee , and lifted his hat . 
Hope opened her lips to speak , and then closed them again , and smiled with pleasurable excitement . 
A moment later King , who sat on her right , called one of the servants to his side and whispered some instructions , pointing meanwhile at the wine upon the table . 
And a minute after , Hope saw the white figure of the servant cross the garden and approach the sentinel . 
The men did not leave the table with the ladies , as was their custom , but remained in the dining room , and drew their chairs closer together . 
Mr. Langham would not believe that the downfall of the Government was as imminent as the others believed it to be . 
Mr. Langham said he did not think the people would tramp five miles into the country seeking vengeance . 
The run would take but a few hours , and the sight of the vessel's white hull in the harbor would , he thought , have a salutary effect upon the revolutionists . 
But Mr. Langham said , firmly , that he would not ask for help until he needed it . 
Well , I'm sorry , '' said Clay . 
I should very much like to have that man of war here . 
However , if you say no , we will try to get along without her . 
But , for the present , I think you had better imagine yourself back in New York , and let us have an entirely free hand . 
We've gone too far to drop out , '' he went on , laughing at the sight of Mr. Langham's gloomy countenance . 
We've got to fight them now . 
It's against human nature not to do it . 
'' Mr. Langham looked appealingly at his son and at King . 
They both smiled back at him in unanimous disapproval of his policy of non interference . 
Oh , very well , '' he said , at last . 
You gentlemen can go ahead , kill , burn , and destroy if you wish . 
But , considering the fact that it is my property you are all fighting about , I really think I might have something to say in the matter . 
'' Mr. Langham gazed about him helplessly , and shook his head . 
Well , what is it ? '' she said . 
What is what ? '' laughed Clay . 
He seated himself on the rail of the veranda , with his face to the avenue and the driveway leading to the house . 
'' Why are the men guarding the Palms , and why did you go to the Plaza Bolivar this morning at daybreak ? Alice says you left them there . 
I want to know what it means . 
I am nearly as old as Ted , and he knows . 
The men wouldn't tell me . 
'' What men ? '' King's men from the Vesta' . 
I saw some of them dodging around in the bushes , and I went to find out what they were doing , and I walked into fifteen of them at your office . 
'' We'll put you in the carcel , '' said Clay , if you go spying on our forces . 
Your father doesn't wish you to know anything about it , but , since you have found it out for yourself , you might as well know what little there is to know . 
Mendoza is getting ready to start his revolution , or , rather , he has started it . 
'' Why don't you stop him ? '' asked Hope . 
You are very flattering , '' said Clay . 
Even if I could stop him , it's not my business to do it as yet . 
I have to wait until he interferes with me , or my mines , or my workmen . 
Alvarez is the man who should stop him , but he is afraid . 
We cannot do anything until he makes the first move . 
If I were the President , I'd have Mendoza shot to morrow morning and declare martial law . 
Then I'd arrest everybody I didn't like , and levy forced loans on all the merchants , and sail away to Paris and live happy ever after . 
That's what Mendoza would do if he caught any one plotting against him . 
And that's what Alvarez should do , too , according to his lights , if he had the courage of his convictions , and of his education . 
I like to see a man play his part properly , don't you ? If you are an emperor , you ought to conduct yourself like one , as our German friend does . 
Or if you are a prize fighter , you ought to be a human bulldog . 
There's no such thing as a gentlemanly pugilist , any more than there can be a virtuous burglar . 
And if you're a South American Dictator , you can't afford to be squeamish about throwing your enemies into jail or shooting them for treason . 
The way to dictate is to dictate , not to hide indoors all day while your wife plots for you . 
'' Does she do that ? '' asked Hope . 
But it would be better , perhaps , for her if she went as quietly as possible , when she does go . 
'' Is our Captain Stuart in danger , too ? '' the girl continued , anxiously . 
Alice says they put up placards about him all over the city last night . 
She saw his men tearing them down as she was coming home . 
What has he done ? '' Nothing , '' Clay answered , shortly . 
He happens to be in a false position , that's all . 
They think he is here because he is not wanted in his own country that is not so . 
That is not the reason he remains here . 
I hope you will be very kind to Stuart and believe well of him , and that you will listen to no evil against him . 
He is a lonely little chap , and he has no sense of humor to help him out of his difficulties , but he is a very brave gentleman . 
And he is here fighting for men who are not worthy to hold his horse's bridle , because of a woman . 
And I tell you this because you will hear many lies about him and about her . 
He serves her with the same sort of chivalric devotion that his ancestors felt for the woman whose ribbons they tied to their lances , and for whom they fought in the lists . 
'' I understand , '' Hope said , softly . 
I am glad you told me . 
'' She sighed and shook her head . 
I wish they'd let you manage it for them , '' she said . 
I had better stick to digging holes in the ground . 
That is all I seem to be good for . 
'' Hope looked up at him , quickly , in surprise . 
What do you mean by that ? '' she demanded . 
There was a tone of such sharp reproach in her voice that Clay felt himself put on the defensive . 
I mean nothing by it , '' he said . 
Your sister and I had a talk the other day about a man's making the best of himself , and it opened my eyes to to many things . 
It was a very healthy lesson . 
'' It could not have been a very healthy lesson , '' Hope replied , severely , if it makes you speak of your work slightingly , as you did then . 
That didn't sound at all natural , or like you . 
It started this way , '' Clay began , carefully . 
Your sister said she did not think very much of what I had done , but she explained kindly that she hoped for better things from me . 
I can't urge in my behalf that I happen to have been so fortunate as to have gained the good will of yourself or your sister . 
That is quite reason enough to me , perhaps , for having lived , but it might not appeal to them . 
I want to feel that I have accomplished something outside of myself something that will remain after I go . 
Even if it is only a breakwater or a patent coupling . 
It is the work that will tell . 
It meant so much to me , and it hurt me to find it meant so little to others . 
'' Hope remained silent for some time , but the rigidity of her attitude , and the tightness with which she pressed her lips together , showed that her mind was deeply occupied . 
They both sat silent for some few moments , looking down toward the distant lights of the city . 
She does not know how little it is . 
And you are wrong as to what they will ask you at the end . 
And we like you because you are all of these things , and because you look at life so cheerfully , and are unafraid . 
We do not like men because they build railroads , or because they are prime ministers . 
We like them for what they are themselves . 
And as to your work ! '' Hope added , and then paused in eloquent silence . 
I think it is a grand work , and a noble work , full of hardships and self sacrifices . 
I do not know of any man who has done more with his life than you have done with yours . 
'' She stopped and controlled her voice before she spoke again . 
You should be very proud , '' she said . 
Clay lowered his eyes and sat silent , looking down the roadway . 
'' Hope turned and looked at him with eyes full of such sweet meaning that he was forced to turn his own away . 
I could trust both , I think , '' the girl said . 
Clay drew a quick , deep breath , and started to his feet , as though he had thrown off the restraint under which he had held himself . 
The clatter of horses' hoofs coming toward them at a gallop broke in rudely upon the tense stillness of the moment , but neither noticed it . 
Hope raised her head , and Clay moved toward her eagerly . 
The horses were within a hundred yards . 
Before Hope could speak , the sentry's voice rang out in a hoarse , sharp challenge , like an alarm of fire on the silent night . 
Halt ! '' they heard him cry . 
And as the horses tore past him , and their riders did not turn to look , he shouted again , Halt , damn you ! '' and fired . 
Clay glanced angrily down the avenue , and turned beseechingly to Hope . 
Go , '' she said . 
See what is wrong , '' and moved away as though she already felt that he could act more freely when she was not near him . 
Come back , '' Clay shouted to them . 
He was only obeying orders . 
That's one of King's sentries . 
'' Oh , is that it ? '' said Stuart , in matter of fact tones , as he turned again to the house . 
Tell him to fire lower next time . 
And , Clay , see that no one leaves here without permission no one . 
That's more important , even , than keeping them out . 
'' King , will you '' Clay began . 
All right , General , '' laughed King , and walked away to meet his sailors , who came running up the hill in great anxiety . 
The sight filled young Langham with a disquieting fear that he had missed something . 
Stuart looked about him , and pulled briskly at his gauntlets . 
King and his sailors were grouped together on the grass before the house . 
Mr. Langham and his daughters , and Clay , were standing on the steps , and the servants were peering around the corners of the house . 
Stuart saluted Mr. Langham , as though to attract his especial attention , and then addressed himself in a low tone to Clay . 
It's come , '' he said . 
We've been in it since dinner time , and we've got a whole night's work cut out for you . 
'' He was laughing with excitement , and paused for a moment to gain breath . 
I'll tell you the worst of it first . 
Mendoza has sent word to Alvarez that he wants the men at the mines to be present at the review to morrow . 
He says they must take part . 
He wrote a most insolent letter . 
Alvarez got out of it by saying that the men were under contract to you , and that you must give your permission first . 
Mendoza sent me word that if you would not let the men come , he would go out and fetch them in him self . 
'' Indeed ! '' growled Clay . 
Kirkland needs those men to morrow to load ore cars for Thursday's steamer . 
And if he comes to take them to morrow , he'll have to bring his army with him to do it . 
And he couldn't do it then , Mr. Langham , '' Clay cried , turning to that gentleman , if I had better weapons . 
The five thousand dollars I wanted you to spend on rifles , sir , two months ago , might have saved you several millions to morrow . 
'' Clay's words seemed to bear some special significance to Stuart and MacWilliams , for they both laughed , and Stuart pushed Clay up the steps before him . 
Come inside , '' he said . 
That is why we are here . 
MacWilliams has found out where Burke hid his shipment of arms . 
We are going to try and get them to night . 
'' He hurried into the dining room , and the others grouped themselves about the table . 
Tell them about it , MacWilliams , '' Stuart commanded . 
I will see that no one overhears you . 
'' MacWilliams was pushed into Mr. Langham's place at the head of the long table , and the others dragged their chairs up close around him . 
King put the candles at the opposite end of the table , and set some decanters and glasses in the centre . 
To look as though we were just enjoying ourselves , '' he explained , pleasantly . 
Mr. Langham , with his fine , delicate fingers beating nervously on the table , observed the scene as an on looker , rather than as the person chiefly interested . 
He smiled as he appreciated the incongruity of the tableau , and the contrast which the actors presented to the situation . 
Well , it happened like this , '' MacWilliams began , nervously , and addressing himself to Clay . 
Stuart and I put Burke safely in a cell by himself . 
It was one of the old ones that face the street . 
There was a narrow window in it , about eight feet above the floor , and no means of his reaching it , even if he stood on a chair . 
We stationed two troopers before the door , and sent out to a cafe' across the street for our dinners . 
I finished mine about nine o'clock , and said Good night' to Stuart , and started to come out here . 
I went across the street first , however , to give the restaurant man some orders about Burke's breakfast . 
He looked frightened and anxious , and as I wasn't taking chances on anything , I stepped back into the restaurant and watched him through the window . 
He was standing , I noticed then , directly under the third window from the door of the jail . 
That was the window of Burke's cell . 
When I grasped that fact I got out my gun and walked to the door of the restaurant . 
I thought that was my cue , and I ran across the street with my gun pointed , and shouted to him to give me the paper . 
Stuart was pretty mad when he saw his policeman all bloody . 
We put him ourselves into a cell where he could not communicate with any one , and then we read the paper . 
Stuart has it , '' said MacWilliams , pushing back his chair , and he'll tell you the rest . 
'' There was a pause , in which every one seemed to take time to breathe , and then a chorus of questions and explanations . 
King lifted his glass to MacWilliams , and nodded . 
Well done , Condor , '' he quoted , smiling . 
Yes , '' said Clay , tapping the younger man on the shoulder as he passed him . 
Now show us the paper , Stuart . 
'' Stuart pulled the candles toward him , and spread a slip of paper on the table . 
Burke did this up in one of those paper boxes for wax matches , '' he explained , and weighted it with a twenty dollar gold piece . 
MacWilliams kept the gold piece , I believe . 
'' Going to use it for a scarf pin , '' explained MacWilliams , in parenthesis . 
Sort of war medal , like the Chief's , '' he added , smiling . 
This is in Spanish , '' Stuart explained . 
He says , I cannot keep the appointment , as I have been arrested . 
He is the best man the others have . 
We think he rubbed that out through good feeling toward Clay . 
There seems to be no other reason . 
He's a very good sort , this old Burke , I think . 
'' Well , never mind him it was very decent of him , anyway , '' said Clay . 
'' I cannot keep the appointment , as I have been arrested , '' repeated Stuart . 
I landed the goods last night in safety . 
I could not come in when first signalled , as the wind and tide were both off shore . 
But we got all the stuff stored away by morning . 
Your agent paid me in full and got my receipt . 
That is the point of the note for us , of course , '' Stuart interrupted himself to say . 
'' Within sight of the ore trains ! '' exclaimed Clay . 
There are no ore trains but ours . 
It must be along the line of the road . 
It's an old road , and hasn't been travelled over for years , but it could be used . 
No , '' he added , as though answering the doubt in Clay's mind , there is no other place . 
'' But the fortress is so conspicuous , '' Clay demurred the nearest rampart is within twenty feet of the road . 
Don't you remember we measured it when we thought of laying the double track ? '' That is just what Burke says , '' urged Stuart . 
'' Have you told any one of this ? '' Clay asked . 
What have you done so far ? '' We've done nothing , '' said Stuart . 
We lost our nerve when we found out how much we knew , and we decided we'd better leave it to you . 
'' Whatever we do must be done at once , '' said Clay . 
They will come for the arms to night , most likely , and we must be there first . 
I agree with you entirely about the place . 
It is only a question now of our being on time . 
There are two things to do . 
The first thing is , to keep them from getting the arms , and the second is , if we are lucky , to secure them for ourselves . 
If we can pull it off properly , we ought to have those rifles in the mines before midnight . 
If we are hurried or surprised , we must dump them off the fort into the sea . 
'' Clay laughed and looked about him at the men . 
We are only following out General Bolivar's saying When you want arms take them from the enemy . 
Now , there are three places we must cover . 
This house , first of all , '' he went on , inclining his head quickly toward the two sisters , then the city , and the mines . 
Stuart's place , of course , is at the Palace . 
King must take care of this house and those in it , and MacWilliams and Langham and I must look after the arms . 
We must organize two parties , and they had better approach the fort from here and from the mines at the same time . 
I will need you to do some telegraphing for me , Mac and , King , I must ask you for some more men from the yacht . 
How many have you ? '' King answered that there were fifteen men still on board , ten of whom would be of service . 
He added that they were all well equipped for fighting . 
I believe King's a pirate in business hours , '' Clay said , smiling . 
All right , that's good . 
Now go tell ten of them to meet me at the round house in half an hour . 
None of the workmen must see our party start . 
Do you agree with me ? '' he asked , turning to those in the group about him . 
Has anybody any criticism to make ? '' Stuart and King looked at one another ruefully and laughed . 
I don't see what good I am doing in town , '' protested Stuart . 
Yes , and I don't see where I come in , either , '' growled King , in aggrieved tones . 
These youngsters can't do it all besides I ought to have charge of my own men . 
'' Mutiny , '' said Clay , in some perplexity , rank mutiny . 
Why , it's only a picnic . 
There are but three men there . 
We don't need sixteen white men to frighten off three Olanchoans . 
'' I'll tell you what to do , '' cried Hope , with the air of having discovered a plan which would be acceptable to every one , let's all go . 
'' Well , I certainly mean to go , '' said Mr. Langham , decidedly . 
So some one else must stay here . 
Ted , you will have to look after your sisters . 
'' The son and heir smiled upon his parent with a look of affectionate wonder , and shook his head at him in fond and pitying disapproval . 
I'll stay , '' said King . 
I have never seen such ungallant conduct . 
Ladies , '' he said , I will protect your lives and property , and we'll invent something exciting to do ourselves , even if we have to bombard the Capital . 
XI There was no chance for Clay to speak to Hope again , though he felt the cruelty of having to leave her with everything between them in this interrupted state . 
'' MacWilliams called Kirkland to the office at the other end of the Company's wire , and explained the situation to him . 
He was also directed to bring with him as many of the American workmen as he could trust to keep silent concerning the events of the evening . 
Clay motioned to the men to sit down , and , beckoning to MacWilliams , directed him to go on ahead and reconnoitre . 
If you fire we will come up , '' he said . 
Get back here as soon as you can . 
'' Aren't you going to make sure first that Kirkland is on the other side of the fort ? '' MacWilliams whispered . 
Clay replied that he was certain Kirkland had already arrived . 
He had a shorter run than ours , and he wired you he was ready to start when we were , didn't he ? '' MacWilliams nodded . 
Well , then , he is there . 
I can count on Kirk . 
'' MacWilliams pulled at his heavy boots and hid them in the bushes , with his helmet over them to mark the spot . 
I feel as though I was going to rob a bank , '' he chuckled , as he waved his hand and crept off into the underbrush . 
He dropped on his knees between Clay and Langham . 
The guns are there all right , '' he whispered , panting , and there are only three men guarding them . 
They are all sitting on the beach smoking . 
I hustled around the fort and came across the whole outfit in the second gallery . 
It looks like a row of coffins , ten coffins and about twenty little boxes and kegs . 
I'm sure that means they are coming for them to night . 
They've not tried to hide them nor to cover them up . 
All we've got to do is to walk down on the guards and tell them to throw up their hands . 
'' Clay jumped to his feet . 
Come on , '' he said . 
Wait till I get my boots on first , '' begged MacWilliams . 
I wouldn't go over those cinders again in my bare feet for all the buried treasure in the Spanish Main . 
You can make all the noise you want the waves will drown it . 
'' With MacWilliams to show them the way , the men scrambled up the outer wall of the fort and crossed the moss covered ramparts at the run . 
Below them , on the sandy beach , were three men sitting around a driftwood fire that had sunk to a few hot ashes . 
You and Ted can have them , '' he said . 
Go with him , Langham . 
As MacWilliams raised his revolver one of the three , who was cooking something over the fire , raised his head and with a yell of warning flung himself toward his rifle . 
Now gag them , '' said Clay . 
Does anybody here know how to gag a man ? '' he asked . 
'' Better make him tell what he knows first , '' suggested Langham . 
But the Spaniards were too terrified at what they had done , or at what they had failed to do , to further commit themselves . 
Tie us and gag us , '' one of them begged . 
Let them find us so . 
It is the kindest thing you can do for us . 
'' Thank you , sir , '' said Clay . 
That is what I wanted to know . 
They are coming to night , then . 
'' The three sentries were bound and hidden at the base of the wall , with a sailor to watch them . 
He was a young man with a high sense of the importance of his duties , and he enlivened the prisoners by poking them in the ribs whenever they moved . 
Clay deemed it impossible to signal Kirkland as they had arranged to do , as they could not know now how near those who were coming for the arms might be . 
So MacWilliams was sent back for his engine , and a few minutes later they heard it rumble heavily past the fort on its way to bring up Kirkland and the flat cars . 
Clay explored the lower chambers of the fort and found the boxes as MacWilliams had described them . 
On arriving there Kirkland's train was switched to the siding that led to the magazine in which was stored the rack arock and dynamite used in the blasting . 
Before Clay left he had one of the boxes broken open , and found that it held a hundred Mannlicher rifles . 
Good ! '' he said . 
I'd give a thousand dollars in gold if I could bring Mendoza out here and show him his own men armed with his own Mannlichers and dying for a shot at him . 
They look like a swarm of hornets after some one has chucked a stone through their nest , '' laughed MacWilliams . 
'' Clay turned to the sailors in the car behind them . 
Lie down , men , '' he said . 
And don't any of you fire unless I tell you to . 
Let them do all the shooting . 
This isn't our fight yet , and , besides , they can't hit a locomotive standing still , certainly not when it's going at full speed . 
'' Suppose they've torn the track up ? '' said MacWilliams , grinning . 
We'd look sort of silly flying through the air . 
'' Oh , they've not sense enough to think of that , '' said Clay . 
Besides , they don't know it was we who took their arms away , yet . 
'' MacWilliams opened the throttle gently , and the train moved slowly forward , gaining speed at each revolution of the wheels . 
That sounds a little as though they thought we had something to do with it , '' said MacWilliams , grimly . 
If they don't look out some one will get hurt . 
Low bridge , '' cried MacWilliams , with a fierce chuckle . 
Now , watch her ! '' He threw open the throttle as far as it would go , and the engine answered to his touch like a race horse to the whip . 
It seemed to spring from the track into the air . 
You got left , didn't you ? '' he shouted . 
Thank you for the Mannlichers . 
Let them shout , '' cried Clay . 
Everybody will have to know now . 
It's begun at last , '' he said , with a laugh of relief . 
And we took the first trick , '' said MacWilliams , as he ran his engine slowly into the railroad yard . 
Do the conquering heroes come ? '' shouted King . 
They do , '' young Langham cried , joyously . 
We've got all their arms , and they shot at us . 
We have been so frightened and anxious about you , '' said Miss Langham . 
Hope held out her hand to Clay and greeted him with a quiet , happy smile , that was in contrast to the excitement and confusion that reigned about them . 
I knew you would come back safely , '' she said . 
And the pressure of her hand seemed to add to me . 
'' XII The day of the review rose clear and warm , tempered by a light breeze from the sea . 
He is afraid of them since last night , '' was Clay's comment , as he passed the note on to MacWilliams . 
He's quite right , they might do him harm . 
'' The second note was from Stuart . 
His troopers had charged the sidewalk and carried off six of the men to the carcel . 
Stuart added that he had absolute confidence in the former . 
Stuart begged Clay to join him as quickly as possible . 
Tell them , if they are loyal , they can live in their shacks rent free hereafter , '' wrote Clay . 
They are always asking for that . 
It's a cheap generosity , '' he added aloud to Mr. Langham , because we've never been able to collect rent from any of them yet . 
'' At noon young Langham ordered the best three horses in the stables to be brought to the door of the Palms for Clay , MacWilliams , and himself . 
Don't you think I might see the review if I went on horseback ? '' Hope asked . 
I could get away then , if there should be any trouble . 
'' Clay answered with a look of such alarm and surprise that Hope laughed . 
See the review ! I should say not , '' he exclaimed . 
I don't even want Ted to be there . 
'' Oh , that's always the way , '' said Hope , I miss everything . 
I think I'll come , however , anyhow . 
The servants are all going , and I'll go with them disguised in a turban . 
'' As the men neared Valencia , Clay turned in his saddle , and asked Langham if he thought his sister would really venture into the town . 
She'd better not let me catch her , if she does , '' the fond brother replied . 
She was very white , and the powder on her face gave her an added and unnatural pallor . 
Madame Alvarez sank back rigidly on her cushions , and her eyes flashed with anticipation and excitement . 
She drew her mantilla a little closer about her shoulders , with a nervous shudder as though she were cold . 
Suddenly the look of anxiety in her eyes changed to one of annoyance , and she beckoned Clay imperiously to the side of the carriage . 
Look , '' she said , pointing across the square . 
If I am not mistaken that is Miss Langham , Miss Hope . 
The one on the black horse it must be she , for none of the native ladies ride . 
It is not safe for her to be here alone . 
Go , '' she commanded , bring her here to me . 
Put her next to the carriage , or perhaps she will be safer with you among the troopers . 
'' Clay had recognized Hope before Madame Alvarez had finished speaking , and dashed off at a gallop , skirting the line of carriages . 
Why , it's the same thing as a polo match , '' protested Hope , as Clay pulled up angrily beside the victoria . 
I always ride over to polo alone at Newport , at least with James , '' she added , nodding her head toward the servant . 
I knew she wouldn't wait for me . 
'' I asked you not to come , '' Clay said to Hope , in a low voice . 
I wanted to know the worst at once , '' she answered . 
I was anxious about Ted and you . 
'' Well , it can't be helped now , '' he said . 
Come , we must hurry , here is our friend , the enemy . 
It reminds me of a football match , '' whispered young Langham , excitedly , when the teams run on the field . 
Look at Alvarez and Rojas watching Mendoza . 
'' Mendoza advanced at the front of his three troops of cavalry , looking neither to the left nor right , and by no sign acknowledging the fierce uproarious greeting of the people . 
Close behind him came his chosen band of cowboys and ruffians . 
Now all the chessmen are on the board , and the game can begin , '' said Clay . 
It's like the scene in the play , where each man has his sword at another man's throat and no one dares make the first move . 
Stuart's picked men , over whom he had spent many hot and weary hours , looked like a troop of Life Guardsmen in comparison . 
Clay noted their superiority , but he also saw that in numbers they were most woefully at a disadvantage . 
It was a brilliant scene for so modest a capital . 
Alvarez and Vice President Rojas , with Stuart , as an adjutant at their side , were sitting their horses within some fifty yards of the State carriage and the body guard . 
None of the three men spoke as they sat motionless and quite alone waiting for the next movement of the troops . 
It proved to be one of moment . 
Even before Mendoza had ridden toward them with his sword at salute , Clay gave an exclamation of enlightenment and concern . 
Mendoza galloped up to Alvarez with his sword still in salute . 
His eyes were burning with excitement and with the light of success . 
Alvarez , '' he said , as the head of the army I arrest you for high treason you have plotted to place yourself in office without popular election . 
You are also accused of large thefts of public funds . 
I must ask you to ride with me to the military prison . 
General Rojas , I regret that as an accomplice of the President's , you must come with us also . 
I will explain my action to the people when you are safe in prison , and I will proclaim martial law . 
If your troops attempt to interfere , my men have orders to fire on them and you . 
'' Stuart did not wait for his sentence . 
He had heard the heavy beat of the cavalry coming up on them at a trot . 
Stuart dashed off to the State carriage and seized the nearest of the horses by the bridle . 
To the Palace ! '' he shouted to his men . 
Shoot any one who tries to stop you . 
Forward , at a gallop , '' he commanded . 
The populace had not discovered what had occurred until it was finished . 
The coup d'etat had been long considered and the manner in which it was to be carried out carefully planned . 
The cavalry had swept across the parade ground and up the street before the people saw that they carried Rojas and Alvarez with them . 
The regiment commanded by Rojas found itself hemmed in before and behind by Mendoza's two regiments . 
They were greatly outnumbered , but they fired a scattering shot , and following their captured leader , broke through the line around them and pursued the cavalry toward the military prison . 
It was impossible to tell in the uproar which followed how many or how few had been parties to the plot . 
Madame Alvarez was trembling with excitement as she leaned on Langham's arm , but she showed no signs of fear in her face or in her manner . 
Mr. Clay has gone to bring your travelling carriage to the rear door , '' Langham said . 
Stuart tells us it is harnessed and ready . 
You will hurry , please , and get whatever you need to carry with you . 
We will see you safely to the coast . 
I got in by the back way , '' Hope explained . 
The streets there are all deserted . 
How can I help you ? '' she asked , eagerly . 
By leaving me , '' cried the older woman . 
That part of the city is still empty . 
'' Where are your servants why are they not here ? '' Hope demanded without heeding her . 
The palace was strangely empty no footsteps came running to greet them , no doors opened or shut as they hurried to Madame Alvarez's apartments . 
Hope crossed to the window and saw a great mob of soldiers and citizens sweep around the corner and throw themselves against the iron fence of the palace . 
You will have to hurry , '' she said . 
Remember , you are risking the lives of those boys by your delay . 
She held up a bundle of papers in her hand , wrapped in a leather portfolio . 
Do you see these ? '' she cried , they are drafts for five millions of dollars . 
'' She tossed them back into the safe and swung the door shut . 
I do not take them , '' she said . 
I don't understand , '' Hope answered , but hurry . 
Have you everything you want have you your jewels ? '' Yes , '' the woman answered , as she rose to her feet , they are mine . 
I will not go ! '' the Spanish woman cried , suddenly . 
I will not leave Alvarez to that mob . 
If they want to kill me , let them kill me . 
'' She threw the bag that held her jewels on the bed , and pushing open the window stepped out upon the balcony . 
Hope caught the woman by the skirt and dragged her back . 
You are mad , '' she said . 
What good can you do your husband here ? Save yourself and he will come to you when he can . 
There is nothing you can do for him now you cannot give your life for him . 
You are wasting it , and you are risking the lives of the men who are waiting for us below . 
Come , I tell you . 
'' MacWilliams left Clay waiting beside the diligence and ran from the stable through the empty house and down the marble stairs to the garden without meeting any one on his way . 
He saw Stuart helping and directing his men to barricade the gates with iron urns and garden benches and sentry boxes . 
Outside the mob were firing at him with their revolvers , and calling him foul names , but Stuart did not seem to hear them . 
He greeted MacWilliams with a cheerful little laugh . 
Well , '' he asked , is she ready ? '' No , but we are . 
Clay and I've been waiting there for five minutes . 
We found Miss Hope's groom and sent him back to the Palms with a message to King . 
We told him to run the yacht to Los Bocos and lie off shore until we came . 
He is to take her on down the coast to Truxillo , where our man of war is lying , and they will give her shelter as a political refugee . 
'' Clay says we could never get her through the city , '' MacWilliams answered . 
We should have to fight all the way . 
But the city to the south is deserted , and by going out by the back roads , we can make Bocos by ten o'clock to night . 
The yacht should reach there by seven . 
'' You are right go back . 
I will call off some of my men . 
The rest must hold this mob back until you start then I will follow with the others . 
Where is Miss Hope ? '' We don't know . 
Her groom says she is somewhere in the palace . 
'' Hurry , '' Stuart commanded . 
If Mendoza gets here before Madame Alvarez leaves , it will be too late . 
'' MacWilliams sprang up the steps of the palace , and Stuart , calling to the men nearest him to follow , started after him on a run . 
They met at the top of the main stairway just as Stuart put his foot on its lower step . 
The young Englishman heard the clatter of his men following close behind him and leaped eagerly forward . 
Stuart glanced over their heads and down the hallway to the garden beyond to see if they were followed , but the mob still fought from the outer side of the barricade . 
He waved his sword impatiently and started forward again . 
Come on ! '' he shouted . 
But the men below him did not move . 
Stuart halted once more and this time turned about and looked down upon them with surprise and anger . 
There was not one of them he could not have called by name . 
He knew all their little troubles , their love affairs , even . 
They came to him for comfort and advice , and to beg for money . 
He had regarded them as his children , and he was proud of them as soldiers because they were the work of his hands . 
So , instead of a sharp command , he asked , What is it ? '' in surprise , and stared at them wondering . 
He could not or would not comprehend , even though he saw that those in the front rank were pushing back and those behind were urging them forward . 
The muzzles of their carbines were directed at every point , and on their faces fear and hate and cowardice were written in varying likenesses . 
What does this mean ? '' Stuart demanded , sharply . 
What are you waiting for ? '' Clay had just reached the top of the stairs . 
He saw Madame Alvarez and Hope coming toward him , and at the sight of Hope he gave an exclamation of relief . 
Then his eyes turned and fell on the tableau below , on Stuart's back , as he stood confronting the men , and on their scowling upturned faces and half lifted carbines . 
Stuart ! '' he cried . 
Come away for God's sake , what are you doing ? Come back ! '' The Englishman started at the sound of his friend's voice , but he did not turn his head . 
Those in the rear raised and levelled their rifles . 
Without taking his eyes from theirs , Stuart drew his revolver , and with his sword swinging from its wrist strap , pointed his weapon at the mass below him . 
What does this mean ? '' he demanded . 
Is this mutiny ? '' A voice from the rear of the crowd of men shrieked Death to the Spanish woman . 
Long live Mendoza , '' and the others echoed the cry in chorus . 
Stuart started , and looked up to where Madame Alvarez had thrown herself toward him across the broad balustrade of the stairway . 
She was silent with fear , and her hand clutched at the air , as she beckoned wildly to him . 
Stuart stared at her with a troubled smile and waved his empty hand to reassure her . 
They came forth again wet and colored crimson . 
Stuart ! '' Clay gasped . 
Don't leave me ! '' he said . 
For God's sake , old man , don't leave me ! '' But the head on his shoulder only sank the closer and the body stiffened in his arms . 
Clay raised his eyes and saw the soldiers still standing , irresolute and appalled at what they had done , and awe struck at the sight of the grief before them . 
As he came they fled down the corridor , shrieking and calling to their friends to throw open the gates and begging them to admit the mob . 
When they reached the outer porch they turned , encouraged by the touch of numbers , and halted to fire at the man who still followed them . 
And at each report of his revolver one of Stuart's assassins stumbled and pitched heavily forward on his face . 
Then he turned and walked slowly back up the hall to the stairway like a man moving in his sleep . 
He neither saw nor heard the bullets that bit spitefully at the walls about him and rattled among the glass pendants of the great chandeliers above his head . 
When he came to the step on which the body lay he stooped and picked it up gently , and holding it across his breast , strode on up the stairs . 
MacWilliams and Langham were coming toward him , and saw the helpless figure in his arms . 
What is it ? '' they cried is he wounded , is he hurt ? '' He is dead , '' Clay answered , passing on with his burden . 
'' Madame Alvarez stood with the girl's arms about her , her eyes closed and her figure trembling . 
Let me be ! '' she moaned . 
Don't touch me let me die . 
I do not care what they do to me ! '' she cried . 
She tore her lace mantilla from her shoulders and threw it on the floor . 
I shall not leave this place . 
Why should I go ? He is dead . 
They have murdered him he is dead . 
'' She is fainting , '' said Hope . 
Her voice was strained and hard . 
To her brother she seemed to have grown suddenly much older , and he looked to her to tell him what to do . 
Take hold of her , '' she said . 
'' The woman sank back into the arms of the men , trembling and moaning feebly . 
Now carry her to the carriage , '' said Hope . 
She has fainted it is better she does not know what has happened . 
'' Clay , still bearing the body in his arms , pushed open the first door that stood ajar before him with his foot . 
It opened into the great banqueting hall of the palace , but he could not choose . 
He had to consider now the safety of the living , whose lives were still in jeopardy . 
It looked as though the servants had but just left the room . 
There was a great leather lounge stretching along one side of the hall , and Clay moved toward this quickly and laid his burden down . 
He was conscious that Hope was still following him . 
Hope confronted him in the doorway . 
It seemed as if their yells of exultation and anger must reach even the ears of the dead man . 
They are calling Mendoza , '' Clay whispered , he must be with them . 
Come , we will have to run for our lives now . 
Come , for God's sake , come ! '' Clay called to her in a whisper from the door . 
They seemed to be staring down less sternly now upon the white mortal face of the brother in arms who had just joined them . 
XIII The President's travelling carriage was a double seated diligence covered with heavy hoods and with places on the box for two men . 
Only one of the coachmen , the same man who had driven the State carriage from the review , had remained at the stables . 
Hope pulled open the leather curtains of the carriage and found Madame Alvarez where the men had laid her upon the cushions , weak and hysterical . 
The girl crept in beside her , and lifting her in her arms , rested the older woman's head against her shoulder , and soothed and comforted her with tenderness and sympathy . 
Clay stopped with his foot in the stirrup and looked up anxiously at Langham who was already in the saddle . 
Is there no possible way of getting Hope out of this and back to the Palms ? '' he asked . 
No , it's too late . 
This is the only way now . 
'' Hope opened the leather curtains and looking out shook her head impatiently at Clay . 
I wouldn't go now if there were another way , '' she said . 
I couldn't leave her like this . 
'' You're delaying the game , Clay , '' cried Langham , warningly , as he stuck his spurs into his pony's side . 
They found the gates of the botanical gardens already opened , and Clay , in the street outside , beckoning them on . 
Two men who were so bold as to start to follow , stopped abruptly when they saw the outriders draw rein and turn in their saddles as though to await their coming . 
Clay's mind was torn with doubts , and his nerves were drawn taut like the strings of a violin . 
Personal danger exhilarated him , but this chance of harm to others who were helpless , except for him , depressed his spirit with anxiety . 
Clay turned his pony into a trot at Langham's side . 
His face was pale and drawn . 
As the danger of immediate pursuit and capture grew less , the carriage had slackened its pace , and for some minutes the outriders galloped on together side by side in silence . 
But the same thought was in the mind of each , and when Langham spoke it was as though he were continuing where he had but just been interrupted . 
He laid his hand gently on Clay's arm . 
He did not turn his face toward him , and his eyes were still peering into the shadows before them . 
Tell me ? '' he asked . 
He was coming up the stairs , '' Clay answered . 
He spoke in so low a voice that Langham had to lean from his saddle to hear him . 
They were close behind but when they saw her they stopped and refused to go farther . 
I called to him to come away , but he would not understand . 
They killed him before he really understood what they meant to do . 
He was dead almost before I reached him . 
He died in my arms . 
'' There was a long pause . 
I wonder if he knows that ? '' Clay said . 
Langham sat erect in the saddle again and drew a short breath . 
I wish he could have known how he helped me , '' he whispered , how much just knowing him helped me . 
'' Clay bowed his head to the boy as though he were thanking him . 
His was the gentlest soul I ever knew , '' he said . 
That's what I wanted to say , '' Langham answered . 
We will let that be his epitaph , '' and touching his spur to his horse he galloped on ahead and left Clay riding alone . 
There are soldiers ahead of us , '' he cried . 
Did you know it ? '' he demanded of the driver . 
Did you lie to me ? Turn back . 
'' He can't turn back , '' MacWilliams answered . 
They are only the custom officers at the city limits . 
'' He reached forward and catching the reins dragged the horses down into a walk . 
Then he handed the reins back to the driver with a shake of the head . 
If you know these roads as well as you say you do , you want to keep us out of the way of soldiers , '' he said . 
If we fall into a trap you'll be the first man shot on either side . 
'' A sentry strolled lazily out into the road dragging his gun after him by the bayonet , and raised his hand for them to halt . 
His captain followed him from the post house throwing away a cigarette as he came , and saluted MacWilliams on the box and bowed to the two riders in the background . 
Whose carriage is this , and where is it going ? '' he asked . 
As the speed of the diligence slackened , Hope put her head out of the curtains , and as she surveyed the soldier with apparent surprise , she turned to her brother . 
What does this mean ? '' she asked . 
What are we waiting for ? '' We are going to the Hacienda of Senor Palacio , '' MacWilliams said , in answer to the officer . 
The driver thinks that this is the road , but I say we should have taken the one to the right . 
'' No , this is the road to Senor Palacio's plantation , '' the officer answered , but you cannot leave the city without a pass signed by General Mendoza . 
That is the order we received this morning . 
Have you such a pass ? '' Certainly not , '' Clay answered , warmly . 
This is the carriage of an American , the president of the mines . 
His daughters are inside and on their way to visit the residence of Senor Palacio . 
We are all foreigners , and we have a perfect right to leave the city when we choose . 
You can only stop us when we enter it . 
'' The officer looked uncertainly from Clay to Hope and up at the driver on the box . 
His eyes fell upon the heavy brass mountings of the harness . 
They bore the arms of Olancho . 
He wheeled sharply and called to his men inside the post house , and they stepped out from the veranda and spread themselves leisurely across the road . 
Ride him down , Clay , '' Langham muttered , in a whisper . 
Pardon , '' he said , there is no need for blows when one is rich enough to pay . 
A little something for myself and a drink for my brave fellows , and you can go where you please . 
'' Damned brigands , '' growled Langham , savagely . 
Not at all , '' Clay answered . 
He is an officer and a gentleman . 
I have no money with me , '' he said , in Spanish , addressing the officer , but between caballeros a word of honor is sufficient . 
'' There was a murmur inside the carriage , and Hope's face disappeared from between the curtains to reappear again almost immediately . 
She beckoned to the officer with her hand , and the men saw that she held between her thumb and little finger a diamond ring of size and brilliancy . 
She moved it so that it flashed in the light of the guard lantern above the post house . 
My sister tells me you shall be given this tomorrow morning , '' Hope said , if we are not followed . 
'' The man's eyes laughed with pleasure . 
He swept his sombrero to the ground . 
I am your servant , Senorita , '' he said . 
Gentlemen , '' he cried , gayly , turning to Clay , if you wish it , I will accompany you with my men . 
Yes , I will leave word that I have gone in the sudden pursuit of smugglers or I will remain here as you wish , and send those who may follow back again . 
'' You are most gracious , sir , '' said Clay . 
It is always a pleasure to meet with a gentleman and a philosopher . 
We prefer to travel without an escort , and remember , you have seen nothing and heard nothing . 
'' He leaned from the saddle , and touched the officer on the breast . 
That ring is worth a king's ransom . 
'' Or a president's , '' muttered the man , smiling . 
Let the American ladies pass , '' he commanded . 
The road through the forest was narrow and uneven , and as the horses fell into a trot the men on horseback closed up together behind the carriage . 
Do you think that road agent will keep his word ? '' Langham asked . 
Yes he has nothing to win by telling the truth , '' Clay answered . 
He can say he saw a party of foreigners , Americans , driving in the direction of Palacio's coffee plantation . 
That lets him out , and in the morning he knows he can levy on us for the gate money . 
I am not so much afraid of being overtaken as I am that King may make a mistake and not get to Bocos on time . 
We ought to reach there , if the carriage holds together , by eleven . 
King should be there by eight o'clock , and the yacht ought to make the run to Truxillo in three hours . 
But we shall not be able to get back to the city before five to morrow morning . 
I suppose your family will be wild about Hope . 
We didn't know where she was when we sent the groom back to King . 
'' Do you think that driver is taking us the right way ? '' Langham asked , after a pause . 
He knows it well enough . 
He was through the last revolution , and carried messages from Los Bocos to the city on foot for two months . 
He has covered every trail on the way , and if he goes wrong he knows what will happen to him . 
If there should be a guard there , King will have fixed them one way or another by the time we arrive . 
Anyhow , there is no need of looking for trouble that far ahead . 
There is enough to worry about in between . 
We haven't got there yet . 
'' The moon rose grandly a few minutes later , and flooded the forest with light so that the open places were as clear as day . 
It threw strange shadows across the trail , and turned the rocks and fallen trees into figures of men crouching or standing upright with uplifted arms . 
It was a silent pilgrim age , and never for a moment did the strain slacken or the men draw rein . 
They had settled down into a steady gallop now , and ten or fifteen miles had been left behind them . 
We are making excellent time , '' said Clay . 
The village of San Lorenzo should lie beyond that ridge . 
'' He drove up beside the driver and pointed with his whip . 
Is not that San Lorenzo ? '' he asked . 
Yes , senor , '' the man answered , but I mean to drive around it by the old wagon trail . 
It is a large town , and people may be awake . 
You will be able to see it from the top of the next hill . 
'' The cavalcade stopped at the summit of the ridge and the men looked down into the silent village . 
That is the comandancia , '' said the driver , shaking his head . 
It is a telegraph station . 
'' Great Scott ! '' exclaimed MacWilliams . 
They may have sent word to head us off already . 
'' Nine o'clock is not so very late , '' said Clay . 
'' We had better make sure , though , '' MacWilliams answered , jumping to the ground . 
Lend me your pony , Ted , and take my place . 
I'll run in there and dust around and see what's up . 
I'll join you on the other side of the town after you get back to the main road . 
'' Wait a minute , '' said Clay . 
What do you mean to do ? '' I can't tell till I get there , but I'll try to find out how much they know . 
I'll run fast enough if there's any sign of trouble . 
And if you come across a telegraph wire , cut it . 
The message may not have gone over yet . 
He asked if they were comfortable , and assured them that the greater part of the ride was over , and that there was a good road from San Lorenzo to the sea . 
MacWilliams rode down into the village along the main trail , and threw his reins over a post in front of the comandancia . 
He mounted boldly to the second floor of the building and stopped at the head of the stairs , in front of an open door . 
As he stamped into the room , they looked up and stared at him in surprise their faces showed that he had interrupted them at a moment of unusual interest . 
MacWilliams saluted the three men civilly , and , according to the native custom , apologized for appearing before them in his spurs . 
He had been riding from Los Bocos to the capital , he said , and his horse had gone lame . 
You can hire a mule from one Pulido Paul , at the corner of the plaza , '' he said . 
And as MacWilliams still stood uncertainly , he added , You say you have come from Los Bocos . 
She must be stopped take an armed force and guard the roads . 
If necessary , kill her . 
She has in the carriage or hidden on her person , drafts for five million sols . 
You will be held responsible for every one of them . 
Repeat this message to show you understand , and relay it to Los Bocos . 
If you fail '' MacWilliams could not wait to hear more he gave a curt nod to the men and started toward the stairs . 
Wait , '' the comandante called after him . 
MacWilliams paused with one hand on top of the banisters balancing himself in readiness for instant flight . 
You have not answered me . 
I rode behind him for some distance . 
He turned finally to the right into the trail to San Pedro Sula . 
'' The man flung himself across the railing . 
At a point where he thought he could dismount in safety and tear down the wire , he came across it dangling from the branches and he gave a shout of relief . 
Taking this in his hand he mounted again and rode off with it , dragging the wire in the road behind him . 
He held it up as he rejoined Clay , and laughed triumphantly . 
They'll have some trouble splicing that circuit , '' he said , you only half did the work . 
But whether you cut this down before or after is what I should like to know . 
'' We shall probably learn that later , '' said Clay , grimly . 
The last three miles of the journey lay over a hard , smooth road , wide enough to allow the carriage and its escort to ride abreast . 
Hope felt selfishly and wickedly happy . 
The excitement had kept her spirits at the highest point , and the knowledge that Clay was guarding and protecting her was in itself a pleasure . 
Madame Alvarez sat at her side , rigid , silent , and beyond the help of comfort . 
Only once after the men had parted the curtains and asked concerning her comfort with grave solicitude did she give way to tears . 
Why are they so good to me ? '' she moaned . 
Why are you so good to me ? I am a wicked , vain woman , I have brought a nation to war and I have killed the only man I ever trusted . 
'' Hope touched her gently with her hand and felt guiltily how selfish she herself must be not to feel the woman's grief , but she could not . 
Her thoughts were interrupted by the carriage coming to a halt , and a significant movement upon the part of the men . 
MacWilliams had descended from the box seat and stepping into the carriage took the place the women had just left . 
He had a carbine in his hand , and after he was seated Langham handed him another which he laid across his knees . 
They thought I was too conspicuous on the box to do any good there , '' he explained in a confidential whisper . 
In case there is any firing now , you ladies want to get down on your knees here at my feet , and hide your heads in the cushions . 
We are entering Los Bocos . 
'' Langham and Clay were riding far in advance , scouting to the right and left , and the carriage moved noiselessly behind them through the empty streets . 
There was no light in any of the windows , and not even a dog barked , or a cock crowed . 
His eyes twinkled , like those of a little fox terrier . 
The men dropped back , and drew up on a level with the carriage . 
We are all right , so far , '' Clay whispered . 
The beach slopes down from the other side of that line of trees . 
Among the rocks on the edge of the beach was the Vesta's'' longboat and her crew seated in it or standing about on the beach . 
The carriage had stopped under the protecting shadow of the trees , and he raced back toward it . 
The yacht is here , '' he cried . 
The long boat is waiting and there is not a sign of light about the Custom house . 
Come on , '' he cried . 
We have beaten them after all . 
Madame Alvarez stepped down from the carriage , and as Hope handed her her jewel case in silence , the men draped her cloak about her shoulders . 
She put out her hand to them , and as Clay took it in his , she bent her head quickly and kissed his hand . 
You were his friend , '' she murmured . 
She held Hope in her arms for an instant , and kissed her , and then gave her hand in turn to Langham and to MacWilliams . 
'' As she finished speaking King came up to the group , followed by three of his men . 
Is Hope with you , is she safe ? '' he asked . 
Yes , she is with me , '' Madame Alvarez answered . 
Thank God , '' King exclaimed , breathlessly . 
Then we will start at once , Madame . 
Where is she ? She must come with us ! '' Of course , '' Clay assented , eagerly , she will be much safer on the yacht . 
I must get back to father , '' she said . 
The yacht will not arrive until late to morrow , and the carriage can take me to him five hours earlier . 
The family have worried too long about me as it is , and , besides , I will not leave Ted . 
I am going back as I came . 
'' It is most unsafe , '' King urged . 
On the contrary , it is perfectly safe now , '' Hope answered . 
It was not one of us they wanted . 
'' You may be right , '' King said . 
They don't know what has happened to you , and perhaps after all it would be better if you went back the quicker way . 
'' He gave his arm to Madame Alvarez and walked with her toward the shore . 
As the men surrounded her on every side and moved away , Clay glanced back at Hope and saw her standing upright in the carriage looking after them . 
We will be with you in a minute , '' he called , as though in apology for leaving her for even that brief space . 
And then the shadow of the trees shut her and the carriage from his sight . 
King had arranged to fire a rocket when the launch left the shore , in order that the captain of the yacht might run in closer to pick them up . 
As he hurried down the beach , he called to his boatswain to give the signal , and the man answered that he understood and stooped to light a match . 
The boatswain in the bow of the long boat tossed up his arms and pitched forward between the thwarts . 
Give way , '' he shouted as he fell . 
Pull , '' Clay yelled , pull , all of you . 
The shots continued fiercely , and two of the crew cried out and fell back upon the oars of the men behind them . 
Madame Alvarez sprang to her feet and stood swaying unsteadily as the boat leaped forward . 
Stop , I command you , '' she cried , I will not leave those men . 
Do you hear ? '' King caught her by the waist and dragged her down , but she struggled to free herself . 
I will not leave them to be murdered , '' she cried . 
You cowards , put me back . 
'' Hold her , King , '' Clay shouted . 
They're not firing at us . 
'' His voice was drowned in the noise of the oars beating in the rowlocks , and the reports of the rifles . 
The boat disappeared in a mist of spray and moonlight , and Clay turned and faced about him . 
Langham and MacWilliams were crouching behind a rock and firing at the flashes in the woods . 
You can't stay there , '' Clay cried . 
We must get back to Hope . 
'' He ran forward , dodging from side to side and firing as he ran . 
He heard shots from the water , and looking back saw that the men in the longboat had ceased rowing , and were returning the fire from the shore . 
Come back , Hope is all right , '' her brother called to him . 
I haven't seen a shot within a hundred yards of her yet , they're firing from the Custom house and below . 
'' I'm not , '' MacWilliams's voice answered from behind a rock , but I'd like to see something to shoot at . 
'' A hot tremor of rage swept over Clay at the thought of a possibly fatal termination to the night's adventure . 
He cursed himself impotently and rebelliously for a senseless fool . 
Keep back , can't you ? '' he heard Langham calling to him from the shore . 
You're only drawing the fire toward Hope . 
She's got away by now . 
She had both the horses . 
At their backs the open sea cut off retreat , and the line of fire in front held them in check . 
They were as helpless as chessmen upon a board . 
I'm not going to stand still to be shot at , '' cried MacWilliams . 
Let's hide or let's run . 
This isn't doing anybody any good . 
'' But no one moved . 
They're shooting better , '' said MacWilliams . 
They'll reach us in a minute . 
'' They've reached me already , I think , '' Langham answered , with suppressed satisfaction , in the shoulder . 
But it was of the most importance to MacWilliams . 
He raised his voice against the men in the woods in impotent fury . 
Come out , you cowards , where we can see you , '' he cried . 
Come out where I can shoot your black heads off . 
'' Clay had fired the last cartridge in his rifle , and throwing it away drew his revolver . 
We must either swim or hide , '' he said . 
Put your heads down and run . 
'' But as he spoke , they saw the carriage plunging out of the shadow of the woods and the horses galloping toward them down the beach . 
MacWilliams gave a cheer of welcome . 
Hurrah ! '' he shouted , it's Jose' coming for us . 
Well done , Jose' ! '' he called . 
That's not Jose' , '' Langham cried , doubtfully , peering through the moonlight . 
Good God ! It's Hope , '' he exclaimed . 
He waved his hands frantically above his head . 
Go back , Hope , '' he cried , go back ! '' But the carriage did not swerve on its way toward them . 
They all saw her now distinctly . 
As she came down upon them , she stood up , her woman's figure outlined clearly in the riding habit she still wore . 
Jump in when I turn , '' she cried . 
I'm going to turn slowly , run and jump in . 
Clay caught the hood at the back , swung himself up , and scrambled over the cushions and up to the box seat . 
The road into which they had turned was narrow , but level , and ran through a forest of banana palms that bent and swayed above them . 
Langham and MacWilliams still knelt in the rear seat of the carriage , watching the road on the chance of possible pursuit . 
Give me some cartridges , '' said Langham . 
What road is this ? '' It is a private road , I should say , through somebody's banana plantation . 
But it must cross the main road somewhere . 
It doesn't matter , we're all right now . 
I mean to take it easy . 
'' MacWilliams turned on his back and stretched out his legs on the seat opposite . 
They were probably watching King and his sailors for the last hour or so , but they didn't want him . 
They wanted her and the money . 
It was pretty exciting , wasn't it ? How's your shoulder ? '' It's a little stiff , thank you , '' said Langham . 
He stood up and by peering over the hood could just see the top of Clay's sombrero rising above it where he sat on the back seat . 
You and Hope all right up there , Clay ? '' he asked . 
The top of the sombrero moved slightly , and Langham took it as a sign that all was well . 
He dropped back into his seat beside MacWilliams , and they both breathed a long sigh of relief and content . 
Langham's wounded arm was the one nearest MacWilliams , and the latter parted the torn sleeve and examined the furrow across the shoulder with unconcealed envy . 
I am afraid it won't leave a scar , '' he said , sympathetically . 
Won't it ? '' asked Langham , in some concern . 
Clay had not moved since the horses turned of their own accord into the valley of the palms . 
He no longer feared pursuit nor any interruption to their further progress . 
Neither of them spoke , and as the silence continued unbroken , it took a weightier significance , and at each added second of time became more full of meaning . 
Hope sank slowly back , and as she did so , her shoulder touched for an instant against Clay's knee she straightened herself and made a movement as though to rise . 
Her nearness to him and something in her attitude at his feet held Clay in a spell . 
He bent forward and laid his hand fearfully upon her shoulder , and the touch seemed to stop the blood in his veins and hushed the words upon his lips . 
Hope raised her head slowly as though with a great effort , and looked into his eyes . 
He bent his head lower , and stretching out his arms drew her to him , and the eyes did not waver . 
He raised her and held her close against his breast . 
Her eyes faltered and closed . 
Hope , '' he whispered , Hope . 
'' He stooped lower and kissed her , and his lips told her what they could not speak and they were quite alone . 
XIV An hour later Langham rose with a protesting sigh and shook the hood violently . 
I say ! '' he called . 
Are you asleep up there . 
We'll never get home at this rate . 
Doesn't Hope want to come back here and go to sleep ? The carriage stopped , and the boys tumbled out and walked around in front of it . 
Hope sat smiling on the box seat . 
She was apparently far from sleepy , and she was quite contented where she was , she told him . 
Do you know we haven't had anything to eat since yesterday at breakfast ? '' asked Langham . 
MacWilliams and I are fainting . 
We move that we stop at the next shack we come to , and waken the people up and make them give us some supper . 
'' Hope looked aside at Clay and laughed softly . 
Supper ? '' she said . 
They want supper ! '' Their suffering did not seem to impress Clay deeply . 
He sat snapping his whip at the palm trees above him , and smiled happily in an inconsequent and irritating manner at nothing . 
After that I woke up to the really important things of life among which supper is not one . 
'' Langham and MacWilliams looked at each other doubtfully , and Langham shook his head . 
Get down off that box , '' he commanded . 
If you and Hope think this is merely a pleasant moonlight drive , we don't . 
You two can sit in the carriage now , and we'll take a turn at driving , and we'll guarantee to get you to some place soon . 
'' Clay and Hope descended meekly and seated themselves under the hood , where they could look out upon the moonlit road as it unrolled behind them . 
But they were no longer to enjoy their former leisurely progress . 
The new whip lashed his horses into a gallop , and the trees flew past them on either hand . 
Do you remember that chap in the Last Ride Together' ? '' said Clay . 
I and my mistress , side by side , Shall be together forever ride , And so one more day am I deified . 
Who knows the world may end to night . 
'' Hope laughed triumphantly , and threw out her arms as though she would embrace the whole beautiful world that stretched around them . 
Oh , no , '' she laughed . 
To night the world has just begun . 
The door opened for an inch , and there was a long debate in Spanish , and finally the door was closed again , and a light appeared through the windows . 
A few minutes later a man and woman came out of the hut , shivering and yawning , and made a fire in the sun baked oven at the side of the house . 
Hope felt an overflowing sense of gratitude to these simple strangers for the trouble they were taking . 
She felt how good every one was , and how wonderfully kind and generous was the world that she lived in . 
Her brother came over to the carriage and bowed with mock courtesy . 
Her glance fell upon Langham's shoulder , and rested there for so long that Hope followed the direction of her eyes . 
She leaped to her feet with a cry of fear and reproach , and ran toward her brother . 
Leave me alone ! '' cried the stern brother , backing away and warding them off with the coffeepot . 
I am so selfish , '' she sobbed . 
I have been so happy and you were suffering all the time . 
'' Her brother stared at the others in dismay . 
What nonsense , '' he said , patting her on the shoulder . 
You're a bit tired , and you need rest . 
The idea of my sister going off in hysterics after behaving like such a sport and before these young ladies , too . 
Aren't you ashamed ? '' I should think they'd be ashamed , '' said MacWilliams , severely , as he continued placidly with his supper . 
They haven't got enough clothes on . 
'' Langham looked over Hope's shoulder at Clay and nodded significantly . 
She's been on a good deal of a strain , '' he explained apologetically , and no wonder it's been rather an unusual night for her . 
'' Hope raised her head and smiled at him through her tears . 
Then she turned and moved toward Clay . 
She brushed her eyes with the back of her hand and laughed . 
It has been an unusual night , '' she said . 
Shall I tell him ? '' she asked . 
Clay straightened himself unconsciously , and stepped beside her and took her hand MacWilliams quickly lowered to the bench the dish from which he was eating , and stood up , too . 
The people of the house stared at the group in the firelight with puzzled interest , at the beautiful young girl , and at the tall , sunburned young man at her side . 
Langham looked from his sister to Clay and back again , and laughed uneasily . 
Langham , I have been very bold , '' said Clay . 
I have asked your sister to marry me and she has said that she would . 
'' Langham flushed as red as his sister . 
He felt himself at a disadvantage in the presence of a love as great and strong as he knew this must be . 
It made him seem strangely young and inadequate . 
They stood so for some little time , smiling and exclaiming together , and utterly unconscious of anything but their own delight and happiness . 
MacWilliams watched them , his face puckered into odd wrinkles and his eyes half closed . 
Hope suddenly broke away from the others and turned toward him with her hands held out . 
Have you nothing to say to me , Mr. MacWilliams ? '' she asked . 
His usual confidence seemed to have forsaken him , and he stood , shifting from one foot to the other , smiling and abashed . 
Well , I always said they didn't make them any better than you , '' he gasped at last . 
I was always telling him that , wasn't I ? '' He nodded energetically at Clay . 
And that's so they don't make 'em any better than you . 
'' He dropped her hands and crossed over to Clay , and stood surveying him with a smile of wonder and admiration . 
How'd you do it ? '' he demanded . 
MacWilliams walked toward the door and stood in it for a second , looking back at them over his shoulder . 
They don't make them any better than that , '' he reiterated gravely , and disappeared in the direction of the horses , shaking his head and muttering his astonishment and delight . 
Please give me some money , '' Hope said to Clay . 
All the money you have , '' she added , smiling at her presumption of authority over him , and you , too , Ted . 
'' The men emptied their pockets , and Hope poured the mass of silver into the hands of the women , who gazed at it uncomprehendingly . 
Thank you for your trouble and your good supper , '' Hope said in Spanish , and may no evil come to your house . 
The world is full of such kind and gentle souls , '' she said . 
From three places in different parts of the city , thick columns of smoke rose lazily to the sky . 
I had forgotten ! '' said Clay they have been having a revolution here . 
It seems so long ago . 
'' By five o'clock they had reached the gate of the Palms , and their appearance startled the sentry on post into a state of undisciplined joy . 
Mr. Langham and his daughter were standing on the veranda as the horses came galloping up the avenue . 
They had been awake all the night , and the face of each was white and drawn with anxiety and loss of sleep . 
Mr. Langham caught Hope in his arms and held her face close to his in silence . 
Where have you been ? '' he said at last . 
Why did you treat me like this ? You knew how I would suffer . 
'' I could not help it , '' Hope cried . 
I had to go with Madame Alvarez . 
'' Her sister had suffered as acutely as had Mr. Langham himself , as long as she was in ignorance of Hope's whereabouts . 
But now that she saw Hope in the flesh again , she felt a reaction against her for the anxiety and distress she had caused them . 
You were only another responsibility for the men . 
'' Clay seemed willing to accept the responsibility , '' said Langham , without a smile . 
And , besides , '' he added , if Hope had not been with us we might never have reached home alive . 
Miss Langham and himself , he said , had passed a trying night . 
There had been much firing in the city , and continual uproar . 
The houses of several of the friends of Alvarez had been burned and sacked . 
Alvarez himself had been shot as soon as he had entered the yard of the military prison . 
It was then given out that he had committed suicide . 
The British Minister had sent to the Palace for the body of Captain Stuart , and had had it escorted to the Legation , from whence it would be sent to England . 
This , as far as Mr. Langham had heard , was the news of the night just over . 
Two native officers called here for you about midnight , Clay , '' he continued , and they are still waiting for you below at your office . 
They came from Rojas's troops , who are encamped on the hills at the other side of the city . 
They wanted you to join them with the men from the mines . 
I told them I did not know when you would return , and they said they would wait . 
I should have liked , though , to have struck one blow at them . 
But we cannot hope to win against assassins . 
I have decided to go away at once , on the next steamer , and I will take my daughters with me , and Ted , too . 
The State Department at Washington can fight with Mendoza for the mines . 
You made a good stand , but they made a better one , and they have beaten us . 
Mendoza's coup d'etat has passed into history , and the revolution is at an end . 
He knocked the ashes from it and considered the burning end thoughtfully . 
Then he glanced at Hope as she stood among the group on the veranda . 
She was waiting for his reply and watching him intently . 
He seemed to be confident that she would approve of the only course he saw open to him . 
The revolution is not at an end by any means , Mr. Langham , '' he said at last , simply . 
'' He turned abruptly and walked away in the direction of the office , and MacWilliams and Langham stepped off the veranda and followed him as a matter of course . 
So they halted uncertainly in the road , and their young officers held counsel together . 
It was impossible to return to the city where Mendoza's First and Second regiments greatly outnumbered them . 
Having no leader and no headquarters , the officers marched the men to the hills above the city and went into camp to await further developments . 
Bring your men at once to this end of our railroad , '' he said . 
It is still early , and the revolutionists will sleep late . 
I will telegraph Kirkland to come up at once with all of his soldiers and with his three hundred Irishmen . 
You ride back now and march your men here at a double quick . 
With your two thousand we shall have in all three thousand and eight hundred men . 
I must have absolute control over my own troops . 
Otherwise I shall act independently of you and go into the city alone with my workmen . 
'' That is unnecessary , '' said one of the lieutenants . 
If you do not command us , there is no one else to do it . 
We promise that our men will follow you and give you every obedience . 
They have been led by foreigners before , by young Captain Stuart and Major Fergurson and Colonel Shrevington . 
They know how highly General Rojas thinks of you , and they know that you have led Continental armies in Europe . 
'' Well , don't tell them I haven't until this is over , '' said Clay . 
Now , ride hard , gentlemen , and bring your men here as quickly as possible . 
'' The lieutenants thanked him effusively and galloped away , radiant at the success of their mission , and Clay entered the office where MacWilliams was telegraphing his orders to Kirkland . 
He seated himself beside the instrument , and from time to time answered the questions Kirkland sent back to him over the wire , and in the intervals of silence thought of Hope . 
He took a piece of paper from the table and wrote a few lines upon it , and then rewrote them several times . 
I cannot come back to see you before we start , but I know your heart is with me . 
With great love , Robert Clay . 
'' He gave the note to his servant , and the answer was brought to him almost immediately . 
I know that you will come back to me bringing your sheaves with you . 
Nothing can happen to you now . 
He thought how unlike it was to Alice Langham as he knew her . 
He remembered what she had said to him the first night he had seen her . 
That is the picture of the girl who ceased to exist four years ago , and whom you have never met . 
'' He wondered if she had ever existed . 
It looks more like Hope than her sister , '' he mused . 
It looks very much like Hope . 
Kirkland was in the cab of the locomotive that brought the soldiers from the mine . 
He stopped the first car in front of the freight station until the workmen had filed out and formed into a double line on the platform . 
Then he moved the train forward the length of that car , and those in the one following were mustered out in a similar manner . 
There was no confusion , no crowding , and no haste . 
It looked more like a mob than a regiment . 
None of the men were in uniform , and the native soldiers were barefoot . 
But they showed a winning spirit , and stood in as orderly an array as though they were drawn up in line to receive their month's wages . 
The Americans in front of the column were humorously disposed , and inclined to consider the whole affair as a pleasant outing . 
Clay selected twenty of the best shots from among the engineers and sent them on ahead as a skirmish line . 
They were ordered to fall back at once if they saw any sign of the enemy . 
In this order the column of four thousand men started for the city . 
It was a little after seven when they advanced . 
and the air was mild and peaceful . 
In order to enlighten them , Clay shouted , Viva Rojas . 
'' And his men took it up , and the people answered gladly . 
Three streets ran parallel with one another from this plaza to the heart of the city , and opened directly upon the garden of the Palace where Mendoza had fortified himself . 
Clay directed the columns to advance up these streets , keeping the head of each column in touch with the other two . 
At the word they were to pour down the side streets and rally to each other's assistance . 
As they stood , drawn up on the three sides of the plaza , he rode out before them and held up his hat for silence . 
According to their own laws , the Vice President must succeed when the President's term of office had expired , or in the event of his death . 
President Alvarez had been assassinated , and the Vice President , General Rojas , was , in consequence , his legal successor . 
The second motive , he went on , was a less worthy and more selfish one . 
If he remained in power all foreigners would be driven out of the country , and the soldiers would be forced to work in the mines without payment . 
Their condition would be little better than that of the slaves in the salt mines of Siberia . 
Under President Rojas you will have liberty , justice , and prosperity , '' Clay cried . 
Under Mendoza you will be ruled by martial law . 
He will rob and overtax you , and you will live through a reign of terror . 
'' The Americans stood as they were and gave three cheers for the Government . 
No one opposed them , and no one encouraged them . 
But they could now see the facade of the Palace and the flag of the Revolutionists hanging from the mast in front of it . 
As our Minister was not here , '' Weimer said , I telegraphed to Truxillo for the man of war there . 
She started some time ago , and we have just heard that she is entering the lower harbor . 
She should have her blue jackets on shore in twenty minutes . 
Sir Julian and I think you ought to wait for them . 
'' The English Minister put a detaining hand on Clay's bridle . 
If you attack Mendoza at the Palace with this mob , '' he remonstrated , rioting and lawlessness generally will break out all over the city . 
I ask you to keep them back until we get your sailors to police the streets and protect property . 
'' Clay glanced over his shoulder at the engineers and the Irish workmen standing in solemn array behind him . 
Oh , you can hardly call this a mob , '' he said . 
They look a little rough and ready , but I will answer for them . 
The two other columns that are coming up the streets parallel to this are Government troops and properly engaged in driving a usurper out of the Government building . 
The best thing you can do is to get down to the wharf and send the marines and blue jackets where you think they will do the most good . 
I can't wait for them . 
And they can't come too soon . 
When they heard the firing of his men from the front they were to force their way through the gates at the back and attack the Palace in the rear . 
Mendoza has the place completely barricaded , '' Weimer warned him , and he has three field pieces covering each of these streets . 
You and your men are directly in line of one of them now . 
He is only waiting for you to get a little nearer before he lets loose . 
'' From where he sat Clay could count the bars of the iron fence in front of the grounds . 
But the boards that backed them prevented his forming any idea of the strength or the distribution of Mendoza's forces . 
He drew his staff of amateur officers to one side and explained the situation to them . 
The Theatre National and the Club Union , '' he said , face the Palace from the opposite corners of this street . 
Clear them away from the cannon first , and keep them away from it . 
I will be waiting in the street below . 
When you have driven them back , we will charge the gates and have it out with them in the gardens . 
The Third and Fourth regiments ought to take them in the rear about the same time . 
You will continue to pick them off from the roof . 
'' The two supporting columns had already started on their roundabout way to the rear of the Palace . 
But the men in the lead had already reached the stage door of the theatre and were opposite one of the doors to the club . 
They drove these in with the butts of their rifles , and raced up the stairs of each of the deserted buildings until they reached the roof . 
Langham was swept by a weight of men across a stage , and jumped among the music racks in the orchestra . 
He caught a glimpse of the early morning sun shining on the tawdry hangings of the boxes and the exaggerated perspective of the scenery . 
Men poured through the windows of the club opposite , dragging sofas and chairs out to the balcony and upon the flat roof . 
The men near him were tearing down the yellow silk curtains in the lobby and draping them along the railing of the balcony to better conceal their movements from the enemy below . 
Bullets spattered the stucco about their heads , and panes of glass broke suddenly and fell in glittering particles upon their shoulders . 
The firing had already begun from the roofs near them . 
Others were gathered in black masses on the balconies and roofs of the more distant houses , where they stood outlined against the soft blue sky in gigantic silhouette . 
Their shouts of encouragement and anger carried clearly in the morning air , and spurred on the gladiators below to greater effort . 
Two of the assistant engineers were kneeling at Langham's feet with the barrels of their rifles resting on the railing of the balcony . 
One of them lowered his gun to light a cigarette , and Langham handed him his match box , with a certain feeling of repugnance . 
Better get under cover , Mr. Langham , '' the man said , kindly . 
There's no use our keeping your mines for you if you're not alive to enjoy them . 
Take a shot at that crew around the gun . 
'' I don't like this long range business , '' Langham answered . 
I am going down to join Clay . 
I don't like the idea of hitting a man when he isn't looking at you . 
'' The engineer gave an incredulous laugh . 
If he isn't looking at you , he's aiming at the man next to you . 
Live and let Live' doesn't apply at present . 
Kirkland had come prepared for the barricade , and , running across the street , fastened a dynamite cartridge to each gate post and lit the fuses . 
It was fighting at close range now , close enough to suit even Langham . 
He found himself in the front rank of it without knowing exactly how he got there . 
Every man on both sides was playing his own hand , and seemed to know exactly what to do . 
He felt neglected and very much alone , and was somewhat anxious lest his valor might be wasted through his not knowing how to put it to account . 
The soldiers who were fighting on his own side were equally unknown to him , and he looked in vain for Clay . 
He saw MacWilliams for a moment through the smoke , jabbing at a jammed cartridge with his pen knife , and hacking the lead away to make it slip . 
Kneeling beside the wounded man who had dropped it and picking the cartridges from his belt , he assured him cheerfully that he was not so badly hurt as he thought . 
You all right ? '' Langham asked . 
I'm trying to get a little laddie hiding behind that blue silk sofa over there . 
He's taken an unnatural dislike to me , and he's nearly got me three times . 
I'm knocking horse hair out of his rampart , though . 
'' The men of Stuart's body guard were fighting outside of the breastworks and mattresses . 
His shoulders pushed against a mass of shouting , sweating men , who in turn pressed back upon others , until the mass reached the iron fence and could move no farther . 
He saw a tall man with a negro's face spring out of the first mass of soldiers and shout to them to follow him . 
Clay gave a yell of welcome and ran at him , calling upon him in Spanish to surrender . 
The negro stopped and stood at bay , glaring at Clay and at the circle of soldiers closing in around him . 
He raised his revolver and pointed it steadily . 
It was as though the man knew he had only a moment to live , and meant to do that one thing well in the short time left him . 
Clay sprang to one side and ran toward him , dodging to the right and left , but Mendoza followed his movements carefully with his revolver . 
It lasted but an instant . 
Then the Spaniard threw his arm suddenly across his face , drove the heel of his boot into the turf , and spinning about on it fell forward . 
The death of Mendoza left his followers without a leader and without a cause . 
They threw their muskets on the ground and held their hands above their heads , shrieking for mercy . 
The native officers sprang upon Clay and embraced him after their fashion , hailing him as the Liberator of Olancho , as the Preserver of the Constitution , and their brother patriot . 
Then one of them climbed to the top of a gilt and marble table and proclaimed him military President . 
You'll proclaim yourself an idiot , if you don't get down from there , '' Clay said , laughing . 
I thank you for permitting me to serve with you , gentlemen . 
I shall have great pleasure in telling our President how well you acquitted yourself in this row battle , I mean . 
You'd like that , wouldn't you ? '' But the natives protested that that honor was for him alone . 
Clay declined it , pleading that he must look after his wounded . 
I can hardly believe there are any dead , '' he said to Kirkland . 
For , if it takes two thousand bullets to kill a man in European warfare , it must require about two hundred thousand to kill a man in South America . 
'' He told Kirkland to march his men back to the mines and to see that there were no stragglers . 
If they want to celebrate , let them celebrate when they get to the mines , but not here . 
They have made a good record to day and I won't have it spoiled by rioting . 
They shall have their reward later . 
Between Rojas and Mr. Langham they should all be rich men . 
'' The cheering from the housetops since the firing ceased had changed suddenly into hand clappings , and the cries , though still undistinguishable , were of a different sound . 
He gave a shout of pleasure , and Kirkland and the two boys ran with him up the slope , crowding each other to get a better view . 
An American flag floated above the white helmets of the marines . 
Each group to which he addressed himself pointed to Clay . 
The lieutenant saluted him doubtfully . 
Can you tell me who is in command here ? '' he asked . 
He spoke somewhat sharply , for Clay was not a military looking personage , covered as he was with dust and perspiration , and with his sombrero on the back of his head . 
My instructions are to recognize no belligerents , but to report to the Government party . 
Now , who is the Government party ? '' Clay brought the red barred flag down with a jerk , and ripped it free from the halyards . 
Kirkland and the two boys were watching him with amused smiles . 
I appreciate your difficulty , '' he said . 
President Alvarez is dead , and General Mendoza , who tried to make himself Dictator , is also dead , and the real President , General Rojas , is still in jail . 
So at present I suppose that I represent the Government party , at least I am the man named Clay . 
It hadn't occurred to me before , but , until Rojas is free , I guess I am the Dictator of Olancho . 
Is Madame Alvarez on board your ship ? '' Yes , she is with us , '' the officer replied , in some confusion . 
'' Six of the native officers had approached as the lieutenant was speaking and saluted Clay gravely . 
We have followed your instructions , '' one of them said , and the regiments are ready to march with the prisoners . 
Have you any further orders for us can we deliver any messages to General Rojas ? '' Present my congratulations to General Rojas , and best wishes , '' said Clay . 
And tell him for me , that it would please me greatly if he would liberate an American citizen named Burke , who is at present in the cuartel . 
And that I wish him to promote all of you gentlemen one grade and give each of you the Star of Olancho . 
Tell him that in my opinion you have deserved even higher reward and honor at his hands . 
'' The boy lieutenants broke out into a chorus of delighted thanks . 
They assured Clay that he was most gracious that he overwhelmed them , and that it was honor enough for them that they had served under him . 
But Clay laughed , and drove them off with a paternal wave of the hand . 
Are you from the States ? '' he asked as they moved toward the man of war's men . 
I am , thank God . 
Why not ? '' I thought you were , but you saluted like an Englishman . 
'' I was an officer in the English army once in the Soudan , when they were short of officers . 
'' Clay shook his head and looked wistfully at the ranks of the blue jackets drawn up on either side of them . 
The horses had been brought out and Langham and MacWilliams were waiting for him to mount . 
I have worn several uniforms since I was a boy , '' said Clay . 
But never that of my own country . 
'' The people were cheering him from every part of the square . 
Women waved their hands from balconies and housetops , and men climbed to awnings and lampposts and shouted his name . 
The officers and men of the landing party took note of him and of this reception out of the corner of their eyes , and wondered . 
And what had I better do ? '' asked the commanding officer . 
He won't be more than an hour , now . 
We shall be coming over to pay our respects to your captain to morrow . 
Glad to have met you . 
'' Well , I'm glad to have met you , '' answered the officer , heartily . 
'' Clay laughed like a boy as he swung himself into the saddle . 
The officer stepped back and gave the command the middies raised their swords and Clay passed between massed rows of his countrymen with their muskets held rigidly toward him . 
The housetops rocked again at the sight , and as he rode out into the brilliant sunshine , his eyes were wet and winking . 
Look back , Clay , '' he said . 
Take a last look at it , you'll never see it after to day . 
Turn again , turn again , Dictator of Olancho . 
'' The men laughed and drew rein as he bade them , and looked back up the narrow street . 
You had it all your own way an hour ago , '' MacWilliams said , mockingly . 
You could have sent Rojas into exile , and made us all Cabinet Ministers and you gave it up for a girl . 
Now , you're Dictator of Olancho . 
What will you be to morrow ? To morrow you will be Andrew Langham's son in law Benedict , the married man . 
Andrew Langham's son in law cannot ask his wife to live in such a hole as this , so Goodbye , Mr. Clay . 
We have been long together . 
'' Clay and Langham looked curiously at the boy to see if he were in earnest , but MacWilliams would not meet their eyes . 
That's what you're giving up . 
Take a good look at it . 
You'll never see it again . 
The captain stopped at the open entrance of the Social Hall . 
If any of you ladies want to take your last look at Olancho you've got to come now , '' he said . 
We'll lose the Valencia light in the next quarter hour . 
'' Miss Langham and King looked up from their novels and smiled , and Miss Langham shook her head . 
I've taken three final farewells of Olancho already , '' she said before we went down to dinner , and when the sun set , and when the moon rose . 
I have no more sentiment left to draw on . 
Do you want to go ? '' she asked . 
I'm very comfortable , thank you , '' King said , and returned to the consideration of his novel . 
But Clay and Hope arose at the captain's suggestion with suspicious alacrity , and stepped out upon the empty deck , and into the encompassing darkness , with a little sigh of relief . 
Alice Langham looked after them somewhat wistfully and bit the edges of her book . 
She sat for some time with her brows knitted , glancing occasionally and critically toward King and up with unseeing eyes at the swinging lamps of the saloon . 
Clay and Hope stopped at the door of the chief engineer's cabin and said they had come to pay him a visit . 
And then they passed on to the door of the smoking room and beckoned MacWilliams to come out and join them . 
His manner as he did so bristled with importance , and he drew them eagerly to the rail . 
I've just been having a chat with Captain Burke , '' he said , in an undertone . 
He's been telling Langham and me about a new game that's better than running railroads . 
He says it's a mountainous country , and all you have to do is to stand on the passes and roll rocks down on the Turks as they come in . 
It sounds easy , doesn't it ? '' Then you're thinking of turning professional filibuster yourself ? '' said Clay . 
Well , I don't know . 
It sounds more interesting than engineering . 
He says there is always something to fight about if you look for it . 
And I must say the condition of those poor Macedonians does appeal to me . 
Think of them all alone down there bullied by that Sultan of Turkey , and wanting to be free and independent . 
You , as an American citizen , ought to be the last person in the world to throw cold water on an undertaking like that . 
In the name of Liberty now ? '' I don't object set them free , of course , '' laughed Clay . 
Let me know when you're going to do it , and Hope and I will run over and look on . 
I should like to see you and Burke and the Prince of Macedonia rolling rocks down on the Turkish Empire . 
'' Hope and Clay passed on up the deck laughing , and MacWilliams looked after them with a fond and paternal smile . 
Do you see that long line of lamps off our port bow ? '' asked Clay . 
And that mass of light that you think is the Milky Way , is the glare of the New York street lamps thrown up against the sky . 
'' Are we so near as that ? '' said Hope , smiling . 
And what lies over there ? '' she asked , pointing to the east . 
Over there is the coast of Africa . 
'' Algiers , '' sighed Hope , where you were a soldier of Africa , and rode across the deserts . 
Will you take me there ? '' There , of course , but to Gibraltar first , where we will drive along the Alameda by moonlight . 
I drove there once coming home from a mess dinner with the Colonel . 
The drive lies between broad white balustrades , and the moon shone down on us between the leaves of the Spanish bayonet . 
It was like an Italian garden . 
But he did not see it , and he would talk to me about the Watkins range finder on the lower ramparts , and he puffed on a huge cigar . 
And we won't talk of range finders , will we ? There to the North is Paris your Paris , and my Paris , with London only eight hours away . 
And you will wear the finest tiara we can get on Bond Street , but no one will look at it they will only look at you . 
And I will feel very miserable and tease you to come home . 
'' Hope put her hand in his , and he held her finger tips to his lips for an instant and closed his other hand upon hers . 
And after that ? '' asked Hope . 
'' Well , so you would , '' said Hope , calmly . 
That's what I said you'd say , '' laughed Clay . 
Dearest , '' he begged , promise me something . 
Promise me that you are going to be very happy . 
The ship's bell sounded eight times , and Hope moved slightly . 
So late as that , '' she sighed . 
We must be going back . 
His voice seemed to be a part of the murmuring sea and the welcoming winds . 
Listen , '' said Clay . 
Eight bells , '' the voice sang from the darkness . 
The for'ard light's shining bright and all's well . 
