Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
Of the ladies with whose encounters with the law I propose to deal several were assoiled of the charges against them . 
My proposed facetiousness put me in peril of libel . 
Messalina comes up in memory . 
The Empress Theodora under the pen of a psychological expert becomes nothing more dire than a clever little whore disguised in imperial purple . 
On the mention of poison Lucretia Borgia springs to mind . 
Nobody thought anything of them . 
And to have accused the Borgia girl , or her relatives , of such inconsiderable lapses would have been to evoke mere shrugging . 
But incest , of course , was horrible . 
The writers paid by the party antagonistic to the Borgia growth in power therefore slung the more scurrile accusation . 
But there is , in truth , just about as much foundation for the charge as there is for the other , that Lucretia was a poisoner . 
But in mere honesty , if in nothing else , it behoves the conscientious writer to examine the sources of his information . 
The sources may be they too frequently are contaminated by political rancour and bias , and calumnious accusation against historical figures too often is founded on mere envy . 
to attach the darkest meanings to the words they translate . 
In this regard , and still apropos the Borgias , I draw once again on Rafael Sabatini for an example of what I mean . 
The diarist Infessura , who was not there , takes it upon himself to describe the comedy as lascivious . 
A statue was made by Guglielmo della Porta of Julia Farnese , Alexander's beautiful second mistress . 
It was placed on the tomb of her brother Alessandro . 
A Pope at a later date provided the lady , portrayed in a state of nature , with a silver robe because , say the gossips , the statue was indecent . 
Not at all it was to prevent recurrence of an incident in which the sculptured Julia took a static part with a German student afflicted with sex mania . 
I become , however , a trifle excursive , I think . 
If I do the blame lies on those partisan writers to whom I have alluded . 
They have a way of leading their incautious latter day brethren up the garden . 
They hint at flesh eating lilies by the pond at the path's end , and you find nothing more prone to sarcophagy than harmless primulas . 
II Messalina , Locusta , Lucretia , Theodora , they step aside in this particular review of peccant women . 
Cleopatra , supposed to have poisoned slaves in the spirit of scientific research , or perhaps as punishment for having handed her the wrong lipstick , also is set aside . 
Their stories are plainly and excellently told in the Scriptural manner , and the adding of detail would be mere fictional exercise . 
Something , perhaps , might be done for them by way of deducing their characters and physical shortcomings through examination of their deeds and motives but this may be left to psychiatrists . 
There is room here merely for a soupcon of psychology just as much , in fact , as may afford the writer an easy turn from one plain narrative to another . 
You will have no more of it than amounts , say , to the pinch of fennel that should go into the sauce for mackerel . 
The bother is that so many of them have found it out . 
The scanty material regarding her has been turned over so often that it has become somewhat tattered , and has worn rather thin for refashioning . 
The same may be said for Hieronyma Spara , a direct poisoner and Toffana's contemporary . 
In the abundance of material that criminal history provides about women choice becomes difficult . 
There is , for example , a plethora of women poisoners . 
Wherever a woman alone turns to murder it is a hundred to one that she will select poison as a medium . 
This at first sight may seem a curious fact , but there is for it a perfectly logical explanation , upon which I hope later to touch briefly . 
The concern of this book , however , is not purely with murder by women , though murder will bulk largely . 
Swindling will be dealt with , and casual allusion made to other crimes . 
But take for the moment the women accused or convicted of poisoning . 
, contrived to envenom twenty six people , and attempted the lives of twelve more . 
Our own Mary Ann Cotton , at work between and , comes in third , with twenty four deaths , at least known , as her bag . 
Mary Ann operated on a system of her own , and many of her victims were her own children . 
She is well worth the lengthier consideration which will be given her in later pages . 
Anna Zwanziger , the earlier monster' of Bavaria , arrested in , was an amateur compared with those three . 
The ladies were sisters , living together in Liverpool . 
With them in the house in Skirvington Street were Flanagan's son John , Thomas Higgins and his daughter Mary , Patrick Jennings and his daughter Margaret . 
John Flanagan died in December . 
His mother drew the insurance money . 
Next year Thomas Higgins married the younger of the sisters , and in the year following Mary Higgins , his daughter , died . 
Her stepmother drew the insurance money . 
The year after that Margaret Jennings , daughter of the lodger , died . 
Once again insurance money was drawn , this time by both sisters . 
Thomas Higgins passed away that same year in a house to which what remained of the menage had removed . 
He was on the point of being buried , as having died of dysentery due to alcoholism , when the suspicions of his brother led the coroner to stop the funeral . 
The brother had heard word of insurance on the life of Thomas . 
The prisoners alone had attended the deceased in the last illnesses . 
Theory went that the poison had been obtained by soaking fly papers . 
Mesdames Flanagan and Higgins were executed at Kirkdale Gaol in March of . 
, with again the unfortunate daughter of a lodger thrown in . 
In the matter of the Liverpool Locustas there is an engaging speculation . 
It was brought to my notice by Mr Alan Brock , author of By Misadventure and Further Evidence . 
If one were to confine oneself merely to those employing arsenic the list would still be formidable . 
Mary Blandy , who callously slew her father with arsenic supplied her by her lover at Henley on Thames in , has been a subject for many criminological essayists . 
But there is nothing essentially interesting about her case to make it stand out from others that have attracted less notice in a literary way . 
When we leave the arsenical minded and seek for cases where other poisons were employed there is still no lack of material . 
There is , for example , the case of Sarah Pearson and the woman Black , who were tried at Armagh in June for the murder of the old mother of the latter . 
, was in possession of small savings , some forty pounds , which aroused the cupidity of the younger women . 
Their first attempt at murder was with metallic mercury . 
It rather failed , and the trick was turned by means of three pennyworth of strychnine , bought by Sarah and mixed with the old lady's food . 
A notable point about the case is the amount of metallic mercury found in the old woman's body grains a record . 
Here the motive for the murder was the insurance made by Ansell upon the life of her sister , a young woman of weak intellect confined in Leavesden Asylum , Watford . 
The sum assured was only L s . 
There is , at root , no case of murder proved and accepted as such which does not contain its points of interest for the criminological writer . 
The sigh of envy will merge into an exhalation of joy over the artistry of it . 
And one may turn , wholeheartedly and inspired , to see what can be made of one's own catch of gudgeon . 
III More deadly than the male . 
'' Kipling's line about the female of the species has been quoted , particularly as a text for dissertation on the female criminal , perhaps rather too often . 
There is always a temptation to use the easy gambit . 
It is quite probable that there are moments in a woman's life when she does become more deadly than the male . 
The probability is one which no man of age and experience will lack instance for making a fact . 
Without seeking to become profound in the matter I will say this it is but lightly as compared with a man that one need scratch a woman to come on the natural creature . 
Now , your natural creature , not inhibited by reason , lives by theft , murder , and dissimulation . 
It lives , even as regards the male , but for one purpose to continue its species . 
All that stuff about honour , Queensberry rules , playing the game , and what not will go by the board . 
And she will fight you with tooth and talon , with lies , with blows below the belt metaphorically , of course . 
It may well be that you have done nothing more than hurt her pride the civilized part of her . 
But instinctively she will fight you as the mother animal , either potentially or in being . 
It will not occur to her that she is doing so . 
Nor will it occur to you . 
But the fact that she is fighting at all will bring it about , for fighting to any female animal means defence of her young . 
She may not have any young in being . 
That does not affect the case . 
She will fight for the ova she carries , for the ova she has yet to develop . 
Beyond all reason , deep , instinct deep , within her she is the carrier of the race . 
This instinct is so profound that she will have no recollection in a crisis of the myriads of her like , but will think of herself as the race's one chance to persist . 
This small flight into biology is made merely for the dim light it may cast on the Kipling half truth . 
It is not made to explain why women criminals are more deadly , more cruel , more deeply lost in turpitude , than their male colleagues . 
But it may help to explain why so many crime writers , following Lombroso , THINK the female more deadly . 
A drunken woman , however , and for example , is not essentially more degraded than a drunken man . 
This in spite of popular belief . 
A nymphomaniac is not essentially more degraded than a brothel haunting male . 
They are economic reasons usually , and physical , and not adherent to any inevitably weaker moral fibre in the woman . 
Women as a rule have less command of money than men . 
With loss of health goes loss of earning power , loss of caste . 
The descent , in general , must be quicker . 
It is much the same in nymphomania . 
But it is useless and canting to say that peccant women are worse than men . 
If we are kind we say so merely because we are more apprehensive for them . 
Safe women , with but rare exceptions , are notably callous about their sisters astray , and the we'' I have used must be taken generally to signify men . 
We see the danger for erring women , danger economic and physical . 
Thinking in terms of the phrase that a woman's place is the home , '' we wonder what will become of them . 
We wonder anxiously what man , braver or less fastidious than ourselves , will accept the burden of rescuing them , give them the sanctuary of a home . 
We see them as helpless , pitiable beings . 
We are shocked to see them fall so low . 
There is something of this rather maudlin mentality , generally speaking , in our way of regarding women criminals . 
The lion and the lioness both live by murder , and until gravidity makes her slow for the chase the breeding female is by all accounts the more dangerous . 
The she bear will just as readily eat up a colony of grubs or despoil the husbandry of the bees as will her mate . 
Less squeamish than Lombroso or Mr Barry , I gather aloud that the tortures have to do with the organs of generation . 
And as regards the invention of sickening punishment we need go no farther afield in search for ingenuity than the list of English kings . 
Dirty Jamie the Sixth of Scotland and First of England , under mask of retributive justice , could exercise a vein of cruelty that might have turned a Red Indian green with envy . 
The average murderess , determined on the elimination of , for example , a husband , must be aware that in physical encounter she would have no chance . 
Then , again , there is in women an almost inborn aversion to the use of weapons . 
Once in a way , where the murderess was of Amazonian type , physical means have been employed for the slaying . 
In this regard Kate Webster , who in at Richmond murdered and dismembered Mrs Julia Thomas , springs to mind . 
She was , from all accounts , an exceedingly virile young woman , strong as a pony , and with a devil of a temper . 
But there is no need to account for it . 
Such a thing is no phenomenon . 
This woman , who had a voice like a raven , seemed able to give quick and snappy answers to the chaff by frequenters of the taberna . 
Few people in the day time , either men or women , would pass the house if 'Fina happened to be showing without stopping to have a word with her . 
She was not at all gentle in manner , but children ran to her . 
And yet , without being enormously fat , 'Fina must have weighed close on fifteen stone . 
She had forearms and biceps like a coal heaver's . 
She was black haired , heavy browed , squish nosed , moled , and swarthy , and she had a beard and moustache far beyond the stage of incipiency . 
Yet those two British seamen , fairly decent men , neither drunk nor brutish , could not have been more attracted had 'Fina had the beauty of the Mona Lisa herself . 
I may add that there were other women handy and that the seamen knew of them . 
This in parenthesis , I hope not inappropriately . 
Where the selected victim , or victims , is , or are , feeble bodied you will frequently find the murderess using physical means to her end . 
Sarah Malcolm , whose case will form one of the chief features of this volume , is an instance in point . 
Marguerite Diblanc , who strangled Mme Reil in the latter's house in Park Lane on a day in April , is another . 
Amelia Dyer , the baby farmer , also strangled her charges . 
Elizabeth Brownrigg beat the feeble Mary Clifford to death . 
Fat , gross featured , far from attractive though she was , her victims were all men who had married or had wanted to marry her . 
Mr Dilnot says these victims almost certainly numbered more than a hundred . 
'' She murdered for money , using chloral to stupefy , and an axe for the actual killing . 
was the date of her death at La Porte , U. S. A. Bles , . 
It occurs when the female killer happens to be dramatical minded that she will use a pistol . 
, is of this kind . 
She and the daughter , Paule Jacques , seem to have seen themselves as wild , wild women from the Mexico where they had sometime lived , and were always flourishing revolvers . 
They have had contact with their victims in an attendant capacity . 
I have a suspicion , moreover , that a good number of women poisoners actually chose the medium as THE KINDEST WAY . 
But no lethal chamber being available suggest poison , albeit unspecified , and the method will more readily commend itself . 
This among women with no murderous instincts whatever . 
No need here , I think , to number the cases where the ministrations of murderers to their victims have aroused the almost tearful admiration of beholders . 
This is ground traversed so often that its features are as familiar as those of one's own house door . 
One hears and reads , however , a great deal about the sense of power which gradually steals upon the poisoner . 
It is a speculation upon which I am not ready to argue . 
There is , indeed , chapter and verse for believing that poisoners have arrived at a sense of omnipotence . 
This ghoulish satisfaction , with the conjectured feeling of omnipotence , is not peculiar to the woman poisoner . 
Wainewright , with his reason for poisoning Helen Abercrombie Upon my soul I don't know , unless it was that her legs were too thick'' is quite on a par with Anna Zwanziger . 
The supposed sense of power does not even belong exclusively to the poisoner . 
Jack the Ripper manifestly had something of the same idea about his use of the knife . 
I will set you Gilles against anything that can be brought forward as a monster in cruelty among women . 
recording the death of the wife he so cruelly murdered March , , Saturday . 
Died here at A. M. Mary Jane , my own beloved wife , aged thirty eight years . 
No torment surrounded her bedside the foul liar ! but like a calm peaceful lamb of God passed Minnie away . 
May God and Jesus , Holy Ghost , one in three , welcome Minnie ! Prayer on prayer till mine be o'er everlasting love . 
Save us , Lord , for Thy dear Son ! Against the mean murders of Flanagan and Higgins I will set you Mr Seddon and Mr Smith of the brides in the bath . 
'' IV I am conscious that in arguing against the more deadly than the male'' conception of the woman criminal I am perhaps doing my book no great service . 
But I don't , myself , think so . 
If these women , some of them , are not greater monsters than their male analogues , monsters they still remain . 
If they are not , others of them , greater rogues and cheats than males of like criminal persuasion , cheats and rogues they are beyond cavil . 
The truth of the matter is that I loathe the use of superlatives in serious works on crime . 
There is no romance in crime . 
Romance is life gilded , life idealized . 
Crime is never anything but a sordid business , demonstrably poor in reward to its practitioners . 
But , sordid or not , crime has its human interest . 
Its practitioners are still part of life , human beings , different from law abiding humanity by God alone knows what freak of heredity or kink in brain convolution . 
I do not ask that you should pity these women with whom I have to deal , still less that you should contemn them . 
Something between the two will serve . 
I write the book because I am interested in crime myself , and in the hope that you'll like the reading as much as I like the writing of it . 
In this gate' and that gate , as one may imagine , the douce citizens must have clustered and broke and clustered , like eddied foam on a spated burn . 
It is hard to believe that murder , qua murder , could have been of much more interest to them than the fineness of the weather . 
We have it , however , on reasonable authority , that the murder of the Laird of Warriston did set the people of Auld Reekie'' finely agog . 
John Kincaid , of Warriston , was by way of being one of Edinburgh's notables . 
Even at that time his family was considered to be old . 
He derived from the Kincaids of Kincaid , in Stirlingshire , a family then in possession of large estates in that county and here and there about Lothian . 
His own property of Warriston lay on the outskirts of Edinburgh itself , just above a mile from Holyroodhouse . 
Notable among his possessions was one which he should , from all accounts , dearly have prized , but which there are indications he treated with some contumely . 
This was his wife , Jean Livingstone , a singularly beautiful girl , no more than twenty one years of age at the time when this story opens . 
Jean , like her husband , was a person of good station indeed . 
She was a daughter of the Laird of Dunipace , John Livingstone , and related through him and her mother to people of high consideration in the kingdom . 
News of the violent death of John Kincaid , which had taken place soon after midnight , came quickly to the capital . 
Officers were at once dispatched . 
With her to Edinburgh , under arrest , were brought her nurse and two other servingwomen . 
But I confess being at a loss to understand it . 
Warriston , as indicated , stood a good mile from Edinburgh . 
The informant bringing word of the deed to town , even if he or she covered the distance on horseback , must have taken some time in getting the proper authorities to move . 
Then time would elapse in quantity before the officers dispatched could be at the house . 
Since it must have taken the officers some time to reach the house , one of two things must have happened . 
Available records are irritatingly uninformative upon the arrest of the Lady Warriston . 
, as in ordinary cases , before the magistrates of Edinburgh , or else sent for trial before the baron bailie of the regality of Broughton , in whose jurisdiction Warriston was situated . 
It would perhaps heighten the drama of the story if it could be learned what Jean and her women did between the time of the murder and the arrest . 
It would seem , however , that the Lady Warriston had some intention of taking flight with Weir . 
One is divided between an idea that the horse boy did not want to be hampered and that he was ready for self sacrifice . 
But if it be known I shall fly , and take the crime on me , and none dare pursue you ! '' It was distinctly a determined affair of murder . 
But there is no doubt that , incited by the nurse , Janet Murdo , she set about having her husband killed with a rancour which was very grim indeed . 
A stanza in one ballad runs She has twa weel made feet Far better is her hand She's jimp about the middle As ony willy wand . 
'' The reason for Jean's hatred of her husband appears in the dittay against Robert Weir . 
And there you have it . 
If the allegation against John Kincaid was true it does not seem that he valued his lovely wife as he ought to have done . 
The striking her divers times'' may have been an exaggeration . 
Jean and her women would want to show there had been provocation . 
But there is a naivete , a circumstantial air , about the biting of her in the arm'' which gives it a sort of genuine ring . 
Here and there in the material at hand indications are to be found that the Lady of Warriston had an idea she might not come so badly off on trial . 
Robert Weir was in service , as I have said , with Jean Livingstone's father , the Laird of Dunipace . 
It may have been that he knew Jean before her marriage . 
He seems , at any rate , to have been extremely willing to stand by her . 
He was fetched by the nurse several times from Holyrood to Warriston , but failed to have speech with the lady . 
'' The upshot of the conference was that Weir was secretly led to a laigh'' cellar in the house of Warriston , to await the appointed time for the execution of the murder . 
Weir remained in the cellar until midnight . 
Jean came for him at that hour and led him up into the hall . 
Thence the pair proceeded to the room in which John Kincaid was lying asleep . 
It would appear that they took no great pains to be quiet in their progress , for on entering the room they found Kincaid awakened be thair dyn . 
'' I cannot do better at this point than leave description of the murder as it is given in the dittay against Weir . 
The editor of Pitcairn's Trials remarks in a footnote to the dittay that the quaintness of the ancient style even aggravates the horror of the scene . 
And so the said whilom John was cruelly murdered and slain by the said Robert . 
And fa , the faid vmqle Johnne was crewallie murdreit and flaine be the faid Robert . 
There is something odd about the early hour at which the executions took place . 
In the first place they had applied to have her executed at nine o'clock on the evening of the rd , another unusual hour , but the application was turned down . 
The main idea with them was to have Jean done away with at some hour when the populace would not be expecting the execution . 
and thus , in some measure , lessen the disgrace of the public execution . 
'' Had she been of lesser rank she would certainly have been burned , after being strangled at a stake , as were her nurse and the serving woman . 
This was the appalling fate reserved for convicted women in such cases , and on conviction even of smaller crimes . 
The process was even crueller in instances where the crime had been particularly atrocious . 
sorcery , witchcraft , incantation , poisoning . 
, and the innocent animal participator in his crime burned with him . 
Altogether , the Dunipace family do not exactly shine with a good light as concerns their treatment of the condemned girl . 
Her father stood coldly aside . 
Jean herself was in no mind to be hurried to the scaffold as early as her relatives would have had her conveyed . 
to see the sunrise , and to begin with the magistrates granted her request . 
It would appear , however , that Jean's blood relations opposed the concession so strongly that it was almost immediately rescinded . 
The culprit had to die in the grey dark of the morning , before anyone was likely to be astir . 
In certain directions there was not a little heart burning about the untimely hour at which it was manoeuvred the execution should be carried out . 
The writer of a Memorial , from which this piece of information is drawn , refrains very cautiously from mentioning the objectors by name . 
But it is not difficult , from the colour of their objections , to decide that these people belonged to the type still known in Scotland as the unco guid . 
They saw in the execution of this fair malefactor a moral lesson and a solemn warning which would have a salutary and uplifting effect upon the spectators . 
'' But perhaps one does those worthies an injustice in attributing cant motives to their desire that as many people as possible should see Jean die . 
It had probably reached them that the Lady Warriston's repentance had been complete , and that after conviction of her sin had come to her her conduct had been sweet and seemly . 
They were of their day and age , those people , accustomed almost daily to beheadings , stranglings , burnings , hangings , and dismemberings . 
'' It was not so often that justice exacted the extreme penalty from a young woman of rank and beauty . 
With dreadful objects so familiar'' in the way of public executions , it was likely enough that pity in the commonalty was choked with custom of fell deeds . 
'' Something out of the way in the nature of a dreadful object lesson might stir the hearts of the populace and make them conscious of the Wrath to Come . 
And Jean Livingstone did die a good death . 
The Memorial which I have mentioned is upon Jean's conversion' in prison . 
It is written by one who was both a seer and hearer of what was spoken by the Lady Warriston . 
As to these women who was challenged with me , '' the confession goes on , I will also tell my mind concerning them . 
'' It is a misfortune , equalling that of the lack of information regarding the character of Jean's husband , that there is so little about the character of the nurse . 
She was , it is to be presumed , an older woman than her mistress , probably nurse to Jean in her infancy . 
Of the whole confession that last is the most revealing touch . 
It is hardly just to fall into pity for Jean simply because she was young and lovely . 
In the several days during which she was sending for Weir , but failing to have speech with him , she had time to review her intention of having her husband murdered . 
If the nurse was the prime mover in the plot Jean was an unrelenting abettor . 
But that confession of trying to pretend weeping and being unable to find tears is a revelation . 
I can think of nothing more indicative of terror and misery in a woman than that she should want to cry and be unable to . 
Your genuinely hypocritical murderer , male as well as female , can always work up self pity easily and induce the streaming eye . 
It is from internal evidences such as this that one may conclude the repentance of Jean Livingstone , as shown in her confession , to have been sincere . 
There was , we are informed by the memorialist , nothing maudlin in her conduct after condemnation . 
'' They were tough minded men , those Scots divines who ministered to her at the last , too stern in their theology to be misled by any pretence at finding grace . 
And no pretty ways of Jean's would have deceived them . 
The constancy of behaviour which is vouched for , not only by the memorialist but by other writers , stayed with her until the axe fell . 
III She was but a woman and a bairn , being the age of twenty one years , '' says the Memorial . 
When she came to the scaffold , and was carried up upon it , she looked up to the Maiden'' with two longsome looks , for she had never seen it before . 
And the Lord hath brought me hither to be an example to you , that you may not fall into the like sin as I have done . 
I would give a good deal to know if Jean did actually refer to the Almighty as the Lord's Majesty , '' and hope for grace at his Majesty's hands . 
As a Scot , I have no recollection of ever hearing the Almighty referred to as the Lord's Majesty'' or as his Majesty . 
'' It does not ring naturally to my ear . 
Nor , at the long distance from which I recollect reading works of early Scottish divines , can I think of these forms being used in such a context . 
However that may be , Jean's conduct seems to have been heroic and unfaltering . 
She prayed , and one of her relations or friends brought a clean cloath'' to tie over her eyes . 
Jean herself had prepared for this operation , for she took a pin out of her mouth and gave it into the friend's hand to help the fastening . 
The minister memorialist , having taken farewell of her for the last time , could not bear the prospect of what was about to happen . 
He descended from the scaffold and went away . 
IV On the th of June , , Robert Weir , sumtyme servande to the Laird of Dynniepace , '' was brought to knowledge of an assize . 
He was Dilaitit of airt and pairt of the crewall Murthour of umqle Johnne Kincaid of Wariestoune committit the first of Julij , yeiris . 
Quhilk was pronouncet for dome . 
A row' is a wheel . 
This is one of the very few instances on which the terrible and vicious punishment of breaking on a wheel' was employed in Scotland . 
Jean Livingstone's accomplice was , according to Birrell's Diary , broken on a cartwheel , with the coulter of a plough in the hand of the hangman . 
The exotic method of execution suggests experiment by King Jamie . 
V The Memorial before mentioned is , in the original , a manuscript belonging to the Advocates' Library of Edinburgh . 
A printed copy was made in , under the editorship of J. Sharpe , in the same city . 
This edition contains , among other more relative matter , a reprint of a newspaper account of an execution by strangling and burning at the stake . 
The woman concerned was not the last victim in Britain of this form of execution . 
The honour , I believe , belongs to one Anne Cruttenden . 
The account is full of gruesome and graphic detail , but the observer preserves quite an air of detachment IVELCHESTER th May , . 
Yesterday Mary Norwood , for poisoning her husband , Joseph Norwood , of Axbridge , in this county Somerset , was burnt here pursuant to her sentence . 
She was put on a hurdle , and drawn on a sledge to the place of execution , which was very near the gallows . 
Nothing could be more affecting than to behold , after her bowels fell out , the fire flaming between her ribs , issuing out of her ears , mouth , eyeholes , etc . 
In short , it was so terrible a sight that great numbers turned their backs and screamed out , not being able to look at it . 
It was an accident , none the less , which in its ultimate results was to put several of the necks craned to see it in peril of the hangman's noose . 
That divinely appointed monarch King James the Sixth of Scotland and First of England had an eye for manly beauty . 
Though he could contrive the direst of cruelties to be committed out of his sight , the actual spectacle of physical suffering in the human made him squeamish . 
King James himself gave orders for the disposition of the sufferer , found lodgings for him , sent his own surgeon , and was constant in his visits to the convalescent . 
Thereafter the rise of Robert Carr was meteoric . 
Knighted , he became Viscount Rochester , a member of the Privy Council , then Earl of Somerset , Knight of the Garter , all in a very few years . 
It was in that he fell from his horse , under the King's nose . 
In he was at the height of his power in England . 
Return we for a moment , however , to that day in the Whitehall tilt yard . 
It is related that one woman whose life and fate were to be bound with Carr's was in the ladies' gallery . 
It is very probable that a second woman , whose association with the first did much to seal Carr's doom , was also a spectator . 
Frances Howard was the daughter of that famous Elizabethan seaman Thomas Howard , Earl of Suffolk . 
On that day in September she would be just over fifteen years of age . 
It is said that she was singularly lovely . 
At the age of thirteen Frances had been married to Robert Devereux , third Earl of Essex , then but a year older than herself . 
Of the two women , so closely linked in fate , the second is perhaps the more interesting study . 
Anne Turner was something older than the Countess of Essex . 
In the various records of the strange piece of history which is here to be dealt with there are many allusions to a long association between the two . 
Almost a foster sister relationship seems to be implied , but actual detail is irritatingly absent . 
It is not to be ascertained whether she was not already a widow at that time . 
We can only judge from circumstantial evidence brought forward later . 
In , at all events , Mrs Turner was well known about the Court , and was quite certainly a widow . 
Her husband had been a well known medical man , one George Turner , a graduate of St John's College , Cambridge . 
He had been a protege of Queen Elizabeth . 
There was a house in Paternoster Row and a series of notebooks . 
Like many another physician of his time , George Turner had been a dabbler in more arts than that of medicine , an investigator in sciences other than pathology . 
His notebooks would appear to have contained more than remedial prescriptions for agues , fevers , and rheums . 
There was , for example , a recipe for a yellow starch which , says Rafael Sabatini , in his fine romance The Minion , she dispensed as her own invention . 
This had become so widely fashionable for ruffs and pickadills that of itself it had rendered her famous . 
on a prescription for a hair restorer given her by a kindly doctor . 
She also invented' many a lotion and unguent for the preservation and creation of beauty . 
But at about this point analogy stops . 
Rachel was a botcher and a bungler , a very cobbler , beside Anne Turner . 
Edinburgh , W. Green and Son , Ltd . 
Anne , there is every cause for assurance , was in herself the best advertisement for her wares . 
Rachel was a fat old hag . 
Anne , prettily fair , little boned , and deliciously fleshed , was neat and elegant . 
The impression one gets of her from all the records , even the most prejudiced against her , is that she was a very cuddlesome morsel indeed . 
She was , in addition , demonstrably clever . 
Such a man of talent as Inigo Jones supported the decoration of many of the masques he set on the stage with costumes of Anne's design and confection . 
Rachel could neither read nor write . 
It was also rumoured , '' says Mr Sabatini , that she amassed gold in another and less licit manner that she dabbled in fortune telling and the arts of divination . 
'' We shall see , as the story develops , that the rumour had some foundation . 
In the elegant little widow was flourishing enough to be able to maintain a lover in good style . 
This was Sir Arthur Mainwaring , member of a Cheshire family of good repute but of no great wealth . 
By him she had three children . 
Mainwaring was attached in some fashion to the suite of the Prince of Wales , Prince Henry . 
And her pride was absolute . 
It would , says a contemporary diarist , make her fly at any pitch rather than fall into the jaws of want . 
'' Antony Weldon , The Court and Character of King James . 
II In his romance The Minion , Rafael Sabatini makes the first meeting of Anne Turner and the Countess of Essex occur in or . 
With this date Judge A. E. Parry , in his book The Overbury Mystery , seems to agree in part . 
There is , however , warrant enough for believing that the two women had met long before that time . 
'' She also made the like extenuative plea on the scaffold . 
Judge Parry seems to follow some of the contemporary writers in assuming that Anne was a spy in the pay of the Lord Privy Seal , the Earl of Northampton . 
If this was so there is further ground for believing that Anne and Lady Essex had earlier contacts , for Northampton was Lady Essex's great uncle . 
It was about this time , , that Lady Essex began to find herself interested in the handsome Robert Carr , then Viscount Rochester . 
Having reached the mature age of eighteen , the lovely Frances had been brought by her mother , the Countess of Suffolk , to Court . 
Frances fell in love with the King's minion . 
Rochester , it would appear , did not immediately respond to the lady's advances . 
They were probably too shy , too tentative , to attract Rochester's attention . 
Whether the acquaintance of Lady Essex with Mrs Turner was of long standing or not , it was to the versatile Anne that her ladyship turned as confidante . 
The hint regarding Anne's skill in divination will be remembered . 
She was too much the opportunist to let any consideration of old acquaintance interfere with working such a potential gold mine as now seemed to lie open to her pretty but prehensile fingers . 
She was also ardent in her desire . 
The game was too big for Anne to play single handed . 
A real expert in cozening , a master of guile , was wanted to exploit the opportunity to its limit . 
It is a curious phenomenon , and one that constantly recurs in the history of cozenage , how people who live by spoof fall victims so readily to spoofery . 
There is no doubt of it . 
Apart from that genuine and honest talent in costume design which made her work acceptable to such an outstanding genius as Inigo Jones , she lived by guile . 
But I have now to invite you to see her at the feet of one of the silliest charlatans who ever lived . 
There is , of course , the possibility that Anne sat at the feet of this silly charlatan for what she might learn for the extension of her own technique . 
The connexion with Dr Forman was part of the legacy left Anne by Dr Turner . 
Antony Weldon , the contemporary writer already quoted , is something too scurrilous and too apparently biased to be altogether a trustworthy authority . 
who can always tell with circumstance how the duchess came to have a black baby , and the exact composition of the party at which Midas played at strip poker . 
But he was , like many of his kind , an amusing enough companion for the idle moment , and his description of Dr Forman is probably fairly close to the truth . 
By this trick he kept them in awe , if they should complain of his abusing them , as in truth he did nothing else . 
And here comes an addendum , the point of which finds confirmation elsewhere . 
It has reference to the trial of Anne Turner , to which we shall come later . 
'' Whatever Anne's reason for doing so , it was to this scortatory old scab that she turned for help in cozening the fair young Countess . 
The devil knows to what obscene ritual the girl was introduced . 
Magic or no magic , philtre or no philtre , it was not long before Lady Essex had her wish . 
The Viscount Rochester fell as desperately in love with her as she was with him . 
There was , you may be sure , no small amount of scandalous chatter in the Court over the quickly obvious attachment the one to the other of this handsome couple . 
So much of this scandalous chatter has found record by the pens of contemporary and later gossip writers that it is hard indeed to extract the truth . 
It was not , if the Rabelaisian trend in so much of Jacobean writing be any indication , a particularly moral age . 
Few ages in history are . 
It was not , with a reputed pervert as the fount of honour , a particularly moral Court . 
Since the emergence of the lovely young Countess from tutelage at Audley End there had been no lack of suitors for her favour . 
It is hardly likely that there would be complete abnegation of salty gossip among the ladies of the Court , their Apollo being snatched by a mere chit of a girl . 
In respect of the latter part of his intention he immediately found himself balked . 
It had been better for young Essex to have agreed at once . 
He would have spared himself , ultimately , a great deal of humiliation through ridicule . 
But he tried to enforce his rights as a husband , a proceeding than which there is none more absurd should the wife prove obdurate . 
And prove obdurate his wife did . 
She was to be moved neither by threat nor by pleading . 
A comedy situation , yes , and at this distance almost farcical but for certain elements in it approaching tragedy . 
It was also much more costly . 
The first dose was administered to Lord Essex just before his departure from a visit to his wife at Audley End . 
On his arrival back in London he was taken violently ill , so ill that in the weeks he lay in bed his life was despaired of . 
Only the intervention of the King's own physician , one Sir Theodore Mayerne , would appear to have saved him . 
Her husband slowly convalescing , Lady Essex was summoned by her family back to London . 
In London , while Lord Essex mended in health , she was much in the company of her sweet Turner . 
Those meetings were put a stop to by the recovery of Lord Essex , and with his recovery his lordship exhibited a new mood of determination . 
Backed by her ladyship's family , he ordered her to accompany him to their country place of Chartley . 
Her ladyship had to obey . 
The stages of the journey were marked by the nightly illness of his lordship . 
By the time they arrived at Chartley itself he was in a condition little if at all less dangerous than that from which he had been rescued by the King's physician . 
His illness lasted for weeks , and during this time her ladyship wrote many a letter to Anne Turner and to Dr Forman . 
She was afraid his lordship would live . 
She was afraid his lordship would die . 
She was afraid she would lose the love of Rochester . 
She begged Anne Turner and Forman to work their best magic for her aid . 
His attempts to assert his rights as a husband did begin again . 
The struggle between them , Frances constant in her obduracy , lasted several months . 
Her obstinacy wore down his . 
At long last he let her go . 
But about the time when Lady Essex finally parted with her husband Cecil died , depriving England of her keenest brain and the staunchest heart in her causes . 
Northampton , as stated , held the office of Lord Privy Seal . 
The Howard family had done the State great service in the past . 
Its present representatives , Northampton and Suffolk , were anxious to do the State great service , as they conceived it , in the future . 
They were , however , Catholics in all but open acknowledgment , and as such were opposed by the Protestants , who had at their head Prince Henry . 
This was an opposition that they might have stomached . 
It was one that they might even have got over , for the Prince and his father , the King , were not the best of friends . 
The obstacle to their ambitions , and one they found hard to stomach , was the upstart Rochester . 
And even Rochester would hardly have stood in their way had his power in the Council depended on his own ability . 
The brain that directed Robert Carr belonged to another man . 
This was Sir Thomas Overbury . 
There was , it will be apprehended , a possible weakness on the Overbury side . 
The gemel chain , like that of many links , is merely as strong as its weakest member . 
Overbury had no approach to the King save through the King's favourite . 
Rochester could have no real weight with the King , at least in affairs of State , except what he borrowed from Overbury . 
Divided , the two were powerless . 
No , more than that , there had to be no flaw in their linking . 
The wily Northampton , one may be certain , was fully aware of this possible weakness in the combination opposed to his advancement . 
Unknown to him , circumstance already had begun to operate in his favour . 
Overbury was Rochester's tutor in more than appertained to affairs of State . 
Northampton was backing the petition . 
If it succeeded Lady Essex would be free to marry Rochester . 
And the marriage , since Northampton was not the man to give except in the expectation of plenty , would plant the unwary Rochester on the hearth of his own and Overbury's enemies . 
With Rochester in the Howard camp there would be short shrift for Thomas Overbury . 
There would be , though Rochester in his infatuation seemed blind to the fact , as short a shrift as the Howards could contrive for the King's minion . 
In that march of inevitability which marks all real tragedy the road that is followed forks ever and again with an if . 
Overbury's counsel had made Carr great . 
With nothing but his good looks and his personal charm , his only real attributes , Carr had been no more than King James's creature . 
Of himself Carr was the toom tabard' of earlier parlance in his native country , the stuffed shirt' of a later and more remote generation . 
But beyond the coalition for mutual help that existed between Overbury and Carr , an arrangement which might have thrived on a basis merely material , there was a deep and splendid friendship . 
Stuffed shirt' or not , Robert Carr was greatly loved by Overbury . 
Whatever Overbury may have thought of Carr's mental attainments , he had the greatest faith in his loyalty as a friend . 
And here lies the terrible pity in that if' of my choice . 
The love between the two men was great enough to have saved them both . 
It broke on the weakness of Carr . 
Overbury was aware that , honestly presented , the petition by Lady Essex for the annulment of her marriage had little chance of success . 
But for the obstinacy of Essex it might have been granted readily enough . 
He had , however , as we have seen , forced her to live with him as his wife , in appearance at least , for several months in the country . 
There now would be difficulty in putting forward the petition on the ground of non consummation of the marriage . 
It was , nevertheless , on this ground that the petition was brought forward . 
But the non consummation was not attributed , as it might have been , to the continued separation that had begun at the altar the reason given was the impotence of the husband . 
Sir Thomas Overbury , well informed though he usually was , must have been a good deal in the dark regarding the negotiations which had brought the nullity suit to this forward state . 
He had warned Rochester so frankly of the danger into which the scheme was likely to lead him that they had quarrelled and parted . 
Overbury was one of the brightest intelligences of his age . 
, and this without jeopardizing their mutual power to the Howard menace . 
In denying the man who had made him great the complete confidence which their friendship demanded Rochester took the tragically wrong path on his road of destiny . 
But the truth is that when he quarrelled with Overbury he had already betrayed the friendship . 
He had already embarked on the perilous experiment of straddling between two opposed camps . 
It was an experiment that he , least of all men , had the adroitness to bring off . 
He was never in such need of Overbury's brain as when he aligned himself in secret with Overbury's enemies . 
It is entirely probable that in linking up with Northampton Rochester had no mind to injure his friend . 
The bait was the woman he loved . 
Without Northampton's aid the nullity suit could not be put forward , and without the annulment there could be no marriage for him with Frances Howard . 
But he had no sooner joined with Northampton than the very processes against which Overbury had warned him were begun . 
Rochester was trapped , and with him Overbury . 
For the success of the suit , in Northampton's view , Overbury knew too much . 
It was a view to which Rochester was readily persuaded or it was one which he was easily frightened into accepting . 
From that to joining in a plot for being rid of Overbury was but a step . 
Grateful , perhaps , for the undoubted services that Overbury had rendered him , Rochester would be eager enough to find his quondam friend employment . 
If that employment happened to take Overbury out of the country so much the better . 
It was an offer Rochester thought , that he might cause to be repeated . 
The idea was broached to Overbury . 
Overbury was offered an embassy but in Muscovy . 
He had no mind to bury himself in Russia , and he refused the offer on the ground of ill health . 
By doing this he walked into the trap prepared for him . 
Northampton had foreseen the refusal when he promoted the offer on its rearranged terms . 
The King , already incensed against Overbury for some hints at knowledge of facts liable to upset the Essex nullity suit , pretended indignation at the refusal . 
Overbury unwarily repeated it before the Privy Council . 
That was what Northampton wanted . 
The refusal was high contempt of the King's majesty . 
Sir Thomas Overbury was committed to the Tower . 
He might have talked in Paris , or have written from Muscovy . 
He might safely do either in the Tower where gags and bonds were so readily at hand . 
Did Rochester know of the springe set to catch Overbury ? The answer to the question , whether yes or no , hardly matters . 
Since he valued the friendship of that honest man so little as to consort in secret with his enemies , he was knave enough to have been party to the betrayal . 
He did this to the man who had trusted him implicitly , a man that to adapt Overbury's own words from his last poignant letter to Rochester he had more cause to love . 
Knave or fool what does it matter when either is submerged in the coward ? IV Overbury lay in the Tower five months . 
The commission appointed to examine into the Essex nullity suit went into session three weeks after he was imprisoned . 
There happened to be one man in the commission who cared more to be honest than to humour the King . 
This was the Archbishop Abbot . 
The King himself had prepared the petition . 
It was a task that delighted his pedantry , and his petition was designed for immediate acceptance . 
But such was Abbot's opposition that in two or three months the commission ended with divided findings . 
Meantime Overbury in the Tower had been writing letters . 
He had been talking to visitors . 
As time went on , and Rochester did nothing to bring about his enlargement , his writings and sayings became more threatening Rochester's attitude was that patience was needed . 
Overbury had been consigned to the Tower in April . 
In June he complained of illness . 
Rochester wrote to him in sympathetic terms , sending him a powder that he himself had found beneficial , and made his own physician visit the prisoner . 
In the absence of the King and Rochester from London the old Earl was acting as Chief Secretary of State thus proving Overbury to have been a true prophet . 
Northampton issued orders to the Tower that Overbury was to be closely confined , that his man Davies was to be dismissed , and that he was to be denied all visitors . 
In place of his own servant Davies Sir Thomas was allowed the services of an under keeper named Weston , appointed at the same time as Sir Gervase Elwes . 
This man , it is perhaps important to note , had at one time been servant to Mrs Turner . 
The alteration in the personnel of the Tower was almost immediately followed by severe illness on the part of the prisoner . 
The close confinement to which he was subjected , with the lack of exercise , could hardly have been the cause of such a violent sickness . 
It looked more as if it had been brought about by something he had eaten or drunk . 
By this time the conviction he had tried to resist , that Rochester was meanly sacrificing him , became definite . 
Overbury is hardly to be blamed if he came to a resolution to be revenged on his one time friend by bringing him to utter ruin . 
Sir Thomas had an accurate knowledge of the King's character . 
Overbury was getting better of the sickness which had attacked him when suddenly it came upon him again . 
This time he made no bones about saying that he had been poisoned . 
Even at the last Overbury had taken care to give Rochester a chance to prove his fidelity . 
The Archbishop carried Overbury's letter to James , and insisted that Overbury should be heard . 
The King , outward stickler that he was for the letter of the law , had to agree . 
On the Thursday of the week during which the commission was sitting Overbury was due to be called . 
He was ill , but not so ill as he had been . 
On the Tuesday he was visited by the King's physician . 
On the Wednesday he was dead . 
A jury of matrons was impanelled , and made an examination of the lady appellant . 
Its evidence was that she was virgo intacta . 
Seven out of the twelve members of the packed commission voted in favour of the sentence of nullity . 
The kernel of the situation lies in the verdict of the jury of matrons . 
Her ladyship was declared to be a maid . 
If in the finding gossips and scandal mongers found reason for laughter , and decent enough people cause for wonderment , they are hardly to be blamed . 
It is completely in favour of the plea of Lady Essex . 
Sir Thomas Overbury's , had he given evidence , would have been the sole voice against the suit . 
If he had said that in his belief the association of her ladyship with Rochester had been adulterous there was the physical fact adduced by the jury of matrons to confute him . 
Whatever Sir Thomas might have said would have smashed as evidence on that one fact . 
Her ladyship was a virgin . 
He had too great a sense of his own dignity to give himself anything but an heroic role . 
Samson he might play , pulling the pillars of the temple together to involve his enemies , with himself , in magnificent and dramatic ruin . 
Feasible solution is to be come upon only by accepting a not too pretty story which is retailed by Antony Weldon . 
Mrs Turner , we do know , was very much a favourite with the ladies of Sir Thomas Monson's family . 
This Symon was also employed by Mrs Turner to carry food to Overbury in the Tower . 
If the substitution story has any truth in it it might well have been a Monson girl who played the part of the Countess . 
If there was such a plot it is not at all unlikely that Overbury knew of it . 
It is legitimate enough to suppose , along this hypothesis , that this substitution plot was the very matter on which the two men quarrelled . 
V As a preliminary to his marriage with Frances Howard , Rochester was created Earl of Somerset , and had the barony of Brancepeth bestowed on him by the King . 
Overbury was three months in his grave when the marriage was celebrated in the midst of the most extravagant show and entertainment . 
The new Earl's power in the kingdom was never so high as at this time . 
It was , indeed , at its zenith . 
Decline was soon to set in . 
It will not serve here to follow the whole process of decay in the King's favour that Somerset was now to experience . 
There was poetic justice in his downfall . 
With hands all about him itching to bring him to the ground , he had not the brain for the giddy heights . 
If behind him there had been the man whose guidance had made him sure footed in the climb he might have survived , flourishing . 
But the man he had consigned to death had been more than half of him , had been , indeed , his substance . 
Alone , with the power Overbury's talents had brought him , Somerset was bound to fail . 
The irony of it is that his downfall was contrived by a creature of his own raising . 
Somerset had appointed Sir Ralph Winwood to the office of First Secretary of State . 
In that office word came to Winwood from Brussels that new light had been thrown on the mysterious death of Sir Thomas Overbury . 
An English lad , one Reeves , an apothecary's assistant , thinking himself dying , had confessed at Flushing that Overbury had been poisoned by an injection of corrosive sublimate . 
Reeves himself had given the injection on the orders of his master , Loubel , the apothecary who had attended Overbury on the day before his death . 
Winwood sought out Loubel , and from him went to Sir Gervase Elwes . 
The story he was able to make from what he had from the two men he took to the King . 
From this beginning rose up the Great Oyer of Poisoning . 
The matter was put into the hands of the Lord Chief Justice , Sir Edward Coke . 
The lad Reeves , whose confession had started the matter , was either dead or dying abroad , and was so out of Coke's reach . 
But the man who had helped the lad to administer the poisoned clyster , the under keeper Weston , was at hand . 
Weston was arrested , and examined by Coke . 
The statement Coke's bullying drew from the man made mention of one Franklin , another apothecary , as having supplied a phial which Sir Gervase Elwes had taken and thrown away . 
Weston had also received another phial by Franklin's son from Lady Essex . 
This also Sir Gervase had taken and destroyed . 
Then there had been tarts and jellies supplied by Mrs Turner . 
He maintained that he had been told to recommend Weston by Lady Essex and the Earl of Northampton . 
The next person to be examined by Coke was the apothecary Loubel , he who had attended Overbury on the day before his death . 
Though in his confession the lad Reeves said that he had been given money and sent abroad by Loubel , this was a matter that Coke did not probe . 
Loubel told Coke that he had given Overbury nothing but the physic prescribed by Sir Theodore Mayerne , the King's physician , and that in his opinion Overbury had died of consumption . 
With this evidence Coke was very strangely content or , at least , content as far as Loubel was concerned , for this witness was not summoned again . 
Other persons were examined by Coke , notably Overbury's servant Davies and his secretary Payton . 
Their statements served to throw some suspicion on the Earl of Somerset . 
But if all the detail of these examinations were gone into we should never be done . 
Our concern is with the two women involved , Anne Turner and the Countess of Somerset , as we must now call her . 
They indicate how it was smothered by the way in which Coke rough handled justice throughout the whole series of trials . 
On October th , at the Guildhall , began the Great Oyer of Poisoning , as Coke described it , with the trial of Richard Weston . 
Thus at the very outset the dishonesty of the proceedings is apparent . 
Both on his own evidence and that of Sir Gervase Elwes , besides the apothecary's boy in Flushing , Sir Thomas Overbury had died following upon an injection prepared by Loubel . 
Therefore Loubel was the principal , and only after Loubel's conviction could the field have been extended to include Weston and the others . 
Nor was the evidence of the coroner put in , so that there was no real preliminary formal proof that Overbury had been poisoned at all . 
Here Mr Sabatini is concerned to develop one of the underlying arguments of his story namely , that it was King James himself who had ultimately engineered the death of Sir Thomas Overbury . 
It is an argument which I would not attempt to refute . 
I do not think that Mr Sabatini's acumen has failed him in the least . 
But the point for me in the paragraphs is the indication they give of how much Coke did to suppress all evidence that did not suit his purpose . 
Weston's trial is curious in that at first he refused to plead . 
It is the first instance I have met with in history of a prisoner standing mute of malice . 
'' One may imagine with what grim satisfaction Coke ladled this out . 
It had its effect on Weston . 
He confessed that Mrs Turner had promised to give him a reward if he would poison Sir Thomas Overbury . 
In May she had sent him a phial of rosalgar , '' and he had received from her tarts poisoned with mercury sublimate . 
He was charged with having , at Mrs Turner's instance , joined with an apothecary's boy in administering an injection of corrosive sublimate to Sir Thomas Overbury , from which the latter died . 
Coke's conduct of the case obscures just how much Weston admitted , but , since it convinced the jury of Weston's guilt , the conviction served finely for accusation against Mrs Turner . 
Two days after conviction Weston was executed at Tyburn . 
The trial of Anne Turner began in the first week of November . 
We have , however , to consider this point in extenuation for her . 
It is almost certain that in moving to bring about the death of Overbury she had sanction , if only tacit , from the Earl of Northampton . 
By the time that the Great Oyer began Northampton was dead . 
Two years had elapsed from the death of Overbury . 
It would be quite clear to Anne that , in the view of the powerful Howard faction , the elimination of Overbury was politically desirable . 
It should be remembered , too , that she lived in a period when assassination , secret or by subverted process of justice , was a commonplace political weapon . 
Public executions by methods cruel and even obscene taught the people to hold human life at small value , and hardened them to cruelties that made poisoning seem a mercy . 
The indictment against her was that she had comforted , aided , and abetted Weston that is to say , she was made an accessory . 
But Weston was already hanged , and so could not be questioned . 
His various statements were used against her unchallenged , or , at least , when challenging them was useless . 
Her relations with Dr Forman , now safely dead , were made much of . 
She and the Countess of Essex had visited the charlatan and had addressed him as Father . 
'' Letters from the Countess to Turner were read . 
They revealed the use on Lord Essex of those powders her ladyship had been given by Forman . 
The letters had been found by Forman's wife in a packet among Forman's possessions after his death . 
These , with others and with several curious objects exhibited in court , had been demanded by Mrs Turner after Forman's demise . 
Mrs Turner had kept them , and they were found in her house . 
As indicating the type of magic practised by Forman these objects are of interest . 
There was a black scarf ornamented with white crosses , papers with cabalistic signs , and sundry other exhibits which appear to have created superstitious fear in the crowd about the court . 
It is amusing to note that while those exhibits were being examined one of the scaffolds erected for seating gave way or cracked ominously , giving the crowd a thorough scare . 
It was thought that the devil himself , raised by the power of those uncanny objects , had got into the Guildhall . 
Consternation reigned for quite a quarter of an hour . 
There was also exhibited Forman's famous book of signatures , in which Coke is supposed to have encountered his own wife's name on the first page . 
Franklin , apothecary , druggist , necromancer , wizard , and born liar , had confessed to supplying the poisons intended for use upon Overbury . 
He declared that Mrs Turner had come to him from the Countess and asked him to get the strongest poisons procurable . 
He accordingly bought seven viz . 
, aqua fortis , white arsenic , mercury , powder of diamonds , lapis costitus , great spiders , cantharides . 
Enough poison passed from hand to hand to have slain an army . 
Symon appears to have been a witty fellow . 
He was , for his pleasant answer , '' dismissed by Coke . 
Coke , with his bullying methods and his way of acting both as judge and chief prosecutor , lacks little as prototype for the later Judge Jeffreys . 
Even before the jury retired he was at pains to inform Mrs Turner that she had the seven deadly sins viz . 
, a whore , a bawd , a sorcerer , a witch , a papist , a felon , and a murderer , the daughter of the devil Forman . 
'' She declared that she had not known of poison in the things that were sent to Sir Thomas Overbury . 
The jury's retirement was not long drawn . 
Her speeches before execution were pious , like most speeches of the sort , and moved the spectators to great pity and grief for her . 
'' This last , of course , was less than the truth . 
Anne was not so indigent that she needed to take to poisoning as a means of supporting her family . 
She also said that when her hand was once in this business she knew the revealing of it would be her overthrow . 
It is forgotten that with Anne the recipe for the yellow starch probably was lost . 
Moreover , the elaborate ruff was then being put out of fashion by the introduction of the much more comfortable lace collar . 
in Truth Brought to Light . 
Pretty much , I should think , as the tall choker' became detested within the time of many of us . 
After Mrs Turner Sir Gervase Elwes was brought to trial as an accessory . 
The only evidence against him was that of the liar Franklin , who asserted that Sir Gervase had been in league with the Countess . 
'' Sabatini , The Minion . 
This , of course , was a glaring piece of injustice , but Coke no doubt had his instructions . 
Just as much of the statements and confessions of the prisoners in the four preliminary trials was used by Coke as suited his purpose . 
Yet great play was made by Coke of this visit against Somerset . 
Wrote Somerset to Craig , I pray you let him have your best help , and as much of your company as he shall require . 
'' It was never proved that it was Anne Turner and Lady Essex who corrupted the lad Reeves , who with Weston administered the poisoned clyster that murdered Overbury . 
Yet it was demonstrably the injection that killed Overbury if he was killed by poison at all . 
, so he be done to death , the indictment is good if he be but indicted for any of those ways . 
But the good lawyers of those times were not of that opinion , but did believe that Mrs Turner was directly murthered by my lord Coke's law as Overbury was without any law . 
At all events , even on the bowdlerized evidence that exists , it is plain that Anne Turner should have been charged only with attempted murder . 
Of that she was manifestly guilty and , according to the justice of the time , thoroughly deserved to be hanged . 
The indictment against her was faulty , and the case against her as full of holes as a colander . 
Her trial was cooked' in more senses than one . 
It was some seven months after the execution of Anne Turner that the Countess of Essex was brought to trial . 
In December , while virtually a prisoner under the charge of Sir William Smith at Lord Aubigny's house in Blackfriars , she had given birth to a daughter . 
In March she had been conveyed to the Tower , her baby being handed over to the care of her mother , the Countess of Suffolk . 
Since the autumn of the previous year she had not been permitted any communication with her husband , nor he with her . 
He was already lodged in the Tower when she arrived there . 
On a day towards the end of May she was conveyed by water from the Tower to Westminster Hall . 
The hall was packed to suffocation , seats being paid for at prices which would turn a modern promoter of a world's heavyweight boxing championship fight green with envy . 
Her judges were twenty two peers of the realm , with the Lord High Steward , the Lord Chief Justice , and seven judges at law . 
Preceded by the headsman carrying his axe with its edge turned away from her , she was conducted to the bar by the Lieutenant of the Tower . 
'' Sir Francis Bacon , the Attorney General himself to appear in the same place not long after to answer charges of bribery and corruption now addressed the judges . 
His eloquent address was a commendation of the Countess's confession , and it hinted at royal clemency . 
Then the Lord High Steward , expressing belief that the King would be moved to mercy , delivered judgment . 
The attendant women hastened to the side of the swaying woman . 
VI It is perfectly clear that the Countess of Somerset was led to confess on the promise of the King's mercy . 
It is equally clear that she did not know what she was confessing to . 
Whatever might have been her conspiracy with Anne Turner it is a practical certainty that it did not result in the death of Thomas Overbury . 
There is no record of her being allowed any legal advice in the seven months that had elapsed since she had first been made a virtual prisoner . 
She had been permitted no communication with her husband . 
For all she knew , Overbury might indeed have died from the poison which she had caused to be sent to the Tower in such quantity and variety . 
She could not have known that her plea of guilty would weaken Somerset's defence . 
The woman who could go to such lengths in order to win her husband was unlikely to have done anything that might put him in jeopardy . 
One can well imagine with what fierceness she would have fought her case had she thought that by doing so she could have helped the man she loved . 
But Frances Howard , no less than her accomplice Anne Turner , was the victim of a gross subversion of justice . 
Her confession , however , shackled Somerset at his trial . 
It put her at the King's mercy . 
But , whatever may be said of Somerset , the prospect of the cloaks would not have stopped him from attempting those questions . 
He had sent word to King James that he was neither Gowrie nor Balmerino , '' those two earlier victims of James's treachery . 
The thing that muffled him was the threat to withdraw the promised mercy to his Countess . 
And so he kept silent , to be condemned to death as his wife had been , and to join her in the Tower . 
Better for them , one would think , if they had died on Tower Green . 
Frances Howard died in , her husband twenty three years later . 
The longer lease of life could have been no blessing to the fallen favourite . 
There is a portrait of Frances Howard in the National Portrait Gallery by an unknown artist . 
It is an odd little face which appears above the elaborate filigree of the stiff lace ruff and under the carefully dressed bush of dark brown hair . 
It is , however , a narrow little face , and there is a tight liddedness about the eyes which in an older woman might indicate the bigot . 
Bigot she proved herself to be , if it be bigotry in a woman to love a man with an intensity that will not stop at murder in order to win him . 
That is the one thing that may be said for Frances Howard . 
She did love Robert Carr . 
She loved him to his ruin . 
It was just after one o'clock of the afternoon . 
The giants of St Dunstan's behind her had only a minute before rapped out the hour with their clubs . 
Mrs Love's business was at once charitable and social . 
Mrs Duncomb was the widow of a law stationer of the City . 
She had been a widow for a good number of years . 
The deceased law stationer , if he had not left her rich , at least had left her in fairly comfortable circumstances . 
Mrs Duncomb was looked after by a couple of servants . 
One of them , Betty Harrison , had been the old lady's companion for a lifetime . 
Mrs Duncomb , described as old , '' was only sixty . 
Her weakness and bodily condition seem to have made her appear much older . 
Betty , then , also described as old , '' may have been of an age with her mistress , or even older . 
She was , at all events , not by much less frail . 
The other servant was a comparatively new addition to the establishment , a fresh little girl of about seventeen , Ann Price by name . 
gives Mrs Duncomb's age as eighty and that of the maid Betty as sixty . 
Mrs Love climbed the three flights of stairs to the top landing . 
It surprised her , or disturbed her , but little that she found no signs of life on the various floors , because it was , as we have seen , a Sunday . 
She knocked , indeed , at intervals over a period of some fifteen minutes , still obtaining no response . 
The disturbed sense of something being wrong became stronger and stronger in the mind of Mrs Love . 
On the night of the previous Friday she had been calling upon Mrs Duncomb , and she had found the old lady very weak , very nervous , and very low in spirits . 
It had not been a very cheerful visit all round , because the old maidservant , Betty Harrison , had also been far from well . 
There had been a good deal of talk between the old women of dying , a subject to which their minds had been very prone to revert . 
Besides Mrs Love there were two other visitors , but they too failed to cheer the old couple up . 
But Mrs Betty especially had been hard to console . 
My mistress , '' she had said to cheerful Mrs Oliphant , will talk of dying . 
And she would have me die with her . 
'' As she stood in considerable perturbation of mind on the cheerless third floor landing that Sunday afternoon Mrs Love found small matter for comfort in her memory of the Friday evening . 
She remembered that old Mrs Duncomb had spoken complainingly of the lonesomeness which had come upon her floor by the vacation of the chambers opposite her on the landing . 
The tenant had gone a day or two before , leaving the rooms empty of furniture , and the key with a Mr Twysden . 
She remembered how she had left Mrs Duncomb on the Friday night . 
Mrs Love , before following the other two women downstairs , had helped the ailing Betty to get Mrs Duncomb settled for the night . 
It came to the mind of Mrs Love that the illness manifesting itself in Betty on the Friday night had worsened . 
Nanny , she imagined , must have gone abroad on some errand . 
The old servant , she thought , was too ill to come to the door , and her voice would be too weak to convey an answer to the knocking . 
Mrs Love , not without a shudder for the chill feeling of that top landing , betook herself downstairs again to make what inquiry she might . 
It happened that she met one of her fellow visitors of the Friday night , Mrs Oliphant . 
Mrs Oliphant was sympathetic , but could not give any information . 
She had seen no member of the old lady's establishment that day . 
She could only advise Mrs Love to go upstairs again and knock louder . 
This Mrs Love did , but again got no reply . 
With this in her mind Mrs Love descended the stairs once more , and went to look for another friend of Mrs Duncomb's , a Mrs Rhymer . 
Mrs Rhymer was a friend of the old lady's of some thirty years' standing . 
She was , indeed , named as executrix in Mrs Duncomb's will . 
Mrs Love finding her and explaining the situation as she saw it , Mrs Rhymer at once returned with Mrs Love to Tanfield Court . 
The two women ascended the stairs , and tried pushing the old lady's door . 
It refused to yield to their efforts . 
Then Mrs Love went to the staircase window that overlooked the court , and gazed around to see if there was anyone about who might help . 
Prithee , Sarah , '' begged Mrs Love , go and fetch a smith to open Mrs Duncomb's door . 
'' I will go at all speed , '' Sarah assured her , with ready willingness , and off she sped . 
Mrs Love and Mrs Rhymer waited some time . 
Sarah came back with Mrs Oliphant in tow , but had been unable to secure the services of a locksmith . 
This was probably due to the fact that it was a Sunday . 
By now both Mrs Love and Mrs Rhymer had become deeply apprehensive , and the former appealed to Mrs Oliphant . 
I do believe they are all dead , and the smith is not come ! '' cried Mrs Love . 
What shall we do , Mrs Oliphant ? '' Mrs Oliphant , much younger than the others , seems to have been a woman of resource . 
She had from Mr Twysden , she said , the key of the vacant chambers opposite to Mrs Duncomb's . 
Now let me see , '' she continued , if I cannot get out of the back chamber window into the gutter , and so into Mrs Duncomb's apartment . 
'' The other women urged her to try . 
Mrs Oliphant set off , her heels echoing in the empty rooms . 
Presently the waiting women heard a pane snap , and they guessed that Mrs Oliphant had broken through Mrs Duncomb's casement to get at the handle . 
They heard , through the door , the noise of furniture being moved as she got through the window . 
Then came a shriek , the scuffle of feet . 
The outer door of Mrs Duncomb's chambers was flung open . 
Mrs Oliphant , ashen faced , appeared on the landing . 
God ! Oh , gracious God ! '' she cried . 
They're all murdered ! One account says it was Sarah Malcolm who entered via the gutter and window . 
Borrow , however , in his Celebrated Trials , quotes Mrs Oliphant's evidence in court on this point . 
II All four women pressed into the chambers . 
All three of the women occupying them had been murdered . 
In the passage or lobby little Nanny Price lay in her bed in a welter of blood , her throat savagely cut . 
Her hair was loose and over her eyes , her clenched hands all bloodied about her throat . 
It was apparent that she had struggled desperately for life . 
Next door , in the dining room , old Betty Harrison lay across the press bed in which she usually slept . 
Being in the habit of keeping her gown on for warmth , as it was said , she was partially dressed . 
In her bedroom , also across her bed , lay the dead body of old Mrs Duncomb . 
There had been here also an attempt to strangle , an unnecessary attempt it appeared , for the crease about the neck was very faint . 
Frail as the old lady had been , the mere weight of the murderer's body , it was conjectured , had been enough to kill her . 
These pathological details were established on the arrival later of Mr Bigg , the surgeon , fetched from the Rainbow Coffee house near by by Fairlow , one of the Temple porters . 
But the four women could see enough for themselves , without the help of Mr Bigg , to understand how death had been dealt in all three cases . 
They could see quite clearly also for what motive the crime had been committed . 
A black strong box , with papers scattered about it , lay beside Mrs Duncomb's bed , its lid forced open . 
It was in this box that the old lady had been accustomed to keep her money . 
If any witness had been needed to say what the black box had contained there was Mrs Rhymer , executrix under the old lady's will . 
And if Mrs. Rhymer had been at any need to refresh her memory regarding the contents opportunity had been given her no farther back than the afternoon of the previous Thursday . 
On that day she had called upon Mrs Duncomb to take tea and to talk affairs . 
Three or four years before , with her rapidly increasing frailness , the old lady's memory had begun to fail . 
Mrs Rhymer acted for her as a sort of unofficial curator bonis , receiving her money and depositing it in the black box , of which she kept the key . 
On the Thursday , old Betty and young Nanny being sent from the room , the old lady had told Mrs Rhymer that she needed some money a guinea . 
It had belonged to Mrs Duncomb's husband . 
In the tankard was a hundred pounds . 
Beside the tankard lay a bag containing guinea pieces to the number of twenty or so . 
This was the bag that Mrs Rhymer had carried over to the old lady's chair by the fire , in order to take from it the needed guinea . 
There were some half dozen packets of money in the box , each sealed with black wax and set aside for particular purposes after Mrs Duncomb's death . 
Other sums , greater in quantity than those contained in the packets , were earmarked in the same way . 
The ritual of telling over the box contents , if something ghostly , had had its usual effect of comforting the old lady's mind . 
The ritual over , the black box was closed and locked , and on her departure Mrs Rhymer had taken away the key as usual . 
The motive for the crime , as said , was plain . 
The black box had been forced , and there was no sign of tankard , packets , green purse , or bag of guineas . 
The horror and distress of the old lady's friends that Sunday afternoon may better be imagined than described . 
Loudest of the four , we are told , was Sarah Malcolm . 
could have got into the chambers . 
She drew attention to the wideness of the kitchen chimney and to the weakness of the lock in the door to the vacant rooms on the other side of the landing . 
He showed that a person outside the shut door could quite easily pull the bolt to on the inside . 
It did not disperse until the officers had made their investigations and the bodies of the three victims had been removed . 
III Two further actors now come upon the scene . 
And for the proper grasping of events we must go back an hour or two in time to notice their activities . 
They are a Mr Gehagan , a young Irish barrister , and a friend of his named Kerrel . 
These young men occupy chambers on opposite sides of the same landing , the third floor , over the Alienation Office in Tanfield Court . 
Or Kerrol the name varies in different accounts of the crime . 
Mr Gehagan was one of Sarah Malcolm's employers . 
That Sunday morning at nine she had appeared in his rooms to do them up and to light the fire . 
While Gehagan was talking to Sarah he was joined by his friend Kerrel , who offered to stand him some tea . 
Sarah was given a shilling and sent out to buy tea . 
She returned and made the brew , then remained about the chambers until the horn blew , as was then the Temple custom , for commons . 
The two young men departed . 
After commons they walked for a while in the Temple Gardens , then returned to Tanfield Court . 
By this time the crowd attracted by the murder was blocking up the court , and Gehagan asked what was the matter . 
He was told of the murder , and he remarked to Kerrel that the old lady had been their charwoman's acquaintance . 
The two friends then made their way to a coffee house in Covent Garden . 
They were not a little astonished on reaching their common landing to find Kerrel's door open , a fire burning in the grate of his room , and a candle on the table . 
By the fire , with a dark riding hood about her head , was Sarah Malcolm . 
To Kerrel's natural question of what she was doing there at such an unearthly hour she muttered something about having things to collect . 
Kerrel then , reminding her that Mrs Duncomb had been her acquaintance , asked her if anyone had been taken up'' for the murder . 
That Mr Knight , '' Sarah replied , who has chambers under her , has been absent two or three days . 
Look out your things , therefore , and begone ! '' Kerrel's suspicion thickened , and he asked his friend to run downstairs and call up the watch . 
Gehagan ran down , but found difficulty in opening the door below , and had to return . 
Kerrel himself went down then , and came back with two watchmen . 
They found Sarah in the bedroom at a chest of drawers , in which she was turning over some linen that she claimed to be hers . 
The now completely suspicious Kerrel went to his closet , and noticed that two or three waistcoats were missing from a portmanteau . 
He asked Sarah where they were upon which Sarah , with an eye to the watchmen and to Gehagan , begged to be allowed to speak with him alone . 
Kerrel refused , saying he could have no business with her that was secret . 
Sarah then confessed that she had pawned the missing waistcoats for two guineas , and begged him not to be angry . 
Kerrel asked her why she had not asked him for money . 
He could readily forgive her for pawning the waistcoats , but , having heard her talk of Mrs Lydia Duncomb , he was afraid she was concerned with the murder . 
A pair of earrings were found in the drawers , and these Sarah claimed , putting them in her corsage . 
An odd looking bundle in the closet then attracted Kerrel's attention , and he kicked it , and asked Sarah what it was . 
She said it was merely dirty linen wrapped up in an old gown . 
She did not wish it exposed . 
Kerrel made further search , and found that other things were missing . 
He told the watch to take the woman and hold her strictly . 
Kerrel , now thoroughly roused , continued his search , and he found underneath his bed another bundle . 
He also came upon some bloodstained linen in another place , and in a close stool a silver tankard , upon the handle of which was a lot of dried blood . 
Kerrel's excitement passed to Gehagan , and the two of them went at speed downstairs yelling for the watch . 
After a little the two watchmen reappeared , but without Sarah . 
They had let her go , they said , because they had found nothing on her , and , besides , she had not been charged before a constable . 
One here comes upon a recital by the watchmen which reveals the extraordinary slackness in dealing with suspect persons that characterized the guardians of the peace in London in those times . 
They had let the woman go , but she had come back . 
Her home was in Shoreditch , she said , and rather than walk all that way on a cold and boisterous night she had wanted to sit up in the watch house . 
Sarah had given her word , and had gone away . 
On hearing this story Kerrel became very angry , threatening the two watchmen , Hughes and Mastreter , with Newgate if they did not pick her up again immediately . 
Upon this the watchmen scurried off as quickly as their age and the cumbrous nature of their clothing would let them . 
They found Sarah in the company of two other watchmen at the gate of the Temple . 
Hughes , as a means of persuading her to go with them more easily , told her that Kerrel wanted to speak with her , and that he was not angry any longer . 
Presently , in Tanfield Court , they came on the two young men carrying the tankard and the bloodied linen . 
This time it was Gehagan who did the talking . 
He accused Sarah furiously , showing her the tankard . 
Sarah attempted to wipe the blood off the tankard handle with her apron . 
Sarah said the tankard was her own . 
Her mother had given it her , and she had had it for five years . 
It was to get the tankard out of pawn that she had taken Kerrel's waistcoats , needing thirty shillings . 
The blood on the handle was due to her having pricked a finger . 
With this began the series of lies Sarah Malcolm put up in her defence . 
She was hauled into the watchman's box and more thoroughly searched . 
A green silk purse containing twenty one guineas was found in the bosom of her dress . 
Both bundles of linen were bloodstained . 
There was some doubt as to the identity of the green purse . 
There was , however , no doubt at all about the tankard . 
It had the initials C. D. '' engraved upon it , and was at once identified as Mrs Duncomb's . 
The linen which Sarah had been handling in Mr Kerrel's drawer was said to be darned in a way recognizable as Mrs Duncomb's . 
It had lain beside the tankard and the money in the black box . 
IV There was , it will be seen , but very little doubt of Sarah Malcolm's guilt . 
According to the reports of her trial , however , she fought fiercely for her life , questioning the witnesses closely . 
One of the Newgate turnkeys told how some of the missing money was discovered . 
Being brought from the Compter to Newgate , Sarah happened to see a room in which debtors were confined . 
She asked the turnkey , Roger Johnson , if she could be kept there . 
Johnson replied that it would cost her a guinea , but that from her appearance it did not look to him as if she could afford so much . 
Sarah seems to have bragged then , saying that if the charge was twice or thrice as much she could send for a friend who would pay it . 
Her attitude probably made the turnkey suspicious . 
Child , '' he said , there is reason to suspect that you are guilty of this murder , and therefore I have orders to search you . 
'' He had , he admitted , no such orders . 
He felt under her arms whereupon she started and threw back her head . 
Johnson clapped his hand on her head and felt something hard . 
He pulled off her cap , and found a bag of money in her hair . 
I asked her , '' Johnson said in the witness box , how she came by it , and she said it was some of Mrs Duncomb's money . 
But , Mr Johnson , says she , I'll make you a present of it if you will keep it to yourself , and let nobody know anything of the matter . 
The other things against me are nothing but circumstances , and I shall come well enough off . 
And therefore I only desire you to let me have threepence or sixpence a day till the sessions be over then I shall be at liberty to shift for myself . 
He thought there was also a twenty five shilling piece and some others , twenty three shilling pieces . 
The court asked how she said she had come by the money . 
Johnson's answer was that she had said she took the money and the bag from Mrs Duncomb , and that she had begged him to keep it secret . 
My dear , '' said this virtuous gaoler , I would not secrete the money for the world . 
After I had taken the money away she put a piece of mattress in her hair , that it might appear of the same bulk as before . 
Then I locked her up and sent to Mr Alstone , and told him the story . 
And , says I , do you stand in a dark place to be witness of what she says , and I'll go and examine her again . 
Let me keep it for you and let Buck know nothing about it . 
So I gave Johnson five broad pieces and twenty two guineas , not gratis , but only to keep for me , for I expected it to be returned when sessions was over . 
As to the money , I never said I took it from Mrs Duncomb but he asked me what they had to rap against me . 
I told him only a tankard . 
He asked me if it was Mrs Duncomb's , and I said yes . 
'' Peter Buck , a prisoner . 
The Court Johnson , were those her words This is the money and bag that I took' ? '' Johnson Yes , and she desired me to make away with the bag . 
'' Johnson's evidence was confirmed in part by Alstone , another officer of the prison . 
He said he told Johnson to get the bag from the prisoner , as it might have something about it whereby it could be identified . 
Johnson called the girl , while Alstone watched from a dark corner . 
He saw Sarah give Johnson the bag , and heard her ask him to burn it . 
part of the money found on her was Mrs Duncomb's . 
There is no need here to enlarge upon the oddly slack and casual conditions of the prison life of the time as revealed in this evidence . 
It will be no news to anyone who has studied contemporary criminal history . 
Sarah , though still in her earliest twenties , was known already if not in the Temple to have a bad reputation . 
It is said that her closest friends were thieves of the worst sort . 
She was the daughter of an Englishman , at one time a public official in a small way in Dublin . 
Her father had come to London with his wife and daughter , but on the death of the mother had gone back to Ireland . 
He had left his daughter behind him , servant in an ale house called the Black Horse . 
Born , Durham , according to The Newgate Calendar . 
Sarah was a fairly well educated girl . 
At the ale house , however , she formed an acquaintance with a woman named Mary Tracey , a dissolute character , and with two thieves called Alexander . 
Of these three disreputable people we shall be hearing presently , for Sarah tried to implicate them in this crime which she certainly committed alone . 
It is said that the Newgate officers recognized Sarah on her arrival . 
She had often been to the prison to visit an Irish thief , convicted for stealing the pack of a Scots pedlar . 
I lived with Mrs Lydia Duncomb about three months before she was murdered . 
The robbery was contrived by Mary Tracey , who is now in confinement , and myself , my own vicious inclinations agreeing with hers . 
We likewise proposed to rob Mr Oakes in Thames Street . 
She came to me at my master's , Mr Kerrel's chambers , on the Sunday before the murder was committed he not being then at home , we talked about robbing Mrs Duncomb . 
I told her I could not pretend to do it by myself , for I should be found out . 
No , says she , there are the two Alexanders will help us . 
Next day I had seventeen pounds sent me out of the country , which I left in Mr Kerrel's drawers . 
I met them all in Cheapside the following Friday , and we agreed on the next night , and so parted . 
Next day , being Saturday , I went between seven and eight in the evening to see Mrs Duncomb's maid , Elizabeth Harrison , who was very bad . 
I stayed a little while with her , and went down , and Mary Tracey and the two Alexanders came to me about ten o'clock , according to appointment . 
'' On this statement the whole implication of Tracey and the Alexanders by Sarah stands or falls . 
It falls for the reason that the Temple porter had seen no stranger pass the gate that night , nobody but Templars going to their chambers . 
The one fact riddles the rest of Sarah's statement in defence , but , as it is somewhat of a masterpiece in lying invention , I shall continue to quote it . 
Mary Tracey would have gone about the robbery just then , but I said it was too soon . 
Between ten and eleven she said , We can do it now . 
I told her I would go and see , and so went upstairs , and they followed me . 
I met the young maid on the stairs with a blue mug she was going for some milk to make a sack posset . 
She asked me who were those that came after me . 
I told her they were people going to Mr Knight's below . 
As soon as she was gone I said to Mary Tracey , Now do you and Tom Alexander go down . 
I know the door is ajar , because the old maid is ill , and can't get up to let the young maid in when she comes back . 
Upon that , James Alexander , by my order , went in and hid himself under the bed and as I was going down myself I met the young maid coming up again . 
She asked me if I spoke to Mrs Betty . 
'' There is a possibility that this part of her confession , the tale of having met the young maid , Nanny , may be true . 
And here may the truth of the murder be hidden away . 
We know that the lock of the vacant chambers opposite Mrs Duncomb's would have yielded to small manipulation . 
So that she may have waited her hour in the empty rooms , and have got into Mrs Duncomb's by the same method used by Mrs Oliphant after the murder . 
She may even have slipped back the spring catch of the outer door . 
One account of the murder suggests that she may have asked Ann Price , on one pretext or other , to let her share her bed . 
This confession , however , varies in several particulars with that contained in A Paper delivered by Sarah Malcolm on the Night before her Execution to the Rev . 
Mr Piddington , and published by Him . 
The truth , as I have said , lies hidden in this extraordinarily mendacious confection . 
Liars of Sarah's quality are apt to base their fabrications on a structure , however slight , of truth . 
I continue with the confession , then , for what the reader may get out of it . 
I passed her Nanny Price and went down , and spoke with Tracey and Alexander , and then went to my master's chambers , and stirred up the fire . 
I stayed about a quarter of an hour , and when I came back I saw Tracey and Tom Alexander sitting on Mrs Duncomb's stairs , and I sat down with them . 
At twelve o'clock we heard some people walking , and by and by Mr Knight came home , went to his room , and shut the door . 
It was a very stormy night there was hardly anybody stirring abroad , and the watchmen kept up close , except just when they cried the hour . 
Then Mary Tracey and Thomas Alexander went in , but I stayed upon the stair to watch . 
I had told them where Mrs Duncomb's box stood . 
And so one of them did . 
I asked them how much they had got . 
They told me that they had been forced to gag the people . 
They advised me to be cunning and plant the money and goods underground , and not to be seen to be flush . 
Then we appointed to meet at Greenwich , but we did not go . 
In Mr Piddington's paper the supposed appointment is for or o'clock at the Pewter Platter , Holbourn Bridge . 
'' I was taken in the manner the witnesses have sworn , and carried to the watch house , from whence I was sent to the Compter , and so to Newgate . 
I am sure of death , and therefore have no occasion to speak anything but the truth . 
When I was in the Compter I happened to see a young man whom I knew , with a fetter on . 
I told him I was sorry to see him there , and I gave him a shilling , and called for half a quartern of rum to make him drink . 
I afterwards went into my room , and heard a voice call me , and perceived something poking behind the curtain . 
He said he would do what he could for me , and so went away and some time after he called to me again , and said , Here is a friend . 
I looked through , and saw Will Gibbs come in . 
Says he , Who is there to swear against you ? I told him my two masters would be the chief witnesses . 
And what can they charge you with ? says he . 
I told him the tankard was the only thing , for there was nothing else that I thought could hurt me . 
Never fear , then , says he we'll do well enough . 
I gave them ten guineas , and they promised to wait for me at the Bull Head in Broad Street . 
But when I called for them , when I was going before Sir Richard Brocas , they were not there . 
When I came to Newgate I had but eighteenpence in silver , besides the money in my hair , and I gave eighteenpence for my garnish . 
I was ordered to a high place in the gaol . 
Buck , as I said before , having seen my hair loose , told Johnson of it , and Johnson asked me if I had got any cole planted there . 
He told me I must be cunning , and not to be seen to be flush of money . 
And so I gave it to him . 
Mr Alstone then brought me to the condemned hold and examined me . 
I denied all till I found he had heard of the money , and then I knew my life was gone . 
And therefore I confessed all that I knew . 
I gave him the same account of the robbers as I have given you . 
I told him I heard my masters were to be shot , and I desired him to send them word . 
I described Tracey and the two Alexanders , and when they were first taken they denied that they knew Mr Oakes , whom they and I had agreed to rob . 
All that I have now declared is fact , and I have no occasion to murder three persons on a false accusation for I know I am a condemned woman . 
I know I must suffer an ignominious death which my crimes deserve , and I shall suffer willingly . 
'' Sarah Malcolm was sentenced to death in due form . 
It was not to be doubted on all the evidence that she alone committed that cruel triple murder , and that she alone stole the money which was found hidden in her hair . 
The bulk of the stolen clothing was found in her possession , bloodstained . 
It disappeared later , and it is to be surmised that Sarah Malcolm managed to get it out of the room unseen . 
But to the last moment possible Sarah tried to get her three friends involved with her . 
Say , which is not at all unlikely , that Tracey and the Alexanders may have first suggested the robbery to her , and her vindictive maneouvring may be understood . 
On more than one hand the crime is ascribed to Sarah's desire to secure one of the Alexanders in marriage . 
It is said that when she heard that Tracey and the Alexanders had been taken she was highly pleased . 
She smiled , and said that she could now die happy , since the real murderers had been seized . 
Even when the three were brought face to face with her for identification she did not lack brazenness . 
Ay , '' she said , these are the persons who committed the murder . 
'' You know this to be true , '' she said to Tracey . 
See , Mary , what you have brought me to . 
It is through you and the two Alexanders that I am brought to this shame , and must die for it . 
You all promised me you would do no murder , but , to my great surprise , I found the contrary . 
'' She was , you will perceive , a determined liar . 
Condemned , she behaved with no fortitude . 
I am a dead woman ! '' she cried , when brought back to Newgate . 
She wept and prayed , lied still more , pretended illness , and had fits of hysteria . 
Young Mr Hogarth , the painter , was one of those who found occasion to visit Newgate to view the notorious murderess . 
He even painted her portrait . 
Seated to the left , she leans her folded hands on a table on which a rosary and a crucifix lie . 
Behind her is a dark grey wall , with a heavy grating over a dark door to the right . 
There are varied mezzotints of this picture by Hogarth himself still extant , and there is a pen and wash drawing of Sarah by Samuel Wale in the British Museum . 
The stories regarding the last days in life of Sarah Malcolm would occupy more pages than this book can afford to spend on them . 
To the last she hoped for a reprieve . 
This too was one of her lies . 
She had heard the news hours before . 
A turnkey , pointing out the lie to her , urged her to confess for the easing of her mind . 
This performance was provided for by bequest from one Robert Dove , or Dow , a merchant tailor . 
, the bellman recited these verses All you that in the condemned hold do lie , Prepare you , for to morrow you shall die . 
Watch all and pray the hour is drawing near That you before th' Almighty must appear . 
The bequest of Dove appears to have provided for a further pious admonition to the condemned while on the way to execution . 
It was delivered by the sexton of St Sepulchre's from the steps of that church , a halt being made by the procession for the purpose . 
This admonition , however , was in fair prose . 
A fellow prisoner or a keeper bade Sarah Malcolm heed what the bellman said , urging her to take it to heart . 
Sarah said she did , and threw the bellman down a shilling with which to buy himself a pint of wine . 
Sarah , as we have seen , was denied the honour of procession to Tyburn . 
Her sentence was that she was to be hanged in Fleet Street , opposite the Mitre Court , on the th of March , . 
And hanged she was accordingly . 
She fainted in the tumbril , and took some time to recover . 
Her last words were exemplary in their piety , but in the face of her vindictive lying , unretracted to the last , it were hardly exemplary to repeat them . 
She was buried in the churchyard of St Sepulchre's . 
V ALMOST A LADY Thanks to my friend Billy Bennett , of music hall fame , for his hint for the chapter title . 
'' Sophie Dawes , Queen of Chantilly . 
Among the women selected as subjects for this book Sophie Dawes as a personality wins hands down . 
Whether she was a criminal or not is a question even now in dispute . 
Unscrupulous she certainly was , and a good deal of a rogue . 
That modern American product the gold digger' is what she herself would call a piker' compared with the subject of this chapter . 
As , I think , you will presently see . 
Sophie was born at St Helens , Isle of Wight according to herself in . 
There is controversy on the matter . 
Mme Montagu in her book says that some of Sophie's biographers put the date at , or even . 
But Mme Montagu herself reproduces the list of wearing apparel with which Sophie was furnished when she left the house of industry' . 
In those days children were not maintained in poor institutions to the mature ages of fifteen or twenty . 
They were supposed to be armed against life's troubles at twelve or even younger . 
Sophie , then , could hardly have been born before , but is quite likely to have been born later . 
The name of Sophie's father is given as Daw . 
'' Like many another celebrity , as , for example , Walter Raleigh and Shakespeare , Sophie spelled her name variously , though ultimately she fixed on Dawes . 
'' Richard , or Dickey , Daw was a fisherman for appearance sake and a smuggler for preference . 
The question of Sophie's legitimacy anses from the fact that her mother , Jane Callaway , was registered at death as a spinster . 
'' Sophie was one of ten children . 
Dickey Daw drank his family into the poorhouse , an institution which sent Sophie to fend for herself in , procuring her a place as servant at a farm on the island . 
Service on a farm does not appear to have appealed to Sophie . 
She escaped to Portsmouth , where she found a job as hotel chambermaid . 
Tiring of that , she went to London and became a milliner's assistant . 
A little affair we hear , in which a mere water carrier was an equal participant , lost Sophie her place . 
Save that as a comedian she never took London by storm , and that she lacked Nell's unfailing good humour , Sophie in her career matches Nell in more than superficial particulars . 
Between selling oranges and appearing on the stage Sophie seems to have touched bottom for a time in poverty . 
But her charms as an actress captivated an officer by and by , and she was established as his mistress in a house at Turnham Green . 
Tiring of her after a time Sophie , it is probable , became exigeant with increased comfort her protector left her with an annuity of L . 
The annuity does not appear to have done Sophie much good . 
The Duc's attention was directed to the good looks of Sophie by a manservant of his . 
Mme Montagu says of Sophie at this time that her face had already lost the first bloom of youth and innocence . 
'' Now , one wonders if that really was so , or if Mme Montagu is making a shot at a hazard . 
She was tall and squarely built , with legs and arms which might have served as models for a statue of Hercules . 
Her muscular force was extraordinary . 
Her lips were rather thin , and she had an ugly habit of contracting them when she was angry . 
Her intelligence was above the average , and she had a good share of wit . 
At the time when the Duc de Bourbon came upon her in the Piccadilly stew the girl was probably no more than eighteen . 
If , moreover , Mme Montagu's description of her is a true one it is clear that Sophie's good looks were not of the sort to make an all round appeal . 
The ways in which attractiveness goes , both in men and in women , are infinite in their variety . 
The reader may recall , in this respect , what was said in the introductory chapter about Kate Webster and the instance of the bewhiskered 'Fina of the Spanish tavern . 
The odds are , at all events , that Sophie was much less artificial in her charms than the practised ladies of complacency upon whom she attended . 
With her odd good looks she very likely had just that subacid leaven for which , in the alchemy of attraction , the Duc was in search . 
The Duc , however , was not the only one to whom Sophie looked desirable . 
Two English peers had an eye on her the Earl of Winchilsea and the Duke of Kent . 
This is where the card affair comes in . 
The Duc either played whist with the two noblemen for sole rights in Sophie or , what is more likely , cut cards with them during a game . 
Whether his win may be regarded as lucky or not can be reckoned , according to the taste and fancy of the reader , from the sequelae of some twenty years . 
II With the placing of Sophie dans ses meubles by the Duc de Bourbon there began one of the most remarkable turns in her career . 
In he took a house for her in Gloucester Street , Queen's Square , with her mother as duenna , and arranged for the completion of her education . 
As a light on her character hardly too much can be made of this stage in her development . 
Here was no rich man's doxy lazily seeking a veneer of culture , enough to gloss the rough patches of speech and idea betraying humble origin . 
is so exceptional as to be practically non existent among her compatriots to this day . 
The fault scarcely belittles her achievement . 
As well blame a one legged man for hopping when trying to run . 
If in the year the Duc began to allow his little Sophie about L a year in francs as pin money he was no more generous than Sophie deserved . 
There is no room here to follow more than the barest outline of the Duc de Bourbon's history . 
Fully stated , it would be the history of France . 
He was a son of the Prince de Conde who collected that futile army beyond the borders of France in the royalist cause in the Revolution . 
Louis Henri was wounded in the left arm while serving there , so badly wounded that the hand was practically useless . 
He came to England , where he lived until , when he went back to France to make his unsuccessful attempt to raise the Vendee . 
Then he went to Spain . 
At this time he intended breaking with Sophie , but when he got back to Paris in he found the lady waiting for him . 
It took Sophie some eighteen months to bring his Highness up to scratch again . 
During this time the Duc had another English fancy , a Miss Harris , whose reign in favour , however , did not withstand the manoeuvring of Sophie . 
Sophie as a mistress in England was one thing , but Sophie unattached as a mistress in France was another . 
One wonders why the Duc should have been squeamish on this point . 
Perhaps it was that he thought it would look vulgar to take up a former mistress after so long . 
At all events , he was ready enough to resume the old relationship with Sophie , provided she could change her name by marriage . 
The idea fell in with her plans . 
She let it get about that she was the natural daughter of the Duc , and soon had in tow one Adrien Victor de Feucheres . 
He was an officer of the Royal Guard . 
Next year de Feucheres became a baron , and was made aide de camp to the Duc . 
Incredible as it may seem , de Feucheres took four years to realize what was the real relationship between his wife and the Prince de Conde . 
She was received as La Baronne de Feucheres at the Court of Louis XVIII . 
She was happy up to a point . 
Some unpretty traits in her character began to develop a violent temper , a tendency to hysterics if crossed , and , it is said , a leaning towards avaricious ways . 
At the end of four years the Baron de Feucheres woke up to the fact that Sophie was deceiving him . 
Having waked up thus belatedly , or having been woken up by Sophie in her ungoverned ill temper , de Feucheres acted with considerable dignity . 
He begged to resign his position as aide to the Prince , and returned his wife's dowry . 
The departure of Sophie's hitherto complacent husband rather embarrassed the Prince . 
He needed Sophie but felt he could not keep her unattached under his roof and he sent her away but only for a few days . 
Sophie soon was back again in Chantilly . 
The Prince made some attempt to get de Feucheres to return , but without success . 
De Feucheres applied for a post in the Army of Spain , an application which was granted at once . 
It took the poor man seven years to secure a judicial separation from his wife . 
The scandal of this change in the menage of Chantilly it happened in reached the ears of the King , and the Baronne de Feucheres was forbidden to appear at Court . 
All Sophie's energies from then on were concentrated on getting the ban removed . 
She explored all possible avenues of influence to this end , and , incidentally drove her old lover nearly frantic with her complaints giving him no peace . 
Even a rebuff from the Duchesse de Berry , widow of the son of that prince who was afterwards Charles X , did not put her off . 
She turned up one day at the Tuileries , to be informed by an usher that she could not be admitted . 
This desire to be reinstated in royal favour is at the back of all Sophie's subsequent actions this and her intention of feathering her own nest out of the estate of her protector . 
It explains why she worked so hard to have the Prince de Conde assume friendly relations with a family whose very name he hated that of the Duc d'Orleans . 
As far as bravery went he had shown himself a worthy descendant of the Great Conde . 
Adrift as a comparatively young man , his world about his ears , with no occupation , small wonder that in idleness he fell into the pursuit of satisfactions for his baser appetites . 
He would have been , there is good reason to believe , a happy man and a busy one in a camp . 
It is possible that much of the Prince's inertia was due to this blow . 
Such a marriage could not last . 
It merely sustained the honeymoon and the birth of that only son . 
The couple were apart in eighteen months , and after ten years they never even saw each other again . 
About the time when Sophie's husband found her out and departed the Princesse died . 
The Prince was advised to marry again , on the chance that an heir might be born to the large fortune he possessed . 
It may be easily believed that the Prince's disinclination to marry again contented Sophie very well . 
And the fact that he had no direct heir was one in which she saw possibilities advantageous to herself . 
The Prince was then sixty six years old . 
In the course of nature he was almost bound to predecease her . 
His wealth was enormous , and out of it Sophie wanted as much by bequest as she could get . 
Her choice in this matter shows at once her political cunning , which would include knowledge of affairs , and her ability as a judge of character . 
It should be remembered that , in spite of his title of Duc de Bourbon , Sophie's elderly protector was only distantly of that family . 
He was descended in direct line from the Princes de Conde , whose connexion with the royal house of France dated back to the sixteenth century . 
The other line of royal' ducs in the country was that of Orleans , offshoot of the royal house through Philippe , son of Louis XIII , and born in . 
'' This was a man whom , for his political opinion and for his failure to stand by the King , Louis XVI , the Prince de Conde utterly detested in memory . 
As much , moreover , as he had hated the father did the Prince de Conde detest Egalite's son . 
But it was out of this man's family that Sophie selected , though ultimately , her coheir . 
Before she arrived at this point , however , Sophie had been at pains to do some not very savoury manoeuvring . 
The Comtesse de Rully and her husband had a suite at Chantilly . 
This was an arrangement which Sophie , as reigning Queen of Chantilly , did not like at all . 
While the Rully woman remained at Chantilly Sophie could not think that her sway over the Prince was quite as absolute as she wished . 
It took her six years of badgering her protector , from to , to bring about the eviction . 
If she could persuade her protector to this the Duc d'Orleans , in return , was to use his influence for her reinstatement at Court . 
And persuade the old man to this Sophie did , albeit after a great deal of badgering on her part and a great deal of grumbling on the part of the Prince . 
The influence exerted at Court by the Duc d'Orleans does not seem to have been very effective . 
The King who had dismissed her the Court , Louis XVIII , died in . 
He lasted a mere six years as king . 
The revolution of sent him into exile . 
After that Sophie pinned her faith in the power possessed by the Duc d'Orleans . 
She wanted first to make sure of her share of the fortune he would leave . 
She knew her power over the old man . 
Much as she wanted to be received again at Court , she wanted more just as much as she could grab from the Prince's estate . 
To make her inheritance secure she needed the help of the Duc d'Orleans . 
The Duc d'Orleans was nothing loth . 
He had the mind of a French bourgeois , and all the bourgeois itch for money . 
He knew that the Prince de Conde hated him , hated his politics , hated his very name . 
The scheme was to have the Prince adopt the little Duc d'Aumale , already his godchild , as his heir . 
The ways by which Sophie went about the job of persuading her old lover do not read pleasantly . 
He hated the very idea of making a will it made him think of death . 
He was old , ill , friendless . 
Sophie made his life a hell , but he had become dependent upon her . 
She ill used him , subjecting him to physical violence , but yet he was afraid she might , as she often threatened , leave him . 
Her way of persuading him reached the point , it is on record , of putting a knife to his throat . 
Not once but several times his servants found him scratched and bruised . 
But the old man could not summon up the strength of mind to be quit of this succubine virago . 
At last , on the th of August , , Sophie's persuasions' succeeded . 
The Prince consented to sign the will , and did so the following morning . 
The cost of running this establishment , however , was to be borne by the Duc d'Aumale . 
It might be thought that Sophie , having got her way , would have turned to kindness in her treatment of her old lover . 
All her mind was now concentrated on working , through the Duc d'Orleans , for being received again at Court . 
She ultimately succeeded in this . 
On the th of February , , she appeared in the presence of the King , the Dauphin and Dauphine . 
In the business of preparing for this great day Chantilly and the Prince de Conde were greatly neglected . 
The beggar on horseback had to be about Paris . 
On the th of July revolution broke out in France . 
Charles X and his family had to seek shelter in England , and Louis Philippe , Duc d'Orleans , became not King of France , but King of the French'' by election . 
This consummation had not been achieved without intrigue on the part of Egalite's son . 
It was not an achievement calculated to abate the Prince de Conde's hatred for him . 
Rather did it inflame that hatred . 
This is a point to be remembered in the light of subsequent events . 
IV While she had been looking after herself Sophie Dawes had not been unmindful ofthe advancement of hangers on of her own family . 
She had about her a nephew and a niece . 
The latter , supposed by some to have a closer relationship to Sophie than that of mere niece , she had contrived to marry off to a marquis . 
The Marquise de Chabannes de la Palice need not here concern us further . 
But notice must be taken of the nephew . 
De Flassans , with some minor post in the Prince's household , acted as his aunt's jackal . 
The old man , it appeared , had suddenly developed the habit of writing letters . 
The Prince , then at the chateau of Saint Leu expressed a desire to remove to Chantilly . 
He was behaving very oddly all round , was glad to have Sophie out of his sight , and seemed unwilling even to hear her name . 
The projected move to Chantilly , as a fact , was merely a blind to cover a flight out of Sophie's reach and influence . 
Rumour arose about Saint Leu and in Paris that the Prince had made another will one in which neither Sophie nor the Duc d'Aumale was mentioned . 
This was a move of which Sophie had been afraid . 
She saw to it that the Prince did not get away from Saint Leu . 
Rumour and the Prince's conduct made Sophie very anxious . 
This was the position of affairs about the middle of August . 
It was believed the Prince had already signed a will in favour of the exiled little Duc de Bordeaux , but that he had kept the act secret from his mistress . 
On the morning of the th of the month the Prince was met outside his bedroom in his night attire . 
It was a young man called Obry who thus met the Prince . 
He was the old man's godchild . 
The old man's left eye was bleeding , and there was a scratch on his cheek as if made by a fingernail . 
To Obry the Prince attributed these wounds to the spite of the Baronne de Feucheres . 
Half an hour later he told his valet he had hit his head against a night table . 
For the next ten days or so the Prince was engaged in contriving his flight from the gentle Sophie , a second plan which again was spoiled by Sophie's spies . 
There was something of a fete at Saint Leu on the th , the Prince's saint's day . 
There was a quarrel between Sophie and the Prince on the morning of the th in the latter's bedroom . 
Sophie had then been back in Saint Leu for three days . 
At midnight on the th the old man retired after playing a game or two at whist . 
He was to go on the th to Chantilly . 
He was accompanied to his bedroom by his surgeon and a valet , one Lecomte , and expressed a desire to be called at eight o'clock . 
Lecomte found a paper in the Prince's trousers and gave it to the old man , who placed it on the mantelshelf . 
The Prince's apartments were on the first floor of the chateau . 
His bedroom was approached through the dressing room from the main corridor . 
Beyond the dressing room was a passage , turning left from which was the bedroom , and to the right in which was an entrance to an anteroom . 
Facing the dressing room door in this same passage was the entrance to the secret staircase already mentioned . 
The staircase gave access to the Baronne de Feucheres' apartments on the entrance floor . 
These , however , were not immediately under the Prince's rooms . 
Adjacent to the Prince's room , and on the same floor , were the rooms occupied by Lambot , the Prince's aide , and the valet Lecomte . 
Lambot was a lover of Sophie's , and had been the great go between in her intrigues with the Orleans family over the will . 
Lecomte was in Sophie's pay . 
Close to Sophie's apartments on the entrance floor were the rooms occupied by her nephew and his wife , the de Flassans . 
It will be seen , therefore , that the wing containing the Prince's rooms was otherwise occupied almost completely by Sophie's creatures . 
About him , on all sides , are the creatures of his not too scrupulous mistress . 
All these people , with the exception of the Baronne de Flassans , who sat up writing letters until two , retire about the same time . 
And at eight o'clock next morning , there being no answer to Lecomte's knocking to arouse the Prince , the door is broken open at the orders of the Baronne de Feucheres . 
The fastening was only about two and a half feet off the floor . 
The handkerchief about the dead man's neck was loose enough to have permitted insertion of all the fingers of a hand between it and the neck . 
The second handkerchief was tied to the first , and its other end was knotted to the window fastening , and the dead man's right cheek was pressed against the closed shutter . 
The knees were bent a little , the feet were on the floor . 
None of the usual indications of death by strangulation were present . 
The eyes were half closed . 
The face was pale but not livid . 
The mouth was almost closed . 
There was no protrusion of the tongue . 
On the arrival of the civil functionaries , the Mayor of Saint Leu and a Justice of the Peace from Enghien , the body was taken down and put on the bed . 
It was then found that the dead man's ankles were greatly bruised and his legs scratched . 
On the left side of the throat , at a point too low for it to have been done by the handkerchief , there was some stripping of the skin . 
A large red bruise was found between the Prince's shoulders . 
The King , Louis Philippe , heard about the death of the Prince de Conde at half past eleven that same day . 
He immediately sent his High Chancellor , M. Pasquier , and his own aide de camp , M. de Rumigny , to inquire into the matter . 
It is not stretching things too far to say that the King's instructions to these gentlemen are revealed in phrases occurring in the letters they sent his Majesty that same evening . 
Both recommend that Drs Marc and Marjolin should be sent to investigate the Prince's tragic death . 
But M. Pasquier mentions that not a single document has been found , so a search has already been made . 
'' And M. de Rumigny thinks it is important that nobody should be accused who is likely to benefit by the will . 
'' What document was expected to be discovered in the search ? Why , a second will that would invalidate the first . 
During the examination the Prince's doctors , MM . 
Dubois and Gendrin , his personal secretary , and the faithful one among his body servants , Manoury , were sent out of the room . 
The Prince's own doctors maintained that suicide by the handkerchiefs from the window fastening was impossible . 
Dr Dubois wrote his idea of how the death had occurred The Prince very likely was asleep in his bed . 
The murderers must have been given entrance to his bedroom I have no wish to ask how or by whom . 
And that , at all hazards , is about the truth of the death of the Duc de Bourbon and Prince de Conde . 
Not , however , with complete success . 
There were few in France who gave any countenance to the theory of suicide . 
The Prince , it will be remembered , had a practically disabled left arm . 
It is said that he could not even remove his hat with his left hand . 
The knots in the handkerchiefs used to tie him to the espagnolette were both complicated and tightly made . 
Impossible for a one handed man . 
His bed , which at the time of his retiring to it stood close to the alcove wall , was a good foot and a half away from that wall in the morning . 
Impossible feat also for this one handed man . 
It was the Prince's habit to lie so much to one side of the bed that his servants had to prop the outside edge up with folded blankets . 
On the morning when his death was discovered it was seen that the edges still were high , while the centre was very much pressed down . 
There was , in fact , a hollow in the bed's middle such as might have been made by some one standing on it with shoes on . 
It is significant that the bedclothes were neatly turned down . 
If the Prince had got up on a sudden impulse to commit suicide he is hardly likely , being a prince , to have attempted remaking his bed . 
He must , moreover , since he could normally get from bed only by rolling on his side , have pressed out that heightened edge . 
Manoury , the valet who loved him , said that the bed in the morning looked more as if it had been SMOOTHED OUT than remade . 
This would tend to support the theory of Dr Dubois . 
The murderers , having suffocated the Prince , would be likely to try effacing the effects of his struggling by the former method rather than the latter . 
But the important point of the affair , as far as this chapter on it is concerned , is the relation of Sophie Dawes with it on the conclusion of murder . 
How deeply was she implicated ? Let us see how she acted on hearing that there was no reply to Lecomte's knocking , and let us examine her conduct from that moment on . 
Note that the Baronne de Feucheres was the first person whom Lecomte and the Prince's surgeon apprised of the Prince's silence . 
She rushed out of her room and made for the Prince's , not by the secret staircase , but by the main one . 
She knew , however , that the door to the secret staircase from the Prince's room was not bolted that night . 
This knowledge was admitted for her later by the Prince's surgeon , M. Bonnie . 
Regarding the accident' which had happened to the Prince on the th of August , she said it was explained by an earlier attempt on his part to do away with himself . 
She tried to deny that she had been at Saint Leu at the time of the actual happening , when the fact was that she only left for Paris some hours later . 
It is beyond question that the Prince de Conde was murdered . 
He was murdered in a wing of the chateau in which he was hemmed in on all sides by Sophie's creatures . 
It is impossible that Sophie was not privy , at the least , to the deed . 
It is not beyond the bounds of probability that she was an actual participator in the murder . 
She was a violent woman , as violent and passionate as she was determined . 
Not once but many times is it on record that she physically ill used her elderly lover . 
There was one occasion , it is said , when the Prince suddenly came upon her in a very compromising position with a younger man in the park of one of his chateaux . 
Sophie , before the Prince could utter a protest , cut him across the face with her riding whip , and finished up by thrashing him with his own cane . 
Here you have the stuff , at any rate , of which your murderesses of the violent type are made . 
It is the metal out of which your Kate Websters , your Sarah Malcolms , your Meteyards and Brownriggs fashion themselves . 
It takes more than three years of scholastic self discipline , such as Sophie Dawes in her ambition subjected herself to , to eradicate the inborn harridan . 
He published a pamphlet declaring that the Prince had made a will leaving his entire fortune to the little Duc de Bordeaux , but that Sophie had stolen this later will . 
Murder of the Prince was her only chance . 
It had taken her seven years to bring him to the point of signing that first will . 
He was seventy four years of age , enfeebled , obstinate , and she knew of his plans to flee from her . 
It only needed that the would be heirs of the Prince should hear of it , and there would be a swoop on their part to rescue the testator from her clutches . 
The inquiry begun in September of into the circumstances surrounding the death of the Prince was cooked before it was dressed . 
The honest man into whose hands it was placed at first , a M. de la Hurpoie , proved himself too zealous . 
After a night visit from the Procureur he was retired into private life . 
After that the investigators were hand picked . 
They concluded the investigation the following June , with the declaration that the Prince had committed suicide , a verdict which had its reward in advancement for the judges . 
The grounds for the action were the undue influence exerted by Sophie . 
The Princes de Rohan lost . 
Thus was Sophie twice legally' vindicated . 
But public opinion refused her any coat of whitewash . 
Never popular in France , she became less and less popular in the years that followed her legal triumphs . 
Having used her for his own ends , Louis Philippe gradually shut off from her the light of his cod like countenance . 
Lacenaire , the notorious murderer robber in a biting song , written in prison , expressed the popular opinion regarding Louis Philippe's share in the Feucheres Conde affair . 
Je suis fourbe , avare , mechant , Ladre , impitoyable , rapace J'ai fait se pendre mon parent Sire , cedez moi votre place . 
'' Sophie found little joy in her wide French possessions . 
She found herself without friends before whom she could play the great lady in her castles . 
She gradually got rid of her possessions , and returned to her native land . 
She bought an estate near Christchurch , in Hampshire , and took a house in Hyde Park Square , London . 
But she did not long enjoy those English homes . 
While being treated for dropsy in she died of angina . 
According to the famous surgeon who was at her bedside just before her demise , she died game . 
'' It may almost be said that she lived game . 
There must have been a fighting quality about Sophie to take her so far from such a bad start . 
Violent as she was of temper , greedy , unscrupulous , she seems yet to have had some instincts of kindness . 
The stories of her good deeds are rather swamped by those of her bad ones . 
The request never was fulfilled , but it does show that Sophie had some affinity in kindness to Nell Gwynn . 
How much farther or how much better would Sophie Dawes have fared had her manners been less at the mercy of her temper ? It is impossible to say . 
That she had some quality of greatness is beyond doubt . 
Under Napoleon , as a man , Sophie might have climbed high on the way to glory . 
As a woman , with those traits , there is almost tragic inevitability in the manner in which we find her ranged with what Dickens called Glory's bastard brother'' Murder . 
There was no need for them to introduce themselves to that official . 
They were well known medical men of the city , Drs Pinault and Boudin . 
The former of the two acted as spokesman . 
Dr Pinault confessed to some distress of mind . 
He had been called in by his colleague for consultation in the case of a girl , Rosalie Sarrazin , servant to an eminent professor of law , M. Bidard . 
In spite of the ministrations of himself and his colleague , Rosalie had died . 
The symptoms of the illness had been very much the same as in the case of a former servant of M. Bidard's , a girl named Rose Tessier , who had also died . 
With this in mind they had persuaded the relatives of Rosalie to permit an autopsy . 
They had to confess that they had found no trace of poison in the body , but they were still convinced the girl had died of poisoning . 
The door of the Professor's house was opened to them by Helene Jegado , another of M. Bidard's servants . 
She was a woman of forty odd , somewhat scraggy of figure and , while not exactly ugly , not prepossessing of countenance . 
Her habit of looking anywhere but into the face of anyone addressing her gave her rather a furtive air . 
Having ushered the three gentlemen into the presence of the Professor , the servant woman lingered by the door . 
We have come , M. Bidard , '' said the Procureur , on a rather painful mission . 
One of your servants died recently it is suspected , of poisoning . 
'' I am innocent ! '' The three visitors wheeled to stare , with the Professor , at the grey faced woman in the doorway . 
It was she who had made the exclamation . 
Innocent of what ? '' demanded the Law officer . 
Helene Jegado's past was inquired into , and a strange and dreadful Odyssey the last twenty years of her life proved to be . 
It was an Odyssey of death . 
prairial , '' in the eleventh year of the republic . 
Orphaned at the age of seven , she was sheltered by the cure of Bubry , M. Raillau , with whom two of her aunts were servants . 
A girl looking after the cure's sheep declared she had found grains of hemp in soup prepared for her by Helene . 
It was not , however , until that causing death is laid at her charge . 
In that year she entered the service of a priest in Guern , one Le Drogo . 
In the space of little more than three months , from the th of June to the rd of October , seven persons in the priest's household died . 
All those people died after painful vomitings , and all of them had eaten food prepared by Helene , who nursed each of them to the last . 
, the rector's father and mother , and Le Drogo himself . 
This last , a strong and vigorous man , was dead within thirty two hours of the first onset of his illness . 
Two deaths followed that of Le Drogo . 
Such a fatal outbreak did not pass without suspicion . 
The body of the rector was examined by Dr Galzain , who found indications of grave disorder in the digestive tracts , with inflammation of the intestines . 
His colleague , Dr Martel , had suspicions of poison , but the pious sorrow of Helene lulled his mind as far as she was concerned . 
We next find Helene returned to Bubry , replacing her sister Anna in the service of the cure there . 
In three months three people died Helene's aunt Marie Jeanne Liscouet and the cure's niece and sister . 
But here , as hitherto , Helene attended all the sufferers . 
Her grief over their deaths impressed every one with whom she came in contact . 
From Bubry Helene went to Locmine . 
The Widow Leboucher was stricken ill , as also was one of her daughters . 
The son of the house , Pierre , also fell ill . 
But , not liking Helene , he refused her ministrations , and recovered . 
By this time Helene had become somewhat sensitive . 
I'm afraid , '' she said to a male relative of the deceased sempstress , that people will accuse me of all those deaths . 
Death follows me wherever I go . 
'' She quitted the Leboucher establishment in distress . 
A widow of the same town offered her house room . 
The widow died , having eaten soup of Helene's preparing . 
On the day following the Widow Lorey's death her niece , Veuve Cadic , arrived . 
The grief stricken Helene threw herself into the niece's arms . 
My poor girl ! '' exclaimed the Veuve Cadic . 
Ai but I'm so unhappy ! '' Helene grieved . 
Where ever I go Seglien , Guern , Bubry , Veuve Laboucher's people die ! She had cause for grief , sure enough . 
In less than eighteen months thirteen persons with whom she had been closely associated had died of violent sickness . 
But more were to follow . 
In May of Helene was in service with the Dame Toussaint , of Locmine . 
They were the Dame's confidential maid , Anne Eveno , M. Toussaint pere , a daughter of the house , Julie , and , later , Mme Toussaint herself . 
They had eaten vegetable soup prepared by Helene Jegado . 
Something tardily the son of the house , liking neither Helene's face nor the deathly rumours that were rife about her , dismissed her . 
To one as burdened with sorrow as Helene Jegado appeared to be the life conventual was bound to hold appeal . 
She was admitted as a pensionnaire . 
Her sojourn in the convent did not last long , for queer disorders marked her stay . 
Linen in the convent cupboards and the garments of the pupils were maliciously slashed . 
Helene was suspect and was packed off . 
Once again Helene became apprentice to a sempstress , this time an old maid called Anne Lecouvrec , proprietress of the Bonnes oeuvres in Auray . 
The ancient lady , seventy seven years of age , tried Helene's soup . 
She died two days later . 
To a niece of the deceased Helene made moan Ah ! I carry sorrow . 
My masters die wherever I go ! '' The realization , however , did not prevent Helene from seeking further employment . 
She next got a job with a lady named Lefur in Ploermel , and stayed for a month . 
Some time before her departure , however , she persuaded Anne Lefur to accept a drink of her preparing , and Anne , hitherto a healthy woman , became very ill indeed . 
In this case Helene did not show her usual solicitude . 
She rather heartlessly abandoned the invalid which would appear to have been a good thing for the invalid , for , lacking Helene's ministrations , she got better . 
Helene meantime had found a place in Auray with a lady named Hetel . 
The job lasted only a few days . 
Mme Hetel's son in law , M. Le Dore , having heard why Helene was at need to leave the convent of the Eternal Father , showed her the door of the house . 
That was hasty , but not hasty enough . 
His mother in law , having already eaten meats cooked by Helene , was in the throes of the usual violent sickness , and died the day after Helene's departure . 
Failing to secure another place in Auray , Helene went to Pontivy , and got a position as cook in the household of the Sieur Jouanno . 
She had been there some few months when the son of the house , a boy of fourteen , died after a sickness of five days that was marked by vomiting and convulsions . 
In this case an autopsy was immediately held . 
It revealed an inflamed condition of the stomach and some corrosion of the intestines . 
But the boy had been known to be a vinegar drinker , and the pathological conditions discovered by the doctor were attributed by him to the habit . 
Helene's next place was with a M. Kerallic in Hennebont . 
M. Kerallic was recovering from a fever . 
After drinking a tisane prepared by Helene he had a relapse , followed by repeated and fierce vomiting that destroyed him in five days . 
After that the trail of death which had followed Helene's itineracy about the lower section of the Brittany peninsula was broken for three years . 
In we hear of her again , in the house of the Dame Veron , where another death occurred , again with violent sickness . 
In Helene was in Lorient , domestic servant to a middle aged couple named Dupuyde Lome , with whom lived their daughter and her husband , a M. Breger . 
No more of the family died , but M. Dupuy and his daughter suffered from bodily numbness for years afterwards , with partial paralysis and recurrent pains in the extremities . 
Helene seems to have made Lorient too hot for herself , and had to go elsewhere . 
Port Louis is her next scene of action . 
A kinswoman of her master in this town , one Duperron , happened to miss a sheet from the household stock . 
Mlle Leblanc charged Helene with the theft , and demanded the return of the stolen article . 
It is recorded that Helene refused to give it up , and her answer is curious . 
I am going into retreat , '' she declared . 
God has forgiven me my sins ! '' There was perhaps something prophetic in the declaration . 
Between and the wanderings of Helene Jegado through those quiet Brittany towns had been marked by twenty three deaths , six illnesses , and numerous thefts . 
They were petty thefts , but towards the end of the period they begin to indicate a change in Helene's habits . 
She seems to have taken to drink , for her thefts are mostly of wine and eau de vie . 
In March Helene was in Rennes . 
On the th of November of the following year , having been dismissed from several houses for theft , she became sole domestic servant to a married couple called Rabot . 
Their son , Albert , who was already ill , died in the end of December . 
He had eaten a farina porridge cooked by Helene . 
In the following February , having discovered Helene's depredations from the wine cupboard , M. Rabot gave her notice . 
This was on the rd of the month . 
The next day Mme Rabot and Rabot himself , having taken soup of Helene's making , became very ill . 
Rabot's mother in law ate a panade prepared by Helene . 
They all recovered after Helene had departed , but Rabot , like M. Dupuy de Lome , was partially paralysed for months afterwards . 
In Helene's next situation , with people called Ozanne , her way of abstracting liquor again was noticed . 
She was chided for stealing eau de vie . 
Soon after that the Ozannes' little son died suddenly , very suddenly . 
The doctor called in thought it was from a croup fever . 
On the day following the death of the little Ozanne Helene entered the service of M. Roussell , proprietor of the Bout du Monde hotel in Rennes . 
Some six weeks later Roussell's mother suddenly became ill . 
She had had occasion to reproach Helene for sullen ill manners or something of that sort . 
She ate some potage which Helene had cooked . 
The illness that ensued lasted a long time . 
Eighteen months later the old lady had hardly recovered . 
In the hotel with Helene as fellow servant there was a woman of thirty , Perrotte Mace , very greatly relied upon by her masters , with whom she had been five years . 
She was a strongly built woman who carried herself finely . 
Perrotte openly agreed with the Veuve Roussell regarding Helene's behaviour . 
This , with the confidence reposed in Perrotte by the Roussells , might have been enough to set Helene against her . 
The Veuve Roussell fell ill in the middle of June . 
In August Perrotte was seized by a similar malady , and , in spite of all her resistance , had to take to her bed . 
Vomiting and purging marked the course of her illness , pains in the stomach and limbs , distension of the abdomen , and swelling of the feet . 
With her strong constitution she put up a hard fight for her life , but succumbed on the st of September , . 
The doctors called in , MM . 
Vincent and Guyot , were extremely puzzled by the course of the illness . 
At times the girl would seem to be on the mend , then there would come a sudden relapse . 
After Perrotte's death they pressed for an autopsy , but the peasant relatives of the girl showed the usual repugnance of their class to the idea . 
Helene was taken red handed in the theft of wine , and was dismissed . 
Fifteen days later she took service with the Bidards . 
These are the salient facts of Helene's progression from to as brought out by the investigations made by and for the Procureur General of Rennes . 
All possible channels were explored to discover where Helene had procured the arsenic , but without success . 
Under examination by the Juge d'instruction she stoutly denied all knowledge of the poison . 
I don't know anything about arsenic don't know what it is , '' she repeated . 
No witness can say I ever had any . 
During her trial mention was made of packets found in a chest she had used while at Locsine , the place where seven deaths had occurred . 
But it was never clearly established that these packets had contained arsenic . 
It was never clearly established , though it could be inferred , that Helene ever had arsenic at all . 
The charges against her were limited to eleven thefts , three murders by poisoning , and three attempts at murder by the like means . 
We shall see , however , that , under the curious rules regarding permissible evidence which prevail in French criminal law , the Assize Court concerned itself quite largely with this prescribed matter . 
The trial began on the th of December , , at a time when France was in a political uproar or , more justly perhaps , was settling down from political uproar . 
The famous coup d'etat of that year had happened four days before . 
Maitre Dorange , defending Helene , asked for a remand to a later session on the ground that some of his material witnesses were unavailable owing to the political situation . 
An eminent doctor , M. Baudin , had died pour maintien des lois . 
'' There was some argument on the matter , but the President ruled that all material witnesses were present . 
Scientific experts could be called only to assist the court . 
The business of this first day was taken up almost completely by questions on the facts produced in investigation , and these mostly facts covered by the prescription . 
The legal value of this run of questions would seem doubtful in the Anglo Saxon idea of justice , but it gives an indication of the shiftiness in answer of the accused . 
It was a long interrogation , but Helene faced it with notable self possession . 
On occasion she answered with vigour , but in general sombrely and with lowered eyes . 
At times she broke into volubility . 
This did not serve to remove the impression of shiftiness , for her answers were seldom to the point . 
There were plenty of witnesses to express their belief in her white liver'' and to tell of her reputation of carrying death . 
Asked why she had been dismissed from the convent at Auray , she answered that she did not know . 
The Mother Superior had told her to go . 
She had been too old to learn reading and writing . 
This last answer was true in part . 
The evidence on which Helene had been dismissed the convent was circumstantial . 
A sister from the community described Helene's behaviour otherwise as edifying indeed . 
After the merciless fashion of French judges , the President came back time and again to attack Helene on the question of poison . 
Qu'est ce que c'est l'arsenic ? Je n'en ai jamais vu d'arsenic , moi ! '' The President had occasion later to take her up on these denials . 
The curate of Seglien came to give evidence . 
He had been curate during the time of M. Conan , in whose service Helene had been at that time . 
He could swear that M. Conan had repeatedly told his servants to watch that the domestic animals did not get at the poisoned bait prepared for the rats . 
M. Conan's servants had complete access to the arsenic used . 
Helene interposed at this point . 
I know , '' she said , that M. Conan had asked for arsenic , but I wasn't there at the time . 
My aunt told me about it . 
'' The President reminded her that in her interrogaion she had declared she knew nothing of arsenic , nor had heard anyone speak of it . 
This evidence of the arsenic at Seglien was brought forward on the second day of the trial , when witnesses began to be heard . 
After reminding her that Rose Tessier's sickness had increased after taking a tisane that Helene had prepared the President asked if it was not the fact that she alone had looked after Rose . 
No , '' Helen replied . 
All I did was put the tisane on to boil . 
I have suffered a great deal , '' she added gratuitously . 
The good God will give me grace to bear up to the end . 
If I have not died of my sufferings in prison it is because God's hand has guided and sustained me . 
'' With that in parenthesis , let us return to the evidence of the witnesses on the second day of the trial . 
Martel , a pharmacist , brother of the doctor who had attended Le Drogo , spoke of his brother's suspicions , suspicions which had recurred on meeting with the cases at Bubry . 
They had been diverted by the lavishly affectionate attendance Helene had given to the sufferers . 
Relatives of the victims of Locmine told of Helene's predictions of death , and of her plaints that death followed her everywhere . 
They also remarked on the very kind ministrations of Helene . 
In he had been called in to see Helene herself , who was suffering from an intermittent fever . 
Next day the fever had disappeared . 
He was told that she had been dosing herself , and he was shown a packet which had been in her possession . 
It contained substances that looked like kermes mineral , some saffron , and a white powder that amounted to perhaps ten grammes . 
He had disliked Helene at first sight . 
, who also had no liking for Helene , fell ill and died . 
His father fell violently ill in turn , seemed to get better , and looked like recovering . 
But inexplicable complications supervened , and his father died suddenly of a haemorrhage of the intestinal canal . 
His sister Julie , who had been the first to fall sick , also seemed to recover , but after the death of the father had a relapse . 
In his idea Helene , having cured herself , was able to drug the invalids in her care . 
The witness ordered her to be kept completely away from the sufferers , but one night she contrived to get the nurses out of the way . 
A confrere he called in ordered bouillon to be given . 
Helene had charge of the kitchen , and it was she who prepared the bouillon . 
It was she who administered it . 
Three hours later his sister died in agony . 
Or , simply , kermes a pharmaceutical composition , containing antimony and sodium sulphates and oxide of antimony formerly used as an expectorant . 
The witness suggested an autopsy . 
His family would not agree . 
The pious behaviour of Helene put her beyond suspicion , but he took it on himself to dismiss her . 
During the illness of his father , when Helene herself was ill , he went reluctantly to see her , being told that she was dying . 
Instead of finding her in bed he came upon her making some sort of white sauce . 
As soon as he appeared she threw herself into bed and pretended to be suffering intense pain . 
A little later he asked to see the sauce . 
He had advised his niece to reserve his sister's evacuations . 
His niece replied that Helene was so scrupulously tidy that such vessels were never left about , but were taken away at once to be emptied and cleaned . 
I revised my opinion of the woman after she had gone , '' added the witness . 
I thought her very well behaved . 
I never had any drugs in my possession never . 
When I had fever I took the powders given me by the doctor , but I did not know what they were ! THE PRESIDENT . 
Why did you say yesterday that nothing was ever found in your luggage ? HELENE . 
What were you doing with the saffron ? Wasn't it in your possession during the time you were in Seglien ? HELENE . 
I was taking it for my blood . 
And the white powder did it also come from Seglien ? HELENE energetically . 
You deny the existence of that white powder , '' said the President , because you know it was poison . 
You put it away from you with horror ! '' The accused several times tried to answer this charge , but failed . 
Her face was beaded with moisture . 
Had you or had you not any white powder at Losmine ? HELENE . 
I can't say if I still had fever there . 
What was that powder ? When did you first have it ? HELENE . 
I had taken it at Locmine . 
Somebody gave it to me for two sous . 
Sulphate of quinine but that's not what it was . 
Questioned by the advocate for the defence , the witness said he would not affirm that the powder he saw was arsenic . 
His present opinion , however , was that his father and sister had died from injections of arsenic in small doses . 
A witness from Locmine spoke of her sister's two children becoming ill after taking chocolate prepared by the accused . 
The latter told her that a mob had followed her in the street , accusing her of the deaths of those she had been servant to . 
Then came one of those curious samples of what the soldier said' that are so often admitted in French criminal trials as evidence . 
Louise Clocher said she had seen Helene on the road between Auray and Lorient in the company of a soldier . 
Where any suspicion had touched Helene her piety and her tender care of the sufferers had disarmed it . 
The old lady died next day . 
The day following the revelation , '' said M. Le Dore , I put Helene out . 
She threw herself on the ground uttering fearsome yells . 
The day's meal had been prepared . 
I had it thrown out , and put Helene herself to the door with her luggage , INTO WHICH SHE HASTILY STOWED A PACKET . 
Mme Hetel died next day in fearful agony . 
'' I am responsible for the italicizing . 
It is hard to understand why M. Le Dore did no more than put Helene to the door . 
He was suspicious enough to throw out the meal prepared by Helene , and he saw her hastily stow a packet in her luggage . 
But , though he was Mayor of Auray , he did nothing more about his mother in law's death . 
It is to be remarked , however , that the Hetels themselves were against the brusque dismissal of Helene . 
She had smothered the mother with care and attentions . 
He had thought for a moment of suspecting Helene of causing the child's death and the illness of the rest of the family , but there seemed small grounds . 
What interest had the girl in cutting off their lives ? '' It is a commonplace that murder without motive is the hardest to detect . 
It is not at all on record that she had reason for wishing to eliminate any one of those twenty three persons . 
She seems to have poisoned for the mere sake of poisoning . 
Time and again you find her being taken in by kindly people after such accidents , and made an object of sympathy for the dreadful coincidences that were making her so unhappy . 
It was out of sympathy that the Widow Lorey , of Locmine , took Helene into her house . 
On the widow's death the niece arrived . 
In court the niece described the scene on her arrival . 
Helene embraced me , '' she said . 
'Unhappy me ! she wept . 
Wherever I go everybody dies ! I pitied and consoled her . 
'' And even those who afterwards found articles missing from their household goods At the same time I did not suspect her probity . 
She went to Mass every morning and to the evening services . 
I was very surprised to find some of my napkins among the stuff Helene was accused of stealing . 
'' I did not know of Helene's thefts until I was shown the objects stolen , '' said a lady of Vannes . 
Without that proof I would never have suspected the girl . 
Helene claimed affiliation with a religious sisterhood , served very well , and was a worker . 
'' It is perhaps of interest to note how Helene answered the testimony regarding her thieving proclivities . 
Mme Lejoubioux , of Vannes , said her furnishing bills went up considerably during the time Helene was in her service . 
Helene had purloined two cloths . 
Helene That was for vengeance . 
I was furious at being sent away . 
Sieur Cesar le Clerc and Mme Gauthier swore to thefts from them by Helene . 
Helene I stole nothing from Mme Gauthier except one bottle of wine . 
If I commit a larceny it is from choler . 
WHEN I'M FURIOUS I STEAL ! '' It was when Helene began to poison for vengeance that retribution fell upon her . 
Her fondness for the bottle started to get her into trouble . 
Up to she had poisoned for the pleasure of it , masking her secret turpitude with an outward show of piety , of being helpful in time of trouble . 
Her essays in poisoning now had purpose and motive behind them . 
Nemesis , so long at her heels , overtook her . 
Twenty three poisonings , six attempts , and a number of thefts had been washed out , it may be as well to repeat , by the prescription legale . 
We thus have five deaths and five attempts in Rennes , all of which could be indictable . 
But , as already stated , the indictment covered three deaths and three attempts . 
It is hard to say , from verbatim reports of the trial , where the matter of the indictment begins to be handled . 
It would seem from the evidence produced that proof was sought of all five deaths and all five attempts that Helene was supposed to be guilty of in Rennes . 
The father of the boy Ozanne was called before the Rabot witnesses , though the Rabot death and illnesses occurred before the death of the Ozanne child . 
We may , however , take the order of affairs as dealt with in the court . 
We may see something of motive on Helene's part suggested in M. Ozanne's evidence , and an indication of her method of covering her crime . 
M. Ozanne said that Helene , in his house , drank eau de vie in secret , and , to conceal her thefts , filled the bottle up with cider . 
He discovered the trick , and reproached Helene for it . 
She denied the accusation with vigour , and angrily announced her intention of leaving . 
Mme Ozanne took pity on Helene , and told her she might remain several days longer . 
On the Tuesday following the young child became ill . 
The illness seemed to be a fleeting one , and the father and mother thought he had recovered . 
On the Saturday , however , the boy was seized by vomiting , and the parents wondered if they should send for the doctor . 
If the word was mine , '' said Helene , who had the boy on her knees , and the child as ill as he looks , I should not hesitate . 
'' The doctor was sent for about noon on Sunday . 
He thought it only a slight illness . 
Towards evening the child began to complain of pain all over his body . 
His hands and feet were icy cold . 
About six o'clock the doctor came back . 
My God ! '' he exclaimed . 
It's the croup ! '' He tried to apply leeches , but the boy died within a few minutes . 
Helene hastened the little body into its shroud . 
Helene , said Ozanne , always talked of poison if anyone left their food . 
Do you think I'm poisoning you ? '' she would ask . 
A girl named Cambrai gave evidence that Helene , coming away from the cemetery after the burial of the child , said to her , I am not so sorry about the child . 
Its parents have treated me shabbily . 
'' The witness thought Helene too insensitive and reproached her . 
That's a lie ! '' the accused shouted . 
I loved the child ! '' The doctor , M. Brute , gave evidence next . 
He still believed the child had died of a croup affection , the most violent he had ever seen . 
The President questioned him closely on the symptoms he had seen in the child , but the doctor stuck to his idea . 
He had seen nothing to make him suspect poisoning . 
The President It is strange that in all the cases we have under review the doctors saw nothing at first that was serious . 
They admit illness and prescribe mild remedies , and then , suddenly , the patients get worse and die . 
'' M. Victor Rabot was called next . 
To begin with , he said , Helene's services were satisfactory . 
He had given her notice because he found her stealing his wine . 
Upon this Helene showed the greatest discontent , and it was then that Mme Rabot fell ill . 
A nurse was put in charge of her , but Helene found a way to get rid of her . 
Helene had no love for his child . 
The child had a horror of the servant , because she was dirty and took snuff . 
In consequence Helene had a spite against the boy . 
Helene had never been seen eating any of the dishes prepared for the family , and even insisted on keeping certain of the kitchen dishes for her own use . 
At the request of his father in law Helene had gone to get a bottle of violet syrup from the pharmacist . 
The bottle was not capped . 
His father in law thought the syrup had gone bad , because it was as red as mulberry syrup , and refused to give it to his daughter . 
The bottle was returned to the pharmacist , who remarked that the colour of the syrup had changed , and that he did not recognize it as his own . 
Mme Rabot having corroborated her husband's evidence , and told of Helene's bad temper , thieving , and disorderliness , Dr Vincent Guyot , of Rennes , was called . 
Dr Guyot described the illness of the boy Albert and its result . 
He then went on to describe the illness of Mme Rabot . 
He and his confreres had attributed her sickness to the fact that she was enceinte , and to the effect of her child's death upon her while in that condition . 
A miscarriage of a distressing nature confirmed the first prognosis . 
But later he and his confreres saw reason to change their minds . 
He believed the boy had been poisoned , though he could not be certain . 
The mother , he was convinced , had been the victim of an attempt at poisoning , an opinion which found certainty in the case of Mme Briere . 
If Mme Rabot's pregnancy went some way in explaining her illness there was nothing of this in the illness of her mother . 
The explanation of everything was in repeated dosing of an arsenical substance . 
The witness had also attended Mme Roussell , of the Bout du Monde hotel . 
He had also looked after Perrotte Mace . 
Here also he had had doubts of the nature of the malady at one time he had suspected pregnancy , a suspicion for which there were good grounds . 
But the symptoms that later developed were not consistent with the first diagnosis . 
When Perrotte died he and M. Revault , his confrere , thought the cause of death would be seen as poison in an autopsy . 
But the post mortem was rejected by the parents . 
His feeling to day was that Mme Roussell's paralysis was due to arsenical dosage , and that Perrotte had died of poisoning . 
Helene , speaking to him of Perrotte , had said , She's a chest subject . 
She'll never get better ! '' And she had used the same phrase , never get better , '' with regard to little Rabot . 
M. Morio , the pharmacist of Rennes from whom the violet syrup was bought , said that Helene had often complained to him about Mme Roussell . 
During the illness of the Rabot boy she had said that the child was worse than anyone imagined , and that he would never recover . 
In the matter of the violet syrup he agreed it had come back to him looking red . 
The bottle had been put to one side , but its contents had been thrown away , and he had therefore been unable to experiment with it . 
He had found since , however , that arsenic in powder form did not turn violet syrup red , though possibly arsenic in solution with boiling water might produce the effect . 
The change seen in the syrup brought back from M. Rabot's was not to be accounted for by such fermentation as the mere warmth of the hand could bring about . 
Several witnesses , interrupted by denials and explanations from the accused , testified to having heard Helene say that neither the Rabot boy nor his mother would recover . 
The evidence of M. Roussell , of the Bout du Monde hotel , touched on the illnesses of his mother and Perrotte . 
He knew nothing of the food prepared by Helene nor had the idea of poison occurred to him until her arrest . 
Helene's detestable character , her quarrels with other servants , and , above all , the thefts of wine he had found her out in were the sole causes of her dismissal . 
He had noticed that Helene never ate with the other domestics . 
She always found an excuse for not doing so . 
She said she had stomach trouble and could not hold down her food . 
The Veuve Roussell had to be helped into court by her son . 
She dealt with her own illness and with the death of Perrotte . 
Her illness did not come on until she had scolded Helene for her bad ways . 
Dr Revault , confrere of Guyot , regretted the failure to perform a post mortem on the body of Perrotte . 
He had said to Roussell that if Perrotte's illness was analogous to cholera it was , nevertheless , not that disease . 
He believed it was due to a poison . 
The President Chemical analysis has proved the presence of arsenic in the viscera of Perrotte . 
The service Helene gave was excellent . 
She nursed Perrotte perfectly , but said it was in vain , because the doctors were mishandling the disease . 
She told me one day that she was tired of service , and that her one wish was to retire . 
'' Did you attach a certain idea to the confidence about retiring ? '' No ! '' Andre replied energetically . 
When you came back , did Helene take good care of you ? '' She gave me bouillon every morning to build me up . 
'' The bouillon she gave you did you no harm ? '' On the contrary , it did me a lot of good . 
'' Wasn't the accused jealous of Perrotte that good looking girl who gave you so much of her favour ? '' In her life Perrotte was a good girl . 
She never was out of sorts for a moment never rubbed one the wrong way . 
'' Didn't Helene say to you that Perrotte would never recover ? '' Yes , she said that . 
She's a lost woman , she said the doctors are going the wrong way with the disease . 
All the same , '' Andre went on , Helene never ate with us . 
She worked night and day , but ate in secret , I believe . 
Anyhow , a friend of mine told me he'd once seen her eating a crust of bread , and chewing some other sort of food at the same time . 
As for me I don't know but I don't think you can live without eating . 
'' I couldn't keep down what I ate , '' Helene interposed . 
I took some bouillon here and there sometimes a mouthful of bread nothing in secret . 
I never thought of Andre in marriage not him more than another . 
That was all a joke . 
At the bedside Helene cried , Ah ! What can I do that will save you , my poor Perrotte ? '' When Perrotte was dying she wanted to ask Helene's pardon . 
Embracing the dying girl , the accused replied , Ah ! There's no need for that , my poor Perrotte . 
I know you didn't mean anything . 
'' A witness telling of soup Helene had made for Perrotte , which the girl declared to have been poisoned , it was asked what happened to the remainder of it . 
The President passed the question to Helene , who said she had thrown it into the hearth . 
IV The most complete and important testimony in the trial was given by M. Theophile Bidard , professor to the law faculty of Rennes . 
The facts he had to bring forward , he said , had taken no significance in his mind until the last of them transpired . 
He would have to go back into the past to trace them in their proper order . 
He recalled the admission of Helene to his domestic staff and the good recommendations on which he had engaged her . 
From the first Helene proved herself to have plenty of intelligence , and he had believed that her intelligence was combined with goodness of heart . 
This was because he had heard that by her work she was supporting two small children , as well as her poor old mother , who had no other means of sustenance . 
Nevertheless , said M. Bidard , Helene was not long in his household before her companion , Rose Tessier , began to suffer in plenty from the real character of Helene Jegado . 
Rose had had a fall , an accident which had left her with pains in her back . 
There were no very grave symptoms but Helene prognosticated dire results . 
Next day Rose complained to witness , who took his domestics to task . 
Helene pretended it was the farm boy who had perpetrated the bad joke . 
She then declared that she herself had heard some one give a loud knock . 
I thought , '' she said , that I was hearing the call for poor Rose . 
'' On Sunday , the rd of November , , M. Bidard , who had been in the country , returned to Rennes . 
After dinner that day , a meal which she had taken in common with Helene , Rose was seized with violent sickness . 
Helene lavished on her the most motherly attention . 
She made tea , and sat up the night with the invalid . 
In the morning , though she still felt ill , Rose got up . 
Helene made tea for her again . 
Rose once more was sick , violently , and her sickness endured until the witness himself had administered copious draughts of tea prepared by himself . 
Rose passed a fairly good night , and Dr Pinault , who was called in , saw nothing more in the sickness than some nervous affection . 
But on the day of the th the vomitings returned . 
Helene exclaimed , The doctors do not understand the disease . 
Rose is going to die ! '' The prediction seemed foolish as far as immediate appearances were concemed , for Rose had an excellent pulse and no trace of fever . 
In the night between Tuesday and Wednesday the patient was calm , but on the morning of Wednesday she had vomitings with intense stomach pains . 
She drew her last breath on the Thursday evening at half past five . 
During her whole illness , added M. Bidard , Rose was attended by none save Helene and himself . 
In Rose the poor woman had lost a beloved child and her sole support . 
Helene's grief seemed to equal the mother's . 
Tears were ever in her eyes , and her voice trembled . 
Her expressions of regret almost seemed to be exaggerated . 
There was a moment when the witness had his doubts . 
It was on the way back from the cemetery . 
For a fleeting instant he thought that the shaking of Helene's body was more from glee than sorrow , and he momentarily accused her in his mind of hypocrisy . 
But in the following days Helene did nothing but talk of that poor Rose , '' and M. Bidard , before her persistence , could only believe he had been mistaken . 
Ah ! '' Helene said . 
I loved her as I did that poor girl who died in the Bout du Monde . 
'' The witness wanted to find some one to take Rose's place . 
Helene tried to dissuade him . 
Never mind another femme de chambre , '' she said . 
'' M. Bidard contented himself with engaging another girl , Francoise Huriaux , strong neither in intelligence nor will , but nevertheless a sweet little creature . 
Not many days passed before Helene began to make the girl unhappy . 
It's a lazy bones , '' Helene told the witness . 
She does not earn her keep . 
M. Bidard shut her up . 
That was his affair , he said . 
Francoise meantime conceived a fear of Helene . 
She was so scared of the older woman that she obeyed all her orders without resistance . 
The witness , going into the kitchen one day , found Helene eating her soup at one end of the table , while Francoise dealt with hers at the other extreme . 
He told Helene that in future she was to serve the repast in common , on a tablecloth , and that it was to include dessert from his table . 
This order seemed to vex Helene extremely . 
That girl seems to live without eating , '' she said , and she never seems to sleep . 
'' One day the witness noticed that the hands and face of Francoise were puffy . 
He spoke to Helene about it , who became angry . 
She accused her companion of getting up in the night to make tea , so wasting the sugar , and she swore she would lock the sugar up . 
M. Bidard told her to do nothing of the sort . 
He said if Francoise had need of sugar she was to have it . 
All right I see , '' Helene replied sullenly , obviously put out . 
The swelling M. Bidard had seen in the face and hands of Francoise attacked her legs , and all service became impossible for the girl . 
The witness was obliged to entrust Helene with the job of finding another chambermaid . 
It was then that she brought Rosalie Sarrazin to him . 
A very good girl , '' she said . 
If her dress is poor it is because she gives everything to her mother . 
'' The words , M. Bidard commented , were said by Helene with remarkable sincerity . 
It was said that Helene had no moral sense . 
It seemed to him , from her expressions regarding that poor girl , who , like herself , devoted herself to her mother , that Helene was far from lacking in that quality . 
Engaging Rosalie , the witness said to his new domestic , You will find yourself dealing with a difficult companion . 
Do not let her be insolent to you . 
You must assert yourself from the start . 
I do not want Helene to rule you as she ruled Francoise . 
'' At the same time he repeated his order regarding the service of the kitchen meals . 
Helene manifested a sullen opposition . 
Who ever heard of tablecloths for the servants ? '' she said . 
It is ridiculous ! '' In the first days the tenderness between Helene and the new girl was quite touching . 
But circumstance arose to end the harmony . 
On the rd of May the witness told Helene that he would like her to give him an account of expenses . 
The request made Helene angry , and increased her spite against the more educated Rosalie . 
Helene attempting to order Rosalie about , the latter laughingly told her , M. Bidard pays me to obey him . 
If I have to obey you also you'll have to pay me too . 
'' From that time Helene conceived an aversion from the girl . 
About the time when Helene began to be sour to Rosalie she herself was seized by vomitings . 
She complained to Mlle Bidard , a cousin of the witness , that Rosalie neglected her . 
At the beginning of June the witness said to Helene , If this continues you'll have to look for another place . 
'' That's it ! '' Helene yelled , in reply . 
Because of that girl I'll have to go ! '' On the th of June M. Bidard gave Helene definite notice . 
It was to take effect on St John's Day . 
At his evening meal he was served with a roast and some green peas . 
These last he did not touch . 
In spite of his prohibition against her serving at table , it was Helene who brought the peas in . 
How's this ? '' she said to him . 
You haven't eaten your green peas and them so good ! '' Saying this , she snatched up the dish and carried it to the kitchen . 
Rosalie ate some of the peas . 
No sooner had she taken a few spoonfuls , however , than she grew sick , and presently was seized by vomiting . 
She said she was out of sorts and wanted none . 
The witness did not hear of these facts until next day . 
He wanted to see the remainder of the peas , but they could not be found . 
Rosalie still kept being sick , and he bade her go and see his doctor , M. Boudin . 
Helene , on a sudden amiable to Rosalie where she had been sulky , offered to go with her . 
Dr Boudin prescribed an emetic , which produced good effects . 
On the th of June Rosalie seemed to have recovered . 
In the meantime a cook presented herself at his house to be engaged in place of Helene . 
The latter was acquainted with the new comer . 
A vegetable soup had been prescribed for Rosalie , and this Helene prepared . 
The convalescent ate some , and at once fell prey to violent sickness . 
That same day Helene came in search of the witness . 
You're never going to dismiss me for that young girl ? '' she demanded angrily . 
He said that if she would promise to keep the peace with Rosalie he would let her stay on . 
Helene seemed to be satisfied , and behaved better to Rosalie , who began to mend again . 
M. Bidard went into the country on the st of June , taking Rosalie with him . 
They returned on the nd . 
The witness himself went to the pharmacy to get a final purgative of Epsom salts , which had been ordered for Rosalie by the doctor . 
This the witness himself divided into three portions , each of which he dissolved in separate glasses of whey prepared by Helene . 
The witness administered the first dose . 
She was extremely ill on the night of the nd rd , and Helene returned to misgivings about the skill of the doctors . 
She kept repeating , Ah ! Rosalie will die ! I tell you she will die ! '' On the day of the rd she openly railed against them . 
M. Boudin had prescribed leeches and blisters . 
Look at that now , monsieur , '' Helene said to the witness . 
Dr Boudin had said the invalid might have gooseberry syrup with seltzer water . 
Two glasses of the mixture given to Rosalie by her mother seemed to do the girl good , but after the third glass she did not want any more . 
Helene had given her this third glass . 
The invalid said to the witness , I don't know what Helene has put into my drink , but it burns me like red hot iron . 
'' Struck by those symptoms , '' added M. Bidard , I questioned Helene at once . 
It has not been given me more than twice in my life to see Helene's eyes . 
I saw at that moment the look she flung at Rosalie . 
It was the look of a wild beast , a tiger cat . 
At that moment my impulse was to go to my work room for a cord , and to tie her up and drag her to the justiciary . 
But one reflection stopped me . 
What was this I was about to do disgrace a woman on a mere suspicion ? I hesitated . 
I did not know whether I had before me a poisoner or a woman of admirable devotion . 
'' The witness enlarged on the tortures of mind he experienced during the night , but said he found reason to congratulate himself on not having given way to his first impulse . 
On the morning of the th Helene came running to him , all happiness , to say that Rosalie was better . 
Three days later Rosalie seemed to be nearly well , so much so that M. Bidard felt he might safely go into the country . 
Next day , however , he was shocked by the news that Rosalie was as ill as ever . 
He hastened to return to Rennes . 
On the night of the th th the sickness continued with intensity . 
Every two hours the invalid was given calming medicine prescribed by Dr Boudin . 
Each time the sickness redoubled in violence . 
Believing it was a case of worms , the witness got out of bed , and substituted for the medicine a strong infusion of garlic . 
This stopped the sickness temporarily . 
At six in the morning it began again . 
The witness then ran to Dr Pinault's , but met the doctor in the street with his confrere , Dr Guyot . 
To the two doctors M. Bidard expressed the opinion that there were either worms in the intestines or else the case was one of poisoning . 
I have thought that , '' said Dr Pinault , remembering the case of the other girl . 
'' The doctors went back with M. Bidard to his house . 
Magnesia was administered in a strong dose . 
But it was too late . 
Until that day the witness's orders that the ejected matter from the invalid should be conserved had been ignored . 
The moment a vessel was dirty Helene took it away and cleaned it . 
But now the witness took the vessels himself , and locked them up in a cupboard for which he alone had the key . 
His action seemed to disturb Helene Jegado . 
From this he judged that she had intended destroying the poison she had administered . 
From that time Rosalie was put into the care of her mother and a nurse . 
Helene tried hard to be rid of the two women , accusing them of tippling to the neglect of the invalid . 
I will sit up with her , '' she said to the witness . 
The witness did not want her to do so , but he could not prevent her joining the mother . 
In the meantime Rosalie suffered the most dreadful agonies . 
She could neither sit up nor lie down , but threw herself about with great violence . 
During this time Helene was constantly coming and going about her victim . 
She had not the courage , however , to watch her victim die . 
At five in the morning she went out to market , leaving the mother alone with her child . 
The poor mother , worn out with her exertions , also went out , to ask for help from friends . 
Rosalie died in the presence of the witness at seven o'clock in the morning of the st of July . 
It is all over , '' said the witness . 
Helene's first move was to look for the vessels containing the ejections of the invalid to throw them out . 
These were green in hue . 
M. Bidard stopped her , and locked the vessels up . 
That same day justice was invoked . 
M. Bidard's deposition had held his hearers spellbound for over an hour and a half . 
He had believed , he added finally , that , in spite of her criminal conduct , Helene at least was a faithful servant . 
She had put his cellar to pillage , and in her chest they had found many things belonging to him , besides a diamond belonging to his daughter and her wedding ring . 
The President questioned Helene on the points of this important deposition . 
It had not been she who was jealous of Rosalie , but Rosalie who had been jealous of her . 
She had given the two girls all the nursing she could , with no intention but that of helping them to get better . 
I defy anybody to say they saw me give arsenic . 
'' The Procureur General invited M. Bidard to say what amount of intelligence he had found in Helene . 
M. Bidard declared that he had never seen in any of his servants an intelligence so acute or subtle . 
He held her to be a phenomenon in hypocrisy . 
He put forward a fact which he had neglected to mention in his deposition . 
It might throw light on the character of the accused . 
Francoise had a dress hanging up to dry in the mansard . 
Helene went up to the garret above this , made a hole in the ceiling , and dropped oil of vitriol on her companion's dress to burn it . 
Dr Pinault gave an account of Rosalie's illness , and spoke of the suspicions he and his colleagues had had of poisoning . 
It was a crime , however , for which there seemed to be no motive . 
The poisoner could hardly be M. Bidard , and as far as suspicion might touch the cook , she seemed to be lavish in her care of the patient . 
It was not until the very last that he , with his colleagues , became convinced of poison . 
Rosalie dead , the justiciary went to M. Bidard's . 
The cupboards were searched carefully . 
The potion which Rosalie had thought to be mixed with burning stuff was still there , just sampled . 
It was put into a bottle and capped . 
An autopsy could not now be avoided . 
It was held next day . 
M. Pinault gave an account of the results . 
Most of the organs were in a normal condition , and such slight alterations as could be seen in others would not account for death . 
It was concluded that death had been occasioned by poison . 
The autopsy on the exhumed body of Perrotte Mace was inconclusive , owing to the condition of adipocere . 
Dr Guyot spoke of the case of Francoise Huriaux , and was now sure she had been given poison in small doses . 
Dr Boudin described the progress of Rosalie's illness . 
He was in no doubt , like his colleagues , that she had been poisoned . 
The depositions of various witnesses followed . 
A laundress said that Helene's conduct was to be explained by jealousy . 
She could not put up with any supervision , but wanted full control ofthe household and ofthe money . 
Francoise Huriaux said Helene was angry because M. Bidard would not have her as sole domestic . 
She had resented Francoise's being engaged . 
The witness noticed that she became ill whenever she ate food prepared for her by Helene . 
When she did not eat Helene was angry but threw out the food Francoise refused . 
Several witnesses testified to the conduct of Helene towards Rosalie Sarrazin during her fatal illness . 
Helene was constant , self sacrificing , in her attention to the invalid . 
One incident , however , was described by a witness which might indicate that Helene's solicitude was not altogether genuine . 
Rosalie's mother asked Helene to place a pillow for her . 
Ma foi ! '' Helene replied . 
You're beginning to weary me . 
Helene said to this witness , M. Bidard has gone into the country with his housemaid . 
Everything SHE does is perfect . 
They leave me here to work if I want to , eat my bread dry that's my reward . 
But the housemaid will go before I do . 
Although M. Bidard has given me my notice , he'll have to order me out before I'll go . 
Look ! '' Helene added . 
Here's the bed of the ugly housemaid in a room not too far from the master's . 
Me they stick me up in the mansard ! '' Later , when Rosalie was very ill , Helene pretended to be grieved . 
You can't be so very sorry , '' the witness remarked you've said plenty that was bad about the girl . 
'' Helene vigorously denounced the testimony as all lies . 
The woman had never been near Bidard's house . 
The pharmacist responsible for dispensing the medicines given to Rosalie was able to show that arsenic could not have got into them by mistake on his part . 
At the hearing of the trial on the th of December Dr Pinault was asked to tell what happened when the emissions of Rosalie Sarrazin were being transferred for analysis . 
As we were carrying out the operation Helene came in , and it was plain that she was put out of countenance . 
We were in my daughter's room , where nobody ever came . 
When Helene came to the door I was surprised . 
There was no explanation for her appearance except that she was inquisitive . 
She seemed to be disturbed at not finding the emissions by the bed of the dead girl , and it was no doubt to find them that she came to the room . 
I had been given a funnel to wash . 
I was bringing it back . 
Helene , with her usual cleverness , is making the most of a fact . 
She had already appeared when she was given the funnel . 
And to get rid of her I said , Here , Helene , take this away and wash it . 
'' The accused persisted in denying M. Bidard's version of the incident . 
In the case of Rosalie they had also examined the vomitings . 
The tube showed a definite arsenic ring . 
Tests on the vomit gave the same result . 
The poisoning of Perrotte Mace had also been accomplished by small doses . 
Arsenic was found after the strictest tests , which obviated all possibility that the substance could have come from the ground in which the body was interred . 
In the case of Rose Tessier the tests yielded a huge amount of arsenic . 
Rose had died after an illness of only four days . 
The large amount of arsenic indicated a brutal and violent poisoning , in which the substance could not be excreted in the usual way . 
The President then addressed the accused on this evidence . 
She alone had watched near all three of the victims , and against all three she had motives of hate . 
Poisoning was established beyond all doubt . 
Who was the poisoner if not she , Helene Jegado ? Helene Frankly , I have nothing to reproach myself with . 
I gave them only what came from the pharmacies on the orders of the doctors . 
, the speech for the defence was made . 
M. Dorange was very eloquent , but he had a hopeless case . 
The defence he put up was that Helene was irresponsible , but the major part of the advocate's speech was taken up with a denouncement of capital punishment . 
It was a barbarous anachronism , a survival which disgraced civilization . 
The President summed up and addressed the jury Cast a final scrutiny , gentlemen of the jury , '' he said , at the matter brought out by these debates . 
Consult yourselves in the calm and stillness of your souls . 
If it is not proved to you that Helene Jegado is responsible for her actions you will acquit her . 
But if you consider her culpable , if you cannot see in her either debility of spirit or an absence or feebleness of moral sense , you will do your duty with firmness . 
You will remember that for justice to be done chastisement will not alone suffice , but that punishment must be in proportion to the offence . 
'' The President then read over his questions for the jury , and that body retired . 
After deliberations which occupied an hour and a half the jury came back with a verdict of guilty on all points . 
The Procureur asked for the penalty of death . 
Helene Jegado , have you anything to say upon the application of the penalty ? HELENE . 
No , Monsieur le President , I am innocent . 
I am resigned to everything . 
I would rather die innocent than live in guilt . 
You have judged me , but God will judge you all . 
All those false witnesses who have come here to destroy me . 
In a voice charged with emotion the President pronounced the sentence condemning Helene Jegado to death . 
An appeal was put forward on her behalf , but was rejected . 
The two officials took no notice of this indirect confession of her own guilt , and the sentence was carried out . 
The Procureur of Rennes , hearing of this confession , took the trouble to search out the woman named in it . 
She turned out to be a very old woman of such a pious and kindly nature that the people about her talked of her as the saint . 
'' It were superfluous to embark on analysis of the character of Helene Jegado . 
The only possible point at which I may have gone astray in my calculations is in respect of the deaths at Guern . 
The accounts , nevertheless , insist more than once that between and Helene put away twenty three persons . 
If she managed only six at Guern , that total should be twenty two . 
From she accounted for Albert Rabot , the infant Ozanne , Perrotte Mace , Rose Tessier , and Rosalie Sarrazin five . 
We need no chartered accountant to certify our figures if we make the total twenty eight . 
, puts Helene Jegado almost on a level with the sanctimonious Dr Pritchard perhaps quite on a level with that nauseating villain . 
And very properly , since the law held the extreme penalty for such as she , Helene went to the scaffold . 
Her judges might have taken the sentimental view that she was abnormal , though not mad in the common acceptation of the word . 
But possibly they saw no social or Civic advantage in preserving her , so anti social as she was . 
They are a frugal nation , the French . 
VI Having made you sup on horror a la Bretonne , or Continental fashion , I am now to give you a savoury from England . 
This lest you imagine that France , or the Continent , has a monopoly in wholesale poison . 
Rainton , in Durham , was the place where , in Mary Ann found mortal existence . 
At the age of fifteen or sixteen she began to earn her own living as a nursemaid , an occupation which may appear to have given her a distaste for infantile society . 
At the age of nineteen and at Newcastle she married William Mowbray , a collier , and went with him to live in Cornwall . 
Here the couple remained for some years . 
It was a fruitful marriage . 
Mary bore William five children in Cornwall , but , unfortunately , four of the children died suddenly . 
With the remaining child the pair moved to Mary's native county . 
They had hardly settled down in their new home when the fifth child also died . 
It died , curiously enough , of the ailment which had supposedly carried off the other four children gastric fever . 
Not long after the death of this daughter the Mowbrays removed to Hendon , Sunderland , and here a sixth child was born . 
It proved to be of as vulnerable a constitution as its brothers and sisters , for it lasted merely a year . 
His widow found a job at the local infirmary , and there she met George Ward . 
She married Mr Ward , but not for long . 
In a few months after the nuptials George Ward followed his predecessor , Mowbray , from an illness that in symptoms and speed of fatality closely resembled William's . 
We next hear of Mary as housekeeper to a widower named Robinson , whose wife she soon became . 
Robinson had five children by his former wife . 
They all died in the year that followed his marriage with Mary Ann , and all of gastric fever . 
The second Mrs Robinson had two children by this third husband . 
Both of these perished within a few weeks of their birth . 
Mary Ann's mother fell ill , though not seriously . 
Mary Ann volunteered to nurse the old lady . 
On her return to her own home , or soon after it , Mary was accused by her husband of robbing him . 
She thought it wise to disappear out of Robinson's life , a deprivation which probably served to prolong it . 
Under her old name of Mowbray , and by means of testimonials which on later investigation proved spurious , Mary Ann got herself a housekeeping job with a doctor in practice at Spennymore . 
Falling into error regarding what was the doctor's and what was her own , and her errors being too patent , she was dismissed . 
Wallbottle is the scene of Mary Ann's next activities . 
Here she made the acquaintance of a married man with a sick wife . 
His name was Frederick Cotton . 
Soon after he had met Mary Ann his wife died . 
She died of consumption , with no more trace of gastric fever than is usual in her disease . 
The marriage which Mary Ann brought off with Frederick Cotton at Newcastle anticipated the birth of a son by a mere three months . 
With two of Cotton's children by his former marriage , and with the infant son , the pair went to live at West Auckland . 
Here Cotton died and the three children and a lodger by the curious name of Natrass . 
Nine of these were the fruit of her own loins . 
One of them was the mother who gave her birth . 
Retribution fell upon her through her twenty fourth victim , Charles Edward Cotton , her infant child . 
The child , it was shown , was an obstacle to the marriage which she was already contemplating her fifth marriage , and , most likely , bigamous at that . 
The doctor who had attended the child refused a death certificate . 
In post mortem examination arsenic was found in the child's body . 
She was brought to trial in the early part of at Durham Assizes . 
As said already , she was found guilty and sentenced to death , the sentence being executed upon her in Durham Gaol in March of that year . 
Before she died she made the following remarkable statement I have been a poisoner , but not intentionally . 
'' It is believed that she secured the poison from a vermicide in which arsenic was mixed with soft soap . 
What advantage Mary Ann Cotton derived from her poisonings can have been but small , almost as small as that gained by Helene Jegado . 
With her all o'er teeming loins , '' this woman , Hecuba in no other particular , must have been a very sow were this her motive . 
But I have come almost by accident on the word I need to compare Mary Ann Cotton with Jegado . 
The Bretonne , creeping about her native province leaving death in her track , with her piety , her hypocrisy , her enjoyment of her own cruelty , is sinister and repellent . 
But Mary Ann , moving from mate to mate and farrowing from each , then savaging both them and the litter , has a musty sowishness that the Bretonne misses . 
But we needn't , we islanders , do any Jingo business in setting Mary Ann against Helene . 
I tie their cases together for reasons which cannot be apparent until both their stories are told and which may not be so apparent even then . 
That is not to say I claim those reasons to be profound , recondite , or settled in the deeps of psychology . 
The matter is , I would not have you believe that I join their cases because of similarities that are superficial . 
My hope is that you will find , as I do , a linking which , while neither profound nor superficial , is curious at least . 
It was a flourishing establishment , typical of the Paris of that time , and its proprietors were people of decent standing among their neighbours . 
The pair had been married for thirteen years , and their union had been blessed by five children . 
Boursier , a middle aged man of average height , but very stout of build and asthmatically short of neck , was recognized as a keen trader . 
He did most of his trading away from the house in the Rue de la Paix , and paid frequent visits , sometimes entire months in duration , to Le Havre and Bordeaux . 
It is nowhere suggested that those visits were made on any occasion other than that of business . 
M. Boursier spent his days away from the house , and his evenings with friends . 
It does not anywhere appear that Mme Boursier objected to her husband's absenteeism . 
She was a capable woman , rather younger than her husband , and of somewhat better birth and education . 
She seems to have been content with , if she did not exclusively enjoy , having full charge of the business in the shop . 
Dark , white of tooth , not particularly pretty , this woman of thirty six was , for her size , almost as stout as her husband . 
On the morning of the th of June , which would be a Sunday , Boursier was called by the cook to take his usual dejeuner , consisting of chicken broth with rice . 
He did not like the taste of it , but ate it . 
Within a little time he was violently sick , and became so ill that he had to go to bed . 
The doctor , who was called almost immediately , saw no cause for alarm , but prescribed mild remedies . 
As the day went on , however , the sickness increased in violence . 
Dr Bordot became anxious when he saw the patient again in the evening . 
He applied leeches and mustard poultices . 
Something gastric , it was evident . 
They did what they could , though working , as it were , in the dark . 
The patient was no better next day . 
As night came on he was worse than ever . 
A medical student named Toupie was enlisted as nurse and watcher , and sat with the sufferer through the night but to no purpose . 
At four o'clock in the morning of the Tuesday , the th , there came a crisis in the illness of Boursier , and he died . 
The grief exhibited by Mme Boursier , so suddenly widowed , was just what might have been expected in the circumstances from a woman of her station . 
Rumour , meantime , had got to work . 
There were circumstances about the sudden death of Boursier which the busybodies of the environs felt they might regard as suspicious . 
For some time before the death of the epicier there had been hanging about the establishment a Greek called Kostolo . 
But such , no less , had been the Greek's position with the household . 
So much so that , although Kostolo had no money and apparently no prospects , Boursier himself had asked him to be godfather to a niece . 
It is perhaps to the rather loud mouthed habits of this Kostolo that the birth of suspicion among the neighbours may be attributed . 
On the death of Boursier he had remarked that the nails of the corpse were blue a colour , he said , which was almost a certain indication of poisoning . 
Now , the two doctors who had attended Boursier , having failed to account for his illness , were inclined to suspect poisoning as the cause of his death . 
For this reason they had suggested an autopsy , a suggestion rejected by the widow . 
Her rejection of the idea aroused no immediate suspicion of her in the minds of the doctors . 
He dropped hints of a projected marriage . 
Upon this the neighbours took to remembering how quickly Kostolo's friendship with the Boursier family had sprung up , and how frequently he had visited the establishment . 
His nursing activities were remembered also . 
And it was noticed that his visits to the Boursier house still went on it was whispered that he visited the Veuve Boursier in her bedroom . 
The circumstances in which Boursier had fallen ill were well known . 
Nobody , least of all Mme Boursier or Kostolo , had taken any trouble to conceal them . 
Anybody who liked to ask either Mme Boursier or the Greek about the soup could have a detailed story at once . 
All the neighbourhood knew it . 
And since the Veuve Boursier's story is substantially the same as other versions it may as well be dealt with here and now . 
M. Boursier , said his widow , tasted his soup that Sunday morning . 
What a taste ! '' he said to the cook , Josephine . 
Mme Boursier took a spoonful of it herself , she said , and saw nothing the matter with it . 
Whereupon her husband , saying that if it was all right he ought to eat it , took several spoonfuls more . 
The poor man , '' said his widow , always had a bad taste in his mouth , and he could not face his soup . 
'' Then , she explained , he became very sick , and brought up what little of the soup he had taken , together with flots de bile . 
The two doctors were summoned by the Procureur General , who questioned them closely regarding Boursier's illness . 
To the mind of the official everything pointed to suspicion of the widow . 
Word of the growing suspicion against her reached Mme Boursier , and she now hastened to ask the magistrates for an exhumation and a post mortem examination . 
This did not avert proceedings by the Procureur . 
It was already known that she had refused the autopsy suggested by the two doctors , and it was stated that she had hurried on the burial . 
Kostolo and the Widow Boursier were called before the Juge d'instruction . 
He is of the gallery in which are Jingle and Montague Tigg , with this difference that he is rather more sordid than either . 
Brought before the Procureur du Roi , he impudently confessed that he had been , and still was , Mme Boursier's lover . 
He told the judge that in the lifetime of her husband Mme Boursier had visited him in his rooms several times , and that she had given him money unknown to her husband . 
Mme Boursier at first denied the adulterous intimacy with Kostolo , but the evidence in the hands of the Procureur was too much for her . 
She had partially to confess the truth of Kostolo's statement in this regard . 
She emphatically denied , however , that she had ever even thought of , let alone agreed to , marriage with the Greek . 
These confessions , together with the information which had come to him from other investigations , served to increase the feeling of the Procureur that Boursier's death called for probing . 
He issued an exhumation order , and on the st of July an autopsy on the body of Boursier was carried out by MM . 
Orfila and Gardy , doctors and professors of the Paris faculty of medicine . 
On the nd of August the same two professors , aided by a third , M. Barruel , carried out a further examination of the body . 
Their testimony is highly technical . 
It is also rather revolting . 
, a gastric odour has been unavoidable in many of my pages perhaps too many . 
For that reason I shall refrain from quoting either in the original French or in translation more than a small part of the professors' report . 
I shall , however , make a lay shot on the evidence it supplies . 
Boursier's interior generally was in foul condition , which is not to be explained by any ingestion of arsenic , but which suggests chronic and morbid pituitousness . 
The marvel is that the man's digestion functioned at all . 
This insanitary condition , however , was taken by the professors , as it were , in their stride . 
They concentrated on some slight traces of intestinal inflammation . 
One observed , '' their report went on , about the end of the ileum some grains of a whitish appearance and rather stubbornly attached . 
These grains , being removed , showed all the characteristics of white arsenic oxide . 
Put upon glowing charcoal they volatilized , giving off white smoke and a garlic odour . 
that the intestinal canal yielded a quantity of arsenic oxide sufficient to have produced that inflammation and to have caused death . 
The question now was forward as to where the arsenic found in the body had come from . 
In addition , he had bought prepared rat poison . 
Only a part of those substances had been used . 
The remaining portions could not be found about the shop , nor could Mme Boursier make any suggestions for helping the search . 
She declared she had never seen any arsenic about the house at all . 
The pair were brought to trial on the th of November , , before the Seine Assize Court , M. Hardouin presiding . 
The prosecution was conducted by the AvocatGeneral , M. de Broe . 
Maitre Couture defended Mme Boursier . 
The case created great excitement , not only in Paris , but throughout the country . 
Another poisoning case had not long before this occupied the minds of the public very greatly that of the hypocritical Castaing for the murder of Auguste Ballet . 
Indeed , there had been a lot of poisoning going on in French society about this period . 
Political and religious controversy , moreover , was rife . 
The populace were in a mood either to praise extravagantly or just as extravagantly to condemn . 
It happened that rumour convinced them of the guilt of the Veuve Boursier and Kostolo , and the couple were condemned in advance . 
Such was the popular spite against Mme Boursier and Kostolo that , it is said , Maitre Couture at first refused the brief for the widow's defence . 
He had already made a success of his defence of a Mme Lavaillaut , accused of poisoning , and was much in demand in cases where women sought judicial separation from their husbands . 
People were calling him Providence for women . 
'' He did not want to be nicknamed Providence for poisoners . 
'' But Mme Boursier's case being more clearly presented to him he took up the brief . 
The accused were brought into court . 
Kostolo was about thirty years of age . 
He was tall , distinctly good looking in an exotic sort of way , with his dark hair , complexion , and flashing eyes . 
He carried himself grandly , and was elegandy clad in a frac noir . 
Not quite , as Army men were supposed once to say , the clean potato , it was easy enough to see that women of a kind would be his ready victims . 
It was plain , in the court , that Master Nicolas thought himself the hero of the occasion . 
There was none of this flamboyance about the Widow Boursier . 
She was dressed in complete mourning , and covered her face with a handkerchief . 
It was manifest that , in the phrase of the crime reporters , she felt her position keenly . 
'' The usual questions as to her name and condition she answered almost inaudibly , her voice choked with sobs . 
Kostolo , on the contrary , replied in organ tones . 
He said that he was born in Constantinople , and that he had no estate . 
The acte d'accusation was read . 
The cook girl , Josephine Blin , had prepared the potage au riz in the kitchen , using the small iron pan that it was her wont to employ . 
Having made the soup , she conveyed it in its terrine to a small secretaire in the dining room . 
This secretaire stood within the stretch of an arm from the door of the comptoir in which Mme Boursier usually worked . 
According to custom , Josephine had divided the potage in two portions one for Boursier and the other for the youngest child . 
The youngster and she had eaten the second portion between them , and neither had experienced any ill effects . 
Josephine told her master that the soup was ready . 
He came at her call , but did not eat the soup at once , being otherwise occupied . 
The soup stood on the secretaire for about fifteen minutes before Boursier started to eat it . 
This Mme Boursier refused , in spite of the insistence of the doctors . 
She refused , she said , in the interest of her children . 
Led by rumours of the bluish stains almost certain indications of a violent death the authorities , said the accusation , ordered an exhumation and autopsy . 
Arsenic was found in the body . 
It was clear that Boursier , ignorant , as he was , of his wife's bad conduct , had not killed himself . 
This was a point that the widow had vainly attempted , during the process of instruction , to maintain . 
'' Called before the Juge d'instruction , Henri Clap and Charles had concurred in denying this . 
The accusation maintained that the whole attitude of Mme Boursier proved her a poisoner . 
As soon as her husband became sick she had taken the dish containing the remains of the rice soup , emptied it into a dirty vessel , and passed water through the dish . 
Then she had ordered Blin to clean it , which the latter did , scrubbing it out with sand and ashes . 
Asked regarding the people who frequented the house she had mentioned all the friends of Boursier , but neglected to speak of Kostolo . 
Later she had said she never had been intimate with the Greek . 
But Kostolo , barefaced enough for anything , '' had openly declared the nature of his relations with her . 
She had given Kostolo the run of her purse , the accusation declared , though she denied the fact , insisting that what she had given him had been against his note . 
There was only one conclusion , however . 
Mme Boursier , knowing the poverty of her paramour , had paid him as her cicisbeo , squandering upon him her children's patrimony . 
The accusation then dealt with the supposed project of marriage , and declared that in it there was sufficient motive for the crime . 
Kostolo was Mme Boursier's accomplice beyond any doubt . 
He had acted as nurse to the invalid , administering drinks and medicines to him . 
He had had full opportunity for poisoning the grocer . 
Penniless , out of work , it would be a good thing for him if Boursier was eliminated . 
He had been blatant in his visits to Mme Boursier after the death of the husband . 
Then followed the first questioning of the accused . 
Mme Boursier said she had kept tryst with Kostolo in the Champs Elysees . 
She admitted having been to his lodgings once . 
On the mention of the name of Mlle Riene , a mistress of Kostolo's , she said that the woman was partly in their confidence . 
She had gone with Mlle Riene twice to Kostolo's rooms . 
Once , she admitted , she had paid a visit to Versailles with Kostolo unknown to her husband . 
Asked if her husband had had any enemies , Mme Boursier said she knew of none . 
The questioning of Kostolo drew from him the admission that he had had a number of mistresses all at one time . 
He made no bones about his relations with them , nor about his relations with Mme Boursier . 
He was quite blatant about it , and seemed to enjoy the show he was putting up . 
Having airily answered a question in a way that left him without any reputation , he would sweep the court with his eyes , preening himself like a peacock . 
He was asked about a journey Boursier had proposed making . 
At what time had Boursier intended making the trip ? Before his death , '' Kostolo replied . 
The answer was unintentionally funny , but the Greek took credit for the amusement it created in court . 
He conceived himself a humorist , and the fact coloured all his subsequent answers . 
Kostolo said that he had called to see Boursier on the first day of his illness at three in the afternoon . 
He himself had insisted on helping to nurse the invalid . 
Mme Boursier had brought water , and he had given it to the sick man . 
After Boursier's death he had remarked on the blueness of the fingernails . 
He had then suspected that Boursier had died of poisoning . 
The loud murmurs that arose in court upon his blunt confession of having misconducted himself with Mme Boursier fifteen days after her husband's death seemed to evoke nothing but surprise in Kostolo . 
He was then asked if he had proposed marriage to Mme Boursier after Boursier's death . 
What ! '' he exclaimed , with a grin . 
Ask a woman with five children to marry me a woman I don't love ? '' Upon this answer Kostolo was taken to task by the President of the court . 
What could the Greek say in justification of such conduct ? Excuse me , please , everybody , '' Kostolo replied , unabashed . 
'' The murmurs evoked by the reply Kostolo treated with lofty disdain . 
He seemed to find his audience somewhat prudish . 
To further questioning he answered that he had never proposed marriage to the Veuve Boursier . 
Possibly something might have been said in fun . 
He knew , of course , that the late Boursier had made a lot of money . 
The cook , Josephine Blin , was called . 
At one time she had been suspect . 
Her version of the potage incidents , though generally in agreement with that of the accused widow , differed from it in two essential points . 
She said she had been in the same comptoir as her husband . 
Josephine declared that Mme Boursier had ordered her to clean the soup dish out with sand , but her mistress maintained she had bade the girl do no more than clean it . 
For the rest , Josephine thought about fifteen minutes elapsed before Boursier came to take the soup . 
During that time she had seen Mme Boursier writing and making up accounts . 
Toupie , the medical student , said he had nursed Boursier during the previous year . 
Boursier was then suffering much in the same way as he had appeared to suffer during his fatal illness . 
He had heard Mme Boursier consulting with friends about an autopsy , and her refusal had been on their advice . 
The doctors called were far from agreeing on the value of the experiments they had made . 
Orfila , afterwards to intervene in the much more universally notorious case of Mme Lafarge , stuck to his opinion of death by arsenic . 
But by then the Marsh technique had been evolved . 
Here , however , he based his opinion on experiments properly described as very equivocal '' and stuck to it . 
He was supported by a colleague named Lesieur . 
M. Gardy said he had observed that the greater part of the grains about the ileum , noted on the st of August , had disappeared next day . 
The analysis had been made with quantities too small . 
He now doubted greatly if the substance taken to be arsenic oxide would account for death . 
M. Barruel declared that from the glareous matter removed from the body only a grain of the supposed arsenic had been extracted , and that with difficulty . 
He had put the substance on glowing charcoal , but , in his opinion , the experiment was VERY EQUIVOCAL . 
It was at first believed that there was a big amount of arsenic , but he felt impelled to say that the substance noted was nothing other than small clusters of fat . 
The witness now refused to conclude , as he had concluded on the st of August , that enough poison had been in the body to cause death . 
It would almost seem that the medical evidence should have been enough to destroy the case for the prosecution , but other witnesses were called . 
Bailli , at one time a clerk to Boursier , said he had helped his patron to distribute arsenic and rat poison in the shop cellars . 
The unused portion of the arsenic had been put in a niche of a bottle rack . 
In view of evidence given by a subsequent witness Bailli's rather sudden recovery of memory might have been thought odd if a friend of his had not been able to corroborate his statement . 
The friend was one Rousselot , another grocer . 
He testified that he and Bailli had searched together . 
Both the poisons had been placed at the bottom of a bottle rack , and a plank had been nailed over them . 
In a stammering and rather confused fashion he attempted to explain that the vacillations of the witness Bailli had aroused his suspicions . 
He said that Bailli , who at first had been vociferous in his condemnation of the Widow Boursier , had later been rather more vociferous in her defence . 
had it from a third party that Mme Boursier's sister in law had corrupted other witnesses with gifts of money . 
Bailli , for example , could have been seen carrying bags of ecus under his arm , coming out of the house of the advocate briefed to defend Mme Boursier . 
The President sternly reprimanded Donzelle and sent him back to his seat . 
III The Avocat General , M. de Broe , stated the case for the prosecution . 
, and of the adultery of Mme Boursier with Kostolo . 
In regard to Kostolo , the Greek was a low scallywag , but not culpable . 
The prosecution , you observe , rested on the poison's being administered in the soup . 
In his speech for the defence the eloquent Maitre Couture began by condemning the gossip and the popular rumour on which the case had been begun . 
He denounced the action of the magistrates in instituting proceedings as deplorably unconsidered and hasty . 
Mme Boursier , he pointed out , had everything to lose through the loss of her husband . 
Boursier , he said , had to get up before his wife that morning , rising at six o'clock . 
His rising did not wake his wife , and , perhaps humorously resenting her lazy torpor , he found a piece of charcoal and decorated her countenance with a black moustache . 
It was true that Mme Boursier showed some petulance over her husband's prank when she got down at eight o'clock , but her ill humour did not last long . 
Her husband caressed and petted her , and before long the wife joined her merry minded husband in laughing over the joke against her . 
That , said Maitre Couture , that mutual laughter and kindness , seemed a strange preliminary to the supposed poisoning episode of two hours or so later . 
The truth of the matter was that Boursier carried the germ of death in his own body . 
What enemy had he made ? What vengeance had he incurred ? Maitre Couture reminded the jury of Boursier's poor physical condition , of his stoutness , of the shortness of his neck . 
The President's address then followed . 
The jury retired , and returned with a verdict of Not guilty . 
The jury declares you not guilty of the crime imputed to you . 
It is to be hoped that you will find a like absolution in the court of your own conscience . 
It is to be hoped that your conduct to come may efface the shame of your conduct in the past , and that repentance may restore the honour you have lost . 
have rather diminished thereafter the turnover of the epicerie in the Rue de la Paix . 
The one thing is as likely as the other . 
The two cases were linked , not only in the minds of the lay public , but through close analogy in the idea of lawyers and experts in medical jurisprudence . 
From her prison cell Marie Lafarge watched the progress of the trial in Gascony . 
And when its result was published one may be sure she shed a tear or two . 
You will not find it on anything but the biggest scale maps . 
You may take it that Riguepeu lies in the heart of the Armagnac district . 
Some little distance from Riguepeu itself , on the top of a rise , stood the Chateau Philibert , a one floored house with red tiles and green shutters . 
Not much of a chateau , it was also called locally La Maison de Madame . 
It belonged in to Henri Lacoste , together with considerable land about it . 
It was reckoned that Lacoste , with the land and other belongings , was worth anything between , and , francs . 
Henri had become rich late in life . 
The house and the domain had been left him by his brother Philibert , and another brother's death had also been of some benefit to him . 
Euphemie Verges was , in fact , his grand niece . 
She lived with her parents at Mazeyrolles , a small village in the foothills of the Pyrenees . 
Compared with Lacoste , the Verges were said to be poor . 
Lacoste took it on himself to look after the girl's education , having her sent at his charges to . 
In , on the nd of May , the marriage took place . 
If this marriage of youth with crabbed age resulted in any unhappiness the neighbours saw little of it . 
Lacoste was rather a nasty old fellow from all accounts . 
He was niggardly , coarse , and a womanizer . 
She appeared to be contented enough with it . 
Eight days later he died . 
Milliners and dressmakers were called into service , and the widow blossomed forth as a lady of fashion . 
She next set up her own carriage . 
If these proceedings had not been enough to excite envy among her female neighbours the frequent visits paid to her in her genteel apartments by a young man did the trick . 
The young man came on the scene less than two months after the death of the old man . 
It was said that his visits to the widow were prolonged until midnight . 
Scandal resulted , and out of the scandal rumour regarding the death of Henri Lacoste . 
It began to be said that the old man had died of poison . 
It was in December , six months after the death of Lacoste , that the rumours came to the ears of the magistrates . 
Nor was there lack of anonymous letters . 
It was the Widow Lacoste herself , however , who demanded an exhumation and autopsy on the body of her late husband this as a preliminary to suing her traducers . 
Note , in passing , how her action matches that of Veuve Boursier . 
On the orders of the Juge d'instruction an autopsy was begun on the th of December . 
Lidange and Pons , who at the same time examined samples of the soil in which the body had been interred . 
The finding was that the body of Lacoste contained some arsenical preparation . 
The matter now appearing to be grave , additional scientific assurance was sought . 
Three of the most distinguished chemists in Paris were called into service for a further analysis . 
Devergie , Pelouze , and Flandin . 
There is no appearance of the toxic element in the earth taken from the grave or in the material of the coffin . 
To him she announced her intention of surrendering herself to the Procureur du Roi . 
The friend strongly advised her against doing any such thing , advice which Mme Lacoste accepted with reluctance . 
On the th of January a summons to appear was issued for Mme Lacoste . 
She was seen that day in Auch , walking the streets on the arm of a friend . 
She even went to the post office , but the police agents failed to find her . 
She stopped the night in the town . 
Next day she was at Riguepeu . 
She was getting out of her carriage when a servant pointed out gendarmes coming up the hill with the Mayor . 
When those officials arrived Euphemie was well away . 
Search was made through the house and outbuildings , but without result . 
Don't bother yourself looking any further , Monsieur le Maire , '' said one of the servants . 
The mistress isn't far away , but she's in a place where I could hide a couple of oxen without you finding them . 
From then on Mme Lacoste was hunted for everywhere . 
The roads to Tarbes , Toulouse , and Vic Fezensac were patrolled by brigades of gendarmes day and night , but there was no sign of the fugitive . 
In the meantime the process against her went forward . 
Evidence was to hand which seemed to inculpate with Mme Lacoste a poor and old schoolmaster of Riguepeu named Joseph Meilhan . 
The latter , arrested , stoutly denied not only his own part in the supposed crime , but also the guilt of Mme Lacoste . 
Why doesn't she come forward ? '' he asked . 
She knows perfectly well she has nothing to fear no more than I have . 
'' From the information' laid by the court of first instance at Auch a warrant was issued for the appearance of Mme Lacoste and Meilhan before the Assize of Gers . 
Mme Lacoste was apparently well instructed by her friends . 
She did not come into the open until the last possible moment . 
She gave herself up at the Auch prison on the th of July . 
Her health seemed to have suffered little from the vicissitudes of her flight . 
It was noticed that her hair was short , a fact which seemed to point to her having disguised herself . 
But , it is said , she exhibited a serenity of mind which consorted ill with the idea of guilt . 
She faced an interrogation lasting three hours without faltering . 
On the th of July she appeared before the Gers Assize Court , held at Auch . 
The President was M. Donnoderie . 
Counsel for the prosecution , as it were , was the Procureur du Roi , M. Cassagnol . 
Mme Lacoste was defended by Maitre Alem Rousseau , leader of the bar of Auch . 
The case aroused the liveliest interest , people flocking to the town from as far away as Paris itself so much so that at . 
in the morning the one time palace of the Archbishops of Auch , in the hall of which the court was held , was packed . 
First to appear was Joseph Meilhan . 
He was a stout little old boy of sixty six , rosy and bright eyed , with short white hair and heavy black eyebrows . 
He was calm and smiling , completely master of himself . 
Mme Lacoste then appeared on the arm of her advocate . 
She was dressed in full widow's weeds . 
A little creature , slender but not rounded of figure , she is described as more agreeable looking than actually pretty . 
After the accused had answered with their names and descriptions the acte d'accusation was read . 
It was a long document . 
It recalled the circumstances of the Lacoste marriage and of the death of the old man , with the autopsy and the finding of traces of arsenic . 
But the understanding between husband and wife did not last long , the acte went on . 
Lacoste ardently desired a son and heir , and his wife appeared to be barren . 
He confided his grief to an old friend , one Lespere . 
Lespere pointed out that Euphemie was not only Lacoste's wife , but his kinswoman as well . 
To this Lacoste replied that the fact did not content him . 
I tell you on the quiet , '' he said to his friend , I've made my arrangements . 
If SHE knew she's capable of poisoning me to get herself a younger man . 
'' Lespere told him not to talk rubbish , in effect , but Lacoste was stubborn on his notion . 
This was but a year after the marriage . 
It seemed that Lacoste had a melancholy presentiment of the fate which was to be his . 
It was made out that Euphemie suffered from the avarice and jealousy of her old husband . 
She was given no money , was hardly allowed out of the house , and was not permitted even to go to Vespers alone . 
And then , said the accusation , she discovered that her husband wanted an heir . 
She had reason to fear that he would go about getting one by an illicit association . 
In the middle of she overheard her husband bargaining with one of the domestics . 
, while her husband did not want to give more than francs . 
Euphemie Verges had no doubt , '' ran the accusation , that this was the price of an adulterous contract , and she insisted on Marie Dupuys' being sent from the house . 
This was the cause of disagreement between the married pair , which did not conclude with the departure of the servant . 
Euphemie Verges , said the accusation , thus thought herself exposed daily , by the infidelity of her husband , to the loss of all her hopes . 
'' The acte d'accusation enlarged on the situation , then went on to bring in Joseph Meilhan as Euphemie's accomplice . 
It made him out to be a bad old man indeed . 
He had seduced , it was said , a young girl named Lescure , who became enceinte , afterwards dying from an abortion which Meilhan was accused of having procured . 
It might be thought that the society of such a bad old man would have disgusted a young woman , but Euphemie Verges admitted him to intimacy . 
The counsels of such a man were not calculated to help Mme Lacoste in her quarrels with her unfaithful and unlovable husband . 
Meanwhile M. Lacoste was letting new complaints be heard regarding his wife . 
Again Lespere was his confidant . 
His wife was bad and sulky . 
He was very inclined to undo what he had done for her . 
This was in March of . 
Towards the end of April he made a like complaint to another old friend , one Dupouy , who accused him of neglecting old friends through uxoriousness . 
Lacoste said he found little pleasure in his young wife . 
He was , on the contrary , a martyr . 
He was on the point of disinheriting her . 
And so , with the usual amount of on dit and disait on , the acte d'accusation came to the point of Lacoste at the Riguepeu fair . 
He set out in his usual health , but , several hours later , said to one Laffon , I have the shivers , cramps in the stomach . 
After being made to drink by that Meilhan I felt ill . 
Cournet noticed that Lacoste was as white as a sheet . 
He advised going to bed and taking hot water . 
During the night he was copiously sick . 
The old man was in bed in an alcove near the kitchen , but next night he was put into a room out of the way of noise . 
Euphemie looked after her husband alone , preparing his drinks and admitting nobody to see him . 
She let three days pass without calling a doctor . 
Lacoste , it was true , had said he did not want a doctor , but , said the accusation , there is no proof that he persisted in that wish . 
'' On the fourth day she sent a summary of the illness to Dr Boubee , asking for written advice . 
On the fifth day a surgeon was called , M. Lasmolles , who was told that Lacoste had eaten a meal of onions , garlic stems , and beans . 
But the story of this meal was a lie , a premeditated lie . 
On the eve of the fair Mme Lacoste was already speaking of such a meal , saying that that sort of thing always made her husband ill . 
When Henri Lacoste had drawn his last breath his wife shed a few tears . 
But presently her grief gave place to other preoccupations . 
She herself looked out the sheet for wrapping the corpse , and thereafter she began to search in the desk for the will which made her her husband's sole heir . 
Next day Meilhan , who had not once looked in on Lacoste during his illness , hastened to visit the widow . 
The widow invited him to dinner . 
The day after that he dined with her again , and they were seen walking together . 
Their intimacy seemed to grow daily . 
But the friendship of Mme Lacoste for Meilhan did not end there . 
Not very many days after the death of Lacoste Meilhan met the Mayor of Riguepeu , M. Sabazan , and conducted him in a mysterious manner into his schoolroom . 
Telling the Mayor that he knew him to be a man of discretion , he confided in him that the Veuve Lacoste intended giving him a bill on one Castera . 
Did the Mayor know Castera to be all right ? The Mayor replied that a bill on Castera was as good as gold itself . 
Meilhan said that Mme Lacoste had assured him this was but the beginning of what she meant to do for him . 
Meilhan wrote to Castera , who called on him . 
Meilhan showed Castera the original note , which was to be renewed in Meilhan's favour . 
The accusation dwelt on the different versions regarding his possession of the note given by Meilhan to the Mayor and to Castera . 
Meilhan was demonstrably lying to conceal Mme Lacoste's liberality . 
But there was another proposition . 
If Meilhan would return the note for francs owing by Castera she would make the annuity up to . 
What , asked Meilhan , would M. le Maire do in his place ? The Mayor replied that in Meilhan's place he would keep the Castera note and be content with the annuity . 
Then Meilhan asked the Mayor to draw up for him a specimen of the document necessary for creating the annuity . 
This M. Sabazan did at once , and gave the draft to Meilhan . 
Some days later still Meilhan told M. Sabazan that Mme Lacoste did not wish to use the form of document suggested by the Mayor , but had written one herself . 
Meilhan showed the Mayor the widow's document , and begged him to read it to see if it was in proper form . 
It created an annuity of francs , payable yearly in the month of August . 
The Mayor did not know actually if the deed was in the writing of Mme Lacoste . 
He did not know her fist . 
But he could be certain that it was not in Meilhan's hand . 
This deed was later shown by Meilhan to the cure of Riguepeu , who saw at least that the deed was not in Meilhan's writing . 
He noticed that it showed some mistakes , and that the signature of the Widow Lacoste began with the word Euphemie . 
'' In the month of August Meilhan was met coming out of Mme Lacoste's by the Mayor . 
Jingling money in his pocket , the schoolmaster told the Mayor he had just drawn the first payment of his annuity . 
Later Meilhan bragged to the cure of Basais that he was made for life . 
He took a handful of louis from his pocket , and told the priest that this was his daily allowance . 
In the month of August Meilhan was chased from his lodgings by his landlord , Lescure , on suspicion of having had intimate relations with the landlord's wife . 
The intervention of the Mayor was ineffective in bringing about a reconciliation between Meilhan and Lescure . 
Meilhan begged Mme Lacoste to intercede , and where the Mayor had failed she succeeded . 
While Mme Lacoste was thus smothering Meilhan with kindnesses she was longing herself to make the most of the fortune which had come to her . 
From the first days of her widowhood she was constantly writing letters which Mme Lescure carried for her . 
Euphemie had already begun to talk of remarriage . 
Her choice was already made . 
If I marry again , '' she said , a few days after the death of Lacoste , I won't take anybody but M. Henri Berens , of Tarbes . 
He was my first love . 
'' The accusation told of Euphemie's departure for Tarbes , where almost her first caller was this M. Henri Berens . 
The next day she gave up the lodgings rented by her late husband , to establish herself in rich apartments owned by one Fourcade , which she furnished sumptuously . 
The accusation dwelt on her purchase of horses and a carriage and on her luxurious way of living . 
It also brought forward some small incidents illustrative of her distaste for the memory of her late husband . 
It dealt with information supplied by her landlord which indicated that her conscience was troubled . 
Twice M. Fourcade found her trembling , as with fear . 
The accusation claimed that a young man had several times been seen leaving Euphemie's apartments at midnight , and spoke of protests made by Mme Fourcade . 
Euphemie declared herself indifferent to public opinion . 
Public opinion , however , beginning to rise against her , Euphemie had need to resort to lying in order to explain her husband's death . 
To some she repeated the story of the onion garlic and beans meal , adding that , in spite of his indigestion , he had eaten gluttonously later in the day . 
To others she attributed his illness to two indigestible repasts made at the fair . 
To others again she said Lacoste had died of a hernia , forced out by his efforts to vomit . 
She was even accused of saying that the doctor had attributed the death to this cause . 
This , said the indictment , was a lie . 
Dr Lasmolles declared that he had questioned Lacoste about the supposed hernia , and that the old man denied having any such thing . 
What had brought about Lacoste's fatal illness was the wine Meilhan had made him drink at Rigeupeu fair . 
With the rise of suspicion against her and her accomplice , Mme Lacoste put up a brave front . 
She wrote to the Procureur du Roi , demanding an exhumation , with the belief , no doubt , that time would have effaced the poison . 
This , said the accusation , was nothing but a move to frighten the witnesses against her into silence . 
Instead of making good her threats the Widow Lacoste disappeared . 
On the arrest of Meilhan search of his lodgings resulted in the finding of the note on Castera for francs , and of a sum of francs in gold and silver . 
But of the deed creating the annuity of francs there was no trace . 
It was between three and four that Lacoste first showed signs of being ill . 
Asked to explain the note for francs , Meilhan said that , about two months after Lacoste's death , the widow complained of not having any ready money . 
She had the Castera note , and he offered to discount it for her . 
This was a palpable lie , said the accusation . 
It was only a few days after Lacoste's death that Meilhan spoke to the Mayor about the Castera note . 
Meilhan's statement was full of discrepancies . 
He told Castera that he held the note against francs previously lent to the widow . 
He now said that he had discounted the note on sight . 
But the fact was that since Meilhan had come to live in Riguepeu he had been without resources . 
He had stripped himself in order to establish his son in a pharmacy at Vic Fezensac . 
His profession of schoolmaster scarcely brought him in enough for living expenses . 
Meilhan was in still greater difficulty to explain the document which had settled on him an annuity of francs , and which had been seen in his hands . 
Denial was useless , since he had asked the Mayor to make a draft for him , and since he had shown that functionary the deed signed by Mme Lacoste . 
I consistently refused to do so , because I wanted to save what little I might against the time when I should be unable to work any longer . 
Six months ago my son wrote to the cure , begging him to speak to me . 
The cure , not wishing to do so , sent on the letter to the Mayor , who communicated with me . 
I replied that I did not wish to do anything , adding that I intended investing my savings in a life annuity . 
At the same time I begged M. Sabazan to make me a draft in the name of Mme Lacoste . 
She knew nothing about it . 
M. Sabazan sent me on the draft . 
It seemed to me well drawn up . 
I rewrote it , and showed it to M. Sabazan . 
At the foot of the deed I put the words Veuve Lacoste , but I had been at pains to disguise my handwriting . 
The cure of Riguepeu , however , while admitting that he had received such a letter from Meilhan's son , declared that this was long before the death of Henri Lacoste . 
The accusation ridiculed Meilhan's explanation , dubbing it just another of the schoolmaster's lies . 
The accusation , in sum , concentrated on the suspicious relationship between Meilhan and the Widow Lacoste . 
It was a long document , but something lacking in weight of proof proof of the actual murder , that is , if not of circumstance . 
V The process in a French criminal court was and still is somewhat long winded . 
The Procureur du Roi had to go over the accusation in detail , making the most of Mme Lacoste's intimacy with the ill reputed old fellow . 
That parishioner , far from being made indignant by the animadversions of M. Cassagnol , listened to the recital of his misdeeds with a faint smile . 
He was the first of the accused to be questioned . 
It was brought out that he had been a soldier under the Republic , and then for a time had studied pharmacy . 
He had been a corn merchant in a small way , and then had started schoolmaster . 
Endeavour was made to get him to admit guilty knowledge of the death of the Lescure girl . 
He had never even heard of an abortion . 
The girl had a stomach ache . 
This line failing , he was interrogated on the matter of being chased from his lodgings by the landlord father , it would seem , of the aforementioned girl . 
Meilhan had an innocent explanation of the incident . 
It was all a mistake on the part of Lescure . 
And he hadn't been chased out of the auberge . 
He had simply gone out with his coat slung about his shoulders . 
Mme Lacoste went with him to patch the matter up . 
He had not given Lacoste a drink , hadn't even spoken with him , at the Riguepeu fair , but had passed the day with M. Mothe . 
Cournet had told him of Lacoste's having a headache , but had said nothing of vomitings . 
He had not seen Lacoste during the latter's illness , because Lacoste was seeing nobody . 
This business of the annuity had got rather entangled , but he would explain . 
He had lodged francs with Mme Lacoste , and she had given him a bill on Castera . 
Whether he had given the money before or after getting the bill he could not be sure . 
He had forgotten the circumstances while in prison . 
Meilhan stuck pretty firmly to his story that it was to deceive his son that he had fabricated the deed of annuity . 
He couldn't help it if the story sounded thin . 
How had he contrived to save , as he said , francs ? His yearly income during his six years at Riguepeu had been only francs . 
The court had reason to be surprised . 
Ah ! You're surprised ! '' exclaimed Meilhan , rather put out . 
But at Breuzeville , where he was before Riguepeu , he had bed and board free . 
In Riguepeu he had nothing off the spit for days on end . 
He spent only francs a year , he said , giving details . 
And then he did a little trade in corn . 
He had destroyed the annuity deed only because it was worthless . 
As for what he had said to the Mayor about drawing his first payment of the pension , he had done it because he was a bit conscience stricken over fabricating the deed . 
He had been bragging that was all . 
The President , having already chidden Meilhan for being prolix in his answers , now scolded him for anticipating the questions . 
But the fact was that Meilhan was not to be pinned down . 
The first questions put to Mme Lacoste were with regard to her marriage and her relations with her husband . 
She admitted , incidentally , having begun to receive a young man some six weeks after her husband's death , but she had not known him before marriage . 
Meilhan had carried no letters between them . 
She had married Lacoste of her own free will . 
Lacoste had not asked any attentions from her that were not ordinarily sought by a husband , and her care of him had been spontaneous . 
It was true he was jealous , but he had not formally forbidden her pleasures . 
She had renounced them , knowing he was easily upset . 
It was true that she had seldom gone out , but she had never wanted to . 
Lacoste was no more avaricious than most , and it was untrue that he had denied her any necessaries . 
Taken to the events of the fair day , Tuesday , the th of May , Mme Lacoste maintained that her husband , on his return , complained only of a headache . 
He had gone to bed early , but he usually did . 
That night he slept in the same alcove as herself , but next night they separated . 
It was not until that night that she began to attend to him . 
She had given him lemonade , washed him , and so on . 
The President was saying that nobody had been allowed near him , and that a doctor was not called , when the accused broke in with a lively denial . 
Anybody who wanted to could see him , and a doctor was called . 
This was towards the last , the President pointed out . 
Mme Lacoste's advocate intervened here , saying that it was the husband who did not wish a doctor called , for reasons of his own . 
The President begged to be allowed to hear the accused's own answers . 
He pointed out that the ministrations of the accused had effected no betterment , but that the illness had rapidly got worse . 
The delay in calling a doctor seemed to lend a strange significance to the events . 
'' The President said a way remained of fixing the dates and clearing up the point . 
He had a letter written by M. Lacoste to the doctor in which he himself explained the state of his illness . 
It was pointed out to him that the letter had been written by Mme Lacoste at her husband's dictation . 
The letter was dated the th . 
It was directed to M. Boubee , doctor of medicine , in Vic Fezensac . 
Perhaps it would be better to give it in the original language . 
It is something frank in detail Depuis quelque temps j'avais perdu l'appetit et m'endormais de suite quand j'etais assis . 
Mercredi il me vint un secours de nature par un vomissement extraordinaire . 
Ces vomissements m'ont dure pendant un jour et une nuit je ne rendais que de la bile . 
La nuit passee , je n'en ai pas rendu dans ce moment , j'en rends encore . 
Je vous demanderai aussi si je pourrais prendre quelques bains . 
signe LACOSTE PHILIBERT Je rends beaucoup de vents par en bas . 
Pour la boisson , je ne bois que de l'eau chaude et de l'eau sucree . 
The Procureur du Roi maintained that this letter showed the invalid had already been taken with vomiting before it was considered necessary to call in a doctor . 
But Mme Lacoste's advocate pointed out that the letter was written by her , when she had overcome Lacoste's distaste for doctors . 
The accusation from this was that she did these things from a desire to destroy incriminating evidences . 
Mme Lacoste replied that she had done everything out of affection for her husband . 
He had , it appeared , hernias , tetters , and other maladies besides . 
He was always vexed when she found him at it . 
She did not know what doctor prescribed the medicaments , nor the pharmacist who supplied them . 
Her husband thought he knew more than the doctors , and usually dealt with quacks . 
Mme Lacoste was questioned regarding her husband's will , and on his longing to have an heir of his own blood . 
She knew of the will , but did not hear any word of his desire to alter it until after his death . 
With regard to Lacoste's attempts to seduce the servants , she declared this was a vague affair , and she had found the first girl in question a place elsewhere . 
Her letter to the Procureur du Roi demanding an exhumation and justice against her slanderers was read . 
The President then returned to the question of her husband's attempts to seduce the servants . 
She denied that this was the cause of quarrels . 
There had been no quarrels . 
She did not know that her husband was complaining outside about her . 
She denied all knowledge of the arsenic found in Lacoste's body , but suggested that it might have come from one or other of the medicines he took . 
Questioned with regard to her intimacy with Meilhan , she declared that she knew nothing of his morals . 
She had intervened in the Lescure affair at the request of Mme Lescure , who came to deny the accusation made by Lescure . 
This woman had never acted as intermediary between herself and Meilhan . 
Meilhan had not been her confidant . 
She looked after her late husband's affairs herself . 
She had handed over the Castera note to Meilhan against his loan of francs , but she had never given him money as a present . 
Nor had she ever spoken to Meilhan of an annuity . 
But Meilhan , it was objected , had been showing a deed signed Euphemie Lacoste . 
'' The accused quickly replied that she never signed herself Euphemie , '' but as Veuve Lacoste . 
'' Upon this the President called for several letters written by the accused . 
It was found that they were all signed Veuve Lacoste . 
'' The evidence of the Fourcades regarding her conduct in their house at Tarbes was biased , she said . 
She had refused to take up some people recommended by her landlady . 
The young man who had visited her never remained longer than after ten o'clock or half past , and she saw nothing singular in that . 
Throughout this long examination Mme Lacoste showed complete self possession , save that at times she exhibited a Gascon impatience in answering what she conceived to be stupid questions . 
VI The experts responsible for the analysis of Lacoste's remains were now called . 
All three of those gentlemen from Paris , MM . 
Pelouze , Devergie , and Flandin , agreed in their findings . 
Two vessels were exhibited , on which there glittered blobs of some metallic substance . 
This substance , the experts deposed , was arsenic obtained by the Marsh technique from the entrails and the muscular tissue from Lacoste's body . 
They could be sure that the substances used as reagents in the experiments were pure , and that the earth about the body was free from arsenic . 
M. Devergie said that science did not admit the presence of arsenic as a normal thing in the human body . 
Dr Lasmolles testified that Lacoste , though very close mouthed , had told him of a skin affection that troubled him greatly . 
The deceased dosed himself , and did not obey the doctors' orders . 
It was only from a farmer that he understood Lacoste to have a hernia , and Lacoste himself did not admit it . 
The doctor did not believe the man poisoned . 
He had been impressed by the way Mme Lacoste looked after her husband , and the latter did not complain about anyone . 
M. Lasmolles had heard no mention from Lacoste of the glass of wine given him by Meilhan . 
After M. Devergie had said that he had heard of arsenical remedies used externally for skin diseases , but never of any taken internally , M. Plandin expressed his opinion as before quoted . 
The next witness was one Dupouy , of whom some mention has already been made . 
Five days before his death Lacoste told him that , annoyed with his wife , he definitely intended to disinherit her . 
Dupouy admitted , however , that shortly before this the deceased had spoken of taking a pleasure trip with Mme Lacoste . 
It was plain that this witness , a friend of Lacoste's for forty six years , was not ready to make any admissions in her favour . 
He swore that Lacoste had told him his wife did not know she was his sole heir . 
He was allowed to say that on the death of Lacoste he had immediately assumed that the poisoning feared by Lacoste had been brought about . 
He had heard nothing from Lacoste of secret maladies or secret remedies , but had been so deep in Lacoste's confidence that he felt sure his old friend would have mentioned them . 
He had heard of such things only at the beginning of the case . 
The Procureur du Roi remarked here that reliance on the secret remedies was the system' of the defence . 
That seemed to be the case . 
The system' of the prosecution , on the other hand , was to snatch at anything likely to appear as evidence against the two accused . 
, several witnesses declared that Lacoste had complained to them of feeling ill after drinking with Meilhan , but none could speak of seeing the two men together . 
It was so much his habit to be with Meilhan during the days of the fair that he had no distinct recollection of any of them . 
Lescure , in whose auberge Lacoste was supposed to have had the drink , failed to remember such an incident . 
The evidence that Meilhan had given Lacoste the drink was all second hand that to the contrary was definite . 
, that Lacoste became very ill immediately on his return from the fair , was hearsay . 
The servants belonging to the Lacoste household all maintained that the vomiting did not seize the old man until the night of Wednesday Thursday . 
Indeed , two witnesses testified that the old man , in spite of his supposed headache , essayed to show them how well he could dance . 
This was on his return from the fair where he was supposed to have been given a poisoned drink at three o'clock . 
On this point arises the question of the delay in calling the doctor . 
Witness after witness testified to Lacoste's hatred of the medical faculty and to his preference for dosing himself . 
He declared his faith in a local vet . 
, the bulk of the evidence against Lacoste's having the suggested afflictions came simply from witnesses who had not heard of them . 
It was also testified that Lacoste was in the habit of prescribing his remedies for other people . 
A witness declared that a woman to whom Lacoste had given medicine for an indisposition had become crippled , and still was crippled . 
'' This last witness added that Mme Lacoste's reputation was irreproachable , and that her relations with her husband were happy . 
Evidence from a business man in Tarbes showed that Mme Lacoste's handling of her fortune was careful to a degree , her expenditure being well within her income . 
This witness also proved that the Fourcades' evidence of Euphemie's misbehaviour could have been dictated from spite . 
Fourcade had been found out in what looked like a swindle over money which he owed to the Lacoste estate . 
The court then went more deeply into the medico legal evidence . 
It were tedious to follow the course of this long argument . 
The duration of the illness was in accord with the amount of arsenic found . 
M. Flandin agreed with this , but M. Pelouze abstained from expressing an opinion . 
He , however , rather gave the show away , by saying that if he was a doctor he would take care to forbid any arsenical preparations . 
These preparations , '' he said moodily , can introduce a melancholy obscurity into the investigations of criminal justice . 
'' Some sense was brought into the discussion by Dr Molas , of Auch . 
He put forward the then accepted idea of the accumulation of arsenic taken in small doses , and the power of this accumulation , on the least accident , of determining death . 
This was rather like chucking a monkey wrench into the cerebration machinery of the Paris experts . 
They admitted that the absorption and elimination of arsenic varied with the individual , and generally handed the case over to the defence . 
M. Devergie was the only one who stuck out , but only partially even then . 
'' VII The speech of the Procureur du Roi was another resume of the acte d'accusation , with consideration of that part of the evidence which suited him best . 
This was followed by the speech of Maitre Canteloup in defence of Meilhan . 
It reproached the accusation with jugglery over dates and so forth in support of its case , and confidently predicted the acquittal of Meilhan . 
Then followed the speech of Maitre Alem Rousseau on behalf of the Veuve Lacoste . 
The marriage was celebrated in May of . 
It was thus right to say that Euphemie became the benefactor of her husband . 
Where was the speculative marriage on the part of Euphemie that the prosecution talked about ? Maitre Alem Rousseau made short work of the medico legal evidence . 
Poison was found in the body . 
This witness spoke of Lacoste's having asked , in Bordeaux , for a certain liquor of Saint Louis , '' a liquor which Mme Lacoste took to be an anisette . 
No , '' said Lacoste , women don't take it . 
'' Maitre Alem Rousseau had tried to discover what this liquor of Saint Louis was . 
During the trial he had come upon the fact that the arsenical preparation known as Fowler's solution had been administered for the first time in the hospital of Saint Louis , in Paris . 
At the time when the marriage was arranged , he proved , Lacoste had no more than , francs to his name . 
Euphemie had , francs on her marriage and the hope of , francs more . 
Maitre Alem , defending the widow's gayish conduct after her husband's death , declared it to be natural enough . 
It had been shown to be innocent . 
He trounced the Press for helping to exaggerate the rumours which envy of Mme Lacoste's good fortune had created . 
He asked the jury to acquit Mme Lacoste . 
The Procureur du Roi had another say . 
The summing up of the President on the third day of the trial was , it is said , a model of clarity and impartiality . 
The jury returned on all the points put to them a verdict of Not guilty'' for both the accused . 
VIII Another verdict may now seem to have been hardly possible . 
The accusation was built up on the jealousy of neighbours , on chance circumstances , on testimonies founded on petty spite . 
But , combined with the medico legal evidence , the weight of circumstance might easily have hoisted the accused in the balance . 
It will be seen , then , how much on foot the case of the Veuve Lacoste was with that of the Veuve Boursier , twenty years before . 
It is on the experience of cases such as these two that the technique of investigation into arsenical poison has been evolved . 
In the case of Veuve Boursier you find M. Orfila discovering oxide of arsenic where M. Barruel saw only grains of fat . 
Nowadays we are quite certain that our experts in medical jurisprudence know all there is to know about arsenical poisoning . 
M. Orfila , sure about the grocer of the Rue de la Paix , was defeated by M. Barruel . 
M. Orfila , sure about the death of Charles Lafarge , is declared by to day's experts in criminal jurisprudence and pathology to have been talking through his hat . 
According to the present experts , says Philip Curtin , '' Lafarge was not poisoned at all , but died a natural death . 
Because of M. Devergie it was for the Veuve Lacoste as much touch and go' as it was for the Veuve Boursier twenty years before . 
Ansell , Mary Aqua fortis see Poisons Armstrong , poisoner Arsenic see Poisons Artois , Comte d' see Charles X Aumale , Duc d' Bacon , Sir Francis Balfour , Rev . 
James Ballet , Auguste Barruel , Dr . 
Blandy , Mary Bordeaux , Duc de Bordot , Dr . 
Borgia , Cesare Borgia , Lucretia Borgia , Rodrigo , Pope Alexander VI Borrow , George Boubee , Dr . 
Briant , Abbe Brock , Alan Broe , M. de , Avocat General Brownrigg , Elizabeth Bruce , Rev . 
Phosphorus see Poisons Piddington , Rev . 
of Rennes Pitcairn's trials Pitois , Dr . 
