In the South Seas by Robert Louis Stevenson edition . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
of the Gilbert group , and reached Samoa towards the close of . 
I began to prepare these pages at sea , on a third cruise , in the trading steamer JANET NICOLL . 
That I should thus have reversed the verdict of Lord Tennyson's hero is less eccentric than appears . 
The first experience can never be repeated . 
The first love , the first sunrise , the first South Sea island , are memories apart and touched a virginity of sense . 
On the th of July the moon was an hour down by four in the morning . 
In the east a radiating centre of brightness told of the day and beneath , on the skyline , the morning bank was already building , black as ink . 
The period certainly varies with the season but here is one case exactly noted . 
Eight degrees south , and the day two hours a coming . 
The interval was passed on deck in the silence of expectation , the customary thrill of landfall heightened by the strangeness of the shores that we were then approaching . 
Slowly they took shape in the attenuating darkness . 
There was no beacon , no smoke of towns to be expected , no plying pilot . 
These we were to find for these we craned and stared , focused glasses , and wrangled over charts and the sun was overhead and the land close ahead before we found them . 
Thence we bore away along shore . 
Again the cliff yawned , but now with a deeper entry and the CASCO , hauling her wind , began to slide into the bay of Anaho . 
Rude and bare hills embraced the inlet upon either hand it was enclosed to the landward by a bulk of shattered mountains . 
In every crevice of that barrier the forest harboured , roosting and nestling there like birds about a ruin and far above , it greened and roughened the razor edges of the summit . 
Under the eastern shore , our schooner , now bereft of any breeze , continued to creep in the smart creature , when once under way , appearing motive in herself . 
close upon a curve of beach , close under a grove of palms the sea in front growling and whitening on a concave arc of reef . 
For the cocoa tree and the island man are both lovers and neighbours of the surf . 
The mark of anchorage was a blow hole in the rocks , near the south easterly corner of the bay . 
Punctually to our use , the blow hole spouted the schooner turned upon her heel the anchor plunged . 
Before yet the anchor plunged a canoe was already paddling from the hamlet . 
'Captain , is it permitted to come on board ? were the first words we heard among the islands . 
There was no word of welcome no show of civility no hand extended save that of the chief and Mr. Regler . 
As we still continued to refuse the proffered articles , complaint ran high and rude and one , the jester of the party , railed upon our meanness amid jeering laughter . 
Amongst other angry pleasantries 'Here is a mighty fine ship , said he , 'to have no money on board ! I own I was inspired with sensible repugnance even with alarm . 
The eyes of all Polynesians are large , luminous , and melting they are like the eyes of animals and some Italians . 
To cross the Channel is , for a boy of twelve , to change heavens to cross the Atlantic , for a man of twenty four , is hardly to modify his diet . 
I should have but dipped into a picture book without a text . 
There could be nothing more natural than these apprehensions , nor anything more groundless . 
In my experience of the islands , I had never again so menacing a reception were I to meet with such to day , I should be more alarmed and tenfold more surprised . 
CHAPTER II MAKING FRIENDS THE impediment of tongues was one that I particularly over estimated . 
The languages of Polynesia are easy to smatter , though hard to speak with elegance . 
And they are extremely similar , so that a person who has a tincture of one or two may risk , not without hope , an attempt upon the others . 
And again , not only is Polynesian easy to smatter , but interpreters abound . 
I will instance a few examples . 
I met in Majuro a Marshall Island boy who spoke excellent English this he had learned in the German firm in Jaluit , yet did not speak one word of German . 
But what struck me perhaps most of all was a word I heard on the verandah of the Tribunal at Noumea . 
A case had just been heard a trial for infanticide against an ape like native woman and the audience were smoking cigarettes as they awaited the verdict . 
An anxious , amiable French lady , not far from tears , was eager for acquittal , and declared she would engage the prisoner to be her children's nurse . 
The bystanders exclaimed at the proposal the woman was a savage , said they , and spoke no language . 
'MAIS , VOUS SAVEZ , objected the fair sentimentalist 'ILS APPRENNENT SI VITE L'ANGLAIS ! But to be able to speak to people is not all . 
And in the first stage of my relations with natives I was helped by two things . 
To begin with , I was the show man of the CASCO . 
Biscuit , jam , and syrup was the entertainment and , as in European parlours , the photograph album went the round . 
There is the place for him to go when he shall be weary of Middlesex and Homer . 
It was perhaps yet more important that I had enjoyed in my youth some knowledge of our Scots folk of the Highlands and the Islands . 
Not much beyond a century has passed since these were in the same convulsive and transitionary state as the Marquesans of to day . 
The commercial age , in each , succeeding at a bound to an age of war abroad and patriarchal communism at home . 
In one the cherished practice of tattooing , in the other a cherished costume , proscribed . 
The grumbling , the secret ferment , the fears and resentments , the alarms and sudden councils of Marquesan chiefs , reminded me continually of the days of Lovat and Struan . 
Hospitality , tact , natural fine manners , and a touchy punctilio , are common to both races common to both tongues the trick of dropping medial consonants . 
Here is a table of two widespread Polynesian words HOUSE . 
The tendency of the Marquesans , however , is to urge against consonants , or at least on the very common letter L , a war of mere extermination . 
It was so that I hit upon a means of communication which I recommend to travellers . 
The native was no longer ashamed , his sense of kinship grew warmer , and his lips were opened . 
It is this sense of kinship that the traveller must rouse and share or he had better content himself with travels from the blue bed to the brown . 
And the presence of one Cockney titterer will cause a whole party to walk in clouds of darkness . 
The hamlet of Anaho stands on a margin of flat land between the west of the beach and the spring of the impending mountains . 
with fallen branches , and shades it like an arbour . 
The same word , as we have seen , represents in many tongues of Polynesia , with scarce a shade of difference , the abode of man . 
But although the word be the same , the structure itself continually varies and the Marquesan , among the most backward and barbarous of islanders , is yet the most commodiously lodged . 
To some houses water is brought down the mountains in bamboo pipes , perforated for the sake of sweetness . 
Two things , I suppose , explain the contrast . 
In Scotland wood is rare , and with materials so rude as turf and stone the very hope of neatness is excluded . 
And in Scotland it is cold . 
To one such dwelling platform a considerable troop of relatives and dependants resort . 
In a Highland hamlet , quite out of reach of any tourist , I have met the same plain and dignified hospitality . 
The great majority of Polynesians are excellently mannered but the Marquesan stands apart , annoying and attractive , wild , shy , and refined . 
If you make him a present he affects to forget it , and it must be offered him again at his going a pretty formality I have found nowhere else . 
A slight or an insult the Marquesan seems never to forget . 
I was one day talking by the wayside with my friend Hoka , when I perceived his eyes suddenly to flash and his stature to swell . 
A white horseman was coming down the mountain , and as he passed , and while he paused to exchange salutations with myself , Hoka was still staring and ruffling like a gamecock . 
It was a Corsican who had years before called him COCHON SAUVAGE COCON CHAUVAGE , as Hoka mispronounced it . 
With people so nice and so touchy , it was scarce to be supposed that our company of greenhorns should not blunder into offences . 
Hoka , on one of his visits , fell suddenly in a brooding silence , and presently after left the ship with cold formality . 
On another occasion I gave my boat's crew a luncheon of chocolate and biscuits . 
I had sinned , I could never learn how , against some point of observance and though I was drily thanked , my offerings were left upon the beach . 
But our worst mistake was a slight we put on Toma , Hoka's adoptive father , and in his own eyes the rightful chief of Anaho . 
In the first place , we did not call upon him , as perhaps we should , in his fine new European house , the only one in the hamlet . 
Nor did he forgive us . 
Hoka came and went with us daily but , alone I believe of all the countryside , neither Toma nor his wife set foot on board the CASCO . 
The temptation resisted it is hard for a European to compute . 
The flying city of Laputa moored for a fortnight in St . 
On the afternoon before it was intended we should sail , a valedictory party came on board nine of our particular friends equipped with gifts and dressed as for a festival . 
The last visit was not long protracted . 
One after another they shook hands and got down into their canoe when Hoka turned his back immediately upon the ship , so that we saw his face no more . 
Taipi , on the other hand , remained standing and facing us with gracious valedictory gestures and when Captain Otis dipped the ensign , the whole party saluted with their hats . 
This reserve and dignity is the finest trait of the Marquesan . 
CHAPTER III THE MAROON OF the beauties of Anaho books might be written . 
I remember waking about three , to find the air temperate and scented . 
The long swell brimmed into the bay , and seemed to fill it full and then subside . 
Gently , deeply , and silently the CASCO rolled only at times a block piped like a bird . 
Oceanward , the heaven was bright with stars and the sea with their reflections . 
If I looked to that side , I might have sung with the Hawaiian poet UA MAOMAO KA LANI , UA KAHAEA LUNA , UA PIPI KA MAKA O KA HOKU . 
And day , when it came , brought other sights and thoughts . 
The mountains abruptly overhang the port with every variety of surface and of inclination , lawn , and cliff , and forest . 
Not one of these but wore its proper tint of saffron , of sulphur , of the clove , and of the rose . 
The lustre was like that of satin on the lighter hues there seemed to float an efflorescence a solemn bloom appeared on the more dark . 
The light itself was the ordinary light of morning , colourless and clean and on this ground of jewels , pencilled out the least detail of drawing . 
The glow continued and increased , the business , from the main part , ceased before it had begun . 
Twice in the day there was a certain stir of shepherding along the seaward hills . 
At times a canoe went out to fish . 
At times a woman or two languidly filled a basket in the cotton patch . 
Or at times , across a corner of the bay , two natives might communicate in the Marquesan manner with conventional whistlings . 
All else was sleep and silence . 
My favourite haunt was opposite the hamlet , where was a landing in a cove under a lianaed cliff . 
I have toiled at this childish pleasure for hours in the strong sun , conscious of my incurable ignorance but too keenly pleased to be ashamed . 
would be fluting in the thickets overhead . 
A little further , in the turn of the bay , a streamlet trickled in the bottom of a den , thence spilling down a stair of rock into the sea . 
The draught of air drew down under the foliage in the very bottom of the den , which was a perfect arbour for coolness . 
In front it stood open on the blue bay and the CASCO lying there under her awning and her cheerful colours . 
Overhead was a thatch of puraos , and over these again palms brandished their bright fans , as I have seen a conjurer make himself a halo out of naked swords . 
It chanced one day that I was ashore in the cove , with Mrs. Stevenson and the ship's cook . 
The next moment the tree closed , and the glimpse was gone . 
Talk languished on the beach . 
It was more than a year later , in the Gilberts , that the explanation dawned upon myself . 
The natives were drawing palm tree wine , a thing forbidden by law and when the wind thus suddenly revealed them , they were doubtless more troubled than ourselves . 
At the top of the den there dwelt an old , melancholy , grizzled man of the name of Tari Coffin . 
For one captain , sailing out of New Bedford , carried him to Nuka hiva and marooned him there among the cannibals . 
The motive for this act was inconceivably small poor Tari's wages , which were thus economised , would scarce have shook the credit of the New Bedford owners . 
And the act itself was simply murder . 
Tari's life must have hung in the beginning by a hair . 
He escaped at least alive , married in the island , and when I knew him was a widower with a married son and a granddaughter . 
Tari was poor , and poorly lodged . 
His house was a wooden frame , run up by Europeans it was indeed his official residence , for Tari was the shepherd of the promontory sheep . 
His distaste for the French I can partly understand , but not at all his toleration of the Anglo Saxon . 
The next day he brought me a pig , and some days later one of our party going ashore found him in act to bring a second . 
Scarce had the canoe with the nine villagers put off from their farewell before the CASCO was boarded from the other side . 
, because he was a stranger in the land , and the dreariest of company . 
The rest of my family basely fled from the encounter . 
I must receive our injured friend alone and the interview must have lasted hard upon an hour , for he was loath to tear himself away . 
From these expressions of grief and praise , he would return continually to the case of the rejected pig . 
I went up the den one day when Tari was from home , and found the son making a cotton sack , and madame suckling mademoiselle . 
'PAS DE COCOTIERS ? PAS DO POPOI ? she asked . 
I told her it was too cold , and went through an elaborate performance , shutting out draughts , and crouching over an imaginary fire , to make sure she understood . 
But she understood right well remarked it must be bad for the health , and sat a while gravely reflecting on that picture of unwonted sorrows . 
'ICI PAS DE KANAQUES , said she and taking the baby from her breast , she held it out to me with both her hands . 
'TENEZ a little baby like this then dead . 
The smile , and this instancing by the girl mother of her own tiny flesh and blood , affected me strangely they spoke of so tranquil a despair . 
no more literary works and no more readers . 
CHAPTER IV DEATH THE thought of death , I have said , is uppermost in the mind of the Marquesan . 
It would be strange if it were otherwise . 
The race is perhaps the handsomest extant . 
To judge by the eye , there is no race more viable and yet death reaps them with both hands . 
Or take the valley of Hapaa , known to readers of Herman Melville under the grotesque misspelling of Hapar . 
The tribe of Hapaa is said to have numbered some four hundred , when the small pox came and reduced them by one fourth . 
A similar Adam and Eve may some day wither among new races , the tragic residue of Britain . 
When I first heard this story the date staggered me but I am now inclined to think it possible . 
And depopulation works both ways , the doors of death being set wide open , and the door of birth almost closed . 
Thus , in the half year ending July there were twelve deaths and but one birth in the district of the Hatiheu . 
Seven or eight more deaths were to be looked for in the ordinary course and M. Aussel , the observant gendarme , knew of but one likely birth . 
And the rate of decline must have even accelerated towards the end . 
A good way to appreciate the depopulation is to go by land from Anaho to Hatiheu on the adjacent bay . 
The road is good travelling , but cruelly steep . 
A bowl of mountains encloses it upon three sides . 
On the fourth this rampart has been bombarded into ruins , runs down to seaward in imminent and shattered crags , and presents the one practicable breach of the blue bay . 
The houses on the Hatiheu side begin high up higher yet , the more melancholy spectacle of empty paepaes . 
When a native habitation is deserted , the superstructure pandanus thatch , wattle , unstable tropical timber speedily rots , and is speedily scattered by the wind . 
Only the stones of the terrace endure nor can any ruin , cairn , or standing stone , or vitrified fort present a more stern appearance of antiquity . 
We must have passed from six to eight of these now houseless platforms . 
Such ruins are tapu in the strictest sense no native must approach them they have become outposts of the kingdom of the grave . 
It might appear a natural and pious custom in the hundreds who are left , the rearguard of perished thousands , that their feet should leave untrod these hearthstones of their fathers . 
I believe , in fact , the custom rests on different and more grim conceptions . 
But the house , the grave , and even the body of the dead , have been always particularly honoured by Marquesans . 
Until recently the corpse was sometimes kept in the family and daily oiled and sunned , until , by gradual and revolting stages , it dried into a kind of mummy . 
Offerings are still laid upon the grave . 
In Traitor's Bay , Mr. Osbourne saw a man buy a looking glass to lay upon his son's . 
And the sentiment against the desecration of tombs , thoughtlessly ruffled in the laying down of the new roads , is a chief ingredient in the native hatred for the French . 
The Marquesan beholds with dismay the approaching extinction of his race . 
Hanging is now the fashion . 
adjusted for the final act . 
Praise not any man till he is dead , said the ancients envy not any man till you hear the mourners , might be the Marquesan parody . 
The coffin , though of late introduction , strangely engages their attention . 
It is to the mature Marquesan what a watch is to the European schoolboy . 
I was told a droll instance of the force of this preoccupation . 
The Polynesians are subject to a disease seemingly rather of the will than of the body . 
I was told the Tahitians have a word for it , ERIMATUA , but cannot find it in my dictionary . 
, let us say , or braiding old men's beards . 
From all this it may be conceived how easily they meet death when it approaches naturally . 
I heard one example , grim and picturesque . 
This proneness to suicide , and loose seat in life , is not peculiar to the Marquesan . 
What is peculiar is the widespread depression and acceptance of the national end . 
Pleasures are neglected , the dance languishes , the songs are forgotten . 
It is true that some , and perhaps too many , of them are proscribed but many remain , if there were spirit to support or to revive them . 
At the last feast of the Bastille , Stanislao Moanatini shed tears when he beheld the inanimate performance of the dancers . 
When the people sang for us in Anaho , they must apologise for the smallness of their repertory . 
They were only young folk present , they said , and it was only the old that knew the songs . 
The whole body of Marquesan poetry and music was being suffered to die out with a single dispirited generation . 
a band of little stripling maids from eight to twelve keep up their minstrelsy for hours upon a stretch , one song following another without pause . 
In like manner , the Marquesan , never industrious , begins now to cease altogether from production . 
The exports of the group decline out of all proportion even with the death rate of the islanders . 
'The coral waxes , the palm grows , and man departs , says the Marquesan and he folds his hands . 
And surely this is nature . 
It is natural , also , that a temporary stimulus should sometimes rouse the Marquesan from his lethargy . 
Never before , in Mr. Regler's experience , had they displayed so much activity . 
In their despondency there is an element of dread . 
The fear of ghosts and of the dark is very deeply written in the mind of the Polynesian not least of the Marquesan . 
Poor Taipi , the chief of Anaho , was condemned to ride to Hatiheu on a moonless night . 
He borrowed a lantern , sat a long while nerving himself for the adventure , and when he at last departed , wrung the CASCOS by the hand as for a final separation . 
We may be sure at least they represent the dead for the dead , in the minds of the islanders , are all pervasive . 
'When a native says that he is a man , writes Dr . 
Codrington , 'he means that he is a man and not a ghost not that he is a man and not a beast . 
The intelligent agents of this world are to his mind the men who are alive , and the ghosts the men who are dead . 
Codrington speaks of Melanesia from what I have learned his words are equally true of the Polynesian . 
Among cannibal Polynesians a dreadful suspicion rests generally on the dead and the Marquesans , the greatest cannibals of all , are scarce likely to be free from similar beliefs . 
Another superstition I picked up through the troubled medium of Tari Coffin's English . 
, and must 'make a feast , of which fish , pig , and popoi were indispensable ingredients . 
So far this is clear enough . 
But here Tari went on to instance the new house of Toma and the house warming feast which was just then in preparation as instances in point . 
On the cannibal ghost I shall return elsewhere with certainty . 
And it is enough , for the present purpose , to remark that the men of the Marquesas , from whatever reason , fear and shrink from the presence of ghosts . 
In either case the end must be the same soon or late it must grow apparent that the crew are too numerous , and that famine is at hand . 
The Polynesians met this emergent danger with various expedients of activity and prevention . 
Meanwhile , over all the island world , abortion and infanticide prevailed . 
On coral atolls , where the danger was most plainly obvious , these were enforced by law and sanctioned by punishment . 
On Vaitupu , in the Ellices , only two children were allowed to a couple on Nukufetau , but one . 
On the latter the punishment was by fine and it is related that the fine was sometimes paid , and the child spared . 
'Happy is the man that has his quiver full of them . 
The stray bastard is contended for by rival families and the natural and the adopted children play and grow up together undistinguished . 
I have seen a Paumotuan native turn from me with embarrassment and disaffection because I suggested that a brat would be the better for a beating . 
It is a daily matter in some eastern islands to see a child strike or even stone its mother , and the mother , so far from punishing , scarce ventures to resist . 
In some , when his child was born , a chief was superseded and resigned his name as though , like a drone , he had then fulfilled the occasion of his being . 
And in some the lightest words of children had the weight of oracles . 
Only the other day , in the Marquesas , if a child conceived a distaste to any stranger , I am assured the stranger would be slain . 
With such sentiments the necessity for child destruction would not fail to clash , and I believe we find the trace of divided feeling in the Tahitian brotherhood of Oro . 
At a certain date a new god was added to the Society Island Olympus , or an old one refurbished and made popular . 
Oro was his name , and he may be compared with the Bacchus of the ancients . 
Their life was public and epicurean their initiation a mystery and the highest in the land aspired to join the brotherhood . 
Famine menacing the islands , and the needful remedy repulsive , it was recommended to the native mind by these trappings of mystery , pleasure , and parade . 
Here , then , we have one side of the case . 
And to day we are face to face with the reverse . 
To day in the Marquesas , in the Eight Islands of Hawaii , in Mangareva , in Easter Island , we find the same race perishing like flies . 
Thus I have heard the mortality of the Maoris attributed to their change of residence from fortified hill tops to the low , marshy vicinity of their plantations . 
How plausible ! And yet the Marquesans are dying out in the same houses where their fathers multiplied . 
Here is a strong case against opium . 
But let us take unchastity , and we shall find the Marquesas and Hawaii figuring again upon another count . 
So here is a case stronger still against unchastity and here also we have a correction to apply . 
Whatever the virtues of the Tahitian , neither friend nor enemy dares call him chaste and yet he seems to have outlived the time of danger . 
One last example syphilis has been plausibly credited with much of the sterility . 
But the Samoans are , by all accounts , as fruitful as at first by some accounts more so and it is not seriously to be argued that the Samoans have escaped syphilis . 
These examples show how dangerous it is to reason from any particular cause , or even from many in a single group . 
I have in my eye an able and amiable pamphlet by the Rev . 
Samoa is , for the moment , the main and the most instructive exception to the rule . 
The people are the most chaste and one of the most temperate of island peoples . 
They have never been tried and depressed with any grave pestilence . 
Lastly , and perhaps chiefly , so far from their amusements having been curtailed , I think they have been , upon the whole , extended . 
The melancholy of the Hawaiian and the emptiness of his new life are striking and the remark is yet more apposite to the Marquesas . 
In Samoa , on the other hand , perpetual song and dance , perpetual games , journeys , and pleasures , make an animated and a smiling picture of the island life . 
And the Samoans are to day the gayest and the best entertained inhabitants of our planet . 
The importance of this can scarcely be exaggerated . 
In a climate and upon a soil where a livelihood can be had for the stooping , entertainment is a prime necessity . 
It is from this point of view that we may instance , among other causes of depression , the decay of war . 
From this , as well as from the rest of his amusements and interests , the islander , upon a hundred islands , has been recently cut off . 
And to this , as well as to so many others , the Samoan still makes good a special title . 
Upon the whole , the problem seems to me to stand thus Where there have been fewest changes , important or unimportant , salutary or hurtful , there the race survives . 
Where there have been most , important or unimportant , salutary or hurtful , there it perishes . 
Each change , however small , augments the sum of new conditions to which the race has to become inured . 
There may seem , A PRIORI , no comparison between the change from 'sour toddy' to bad gin , and that from the island kilt to a pair of European trousers . 
Yet I am far from persuaded that the one is any more hurtful than the other and the unaccustomed race will sometimes die of pin pricks . 
We are here face to face with one of the difficulties of the missionary . 
In Polynesian islands he easily obtains pre eminent authority the king becomes his MAIREDUPALAIS he can proscribe , he can command and the temptation is ever towards too much . 
the Protestants in Hawaii , have rendered life in a more or less degree unliveable to their converts . 
It is easy to blame the missionary . 
But it is his business to make changes . 
It is surely his business , for example , to prevent war and yet I have instanced war itself as one of the elements of health . 
On the other hand , it were , perhaps , easy for the missionary to proceed more gently , and to regard every change as an affair of weight . 
that change of habit is bloodier than a bombardment . 
There is one point , ere I have done , where I may go to meet criticism . 
I have said nothing of faulty hygiene , bathing during fevers , mistaken treatment of children , native doctoring , or abortion all causes frequently adduced . 
And I have said nothing of them because they are conditions common to both epochs , and even more efficient in the past than in the present . 
Take the Hawaiian account of Cook I have no doubt it is entirely fair . 
Mr. Lawes , the missionary of Savage Island , told me the standard of female chastity had declined there since the coming of the whites . 
In heathen time , if a girl gave birth to a bastard , her father or brother would dash the infant down the cliffs and to day the scandal would be small . 
like dogs and the other day the whole school children of Nuka hiva and Ua pu escaped in a body to the woods , and lived there for a fortnight in promiscuous liberty . 
Readers of travels may perhaps exclaim at my authority , and declare themselves better informed . 
to the report of the most honest traveller . 
A ship of war comes to a haven , anchors , lands a party , receives and returns a visit , and the captain writes a chapter on the manners of the island . 
It is not considered what class is mostly seen . 
Yet we should not be pleased if a Lascar foremast hand were to judge England by the ladies who parade Ratcliffe Highway , and the gentlemen who share with them their hire . 
And so far as Marquesans are concerned , we might have hazarded a guess of some decline in manners . 
I do not think that any race could ever have prospered or multiplied with such as now obtain I am sure they would have been never at the pains to count paternal kinship . 
CHAPTER VI CHIEFS AND TAPUS WE used to admire exceedingly the bland and gallant manners of the chief called Taipi Kikino . 
He had enough to sober him , I thought , in his official budget . 
His expenses for he was always seen attired in virgin white must have by far exceeded his income of six dollars in the year , or say two shillings a month . 
And he was himself a man of no substance his house the poorest in the village . 
It was currently supposed that his elder brother , Kauanui , must have helped him out . 
on the ground that neither of them is a chief at all . 
Since the return and the wars of the French , many chiefs have been deposed , and many so called chiefs appointed . 
The deposition of the chiefs was perhaps sometimes needful the appointment of others may have been needful also it was at least a delicate business . 
The Government of George II . 
It never occurred to them to manufacture substitutes and if the French have been more bold , we have yet to see with what success . 
Our chief at Anaho was always called , he always called himself , Taipi Kikino and yet that was not his name , but only the wand of his false position . 
A nickname in Polynesia destroys almost the memory of the original name . 
To day , if we were Polynesians , Gladstone would be no more heard of . 
We should speak of and address our Nestor as the Grand Old Man , and it is so that himself would sign his correspondence . 
Not the prevalence , then , but the significancy of the nickname is to be noted here . 
The new authority began with small prestige . 
Taipi has now been some time in office from all I saw he seemed a person very fit . 
He is not the least unpopular , and yet his power is nothing . 
He is a chief to the French , and goes to breakfast with the Resident but for any practical end of chieftaincy a rag doll were equally efficient . 
Not many years have elapsed since he was seen striding on the beach of Anaho , a dead man's arm across his shoulder . 
'So does Kooamua to his enemies ! he roared to the passers by , and took a bite from the raw flesh . 
And now behold this gentleman , very wisely replaced in office by the French , paying us a morning visit in European clothes . 
Further acquaintance increased our opinion of his sense . 
When he departed he carried away with him a list of his family , with his own name printed by his own hand at the bottom . 
I should add that he was plainly much of a humorist , and not a little of a humbug . 
And not many days after he was to be observed in a state of smiling and lop sided imbecility , the CASCO ribbon upside down on his dishonoured hat . 
But his business that morning in Anaho is what concerns us here . 
He might recite the spell it was shrewdly supposed the spirits would not hearken . 
And so the old , legitimate cannibal must ride over the mountains to do it for him and the respectable official in white clothes could but look on and envy . 
At about the same time , though in a different manner , Kooamua established a forest law . 
It was observed the cocoa palms were suffering , for the plucking of green nuts impoverishes and at last endangers the tree . 
Now Kooamua could tapu the reef , which was public property , but he could not tapu other people's palms and the expedient adopted was interesting . 
He tapu'd his own trees , and his example was imitated over all Hatiheu and Anaho . 
I fear Taipi might have tapu'd all that he possessed and found none to follow him . 
So much for the esteem in which the dignity of an appointed chief is held by others a single circumstance will show what he thinks of it himself . 
I never met one , but he took an early opportunity to explain his situation . 
to excuse his mushroom honours . 
It will be observed with surprise that both these tapus are for thoroughly sensible ends . 
With surprise , I say , because the nature of that institution is much misunderstood in Europe . 
The error is no less natural than it is unjust . 
Many tapus were in consequence absurd enough , such as those which deleted words out of the language , and particularly those which related to women . 
Tapu encircled women upon all hands . 
Many things were forbidden to men to women we may say that few were permitted . 
Even a man's saddle , if the man be native , is a thing no self respecting lady dares to use . 
It will be noticed that these prohibitions tend , most of them , to an increased reserve between the sexes . 
Regard for female chastity is the usual excuse for these disabilities that men delight to lay upon their wives and mothers . 
And yet even then there were exceptions . 
But the tapu is more often the instrument of wise and needful restrictions . 
We have seen it as the organ of paternal government . 
It serves besides to enforce , in the rare case of some one wishing to enforce them , rights of private property . 
Anaho is known as 'the country without popoi . 
The word popoi serves in different islands to indicate the main food of the people thus , in Hawaii , it implies a preparation of taro in the Marquesas , of breadfruit . 
And a Marquesan does not readily conceive life possible without his favourite diet . 
Hence a continued traffic on the road . 
And on the far side of the gap a dozen stone posts on the wayside in the shadow of a grove mark the breathing space of the popoi carriers . 
A little back from the beach , and not half a mile from Anaho , I was the more amazed to find a cluster of well doing breadfruits heavy with their harvest . 
'Why do you not take these ? I asked . 
what children and fools these people were to toil over the mountain and despoil innocent neighbours when the staff of life was thus growing at their door . 
I was the more in error . 
In the general destruction these surviving trees were enough only for the family of the proprietor , and by the simple expedient of declaring a tapu he enforced his right . 
The sanction of the tapu is superstitious and the punishment of infraction either a wasting or a deadly sickness . 
A slow disease follows on the eating of tapu fish , and can only be cured with the bones of the same fish burned with the due mysteries . 
The cocoa nut and breadfruit tapu works more swiftly . 
This cure is prepared from the rubbed leaves of the tree from which the patient stole so that he cannot be saved without confessing to the Tahuku the person whom he wronged . 
I should add that he was no Marquesan , but a Chinaman , a resident in the group from boyhood , and a reverent believer in the spells which he described . 
The period is the same as in the Marquesas doubtless the symptoms were so too . 
Fitly enough , the belief is to day and was probably always far from universal . 
Mr. Regler has seen the two extremes of scepticism and implicit fear . 
The other case was opposed in every point . 
The Marquesan , it will be observed , adheres to the old idea of the local circumscription of beliefs and duties . 
Not only are the whites exempt from consequences but their transgressions seem to be viewed without horror . 
It was Mr. Regler who had killed the fish yet the devout native was not shocked at Mr. Regler only refused to join him in his boat . 
of other and more liberal gods and not to be blamed if he profit by his liberty . 
The Jews were perhaps the first to interrupt this ancient comity of faiths and the Jewish virus is still strong in Christianity . 
All the world must respect our tapus , or we gnash our teeth . 
We had that day a native crew and steersman , Kauanui it was our first experience of Polynesian seamanship , which consists in hugging every point of land . 
There is no thought in this of saving time , for they will pull a long way in to skirt a point that is embayed . 
It seems that , as they can never get their houses near enough the surf upon the one side , so they can never get their boats near enough upon the other . 
The practice in bold water is not so dangerous as it looks the reflex from the rocks sending the boat off . 
Near beaches with a heavy run of sea , I continue to think it very hazardous , and find the composure of the natives annoying to behold . 
We took unmingled pleasure , on the way out , to see so near at hand the beach and the wonderful colours of the surf . 
On the way back , when the sea had risen and was running strong against us , the fineness of the steersman's aim grew more embarrassing . 
Their faces were all puffed out like apples as we came abreast of the cliff foot , and the bursting surge fell back into the boat in showers . 
At the next point 'cocanetti' was the word , and the stroke borrowed my knife , and desisted from his labours to open nuts . 
These untimely indulgences may be compared to the tot of grog served out before a ship goes into action . 
My purpose in this visit led me first to the boys' school , for Hatiheu is the university of the north islands . 
The hum of the lesson came out to meet us . 
The brother rose to greet us , sensibly humble . 
Thirty years he had been there , he said , and fingered his white locks as a bashful child pulls out his pinafore . 
'ET POINT DE RESULTATS , MONSIEUR , PRESQUE PAS DE RESULTATS . 
He pointed to the scholars 'You see , sir , all the youth of Nuka hiva and Ua pu . 
Between the ages of six and fifteen this is all that remains and it is but a few years since we had a hundred and twenty from Nuka hiva alone . 
OUI , MONSIEUR , CELA SE DEPERIT . 
Prayers , and reading and writing , prayers again and arithmetic , and more prayers to conclude such appeared to be the dreary nature of the course . 
For arithmetic all island people have a natural taste . 
In Hawaii they make good progress in mathematics . 
The trader , finding them so apt , introduced fractions , for which they had been taught no rule . 
At first they were quite gravelled but ultimately , by sheer hard thinking , reasoned out the result , and came one after another to assure the trader he was right . 
Not many people in Europe could have done the like . 
I had not the heart to put more questions I could but say it must be very discouraging , and resist the impulse to add that it seemed also very natural . 
He looked up 'My days are far spent , he said 'heaven awaits me . 
May that heaven forgive me , but I was angry with the old man and his simple consolation . 
The sisters themselves lament their failure . 
They complain the annual holiday undoes the whole year's work they complain particularly of the heartless indifference of the girls . 
Out of so many pretty and apparently affectionate pupils whom they have taught and reared , only two have ever returned to pay a visit of remembrance to their teachers . 
These , indeed , come regularly , but the rest , so soon as their school days are over , disappear into the woods like captive insects . 
It is hard to imagine anything more discouraging and yet I do not believe these ladies need despair . 
For a certain interval they keep the girls alive and innocently busy and if it be at all possible to save the race , this would be the means . 
No such praise can be given to the boys' school at Hatiheu . 
The day is numbered already for them all alike for the teacher and the scholars death is girt he is afoot upon the march and in the frequent interval they sit and yawn . 
But in life there seems a thread of purpose through the least significant the drowsiest endeavour is not lost , and even the school at Hatiheu may be more useful than it seems . 
Hatiheu is a place of some pretensions . 
No more singular contrast is possible than between the gendarmerie and the priesthood , who are besides in smouldering opposition and full of mutual complaints . 
But you will never dine with a gendarme without smacking your lips and M. Aussel's home made sausage and the salad from his garden are unforgotten delicacies . 
Pierre Loti may like to know that he is M. Aussel's favourite author , and that his books are read in the fit scenery of Hatiheu bay . 
The other end is all religious . 
But Hatiheu must have been a place of missionary importance from before . 
About midway of the beach no less than three churches stand grouped in a patch of bananas , intermingled with some pine apples . 
Two are of wood the original church , now in disuse and a second that , for some mysterious reason , has never been used . 
The new church is of stone , with twin towers , walls flangeing into buttresses , and sculptured front . 
The design itself is good , simple , and shapely but the character is all in the detail , where the architect has bloomed into the sculptor . 
that stand guard upon the door , of the cherubs in the corners , of the scapegoat gargoyles , or the quaint and spirited relief , where St . 
makes short work of a protesting Lucifer . 
We were never weary of viewing the imagery , so innocent , sometimes so funny , and yet in the best sense in the sense of inventive gusto and expression so artistic . 
Paul , of the West Kirk . 
Almost at the first word I was sure it was my architect , and in a moment we were deep in a discussion of Hatiheu church . 
I asked if he had any model a point we much discussed . 
'NON , said he simply 'C'EST UNE EGLISE IDEALE . 
The relievo was his favourite performance , and very justly so . 
The angels at the door , he owned , he would like to destroy and replace . 
'ILS N'ONT PAS DE VIE , ILS MANQUENT DE VIE . 
VOUS DEVRIEZ VOIR MON EGLISE A LA DOMINIQUE J'AI LA UNE VIERGE QUI EST VRAIMENT GENTILLE . 
'Ah , I cried , 'they told me you had said you would never build another church , and I wrote in my journal I could not believe it . 
'OUI , J'AIMERAIS BIEN EN FAIRS UNE AUTRE , he confessed , and smiled at the confession . 
An artist will understand how much I was attracted by this conversation . 
There is no bond so near as a community in that unaffected interest and slightly shame faced pride which mark the intelligent man enamoured of an art . 
He sees the limitations of his aim , the defects of his practice he smiles to be so employed upon the shores of death , yet sees in his own devotion something worthy . 
Artists , if they had the same sense of humour with the Augurs , would smile like them on meeting , but the smile would not be scornful . 
I had occasion to see much of this excellent man . 
He sailed with us from Tai o hae to Hiva oa , a dead beat of ninety miles against a heavy sea . 
It was what is called a good passage , and a feather in the CASCO'S cap but among the most miserable forty hours that any one of us had ever passed . 
We were swung and tossed together all that time like shot in a stage thunder box . 
The mate was thrown down and had his head cut open the captain was sick on deck the cook sick in the galley . 
Of all our party only two sat down to dinner . 
I own that I felt wretchedly and I can only say of the other , who professed to feel quite well , that she fled at an early moment from the table . 
The place persists , in a dark corner of our memories , like a piece of the scenery of nightmares . 
The end of this distressful passage , where we were to land our passengers , was in a similar vein of roughness . 
The surf ran high on the beach at Taahauku the boat broached to and capsized and all hands were submerged . 
Only the brother himself , who was well used to the experience , skipped ashore , by some miracle of agility , with scarce a sprinkling . 
He became their carpenter , mason , architect , and engineer added sculpture to his accomplishments , and was famous for his skill in gardening . 
It was midwinter when we came thither , and the weather was sultry , boisterous , and inconstant . 
Now the wind blew squally from the land down gaps of splintered precipice now , between the sentinel islets of the entry , it came in gusts from seaward . 
with the unfurling of her flag , and salutes the setting sun with the report of a musket . 
, a handful of whites of varying nationality , mostly French officials , German and Scottish merchant clerks , and the agents of the opium monopoly . 
It is a pleasant society , and a hospitable . 
But one man , who was often to be seen seated on the logs at the pier head , merits a word for the singularity of his history and appearance . 
Long ago , it seems , he fell in love with a native lady , a High Chiefess in Ua pu . 
He had certainly to bear a great expense , for the Tahuku will not work without reward and certainly exquisite pain . 
Our enamoured countryman was more resolved he was tattooed from head to foot in the most approved methods of the art and at last presented himself before his mistress a new man . 
The fickle fair one could never behold him from that day except with laughter . 
The Residency stands by itself , Calaboose Hill screening it from the fringe of town along the further bay . 
The house is commodious , with wide verandahs all day it stands open , back and front , and the trade blows copiously over its bare floors . 
English and Scottish sleep there , and Scandinavians , and French MAITRES DE MANOEUVRES and MAITRES OUVRIERS mingling alien dust . 
the island nightingale , will be singing home strains and the ceaseless requiem of the surf hangs on the ear . 
On the summit of its promontory hill , the calaboose stands all day with doors and window shutters open to the trade . 
On my first visit a dog was the only guardian visible . 
There was one legend in French 'JE N'EST' 'PAS LE SOU . 
From this noontide quietude it must not be supposed the prison was untenanted the calaboose at Tai o hae does a good business . 
would go through the form of locking them up until six the next morning . 
But this is not all . 
The charming French Resident , M. Delaruelle , carried me one day to the calaboose on an official visit . 
In the green court , a very ragged gentleman , his legs deformed with the island elephantiasis , saluted us smiling . 
'One of our political prisoners an insurgent from Raiatea , said the Resident and then to the jailer 'I thought I had ordered him a new pair of trousers . 
To complete the picture of convict life in Tai o hae , it remains to be added that these criminals draw a salary as regularly as the President of the Republic . 
Ten sous a day is their hire . 
Thus they have money , food , shelter , clothing , and , I was about to write , their liberty . 
The French are certainly a good natured people , and make easy masters . 
They are besides inclined to view the Marquesans with an eye of humorous indulgence . 
'They are dying , poor devils ! said M. Delaruelle 'the main thing is to let them die in peace . 
And it was not only well said , but I believe expressed the general thought . 
Yet there is another element to be considered for these convicts are not merely useful , they are almost essential to the French existence . 
Theft is practically the sole crime . 
Originally petty pilferers , the men of Tai o hae now begin to force locks and attack strong boxes . 
And now comes the shameful part . 
To keep him alone , day and night , in the black hole , is to inflict on the Marquesan torture inexpressible . 
While we were in Tai o hae a thief was under prevention . 
From one cache , which he had already pointed out , three hundred francs had been recovered , and it was expected that he would presently disgorge the rest . 
This would be ugly enough if it were all but I am bound to say , because it is a matter the French should set at rest , that worse is continually hinted . 
I do not know this . 
on a misconstruction of that ingenious cat's cradle with which the French agent of police so readily secures a prisoner . 
is comparatively free , and positively pleasant . 
Perhaps worse still , not only the accused , but sometimes his wife , his mistress , or his friend , is subjected to the same hardships . 
The main occasion of these thefts is the new vice of opium eating . 
'Here nobody ever works , and all eat opium , said a gendarme and Ah Fu knew a woman who ate a dollar's worth in a day . 
A trader , who did not sell opium , confessed to me that he was at his wit's end . 
'I do not sell it , but others do , said he . 
And why should they be at the bother of two walks ? There is no use talking , he added 'opium is the currency of this country . 
The man under prevention during my stay at Tai o hae lost patience while the Chinese opium seller was being examined in his presence . 
'Of course he sold me opium ! he broke out 'all the Chinese here sell opium . 
It was only to buy opium that I stole it is only to buy opium that anybody steals . 
And what you ought to do is to let no opium come here , and no Chinamen . 
This is precisely what is done in Samoa by a native Government but the French have bound their own hands , and for forty thousand francs sold native subjects to crime and death . 
This horrid traffic may be said to have sprung up by accident . 
French officials shake their heads when opium is mentioned and the agents of the farmer blush for their employment . 
Those that live in glass houses should not throw stones as a subject of the British crown , I am an unwilling shareholder in the largest opium business under heaven . 
But the British case is highly complicated it implies the livelihood of millions and must be reformed , when it can be reformed at all , with prudence . 
This French business , on the other hand , is a nostrum and a mere excrescence . 
No native industry was to be encouraged the poison is solemnly imported . 
No native habit was to be considered the vice has been gratuitously introduced . 
And no creature profits , save the Government at Papeete the not very enviable gentlemen who pay them , and the Chinese underlings who do the dirty work . 
CHAPTER IX THE HOUSE OF TEMOANA THE history of the Marquesas is , of late years , much confused by the coming and going of the French . 
At least twice they have seized the archipelago , at least once deserted it and in the meanwhile the natives pursued almost without interruption their desultory cannibal wars . 
Through these events and changing dynasties , a single considerable figure may be seen to move that of the high chief , a king , Temoana . 
His widow remains in receipt of two pounds a month from the French Government . 
Queen she is usually called , but in the official almanac she figures as 'MADAME VAEKEHU , GRANDE CHEFESSE . 
These , then , are the greatest folk of the archipelago we thought them also the most estimable . 
He scrapes acquaintance as he can . 
Save the tattoo in the Marquesas , nothing indicates the difference of rank and yet almost invariably we found , after we had made them , that our friends were persons of station . 
I have said 'usually taller and stronger . 
The usual explanation that the high born child is more industriously shampooed , is probably the true one . 
In New Caledonia , at least , where the difference does not exist , has never been remarked , the practice of shampooing seems to be itself unknown . 
Doctors would be well employed in a study of the point . 
Vaekehu lives at the other end of the town from the Residency , beyond the buildings of the mission . 
Her house is on the European plan a table in the midst of the chief room photographs and religious pictures on the wall . 
delight to sing their language . 
An adopted daughter interpreted , while we gave the news , and rehearsed by name our friends of Anaho . 
Vaekehu is very deaf 'MERCI' is her only word of French and I do not know that she seemed clever . 
An exquisite , kind refinement , with a shade of quietism , gathered perhaps from the nuns , was what chiefly struck us . 
Or rather , upon that first occasion , we were conscious of a sense as of district visiting on our part , and reduced evangelical gentility on the part of our hostess . 
The other impression followed after she was more at ease , and came with Stanislao and his little girl to dine on board the CASCO . 
No attention was paid to the child , for instance , but what she remarked and thanked us for . 
Her parting with each , when she came to leave , was gracious and pretty , as had been every step of her behaviour . 
The next moment she had taken Stanislao's arm , and they moved off along the pier in the moonlight , leaving me bewildered . 
in a score of country houses . 
Only Vaekehu's mittens were of dye , not of silk and they had been paid for , not in money , but the cooked flesh of men . 
But when I asked Stanislao 'Ah ! said he , 'she is content she is religious , she passes all her days with the sisters . 
was sent by Bishop Dordillon to South America , and there educated by the fathers . 
His French is fluent , his talk sensible and spirited , and in his capacity of ganger in chief , he is of excellent service to the French . 
With the prestige of his name and family , and with the stick when needful , he keeps the natives working and the roads passable . 
And yet though the hereditary favourer , and one of the chief props of French authority , he has always an eye upon the past . 
The drum beat of the Polynesian has a strange and gloomy stimulation for the nerves of all . 
White persons feel it at these precipitate sounds their hearts beat faster and , according to old residents , its effect on the natives was extreme . 
Bishop Dordillon might entreat Temoana himself command and threaten at the note of the drum wild instincts triumphed . 
The decline of the dance Stanislao especially laments . 
All his criticisms of the present , all his regrets for the past , struck me as temperate and sensible . 
The short term of office of the Resident he thought the chief defect of the administration that officer having scarce begun to be efficient ere he was recalled . 
I thought I gathered , too , that he regarded with some fear the coming change from a naval to a civil governor . 
There was a deal , in this elaborate modesty , of honest pride . 
Yet there was something in the precaution that saddened me and I could not but fear he was only forestalling a taunt that he had heard too often . 
I recall with interest two interviews with Stanislao . 
He was naturally ignorant of English history , so that I had much of news to communicate . 
He was intent to hear his brown face , strongly marked with small pox , kindled and changed with each vicissitude . 
His eyes glowed with the reflected light of battle his questions were many and intelligent , and it was chiefly these that sent us so often to the map . 
But it is of our parting that I keep the strongest sense . 
We were to sail on the morrow , and the night had fallen , dark , gusty , and rainy , when we stumbled up the hill to bid farewell to Stanislao . 
He had already loaded us with gifts but more were waiting . 
For there was something painful and embarrassing in the kindness of that separation . 
'AH , VOUS DEVRIEZ RESTER ICI , MON CHER AMI ! cried Stanislao . 
'VOUS ETES LES GENS QU'IL FAUT POUR LES KANAQUES VOUS ETES DOUX , VOUS ET VOTRE FAMILLE VOUS SERIEZ OBEIS DANS TOUTES LES ILES . 
His words , if there were any , were drowned by the rain and the loud surf . 
I have mentioned presents , a vexed question in the South Seas and one which well illustrates the common , ignorant habit of regarding races in a lump . 
In many quarters the Polynesian gives only to receive . 
'You all 'e same my father , must be received with hearty laughter and a shout . 
And perhaps everywhere , among the greedy and rapacious , a gift is regarded as a sprat to catch a whale . 
It is the habit to give gifts and to receive returns , and such characters , complying with the custom , will look to it nearly that they do not lose . 
But for persons of a different stamp the statement must be reversed . 
The shabby Polynesian is anxious till he has received the return gift the generous is uneasy until he has made it . 
The first is disappointed if you have not given more than he the second is miserable if he thinks he has given less than you . 
I will give one instance I chanced to speak with consideration of these gifts of Stanislao's with a certain clever man , a great hater and contemner of Kanakas . 
'Well ! what were they ? he cried . 
'A pack of old men's beards . 
But generosity on the one hand , and conspicuous meanness on the other , are in the South Seas , as at home , the exception . 
It is neither with any hope of gain , nor with any lively wish to please , that the ordinary Polynesian chooses and presents his gifts . 
A plain social duty lies before him , which he performs correctly , but without the least enthusiasm . 
And we shall best understand his attitude of mind , if we examine our own to the cognate absurdity of marriage presents . 
There we give without any special thought of a return yet if the circumstance arise , and the return be withheld , we shall judge ourselves insulted . 
And the practice of marking and measuring events and sentiments by presents is universal in the island world . 
A gift plays with them the part of stamp and seal and has entered profoundly into the mind of islanders . 
Everywhere in the islands , among all classes and races , this fine , old , kindly , cheerful fellow is remembered with affection and respect . 
His influence with the natives was paramount . 
During the time of the French exodus he singly represented Europe , living in the Residency , and ruling by the hand of Temoana . 
The first roads were made under his auspices and by his persuasion . 
There seems some truth at least in the common view , that this joint reign of Temoana and the bishop was the last and brief golden age of the Marquesas . 
But the civil power returned , the mission was packed out of the Residency at twenty four hours' notice , new methods supervened , and the golden age came to an end . 
It is the strongest proof of Father Dordillon's prestige that it survived , seemingly without loss , this hasty deposition . 
His method with the natives was extremely mild . 
Among these barbarous children he still played the part of the smiling father and he was careful to observe , in all indifferent matters , the Marquesan etiquette . 
Thus , in the singular system of artificial kinship , the bishop had been adopted by Vaekehu as a grandson Miss Fisher , of Hatiheu , as a daughter . 
From that day , Monseigneur never addressed the young lady except as his mother , and closed his letters with the formalities of a dutiful son . 
With Europeans he could be strict , even to the extent of harshness . 
But even this rigour , so intolerable to laymen , so irritating to Protestants , could not shake his popularity . 
Much such a man , it seems , was Father Dordillon . 
And his popularity bore a test yet stronger . 
He had the name , and probably deserved it , of a shrewd man in business and one that made the mission pay . 
Nothing so much stirs up resentment as the inmixture in commerce of religious bodies but even rival traders spoke well of Monseigneur . 
His character is best portrayed in the story of the days of his decline . 
Another step of decay , and he must leave his garden also . 
Instantly a new occupation was devised , and he sat in the mission cutting paper flowers and wreaths . 
His diocese was not great enough for his activity the churches of the Marquesas were papered with his handiwork , and still he must be making more . 
which he would have preferred to any useless tears . 
Those who have a taste for hearing missions , Protestant or Catholic , decried , must seek their pleasure elsewhere than in my pages . 
This is a subject which will follow us throughout but there is one part of it that may conveniently be treated here . 
The married and the celibate missionary , each has his particular advantage and defect . 
The mind of the female missionary tends , for instance , to be continually busied about dress . 
is as fresh as a lady at a ball . 
For the diet there is nothing to be said it must amaze and shock the Polynesian but for the adoption of native habits there is much . 
I have heard the bishop blamed for his indulgence to the natives , and above all because he did not rage with sufficient energy against cannibalism . 
And it might be better , in the long run , if this policy were always followed . 
It might be supposed that native missionaries would prove more indulgent , but the reverse is found to be the case . 
The new broom sweeps clean and the white missionary of to day is often embarrassed by the bigotry of his native coadjutor . 
To call things by their proper names , this is teaching superstition . 
The best specimen of the Christian hero that I ever met was one of these native missionaries . 
A poor little smiling laborious man he looked and you would have thought he had nothing in him but that of which indeed he had too much facile good nature . 
It chances that the only rivals of Monseigneur and his mission in the Marquesas were certain of these brown skinned evangelists , natives from Hawaii . 
On board of these was Kauwealoha , one of the pastors , a fine , rugged old gentleman , of that leonine type so common in Hawaii . 
The captive , with his arms bound behind his back , was cast into a house and the chief announced the capture to Kekela . 
And here I begin to follow the version of Kauwealoha it is a good specimen of Kanaka English and the reader is to conceive it delivered with violent emphasis and speaking pantomime . 
I got 'Melican mate , the chief he say . 
What you go do 'Melican mate ? Kekela he say . 
I go make fire , I go kill , I go eat him , he say you come to mollow eat piece . 
I no WANT eat 'Melican mate ! Kekela he say why you want ? This bad shippee , this slave shippee , the chief he say . 
One time a shippee he come from Pelu , he take away plenty Kanaka , he take away my son . 
'Melican mate he bad man . 
I go eat him you eat piece . 
He say chief Chief , you like things of mine ? you like whale boat ? Yes , he say . 
You like file a'm ? . 
You like blackee coat ? Yes , he say . 
, he take him light out house he give chief he whale boat , he file a'm , he blackee coat . 
He take Missa Whela he house , make him sit down with he wife and chil'en . 
he wife , he chil'en in Amelica he cly O , he cly . 
One day Kekela he see ship . 
He say Missa Whela , Ma' Whala ? Missa Whela he say , Yes . 
Kanaka they begin go down beach . 
Kekela he get eleven Kanaka , get oa' , get evely thing . 
He say Missa Whela , Now you go quick . 
They jump in whale boat . 
All the Kanaka they say , How ! 'Melican mate he go away ? jump in boat low afta . 
In return for his act of gallant charity , Kekela was presented by the American Government with a sum of money , and by President Lincoln personally with a gold watch . 
From his letter of thanks , written in his own tongue , I give the following extract . 
I do not envy the man who can read it without emotion . 
I gave my boat for the stranger's life . 
This boat came from James Hunnewell , a gift of friendship . 
It became the ransom of this countryman of yours , that he might not be eaten by the savages who knew not Jehovah . 
This was Mr. Whalon , and the date , Jan . 
, one three , three one . 
'This is a great thing for your great nation to boast of , before all the nations of the earth . 
From your great land a most precious seed was brought to the land of darkness . 
It was planted here , not by means of guns and men of war and threatening . 
It was planted by means of the ignorant , the neglected , the despised . 
Such was the introduction of the word of the Almighty God into this group of Nuuhiwa . 
Great is my debt to Americans , who have taught me all things pertaining to this life and to that which is to come . 
'How shall I repay your great kindness to me ? Thus David asked of Jehovah , and thus I ask of you , the President of the United States . 
This is my only payment that which I have received of the Lord , love . 
And yet we ourselves make much the same appearance in the eyes of the Buddhist and the vegetarian . 
rolls them into the sun to burst he is the terror of the shepherd . 
to the conclusion that the CASCO was going down , and swim through the flush water to the rail in search of an escape . 
Upon such 'dread foundations' the life of the European reposes , and yet the European is among the less cruel of races . 
Some will be even crying out upon me in their hearts for the coarseness of this paragraph . 
And so with the island cannibals . 
In island circles of refinement it was doubtless thought bad taste to expatiate on what was ugly in the practice . 
Hawaii is the most doubtful . 
In Tahiti , a single circumstance survived , but that appears conclusive . 
In historic times , when human oblation was made in the marae , the eyes of the victim were formally offered to the chief a delicacy to the leading guest . 
At last , in some manuscript notes of Dr . 
Turner's , which I was allowed to consult at Malua , I came on one damning evidence on the island of Onoatoa the punishment for theft was to be killed and eaten . 
When our stores ran low among the islands , I grew to weary for the recurrent day when economy allowed us to open another tin of miserable mutton . 
Add to this the evidences of over population and imminent famine already adduced , and I think we see some ground of indulgence for the island cannibal . 
It is right to look at both sides of any question but I am far from making the apology of this worse than bestial vice . 
It lingered only in some low islands where life was difficult to maintain , and among inveterate savages like the New Zealanders or the Marquesans . 
To day they are paying the penalty of this bloody commixture . 
And now it has been found needful to forbid the art . 
Their songs and dances were numerous . 
They now face empty handed the tedium of their uneventful days and who shall pity them ? The least rigorous will say that they were justly served . 
Death alone could not satisfy Marquesan vengeance the flesh must be eaten . 
The chief who seized Mr. Whalon preferred to eat him and he thought he had justified the wish when he explained it was a vengeance . 
Two or three years ago , the people of a valley seized and slew a wretch who had offended them . 
The body was accordingly divided and every man retired to his own house to consummate the rite in secret , carrying his proportion of the dreadful meat in a Swedish match box . 
The barbarous substance of the drama and the European properties employed offer a seizing contrast to the imagination . 
Yet more striking is another incident of the very year when I was there myself , . 
In the spring , a man and woman skulked about the school house in Hiva oa till they found a particular child alone . 
Him they approached with honeyed words and carneying manners 'You are So and so , son of So and so ? they asked and caressed and beguiled him deeper in the woods . 
Some instinct woke in the child's bosom , or some look betrayed the horrid purpose of his deceivers . 
He sought to break from them he screamed and they , casting off the mask , seized him the more strongly and began to run . 
His cries were heard his schoolmates , playing not far off , came running to the rescue and the sinister couple fled and vanished in the woods . 
They were never identified no prosecution followed but it was currently supposed they had some grudge against the boy's father , and designed to eat him in revenge . 
All over the islands , as at home among our own ancestors , it will be observed that the avenger takes no particular heed to strike an individual . 
A family , a class , a village , a whole valley or island , a whole race of mankind , share equally the guilt of any member . 
Two men had awakened the animosity of the Jaluit chiefs and it was their wives who were selected to be punished . 
A single native served as executioner . 
Early in the morning , in the face of a large concourse of spectators , he waded out upon the reef between his victims . 
held them under water till they drowned . 
Doubtless , although my informant did not tell me so , their families would be lamenting aloud upon the beach . 
It was from Hatiheu that I paid my first visit to a cannibal high place . 
The day was sultry and clouded . 
Drenching tropical showers succeeded bursts of sweltering sunshine . 
The green pathway of the road wound steeply upward . 
Each in its own district , the septs lived cantoned and beleaguered . 
One step without the boundaries was to affront death . 
Nor was the pointed occasion needful . 
A dozen different natural signs and social junctures called this people to the war path and the cannibal hunt . 
It appears besides that occasionally , perhaps in famine , the priest would shut himself in his house , where he lay for a stated period like a person dead . 
When he came forth it was to run for three days through the territory of the clan , naked and starving , and to sleep at night alone in the high place . 
It was now the turn of the others to keep the house , for to encounter the priest upon his rounds was death . 
I have this tale of the priest on one authority I think a good one , but I set it down with diffidence . 
The particulars are so striking that , had they been true , I almost think I must have heard them oftener referred to . 
Upon one point there seems to be no question that the feast was sometimes furnished from within the clan . 
In times of scarcity , all who were not protected by their family connections in the Highland expression , all the commons of the clan had cause to tremble . 
It was vain to resist , it was useless to flee . 
At a certain corner of the road our scholar guide struck off to his left into the twilight of the forest . 
As far as my eyes could pierce through the dark undergrowth , the floor of the forest was all paved . 
No trace remained of any superstructure , and the scheme of the amphitheatre was difficult to seize . 
In the old days the high place was sedulously tended . 
No tree except the sacred banyan was suffered to encroach upon its grades , no dead leaf to rot upon the pavement . 
The stones were smoothly set , and I am told they were kept bright with oil . 
On all sides the guardians lay encamped in their subsidiary huts to watch and cleanse it . 
There were places for the chiefs , the drummers , the dancers , the women , and the priests . 
The drums perhaps twenty strong , and some of them twelve feet high continuously throbbed in time . 
The sense of time , in all these ocean races , is extremely perfect and I conceive in such a festival that almost every sound and movement fell in one . 
It is told that the feasts were long kept up the people came from them brutishly exhausted with debauchery , and the chiefs heavy with their beastly food . 
There are certain sentiments which we call emphatically human denying the honour of that name to those who lack them . 
And yet it was strange . 
The bearing of the priest , perhaps , affected me . 
Centuries might have come and gone since this slimy theatre was last in operation and I beheld the place with no more emotion than I might have felt in visiting Stonehenge . 
We may here recognise the temperate and sagacious mind of Bishop Dordillon . 
CHAPTER XII THE STORY OF A PLANTATION TAAHAUKU , on the south westerly coast of the island of Hiva oa Tahuku , say the slovenly whites may be called the port of Atuona . 
They are reckoned at no higher than four thousand feet but Tahiti with eight thousand , and Hawaii with fifteen , can offer no such picture of abrupt , melancholy alps . 
Towards afternoon , the light falls more obliquely , and the sculpture of the range comes in relief , huge gorges sinking into shadow , huge , tortuous buttresses standing edged with sun . 
At all hours of the day they strike the eye with some new beauty , and the mind with the same menacing gloom . 
The mountains , dividing and deflecting the endless airy deluge of the Trade , are doubtless answerable for the climate . 
A strong draught of wind blew day and night over the anchorage . 
Day and night the same fantastic and attenuated clouds fled across the heavens , the same dusky cap of rain and vapour fell and rose on the mountain . 
The land breezes came very strong and chill , and the sea , like the air , was in perpetual bustle . 
On the side away from Atuona , the sheltering promontory was a nursery of coco trees . 
Some were mere infants , none had attained to any size , none had yet begun to shoot skyward with that whip like shaft of the mature palm . 
In the young trees the colour alters with the age and growth . 
In this young wood of Taahauku , all these hues and combinations were exampled and repeated by the score . 
The trees grew pleasantly spaced upon a hilly sward , here and there interspersed with a rack for drying copra , or a tumble down hut for storing it . 
At the upper end of the inlet , its low , cliffy lining sinks , at both sides , into a beach . 
, and beyond , of a grove of noble palms , sheltering the house of the trader , Mr. Keane . 
Farther on , the floor of the valley is flat and green , and dotted here and there with stripling coco palms . 
A vale more rich and peaceful , sweeter air , a sweeter voice of rural sounds , I have found nowhere . 
One circumstance alone might strike the experienced here is a convenient beach , deep soil , good water , and yet nowhere any paepaes , nowhere any trace of island habitation . 
It is but a few years since this valley was a place choked with jungle , the debatable land and battle ground of cannibals . 
Two clans laid claim to it neither could substantiate the claim , and the roads lay desert , or were only visited by men in arms . 
It is for this very reason that it wears now so smiling an appearance cleared , planted , built upon , supplied with railways , boat houses , and bath houses . 
For , being no man's land , it was the more readily ceded to a stranger . 
The stranger was Captain John Hart Ima Hati , 'Broken arm , the natives call him , because when he first visited the islands his arm was in a sling . 
Mr. Stewart was somewhat averse to the adventure , having some acquaintance with Atuona and its notorious chieftain , Moipu . 
He had once landed there , he told me , about dusk , and found the remains of a man and woman partly eaten . 
On his starting and sickening at the sight , one of Moipu's young men picked up a human foot , and provocatively staring at the stranger , grinned and nibbled at the heel . 
'It was always a bad place , Atuona , commented Mr. Stewart , in his homely Fifeshire voice . 
In spite of this dire introduction , he accepted the captain's offer , was landed at Taahauku with three Chinamen , and proceeded to clear the jungle . 
There was no genuine fighting it was like a bicker of schoolboys , only some fool had given the children guns . 
One man died of his exertions in running , the only casualty . 
With night the shots and insults ceased the men of Haamau withdrew and victory , on some occult principle , was scored to Moipu . 
Perhaps , in consequence , there came a day when Moipu made a feast , and a party from Haamau came under safe conduct to eat of it . 
These passed early by Taahauku , and some of Moipu's young men were there to be a guard of honour . 
They were not long gone before there came down from Haamau , a man , his wife , and a girl of twelve , their daughter , bringing fungus . 
Several Atuona lads were hanging round the store but the day being one of truce none apprehended danger . 
Thus horrible from crime , the party returned to Atuona , carrying the heads to Moipu . 
It may be fancied how the feast broke up but it is notable that the guests were honourably suffered to retire . 
That night the store was gutted , and the bodies cast in a pit and covered with leaves . 
That night the feast began . 
Those who knew Mr. Stewart before this experience declare the man to be quite altered . 
ostentatiously practised rifle shooting by day upon the beach . 
I was told the late French war was a case in point the tribes on the beach accusing those in the mountains of designs which they had never the hardihood to entertain . 
And the same testimony to their backwardness in open battle reached me from all sides . 
It is true these wars were often merely formal comparable with duels to the first blood . 
Captain Hart visited a bay where such a war was being carried on between two brothers , one of whom had been thought wanting in civility to the guests of the other . 
About one half of the population served day about on alternate sides , so as to be well with each when the inevitable peace should follow . 
The forts of the belligerents were over against each other , and close by . 
Well oiled braves , with well oiled muskets , strutted on the paepae or sat down to feast . 
No business , however needful , could be done , and all thoughts were supposed to be centred in this mockery of war . 
A few days later , by a regrettable accident , a man was killed it was felt at once the thing had gone too far , and the quarrel was instantly patched up . 
The foot of the cliffs , about all these islands , is the place of fishing . 
There they would angle much of the morning and as fast as they caught any fish , eat them , raw and living , where they stood . 
It was such helpless ones that the warriors from the opposite island of Tauata slew , and carried home and ate , and were thereupon accounted mighty men of valour . 
Of one such exploit I can give the account of an eye witness . 
'Portuguese Joe , Mr. Keane's cook , was once pulling an oar in an Atuona boat , when they spied a stranger in a canoe with some fish and a piece of tapu . 
The Atuona men cried upon him to draw near and have a smoke . 
A few questions followed , as to where he came from , and what was his business . 
These he must needs answer , as he must needs draw at the unwelcome pipe , his heart the while drying in his bosom . 
Whereupon the long pig was hauled on board , the boat's head turned about for Atuona , and these Marquesan braves pulled home rejoicing . 
Moipu was on the beach and rejoiced with them on their arrival . 
Poor Joe toiled at his oar that day with a white face , yet he had no fear for himself . 
'They were very good to me gave me plenty grub never wished to eat white man , said he . 
If the most horrible experience was Mr. Stewart's , it was Captain Hart himself who ran the nearest danger . 
He had bought a piece of land from Timau , chief of a neighbouring bay , and put some Chinese there to work . 
the party set out to seize the chief before he should awake . 
Timau was sleeping off his debauch . 
The assailants were fully exposed , the interior of the hut quite dark the position far from sound . 
The gendarmes knelt with their pieces ready , and Captain Hart advanced alone . 
'Timau , come with me ! he cried . 
The death of Timau has thus somewhat weighed upon his mind the more so , as the chieftain's musket was found in the house unloaded . 
To a less delicate conscience the matter will seem light . 
If a drunken savage elects to cock a fire arm , a gentleman advancing towards him in the open cannot wait to make sure if it be charged . 
I have touched on the captain's popularity . 
It is one of the things that most strikes a stranger in the Marquesas . 
He comes instantly on two names , both new to him , both locally famous , both mentioned by all with affection and respect the bishop's and the captain's . 
It gave me a strong desire to meet with the survivor , which was subsequently gratified to the enrichment of these pages . 
Long after that again , in the Place Dolorous Molokai I came once more on the traces of that affectionate popularity . 
There was a blind white leper there , an old sailor 'an old tough , he called himself who had long sailed among the eastern islands . 
Him I used to visit , and , being fresh from the scenes of his activity , gave him the news . 
Perhaps , if Captain Hart's affairs had continued to prosper , his popularity might have been different . 
Success wins glory , but it kills affection , which misfortune fosters . 
And the misfortune which overtook the captain's enterprise was truly singular . 
He was at the top of his career . 
Ile Masse belonged to him , given by the French as an indemnity for the robberies at Taahauku . 
Both these were on the same day swept by a tidal wave , which was not felt in any other bay or island of the group . 
But the recovery of such jetsam could not affect the result . 
It was impossible the captain should withstand this partiality of fortune and with his fall the prosperity of the Marquesas ended . 
Anaho is truly extinct , Taahauku but a shadow of itself nor has any new plantation arisen in their stead . 
CHAPTER XIII CHARACTERS THERE was a certain traffic in our anchorage at Atuona different indeed from the dead inertia and quiescence of the sister island , Nuka hiva . 
The goods the purchasers came to buy were sometimes quaint . 
I remarked one outrigger returning with a single ham swung from a pole in the stern . 
These were five ship biscuits , a bottle of scent , and two balls of washing blue . 
He was from Tauata , whither he returned the same night in an outrigger , daring the deep with these young ladyish treasures . 
The gross of the native passengers were more ill favoured tall , powerful fellows , well tattooed , and with disquieting manners . 
Something coarse and jeering distinguished them , and I was often reminded of the slums of some great city . 
One night , as dusk was falling , a whale boat put in on that part of the beach where I chanced to be alone . 
I had not yet encountered Mr. Stewart , or I should have been reminded of his first landing at Atuona and the humorist who nibbled at the heel . 
But their neighbourhood depressed me and I felt , if I had been there a castaway and out of reach of help , my heart would have been sick . 
Nor was the traffic altogether native . 
While we lay in the anchorage there befell a strange coincidence . 
A schooner was observed at sea and aiming to enter . 
Captain Chase dwelt farther east in a bay called Hanamate , with a Mr. M'Callum or rather they had dwelt together once , and were now amicably separated . 
The captain is to be found near one end of the bay , in a wreck of a house , and waited on by a Chinese . 
At the point of the opposing corner another habitation stands on a tall paepae . 
Here it is that Mr. M'Callum , with a Shakespeare and a Burns , enjoys the society of the breakers . 
Mr. M'Callum was another instance of the same . 
Mr. M'Callum and I did not meet , but , like gallant troubadours , corresponded in verse . 
I hope he will not consider it a breach of copyright if I give here a specimen of his muse . 
He and Bishop Dordillon are the two European bards of the Marquesas . 
Please not offended be At this little notice Of the CASCO , Captain Otis , With the novelist's family . 
AVOIR UNE VOYAGE MAGNIFICAL Is our wish sincere , That you'll have from here ALLANT SUR LA GRANDE PACIFICAL . 
His first appearance was typical of the man . 
was not merely the adornment of his age , but a substantial piece of property . 
He had something of an East Indian cast , but taller and stronger his nose hooked , his face narrow , his forehead very high , the whole elaborately tattooed . 
I may say I have never entertained a guest so trying . 
Early the first forenoon he called aloud for biscuit and salmon biscuit and ham were brought he looked on them inscrutably , and signed they should be set aside . 
At last I had understood , and every day the programme was the same . 
This solemnity was the cause of an absurd misadventure . 
He was seated plaiting , as usual , at the beards , his dinner arrayed on the roof , and not far off a glass of water standing . 
I must do Mapiao justice all laughed , but his laughter rang the loudest . 
These troubles of service were at worst occasional the embarrassment of the man's talk incessant . 
He was plainly a practised conversationalist the nicety of his inflections , the elegance of his gestures , and the fine play of his expression , told us that . 
We , meanwhile , sat like aliens in a playhouse we could see the actors were upon some material business and performing well , but the plot of the drama remained undiscoverable . 
Yet for me , as the practitioner of some kindred mystery to his own , he manifested to the last a measure of respect . 
A silly trade , he doubtless considered it but a man must make allowance for barbarians CHAQUE PAYS A SES COUTUMES and he felt the principle was there . 
'MITAI EHIPE ? I asked . 
Which testimonial uttered , he set off along the beach with his head bowed and the air of one deeply injured . 
I saw him go , on my side , with relief . 
It would be more interesting to learn how our relation seemed to Mapiao . 
His exigence , we may suppose , was merely loyal . 
He had been hired by the ignorant to do a piece of work and he was bound that he would do it the right way . 
Countless obstacles , continual ignorant ridicule , availed not to dissuade him . 
His view of our stupidity , even he , the mighty talker , must have lacked language to express . 
Its infamous repute perhaps affected me but I thought it the loveliest , and by far the most ominous and gloomy , spot on earth . 
Beautiful it surely was and even more salubrious . 
The healthfulness of the whole group is amazing that of Atuona almost in the nature of a miracle . 
This is the chief station of the French on the man eating isle of Hiva oa . 
The sergeant of gendarmerie enjoys the style of the vice resident , and hoists the French colours over a quite extensive compound . 
A Chinaman , a waif from the plantation , keeps a restaurant in the rear quarters of the village and the mission is well represented by the sister's school and Brother Michel's church . 
Father Orens , a wonderful octogenarian , his frame scarce bowed , the fire of his eye undimmed , has lived , and trembled , and suffered in this place since . 
Again and again , when Moipu had made coco brandy , he has been driven from his house into the woods . 
'A mouse that dwelt in a cat's ear' had a more easy resting place and yet I have never seen a man that bore less mark of years . 
In the sacristy we must see his sacred vessels , and , in particular , a vestment which was a 'VRAIE CURIOSITE , because it had been given by a gendarme . 
The vale behind the village , narrowing swiftly to a mere ravine , was choked with profitable trees . 
A river gushed in the midst . 
With all this fine plenty of men and fruit , death is at work here also . 
It was here , too , that I could at last gratify my curiosity with the sight of a native house in the very article of dissolution . 
A little ahead of us , a young gentleman , very well tattooed , and dressed in a pair of white trousers and a flannel shirt , had been marching unconcernedly . 
Of a sudden , without apparent cause , he turned back , took us in possession , and led us undissuadably along a by path to the river's edge . 
Only one section was yet carved , although the whole was pencil marked in lengths and when I proposed to buy it , Poni recoiled in horror . 
As he came behind us down the vale he sounded upon this continually . 
And continually , from the wayside houses , there poured forth little groups of girls in crimson , or of men in white . 
Whereupon he would tear himself away from this particular group of inquirers , and once more we would hear the shrill call in our wake . 
I made a more extended circuit in the vale with Brother Michel . 
The ground fell away on either hand with an extreme declivity . 
From either hand , out of profound ravines , mounted the song of falling water and the smoke of household fires . 
Here and there the hills of foliage would divide , and our eye would plunge down upon one of these deep nested habitations . 
I never knew a hill to lose so little on a near approach a consequence , I must suppose , of its surprising steepness . 
When we turned about , I was amazed to behold so deep a view behind , and so high a shoulder of blue sea , crowned by the whale like island of Motane . 
And yet the wall of mountain had not visibly dwindled , and I could even have fancied , as I raised my eyes to measure it , that it loomed higher than before . 
We struck now into covert paths , crossed and heard more near at hand the bickering of the streams , and tasted the coolness of those recesses where the houses stood . 
The birds sang about us as we descended . 
It seemed a numerous family we saw eight at least and one of these honoured me with a particular attention . 
This was the mother , a woman naked to the waist , of an aged countenance , but with hair still copious and black , and breasts still erect and youthful . 
On our arrival I could see she remarked me , but instead of offering any greeting , disappeared at once into the bush . 
Thence she returned with two crimson flowers . 
'Good bye ! was her salutation , uttered not without coquetry and as she said it she pressed the flowers into my hand 'Good bye ! I speak Inglis . 
But she , the more fortunate , lived on in her green island . 
Not much beyond we came upon a high place in the foot of the ravine . 
Two roads divided it , and met in the midst . 
Save for this intersection the amphitheatre was strangely perfect , and had a certain ruder air of things Roman . 
Depths of foliage and the bulk of the mountain kept it in a grateful shadow . 
On the benches several young folk sat clustered or apart . 
One of these , a girl perhaps fourteen years of age , buxom and comely , caught the eye of Brother Michel . 
Why was she not at school ? she was done with school now . 
What was she doing here ? she lived here now . 
Why so ? no answer but a deepening blush . 
There was no severity in Brother Michel's manner the girl's own confusion told her story . 
'ELLE A HONTE , was the missionary's comment , as we rode away . 
Even in these daughters of cannibals shame was eloquent . 
It is in Hiva oa , owing to the inveterate cannibalism of the natives , that local beliefs have been most rudely trodden underfoot . 
Not only was one road driven across the high place , but two roads intersected in its midst . 
There is no reason to suppose that the last was done of purpose , and perhaps it was impossible entirely to avoid the numerous sacred places of the islands . 
But these things are not done without result . 
so strange a contrast with their unconcern for death . 
where we were going , and suggested by way of amendment . 
'Why do you not rather show him the cemetery ? I saw it it was but newly opened , the third within eight years . 
The sentiment of honour for the dead is therefore not extinct . 
And yet observe the consequence of violently countering men's opinions . 
Of the four prisoners in Atuona gaol , three were of course thieves the fourth was there for sacrilege . 
He had levelled up a piece of the graveyard to give a feast upon , as he informed the court and declared he had no thought of doing wrong . 
And now it is supposed he will respect our European superstitions as by second nature . 
she approached on one board very near the land in the opposite isle of Tauata , where houses were to be seen in a grove of tall coco palms . 
Brother Michel pointed out the spot . 
'I am at home now , said he . 
'I believe I have a large share in these cocoa nuts and in that house madame my mother lives with her two husbands ! 'With two husbands ? somebody inquired . 
'C'EST MA HONTE , replied the brother drily . 
A word in passing on the two husbands . 
I conceive the brother to have expressed himself loosely . 
It seems common enough to find a native lady with two consorts but these are not two husbands . 
The first is still the husband the wife continues to be referred to by his name and the position of the coadjutor , or PIKIO , although quite regular , appears undoubtedly subordinate . 
We had opportunities to observe one household of the sort . 
The PIKIO was recognised appeared openly along with the husband when the lady was thought to be insulted , and the pair made common cause like brothers . 
At home the inequality was more apparent . 
Plainly we have here no second husband plainly we have the tolerated lover . 
Only , in the Marquesas , instead of carrying his lady's fan and mantle , he must turn his hand to do the husband's housework . 
The sight of Brother Michel's family estate led the conversation for some while upon the method and consequence of artificial kinship . 
Our curiosity became extremely whetted the brother offered to have the whole of us adopted , and some two days later we became accordingly the children of Paaaeua , appointed chief of Atuona . 
I was unable to be present at the ceremony , which was primitively simple . 
For the adoption of an infant I believe no formality to be required the child is handed over by the natural parents , and grows up to inherit the estates of the adoptive . 
Presents are doubtless exchanged , as at all junctures of island life , social or international but I never heard of any banquet the child's presence at the daily board perhaps sufficing . 
In the Marquesan practice , the sense would thus be evanescent from the Tahitian , a mere survival , it will have entirely fled . 
An interesting parallel will probably occur to many of my readers . 
What is the nature of the obligation assumed at such a festival ? It will vary with the characters of those engaged , and with the circumstances of the case . 
Thus it would be absurd to take too seriously our adoption at Atuona . 
We , upon our side , ate of his baked meats with no true ANIMUS AFFILIANDI , but moved by the single sentiment of curiosity . 
The affair was formal , and a matter of parade , as when in Europe sovereigns call each other cousin . 
I have mentioned the Austrian . 
One was destroyed the derelict iron frame of the second , after long , aimless cruising , was at length recovered , refitted , and hails to day from San Francisco . 
A boat's crew from one of these disasters reached , after great hardships , the isle of Hiva oa . 
Now , with such a man , falling and taking root among islanders , the processes described may be compared to a gardener's graft . 
It is this implied engagement that so frequently offends the ingrafted white . 
And he finds there are two parties to the bargain . 
Perhaps his Polynesian relative is simple , and conceived the blood bond literally perhaps he is shrewd , and himself entered the covenant with a view to gain . 
Most men thus circumstanced contrive to buy or brutally manage to enforce their independence but many vegetate without hope , strangled by parasites . 
We had no cause to blush with Brother Michel . 
Enough has been said to show why Moipu should be deposed and in Paaaeua the French had found a reputable substitute . 
He went always scrupulously dressed , and looked the picture of propriety , like a dark , handsome , stupid , and probably religious young man hot from a European funeral . 
In character he seemed the ideal of what is known as the good citizen . 
He wore gravity like an ornament . 
None could more nicely represent the desired character as an appointed chief , the outpost of civilisation and reform . 
And yet , were the French to go and native manners to revive , fancy beholds him crowned with old men's beards and crowding with the first to a man eating festival . 
But I must not seem to be unjust to Paaaeua . 
His respectability went deeper than the skin his sense of the becoming sometimes nerved him for unexpected rigours . 
One evening Captain Otis and Mr. Osbourne were on shore in the village . 
All was agog dancing had begun it was plain it was to be a night of festival , and our adventurers were overjoyed at their good fortune . 
A strong fall of rain drove them for shelter to the house of Paaaeua , where they were made welcome , wiled into a chamber , and shut in . 
But all was vain right across the door lay that god fearing householder , Paaaeua , feigning sleep and my friends had to forego their junketing . 
In this incident , so delightfully European , we thought we could detect three strands of sentiment . 
In the first place , Paaaeua had a charge of souls these were young men , and he judged it right to withhold them from the primrose path . 
Secondly , he was a public character , and it was not fitting that his guests should countenance a festival of which he disapproved . 
for jealousy and the feasters were the satellites of his immediate rival , Moipu . 
For the adoption had caused much excitement in the village it made the strangers popular . 
Paaaeua , in his difficult posture of appointed chief , drew strength and dignity from their alliance , and only Moipu and his followers were malcontent . 
For some reason nobody appears to dislike Moipu . 
It was felt that a few years ago the honours would have gone elsewhere . 
And now , by a malign vicissitude of fortune , Moipu must sit in his house quite unobserved and his young men could but look in at the door while their rivals feasted . 
The nonchalance was visibly affected it was plain he came there to arouse attention , and his success was instant . 
He was introduced he was civil , he was obliging , he was always ineffably superior and certain of himself a well graced actor . 
to strut in a circle of admirers , and be thenceforth the centre of photography . 
Paaaeua felt the blow and , with a spirit which we never dreamed he could possess , asserted his priority . 
A graveyard with its humble crosses would be the aptest symbol of the future . 
We are all impressed with the belief that Moipu had planned his campaign from the beginning to the end . 
It is certain that he lost no time in pushing his advantage . 
The feast of brotherhood took place on board the CASCO . 
Paaaeua had arrived with his family , like a plain man and his presents , which had been numerous , had followed one another , at intervals through several days . 
This is no very human attitude , nor one at all becoming in a traveller . 
And , seen more privately , the man improved . 
Something negroid in character and face was still displeasing but his ugly mouth became attractive when he smiled , his figure and bearing were certainly noble , and his eyes superb . 
And yet I am not sure and what seemed childishness may have been rather courtly art . 
I will complete this sketch of an incurable cannibal grandee with two incongruous traits . 
His favourite morsel was the human hand , of which he speaks to day with an ill favoured lustfulness . 
As we crawled from under the immediate shelter of the land , we reached at last the limit of their influence . 
This was the more inspiriting as we were bound for scenes so different , and though on a brief voyage , yet for a new province of creation . 
Much of it lies vacant , much is closely sown with isles , and the isles are of two sorts . 
No distinction is so continually dwelt upon in South Sea talk as that between the 'low' and the 'high' island , and there is none more broadly marked in nature . 
The Himalayas are not more different from the Sahara . 
The reputation of the place is consequently infamous insurance offices exclude it from their field , and it was not without misgiving that my captain risked the CASCO in such waters . 
The mate stood on the bowsprit , his tall grey figure slashing up and down against the stars , and still 'nihil astra praeter Vidit et undas . 
The rest of us were grouped at the port anchor davit , staring with no less assiduity , but with far less hope on the obscure horizon . 
At length the mate himself despaired , scrambled on board again from his unrestful perch , and announced that we had missed our destination . 
He was the only man of practice in these waters , our sole pilot , shipped for that end at Tai o hae . 
If he declared we had missed Takaroa , it was not for us to quarrel with the fact , but , if we could , to explain it . 
We had certainly run down our southing . 
Our canted wake upon the sea and our somewhat drunken looking course upon the chart both testified with no less certainty to an impetuous westward current . 
I slept that night , as was then my somewhat dangerous practice , on deck upon the cockpit bench . 
'There it is , sir ! he cried , and pointed in the very eyeball of the dawn . 
For awhile I could see nothing but the bluish ruins of the morning bank , which lay far along the horizon , like melting icebergs . 
So far , so good . 
Here was certainly an atoll and we were certainly got among the archipelago . 
At that rate , instead of drifting to the west , we must have fetched up thirty miles to windward . 
Such were at least the facts Tikei our island turned out to be and it was our first experience of the dangerous archipelago , to make our landfall thirty miles out . 
Later the same day we saw under more fit conditions the island of Taiaro . 
LOST IN THE SEA is possibly the meaning of the name . 
The surf ran all around it , white as snow , and broke at one point , far to seaward , on what seems an uncharted reef . 
There was no smoke , no sign of man indeed , the isle is not inhabited , only visited at intervals . 
was watching from the shore and wondering at the unexpected ship . 
I have spent since then long months upon low islands I know the tedium of their undistinguished days I know the burden of their diet . 
The night fell lovely in the extreme . 
After the moon went down , the heaven was a thing to wonder at for stars . 
And as I lay in the cockpit and looked upon the steersman I was haunted by Emerson's verses 'And the lone seaman all the night Sails astonished among stars . 
By this glittering and imperfect brightness , about four bells in the first watch we made our third atoll , Raraka . 
The low line of the isle lay straight along the sky so that I was at first reminded of a towpath , and we seemed to be mounting some engineered and navigable stream . 
Here and there , but rarely , faint tree tops broke the level . 
And the sound of the surf accompanied us , now in a drowsy monotone , now with a menacing swing . 
The isle lay nearly east and west , barring our advance on Fakarava . 
We had the wind free , a lightish air but clouds of an inky blackness were beginning to arise , and at times it lightened without thunder . 
Something , I know not what , continually set us up upon the island . 
We lay more and more to the nor'ard and you would have thought the shore copied our manoeuvre and outsailed us . 
Once and twice Raraka headed us again again , in the sea fashion , the quite innocent steersman was abused and again the CASCO kept away . 
I played the part of the judicious landsman , holding my peace till the last moment and presently my mariners perceived it for themselves . 
'Land ahead ! said the steersman . 
'By God , it's Kauehi ! cried the mate . 
And with that I began to be sorry for cartographers . 
we had dropped an island , passed eight miles of open water , and run almost high and dry upon the next . 
He had enough of night in the Paumotus . 
By daylight on the th we began to skirt Kauehi , and had now an opportunity to see near at hand the geography of atolls . 
Conceive one that has been partly plucked of its rush fringe you have the atoll of Kauehi . 
Last night's impression in the dark was thus confirmed by day , and not corrected . 
We sailed indeed by a mere causeway in the sea , of nature's handiwork , yet of no greater magnitude than many of the works of man . 
For long there was no sign of life beyond the vegetable , and no sound but the continuous grumble of the surf . 
In silence and desertion these fair shores slipped past , and were submerged and rose again with clumps of thicket from the sea . 
And then a bird or two appeared , hovering and crying swiftly these became more numerous , and presently , looking ahead , we were aware of a vast effervescence of winged life . 
In this place the annular isle was mostly under water , carrying here and there on its submerged line a wooded islet . 
As you descend some inland valley a not dissimilar sound announces the nearness of a mill and pouring river . 
Some stragglers , as I said , came to meet our approach a few still hung about the ship as we departed . 
The crying died away , the last pair of wings was left behind , and once more the low shores of Kauehi streamed past our eyes in silence like a picture . 
I supposed at the time that the birds lived , like ants or citizens , concentred where we saw them . 
So that here at Kauehi , as the day before at Taiaro , the CASCO sailed by under the fire of unsuspected eyes . 
And one thing is surely true , that even on these ribbons of land an army might lie hid and no passing mariner divine its presence . 
That part by which we sailed was all raised the underwood excellently green , the topping wood of coco palms continuous a mark , if I had known it , of man's intervention . 
For once more , and once more unconsciously , we were within hail of fellow creatures , and that vacant beach was but a pistol shot from the capital city of the archipelago . 
By and by we might perceive a breach in the low barrier the woods ceased a glittering point ran into the sea , tipped with an emerald shoal the mark of entrance . 
The CASCO scarce avowed a shock but there are times and circumstances when these harbour mouths of inland basins vomit floods , deflecting , burying , and dismasting ships . 
We were scarce well headed for the pass before all heads were craned over the rail . 
I have paid in my time to view many curiosities never one so curious as that first sight over the ship's rail in the lagoon of Fakarava . 
But let not the reader be deceived with hope . 
I have since entered , I suppose , some dozen atolls in different parts of the Pacific , and the experience has never been repeated . 
That exquisite hue and transparency of submarine day , and these shoals of rainbow fish , have not enraptured me again . 
Before we could raise our eyes from that engaging spectacle the schooner had slipped betwixt the pierheads of the reef , and was already quite committed to the sea within . 
The containing shores are so little erected , and the lagoon itself is so great , that , for the more part , it seemed to extend without a check to the horizon . 
Fakarava was chosen to be the seat of Government from nautical considerations only . 
It is eccentrically situate the productions , even for a low island , poor the population neither many nor for Low Islanders industrious . 
Not a soul was to be seen . 
But for the thunder of the surf on the far side , it seemed you might have heard a pin drop anywhere about that capital city . 
There was something thrilling in the unexpected silence , something yet more so in the unexpected sound . 
Here before us a sea reached to the horizon , rippling like an inland mere and behold ! close at our back another sea assaulted with assiduous fury the reverse of the position . 
At night the lantern was run up and lit a vacant pier . 
Crickets sang some shrill thing whistled in a tuft of weeds and the mosquito hummed and stung . 
There was no other trace that night of man , bird , or insect in the isle . 
The moon , now three days old , and as yet but a silver crescent on a still visible sphere , shone through the palm canopy with vigorous and scattered lights . 
The alleys where we walked were smoothed and weeded like a boulevard here and there were plants set out here and there dusky cottages clustered in the shadow , some with verandahs . 
A public garden by night , a rich and fashionable watering place in a by season , offer sights and vistas not dissimilar . 
And still , on the one side , stretched the lapping mere , and from the other the deep sea still growled in the night . 
But it was most of all on board , in the dead hours , when I had been better sleeping , that the spell of Fakarava seized and held me . 
The harbour lantern and two of the greater planets drew vari coloured wakes on the lagoon . 
From shore the cheerful watch cry of cocks rang out at intervals above the organ point of surf . 
So long as I stayed upon that isle these thoughts were constant . 
I lay down to sleep , and woke again with an unblunted sense of my surroundings . 
The sense of insecurity in such a thread of residence is more than fanciful . 
Hurricanes and tidal waves over leap these humble obstacles Oceanus remembers his strength , and , where houses stood and palms flourished , shakes his white beard again over the barren coral . 
Fakarava itself has suffered the trees immediately beyond my house were all of recent replantation and Anaa is only now recovered from a heavier stroke . 
I knew one who was then dwelling in the isle . 
He told me that he and two ship captains walked to the sea beach . 
Danger is but a small consideration . 
But men are more nicely sensible of a discomfort and the atoll is a discomfortable home . 
There are some , and these probably ancient , where a deep soil has formed and the most valuable fruit trees prosper . 
I have walked in one , with equal admiration and surprise , through a forest of huge breadfruits , eating bananas and stumbling among taro as I went . 
This was in the atoll of Namorik in the Marshall group , and stands alone in my experience . 
To give the opposite extreme , which is yet far more near the average , I will describe the soil and productions of Fakarava . 
Here and there you come upon a bank of sand , exceeding fine and white , and these parts are the least productive . 
spring from and love the broken coral , whence they grow with that wonderful verdancy that makes the beauty of the atoll from the sea . 
The pandanus comes next in importance , being also a food tree and he , too , does bravely . 
A green bush called MIKI runs everywhere occasionally a purao is seen and there are several useless weeds . 
According to M. Cuzent , the whole number of plants on an atoll such as Fakarava will scarce exceed , even if it reaches to , one score . 
The land crab may be seen scuttling to his hole , and at night the rats besiege the houses and the artificial gardens . 
The crab is good eating possibly so is the rat I have not tried . 
The rest of the food supply , in a destitute atoll such as Fakarava , can be summed up in the favourite jest of the archipelago cocoa nut beefsteak . 
And some of the entrees are no doubt delicious . 
But when all is done there is a sameness , and the Israelites of the low islands murmur at their manna . 
The reader may think I have forgot the sea . 
The two beaches do certainly abound in life , and they are strangely different . 
In the lagoon the water shallows slowly on a bottom of the fine slimy sand , dotted with clumps of growing coral . 
Then comes a strip of tidal beach on which the ripples lap . 
grows plentifully a little deeper lie the beds of the pearl oyster and sail the resplendent fish that charmed us at our entrance and these are all more or less vigorously coloured . 
But the other shells are white like lime , or faintly tinted with a little pink , the palest possible display many of them dead besides , and badly rolled . 
The reef itself has no passage of colour but is imitated by some shell . 
I have taken shells for stones and stones for shells , the one as often as the other . 
A shell I had found in plenty in the Marquesas I found here also unchanged in all things else , but there were the red spots . 
A lively little crab wore the same markings . 
The case of the hermit or soldier crab was more conclusive , being the result of conscious choice . 
Some two hundred yards distant is the beach of the lagoon . 
Without doubt many of the shells in the lagoon are dead . 
But why are they dead ? Without doubt the living shells have a very different background set for imitation . 
But why are these so different ? We are only on the threshold of the mysteries . 
Either beach , I have said , abounds with life . 
On the sea side and in certain atolls this profusion of vitality is even shocking the rock under foot is mined with it . 
prosper exceedingly and make the riches of these islands . 
Alas ! it is not so . 
Of these painted fish that came in hordes about the entering CASCO , some bore poisonous spines , and others were poisonous if eaten . 
The stranger must refrain , or take his chance of painful and dangerous sickness . 
The native , on his own isle , is a safe guide transplant him to the next , and he is helpless as yourself . 
For it is a question both of time and place . 
According to the natives , these bewildering vicissitudes are ruled by the movement of the heavenly bodies . 
The beautiful planet Venus plays a great part in all island tales and customs and among other functions , some of them more awful , she regulates the season of good fish . 
White men explain these changes by the phases of the coral . 
Upon the back of that , the Governor in Papeete issued a decree All land in the Paumotus must be defined and registered by a certain date . 
Fancy overhears the shrillness of their disputation mingle with the surf and scatter sea fowl . 
Fifty odd set out , and only seven , I was informed , remained . 
But when I made a feast on board the CASCO , more than seven , and nearer seven times seven , appeared to be my guests . 
Whence they appeared , how they were summoned , whither they vanished when the feast was eaten , I have no guess . 
Mr. Donat placed us , with that intent , under the convoy of one Taniera Mahinui , who combined the incongruous characters of catechist and convict . 
The reader may smile , but I affirm he was well qualified for either part . 
For that of convict , first of all , by a good substantial felony , such as in all lands casts the perpetrator in chains and dungeons . 
Taniera was a man of birth the chief a while ago , as he loved to tell , of a district in Anaa of souls . 
In an evil hour it occurred to the authorities in Papeete to charge the chiefs with the collection of the taxes . 
The reader must understand that not Taniera but the authorities in Papeete were first in fault . 
The charge imposed was disproportioned . 
And Taniera , when the pinch came , scorned to denounce accomplices others had shared the spoil , he bore the penalty alone . 
He was condemned in five years . 
And as for his parishioners , they did not think one hair the less of him . 
A schoolboy , mulcted in ten thousand lines of Greek and dwelling sequestered in the dormitories , enjoys unabated consideration from his fellows . 
So with Taniera a marked man , not a dishonoured having fallen under the lash of the unthinkable gods a Job , perhaps , or say a Taniera in the den of lions . 
Songs are likely made and sung about this saintly Robin Hood . 
Methought when he looked upon the cardinal's hat a voice said low in his ear 'Your foot is on the ladder . 
Under the guidance of Taniera we were soon installed in what I believe to have been the best appointed private house in Fakarava . 
It stood just beyond the church in an oblong patch of cultivation . 
Of course there was no blade of grass . 
In front a picket fence divided us from the white road , the palm fringed margin of the lagoon , and the lagoon itself , reflecting clouds by day and stars by night . 
This itself was of one story , verandahed front and back . 
Under the stilts of the house a stove was rusting , till we drew it forth and put it in commission . 
Not far off was the burrow in the coral whence we supplied ourselves with brackish water . 
I was once present it was the Lord's day , and seven females and eight males composed the congregation . 
A woman played precentor , starting with a longish note the catechist joined in upon the second bar and then the faithful in a body . 
Some had printed hymn books which they followed some of the rest filled up with 'eh eh eh , the Paumotuan tol de rol . 
I understood one word the name of God but the preacher managed his voice with taste , used rare and expressive gestures , and made a strong impression of sincerity . 
It is thus the Catholics have met their low island proselytes half way . 
This belief was not to bear the test of experience and , as my chapter has to relate , no certainty succeeded it . 
He had held before a court appointment being , I believe , the Residency sweeper out . 
Trouble arising with the unpopular Vice Resident , he had thrown his honours down , and fled to the far parts of the atoll to plant cabbages or at least coco palms . 
And here , for a while , the story leaves to tell of his voyaging . 
These he proceeded to try on the sea chests , drawing each in turn from its place against the wall . 
Heads of strangers appeared in the doorway and volunteered suggestions . 
Either they were the wrong keys or the wrong boxes , or the wrong man was trying them . 
These were Francois , his wife , and their child . 
, in the midst of the lagoon , their cutter had capsized in jibbing . 
They got her righted , and though she was still full of water put the child on board . 
The mainsail had been carried away , but the jib still drew her sluggishly along , and Francois and the woman swam astern and worked the rudder with their hands . 
The cold was cruel the fatigue , as time went on , became excessive and in that preserve of sharks , fear hunted them . 
Again and again , Francois , the half breed , would have desisted and gone down but the woman , whole blood of an amphibious race , still supported him with cheerful words . 
It was about five in the evening , after nine hours' swimming , that Francois and his wife reached land at Rotoava . 
The gallant fight was won , and instantly the more childish side of native character appears . 
Yet Francois , the son of a French father , speaks excellent French himself and seems intelligent . 
It was our first idea that the catechist , true to his evangelical vocation , was clothing the naked from his superfluity . 
Then it came out that Francois was but dealing with his own . 
The clothes were his , so was the chest , so was the house . 
Francois was in fact the landlord . 
And there was stranger matter . 
To my enduring amazement he refused , and the reason he gave if that can be called a reason which but darkens counsel was that Taniera was his friend . 
His friend , you observe not his creditor . 
I inquired into that , and was assured that Taniera , an exile in a strange isle , might possibly be in debt himself , but certainly was no man's creditor . 
You could see at a glance she was a notable woman , a housewife , sternly practical , alive with energy , and with fine possibilities of temper . 
Indeed , there was nothing native about her but the skin and the type abounds , and is everywhere respected , nearer home . 
It did us good to see her scour the grounds , examining the plants and chickens watering , feeding , trimming them taking angry , purpose like possession . 
When she neared the house our sympathy abated when she came to the broken chest I wished I were elsewhere . 
We had scarce a word in common but her whole lean body spoke for her with indignant eloquence . 
'My chest ! it cried , with a stress on the possessive . 
She repeated the names at first with incredulity , then with despair . 
Here , then , by all known marks , should be my land lady at last here was every character of the proprietor fully developed . 
Should I not approach her on the still depending question of my rent ? I carried the point to an adviser . 
'That's the old woman , the mother . 
It doesn't belong to her . 
I believe that's the man the house belongs to , and he pointed to one of the coloured photographs on the wall . 
CHAPTER IV TRAITS AND SECTS IN THE PAUMOTUS THE MOST careless reader must have remarked a change of air since the Marquesas . 
that the Marquesan especially resembles the Paumotuan . 
I should take the two races , though so near in neighbourhood , to be extremes of Polynesian diversity . 
Yet a few years ago , and the people of the archipelago were crafty savages . 
Their isles might be called sirens' isles , not merely from the attraction they exerted on the passing mariner , but from the perils that awaited him on shore . 
Even to this day , in certain outlying islands , danger lingers and the civilized Paumotuan dreads to land and hesitates to accost his backward brother . 
But , except in these , to day the peril is a memory . 
When our generation were yet in the cradle and playroom it was still a living fact . 
Between and , Hao , for instance , was a place of the most dangerous approach , where ships were seized and crews kidnapped . 
As late as , the schooner SARAH ANN sailed from Papeete and was seen no more . 
All were supposed to have perished in a squall . 
One man remained alone by the landing place Teina , a chief of Anaa , leader of the armed natives who made the strength of the expedition . 
Now that his comrades were departed this way and that , on their laborious exploration , the silence fell profound and this silence was the ruin of the islanders . 
A sound of stones rattling caught the ear of Teina . 
He looked , thinking to perceive a crab , and saw instead the brown hand of a human being issue from a fissure in the ground . 
A shout recalled the search parties and announced their doom to the buried caitiffs . 
In the cave below , sixteen were found crouching among human bones and singular and horrid curiosities . 
The Paumotuan is eager to be rich . 
He saves , grudges , buries money , fears not work . 
For a dollar each , two natives passed the hours of daylight cleaning our ship's copper . 
But the Paumotuan not only saves , grudges , and works , he steals besides or , to be more precise , he swindles . 
He will never deny a debt , he only flees his creditor . 
He is always keen for an advance so soon as he has fingered it he disappears . 
He knows your ship so soon as it nears one island , he is off to another . 
You may think you know his name he has already changed it . 
Pursuit in that infinity of isles were fruitless . 
The result can be given in a nutshell . 
Even so , the purchase was thought hazardous and only the man who made it and who had special opportunities could have dared to give so much . 
The Paumotuan is sincerely attached to those of his own blood and household . 
A touching affection sometimes unites wife and husband . 
The race seems in a fair way to survive . 
From fifteen islands , whose rolls I had occasion to consult , I found a proportion of births to deaths for . 
Dropping three out of the fifteen , there remained for the other twelve the comfortable ratio of births to deaths . 
Long habits of hardship and activity doubtless explain the contrast with Marquesan figures . 
But the Paumotuan displays , besides , a certain concern for health and the rudiments of a sanitary discipline . 
Like their neighbours of Tahiti , from whom they have perhaps imbibed the error , they regard leprosy with comparative indifference , elephantiasis with disproportionate fear . 
But , unlike indeed to the Tahitian , their alarm puts on the guise of self defence . 
Fe'efe'e , being a creature of marshes and the sequel of malarial fever , is not original in atolls . 
On the single isle of Makatea , where the lagoon is now a marsh , the disease has made a home . 
from much of the comfort of society and it is believed they take a secret vengeance . 
The defections of the sick are considered highly poisonous . 
Early in the morning , it is narrated , aged and malicious persons creep into the sleeping village , and stealthily make water at the doors of the houses of young men . 
Thus they propagate disease thus they breathe on and obliterate comeliness and health , the objects of their envy . 
Whether horrid fact or more abominable legend , it equally depicts that something bitter and energetic which distinguishes Paumotuan man . 
The archipelago is divided between two main religions , Catholic and Mormon . 
They front each other proudly with a false air of permanence yet are but shapes , their membership in a perpetual flux . 
The Mormon attends mass with devotion the Catholic sits attentive at a Mormon sermon , and to morrow each may have transferred allegiance . 
According to one informant , Catholicism was the more fashionable in health , but on the approach of sickness it was judged prudent to secede . 
We all know what Catholics are , whether in the Paumotus or at home . 
But the Paumotuan Mormon seemed a phenomenon apart . 
I advised with Mahinui , whom I found well informed in the history of the American Mormons , and he declared against the least connection . 
'POUR MOI , said he , with a fine charity , 'LES MORMONS ICI UN PETIT CATHOLIQUES . 
Some months later I had an opportunity to consult an orthodox fellow countryman , an old dissenting Highlander , long settled in Tahiti , but still breathing of the heather of Tiree . 
'Why do they call themselves Mormons ? I asked . 
'My dear , and that is my question ! he exclaimed . 
'For by all that I can hear of their doctrine , I have nothing to say against it , and their life , it is above reproach . 
And for all that , Mormons they are , but of the earlier sowing the so called Josephites , the followers of Joseph Smith , the opponents of Brigham Young . 
Grant , then , the Mormons to be Mormons . 
A few years since there came a visiting missionary of the name of Williams , who made an excellent collection , and retired , leaving fresh disruption imminent . 
in his way of 'opening the service' had raised partisans and enemies the church was once more rent asunder and a new sect , the Kanitu , issued from the division . 
Since then Kanitus and Israelites , like the Cameronians and the United Presbyterians , have made common cause and the ecclesiastical history of the Paumotus is , for the moment , uneventful . 
There will be more doing before long , and these isles bid fair to be the Scotland of the South . 
Two things I could never learn . 
The nature of the innovations of the Rev . 
Mr. Williams none would tell me , and of the meaning of the name Kanitu none had a guess . 
It was not Tahitian , it was not Marquesan it formed no part of that ancient speech of the Paumotus , now passing swiftly into obsolescence . 
One man , a priest , God bless him ! said it was the Latin for a little dog . 
I have found it since as the name of a god in New Guinea it must be a bolder man than I who should hint at a connection . 
Here , then , is a singular thing a brand new sect , arising by popular acclamation , and a nonsense word invented for its name . 
The design of mystery seems obvious , and according to a very intelligent observer , Mr. Magee of Mangareva , this element of the mysterious is a chief attraction of the Mormon Church . 
It enjoys some of the status of Freemasonry at home , and there is for the convert some of the exhilaration of adventure . 
Other attractions are certainly conjoined . 
Perpetual rebaptism , leading to a succession of baptismal feasts , is found , both from the social and the spiritual side , a pleasing feature . 
More important is the fact that all the faithful enjoy office perhaps more important still , the strictness of the discipline . 
'The veto on liquor , said Mr. Magee , 'brings them plenty members . 
Mr. Wilmot attributes this to Paumotuan frugality and the love of hoarding it goes far deeper . 
I have mentioned that I made a feast on board the CASCO . 
But there were others thoroughly consistent . 
There is yet another sect , or what is called a sect no doubt improperly that of the Whistlers . 
Duncan Cameron , so clear in favour of the Mormons , was no less loud in condemnation of the Whistlers . 
Yet I do not know I still fancy there is some connection , perhaps fortuitous , probably disavowed . 
in the island of Anaa , of which I am equally sure that Duncan would disclaim and the Whistlers hail them for an imitation of their own . 
My informant , a Tahitian and a Catholic , occupied one part of the house the prophet and his family lived in the other . 
At length she could contain herself no longer , woke her husband , and asked him what he heard . 
'I hear several persons singing hymns , said he . 
The next day he made inquiries . 
'It is a spirit , said the prophet , with entire simplicity , 'which has lately made a practice of joining us at family worship . 
The performances of the Whistlers are more business like . 
Their meetings are held publicly with open doors , all being 'cordially invited to attend . 
One of these , immersion in scalding water , not long ago proved fatal to the patient . 
Yet I was told that many hardy , intelligent natives were inveterate Whistlers . 
'Like Mahinui ? I asked , willing to have a standard and I was told 'Yes . 
Why should I wonder ? Men more enlightened than my convict catechist sit down at home to follies equally sterile and dull . 
The medium is sometimes female . 
But what shocked Tahiti might seem fit enough in the Paumotus , the more so as certain women there possess , by the gift of nature , singular and useful powers . 
They say they are honest , well intentioned ladies , some of them embarrassed by their weird inheritance . 
And indeed the trouble caused by this endowment is so great , and the protection afforded so infinitesimally small , that I hesitate whether to call it a gift or a hereditary curse . 
Here is the report of an eye witness , Tasmanian born , educated , a man who has made money certainly no fool . 
In he was present in a house on Makatea , where two lads began to skylark on the mats , and were ejected . 
Instantly after , their bellies began to swell pains took hold on them all manner of island remedies were exhibited in vain , and rubbing only magnified their sufferings . 
The man of the house was called , explained the nature of the visitation , and prepared the cure . 
A cocoa nut was husked , filled with herbs , and with all the ceremonies of a launch , and the utterance of spells in the Paumotuan language , committed to the sea . 
From that moment the pains began to grow more easy and the swelling to subside . 
I have not met these gifted ladies but I had an experience of my own , for I have played , for one night only , the part of the whistling spirit . 
It had been blowing wearily all day , but with the fall of night the wind abated , and the moon , which was then full , rolled in a clear sky . 
We went southward down the island on the side of the lagoon , walking through long drawn forest aisles of palm , and on a floor of snowy sand . 
To sit without a light , even in company , and under cover , is for a Paumotuan a somewhat hazardous extreme . 
I was barefoot , I observed my steps were noiseless , and drawing near to the dark house , but keeping well in shadow , began to whistle . 
'The Heaving of the Lead' was my air no very tragic piece . 
All night , as I now think , the wretches shivered and were silent . 
CHAPTER V A PAUMOTUAN FUNERAL NO , I had no guess of these men's terrors . 
Yet I had received ere that a hint , if I had understood and the occasion was a funeral . 
Perhaps they were too old to migrate with the others perhaps they were too poor , and had no possessions to dispute . 
At least they had remained behind and it thus befell that they were invited to my feast . 
On the morning of th September the sufferer died , and , time pressing , he was buried the same day at four . 
Far in the rear came the widow , painfully carrying the dead man's mat a creature aged beyond humanity , to the likeness of some missing link . 
The dead man had been a Mormon but the Mormon clergyman was gone with the rest to wrangle over boundaries in the adjacent isle , and a layman took his office . 
The wind and the surf bore a burthen . 
By the cemetery gate a mother in crimson suckled an infant rolled in blue . 
Did she understand ? God knows . 
The officiant paused a moment , stooped , and gathered and threw reverently on the coffin a handful of rattling coral . 
So far , Mormon or not , it was a Christian funeral . 
The well known passage had been read from Job , the prayers had been rehearsed , the grave was filled , the mourners straggled homeward . 
By rights it should have been otherwise . 
The mat should have been buried with its owner but , the family being poor , it was thriftily reserved for a fresh service . 
The widow should have flung herself upon the grave and raised the voice of official grief , the neighbours have chimed in , and the narrow isle rung for a space with lamentation . 
But the widow was old perhaps she had forgotten , perhaps never understood , and she played like a child with leaves and coffin stretchers . 
In all ways my guest was buried with maimed rites . 
Strange to think that his last conscious pleasure was the CASCO and my feast strange to think that he had limped there , an old child , looking for some new good . 
And the good thing , rest , had been allotted him . 
But though the widow had neglected much , there was one part she must not utterly neglect . 
She came away with the dispersing funeral but the dead man's mat was left behind upon the grave , and I learned that by set of sun she must return to sleep there . 
From sundown till the rising of the morning star the Paumotuan must hold his watch above the ashes of his kindred . 
Yet one thing had occurred that partly set me on the trail . 
I have said the funeral passed much as at home . 
'What did she say to you ? I asked . 
'She did not speak to ME , said Donat , a shade perturbed 'she spoke to the ghost of the dead man . 
And the purport of her speech was this 'See there ! Donat will be a fine feast for you to night . 
Donat called it a jest , I wrote at the time in my diary . 
'It seemed to me more in the nature of a terrified conjuration , as though she would divert the ghost's attention from herself . 
A cannibal race may well have cannibal phantoms . 
The guesses of the traveller appear foredoomed to be erroneous yet in these I was precisely right . 
The woman had stood by in terror at the funeral , being then in a dread spot , the graveyard . 
She looked on in terror to the coming night , with that ogre , a new spirit , loosed upon the isle . 
And the words she had cried in Donat's face were indeed a terrified conjuration , basely to shield herself , basely to dedicate another in her stead . 
One thing is to be said in her excuse . 
Doubtless she partly chose Donat because he was a man of great good nature , but partly , too , because he was a man of the half caste . 
For I believe all natives regard white blood as a kind of talisman against the powers of hell . 
In no other way can they explain the unpunished recklessness of Europeans . 
With thoughts so different , one must indulge the other and I would rather that I should indulge his superstition than he my incredulity . 
I will give but a few instances at random , chiefly from my own doorstep in Upolu , during the past month . 
So much I learned a day or so after , walking in the bush with a very intelligent youth , a native . 
It was a little before noon a grey day and squally and perhaps I had spoken lightly . 
He was afraid , he said , of the trees falling but as soon as I had changed the subject of our talk he proceeded with alacrity . 
There has been a great coming and going of signs and omens in our group . 
One river ran down blood red eels were captured in another an unknown fish was thrown upon the coast , an ominous word found written on its scales . 
So far we might be reading in a monkish chronicle now we come on a fresh note , at once modern and Polynesian . 
The gods of Upolu and Savaii , our two chief islands , contended recently at cricket . 
Since then they are at war . 
Sounds of battle are heard to roll along the coast . 
They were gods from the field of battle . 
But it was the spiritual side of their significance that was discussed in secret council by my rulers . 
I shall best depict this mingled habit of the Polynesian mind by two connected instances . 
I once lived in a village , the name of which I do not mean to tell . 
The chief and his sister were persons perfectly intelligent gentlefolk , apt of speech . 
The sister was very religious , a great church goer , one that used to reprove me if I stayed away I found afterwards that she privately worshipped a shark . 
I had discovered by unmistakable signs that they buried too shallow in the village graveyard , and I took my friend , as the responsible authority , to task . 
'There is something wrong about your graveyard , said I , 'which you must attend to , or it may have very bad results . 
'Something wrong ? What is it ? he asked , with an emotion that surprised me . 
'If you care to go along there any evening about nine o'clock you can see for yourself , said I. He stepped backward . 
'A ghost ! he cried . 
In short , in the whole field of the South Seas , there is not one to blame another . 
I try to deal with the whole matter here because of a particular quality in Paumotuan superstitions . 
It is true I heard them told by a man with a genius for such narrations . 
Close about our evening lamp , within sound of the island surf , we hung on his words , thrilling . 
The reader , in far other scenes , must listen close for the faint echo . 
This bundle of weird stories sprang from the burial and the woman's selfish conjuration . 
I was dissatisfied with what I heard , harped upon questions , and struck at last this vein of metal . 
It is from sundown to about four in the morning that the kinsfolk camp upon the grave and these are the hours of the spirits' wanderings . 
'Did you ever see an evil spirit ? was once asked of a Paumotuan . 
'Under what form ? 'It was in the form of a crane . 
'And how did you know that crane to be a spirit ? was asked . 
'I will tell you , he answered and this was the purport of his inconclusive narrative . 
His father had been dead nearly a fortnight others had wearied of the watch and as the sun was setting , he found himself by the grave alone . 
This was an anodyne appearance . 
Take instead the experience of Rua a mariterangi on the isle of Katiu . 
He had a need for some pandanus , and crossed the isle to the sea beach , where it chiefly flourishes . 
The day was still , and Rua was surprised to hear a crashing sound among the thickets , and then the fall of a considerable tree . 
Here must be some one building a canoe and he entered the margin of the wood to find and pass the time of day with this chance neighbour . 
The crashing sounded more at hand and then he was aware of something drawing swiftly near among the tree tops . 
Prayer was the weapon of Christian in the Valley of the Shadow , and it is to prayer that Rua a mariterangi attributes his escape . 
No merely human expedition had availed . 
This demon was plainly from the grave yet you will observe he was abroad by day . 
And inconsistent as it may seem with the hours of the night watch and the many references to the rising of the morning star , it is no singular exception . 
Mr. Donat was once pearling on the uninhabited isle of Haraiki . 
It was a day without a breath of wind , such as alternate in the archipelago with days of contumelious breezes . 
The divers were in the midst of the lagoon upon their employment the cook , a boy of ten , was over his pots in the camp . 
Thus were all souls accounted for except a single native who accompanied Donat into the wood in quest of sea fowls' eggs . 
In a moment , out of the stillness , came the sound of the fall of a great tree . 
Donat would have passed on to find the cause . 
'No , cried his companion , 'that was no tree . 
It was something NOT RIGHT . 
Let us go back to camp . 
Next Sunday the divers were turned on , all that part of the isle was thoroughly examined , and sure enough no tree had fallen . 
A little later Mr. Donat saw one of his divers flee from a similar sound , in similar unaffected panic , on the same isle . 
But neither would explain , and it was not till afterwards , when he met with Rua , that he learned the occasion of their terrors . 
But whether by day or night , the purpose of the dead in these abhorred activities is still the same . 
In Samoa , my informant had no idea of the food of the bush spirits no such ambiguity would exist in the mind of a Paumotuan . 
In that hungry archipelago , living and dead must alike toil for nutriment and the race having been cannibal in the past , the spirits are so still . 
When the living ate the dead , horrified nocturnal imagination drew the shocking inference that the dead might eat the living . 
Doubtless they slay men , doubtless even mutilate them , in mere malice . 
Marquesan spirits sometimes tear out the eyes of travellers but even that may be more practical than appears , for the eye is a cannibal dainty . 
And certainly the root idea of the dead , at least in the far eastern islands , is to prowl for food . 
It was as a dainty morsel for a meal that the woman denounced Donat at the funeral . 
There are spirits besides who prey in particular not on the bodies but on the souls of the dead . 
The point is clearly made in a Tahitian story . 
A child fell sick , grew swiftly worse , and at last showed signs of death . 
The mother hastened to the house of a sorcerer , who lived hard by . 
Wrapped in a leaf like other things edible and corruptible . 
Or take an experience of Mr. Donat's on the island of Anaa . 
All at once a fowl was violently dashed on the house wall . 
lying on the verandah , and put it in the hen house , the door of which he securely fastened . 
Fifteen minutes later the business was repeated , only this time , as it was being dashed against the wall , the bird crew . 
The sceptical reader may here detect the finger of the tempest but the women gave up all for lost and clustered on the beds lamenting . 
Nothing followed , and I must suppose the gale somewhat abated , for presently after a chief came visiting . 
He was a bold man to be abroad so late , but doubtless carried a bright lantern . 
And he was certainly a man of counsel , for as soon as he heard the details of these disturbances he was in a position to explain their nature . 
'Your child , said he , 'must certainly die . 
This is the evil spirit of our island who lies in wait to eat the spirits of the newly dead . 
And then he went on to expatiate on the strangeness of the spirit's conduct . 
But when the day came and the doors were opened , and men began to go abroad , blood stains on the wall betrayed the tragedy . 
This is the quality I admire in Paumotuan legend . 
In Tahiti the spirit eater is said to assume a vesture which has much more of pomp , but how much less of horror . 
It has been seen by all sorts and conditions , native and foreign only the last insist it is a meteor . 
My authority was not so sure . 
He was riding with his wife about two in the morning both were near asleep , and the horses not much better . 
A buzzing hoot accompanied its passage it flew direct out of one marae , and direct for another down the mountain side . 
And this , as my informant argued , is suggestive . 
For why should a mere meteor frequent the altars of abominable gods ? The horses , I should say , were equally dismayed with their riders . 
Now I am not dismayed at all not even agreeably . 
Give me rather the bird upon the house top and the morning blood gouts on the wall . 
But the dead are not exclusive in their diet . 
They carry with them to the grave , in particular , the Polynesian taste for fish , and enter at times with the living into a partnership in fishery . 
As Rua grew up he was called at last to go a fishing with this fortunate parent . 
They rowed the lagoon at dusk , to an unlikely place , and the lay down in the stern , and the father began vainly to cast his line over the bows . 
It is to be supposed that Rua slept and when he awoke there was the figure of another beside his father , and his father was pulling in the fish hand over hand . 
'Who is that man , father ? Rua asked . 
'It is none of your business , said the father and Rua supposed the stranger had swum off to them from shore . 
'My father is a very lucky man , thought Rua . 
Then Rua understood why his father prospered , why his fishes rotted early in the day , and why some were always carried to the cemetery and laid upon the graves . 
My informant is a man not certainly averse to superstition , but he keeps his head , and takes a certain superior interest , which I may be allowed to call scientific . 
The last point reminding him of some parallel practice in Tahiti , he asked Rua if the fish were left , or carried home again after a formal dedication . 
It appears old Mariterangi practised both methods sometimes treating his shadowy partner to a mere oblation , sometimes honestly leaving his fish to rot upon the grave . 
It is plain we have in Europe stories of a similar complexion and the Polynesian VARUA INO or AITU O LE VAO is clearly the near kinsman of the Transylvanian vampire . 
Here is a tale in which the kinship appears broadly marked . 
On the atoll of Penrhyn , then still partly savage , a certain chief was long the salutary terror of the natives . 
He died , he was buried and his late neighbours had scarce tasted the delights of licence ere his ghost appeared about the village . 
The still recent staking of suicides in England and the decapitation of vampires in the east of Europe form close parallels . 
So in Samoa only the spirits of the unburied awake fear . 
was insufficient , and the spirit still lingered on the theatre of death . 
When peace returned a singular scene was enacted in many places , and chiefly round the high gorges of Lotoanuu , where the struggle was long centred and the loss had been severe . 
Kinswomen of the dead came carrying a mat or sheet and guided by survivors of the fight . 
The place of death was earnestly sought out the sheet was spread upon the ground and the women , moved with pious anxiety , sat about and watched it . 
The rite was practised beyond doubt in simple piety the repose of the soul was its object its motive , reverent affection . 
And this severely classic opinion doubtless represents the views of the enlightened . 
But the flight of my Lafaele marks the grosser terrors of the ignorant . 
This belief in the exorcising efficacy of funeral rites perhaps explains a fact , otherwise amazing , that no Polynesian seems at all to share our European horror of human bones and mummies . 
Of the first they made their cherished ornaments they preserved them in houses or in mortuary caves and the watchers of royal sepulchres dwelt with their children among the bones of generations . 
The mummy , even in the making , was as little feared . 
Head hunting , besides , still lives around my doorstep in Samoa . 
In all these cases we may suppose the process , whether of cleansing or drying , to have fully exorcised the aitu . 
But the Paumotuan belief is more obscure . 
Here the man is duly buried , and he has to be watched . 
He is duly watched , and the spirit goes abroad in spite of watches . 
Indeed , it is not the purpose of the vigils to prevent these wanderings only to mollify by polite attention the inveterate malignity of the dead . 
may irritate and thus invite his visits , and the aged and weakly sometimes balance risks and stay at home . 
Observe , it is the dead man's kindred and next friends who thus deprecate his fury with nocturnal watchings . 
Even the placatory vigil is held perilous , except in company , and a boy was pointed out to me in Rotoava , because he had watched alone by his own father . 
Not the ties of the dead , nor yet their proved character , affect the issue . 
We may sum up the cheerful doctrine thus All men become vampires , and the vampire spares none . 
And here we come face to face with a tempting inconsistency . 
For the whistling spirits are notoriously clannish I understood them to wait upon and to enlighten kinsfolk only , and that the medium was always of the race of the communicating spirit . 
Here , then , we have the bonds of the family , on the one hand , severed at the hour of death on the other , helpfully persisting . 
The child's soul in the Tahitian tale was wrapped in leaves . 
It is the spirits of the newly dead that are the dainty . 
When they are slain , the house is stained with blood . 
Rua's dead fisherman was decomposed so and horribly was his arboreal demon . 
The spirit , then , is a thing material and it is by the material ensigns of corruption that he is distinguished from the living man . 
This opinion is widespread , adds a gross terror to the more ugly Polynesian tales , and sometimes defaces the more engaging with a painful and incongruous touch . 
I will give two examples sufficiently wide apart , one from Tahiti , one from Samoa . 
A man went to visit the husband of his sister , then some time dead . 
In her life the sister had been dainty in the island fashion , and went always adorned with a coronet of flowers . 
In the midst of the night the brother awoke and was aware of a heavenly fragrance going to and fro in the dark house . 
The lamp I must suppose to have burned out no Tahitian would have lain down without one lighted . 
A while he lay wondering and delighted then called upon the rest . 
'Do none of you smell flowers ? he asked . 
'O , said his brother in law , 'we are used to that here . 
The next morning these two men went walking , and the widower confessed that his dead wife came about the house continually , and that he had even seen her . 
Now for the Samoan story . 
I owe it to the kindness of Dr . 
F. Otto Sierich , whose collection of folk tales I expect with a high degree of interest . 
A man in Manu'a was married to two wives and had no issue . 
He went to Savaii , married there a third , and was more fortunate . 
It was in vain his wife dissuaded him . 
He returned to his father in Manu'a seeking help and with what he could get he set off in the night to re embark . 
Now his wives heard of his coming they were incensed that he did not stay to visit them and on the beach , by his canoe , intercepted and slew him . 
Now the third wife lay asleep in Savaii her babe was born and slept by her side and she was awakened by the spirit of her husband . 
'Get up , he said , 'my father is sick in Manu'a and we must go to visit him . 
'It is well , said she 'take you the child , while I carry its mats . 
'I cannot carry the child , said the spirit 'I am too cold from the sea . 
When they were got on board the canoe the wife smelt carrion . 
'How is this ? she said . 
'What have you in the canoe that I should smell carrion ? 'It is nothing in the canoe , said the spirit . 
'It is the land wind blowing down the mountains , where some beast lies dead . 
It appears it was still night when they reached Manu'a the swiftest passage on record and as they entered the reef the bale fires burned in the village . 
Again she asked him to carry the child but now he need no more dissemble . 
'I cannot carry your child , said he , 'for I am dead , and the fires you see are burning for my funeral . 
The curious may learn in Dr . 
Sierich's book the unexpected sequel of the tale . 
Here is enough for my purpose . 
Though the man was but new dead , the ghost was already putrefied , as though putrefaction were the mark and of the essence of a spirit . 
The vigil on the Paumotuan grave does not extend beyond two weeks , and they told me this period was thought to coincide with that of the resolution of the body . 
The ghost always marked with decay the danger seemingly ending with the process of dissolution here is tempting matter for the theorist . 
But it will not do . 
The lady of the flowers had been long dead , and her spirit was still supposed to bear the brand of perishability . 
The Resident had been more than a fortnight buried , and his vampire was still supposed to go the rounds . 
It is a lively point in the tale that , on the sight of this dishonoured tabernacle , the princess prayed she might continue to be numbered with the dead . 
But it seems it was too late , her spirit was replaced by the least dignified of entrances , and her startled family beheld the body move . 
The seemingly purgatorial labours , the helpful kindred spirit , and the horror of the princess at the sight of her tainted body , are all points to be remarked . 
The truth is , the tales are not necessarily consistent in themselves and they are further darkened for the stranger by an ambiguity of language . 
Ghosts , vampires , spirits , and gods are all confounded . 
those whom we would count gods were less maleficent . 
The spirit of Aana that ate souls is certainly a fearsome inmate but the high gods , even of the archipelago , seem helpful . 
The same divinity bore priests from isle to isle about the archipelago , and by his aid , within the century , persons have been seen to fly . 
The tutelar deity of each isle is likewise helpful , and by a particular form of wedge shaped cloud on the horizon announces the coming of a ship . 
To one who conceives of these atolls , so narrow , so barren , so beset with sea , here would seem a superfluity of ghostly denizens . 
And yet there are more . 
on the first sound of feet upon the coral they dive again for ever . 
They are known to be healthy and harmless living people , dwellers of an underworld and the same fancy is current in Tahiti , where also they have the hair red . 
TETEA is the Tahitian name the Paumotuan , MOKUREA . 
PART III THE GILBERTS CHAPTER I BUTARITARI AT Honolulu we had said farewell to the CASCO and to Captain Otis , and our next adventure was made in changed conditions . 
The whole extent of the South Seas is a desert of ships more especially that part where we were now to sail . 
No post runs in these islands communication is by accident where you may have designed to go is one thing , where you shall be able to arrive another . 
Since the sunset faded from the peaks of Oahu six months had intervened , and we had seen no spot of earth so high as an ordinary cottage . 
The two chief places of our stay , Butaritari and Apemama , lie near the line the latter within thirty miles . 
Both enjoy a superb ocean climate , days of blinding sun and bracing wind , nights of a heavenly brightness . 
a quarter of a mile from beach to beach . 
In both , a coarse kind of TARO thrives its culture is a chief business of the natives , and the consequent mounds and ditches make miniature scenery and amuse the eye . 
Life on such islands is in many points like life on shipboard . 
The atoll , like the ship , is soon taken for granted and the islanders , like the ship's crew , become soon the centre of attention . 
The isles are populous , independent , seats of kinglets , recently civilised , little visited . 
Ten years ago all these things and practices were to be seen in use yet ten years more , and the old society will have entirely vanished . 
We came in a happy moment to see its institutions still erect and scarce decayed . 
Populous and independent warrens of men , ruled over with some rustic pomp such was the first and still the recurring impression of these tiny lands . 
glittered near one end conspicuously bright the royal colours flew hard by on a tall flagstaff in front , on an artificial islet , the gaol played the part of a martello . 
The tide being out , we waded for some quarter of a mile in tepid shallows , and stepped ashore at last into a flagrant stagnancy of sun and heat . 
We may thus be said to have taken Butaritari by surprise . 
A few inhabitants were still abroad in the north end , at which we landed . 
As we advanced , we were soon done with encounter , and seemed to explore a city of the dead . 
The houses were of all dimensions , from those of toys to those of churches . 
Many were open sheds some took the form of roofed stages others were walled and the walls pierced with little windows . 
The proportions of the place , in such surroundings , and built of such materials , appeared august and we threaded the nave with a sentiment befitting visitors in a cathedral . 
Benches run along either side . 
is dressed with streamers of the same material , red and white . 
This was our first advertisement of the royal dignity , and presently we stood before its seat and centre . 
The palace is built of imported wood upon a European plan the roof of corrugated iron , the yard enclosed with walls , the gate surmounted by a sort of lych house . 
with coloured advertisements and cuts from the illustrated papers . 
Even before the gate some of the treasures of the crown stand public a bell of a good magnitude , two pieces of cannon , and a single shell . 
Vassal chiefs with tribute , neighbour monarchs come a roving , might here sail in , view with surprise these extensive public works , and be awed by these mouths of silent cannon . 
It was impossible to see the place and not to fancy it designed for pageantry . 
But the elaborate theatre then stood empty the royal house deserted , its doors and windows gaping the whole quarter of the town immersed in silence . 
The canal is formed on the south by a pier or causeway with a parapet . 
At the far end the parapet stops , and the quay expands into an oblong peninsula in the lagoon , the breathing place and summer parlour of the king . 
The iron roof , lofty but exceedingly low browed , so that a woman must stoop to enter , is supported externally on pillars of coral , within by a frame of wood . 
The court ladies were busy making mats the guardsmen yawned and sprawled . 
Half a dozen rifles lay on a rock and a cutlass was leaned against a pillar the armoury of these drowsy musketeers . 
At the far end , a little closed house of wood displayed some tinsel curtains , and proved , upon examination , to be a privy on the European model . 
In front of this , upon some mats , lolled Tebureimoa , the king behind him , on the panels of the house , two crossed rifles represented fasces . 
The rajah displayed no sign of interest in our coming . 
He had greeted us upon our entrance 'That is the honourable King , and I am his interpreter , he had said , with more stateliness than truth . 
For he held no appointment in the court , seemed extremely ill acquainted with the island language , and was present , like ourselves , upon a visit of civility . 
Mr. Williams was his name an American darkey , runaway ship's cook , and bar keeper at THE LAND WE LIVE IN tavern , Butaritari . 
The town still slumbered , or had but just begun to turn and stretch itself it was still plunged in heat and silence . 
The importance of the office is measured by the man he may be a nobody , he may be absolute and both extremes have been exemplified within the memory of residents . 
On the death of king Tetimararoa , Tebureimoa's father , Nakaeia , the eldest son , succeeded . 
He was a fellow of huge physical strength , masterful , violent , with a certain barbaric thrift and some intelligence of men and business . 
Alone in his islands , it was he who dealt and profited he was the planter and the merchant and his subjects toiled for his behoof in servitude . 
When they wrought long and well their taskmaster declared a holiday , and supplied and shared a general debauch . 
parade their drunken sovereign on the fore hatch of a wrecked vessel , king and commons howling and singing as they went . 
The fear of Nakaeia filled the land . 
The king himself would play the executioner and his blows were dealt by stealth , and with the help and countenance of none but his own wives . 
The inmates of the harem held a station hard for us to conceive . 
They killed by the sight like basilisks a chance view of one of those boatwomen was a crime to be wiped out with blood . 
In the days of Nakaeia the palace was beset with some tall coco palms which commanded the enclosure . 
Instant flight preserved the involuntary criminal . 
Such was the ideal of wifely purity in an isle where nubile virgins went naked as in paradise . 
And yet scandal found its way into Nakaeia's well guarded harem . 
, that he was married to her sister , for the husband of an elder sister has the call of the cadets . 
'Tell me the man's name , and I will spare you , said Nakaeia . 
But the girl was staunch she held her peace , saved her lover and the queens strangled her between the mats . 
Nakaeia was feared it does not appear that he was hated . 
of 'a perfect gentleman when sober . 
The warning was taken to heart , and for some while the government moved on the model of Nakaeia's . 
Nanteitei dispensed with guards , and walked abroad alone with a revolver in a leather mail bag . 
To conceal his weakness he affected a rude silence you might talk to him all day advice , reproof , appeal , and menace alike remained unanswered . 
The number of his wives was seventeen , many of them heiresses for the royal house is poor , and marriage was in these days a chief means of buttressing the throne . 
Nakaeia kept his harem busy for himself Nanteitei hired it out to others . 
In his days , for instance , Messrs . 
Wightman built a pier with a verandah at the north end of the town . 
It was perhaps the last appearance of the harem gang . 
For some time already Hawaiian missionaries had been seated at Butaritari Maka and Kanoa , two brave childlike men . 
Nakaeia would none of their doctrine he was perhaps jealous of their presence being human , he had some affection for their persons . 
with some expressions of respect . 
Nanteitei , the weaker man , fell more completely under the spell . 
Maka , a light hearted , lovable , yet in his own trade very rigorous man , gained and improved an influence on the king which soon grew paramount . 
Nanteitei , with the royal house , was publicly converted and , with a severity which liberal missionaries disavow , the harem was at once reduced . 
It was a compendious act . 
The throne was thus impoverished , its influence shaken , the queen's relatives mortified , and sixteen chief women cast in a body on the market . 
I have been shipmates with a Hawaiian sailor who was successively married to two of these IMPROMPTU widows , and successively divorced by both for misconduct . 
should have married 'a man from another island' marks the dissolution of society . 
The laws besides were wholly remodelled , not always for the better . 
I love Maka as a man as a legislator he has two defects weak in the punishment of crime , stern to repress innocent pleasures . 
The rule of the high chiefs and notables seems to have always underlain and perhaps alternated with monarchy . 
have a right to sit with the king in the Speak House and debate and the king's chief superiority is a form of closure 'The Speaking is over . 
After the long monocracy of Nakaeia and the changes of Nanteitei , the Old Men were doubtless grown impatient of obscurity , and they were beyond question jealous of the influence of Maka . 
In the space of one forenoon the throne of Nakaeia was humbled in the dust . 
They came singly or in groups , each with his gun or pistol slung about his neck . 
'Where are you going ? asked the chief . 
'The king called us , they would reply . 
Sit down , returned the chief . 
With incredible disloyalty , all obeyed and sufficient force being thus got together from both sides , Nabakatokia was summoned and surrendered . 
Nabakatokia was more fortunate his life and the royal style were spared to him , but he was stripped of power . 
He died some months before my arrival on the islands , and no one regretted him rather all looked hopefully to his successor . 
This was by repute the hero of the family . 
CORPSE , was his appalling nickname , and he had earned it well . 
Again and again , at the command of Nakaeia , he had surrounded houses in the dead of night , cut down the mosquito bars and butchered families . 
Here was the hand of iron here was Nakaeia REDUX . 
The change in the man's character was much commented on in the island , and variously explained by opium and Christianity . 
To my eyes , there seemed no change at all , rather an extreme consistency . 
Mr. Corpse was afraid of his brother King Tebureimoa is afraid of the Old Men . 
Terror of the first nerved him for deeds of desperation fear of the second disables him for the least act of government . 
The same cowardice that put into his hand the knife of the assassin deprives him of the sceptre of a king . 
A tale that I was told , a trifling incident that fell in my observation , depicts him in his two capacities . 
would be worse than awkward . 
'I will strike the blow , said the venerable Abou and Mr. Corpse accepted the compromise . 
The quarry was decoyed into the bush he was set to carrying a log and while his arms were raised Abou ripped up his belly at a blow . 
Justice being thus done , the commission , in a childish horror , turned to flee . 
But their victim recalled them to his side . 
'You need not run away now , he said . 
'You have done this thing to me . 
He was some twenty minutes dying , and his murderers sat with him the while a scene for Shakespeare . 
I was never more sure of anything than the tragic quality of the king's thoughts and yet I had but the one sight of him at unawares . 
I had once an errand for his ear . 
It was once more the hour of the siesta but there were loiterers abroad , and these directed us to a closed house on the bank of the canal where Tebureimoa lay unguarded . 
We entered without ceremony , being in some haste . 
He lay on the floor upon a bed of mats , reading in his Gilbert Island Bible with compunction . 
So Eglon looked on Ehud . 
Not the nature , but the congruity of men's deeds and circumstances damn and save them and Tebureimoa from the first has been incongruously placed . 
At home , in a quiet bystreet of a village , the man had been a worthy carpenter , and , even bedevilled as he is , he shows some private virtues . 
An affectionate brother , a good economist he was besides a handy carpenter , and cobbled occasionally on the woodwork of the palace . 
It is not wonderful that Mr. Corpse has virtues that Tebureimoa should have a diversion filled me with surprise . 
Two San Francisco firms are here established , Messrs . 
Wightman Brothers the first hard by the palace of the mid town , the second at the north entry each with a store and bar room . 
Our house was in the Wightman compound , betwixt the store and bar , within a fenced enclosure . 
Across the road a few native houses nestled in the margin of the bush , and the green wall of palms rose solid , shutting out the breeze . 
A little sandy cove of the lagoon ran in behind , sheltered by a verandah pier , the labour of queens' hands . 
The mystery of the copra trade tormented me , as I sat and watched the profits drip on the stair and the sands . 
They sing with a certain lustiness and Bacchic glee the volume of sound and the articulate melody fall unexpected from the tree top , whence we anticipate the chattering of fowls . 
The prayer is at least answered and when the foaming shell is brought to your door , you have a beverage well 'worthy of a grace . 
is worn turban wise in a frizzled bush and like the daggers of the Japanese a pointed stick is thrust gallantly among the curls . 
A sneeze , you think , and the lady must surely be left destitute . 
Yet if a pretty Gilbertine would look her best , that must be her costume . 
In that and naked otherwise , she moves with an incomparable liberty and grace and life , that marks the poetry of Micronesia . 
Bundle her in a gown , the charm is fled , and she wriggles like an Englishwoman . 
Towards dusk the passers by became more gorgeous . 
The men broke out in all the colours of the rainbow or at least of the trade room , and both men and women began to be adorned and scented with new flowers . 
A small white blossom is the favourite , sometimes sown singly in a woman's hair like little stars , now composed in a thick wreath . 
At nine , bed time struck on a bell from the cathedral , and the life of the town ceased . 
Only the police themselves go darkling , and grope in the night for misdemeanants . 
But the rogue was privileged . 
Not one of the eleven resident traders came to town , no captain cast anchor in the lagoon , but we saw him ere the hour was out . 
This was owing to our position between the store and the bar the SANS SOUCI , as the last was called . 
Mr. Rick was not only Messrs . 
Even these , if they did not appear upon the north , would be presently visible to the southward , the SANS SOUCI drawing them as with cords . 
sparkled with glass and glowed with coloured pictures like a theatre at Christmas . 
The pictures were advertisements , the glass coarse enough , the carpentry amateur but the effect , in that incongruous isle , was of unbridled luxury and inestimable expense . 
Here songs were sung , tales told , tricks performed , games played . 
The traders , all bred to the sea , take a humorous pride in their new business 'South Sea Merchants' is the title they prefer . 
'We are all sailors here' 'Merchants , if you please' 'SOUTH SEA Merchants , was a piece of conversation endlessly repeated , that never seemed to lose in savour . 
We found them at all times simple , genial , gay , gallant , and obliging and , across some interval of time , recall with pleasure the traders of Butaritari . 
There was one black sheep indeed . 
He had the name on the beach of 'a perfect gentleman when sober , but I never saw him otherwise than drunk . 
The few shocking and savage traits of the Micronesian he has singled out with the skill of a collector , and planted in the soil of his original baseness . 
He has been accused and acquitted of a treacherous murder and has since boastfully owned it , which inclines me to suppose him innocent . 
The wife has since fled and harbours in the bush with natives and the husband still demands from deaf ears her forcible restoration . 
The best of his business is to make natives drink , and then advance the money for the fine upon a lucrative mortgage . 
'Respect for whites' is the man's word 'What is the matter with this island is the want of respect for whites . 
At an early stage of the acquaintance we proved our respect for his kind of white by forbidding him our enclosure under pain of death . 
Our enclosure , round which this composite of degradations wandered , was of some extent . 
In one corner was a trellis with a long table of rough boards . 
In the midst was the house , with a verandah front and back , and three is rooms within . 
In the verandah we slung our man of war hammocks , worked there by day , and slept at night . 
Within were beds , chairs , a round table , a fine hanging lamp , and portraits of the royal family of Hawaii . 
Queen Victoria proves nothing Kalakaua and Mrs. Bishop are diagnostic and the truth is we were the stealthy tenants of the parsonage . 
There was never a more fortunate conception the heart of the fatted king exulted in his bosom at the sound . 
He loved to exaggerate , to act and overact the momentary part , to exercise his lungs and muscles , and to speak and laugh with his whole body . 
He had the morning cheerfulness of birds and healthy children and his humour was infectious . 
Yet I always suspected Maka of a secret melancholy these jubilant extremes could scarce be constantly maintained . 
He was besides long , and lean , and lined , and corded , and a trifle grizzled and his Sabbath countenance was even saturnine . 
amongst the women , and the small missionary contingent gathered close around the platform , we were lost in that round vault . 
Sleep breathed on my joints and eyelids , sleep hummed in my ears it reigned in the dim cathedral . 
In vain the preacher thumped the table in vain he singled and addressed by name particular hearers . 
To see him weekly flogging a dead horse and blowing a cold fire was a lesson in fortitude and constancy . 
It requires no law , no fire , and no scouting police , to withhold Maka and his countrymen from wandering in the night unlighted . 
our photographers were early stirring . 
Once more we traversed a silent town many were yet abed and asleep some sat drowsily in their open houses there was no sound of intercourse or business . 
The oval shed was full of men sitting cross legged . 
I was inclined at first to view this scene with suspicion . 
We had come , thinking to photograph him surrounded by his guards , and at the first word of the design his piety revolted . 
We were reminded of the day the Sabbath , in which thou shalt take no photographs and returned with a flea in our ear , bearing the rejected camera . 
At church , a little later , I was struck to find the throne unoccupied . 
So nice a Sabbatarian might have found the means to be present perhaps my doubts revived and before I got home they were transformed to certainties . 
Tom , the bar keeper of the SANS SOUCI , was in conversation with two emissaries from the court . 
The 'keen , they said , wanted 'din , failing which 'perandi . 
No din , was Tom's reply , and no perandi but 'pira' if they pleased . 
It seems they had no use for beer , and departed sorrowing . 
'Why , what is the meaning of all this ? I asked . 
'Is the island on the spree ? Such was the fact . 
On the th of July a feast had been made , and the king , at the suggestion of the whites , had raised the tapu against liquor . 
unduly and it now began to be a question how it might conclude . 
The degree of the peril was not easy to measure at the time , and I am inclined to think now it was easy to exaggerate . 
It must be thought besides that we were here in barbarous islands , rarely visited , lately and partly civilised . 
At the same hour we returned to the same muniap' . 
The orgie had proceeded further than on Sunday . 
It was our diversion , in this time of waiting , to observe the gathering of the guards . 
They have European arms , European uniforms , and European shoes . 
in the article of being armed two men and a stalwart woman were scarce strong enough to boot him and after a single appearance on parade the army is crippled for a week . 
The day had begun ill eleven hours divided us from sunset and at any moment , on the most trifling chance , the trouble might begin . 
there was nothing left but to go down fighting , the half amused , half anxious attitude of mind in which we were awaiting fresh developments . 
The kummel soon ran out we were scarce returned before the king had followed us in quest of more . 
There was never a more lively deputation . 
The whalerman was gapingly , tearfully tipsy the courtier walked on air the king himself was even sportive . 
Seated in a chair in the Ricks' sitting room , he bore the brunt of our prayers and menaces unmoved . 
He was even rated , plied with historic instances , threatened with the men of war , ordered to restore the tapu on the spot and nothing in the least affected him . 
It should be done to morrow , he said to day it was beyond his power , to day he durst not . 
'Is that royal ? cried indignant Mr. Rick . 
The terms indeed were hardly equal for the king was the only man who could restore the tapu , but the Ricks were not the only people who sold drink . 
He had but to hold his ground on the first question , and they were sure to weaken on the second . 
A little struggle they still made for the fashion's sake and then one exceedingly tipsy deputation departed , greatly rejoicing , a case of brandy wheeling beside them in a barrow . 
wrung me by the hand like a man bound on a far voyage . 
You could never say the town was quiet all morning there was a ferment in the air , an aimless movement and congregation of natives in the street . 
The SANS SOUCI was overrun with rabble , the stair and verandah thronged . 
From all these throats an inarticulate babbling cry went up incessantly it sounded like the bleating of young lambs , but angrier . 
stood crying upon Tom on the top step , tossed in the hurly burly , Tom was shouting to the prince . 
Yet a while the pack swayed about the bar , vociferous . 
Had his face been raised , we should have seen it bloodied , and the blood was not his own . 
The courtier with the turban of frizzed hair had paid the costs of this disturbance with the lower part of one ear . 
So the brawl passed with no other casualty than might seem comic to the inhumane . 
Yet we looked round on serious faces and a fact that spoke volumes Tom was putting up the shutters on the bar . 
Custom might go elsewhere , Mr. Williams might profit as he pleased , but Tom had had enough of bar keeping for that day . 
Indeed the event had hung on a hair . 
The mob insensibly melted from the scene and for the rest of the day our neighbourhood was left in peace and a good deal in solitude . 
But the tranquillity was only local DIN and PERANDI still flowed in other quarters and we had one more sight of Gilbert Island violence . 
In the church , where we had wandered photographing , we were startled by a sudden piercing outcry . 
The scene , looking forth from the doors of that great hall of shadow , was unforgettable . 
The palms , the quaint and scattered houses , the flag of the island streaming from its tall staff , glowed with intolerable sunshine . 
In the midst two women rolled fighting on the grass . 
The combatants were the more easy to be distinguished , because the one was stripped to the RIDI and the other wore a holoku of some lively colour . 
The first was uppermost , her teeth locked in her adversary's face , shaking her like a dog the other impotently fought and scratched . 
So for a moment we saw them wallow and grapple there like vermin then the mob closed and shut them in . 
It was a serious question that night if we should sleep ashore . 
Mindful of Taahauku , Mr. Rick , Mr. Osbourne , and Mrs. Stevenson held an assault of arms on the public highway , and fired at bottles to the admiration of the natives . 
The harm done was probably not much , yet I could have looked on death and massacre with less revolt . 
The return to these primeval weapons , the vision of man's beastliness , of his ferality , shocked in me a deeper sense than that with which we count the cost of battles . 
There are elements in our state and history which it is a pleasure to forget , which it is perhaps the better wisdom not to dwell on . 
Crime , pestilence , and death are in the day's work the imagination readily accepts them . 
CHAPTER V A TALE OF A TAPU CONTINUED TUESDAY , JULY . 
It rained in the night , sudden and loud , in Gilbert Island fashion . 
Before the day , the crowing of a cock aroused me and I wandered in the compound and along the street . 
It seemed strange that , in a town resigned to drunkenness and tumult , curfew and reveille should still be sounded and still obeyed . 
The day came , and brought little change . 
The place still lay silent the people slept , the town slept . 
It was scarce the fact rather a just and necessary parable of the fact , corrected for latitude and it certainly told upon the king . 
that I was a man of some importance , but not dreamed it was as bad as this and the missionary house was tapu'd under a fine of fifty dollars . 
So much was announced on the return of the deputation not any more and I gathered subsequently that much more had passed . 
The protection gained was welcome . 
was free from these intrusions . 
We dined under a bare trellis erected for the Fourth of July and here we used to linger by lamplight over coffee and tobacco . 
Here and there the gloss upon a leaf , or the fracture of a stone , returned an isolated sparkle . 
On Tuesday the dusk had fallen , the lamp had just been brought , when a missile struck the table with a rattling smack and rebounded past my ear . 
Three inches to one side and this page had never been written for the thing travelled like a cannon ball . 
It was supposed at the time to be a nut , though even at the time I thought it seemed a small one and fell strangely . 
The dusk had fallen once more , and the lamp been just brought out , when the same business was repeated . 
And again the missile whistled past my ear . 
One nut I had been willing to accept a second , I rejected utterly . 
I may have been right or wrong , but I believed I was the mark of some intimidation believed the missile was a stone , aimed not to hit , but to frighten . 
No idea makes a man more angry . 
And then the truth , so long concealed from us , came out . 
But there was worse ahead a feast was now preparing for the birthday of the little princess and the tributary chiefs of Kuma and Little Makin were expected daily . 
Strong in a following of numerous and somewhat savage clansmen , each of these was believed , like a Douglas of old , to be of doubtful loyalty . 
Brawls had already taken place blows had passed which might at any moment be repaid in blood . 
Some of the strangers were already here and already drinking if the debauch continued after the bulk of them had come , a collision , perhaps a revolution , was to be expected . 
It is felt by all to be an extreme expedient , neither safe , decent , nor dignified . 
A trader on Tarawa , heated by an eager rivalry , brought many cases of gin . 
At night , above all , when he was afraid to sleep , and heard shots and voices about him in the darkness , his remorse was black . 
For the business is easy to begin , but hazardous to stop . 
Hence , in some degree , the anxiety and helplessness of Mr. Rick . 
and address him thus 'I was getting ahead of you , now you are getting ahead of me , and I ask you to forego your profit . 
I got my place closed in safety , thanks to your continuing but now I think you have continued long enough . 
I begin to be alarmed and because I am afraid I ask you to confront a certain danger' ? It was not to be thought of . 
Something else had to be found and there was one person at one end of the town who was at least not interested in copra . 
There was little else to be said in favour of myself as an ambassador . 
I had arrived in the Wightman schooner , I was living in the Wightman compound , I was the daily associate of the Wightman coterie . 
It was egregious enough that I should now intrude unasked in the private affairs of Crawford's agent , and press upon him the sacrifice of his interests and the venture of his life . 
The night was very dark . 
There was service in the church , and the building glimmered through all its crevices like a dim Kirk Allowa' . 
I saw few other lights , but was indistinctly aware of many people stirring in the darkness , and a hum and sputter of low talk that sounded stealthy . 
my beard was sometimes on my shoulder as I went . 
Muller's was but partly lighted , and quite silent , and the gate was fastened . 
I could by no means manage to undo the latch . 
No wonder , since I found it afterwards to be four or five feet long a fortification in itself . 
'Who is that ? said he , like one who has no mind to welcome strangers . 
'My name is Stevenson , said I. 'O , Mr. Stevens ! I didn't know you . 
We stepped into the dark store , when I leaned upon the counter and he against the wall . 
All the light came from the sleeping room , where I saw his family being put to bed it struck full in my face , but Mr. Muller stood in shadow . 
No doubt he expected what was Coming , and sought the advantage of position but for a man who wished to persuade and had nothing to conceal , mine was the preferable . 
'Look here , I began , 'I hear you are selling to the natives . 
'Others have done that before me , he returned pointedly . 
'No doubt , said I , 'and I have nothing to do with the past , but the future . 
I want you to promise you will handle these spirits carefully . 
'I know , and you know , these spirits ought not to be used at all . 
'Tom and Mr. Rick have sold them before . 
'I have nothing to do with Tom and Mr. Rick . 
All I know is I have heard them both refuse . 
'No , I suppose you have nothing to do with them . 
Then you are just afraid of your life . 
'Come now , I cried , being perhaps a little stung , 'you know in your heart I am asking a reasonable thing . 
I don't ask you to lose your profit though I would prefer to see no spirits brought here , as you would 'I don't say I wouldn't . 
I didn't begin this , he interjected . 
'It isn't me that sells , said he . 
'No , it's that nigger , I agreed . 
'But he's yours to buy and sell you have your hand on the nape of his neck and I ask you I have my wife here to use the authority you have . 
He hastily returned to his old ward . 
'I don't deny I could if I wanted , said he . 
'But there's no danger , the natives are all quiet . 
You're just afraid of your life . 
I do not like to be called a coward , even by implication and here I lost my temper and propounded an untimely ultimatum . 
'You had better put it plain , I cried . 
'Do you mean to refuse me what I ask ? 'I don't want either to refuse it or grant it , he replied . 
I see what's wrong with you you think I came from the opposite camp . 
I see the sort of man you are , and you know that what I ask is right . 
'If the natives get any drink , it isn't safe to stop them , he objected . 
'I'll be answerable for the bar , I said . 
'We are three men and four revolvers we'll come at a word , and hold the place against the village . 
'You don't know what you're talking about it's too dangerous ! he cried . 
He talked a while about his duty to the firm I minded not at all , I was secure of victory . 
He was but waiting to capitulate , and looked about for any potent to relieve the strain . 
In the gush of light from the bedroom door I spied a cigar holder on the desk . 
'That is well coloured , said I. 'Will you take a cigar ? said he . 
I took it and held it up unlighted . 
'Now , said I , 'you promise me . 
'I promise you you won't have any trouble from natives that have drunk at my place , he replied . 
'That is all I ask , said I , and showed it was not by immediately offering to try his stock . 
So far as it was anyway critical our interview here ended . 
Mr. Muller had thenceforth ceased to regard me as an emissary from his rivals , dropped his defensive attitude , and spoke as he believed . 
I could make out that he would already , had he dared , have stopped the sale himself . 
egged him on to a new peril , which was all gain to them , all loss to him ! I asked him what he thought of the danger from the feast . 
'I think worse of it than any of you , he answered . 
'They were shooting around here last night , and I heard the balls too . 
I said to myself , That's bad . 
What gets me is why you should be making this row up at your end . 
I should be the first to go . 
It was a thoughtless wonder . 
The consolation of being second is not great the fact , not the order of going there was our concern . 
Scott talks moderately of looking forward to a time of fighting 'with a feeling that resembled pleasure . 
The resemblance seems rather an identity . 
It promised certainly to be a busy and eventful day . 
As I recall our humour I think it would have gone hard with the mulatto . 
It was as well , and yet it was disappointing that these thunder clouds rolled off in silence . 
This day we had the afterpiece of the debauch . 
Before sermon his majesty clambered from the dais , stood lopsidedly upon the gravel floor , and in a few words abjured drinking . 
The queen followed suit with a yet briefer allocution . 
All the men in church were next addressed in turn each held up his right hand , and the affair was over throne and church were reconciled . 
CHAPTER VI THE FIVE DAYS' FESTIVAL THURSDAY , JULY . 
They are said to be more savage , and to be proud of the distinction . 
Indeed , it seemed to us they swaggered in the town , like plaided Highlanders upon the streets of Inverness , conscious of barbaric virtues . 
In the afternoon the summer parlour was observed to be packed with people others standing outside and stooping to peer under the eaves , like children at home about a circus . 
It was the Makin company , rehearsing for the day of competition . 
A strong breathless heat reigned under the iron roof , and the air was heavy with the scent of wreaths . 
A varying number of soloists stood up for different songs and these bore the chief part in the music . 
on the left breast the time was exquisite , the music barbarous , but full of conscious art . 
I noted some devices constantly employed . 
with no break of the measure , but emphasised by a sudden dramatic heightening of the voice and a swinging , general gesticulation . 
It means two four time with quaver , quaver , crotchet repeated for three bars . 
Presently the troop stood up in a body , the drums forming a half circle for the soloists , who were sometimes five or even more in number . 
Of all so called dancing in the South Seas , that which I saw in Butaritari stands easily the first . 
But the Gilbert Island dance leads on the mind it thrills , rouses , subjugates it has the essence of all art , an unexplored imminent significance . 
the same swift , elaborate , and often arbitrary movement , the toil of rehearsal is of course extreme . 
But they begin as children . 
The performers remained seated , except two , and once three , and twice a single soloist . 
These stood in the group , making a slight movement with the feet and rhythmical quiver of the body as they sang . 
There was a pause after the introductory , and then the real business of the opera for it was no less began an opera where every singer was an accomplished actor . 
My blood came hot and cold , tears pricked my eyes , my head whirled , I felt an almost irresistible impulse to join the dancers . 
One drama , I think , I very nearly understood . 
A fierce and savage old man took the solo part . 
There were also comic pieces , which caused great amusement . 
At no time was there the least sign of the ugly indecency of the eastern islands . 
All was poetry pure and simple . 
At last there was a longer pause , and this time the dancers were all on their feet . 
As the drama went on , the interest grew . 
A woman once sang from the back row with a very fine contralto voice spoilt by being made artificially nasal I notice all the women affect that unpleasantness . 
The little fellow was desperately frightened and embarrassed at first , but towards the close warmed up to his work and showed much dramatic talent . 
The changing expressions on the faces of the dancers were so speaking , that it seemed a great stupidity not to understand them . 
Our neighbour at this performance , Karaiti , somewhat favours his Butaritarian majesty in shape and feature , being , like him , portly , bearded , and Oriental . 
In character he seems the reverse alert , smiling , jovial , jocular , industrious . 
At home in his own island , he labours himself like a slave , and makes his people labour like a slave driver . 
He takes an interest in ideas . 
George the trader told him about flying machines . 
'Is that true , George ? he asked . 
'It is in the papers , replied George . 
His wives fished him out , for his wings hindered him in swimming . 
'George , said he , pausing as he went up to change , 'George , you lie . 
He had eight wives , for his small realm still follows ancient customs but he showed embarrassment when this was mentioned to my wife . 
'Tell her I have only brought one here , he said anxiously . 
At night in the dark , the singers of Makin paraded in the road before our house and sang the song of the princess . 
'This is the day she was born to day Nei Kamaunave was born to day a beautiful princess , Queen of Butaritari . 
So I was told it went in endless iteration . 
The song was of course out of season , and the performance only a rehearsal . 
But it was a serenade besides a delicate attention to ourselves from our new friend , Karaiti . 
We had announced a performance of the magic lantern to night in church and this brought the king to visit us . 
his usual two guardsmen were now increased to four and the squad made an outlandish figure as they straggled after him , in straw hats , kilts and jackets . 
The visit was extraordinarily long . 
The king , no longer galvanised with gin , said and did nothing . 
He sat collapsed in a chair and let a cigar go out . 
It was hot , it was sleepy , it was cruel dull there was no resource but to spy in the countenance of Tebureimoa for some remaining trait of MR . 
His hawk nose , crudely depressed and flattened at the point , did truly seem to us to smell of midnight murder . 
'Old man , said Maka . 
'Yes , said I , 'and yet I suppose not old man . 
'Young man , returned Maka , 'perhaps fo'ty . 
And I have heard since he is most likely younger . 
While the magic lantern was showing , I skulked without in the dark . 
The voice of Maka , excitedly explaining the Scripture slides , seemed to fill not the church only , but the neighbourhood . 
Presently a distant sound of singing arose and approached and a procession drew near along the road , the hot clean smell of the men and women striking in my face delightfully . 
At the corner , arrested by the voice of Maka and the lightening and darkening of the church , they paused . 
They had no mind to go nearer , that was plain . 
They were Makin people , I believe , probably staunch heathens , contemners of the missionary and his works . 
So the little band of the heathen paused irresolute at the corner , and melted before the attractions of a magic lantern , like a glacier in spring . 
Meanwhile inside the luminous pictures brightened and faded . 
Maka , in the opinion of his aggrieved wife , did not properly rise to the occasion . 
'What is the matter with the man ? Why can't he talk ? she cried . 
would appear strong proof of its occurrence . 
was received with shouts of merriment , in which even Maka was constrained to join . 
Karaiti was accordingly summoned that evening to the Ricks , where Mrs. Rick fell foul of him in words , and Queen Victoria's son assailed him with indignant looks . 
I was the ass with the lion's skin I could not roar in the language of the Gilbert Islands but I could stare . 
Karaiti declared he had meant no offence apologised in a sound , hearty , gentlemanly manner and became at once at his ease . 
The dagger was 'good for killing fish , he said roguishly and was supposed to have his eye upon fish upon two legs . 
It is at least odd that in Eastern Polynesia fish was the accepted euphemism for the human sacrifice . 
there will soon be plenty more , for all the women are in the family way . 
Long before we separated I had quite forgotten his offence . 
The great day came round at last . 
The little morsel of humanity thus celebrated in the dark hours was observed at midday playing on the green entirely naked , and equally unobserved and unconcerned . 
The summer parlour on its artificial islet , relieved against the shimmering lagoon , and shimmering itself with sun and tinned iron , was all day crowded about by eager men and women . 
Within , it was boxed full of islanders , of any age and size , and in every degree of nudity and finery . 
So close we squatted , that at one time I had a mighty handsome woman on my knees , two little naked urchins having their feet against my back . 
to contain his pistols the queen in a purple HOLOKU , her abundant hair let down , a fan in her hand . 
The royal couple occasionally solaced themselves with a clay pipe and the pomp of state was further heightened by the rifles of a picket of the guard . 
With this kingly countenance , and ourselves squatted on the ground , we heard several songs from one side or the other . 
Then royalty and its guards withdrew , and Queen Victoria's son and daughter in law were summoned by acclamation to the vacant throne . 
One was patriotic , and dared Tembinok' of Apemama , the terror of the group , to an invasion . 
One mixed the planting of taro and the harvest home . 
Some were historical , and commemorated kings and the illustrious chances of their time , such as a bout of drinking or a war . 
One , at least , was a drama of domestic interest , excellently played by the troop from Makin . 
Of some of the songs my informant told me briefly they were 'like about the WEEMEN' this I could have guessed myself . 
was strengthened by one or two women . 
for all the world like European ballet dancers . 
Similar affectations accompany certain truly obscene dances of Samoa , where they are very well in place . 
The words , perhaps , in this free spoken world , were gross enough to make a carter blush and the most suggestive feature was this feint of shame . 
For such parts the women showed some disposition they were pert , they were neat , they were acrobatic , they were at times really amusing , and some of them were pretty . 
Almost from the first it was apparent that the people of the city were defeated . 
To crown all , the Makin company began a dance of truly superlative merit . 
I know not what it was about , I was too much absorbed to ask . 
A more laughable effect I never saw in any European theatre it would have brought the house down , and the island audience roared with laughter and applause . 
This filled up the measure for the rival company , and they forgot themselves and decency . 
After each act or figure of the ballet , the performers pause a moment standing , and the next is introduced by the clapping of hands in triplets . 
Not until the end of the whole ballet do they sit down , which is the signal for the rivals to stand up . 
But now all rules were to be broken . 
During the interval following on this great applause , the company of Butaritari leaped suddenly to their feet and most unhandsomely began a performance of their own . 
I expected blows to begin with any moment and our position in the midst was highly unstrategical . 
But the Makin people had a better thought and upon a fresh interruption turned and trooped out of the house . 
We followed them , first because these were the artists , second because they were guests and had been scurvily ill used . 
All round the church , groups sat outside , in the night , where they could see nothing perhaps ashamed to enter , certainly finding some shadowy pleasure in the mere proximity . 
Within , about one half of the great shed was densely packed with people . 
There sat by me the mate of a wrecked schooner . 
'They would think this a strange sight in Europe or the States , said he , 'going on in a building like this , all tied with bits of string . 
CHAPTER VII HUSBAND AND WIFE THE trader accustomed to the manners of Eastern Polynesia has a lesson to learn among the Gilberts . 
as a 'Paradise of naked women' for the resident whites . 
It was at least a platonic Paradise , where Lothario ventured at his peril . 
The strange persistence of these fourteen martyrs might seem to point to monomania or a series of romantic passions gin is the more likely key . 
The poor buzzards sat alone in their houses by an open case they drank their brain was fired they stumbled towards the nearest houses on chance and the dart went through their liver . 
In place of a Paradise the trader found an archipelago of fierce husbands and of virtuous women . 
'Of course if you wish to make love to them , it's the same as anywhere else , observed a trader innocently but he and his companions rarely so choose . 
The trader must be credited with a virtue he often makes a kind and loyal husband . 
The position of a trader's wife in the Gilberts is , besides , unusually enviable . 
She shares the immunities of her husband . 
Curfew in Butaritari sounds for her in vain . 
The resources of the store are at her hand she goes arrayed like a queen , and feasts delicately everyday upon tinned meats . 
And she who was perhaps of no regard or station among natives sits with captains , and is entertained on board of schooners . 
Five of these privileged dames were some time our neighbours . 
Four were handsome skittish lasses , gamesome like children , and like children liable to fits of pouting . 
They wore dresses by day , but there was a tendency after dark to strip these lendings and to career and squall about the compound in the aboriginal RIDI . 
resolved itself into a scrimmage for the counters . 
The fifth was a matron . 
The service was enlivened by her continual supervision and correction of the maid . 
It was impossible not to fancy the baby was a doll , and the church some European playroom . 
All these women were legitimately married . 
Another , I heard , was married on a work of mine in a pirated edition it answered the purpose as well as a Hall Bible . 
While I was in the group one had been eight months on the quest , and he was still a bachelor . 
Within strictly native society the old laws and practices were harsh , but not without a certain stamp of high mindedness . 
Stealthy adultery was punished with death open elopement was properly considered virtue in comparison , and compounded for a fine in land . 
The male adulterer alone seems to have been punished . 
It is correct manners for a jealous man to hang himself a jealous woman has a different remedy she bites her rival . 
The RIDI was the badge not of the woman but the wife , the mark not of her sex but of her station . 
It was the collar on the slave's neck , the brand on merchandise . 
The adulterous woman seems to have been spared were the husband offended , it would be a poor consolation to send his draught cattle to the shambles . 
This form of words had so much virtue that a condemned criminal repeating it on a particular day to the king who had condemned him , must be instantly released . 
It is an offer of abasement , and , strangely enough , the reverse the imitation is a common vulgar insult in Great Britain to this day . 
'Go and light a fire , said the trader , 'and when I have brought this oil I will cook some fish . 
The woman grunted at him , island fashion . 
'I am not a pig that you should grunt at me , said he . 
'I know you are not a pig , said the woman , 'neither am I your slave . 
'To be sure you are not my slave , and if you do not care to stop with me , you had better go home to your people , said he . 
'But in the mean time go and light the fire and when I have brought this oil I will cook some fish . 
She went as if to obey and presently when the trader looked she had built a fire so big that the cook house was catching in flames . 
'I KANA KIM ! she cried , as she saw him coming but he recked not , and hit her with a cooking pot . 
The leg pierced her skull , blood spouted , it was thought she was a dead woman , and the natives surrounded the house in a menacing expectation . 
Another white was present , a man of older experience . 
'You will have us both killed if you go on like this , he cried . 
'She had said I KANA KIM ! If she had not said I KANA KIM he might have struck her with a caldron . 
It was not the blow that made the crime , but the disregard of an accepted formula . 
And not so in the least . 
It is a mere appearance . 
The authority is not with the husband as such , nor the wife as such . 
There is but the one source of power and the one ground of dignity rank . 
The king married a chief woman she became his menial , and must work with her hands on Messrs . 
The king divorced her she regained at once her former state and power . 
She married the Hawaiian sailor , and behold the man is her flunkey and can be shown the door at pleasure . 
Nay , and such low born lords are even corrected physically , and , like grown but dutiful children , must endure the discipline . 
We were intimate in one such household , that of Nei Takauti and Nan Tok' I put the lady first of necessity . 
During one week of fool's paradise , Mrs. Stevenson had gone alone to the sea side of the island after shells . 
I am very sure the proceeding was unsafe and she soon perceived a man and woman watching her . 
Nan Tok' , the husband , was young , extremely handsome , of the most approved good humour , and suffering in his precarious station from suppressed high spirits . 
Nei Takauti , the wife , was getting old her grown son by a former marriage had just hanged himself before his mother's eyes in despair at a well merited rebuke . 
Perhaps she had never been beautiful , but her face was full of character , her eye of sombre fire . 
stuck in her hair and thrust through her huge earring holes . 
The husband on the contrary changed to view like a kaleidoscope . 
It was plain he was a clothes horse that he wore livery that , in a word , he was his wife's wife . 
When Nei Takauti had a headache Nan Tok' was full of attention and concern . 
When the husband had a cold and a racking toothache the wife heeded not , except to jeer . 
Thus she kept the money , but it was he who ran the errands , anxiously sedulous . 
A cloud on her face dimmed instantly his beaming looks on an early visit to their maniap' my wife saw he had cause to be wary . 
Nei Takauti mentioned her own name . 
Instantly Nan Tok' held up two fingers , his friend did likewise , both in an ecstasy of slyness . 
It was plain the lady had two names and from the nature of their merriment , and the wrath that gathered on her brow , there must be something ticklish in the second . 
The people of Eastern Polynesia are never at a loss their etiquette is absolute and plenary in every circumstance it tells them what to do and how to do it . 
This was often the case with the topsy turvy couple . 
They ended by taking it , and I wager were not yet clear of the compound before they were sure they had decided wrong . 
Another time they had been given each a liberal cup of coffee , and Nan Tok' with difficulty and disaffection made an end of his . 
'I have swallowed all I can , I cannot swallow more , it is a physical impossibility , he seemed to say and his stern officer reiterated her commands with secret imperative signals . 
Luckless dog ! but in mere humanity we came to the rescue and removed the cup . 
I cannot but smile over this funny household yet I remember the good souls with affection and respect . 
Their attention to ourselves was surprising . 
It was no want of only that disregard so incident to husbands , that made Nei Takauti despise the sufferings of Nan Tok' . 
When my wife was unwell she proved a diligent and kindly nurse and the pair , to the extreme embarrassment of the sufferer , became fixtures in the sick room . 
from their brother islanders in the east . 
Through the rest of the group the kings are slain or fallen in tutelage Tembinok' alone remains , the last tyrant , the last erect vestige of a dead society . 
The white man is everywhere else , building his houses , drinking his gin , getting in and out of trouble with the weak native governments . 
There is only one white on Apemama , and he on sufferance , living far from court , and hearkening and watching his conduct like a mouse in a cat's ear . 
Through all the other islands a stream of native visitors comes and goes , travelling by families , spending years on the grand tour . 
Apemama alone is left upon one side , the tourist dreading to risk himself within the clutch of Tembinok' . 
And fear of the same Gorgon follows and troubles them at home . 
Maiana once paid him tribute he once fell upon and seized Nonuti first steps to the empire of the archipelago . 
A British warship coming on the scene , the conqueror was driven to disgorge , his career checked in the outset , his dear bought armoury sunk in his own lagoon . 
We were at sea , bound from Mariki to Nonuti and Tapituea , when the wind came suddenly fair for Apemama . 
The course was at once changed all hands were turned to to clean ship , the decks holy stoned , all the cabin washed , the trade room overhauled . 
In all our cruising we never saw the EQUATOR so smart as she was made for Tembinok' . 
Nor was Captain Reid alone in these coquetries for , another schooner chancing to arrive during my stay in Apemama , I found that she also was dandified for the occasion . 
And the two cases stand alone in my experience of South Sea traders . 
to regain their native island of Peru . 
Five times already they had paid their fare and taken ship five times they had been disappointed , dropped penniless upon strange islands , or carried back to Butaritari , whence they sailed . 
This last attempt had been no better starred their provisions were exhausted . 
Peru was beyond hope , and they had cheerfully made up their minds to a fresh stage of exile in Tapituea or Nonuti . 
Their camp , which was on deck in the ship's waist , resounded with complaint . 
They would be set to work , they must become slaves , escape was hopeless , they must live and toil and die in Apemama , in the tyrant's den . 
must at last be torn screaming from the schooner's side . 
And their fears were wholly groundless . 
I have little doubt they were not suffered to be idle but I can vouch for it that they were kindly and generously used . 
For , the matter of a year later , I was once more shipmate with these inconsistent wanderers on board the JANET NICOLL . 
It was a day of fierce equatorial sunshine but the breeze was strong and chill and the mate , who conned the schooner from the cross trees , returned shivering to the deck . 
The lagoon was thick with many tinted wavelets a continuous roaring of the outer sea overhung the anchorage and the long , hollow crescent of palm ruffled and sparkled in the wind . 
The village adjoins on the south , a cluster of high roofed maniap's . 
And village and palace seemed deserted . 
The boat's crew , having applied this engine , returned at once to shore . 
They might not come on board neither might we land , or not without danger of offence the king giving pratique in person . 
come flying towards us dead before the wind , and the royal coxswain lay us cleverly aboard , mount the ladder with a jealous diffidence , and descend heavily on deck . 
Not long ago he was overgrown with fat , obscured to view , and a burthen to himself . 
Captains visiting the island advised him to walk and though it broke the habits of a life and the traditions of his rank , he practised the remedy with benefit . 
His corpulence is now portable you would call him lusty rather than fat but his gait is still dull , stumbling , and elephantine . 
He neither stops nor hastens , but goes about his business with an implacable deliberation . 
His voice matched it well , being shrill , powerful , and uncanny , with a note like a sea bird's . 
This masquerade becomes him admirably . 
In the woman's frock he looks ominous and weird beyond belief . 
I see him now come pacing towards me in the cruel sun , solitary , a figure out of Hoffmann . 
A visit on board ship , such as that at which we now assisted , makes a chief part and by far the chief diversion of the life of Tembinok' . 
He is not only the sole ruler , he is the sole merchant of his triple kingdom , Apemama , Aranuka , and Kuria , well planted islands . 
'A' cobra berong me , observed his majesty with a wave of his hand and he counts and sells it by the houseful . 
'You got copra , king ? I have heard a trader ask . 
'I got two , three outches , his majesty replied 'I think three . 
He oscillates between the cabin , where he is entertained with strange meats , and the trade room , where he enjoys the pleasures of shopping on a scale to match his person . 
A few obsequious attendants squat by the house door , awaiting his least signal . 
This severity is now and then relaxed and the wives allowed on board . 
Three or four were thus favoured on the day of our arrival substantial ladies airily attired in RIDIS . 
Each had a share of copra , her PECULIUM , to dispose of for herself . 
The display in the trade room hats , ribbbons , dresses , scents , tins of salmon the pride of the eye and the lust of the flesh tempted them in vain . 
The king is no such economist . 
He is greedy of things new and foreign . 
And still his lust is unabated . 
He is possessed by the seven devils of the collector . 
He hears a thing spoken of , and a shadow comes on his face . 
'I think I no got him , he will say and the treasures he has seem worthless in comparison . 
If a ship be bound for Apemama , the merchant racks his brain to hit upon some novelty . 
This he leaves carelessly in the main cabin or partly conceals in his own berth , so that the king shall spy it for himself . 
'How much you want ? inquires Tembinok' , passing and pointing . 
'No , king that too dear , returns the trader . 
'I think I like him , says the king . 
This was a bowl of gold fish . 
On another occasion it was scented soap . 
'No , king that cost too much , said the trader 'too good for a Kanaka . 
'How much you got ? I take him all , replied his majesty , and became the lord of seventeen boxes at two dollars a cake . 
Or again , the merchant feigns the article is not for sale , is private property , an heirloom or a gift and the trick infallibly succeeds . 
Thwart the king and you hold him . 
His autocratic nature rears at the affront of opposition . 
He accepts it for a challenge sets his teeth like a hunter going at a fence and with no mark of emotion , scarce even of interest , stolidly piles up the price . 
Thus , for our sins , he took a fancy to my wife's dressing bag , a thing entirely useless to the man , and sadly battered by years of service . 
Early one forenoon he came to our house , sat down , and abruptly offered to purchase it . 
In vain I continued to protest I was no trader he deigned not to reply . 
Since his majesty thought so much of the bag , we said , we must beg him to accept it as a present . 
It was the most surprising turn in Tembinok's experience . 
He perceived too late that his persistence was unmannerly hung his head a while in silence then , lifting up a sheepish countenance , 'I 'shamed , said the tyrant . 
It was the first and the last time we heard him own to a flaw in his behaviour . 
Half an hour after he sent us a camphor wood chest worth only a few dollars but then heaven knows what Tembinok' had paid for it . 
His efforts have been even heroic . 
Like Nakaeia of Makin , he has owned schooners . 
More fortunate than Nakaeia , he has found captains . 
Ships of his have sailed as far as to the colonies . 
He has trafficked direct , in his own bottoms , with New Zealand . 
At this he dropped his weapons owned he might as hopefully wrestle with the winds of heaven and like an experienced sheep , submitted his fleece thenceforward to the shearers . 
For the first two classes he expressed perfect toleration sometimes , but not always , for the third . 
of patching up the dispute . 
Even on the day of our arrival there was like to have been a hitch with Captain Reid the ground of which is perhaps worth recital . 
Among goods exported specially for Tembinok' there is a beverage known as Hennessy's brandy . 
It is neither Hennessy , nor even brandy is about the colour of sherry , but is not sherry tastes of kirsch , and yet neither is it kirsch . 
A similar weakness is to be observed in all connoisseurs . 
Now the last case sold by the EQUATOR was found to contain a different and I would fondly fancy a superior distillation and the conversation opened very black for Captain Reid . 
But Tembinok' is a moderate man . 
Tuppoti you mi'take , I 'peakee you . 
CHAPTER II THE KING OF APEMAMA FOUNDATION OF EQUATOR TOWN OUR first sight of Tembinok' was a matter of concern , almost alarm , to my whole party . 
We had a favour to seek we must approach in the proper courtly attitude of a suitor and must either please him or fail in the main purpose of our voyage . 
It was our wish to land and live in Apemama , and see more near at hand the odd character of the man and the odd condition of his island . 
Hence the attraction of our enterprise not merely because it was a little difficult , but because this social quarantine , a curiosity in itself , has been the preservative of others . 
Tembinok' , like most tyrants , is a conservative like many conservatives , he eagerly welcomes new ideas , and , except in the field of politics , leans to practical reform . 
His education attended to , he found time to become critical of the new inmates . 
The service , and in particular the sermon , were thus sure to become offences 'Here , in my island , I 'peak , he once observed to me . 
'My chieps no 'peak do what I talk . 
He looked at the missionary , and what did he see ? 'See Kanaka 'peak in a big outch ! he cried , with a strong ring of sarcasm . 
Yet he endured the subversive spectacle , and might even have continued to endure it , had not a fresh point arisen . 
He looked again , to employ his own figure and the Kanaka was no longer speaking , he was doing worse he was building a copra house . 
The king was touched in his chief interests revenue and prerogative were threatened . 
that trade is incompatible with the missionary claims . 
'Tuppoti mitonary think good man very good . 
Tuppoti he think cobra no good . 
I send him away ship . 
Such was his abrupt history of the evangelist in Apemama . 
Similar deportations are common 'I send him away ship' is the epitaph of not a few , his majesty paying the exile's fare to the next place of call . 
For instance , being passionately fond of European food , he has several times added to his household a white cook , and one after another these have been deported . 
They , on their side , swear they were not paid their wages he , on his , that they robbed and swindled him beyond endurance both perhaps justly . 
by a firm of merchants to worm his way into the king's good graces , become , if possible , premier , and handle the copra in the interest of his employers . 
But it is needless to multiply examples the proof of the pudding is in the eating . 
The king made no shadow of an answer , and presently began upon a different subject . 
We might have thought that he had not heard , or not understood only that we found ourselves the subject of a constant study . 
As we sat at meals , he took us in series and fixed upon each , for near a minute at a time , the same hard and thoughtful stare . 
They shared also in my mortification when after two whole meal times and the odd moments of an afternoon devoted to this reconnoitring , Tembinok' took his leave in silence . 
You no lie , said the king a doubtful compliment to a writer of romance . 
Later he explained he did not quite judge by the eye only , but the mouth as well . 
'Tuppoti I see man , he explained . 
'I no tavvy good man , bad man . 
I look eye , look mouth . 
Look EYE , look mouth , he repeated . 
a vast amount of useful knowledge ere we left . 
The terms of our admission were as follows We were to choose a site , and the king should there build us a town . 
His people should work for us , but the king only was to give them orders . 
One of his cooks should come daily to help mine , and to learn of him . 
In case our stores ran out , he would supply us , and be repaid on the return of the EQUATOR . 
and no tobacco , which they were to receive only from the royal hand . 
The site of Equator City we named our city for the schooner was soon chosen . 
A well was not far off under a rustic well house nearer still , in a sandy cup of the land , a pond where we might wash our clothes . 
The place was out of the wind , out of the sun , and out of sight of the village . 
It was shown to the king , and the town promised for the morrow . 
The morrow came , Mr. Osbourne landed , found nothing done , and carried his complaint to Tembinok' . 
He heard it , rose , called for a Winchester , stepped without the royal palisade , and fired two shots in the air . 
In less than thirty minutes , accordingly , the men had mustered , the work was begun , and we were told that we might bring our baggage when we pleased . 
It was two in the afternoon ere the first boat was beached , and the long procession of chests and crates and sacks began to straggle through the sandy desert towards Equator Town . 
The grove of pandanus was practically a thing of the past . 
Fire surrounded and smoke rose in the green underbush . 
In a wide circuit the axes were still crashing . 
Long pauses reigned , during which the subjects stared and the king smoked . 
Then Tembinok' would raise his voice and speak shrilly and briefly . 
Twice they so disappeared , and returned with further elements of the city a second house and a second maniap' . 
swimming spontaneously in the air but on a nearer view betraying under the eaves many score of moving naked legs . 
In all the affair servile obedience was no less remarkable than servile deliberation . 
The spectator was aware of an unobtrusive yet invincible inertia , at which the skipper of a trading dandy might have torn his hair . 
Yet the work was accomplished . 
By dusk , when his majesty withdrew , the town was founded and complete , a new and ruder Amphion having called it from nothing with three cracks of a rifle . 
Yet the place , which is now only an episode in some memories , seemed to have been built , and to be destined to endure , for years . 
It was a busy hamlet . 
One of the maniap's we made our dining room , one the kitchen . 
The houses we reserved for sleeping . 
We had a hen of a remarkable kind almost unique in my experience , being a hen that occasionally laid eggs . 
Not far off , Mrs. Stevenson tended a garden of salad and shalots . 
The salad was devoured by the hen which was her bane . 
The shalots were served out a leaf at a time , and welcomed and relished like peaches . 
Toddy and green cocoa nuts were brought us daily . 
We once had a present of fish from the king , and once of a turtle . 
Sometimes we shot so called plover along on the shore , sometimes wild chicken in the bush . 
The rest of our diet was from tins . 
Our occupations were very various . 
While some of the party would be away sketching , Mr. Osbourne and I hammered away at a novel . 
Pot hunting engaged a part of our leisure . 
Night was the time to see our city , after the moon was up , after the lamps were lighted , and so long as the fire sparkled in the cook house . 
Our cabins , the sides being propped at a variety of inclinations , spelled out strange , angular patterns of brightness . 
In his roofed and open kitchen , Ah Fu was to be seen by lamp and firelight , dabbling among pots . 
Over all , there fell in the season an extraordinary splendour of mellow moonshine . 
The sand sparkled as with the dust of diamonds the stars had vanished . 
At intervals , a dusky night bird , slow and low flying , passed in the colonnade of the tree stems and uttered a hoarse croaking cry . 
CHAPTER III THE KING OF APEMAMA THE PALACE OF MANY WOMEN THE palace , or rather the ground which it includes , is several acres in extent . 
A terrace encloses it toward the lagoon on the side of the land , a palisade with several gates . 
Female wardens made a fit outpost for this palace of many women . 
Of the number of the king's wives I have no guess and but a loose idea of their function . 
He himself displayed embarrassment when they were referred to as his wives , called them himself 'my pamily , and explained they were his 'cutcheons' cousins . 
I am assured that even with her his relations are platonic . 
Not all of these of course are of 'my pamily , many are mere attendants yet a surprising number shared the responsibility of the king's trust . 
These were key bearers , treasurers , wardens of the armoury , the napery , and the stores . 
Each knew and did her part to admiration . 
Without delay or haste , and with the minimum of speech , the whole great establishment turned on wheels like a machine . 
Nowhere have I seen order more complete and pervasive . 
For these weapons are the life of Tembinok' . 
He does not aim at popularity but drives and braves his subjects , with a simplicity of domination which it is impossible not to admire , hard not to sympathise with . 
Yet those whom he so trusts are all women , and all rivals . 
There is indeed a ministry and staff of males cook , steward , carpenter , and supercargoes the hierarchy of a schooner . 
The spies , 'his majesty's daily papers , as we called them , come every morning to report , and go again . 
The cook and steward are concerned with the table only . 
I doubt if you could find a man in Europe so bold as to attempt this piece of tact and government . 
And seemingly Tembinok' himself had trouble in the beginning . 
I hear of him shooting at a wife for some levity on board a schooner . 
suffered it to putrefy before the palace gate . 
Doubtless his growing years have come to his assistance for upon so large a scale it is more easy to play the father than the husband . 
I conceived they made rather a hero of the man . 
A popular master in a girls' school might , perhaps , offer a figure of his preponderating station . 
In all my coming and going , I never heard him speak harshly or express the least displeasure . 
The wives spoke up and seemed to volunteer opinions , like our wives at home or , say , like doting but respectable aunts . 
perhaps failed to distinguish between degrees of rank , between 'my pamily' and the hangers on , laundresses , and prostitutes . 
A notable feature is the evening game of cards when lamps are set forth upon the terrace , and 'I and my pamily' play for tobacco by the hour . 
It is highly characteristic of Tembinok' that he must invent a game for himself highly characteristic of his worshipping household that they should swear by the absurd invention . 
It is founded on poker , played with the honours out of many packs , and inconceivably dreary . 
Tembinok' puts up a double stake , and receives in return two hands to choose from a shallow artifice which the wives have not yet fathomed . 
He himself , when talking with me privately , made not the least secret that he was secure of winning and it was thus he explained his recent liberality on board the EQUATOR . 
He let the wives buy their own tobacco , which pleased them at the moment . 
He won it back at cards , which made him once more , and without fresh expense , that which he ought to be , the sole fount of all indulgences . 
And he summed the matter up in that phrase with which he almost always concludes any account of his policy 'Mo' betta . 
The palace compound is laid with broken coral , excruciating to the eyes and the bare feet , but exquisitely raked and weeded . 
Suppose we had business with his majesty by day we strolled over the sand and by the dwarfish palms , exchanged a 'KONAMAORI' with the crone on duty , and entered the compound . 
The wide sheet of coral glared before us deserted all having stowed themselves in dark canvas from the excess of room . 
Tembinok' would be within , the flaps of the cabin raised , the trade blowing through , hearing their report . 
Sometimes the king deigns to laugh , sometimes to question or jest with them , his voice sounding shrilly from the cabin . 
By his side he may have the heir apparent , Paul , his nephew and adopted son , six years old , stark naked , and a model of young human beauty . 
And there will always be the favourite and perhaps two other wives awake four more lying supine under mats and whelmed in slumber . 
His competence , however , does not reach to music and his verses , when they are ready , are taught to a professional musician , who sets them and instructs the chorus . 
Asked what his songs were about , Tembinok' replied , 'Sweethearts and trees and the sea . 
Not all the same true , all the same lie . 
this would be hard to mend . 
I remember it best on moonless nights . 
The air was like a bath of milk . 
Countless shining stars were over head , the lagoon paved with them . 
Herds of wives squatted by companies on the gravel , softly chatting . 
Tembinok' would doff his jacket , and sit bare and silent , perhaps meditating songs the favourite usually by him , silent also . 
Presently these fared off into all corners of the precinct , lighting the last labours of the day , lighting one after another to their rest that prodigious company of women . 
Then these also were scattered and extinguished and their place was taken by a great bonfire , the night light of the palace . 
When this was no more , smaller fires burned likewise at the gates . 
These were tended by the crones , unseen , unsleeping not always unheard . 
CHAPTER IV THE KING OF APEMAMA EQUATOR TOWN AND THE PALACE FIVE persons were detailed to wait upon us . 
His face was ancient , droll , and diabolical , the skin stretched over taut sinews , like a sail on the guide rope and he smiled with every muscle of his head . 
After his toils were over he was given a pipe , matches , and tobacco , and sat on the floor in the maniap' to smoke . 
Such were the diversions of Uncle Parker , a man nearing sixty . 
But he was punished according unto his deeds Mrs. Stevenson took a fancy to paint him , and the sufferings of the sitter were beyond description . 
Three lasses came from the palace to do our washing and racket with Ah Fu . 
But they were all three of the same merry spirit . 
He was strikingly handsome both in face and body , lazy as a slave , and insolent as a butcher's boy . 
He slept and smoked on our premises in various graceful attitudes but so far from helping Ah Fu , he was not at the pains to watch him . 
It may be said of him that he came to learn , and remained to teach and his lessons were at times difficult to stomach . 
For example , he was sent to fill a bucket from the well . 
About half way he found my wife watering her onions , changed buckets with her , and leaving her the empty , returned to the kitchen with the full . 
On another occasion he was given a dish of dumplings for the king , was told they must be eaten hot , and that he should carry them as fast as possible . 
The wretch set off at the rate of about a mile in the hour , head in air , toes turned out . 
My patience , after a month of trial , failed me at the sight . 
He had the impudence to pretend he was internally injured by my violence , and to profess serious apprehensions for his life . 
All this we endured for the ways of Tembinok' are summary , and I was not yet ripe to take a hand in the man's death . 
But in the meanwhile , here was my unfortunate China boy slaving for the pair , and presently he fell sick . 
I was now in the position of Cimondain Lantenac , and indeed all the characters in QUATRE VINGT TREIZE to continue to spare the guilty , I must sacrifice the innocent . 
I took the usual course and tried to save both , with the usual consequence of failure . 
Well rehearsed , I went down to the palace , found the king alone , and obliged him with a vast amount of rigmarole . 
The cook was too old to learn I feared he was not making progress how if we had a boy instead ? boys were more teachable . 
It was all in vain the king pierced through my disguises to the root of the fact saw that the cook had desperately misbehaved and sat a while glooming . 
'I think he tavvy too much , he said at last , with grim concision and immediately turned the talk to other subjects . 
The same day another high officer , the steward , appeared in the cook's place , and , I am bound to say , proved civil and industrious . 
As soon as I left , it seems the king called for a Winchester and strolled outside the palisade , awaiting the defaulter . 
That day Tembinok' wore the woman's frock as like as not , his make up was completed by a pith helmet and blue spectacles . 
cooking syrup on their posts and this chimaera waiting with his deadly engine . 
To him , enter at last the cook , strolling down the sandhill from Equator Town , listless , vain and graceful with no thought of alarm . 
The effect upon the cook I had an opportunity of seeing for myself . 
As we drew nearer we saw it was the cook , beside himself with some emotion , his usual warm , mulatto colour declined into a bluish pallor . 
Doubtless in the curses that he there uttered to the bursting surf and the tropic birds , the name of the Kaupoi the rich man was frequently repeated . 
Time passed , and we saw no more of him . 
asked me who it was that followed me , I thought she spoke in jest . 
'Not at all , she said . 
'I saw him twice as you passed , walking close at your heels . 
He only left you at the corner of the maniap' he must be still behind the cook house . 
Thither I ran like a fool , without any weapon and came face to face with the cook . 
As he went I kicked him in that place where honour lies , and he gave tongue faintly like an injured mouse . 
At the moment I daresay he supposed it was a deadly instrument that touched him . 
What had the man been after ? I have found my music better qualified to scatter than to collect an audience . 
And whatever his design , it was impossible I should suffer him to prowl by night among the houses . 
A word to the king , and the man were not , his case being far beyond pardon . 
I told Ah Fu the story , and bade him fetch me the cook whenever he should find him . 
Yet he came with an assured countenance , volunteered no apology or explanation , complained of injuries received , and pretended he was unable to sit down . 
Ah Fu could not control his merriment . 
On my side , knowing what must be the nature of his apprehensions , I found in so much impudence a kind of gallantry , and secretly admired the man . 
He must have been incredibly relieved but he showed no sign of it , took himself off with his usual dandy nonchalance , and was scarce seen by us again . 
These five , then , with the substitution of the steward for the cook , came and went , and were our only visitors . 
The circle of the tapu held at arm's length the inhabitants of the village . 
There remains only the king to be accounted for . 
He would come strolling over , always alone , a little before a meal time , take a chair , and talk and eat with us like an old family friend . 
Gilbertine etiquette appears defective on the point of leave taking . 
It was the only blot upon his manners , which were otherwise plain , decent , sensible , and dignified . 
He never stayed long nor drank much , and copied our behaviour where he perceived it to differ from his own . 
Very early in the day , for instance , he ceased eating with his knife . 
It was plain he was determined in all things to wring profit from our visit , and chiefly upon etiquette . 
were tapu on the quarter deck of a man of war and he begged in consequence that we should watch and correct him on the point . 
We were able to assure him that he was beyond correction . 
His vocabulary is apt and ample to an extraordinary degree . 
God knows where he collected it , but by some instinct or some accident he has avoided all profane or gross expressions . 
'Obliged , 'stabbed , 'gnaw , 'lodge , 'power , 'company , 'slender , 'smooth , and 'wonderful , are a few of the unexpected words that enrich his dialect . 
Perhaps what pleased him most was to hear about saluting the quarter deck of a man of war . 
In his gratitude for this hint he became fulsome . 
'Schooner cap'n no tell me , he cried 'I think no tavvy ! You tavvy too much tavvy 'teama' , tavvy man a wa' . 
I think you tavvy everything . 
Yet he gravelled me often enough with his perpetual questions and the false Mr. Barlow stood frequently exposed before the royal Sandford . 
I remember once in particular . 
We were showing the magic lantern a slide of Windsor Castle was put in , and I told him there was the 'outch' of Victoreea . 
'How many pathom he high ? he asked , and I was dumb before him . 
It was the builder , the indefatigable architect of palaces , that spoke collector though he was , he did not collect useless information and all his questions had a purpose . 
After etiquette , government , law , the police , money , and medicine were his chief interests things vitally important to himself as a king and the father of his people . 
It was my part not only to supply new information , but to correct the old . 
'My patha he tell me , or 'White man he tell me , would be his constant beginning 'You think he lie ? Sometimes I thought he did . 
Tembinok' once brought me a difficulty of this kind , which I was long of comprehending . 
Here he sought long and earnestly Paul he found , and Festus and Alexander the coppersmith no word of Cook . 
The inference was obvious the explorer was a myth . 
So hard it is , even for a man of great natural parts like Tembinok' , to grasp the ideas of a new society and culture . 
CHAPTER V KING AND COMMONS WE saw but little of the commons of the isle . 
At first we met them at the well , where they washed their linen and we drew water for the table . 
The combination was distasteful and , having a tyrant at command , we applied to the king and had the place enclosed in our tapu . 
It was one of the few favours which Tembinok' visibly boggled about granting , and it may be conceived how little popular it made the strangers . 
Many villagers passed us daily going afield but they fetched a wide circuit round our tapu , and seemed to avert their looks . 
At times we went ourselves into the village a strange place . 
In our walks abroad I have always supposed the islanders avoided us , perhaps from distaste , perhaps by order and those whom we met we took generally by surprise . 
in lukewarm mud , brown as their own skins . 
Other , but still rare , encounters occur to my memory . 
I was several times arrested by a tender sound in the bush of voices talking , soft as flutes and with quiet intonations . 
The beauty of the voice and the eye was all that remained to those vast dames but that of the voice was indeed exquisite . 
The state of this folk , of whom I saw so little , I can merely guess at . 
The king himself explains the situation with some art . 
'No I no pay them , he once said . 
They work for me ALL THE SAME BROTHERS . 
It is true there was a brother once in Arden ! But we prefer the shorter word . 
They bear every servile mark , levity like a child's , incurable idleness , incurious content . 
The insolence of the cook was a trait of his own not so his levity , which he shared with the innocent Uncle Parker . 
With equal unconcern both gambolled under the shadow of the gallows , and took liberties with death that might have surprised a careless student of man's nature . 
By terror you may drive men long , but not far . 
Here , in Apemama , they work at the constant and the instant peril of their lives and are plunged in a kind of lethargy of laziness . 
It is common to see two men carrying between them on a pole a single bucket of water . 
To make two bites of a cherry is good enough to make two burthens of a soldier's kit , for a distance of perhaps half a furlong , passes measure . 
Woman , being the less childish animal , is less relaxed by servile conditions . 
Even in the king's absence , even when they were alone , I have seen Apemama women work with constancy . 
But the outside to be hoped for in a man is that he may attack his task in little languid fits , and lounge between whiles . 
So I have seen a painter , with his pipe going , and a friend by the studio fireside . 
You might suppose the race to lack civility , even vitality , until you saw them in the dance . 
The time was not so slow , though it was slow for the islands but I have chosen rather to indicate the effect upon the hearer . 
Their music had a church like character from near at hand , and seemed to European ears more regular than the run of island music . 
Twice I have heard a discord regularly solved . 
From farther off , heard at Equator Town for instance , the measures rose and fell and crepitated like the barking of hounds in a distant kennel . 
The slaves are certainly not overworked children of ten do more without fatigue and the Apemama labourers have holidays , when the singing begins early in the afternoon . 
Three came in a boat from Kuria during our stay one was kept for the palace , one sent to us , one presented to the village . 
It is the habit of the islanders to cook the turtle in its carapace we had been promised the shells , and we asked a tapu on this foolish practice . 
The face of Tembinok' darkened and he answered nothing . 
that he was scrupulous of touching in the least degree the private life and habits of his slaves . 
So that even here , in full despotism , public opinion has weight even here , in the midst of slavery , freedom has a corner . 
Orderly , sober , and innocent , life flows in the isle from day to day as in a model plantation under a model planter . 
It is impossible to doubt the beneficence of that stern rule . 
The king , with his manly and plain bearing , stood out alone you might say he was the only Gilbert Islander in Apemama . 
Violence , so common in Butaritari , seems unknown . 
So are theft and drunkenness . 
I am assured the experiment has been made of leaving sovereigns on the beach before the village they lay there untouched . 
In all our time on the island I was but once asked for drink . 
He found me one day in the outskirts of the village , in a secluded place , hot and private , where the taro pits are deep and the plants high . 
Here he buttonholed me , and , looking about him like a conspirator , inquired if I had gin . 
I told him I had . 
Tom White was immediately overwhelmed with embarrassment and terror , besought me in the most moving terms not to betray him , and fled my neighbourhood . 
He had none of the cook's valour it was weeks before he dared to meet my eye and then only by the order of the king and on particular business . 
of to morrow for ourselves . 
Here was a people protected from all serious misfortune , relieved of all serious anxieties , and deprived of what we call our liberty . 
Did they like it ? and what was their sentiment toward the ruler ? The first question I could not of course ask , nor perhaps the natives answer . 
Even the second was delicate yet at last , and under charming and strange circumstances , I found my opportunity to put it and a man to reply . 
It must have been the sound of what I am pleased to call my music that attracted in my direction another wanderer of the night . 
I had already several times remarked , and long ago set down as the loveliest animal in Apemama . 
So it was with Te Kop . 
He led me to the ocean side and for an hour or two we sat smoking and talking on the resplendent sand and under the ineffable brightness of the moon . 
My friend showed himself very sensible of the beauty and amenity of the hour . 
'Good night ! Good wind ! he kept exclaiming , and as he said the words he seemed to hug myself . 
intended to be partly bestial . 
But there was nothing bestial in Te Kop only a childish pleasure in the moment . 
and looking about him like a man in fear of spies . 
The strange thing is that I should have beheld him no more . 
But Te Kop vanished in the bush for ever . 
My house , of course , was unapproachable but he knew where to find me on the ocean beach , where I went daily . 
I was the KAUPOI , the rich man my tobacco and trade were known to be endless he was sure of a present . 
I am at a loss how to explain his behaviour , unless it be supposed that he recalled with terror and regret a passage in our interview . 
Here it is 'The king , he good man ? I asked . 
'Suppose he like you , he good man , replied Te Kop 'no like , no good . 
That is one way of putting it , of course . 
Te Kop himself was probably no favourite , for he scarce appealed to my judgment as a type of industry . 
He was very wroth with me I think by all the old principles of human nature he was not very well pleased with his sovereign . 
It was the rich man he sought to waylay I think it must have been by the turn of a hair that it was not the king he waylaid instead . 
The case of the cook was heavy indeed to my conscience . 
These speculations were forced upon us by an incident which I am ashamed to betray . 
put into Apemama in a good hour for us , who had near exhausted our supplies . 
He came one day to lunch with us , and while the cloth was being laid fell asleep in his chair . 
His confusion , when he awoke and found he had been detected , was equalled by our uneasiness . 
And as we talked we were startled by a gun shot and a sudden , barbaric outcry . 
I believe we all changed colour but it was only the king firing at a dog and the chorus striking up in the Speak House . 
A day or two later I learned the king was very sick went down , diagnosed the case and took at once the highest medical degree by the exhibition of bicarbonate of soda . 
So ended the king's modest spree and our anxiety . 
On the face of things , I ought to say , loyalty appeared unshaken . 
When the schooner at last returned for us , after much experience of baffling winds , she brought a rumour that Tebureimoa had declared war on Apemama . 
War is what he wants , and here was his chance . 
all military adventures in the future here was the case arrived . 
And in all this bustle the temper of the people appeared excellent , an unwonted animation in every face , and even Uncle Parker burning with military zeal . 
Of course it was a false alarm . 
Tebureimoa had other fish to fry . 
The plenipotentiary had been placed under my protection and we solemnly saluted when we met . 
He proved an excellent fisherman , and caught bonito over the ship's side . 
He pulled a good oar , and made himself useful for a whole fiery afternoon , towing the becalmed EQUATOR off Mariki . 
He went to his post and did no good . 
He returned home again , having done no harm . 
O SI SIC OMNES ! CHAPTER VI THE KING OF APEMAMA DEVIL WORK THE ocean beach of Apemama was our daily resort . 
The coast is broken by shallow bays . 
The reef is detached , elevated , and includes a lagoon about knee deep , the unrestful spending basin of the surf . 
The beach is now of fine sand , now of broken coral . 
Man avoids the place even his footprints are uncommon but a great number of birds hover and pipe there fishing , and leave crooked tracks upon the sand . 
, is that of the breakers on the reef . 
On each projection of the coast , the bank of coral clinkers immediately above the beach has been levelled , and a pillar built , perhaps breast high . 
These are not sepulchral all the dead being buried on the inhabited side of the island , close to men's houses , and to their wells . 
I was told they were to protect the isle against inroads from the sea divine or diabolical martellos , probably sacred to Taburik , God of Thunder . 
The bay immediately opposite Equator Town , which we called Fu Bay , in honour of our cook , was thus fortified on either horn . 
It was well sheltered by the reef , the enclosed water clear and tranquil , the enclosing beach curved like a horseshoe , and both steep and broad . 
The path debouched about the midst of the re entrant angle , the woods stopping some distance inland . 
This was the king's Pray Place . 
When he prayed , what he prayed for , and to whom he addressed his supplications I could never learn . 
In the angle , by the mouth of the path , stood a deserted maniap' . 
Near by there had been a house before our coming , which was now transported and figured for the moment in Equator Town . 
It had been , and it would be again when we departed , the residence of the guardian and wizard of the spot Tamaiti . 
Here , in this lone place , within sound of the sea , he had his dwelling and uncanny duties . 
Whether Tamaiti had any guardianship of the Pray Place I never heard . 
But his own particular chapel stood farther back in the fringe of the wood . 
It was a tree of respectable growth . 
The whole had the appearance of a mid summer and sylvan Christmas tree AL FRESCO . 
The plaited palms were what we recognised . 
Our experience of Devil work at Apaiang had been as follows It chanced we were benighted at the house of Captain Tierney . 
My wife and I lodged with a Chinaman some half a mile away and thither Captain Reid and a native boy escorted us by torch light . 
On the way the torch went out , and we took shelter in a small and lonely Christian chapel to rekindle it . 
Stuck in the rafters of the chapel was a branch of knotted palm . 
'What is that ? I asked . 
'O , that's Devil work , said the Captain . 
'And what is Devil work ? I inquired . 
'If you like , I'll show you some when we get to Johnnie's , he replied . 
'Johnnie's' was a quaint little house upon the crest of the beach , raised some three feet on posts , approached by stairs part walled , part trellised . 
Trophies of advertisement photographs were hung up within for decoration . 
Hither was summoned an old witch , who looked the part to horror . 
Doubtless these half Christian folk were shocked , these half heathen folk alarmed . 
The next day dawned cloudless and breathless but I think Captain Reid placed a secret reliance on the sibyl , for the schooner was got ready for sea . 
Perhaps London lies beyond the horizon of the island gods . 
Tembinok' , in his first dealings , showed himself sternly averse from superstition and had not the EQUATOR delayed , we might have left the island and still supposed him an agnostic . 
It chanced one day , however , that he came to our maniap' , and found Mrs. Stevenson in the midst of a game of patience . 
Tembinok' must have drawn a long breath we were not so high and dry after all he need no longer dissemble , and he plunged at once into confessions . 
He made devil work every day , he told us , to know if ships were coming in and thereafter brought us regular reports of the results . 
It was surprising how regularly he was wrong but he always had an explanation ready . 
There had been some schooner in the offing out of view but either she was not bound for Apemama , or had changed her course , or lay becalmed . 
I used to regard the king with veneration as he thus publicly deceived himself . 
To the end Tembinok' spoke reluctantly of the island gods and their worship , and I learned but little . 
Taburik is the god of thunder , and deals in wind and weather . 
A while since there were wizards who could call him down in the form of lightning . 
'My patha he tell me he see you think he lie ? Tienti pronounced something like 'Chench , and identified by his majesty with the devil sends and removes bodily sickness . 
He is whistled for in the Paumotuan manner , and is said to appear but the king has never seen him . 
The doctors treat disease by the aid of Chench eclectic Tembinok' at the same time administering 'pain killer' from his medicine chest , so as to give the sufferer both chances . 
'I think mo' betta , observed his majesty , with more than his usual self approval . 
Apparently the gods are not jealous , and placidly enjoy both shrine and priest in common . 
It chanced , by great good luck , that even as we spoke of these affairs , I found myself threatened with a cold . 
They came in a body , all in their Sunday's best and hung with wreaths and shells , the insignia of the devil worker . 
Tamaiti took me in hand first , and led me , conversing agreeably , to the shores of Fu Bay . 
The FAMULUS climbed a tree for some green cocoa nuts . 
Tamaiti himself disappeared a while in the bush and returned with coco tinder , dry leaves , and a spray of waxberry . 
I tried vainly to lead him to the matter in hand . 
'Everybody make medicine , he said lightly . 
And when I asked him if he were himself a good practitioner 'No savvy , he replied , more lightly still . 
At length the leaves burst in a flame , which he continued to feed a thick , light smoke blew in my face , and the flames streamed against and scorched my clothes . 
So soon as the leaves were consumed the ashes were buried , the green spray was imbedded in the gravel , and the ceremony was at an end . 
A reader of the ARABIAN NIGHTS felt quite at home . 
Here was the suffumigation here was the muttering wizard here was the desert place to which Aladdin was decoyed by the false uncle . 
But they manage these things better in fiction . 
The effect was marred by the levity of the magician , entertaining his patient with small talk like an affable dentist , and by the incongruous presence of Mr. Osbourne with a camera . 
As for my cold , it was neither better nor worse . 
I was now handed over to Terutak' , the leading practitioner or medical baronet of Apemama . 
His place is on the lagoon side of the island , hard by the palace . 
The doctor and myself entered the sacred place alone the boxes and the mat were displaced and I was enthroned in their stead upon the stone , facing once more to the east . 
For a while the sorcerer remained unseen behind me , making passes in the air with a branch of palm . 
Then he struck lightly on the brim of my straw hat and this blow he continued to repeat at intervals , sometimes brushing instead my arm and shoulder . 
I have had people try to mesmerise me a dozen times , and never with the least result . 
My sinews fainted , my eyes closed , my brain hummed , with drowsiness . 
When I awoke my cold was gone . 
So I leave a matter that I do not understand . 
had been strangely whetted by the sacred boxes . 
They were of pandanus wood , oblong in shape , with an effect of pillaring along the sides like straw work , lightly fringed with hair or fibre and standing on four legs . 
The outside was neat as a toy the inside a mystery I was resolved to penetrate . 
But there was a lion in the path . 
we hit on a device . 
Captain Reid came forward in my stead , professed an unbridled passion for the boxes , and asked and obtained leave to bargain for them with the wizard . 
There was never a more absolute surprise . 
She came , she took , she vanished , we had not a guess whither and we remained , with foolish looks and laughter on the empty field . 
Such was the fit prologue of our memorable bargaining . 
Presently Terutak' came , bringing Tamaiti along with him , both smiling and we four squatted without the rail . 
unseen , and now sat , breathless and watchful , by her husband's side . 
Captain Reid announced , without preface or disguise , that I was come to purchase Terutak' , with sudden gravity , refused to sell . 
He was pressed he persisted . 
It was explained we only wanted one no matter , two were necessary for the healing of the sick . 
He was rallied , he was reasoned with in vain . 
He sat there , serious and still , and refused . 
All this was only a preliminary skirmish hitherto no sum of money had been mentioned but now the captain brought his great guns to bear . 
He named a pound , then two , then three . 
Out of the maniap's one person after another came to join the group , some with mere excitement , others with consternation in their faces . 
The pretty girl crept to my side it was then that surely with the most artless flattery she informed me of my likeness to her father . 
Tamaiti the infidel sat with hanging head and every mark of dejection . 
Terutak' streamed with sweat , his eye was glazed , his face wore a painful rictus , his chest heaved like that of one spent with running . 
The man must have been by nature covetous and I doubt if ever I saw moral agony more tragically displayed . 
His wife by his side passionately encouraged his resistance . 
And now came the charge of the old guard . 
The captain , making a skip , named the surprising figure of five pounds . 
At the word the maniap's were emptied . 
The king's sister flung down her cards and came to the front to listen , a cloud on her brow . 
The pretty girl beat her breast and cried with wearisome iteration that if the box were hers I should have it . 
Even Terutak' lost that image like immobility which he had hitherto maintained . 
He rocked on his mat , threw up his closed knees alternately , and struck himself on the breast after the manner of dancers . 
But he came gold out of the furnace and with what voice was left him continued to reject the bribe . 
And now came a timely interjection . 
Here was a sick child , and I sought , in the view of its parents , to remove the medicine box . 
was corrupting him to sacrilege . 
Here was a greedy man , torn in twain betwixt greed and conscience and I sat by and relished , and lustfully renewed his torments . 
AVE , CAESAR ! Smothered in a corner , dormant but not dead , we have all the one touch of nature an infant passion for the sand and blood of the arena . 
So I brought to an end my first and last experience of the joys of the millionaire , and departed amid silent awe . 
Of all the bystanders , none but the king's sister retained any memory of the gravity and danger of the thing in hand . 
Their eyes glowed , the girl beat her breast , in senseless animal excitement . 
Nothing was offered them they stood neither to gain nor to lose at the mere name and wind of these great sums Satan possessed them . 
Tembinok' , Rubam , and one of the Daily Papers him we used to call 'the Facetiae Column' laboured for a while of some idea , which was at last intelligibly delivered . 
I explained I merely wished to keep it in my 'outch' as a thing made in Apemama and these honest men were much relieved . 
Late the same evening , my wife , crossing the isle to windward , was aware of singing in the bush . 
But this was of a graver character , and seemed to proceed from the ground level . 
A passing toddy cutter told my wife that she was praying . 
Probably she did not so much pray as deprecate and perhaps even the ceremony was one of disenchantment . 
Before even we had finished dinner Chench had begun his journey , and one of the newspapers had already placed the box upon my table as the gift of Tembinok' . 
I was amazed by his reply . 
to pay for my present . 
Nothing shows the king in a more becoming light than the fact that I succeeded . 
He demurred at the principle he exclaimed , when he heard it , at the sum . 
'Plenty money ! cried he , with contemptuous displeasure . 
But his resistance was never serious and when he had blown off his ill humour 'A' right , said he . 
Armed with this permission , I made straight for the infirmary . 
The night was now come , cool , dark , and starry . 
On a mat hard by a clear fire of wood and coco shell , Terutak' lay beside his wife . 
their agitating scruples and I was bidden to sit by them and share the circulating pipe . 
It was a changed scene when I had managed to explain . 
I might now go home , leaving that fire lit family party gloating over their new millions , and consider my strange day . 
I had tried and rewarded the virtue of Terutak' . 
I had played the millionaire , had behaved abominably , and then in some degree repaired my thoughtlessness . 
And now I had my box , and could open it and look within . 
It contained a miniature sleeping mat and a white shell . 
Tamaiti , interrogated next day as to the shell , explained it was not exactly Chench , but a cell , or body , which he would at times inhabit . 
Asked why there was a sleeping mat , he retorted indignantly , 'Why have you mats ? And this was the sceptical Tamaiti ! But island scepticism is never deeper than the lips . 
CHAPTER VII THE KING OF APEMAMA THUS all things on the island , even the priests of the gods , obey the word of Tembinok' . 
but interfere in the cookery of a turtle . 
Nor is his delight only in the possession , but in the exercise . 
He rejoices in the crooked and violent paths of kingship like a strong man to run a race , or like an artist in his art . 
I never saw a man more patently in the right trade . 
It would be natural to suppose this monarchy inherited intact through generations . 
And so far from that , it is a thing of yesterday . 
I was already a boy at school while Apemama was yet republican , ruled by a noisy council of Old Men , and torn with incurable feuds . 
And Tembinok' is no Bourbon rather the son of a Napoleon . 
Of course he is well born . 
No man need aspire high in the isles of the Pacific unless his pedigree be long and in the upper regions mythical . 
And our king counts cousinship with most of the high families in the archipelago , and traces his descent to a shark and a heroic woman . 
Directed by an oracle , she swam beyond sight of land to meet her revolting paramour , and received at sea the seed of a predestined family . 
'I think lie , is the king's emphatic commentary yet he is proud of the legend . 
From this illustrious beginning the fortunes of the race must have declined and Tenkoruti , the grandfather of Tembinok' , was the chief of a village at the north end of the island . 
Kuria and Aranuka were yet independent Apemama itself the arena of devastating feuds . 
Through this perturbed period of history the figure of Tenkoruti stalks memorable . 
In war he was swift and bloody several towns fell to his spear , and the inhabitants were butchered to a man . 
In civil life this arrogance was unheard of . 
When the council of Old Men was summoned , he went to the Speak House , delivered his mind , and left without waiting to be answered . 
Wisdom had spoken let others opine according to their folly . 
He was feared and hated , and this was his pleasure . 
He was no poet he cared not for arts or knowledge . 
'My gran'patha one thing savvy , savvy pight , observed the king . 
In some lull of their own disputes the Old Men of Apemama adventured on the conquest of Apemama and this unlicked Caius Marcius was elected general of the united troops . 
Success attended him the islands were reduced , and Tenkoruti returned to his own government , glorious and detested . 
He died about , in the seventieth year of his age and the full odour of unpopularity . 
He was tall and lean , says his grandson , looked extremely old , and 'walked all the same young man . 
The same observer gave me a significant detail . 
The survivors of that rough epoch were all defaced with spearmarks there was none on the body of this skilful fighter . 
'I see old man , no got a spear , said the king . 
Tenkoruti left two sons , Tembaitake and Tembinatake . 
Like Tenkoruti , he was tall and lean and a swift talker a rare trait in the islands . 
But these were avocations , and the man's trade was war . 
'When my uncle go make wa' , he laugh , said Tembinok' . 
He made his brother sovereign , he left his nephew absolute . 
'My uncle make all smooth , said Tembinok' . 
'I mo' king than my patha I got power , he said , with formidable relish . 
Such is the portrait of the uncle drawn by the nephew . 
the pleasing exercise of an imagination more than sailorly . 
'You will sit down , and smoke a pipe , and wash , and eat , and sleep , replied the chief , 'and to morrow you will go again . 
, and the chief himself prayed with eloquence and seeming sincerity . 
All evening A. sat and admired the man by the firelight . 
He was six feet high , lean , with the appearance of many years , and an extraordinary air of breeding and command . 
'He looked like a man who would kill you laughing , said A. , in singular echo of one of the king's expressions . 
And again 'I had been reading the Musketeer books , and he reminded me of Aramis . 
Such is the portrait of Tembinatake , drawn by an expert romancer . 
We had heard many tales of 'my patha' never a word of my uncle till two days before we left . 
As the time approached for our departure Tembinok' became greatly changed a softer , a more melancholy , and , in particular , a more confidential man appeared in his stead . 
We showed fireworks one evening on the terrace . 
It was a heavy business the sense of separation was in all our minds , and the talk languished . 
The king was specially affected , sat disconsolate on his mat , and often sighed . 
Of a sudden one of the wives stepped forth from a cluster , came and kissed him in silence , and silently went again . 
It was just such a caress as we might give to a disconsolate child , and the king received it with a child's simplicity . 
Presently after we said good night and withdrew but Tembinok' detained Mr. Osbourne , patting the mat by his side and saying 'Sit down . 
I feel bad , I like talk . 
Osbourne sat down by him . 
'You like some beer ? said he and one of the wives produced a bottle . 
The king did not partake , but sat sighing and smoking a meerschaum pipe . 
'I very sorry you go , he said at last . 
'Miss Stlevens he good man , woman he good man , boy he good man all good man . 
Woman he smart all the same man . 
'he good woman , no very smart . 
I think Miss Stlevens he is chiep all the same cap'n man o wa' . 
I think Miss Stlevens he rich man all the same me . 
My patha he go , my uncle he go , my cutcheons he go , Miss Stlevens he go all go . 
You no see king cry before . 
King all the same man feel bad , he cry . 
In the morning it was the common topic in the village that the king had wept . 
To me he said 'Last night I no can 'peak too much here , laying his hand upon his bosom . 
'Now you go away all the same my pamily . 
My brothers , my uncle go away . 
This was said with a dejection almost passionate . 
And it was the first time I had heard him name his uncle , or indeed employ the word . 
The same day he sent me a present of two corselets , made in the island fashion of plaited fibre , heavy and strong . 
One had been worn by Tenkoruti , one by Tembaitake and the gift being gratefully received , he sent me , on the return of his messengers , a third that of Tembinatake . 
My curiosity was roused I begged for information as to the three wearers and the king entered with gusto into the details already given . 
Here was a strange thing , that he should have talked so much of his family , and not once mentioned that relative of whom he was plainly the most proud . 
A confusion might be natural enough among islanders , who call all the sons of their grandfather by the common name of father . 
But this was not the case with Tembinok' . 
The more I heard and the more I considered , the more this mystery of Tembinok's behaviour puzzled and attracted me . 
And the explanation , when it came , was one to strike the imagination of a dramatist . 
One , detected in private trading , was banished , then forgiven , lives to this day in the island , and is the father of the heir apparent , Paul . 
The other fell beyond forgiveness . 
I have heard it was a love affair with one of the king's wives , and the thing is highly possible in that romantic archipelago . 
War was attempted to be levied but Tembinok' was too swift for the rebels , and the guilty brother escaped in a canoe . 
He did not go alone . 
Tembinatake had a hand in the rebellion , and the man who had gained a kingdom for a weakling brother was banished by that brother's son . 
The fugitives came to shore in other islands , but Tembinok' remains to this day ignorant of their fate . 
And now a moment for conjecture . 
Tembinok' confused habitually , not only the attributes and merits of his father and his uncle , but their diverse personal appearance . 
The king took us on board in his own gig , dressed for the occasion in the naval uniform . 
He had little to say , he refused refreshments , shook us briefly by the hand , and went ashore again . 
That night the palm tops of Apemama had dipped behind the sea , and the schooner sailed solitary under the stars . 
