And then I was left alone with my ship , anchored at the head of the Gulf of Siam . 
She floated at the starting point of a long journey , very still in an immense stillness , the shadows of her spars flung far to the eastward by the setting sun . 
At that moment I was alone on her decks . 
But , with all that multitude of celestial bodies staring down at one , the comfort of quiet communion with her was gone for good . 
I found my two officers waiting for me near the supper table , in the lighted cuddy . 
I looked down at once . 
It was not my part to encourage sneering on board my ship . 
It must be said , too , that I knew very little of my officers . 
In consequence of certain events of no particular significance , except to myself , I had been appointed to the command only a fortnight before . 
Neither did I know much of the hands forward . 
All these people had been together for eighteen months or so , and my position was that of the only stranger on board . 
I mention this because it has some bearing on what is to follow . 
But what I felt most was my being a stranger to the ship and if all the truth must be told , I was somewhat of a stranger to myself . 
, and untried as yet by a position of the fullest responsibility , I was willing to take the adequacy of the others for granted . 
Meantime the chief mate , with an almost visible effect of collaboration on the part of his round eyes and frightful whiskers , was trying to evolve a theory of the anchored ship . 
His dominant trait was to take all things into earnest consideration . 
He was of a painstaking turn of mind . 
, and how on earth it managed to drown itself in the inkwell of his writing desk had exercised him infinitely . 
The ship within the islands was much more easily accounted for and just as we were about to rise from table he made his pronouncement . 
She was , he doubted not , a ship from home lately arrived . 
Probably she drew too much water to cross the bar except at the top of spring tides . 
Therefore she went into that natural harbor to wait for a few days in preference to remaining in an open roadstead . 
That's so , confirmed the second mate , suddenly , in his slightly hoarse voice . 
She draws over twenty feet . 
She's the Liverpool ship Sephora with a cargo of coal . 
Hundred and twenty three days from Cardiff . 
We looked at him in surprise . 
The tugboat skipper told me when he came on board for your letters , sir , explained the young man . 
He expects to take her up the river the day after tomorrow . 
After thus overwhelming us with the extent of his information he slipped out of the cabin . 
The mate observed regretfully that he could not account for that young fellow's whims . 
What prevented him telling us all about it at once , he wanted to know . 
I detained him as he was making a move . 
For the last two days the crew had had plenty of hard work , and the night before they had very little sleep . 
I felt painfully that I a stranger was doing something unusual when I directed him to let all hands turn in without setting an anchor watch . 
I proposed to keep on deck myself till one o'clock or thereabouts . 
I would get the second mate to relieve me at that hour . 
He will turn out the cook and the steward at four , I concluded , and then give you a call . 
Of course at the slightest sign of any sort of wind we'll have the hands up and make a start at once . 
Outside the cuddy he put his head in the second mate's door to inform him of my unheard of caprice to take a five hours' anchor watch on myself . 
I heard the other raise his voice incredulously What ? The Captain himself ? Then a few more murmurs , a door closed , then another . 
A few moments later I went on deck . 
Fast alongside a wharf , littered like any ship in port with a tangle of unrelated things , invaded by unrelated shore people , I had hardly seen her yet properly . 
Now , as she lay cleared for sea , the stretch of her main deck seemed to me very find under the stars . 
Very fine , very roomy for her size , and very inviting . 
I descended the poop and paced the waist , my mind picturing to myself the coming passage through the Malay Archipelago , down the Indian Ocean , and up the Atlantic . 
All its phases were familiar enough to me , every characteristic , all the alternatives which were likely to face me on the high seas everything ! . 
except the novel responsibility of command . 
Arrived at that comforting conclusion , I bethought myself of a cigar and went below to get it . 
All was still down there . 
Everybody at the after end of the ship was sleeping profoundly . 
Only as I passed the door of the forecastle , I heard a deep , quiet , trustful sigh of some sleeper inside . 
The riding light in the forerigging burned with a clear , untroubled , as if symbolic , flame , confident and bright in the mysterious shades of the night . 
I became annoyed at this , for exactitude in some small matters is the very soul of discipline . 
Then I reflected that I had myself peremptorily dismissed my officers from duty , and by my own act had prevented the anchor watch being formally set and things properly attended to . 
I asked myself whether it was wise ever to interfere with the established routine of duties even from the kindest of motives . 
My action might have made me appear eccentric . 
Goodness only knew how that absurdly whiskered mate would account for my conduct , and what the whole ship thought of that informality of their new captain . 
I was vexed with myself . 
Not from compunction certainly , but , as it were mechanically , I proceeded to get the ladder in myself . 
I was so astounded by the immovableness of that ladder that I remained stockstill , trying to account for it to myself like that imbecile mate of mine . 
In the end , of course , I put my head over the rail . 
The side of the ship made an opaque belt of shadow on the darkling glassy shimmer of the sea . 
But I saw at once something elongated and pale floating very close to the ladder . 
With a gasp I saw revealed to my stare a pair of feet , the long legs , a broad livid back immersed right up to the neck in a greenish cadaverous glow . 
One hand , awash , clutched the bottom rung of the ladder . 
He was complete but for the head . 
A headless corpse ! The cigar dropped out of my gaping mouth with a tiny plop and a short hiss quite audible in the absolute stillness of all things under heaven . 
At that I suppose he raised up his face , a dimly pale oval in the shadow of the ship's side . 
But even then I could only barely make out down there the shape of his black haired head . 
However , it was enough for the horrid , frost bound sensation which had gripped me about the chest to pass off . 
The moment of vain exclamations was past , too . 
I only climbed on the spare spar and leaned over the rail as far as I could , to bring my eyes nearer to that mystery floating alongside . 
As he hung by the ladder , like a resting swimmer , the sea lightning played about his limbs at every stir and he appeared in it ghastly , silvery , fishlike . 
He remained as mute as a fish , too . 
He made no motion to get out of the water , either . 
It was inconceivable that he should not attempt to come on board , and strangely troubling to suspect that perhaps he did not want to . 
And my first words were prompted by just that troubled incertitude . 
What's the matter ? I asked in my ordinary tone , speaking down to the face upturned exactly under mine . 
Cramp , it answered , no louder . 
Then slightly anxious , I say , no need to call anyone . 
I was not going to , I said . 
Are you alone on deck ? Yes . 
I had somehow the impression that he was on the point of letting go the ladder to swim away beyond my ken mysterious as he came . 
But , for the moment , this being appearing as if he had risen from the bottom of the sea wanted only to know the time . 
And he , down there , tentatively I suppose your captain's turned in ? I am sure he isn't , I said . 
He seemed to struggle with himself , for I heard something like the low , bitter murmur of doubt . 
What's the good ? His next words came out with a hesitating effort . 
Look here , my man . 
Could you call him out quietly ? I thought the time Had come to declare myself . 
I heard a By Jove ! whispered at the level of the water . 
The phosphorescence flashed in the swirl of the water all about his limbs , his other hand seized the ladder . 
The voice was calm and resolute . 
The self possession of that man had somehow induced a corresponding state in myself . 
It was very quietly that I remarked You must be a good swimmer . 
I've been in the water practically since nine o'clock . 
The question for me now is whether I am to let go this ladder and go on swimming till I sink from exhaustion , or to come on board here . 
I felt this was no mere formula of desperate speech , but a real alternative in the view of a strong soul . 
I should have gathered from this that he was young indeed , it is only the young who are ever confronted by such clear issues . 
But at the time it was pure intuition on my part . 
A mysterious communication was established already between us two in the face of that silent , darkened tropical sea . 
I was young , too young enough to make no comment . 
The man in the water began suddenly to climb up the ladder , and I hastened away from the rail to fetch some clothes . 
Before entering the cabin I stood still , listening in the lobby at the foot of the stairs . 
A faint snore came through the closed door of the chief mate's room . 
The second mate's door was on the hook , but the darkness in there was absolutely soundless . 
He , too , was young and could sleep like a stone . 
Remained the steward , but he was not likely to wake up before he was called . 
Together we moved right aft , barefooted , silent . 
What is it ? I asked in a deadened voice , taking the lighted lamp out of the binnacle , and raising it to his face . 
His expression was concentrated , meditative , under the inspecting light of the lamp I held up to his face such as a man thinking hard in solitude might wear . 
My sleeping suit was just right for his size . 
A well knit young fellow of twenty five at most . 
He caught his lower lip with the edge of white , even teeth . 
Yes , I said , replacing the lamp in the binnacle . 
The warm , heavy tropical night closed upon his head again . 
There's a ship over there , he murmured . 
Did you know of us ? Hadn't the slightest idea . 
I am the mate of her He paused and corrected himself . 
I should say I WAS . 
Aha ! Something wrong ? Yes . 
What do you mean ? Just now ? No , on the passage . 
When I say a man Fit of temper , I suggested , confidently . 
The shadowy , dark head , like mine , seemed to nod imperceptibly above the ghostly gray of my sleeping suit . 
It was , in the night , as though I had been faced by my own reflection in the depths of a somber and immense mirror . 
A pretty thing to have to own up to for a Conway boy , murmured my double , distinctly . 
You're a Conway boy ? I am , he said , as if startled . 
Perhaps you too It was so but being a couple of years older I had left before he joined . 
After a quick interchange of dates a silence fell and I thought suddenly of my absurd mate with his terrific whiskers and the Bless my soul you don't say so type of intellect . 
My double gave me an inkling of his thoughts by saying My father's a parson in Norfolk . 
Do you see me before a judge and jury on that charge ? For myself I can't see the necessity . 
There are fellows that an angel from heaven And I am not that . 
He was one of those creatures that are just simmering all the time with a silly sort of wickedness . 
Miserable devils that have no business to live at all . 
He wouldn't do his duty and wouldn't let anybody else do theirs . 
But what's the good of talking ! You know well enough the sort of ill conditioned snarling cur He appealed to me as if our experiences had been as identical as our clothes . 
And I knew well enough the pestiferous danger of such a character where there are no means of legal repression . 
And I knew well enough also that my double there was no homicidal ruffian . 
I did not think of asking him for details , and he told me the story roughly in brusque , disconnected sentences . 
I saw it all going on as though I were myself inside that other sleeping suit . 
It happened while we were setting a reefed foresail , at dusk . 
Reefed foresail ! You understand the sort of weather . 
The only sail we had left to keep the ship running so you may guess what it had been like for days . 
Anxious sort of job , that . 
He gave me some of his cursed insolence at the sheet . 
I tell you I was overdone with this terrific weather that seemed to have no end to it . 
Terrific , I tell you and a deep ship . 
I believe the fellow himself was half crazed with funk . 
It was no time for gentlemanly reproof , so I turned round and felled him like an ox . 
He up and at me . 
We closed just as an awful sea made for the ship . 
It was a miracle that they found us , jammed together behind the forebitts . 
It's clear that I meant business , because I was holding him by the throat still when they picked us up . 
He was black in the face . 
It was too much for them . 
It seems they rushed us aft together , gripped as we were , screaming Murder ! like a lot of lunatics , and broke into the cuddy . 
And the ship running for her life , touch and go all the time , any minute her last in a sea fit to turn your hair gray only a looking at it . 
I understand that the skipper , too , started raving like the rest of them . 
I wonder they didn't fling me overboard after getting the carcass of their precious shipmate out of my fingers . 
They had rather a job to separate us , I've been told . 
A sufficiently fierce story to make an old judge and a respectable jury sit up a bit . 
The first thing I heard when I came to myself was the maddening howling of that endless gale , and on that the voice of the old man . 
He was hanging on to my bunk , staring into my face out of his sou'wester . 
Mr. Leggatt , you have killed a man . 
You can act no longer as chief mate of this ship . 
His care to subdue his voice made it sound monotonous . 
He rested a hand on the end of the skylight to steady himself with , and all that time did not stir a limb , so far as I could see . 
Nice little tale for a quiet tea party , he concluded in the same tone . 
One of my hands , too , rested on the end of the skylight neither did I stir a limb , so far as I knew . 
We stood less than a foot from each other . 
I became very much concerned to prevent anything of the sort . 
I heard the other's soothing undertone . 
My father's a parson in Norfolk , it said . 
Evidently he had forgotten he had told me this important fact before . 
Truly a nice little tale . 
You had better slip down into my stateroom now , I said , moving off stealthily . 
Not much sign of any wind yet , I remarked when he approached . 
Not much , he assented , sleepily , in his hoarse voice , with just enough deference , no more , and barely suppressing a yawn . 
Well , that's all you have to look out for . 
You have got your orders . 
I paced a turn or two on the poop and saw him take up his position face forward with his elbow in the ratlines of the mizzen rigging before I went below . 
The mate's faint snoring was still going on peacefully . 
Two bunches of bananas hung from the beam symmetrically , one on each side of the rudder casing . 
It must be explained here that my cabin had the form of the capital letter L , the door being within the angle and opening into the short part of the letter . 
A couch was to the left , the bed place to the right my writing desk and the chronometers' table faced the door . 
But anyone opening it , unless he stepped right inside , had no view of what I call the long part of the letter . 
It contained some lockers surmounted by a bookcase and a few clothes , a thick jacket or two , caps , oilskin coat , and such like , hung on hooks . 
There was at the bottom of that part a door opening into my bathroom , which could be entered also directly from the saloon . 
But that way was never used . 
The mysterious arrival had discovered the advantage of this particular shape . 
I heard somebody moving about , and went in there at once , he whispered . 
I , too , spoke under my breath . 
Nobody is likely to come in here without knocking and getting permission . 
His face was thin and the sunburn faded , as though he had been ill . 
He had been , I heard presently , kept under arrest in his cabin for nearly seven weeks . 
But there was nothing sickly in his eyes or in his expression . 
When we sighted Java Head I had had time to think all those matters out several times over . 
I had six weeks of doing nothing else , and with only an hour or so every evening for a tramp on the quarter deck . 
He whispered , his arms folded on the side of my bed place , staring through the open port . 
And I could imagine perfectly the manner of this thinking out a stubborn if not a steadfast operation something of which I should have been perfectly incapable . 
So I asked to speak to the old man . 
He always seemed very sick when he came to see me as if he could not look me in the face . 
You know , that foresail saved the ship . 
She was too deep to have run long under bare poles . 
And it was I that managed to set it for him . 
There would be the Java coast within two or three miles , off Angier Point . 
I've had a prize for swimming my second year in the Conway . 
I can believe it , I breathed out . 
God only knows why they locked me in every night . 
To see some of their faces you'd have thought they were afraid I'd go about at night strangling people . 
Am I a murdering brute ? Do I look it ? By Jove ! If I had been he wouldn't have trusted himself like that into my room . 
You'll say I might have chucked him aside and bolted out , there and then it was dark already . 
And for the same reason I wouldn't think of trying to smash the door . 
There would have been a rush to stop me at the noise , and I did not mean to get into a confounded scrimmage . 
Somebody else might have got killed for I would not have broken out only to get chucked back , and I did not want any more of that work . 
He refused , looking more sick than ever . 
No chief mate ever made more than one voyage in the Sephora , you know . 
Those two old chaps ran the ship . 
of what the law would do to him of his wife , perhaps . 
Oh , yes ! she's on board . 
Though I don't think she would have meddled . 
She would have been only too glad to have me out of the ship in any way . 
The brand of Cain' business , don't you see . 
I was ready enough to go off wandering on the face of the earth and that was price enough to pay for an Abel of that sort . 
Anyhow , he wouldn't listen to me . 
'This thing must take its course . 
I represent the law here . 
He was shaking like a leaf . 
So you won't ? No ! 'Then I hope you will be able to sleep on that , I said , and turned my back on him . 
I wonder that you can , cries he , and locks the door . 
Well after that , I couldn't . 
That was three weeks ago . 
We have had a slow passage through the Java Sea drifted about Carimata for ten days . 
When we anchored here they thought , I suppose , it was all right . 
is the ship's destination the consul would soon set about catching me and there would have been no object in bolding to these islets there . 
I don't suppose there's a drop of water on them . 
I don't know how it was , but tonight that steward , after bringing me my supper , went out to let me eat it , and left the door unlocked . 
And I ate it all there was , too . 
After I had finished I strolled out on the quarter deck . 
I don't know that I meant to do anything . 
A breath of fresh air was all I wanted , I believe . 
Then a sudden temptation came over me . 
I kicked off my slippers and was in the water before I had made up my mind fairly . 
Somebody heard the splash and they raised an awful hullabaloo . 
He's gone ! Lower the boats ! He's committed suicide ! No , he's swimming . 
It's not so easy for a swimmer like me to commit suicide by drowning . 
I landed on the nearest islet before the boat left the ship's side . 
I heard them pulling about in the dark , hailing , and so on , but after a bit they gave up . 
Everything quieted down and the anchorage became still as death . 
I sat down on a stone and began to think . 
I felt certain they would start searching for me at daylight . 
That was suicide enough for me . 
Let them think what they liked , but I didn't mean to drown myself . 
I meant to swim till I sank but that's not the same thing . 
I struck out for another of these little islands , and it was from that one that I first saw your riding light . 
I went on easily , and on the way I came upon a flat rock a foot or two above water . 
In the daytime , I dare say , you might make it out with a glass from your poop . 
I scrambled up on it and rested myself for a bit . 
Then I made another start . 
That last spell must have been over a mile . 
His whisper was getting fainter and fainter , and all the time he stared straight out through the porthole , in which there was not even a star to be seen . 
I had not interrupted him . 
There was something that made comment impossible in his narrative , or perhaps in himself a sort of feeling , a quality , which I can't find a name for . 
And when he ceased , all I found was a futile whisper So you swam for our light ? Yes straight for it . 
It was something to swim for . 
I couldn't see any stars low down because the coast was in the way , and I couldn't see the land , either . 
The water was like glass . 
Then your ladder Why didn't you hail the ship ? I asked , a little louder . 
He touched my shoulder lightly . 
Lazy footsteps came right over our heads and stopped . 
The second mate had crossed from the other side of the poop and might have been hanging over the rail for all we knew . 
He couldn't hear us talking could he ? My double breathed into my very ear , anxiously . 
His anxiety was in answer , a sufficient answer , to the question I had put to him . 
An answer containing all the difficulty of that situation . 
I closed the porthole quietly , to make sure . 
A louder word might have been overheard . 
Who's that ? he whispered then . 
But I don't know much more of the fellow than you do . 
And I told him a little about myself . 
I had been appointed to take charge while I least expected anything of the sort , not quite a fortnight ago . 
I didn't know either the ship or the people . 
Hadn't had the time in port to look about me or size anybody up . 
And as to the crew , all they knew was that I was appointed to take the ship home . 
For the rest , I was almost as much of a stranger on board as himself , I said . 
And at the moment I felt it most acutely . 
I felt that it would take very little to make me a suspect person in the eyes of the ship's company . 
He had turned about meantime and we , the two strangers in the ship , faced each other in identical attitudes . 
Your ladder he murmured , after a silence . 
Who'd have thought of finding a ladder hanging over at night in a ship anchored out here ! I felt just then a very unpleasant faintness . 
After the life I've been leading for nine weeks , anybody would have got out of condition . 
I wasn't capable of swimming round as far as your rudder chains . 
And , lo and behold ! there was a ladder to get hold of . 
I didn't mind being looked at . 
And then you speaking to me so quietly as if you had expected me made me hold on a little longer . 
It had been a confounded lonely time I don't mean while swimming . 
I was glad to talk a little to somebody that didn't belong to the Sephora . 
As to asking for the captain , that was a mere impulse . 
It could have been no use , with all the ship knowing about me and the other people pretty certain to be round here in the morning . 
I don't know I wanted to be seen , to talk with somebody , before I went on . 
I don't know what I would have said . 
Fine night , isn't it ? or something of the sort . 
Do you think they will be round here presently ? I asked with some incredulity . 
Quite likely , he said , faintly . 
He looked extremely haggard all of a sudden . 
His head rolled on his shoulders . 
Meantime get into that bed , I whispered . 
It was a rather high bed place with a set of drawers underneath . 
This amazing swimmer really needed the lift I gave him by seizing his leg . 
He tumbled in , rolled over on his back , and flung one arm across his eyes . 
And then , with his face nearly hidden , he must have looked exactly as I used to look in that bed . 
I gazed upon my other self for a while before drawing across carefully the two green serge curtains which ran on a brass rod . 
I would do it in a moment . 
I was extremely tired , in a peculiarly intimate way , by the strain of stealthiness , by the effort of whispering and the general secrecy of this excitement . 
It was three o'clock by now and I had been on my feet since nine , but I was not sleepy I could not have gone to sleep . 
It was a relief to discover suddenly that it was not in my head at all , but on the outside of the door . 
Before I could collect myself the words Come in were out of my mouth , and the steward entered with a tray , bringing in my morning coffee . 
I had slept , after all , and I was so frightened that I shouted , This way ! I am here , steward , as though he had been miles away . 
He put down the tray on the table next the couch and only then said , very quietly , I can see you are here , sir . 
I felt him give me a keen look , but I dared not meet his eyes just then . 
He must have wondered why I had drawn the curtains of my bed before going to sleep on the couch . 
He went out , hooking the door open as usual . 
I heard the crew washing decks above me . 
I knew I would have been told at once if there had been any wind . 
Calm , I thought , and I was doubly vexed . 
Indeed , I felt dual more than ever . 
The steward reappeared suddenly in the doorway . 
I jumped up from the couch so quickly that he gave a start . 
What do you want here ? Close your port , sir they are washing decks . 
It is closed , I said , reddening . 
But he did not move from the doorway and returned my stare in an extraordinary , equivocal manner for a time . 
Then I unhooked and closed the door and even pushed the bolt . 
This sort of thing could not go on very long . 
The cabin was as hot as an oven , too . 
I reached over him and opened the port . 
I must show myself on deck , I reflected . 
There was a sort of curiosity in his eye that I did not like . 
I don't know whether the steward had told them that I was queer only , or downright drunk , but I know the man meant to have a good look at me . 
I watched him coming with a smile which , as he got into point blank range , took effect and froze his very whiskers . 
I did not give him time to open his lips . 
Square the yards by lifts and braces before the hands go to breakfast . 
It was the first particular order I had given on board that ship and I stayed on deck to see it executed , too . 
I had felt the need of asserting myself without loss of time . 
It was very much like being mad , only it was worse because one was aware of it . 
I had to shake him for a solid minute , but when at last he opened his eyes it was in the full possession of his senses , with an inquiring look . 
All's well so far , I whispered . 
Now you must vanish into the bathroom . 
As my tone admitted of no excuses , he said , Yes , sir , and ran off to fetch his dustpan and brushes . 
When I left him there to go back to my room the steward was finishing dusting . 
I sent for the mate and engaged him in some insignificant conversation . 
It was , as it were , trifling with the terrific character of his whiskers but my object was to give him an opportunity for a good look at my cabin . 
And then I could at last shut , with a clear conscience , the door of my stateroom and get my double back into the recessed part . 
There was nothing else for it . 
He had to sit still on a small folding stool , half smothered by the heavy coats hanging there . 
Such was my scheme for keeping my second self invisible . 
Nothing better could be contrived under the circumstances . 
And there we sat I at my writing desk ready to appear busy with some papers , he behind me out of sight of the door . 
It would not have been prudent to talk in daytime and I could not have stood the excitement of that queer sense of whispering to myself . 
Anybody would have taken him for me . 
I was fascinated by it myself . 
Every moment I had to glance over my shoulder . 
I was looking at him when a voice outside the door said Beg pardon , sir . 
But he did not raise his bowed head . 
Should I whisper something to him ? But what ? His immobility seemed to have been never disturbed . 
What could I tell him he did not know already ? . 
Finally I went on deck . 
He was not exactly a showy figure his shoulders were high , his stature but middling one leg slightly more bandy than the other . 
He shook hands , looking vaguely around . 
A spiritless tenacity was his main characteristic , I judged . 
I behaved with a politeness which seemed to disconcert him . 
, his ship's name , and a few other particulars of that sort , in the manner of a criminal making a reluctant and doleful confession . 
He had had terrible weather on the passage out terrible terrible wife aboard , too . 
By this time we were seated in the cabin and the steward brought in a tray with a bottle and glasses . 
Thanks ! No. Never took liquor . 
Would have some water , though . 
Ever since daylight had been exploring the islands round his ship . 
What was that for fun ? I asked , with an appearance of polite interest . 
Such a young man , too ! he nodded , keeping his smeary blue , unintelligent eyes fastened upon me . 
What was the cause of it some disease ? he inquired , without the least sympathy and as if he thought that , if so , I'd got no more than I deserved . 
Yes disease , I admitted in a cheerful tone which seemed to shock him . 
But my point was gained , because he had to raise his voice to give me his tale . 
It is not worth while to record his version . 
What would you think of such a thing happening on board your own ship ? I've had the Sephora for these fifteen years . 
I am a well known shipmaster . 
There he was on the other side of the bulkhead , four or five feet from us , no more , as we sat in the saloon . 
I have been at sea now , man and boy , for seven and thirty years , and I've never heard of such a thing happening in an English ship . 
And that it should be my ship . 
Wife on board , too . 
I was hardly listening to him . 
Good God ! he uttered , impressively , fixing his smeary blue eyes on me . 
The sea ! No man killed by the sea ever looked like that . 
He seemed positively scandalized at my suggestion . 
After scoring over my calmness in this graphic way he nodded wisely . 
If I had seen the sight , he assured me , I would never forget it as long as I lived . 
The weather was too bad to give the corpse a proper sea burial . 
That reefed foresail saved you , I threw in . 
Under God it did , he exclaimed fervently . 
It was by a special mercy , I firmly believe , that it stood some of those hurricane squalls . 
It was the setting of that sail which I began . 
God's own hand in it , he interrupted me . 
Nothing less could have done it . 
I don't mind telling you that I hardly dared give the order . 
It seemed impossible that we could touch anything without losing it , and then our last hope would have been gone . 
The terror of that gale was on him yet . 
Seven and thirty virtuous years at sea , of which over twenty of immaculate command , and the last fifteen in the Sephora , seemed to have laid him under some pitiless obligation . 
And you know , he went on , groping shame facedly amongst his feelings , I did not engage that young fellow . 
His people had some interest with my owners . 
I was in a way forced to take him on . 
He looked very smart , very gentlemanly , and all that . 
But do you know I never liked him , somehow . 
I am a plain man . 
You see , he wasn't exactly the sort for the chief mate of a ship like the Sephora . 
I had no doubt of it in my mind . 
Not at all the style of man . 
You understand , he insisted , superfluously , looking hard at me . 
He seemed at a loss for a while . 
I suppose I must report a suicide . 
Beg pardon ? Suicide ! That's what I'll have to write to my owners directly I get in . 
Unless you manage to recover him before tomorrow , I assented , dispassionately . 
He mumbled something which I really did not catch , and I turned my ear to him in a puzzled manner . 
He fairly bawled The land I say , the mainland is at least seven miles off my anchorage . 
My lack of excitement , of curiosity , of surprise , of any sort of pronounced interest , began to arouse his distrust . 
But except for the felicitous pretense of deafness I had not tried to pretend anything . 
I had felt utterly incapable of playing the part of ignorance properly , and therefore was afraid to try . 
It is also certain that he had brought some ready made suspicions with him , and that he viewed my politeness as a strange and unnatural phenomenon . 
And yet how else could I have received him ? Not heartily ! That was impossible for psychological reasons , which I need not state here . 
My only object was to keep off his inquiries . 
Surlily ? Yes , but surliness might have provoked a point blank question . 
From its novelty to him and from its nature , punctilious courtesy was the manner best calculated to restrain the man . 
But there was the danger of his breaking through my defense bluntly . 
I could not , I think , have met him by a direct lie , also for psychological reasons . 
However that might have been , the silence was not very prolonged . 
He took another oblique step . 
I reckon I had no more than a two mile pull to your ship . 
And quite enough , too , in this awful heat , I said . 
Another pause full of mistrust followed . 
Necessity , they say , is mother of invention , but fear , too , is not barren of ingenious suggestions . 
And I was afraid he would ask me point blank for news of my other self . 
Nice little saloon , isn't it ? I remarked , as if noticing for the first time the way his eyes roamed from one closed door to the other . 
And very well fitted out , too . 
Here , for instance , I continued , reaching over the back of my seat negligently and flinging the door open , is my bathroom . 
He made an eager movement , but hardly gave it a glance . 
I got up , shut the door of the bathroom , and invited him to have a look round , as if I were very proud of my accomodation . 
He had to rise and be shown round , but he went through the business without any raptures whatever . 
He followed me in and gazed around . 
My intelligent double had vanished . 
Very convenient isn't it ? Very nice . 
He didn't finish and went out brusquely as if to escape from some unrighteous wiles of mine . 
But it was not to be . 
I had been too frightened not to feel vengeful I felt I had him on the run , and I meant to keep him on the run . 
My polite insistence must have had something menacing in it , because he gave in suddenly . 
When at last I showed him out on the quarter deck he drew a long , spiritless sigh , and mumbled dismally that he must really be going back to his ship now . 
I desired my mate , who had joined us , to see to the captain's boat . 
I escorted my visitor to the gangway ceremoniously , and nearly overdid it . 
He was a tenacious beast . 
On the very ladder he lingered , and in that unique , guiltily conscientious manner of sticking to the point I say . 
you don't think that I covered his voice loudly Certainly not . 
I had an idea of what he meant to say , and just saved myself by the privilege of defective hearing . 
He was too shaken generally to insist , but my mate , close witness of that parting , looked mystified and his face took on a thoughtful cast . 
As I did not want to appear as if I wished to avoid all communication with my officers , he had the opportunity to address me . 
Seems a very nice man . 
His boat's crew told our chaps a very extraordinary story , if what I am told by the steward is true . 
I suppose you had it from the captain , sir ? Yes . 
I had a story from the captain . 
A very horrible affair isn't it , sir ? It is . 
Beats all these tales we hear about murders in Yankee ships . 
I don't think it beats them . 
I don't think it resembles them in the least . 
Bless my soul you don't say so ! But of course I've no acquaintance whatever with American ships , not I so I couldn't go against your knowledge . 
It's horrible enough for me . 
But the queerest part is that those fellows seemed to have some idea the man was hidden aboard here . 
Did you ever hear of such a thing ? Preposterous isn't it ? We were walking to and fro athwart the quarter deck . 
, and the mate pursued There was some little dispute about it . 
As if we would harbor a thing like that , they said . 
Wouldn't you like to look for him in our coal hole ? Quite a tiff . 
But they made it up in the end . 
I suppose he did drown himself . 
Don't you , sir ? I don't suppose anything . 
You have no doubt in the matter , sir ? None whatever . 
I felt I was producing a bad impression , but with my double down there it was most trying to be on deck . 
And it was almost as trying to be below . 
Altogether a nerve trying situation . 
But on the whole I felt less torn in two when I was with him . 
There was no one in the whole ship whom I dared take into my confidence . 
The steward being engaged in laying the table for dinner , we could talk only with our eyes when I first went down . 
Later in the afternoon we had a cautious try at whispering . 
The very trust in Providence was , I suppose , denied to his guilt . 
And the proof of it was his earnest whisper , The man told you he hardly dared to give the order . 
I understood the reference to be to that saving foresail . 
He was afraid of it being lost in the setting . 
I assure you he never gave the order . 
He may think he did , but he never gave it . 
It worked me up into a sort of desperation . 
I just took it into my own hands and went away from him , boiling , and But what's the use telling you ? YOU know ! . 
I was precious little better than the rest . 
Only I was an officer of that old coal wagon , anyhow I quite understand , I conveyed that sincere assurance into his ear . 
He was out of breath with whispering I could hear him pant slightly . 
It was all very simple . 
But I had no leisure to weigh the merits of the matter footsteps in the saloon , a heavy knock . 
There's enough wind to get under way with , sir . 
Here was the call of a new claim upon my thoughts and even upon my feelings . 
Turn the hands up , I cried through the door . 
I'll be on deck directly . 
I was going out to make the acquaintance of my ship . 
Before I left the cabin our eyes met the eyes of the only two strangers on board . 
I pointed to the recessed part where the little campstool awaited him and laid my finger on my lips . 
He made a gesture somewhat vague a little mysterious , accompanied by a faint smile , as if of regret . 
This is not the place to enlarge upon the sensations of a man who feels for the first time a ship move under his feet to his own independent word . 
In my case they were not unalloyed . 
I was not wholly alone with my command for there was that stranger in my cabin . 
Or rather , I was not completely and wholly with her . 
Part of me was absent . 
That mental feeling of being in two places at once affected me physically as if the mood of secrecy had penetrated my very soul . 
to take a compass bearing of the pagoda , I caught myself reaching up to his ear in whispers . 
I say I caught myself , but enough had escaped to startle the man . 
I can't describe it otherwise than by saying that he shied . 
A grave , preoccupied manner , as though he were in possession of some perplexing intelligence , did not leave him henceforth . 
These are trifling instances , though it's to no commander's advantage to be suspected of ludicrous eccentricities . 
But I was also more seriously affected . 
There are to a seaman certain words , gestures , that should in given conditions come as naturally , as instinctively as the winking of a menaced eye . 
A certain order should spring on to his lips without thinking a certain sign should get itself made , so to speak , without reflection . 
But all unconscious alertness had abandoned me . 
I had to make an effort of will to recall myself back to the conditions of the moment . 
I felt that I was appearing an irresolute commander to those people who were watching me more or less critically . 
And , besides , there were the scares . 
I stopped at the open pantry door and spoke to the steward . 
He was doing something there with his back to me . 
At the sound of my voice he nearly jumped out of his skin , as the saying is , and incidentally broke a cup . 
What on earth's the matter with you ? I asked , astonished . 
Beg your pardon , sir . 
I made sure you were in your cabin . 
I could have sworn I had heard you moving in there not a moment ago . 
I passed on with an inward shudder . 
I was so identified with my secret double that I did not even mention the fact in those scanty , fearful whispers we exchanged . 
I suppose he had made some slight noise of some kind or other . 
It would have been miraculous if he hadn't at one time or another . 
And yet , haggard as he appeared , he looked always perfectly self controlled , more than calm almost invulnerable . 
On my suggestion he remained almost entirely in the bathroom , which , upon the whole , was the safest place . 
There could be really no shadow of an excuse for anyone ever wanting to go in there , once the steward had done with it . 
It was a very tiny place . 
Sometimes he reclined on the floor , his legs bent , his head sustained on one elbow . 
At others I would find him on the campstool , sitting in his gray sleeping suit and with his cropped dark hair like a patient , unmoved convict . 
At night I would smuggle him into my bed place , and we would whisper together , with the regular footfalls of the officer of the watch passing and repassing over our heads . 
It was an infinitely miserable time . 
My early morning coffee he always drank and it was all I dared do for him in that respect . 
Every day there was the horrible maneuvering to go through so that my room and then the bathroom should be done in the usual way . 
I came to hate the sight of the steward , to abhor the voice of that harmless man . 
I felt that it was he who would bring on the disaster of discovery . 
It hung like a sword over our heads . 
This could not be dangerous . 
Sitting stolidly at the head of the table I became terrified at the sight of the garment on his arm . 
Of course he made for my door . 
There was no time to lose . 
My nerves were so shaken that I could not govern my voice and conceal my agitation . 
This was the sort of thing that made my terrifically whiskered mate tap his forehead with his forefinger . 
I had detected him using that gesture while talking on deck with a confidential air to the carpenter . 
It was too far to hear a word , but I had no doubt that this pantomime could only refer to the strange new captain . 
Yes , sir , the pale faced steward turned resignedly to me . 
Where are you going with that coat ? To your room , sir . 
Is there another shower coming ? I'm sure I don't know , sir . 
Shall I go up again and see , sir ? No ! never mind . 
My object was attained , as of course my other self in there would have heard everything that passed . 
During this interlude my two officers never raised their eyes off their respective plates but the lip of that confounded cub , the second mate , quivered visibly . 
I expected the steward to hook my coat on and come out at once . 
He was very slow about it but I dominated my nervousness sufficiently not to shout after him . 
that the fellow for some reason or other was opening the door of the bathroom . 
The place was literally not big enough to swing a cat in . 
My voice died in my throat and I went stony all over . 
I expected to hear a yell of surprise and terror , and made a movement , but had not the strength to get on my legs . 
But , no ! Lost ! Gone ! He was gone ! I laid my knife and fork down and leaned back in my chair . 
After a while , when sufficiently recovered to speak in a steady voice , I instructed my mate to put the ship round at eight o'clock himself . 
I won't come on deck , I went on . 
I think I'll turn in , and unless the wind shifts I don't want to be disturbed before midnight . 
I feel a bit seedy . 
You did look middling bad a little while ago , the chief mate remarked without showing any great concern . 
They both went out , and I stared at the steward clearing the table . 
There was nothing to be read on that wretched man's face . 
But why did he avoid my eyes , I asked myself . 
Then I thought I should like to hear the sound of his voice . 
Steward ! Sir ! Startled as usual . 
Where did you hang up that coat ? In the bathroom , sir . 
It's not quite dry yet , sir . 
For some time longer I sat in the cuddy . 
Had my double vanished as he had come ? But of his coming there was an explanation , whereas his disappearance would be inexplicable . 
I went slowly into my dark room , shut the door , lighted the lamp , and for a time dared not turn round . 
When at last I did I saw him standing bolt upright in the narrow recessed part . 
It would not be true to say I had a shock , but an irresistible doubt of his bodily existence flitted through my mind . 
Can it be , I asked myself , that he is not visible to other eyes than mine ? It was like being haunted . 
Motionless , with a grave face , he raised his hands slightly at me in a gesture which meant clearly , Heavens ! what a narrow escape ! Narrow indeed . 
I think I had come creeping quietly as near insanity as any man who has not actually gone over the border . 
That gesture restrained me , so to speak . 
The mate with the terrific whiskers was now putting the ship on the other tack . 
The sails , in that light breeze , made but a faint fluttering noise . 
The ship was coming round slowly I held my breath in the renewed stillness of expectation one wouldn't have thought that there was a single living soul on her decks . 
He did not wait for my question . 
I heard him fumbling here and just managed to squat myself down in the bath , he whispered to me . 
The fellow only opened the door and put his arm in to hang the coat up . 
There was no agitation in his whisper . 
Whoever was being driven distracted , it was not he . 
And the proof of his sanity was continued when he took up the whispering again . 
It would never do for me to come to life again . 
It was something that a ghost might have said . 
But what he was alluding to was his old captain's reluctant admission of the theory of suicide . 
It would obviously serve his turn if I had understood at all the view which seemed to govern the unalterable purpose of his action . 
You must maroon me as soon as ever you can get amongst these islands off the Cambodge shore , he went on . 
Maroon you ! We are not living in a boy's adventure tale , I protested . 
His scornful whispering took me up . 
We aren't indeed ! There's nothing of a boy's tale in this . 
But there's nothing else for it . 
You don't suppose I am afraid of what can be done to me ? Prison or gallows or whatever they may please . 
What does the Bible say ? Driven off the face of the earth . 
Very well , I am off the face of the earth now . 
As I came at night so I shall go . 
Not naked like a soul on the Day of Judgment . 
I shall freeze on to this sleeping suit . 
The Last Day is not yet and . 
Didn't you ? I felt suddenly ashamed of myself . 
I may say truly that I understood and my hesitation in letting that man swim away from my ship's side had been a mere sham sentiment , a sort of cowardice . 
It can't be done now till next night , I breathed out . 
The ship is on the off shore tack and the wind may fail us . 
As long as I know that you understand , he whispered . 
But of course you do . 
It's a great satisfaction to have got somebody to understand . 
You seem to have been there on purpose . 
We remained side by side talking in our secret way but sometimes silent or just exchanging a whispered word or two at long intervals . 
And as usual he stared through the port . 
A breath of wind came now and again into our faces . 
At midnight I went on deck , and to my mate's great surprise put the ship round on the other tack . 
His terrible whiskers flitted round me in silent criticism . 
I certainly should not have done it if it had been only a question of getting out of that sleepy gulf as quickly as possible . 
I believe he told the second mate , who relieved him , that it was a great want of judgment . 
That intolerable cub shuffled about so sleepily and lolled against the rails in such a slack , improper fashion that I came down on him sharply . 
Aren't you properly awake yet ? Yes , sir ! I am awake . 
Well , then , be good enough to hold yourself as if you were . 
If there's any current we'll be closing with some islands before daylight . 
The east side of the gulf is fringed with islands , some solitary , others in groups . 
Unknown to trade , to travel , almost to geography , the manner of life they harbor is an unsolved secret . 
There must be villages settlements of fishermen at least on the largest of them , and some communication with the world is probably kept up by native craft . 
At noon I have no orders for a change of course , and the mate's whiskers became much concerned and seemed to be offering themselves unduly to my notice . 
At last I said I am going to stand right in . 
Quite in as far as I can take her . 
The stare of extreme surprise imparted an air of ferocity also to his eyes , and he looked truly terrific for a moment . 
We're not doing well in the middle of the gulf , I continued , casually . 
I am going to look for the land breezes tonight . 
All that afternoon he wore a dreamy , contemplative appearance which in him was a mark of perplexity . 
After dinner I went into my stateroom as if I meant to take some rest . 
There we two bent our dark heads over a half unrolled chart lying on my bed . 
It's got to be Koh ring . 
I've been looking at it ever since sunrise . 
It has got two hills and a low point . 
And on the coast opposite there is what looks like the mouth of a biggish river with some towns , no doubt , not far up . 
It's the best chance for you that I can see . 
Koh ring let it be . 
And it was as if the ship had two captains to plan her course for her . 
I had been so worried and restless running up and down that I had not had the patience to dress that day . 
I had remained in my sleeping suit , with straw slippers and a soft floppy hat . 
The closeness of the heat in the gulf had been most oppressive , and the crew were used to seeing me wandering in that airy attire . 
She will clear the south point as she heads now , I whispered into his ear . 
Goodness only knows when , though , but certainly after dark . 
I could not stop a moment longer in the room . 
I motioned him to get out of sight and made my way on the poop . 
That unplayful cub had the watch . 
I walked up and down for a while thinking things out , then beckoned him over . 
Send a couple of hands to open the two quarter deck ports , I said , mildly . 
Have them open wide and fastened properly . 
He reddened and went off , but I believe made some jeering remark to the carpenter as to the sensible practice of ventilating a ship's quarter deck . 
A little before supper , feeling more restless than ever , I rejoined , for a moment , my second self . 
And to find him sitting so quietly was surprising , like something against nature , inhuman . 
I developed my plan in a hurried whisper . 
I shall stand in as close as I dare and then put her round . 
I will presently find means to smuggle you out of here into the sail locker , which communicates with the lobby . 
I've had them both fastened up . 
Use a rope's end to lower yourself into the water so as to avoid a splash you know . 
It could be heard and cause some beastly complication . 
He kept silent for a while , then whispered , I understand . 
I won't be there to see you go , I began with an effort . 
I only hope I have understood , too . 
From first to last and for the first time there seemed to be a faltering , something strained in his whisper . 
He caught hold of my arm , but the ringing of the supper bell made me start . 
He didn't though he only released his grip . 
After supper I didn't come below again till well past eight o'clock . 
The faint , steady breeze was loaded with dew and the wet , darkened sails held all there was of propelling power in it . 
The night , clear and starry , sparkled darkly , and the opaque , lightless patches shifting slowly against the low stars were the drifting islets . 
On the port bow there was a big one more distant and shadowily imposing by the great space of sky it eclipsed . 
On opening the door I had a back view of my very own self looking at a chart . 
He had come out of the recess and was standing near the table . 
Quite dark enough , I whispered . 
He stepped back and leaned against my bed with a level , quiet glance . 
I sat on the couch . 
We had nothing to say to each other . 
Over our heads the officer of the watch moved here and there . 
Then I heard him move quickly . 
I knew what that meant . 
He was making for the companion and presently his voice was outside my door . 
We are drawing in pretty fast , sir . 
Very well , I answered . 
I am coming on deck directly . 
I waited till he was gone out of the cuddy , then rose . 
The time had come to exchange our last whispers , for neither of us was ever to hear each other's natural voice . 
Look here ! I opened a drawer and took out three sovereigns . 
Take it , I urged him , whispering desperately . 
No one can tell what He smiled and slapped meaningly the only pocket of the sleeping jacket . 
It was not safe , certainly . 
But I produced a large old silk handkerchief of mine , and tying the three pieces of gold in a corner , pressed it on him . 
He was touched , I supposed , because he took it at last and tied it quickly round his waist under the jacket , on his bare skin . 
Our eyes met several seconds elapsed , till , our glances still mingled , I extended my hand and turned the lamp out . 
Then I passed through the cuddy , leaving the door of my room wide open . 
Steward ! He was still lingering in the pantry in the greatness of his zeal , giving a rub up to a plated cruet stand the last thing before going to bed . 
Being careful not to wake up the mate , whose room was opposite , I spoke in an undertone . 
Sir ! Can you get me a little hot water from the galley ? I am afraid , sir , the galley fire's been out for some time now . 
He flew up the stairs . 
Now , I whispered , loudly , into the saloon too loudly , perhaps , but I was afraid I couldn't make a sound . 
He was by my side in an instant the double captain slipped past the stairs through a tiny dark passage . 
We were in the sail locker , scrambling on our knees over the sails . 
A sudden thought struck me . 
I saw myself wandering barefooted , bareheaded , the sun beating on my dark poll . 
I snatched off my floppy hat and tried hurriedly in the dark to ram it on my other self . 
He dodged and fended off silently . 
I wonder what he thought had come to me before he understood and suddenly desisted . 
Our hands met gropingly , lingered united in a steady , motionless clasp for a second . 
No word was breathed by either of us when they separated . 
I was standing quietly by the pantry door when the steward returned . 
Shall I light the spirit lamp ? Never mind . 
I came out on deck slowly . 
It was now a matter of conscience to shave the land as close as possible for now he must go overboard whenever the ship was put in stays . 
Must ! There could be no going back for him . 
After a moment I walked over to leeward and my heart flew into my mouth at the nearness of the land on the bow . 
Under any other circumstances I would not have held on a minute longer . 
The second mate had followed me anxiously . 
I looked on till I felt I could command my voice . 
She will weather , I said then in a quiet tone . 
Are you going to try that , sir ? he stammered out incredulously . 
I took no notice of him and raised my tone just enough to be heard by the helmsman . 
The wind fanned my cheek , the sails slept , the world was silent . 
The strain of watching the dark loom of the land grow bigger and denser was too much for me . 
I had shut my eyes because the ship must go closer . 
She must ! The stillness was intolerable . 
Were we standing still ? When I opened my eyes the second view started my heart with a thump . 
The black southern hill of Koh ring seemed to hang right over the ship like a towering fragment of everlasting night . 
On that enormous mass of blackness there was not a gleam to be seen , not a sound to be heard . 
It was gliding irresistibly towards us and yet seemed already within reach of the hand . 
I saw the vague figures of the watch grouped in the waist , gazing in awed silence . 
Are you going on , sir ? inquired an unsteady voice at my elbow . 
I had to go on . 
That won't do now , I said warningly . 
I can't see the sails very well , the helmsman answered me , in strange , quavering tones . 
Give the mate a call , I said to the young man who stood at my elbow as still as death . 
And turn all hands up . 
My tone had a borrowed loudness reverberated from the height of the land . 
Several voices cried out together We are all on deck , sir . 
Then stillness again , with the great shadow gliding closer , towering higher , without a light , without a sound . 
Such a hush had fallen on the ship that she might have been a bark of the dead floating in slowly under the very gate of Erebus . 
My God ! Where are we ? It was the mate moaning at my elbow . 
He was thunderstruck , and as it were deprived of the moral support of his whiskers . 
He clapped his hands and absolutely cried out , Lost ! Be quiet , I said , sternly . 
He lowered his tone , but I saw the shadowy gesture of his despair . 
What are we doing here ? Looking for the land wind . 
He made as if to tear his hair , and addressed me recklessly . 
She will never get out . 
You have done it , sir . 
I knew it'd end in something like this . 
She will never weather , and you are too close now to stay . 
She'll drift ashore before she's round . 
O my God ! I caught his arm as he was raising it to batter his poor devoted head , and shook it violently . 
She's ashore already , he wailed , trying to tear himself away . 
Keep good full there ! Good full , sir , cried the helmsman in a frightened , thin , childlike voice . 
I hadn't let go the mate's arm and went on shaking it . 
Ready about , do you hear ? You go forward shake and stop there shake and hold your noise shake and see these head sheets properly overhauled shake , shake shake . 
And all the time I dared not look towards the land lest my heart should fail me . 
I released my grip at last and he ran forward as if fleeing for dear life . 
I wondered what my double there in the sail locker thought of this commotion . 
He was able to hear everything and perhaps he was able to understand why , on my conscience , it had to be thus close no less . 
My first order Hard alee ! re echoed ominously under the towering shadow of Koh ring as if I had shouted in a mountain gorge . 
And then I watched the land intently . 
In that smooth water and light wind it was impossible to feel the ship coming to . 
No ! I could not feel her . 
And my second self was making now ready to ship out and lower himself overboard . 
Perhaps he was gone already . 
? The great black mass brooding over our very mastheads began to pivot away from the ship's side silently . 
And now I forgot the secret stranger ready to depart , and remembered only that I was a total stranger to the ship . 
I did not know her . 
Would she do it ? How was she to be handled ? I swung the mainyard and waited helplessly . 
She was perhaps stopped , and her very fate hung in the balance , with the black mass of Koh ring like the gate of the everlasting night towering over her taffrail . 
It was impossible to tell and I had not learned yet the feel of my ship . 
Was she moving ? What I needed was something easily seen , a piece of paper , which I could throw overboard and watch . 
I had nothing on me . 
To run down for it I didn't dare . 
All at once my strained , yearning stare distinguished a white object floating within a yard of the ship's side . 
White on the black water . 
A phosphorescent flash passed under it . 
What was that thing ? . 
I recognized my own floppy hat . 
It must have fallen off his head . 
Now I had what I wanted the saving mark for my eyes . 
And I watched the hat the expression of my sudden pity for his mere flesh . 
It had been meant to save his homeless head from the dangers of the sun . 
And now behold it was saving the ship , by serving me for a mark to help out the ignorance of my strangeness . 
Ha ! It was drifting forward , warning me just in time that the ship had gathered sternaway . 
Shift the helm , I said in a low voice to the seaman standing still like a statue . 
The man's eyes glistened wildly in the binnacle light as he jumped round to the other side and spun round the wheel . 
I walked to the break of the poop . 
On the over shadowed deck all hands stood by the forebraces waiting for my order . 
The stars ahead seemed to be gliding from right to left . 
And all was so still in the world that I heard the quiet remark , She's round , passed in a tone of intense relief between two seamen . 
The foreyards ran round with a great noise , amidst cheery cries . 
And now the frightful whiskers made themselves heard giving various orders . 
Already the ship was drawing ahead . 
And I was alone with her . 
