Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com GOOD STORIES FOR GREAT HOLIDAYS ARRANGED FOR STORY TELLING AND READING ALOUD AND FOR THE CHILDREN'S OWN READING BY FRANCES JENKINS OLCOTT Index according to reading level is appended . 
TO THE STORY TELLER This volume , though intended also for the children's own reading and for reading aloud , is especially planned for story telling . 
The latter is a delightful way of arousing a gladsome holiday spirit , and of showing the inner meanings of different holidays . 
The range of selection is wide , and touches all sides of wholesome boy and girl nature , and the tales have the power to arouse an appropriate holiday spirit . 
As far as possible the stories are presented in their original form . 
When , however , they are too long for inclusion , or too loose in structure for story telling purposes , they are adapted . 
Adapted stories are of two sorts . 
Condensed in which case a piece of literature is shortened , scarcely any changes being made in the original language . 
Rewritten here the plot , imagery , language , and style of the original are retained as far as possible , while the whole is moulded into form suitable for story telling . 
Some few stories are built up on a slight framework of original matter . 
Among the men and books contributing to these pages are the Gesta Romanorum , Il Libro d'Oro , Xenophon , Ovid , Lucian , the Venerable Bede , William of Malmesbury . 
The stories are arranged to meet the needs of story telling in the graded schools . 
Reading lists , showing where to find additional material for story telling and collateral reading , are added . 
Grades in which the recommended stories are useful are indicated . 
The number of selections in the volume , as well as the references to other books , is limited by the amount and character of available material . 
For instance , there is little to be found for Saint Valentine's Day , while there is an overwhelming abundance of fine stories for the Christmas season . 
Volumes containing these stories may be procured at the public library . 
A subject index is appended . 
This indicates the ethical , historical , and other subject matter of interest to the teacher , thus making the volume serviceable for other occasions besides holidays . 
In learning her tale the story teller is advised not to commit it to memory . 
Such a method is apt to produce a wooden or glib manner of presentation . 
SAINT VALENTINE SAINT VALENTINE Millicent Olmsted A GIRL'S VALENTINE CHARM The Connoisseur , MR . 
Confederate Memorial Day is celebrated in some States on April and in others on May . 
THE FIRST HARVEST HOME IN PLYMOUTH W. De Loss Lore , Jr . 
Two little boys were at play one day when a Fairy suddenly appeared before them and said I have been sent to give you New Year presents . 
'' She handed to each child a package , and in an instant was gone . 
Carl and Philip opened the packages and found in them two beautiful books , with pages as pure and white as the snow when it first falls . 
Many months passed and the Fairy came again to the boys . 
I have brought you each another book ? '' said she , and will take the first ones back to Father Time who sent them to you . 
'' May I not keep mine a little longer ? '' asked Philip . 
I have hardly thought about it lately . 
I'd like to paint something on the last leaf that lies open . 
'' No , '' said the Fairy I must take it just as it is . 
'' You shall look at your book , '' said the Fairy , and Philip , at his . 
'' And she lit for them two little silver lamps , by the light of which they saw the pages as she turned them . 
The boys looked in wonder . 
Some pages were decorated with gold and silver and gorgeous colors , others with beautiful flowers , and still others with a rainbow of softest , most delicate brightness . 
Yet even on the most beautiful of the pages there were ugly blots and scratches . 
Carl and Philip looked up at the Fairy at last . 
Who did this ? '' they asked . 
'' But what makes this blot ? '' asked Philip . 
That , '' said the Fairy sadly that came when you told an untruth one day , and this when you did not mind mamma . 
All these blots and scratches that look so ugly , both in your book and in Carl's , were made when you were naughty . 
Each pretty thing in your books came on its page when you were good . 
'' Oh , if we could only have the books again ! '' said Carl and Philip . 
That cannot be , '' said the Fairy . 
See ! they are dated for this year , and they must now go back into Father Time's bookcase , but I have brought you each a new one . 
Perhaps you can make these more beautiful than the others . 
'' So saying , she vanished , and the boys were left alone , but each held in his hand a new book open at the first page . 
And on the back of this book was written in letters of gold , For the New Year . 
It was very , very cold it snowed and it grew dark it was the last evening of the year , New Year's Eve . 
In the cold and dark a poor little girl , with bare head and bare feet , was walking through the streets . 
The little maid lost them as she slipped across the road , where two carriages were rattling by terribly fast . 
One slipper was not to be found again , and a boy ran away with the other . 
He said he could use it for a cradle when he had children of his own . 
So now the little girl went with her little naked feet , which were quite red and blue with the cold . 
In an old apron she carried a number of matches , and a bundle of them in her hand . 
No one had bought anything of her all day no one had given her a copper . 
In all the windows lights were shining , and there was a glorious smell of roast goose out there in the street it was no doubt New Year's Eve . 
Her small hands were quite numb with the cold . 
Ah ! a little match might do her good if she only dared draw one from the bundle , and strike it against the wall , and warm her fingers at it . 
Then the match went out , and only the thick , damp , cold wall was before her . 
Then she was sitting under a beautiful Christmas tree it was greater and finer than the one she had seen through the glass door at the rich merchant's . 
Thousands of candles burned upon the green branches , and colored pictures like those in the shop windows looked down upon them . 
The little girl stretched forth both hands toward them then the match went out . 
The Christmas lights went higher and higher . 
She saw that now they were stars in the sky one of them fell and made a long line of fire . 
'' She rubbed another match against the wall it became bright again , and in the light there stood the old grandmother clear and shining , mild and lovely . 
Grandmother ! '' cried the child . 
Oh , take me with you ! I know you will go when the match is burned out . 
And the matches burned with such a glow that it became brighter than in the middle of the day grandmother had never been so large or so beautiful . 
But in the corner by the house sat the little girl , with red cheeks and smiling mouth , frozen to death on the last evening of the Old Year . 
The New Year's sun rose upon the little body , that sat there with the matches , of which one bundle was burned . 
She wanted to warm herself , the people said . 
No one knew what fine things she had seen , and in what glory she had gone in with her grandmother to the New Year's Day . 
There was once a widow who had two daughters , Helen , her own child by her dead husband , and Marouckla , his daughter by his first wife . 
She loved Helen , but hated the poor orphan because she was far prettier than her own daughter . 
Marouckla did not think about her good looks , and could not understand why her stepmother should be angry at the sight of her . 
The hardest work fell to her share . 
She cleaned out the rooms , cooked , washed , sewed , spun , wove , brought in the hay , milked the cow , and all this without any help . 
Helen , meanwhile , did nothing but dress herself in her best clothes and go to one amusement after another . 
She bore the scoldings and bad temper of mother and sister with a smile on her lips , and the patience of a lamb . 
But this angelic behavior did not soften them . 
They became even more tyrannical and grumpy , for Marouckla grew daily more beautiful , while Helen's ugliness increased . 
So the stepmother determined to get rid of Marouckla , for she knew that while she remained , her own daughter would have no suitors . 
Hunger , every kind of privation , abuse , every means was used to make the girl's life miserable . 
But in spite of it all Marouckla grew ever sweeter and more charming . 
One day in the middle of winter Helen wanted some wood violets . 
Listen , '' cried she to Marouckla , you must go up the mountain and find me violets . 
I want some to put in my gown . 
They must be fresh and sweet scented do you hear ? '' But , my dear sister , whoever heard of violets blooming in the snow ? '' said the poor orphan . 
You wretched creature ! Do you dare to disobey me ? '' said Helen . 
Off with you ! If you do not bring me some violets from the mountain forest I will kill you . 
'' The stepmother also added her threats to those of Helen , and with vigorous blows they pushed Marouckla outside and shut the door upon her . 
The weeping girl made her way to the mountain . 
The snow lay deep , and there was no trace of any human being . 
Long she wandered hither and thither , and lost herself in the wood . 
She was hungry , and shivered with cold , and prayed to die . 
Suddenly she saw a light in the distance , and climbed toward it till she reached the top of the mountain . 
Upon the highest peak burned a large fire , surrounded by twelve blocks of stone on which sat twelve strange beings . 
Of these the first three had white hair , three were not quite so old , three were young and handsome , and the rest still younger . 
There they all sat silently looking at the fire . 
They were the Twelve Months of the Year . 
The great January was placed higher than the others . 
His hair and mustache were white as snow , and in his hand he held a wand . 
'' The great January raised his head and answered What brings thee here , my daughter ? What dost thou seek ? '' I am looking for violets , '' replied the maiden . 
This is not the season for violets . 
Dost thou not see the snow everywhere ? '' said January . 
I know well , but my sister Helen and my stepmother have ordered me to bring them violets from your mountain . 
If I return without them they will kill me . 
I pray you , good shepherds , tell me where they may be found . 
'' March obeyed , at the same time waving his wand over the fire . 
Immediately the flames rose toward the sky , the snow began to melt and the trees and shrubs to bud . 
The grass became green , and from between its blades peeped the pale primrose . 
It was spring , and the meadows were blue with violets . 
Gather them quickly , Marouckla , '' said March . 
Joyfully she hastened to pick the flowers , and having soon a large bunch she thanked them and ran home . 
Helen and the stepmother were amazed at the sight of the flowers , the scent of which filled the house . 
Where did you find them ? '' asked Helen . 
Under the trees on the mountain side , '' said Marouckla . 
Helen kept the flowers for herself and her mother . 
She did not even thank her stepsister for the trouble she had taken . 
The next day she desired Marouckla to fetch her strawberries . 
Run , '' said she , and fetch me strawberries from the mountain . 
They must be very sweet and ripe . 
'' But whoever heard of strawberries ripening in the snow ? '' exclaimed Marouckla . 
Hold your tongue , worm don't answer me . 
If I don't have my strawberries I will kill you , '' said Helen . 
Then the stepmother pushed Marouckla into the yard and bolted the door . 
The unhappy girl made her way toward the mountain and to the large fire round which sat the Twelve Months . 
The great January occupied the highest place . 
Men of God , may I warm myself at your fire ? The winter cold chills me , '' said she , drawing near . 
The great January raised his head and asked Why comest thou here ? What dost thou seek ? '' I am looking for strawberries , '' said she . 
We are in the midst of winter , '' replied January , strawberries do not grow in the snow . 
'' I know , '' said the girl sadly , but my sister and stepmother have ordered me to bring them strawberries . 
If I do not they will kill me . 
Pray , good shepherds , tell me where to find them . 
'' The great January arose , crossed over to the Month opposite him , and putting the wand in his hand , said Brother June , do thou take the highest place . 
'' June obeyed , and as he waved his wand over the fire the flames leaped toward the sky . 
Instantly the snow melted , the earth was covered with verdure , trees were clothed with leaves , birds began to sing , and various flowers blossomed in the forest . 
Under the bushes masses of star shaped flowers changed into ripening strawberries , and instantly they covered the glade , making it look like a sea of blood . 
Gather them quickly , Marouckla , '' said June . 
Joyfully she thanked the Months , and having filled her apron ran happily home . 
Helen and her mother wondered at seeing the strawberries , which filled the house with their delicious fragrance . 
Wherever did you find them ? '' asked Helen crossly . 
Right up among the mountains . 
Those from under the beech trees are not bad , '' answered Marouckla . 
Helen gave a few to her mother and ate the rest herself . 
Not one did she offer to her stepsister . 
Being tired of strawberries , on the third day she took a fancy for some fresh , red apples . 
Run , Marouckla , '' said she , and fetch me fresh , red apples from the mountain . 
'' As before , the stepmother seized her roughly and turned her out of the house . 
The poor girl went weeping up the mountain , across the deep snow , and on toward the fire round which were the Twelve Months . 
Motionless they sat there , and on the highest stone was the great January . 
Men of God , may I warm myself at your fire ? The winter cold chills me , '' said she , drawing near . 
The great January raised his head . 
Why comest thou here ? What does thou seek ? '' asked he . 
I am come to look for red apples , '' replied Marouckla . 
But this is winter , and not the season for red apples , '' observed the great January . 
I know , '' answered the girl , but my sister and stepmother sent me to fetch red apples from the mountain . 
If I return without them they will kill me . 
'' Thereupon the great January arose and went over to one of the elderly Months , to whom he handed the wand saying Brother September , do thou take the highest place . 
'' September moved to the highest stone , and waved his wand over the fire . 
Only a few flowers of autumn were visible . 
At first Marouckla looked in vain for red apples . 
Then she espied a tree which grew at a great height , and from the branches of this hung the bright , red fruit . 
September ordered her to gather some quickly . 
The girl was delighted and shook the tree . 
First one apple fell , then another . 
That is enough , '' said September hurry home . 
'' Thanking the Months she returned joyfully . 
Helen and the stepmother wondered at seeing the fruit . 
Where did you gather them ? '' asked the stepsister . 
There are more on the mountain top , '' answered Marouckla . 
Then , why did you not bring more ? '' said Helen angrily . 
You must have eaten them on your way back , you wicked girl . 
'' No , dear sister , I have not even tasted them , '' said Marouckla . 
I shook the tree twice . 
One apple fell each time . 
Some shepherds would not allow me to shake it again , but told me to return home . 
'' Listen , mother , '' said Helen . 
I will fetch some more apples myself . 
I shall be able to find the mountain and the tree . 
The shepherds may cry Stop ! but I will not leave go till I have shaken down all the apples . 
'' In spite of her mother's advice she wrapped herself in her pelisse , put on a warm hood , and took the road to the mountain . 
Helen lost herself and wandered hither and thither . 
After a while she saw a light above her , and , following in its direction , reached the mountain top . 
There was the flaming fire , the twelve blocks of stone , and the Twelve Months . 
At first she was frightened and hesitated then she came nearer and warmed her hands . 
She did not ask permission , nor did she speak one polite word . 
What hath brought thee here ? What dost thou seek ? '' said the great January severely . 
I am not obliged to tell you , old graybeard . 
What business is it of yours ? '' she replied disdainfully , turning her back on the fire and going toward the forest . 
The great January frowned , and waved his wand over his head . 
Instantly the sky became covered with clouds , the fire went down , snow fell in large flakes , an icy wind howled round the mountain . 
Amid the fury of the storm Helen stumbled about . 
The pelisse failed to warm her benumbed limbs . 
The mother kept on waiting for her . 
She looked from the window , she watched from the doorstep , but her daughter came not . 
The hours passed slowly , but Helen did not return . 
Can it be that the apples have charmed her from her home ? '' thought the mother . 
Then she clad herself in hood and pelisse , and went in search of her daughter . 
Snow fell in huge masses . 
For long she wandered hither and thither , the icy northeast wind whistled in the mountain , but no voice answered her cries . 
Day after day Marouckla worked , and prayed , and waited , but neither stepmother nor sister returned . 
They had been frozen to death on the mountain . 
The inheritance of a small house , a field , and a cow fell to Marouckla . 
In course of time an honest farmer came to share them with her , and their lives were happy and peaceful . 
The sky glittered with stars , and not a breeze stirred . 
Bump , '' an old pot was thrown at a neighbor's door and , Bang ! Bang ! '' went the guns , for they were greeting the New Year . 
It was New Year's Eve , and the church clock was striking twelve . 
Tan ta ra ra , tan ta ra ra ! '' sounded the horn , and the mail coach came lumbering up . 
The clumsy vehicle stopped at the gate of the town all the places had been taken , for there were twelve passengers in the coach . 
Who were they ? What did they want ? And what did they bring with them ? Good morning ! '' they cried to the sentry at the town gate . 
Good morning , '' replied the sentry , for the clock had struck twelve . 
Your name and profession ? '' asked the sentry of the one who alighted first from the carriage . 
See for yourself in the passport , '' he replied . 
I am myself ! '' and a famous fellow he looked , arrayed in bearskin and fur boots . 
Come to me to morrow , and I will give you a New Year's present . 
I throw shillings and pence among the people . 
I give balls every night , no less than thirty one indeed , that is the highest number I can spare for balls . 
My ships are often frozen in , but in my offices it is warm and comfortable . 
I am a merchant , and I generally bring my accounts with me . 
'' Then the second alighted . 
He seemed a merry fellow . 
He was a director of a theater , a manager of masked balls , and a leader of all the amusements we can imagine . 
His luggage consisted of a great cask . 
We'll dance the bung out of the cask at carnival time , '' said he . 
I'll prepare a merry tune for you and for myself , too . 
Unfortunately I have not long to live , the shortest time , in fact , of my whole family , only twenty eight days . 
Sometimes they pop me in a day extra but I trouble myself very little about that . 
Hurrah ! '' You must not shout so , '' said the sentry . 
Certainly I may shout , '' retorted the man . 
I'm Prince Carnival , traveling under THE NAME OF FEBRUARY . 
'' The third now got out . 
He looked the personification of fasting but he carried his nose very high , for he was a weather prophet . 
In his buttonhole he wore a little bunch of violets , but they were very small . 
I can smell it already ! FORWARD , MASTER MARCH ! '' But it was not true . 
The speaker only wanted to make an APRIL FOOL of him , for with that fun the fourth stranger generally began his career . 
He looked very jovial , and did little work . 
If the world were only more settled ! '' said he but sometimes I'm obliged to be in a good humor , and sometimes a bad one . 
I can laugh or cry according to circumstances . 
I have my summer wardrobe in this box here , but it would be very foolish to put it on now ! '' After him a lady stepped out of the coach . 
SHE CALLED HERSELF MISS MAY . 
She wore a summer dress and overshoes . 
Her dress was light green , and there were anemones in her hair . 
She was so scented with wild thyme that it made the sentry sneeze . 
Your health , and God bless you ! '' was her greeting . 
How pretty she was ! and such a singer ! Not a theater singer nor a ballad singer no , but a singer of the woods . 
For she wandered through the gay , green forest , and had a concert there for her own amusement . 
Now comes the young lady , '' said those in the coach and out stepped a young dame , delicate , proud , and pretty . 
In her service people become lazy and fond of sleeping for hours . 
She gives a feast on the longest day of the year , that there may be time for her guests to partake of the numerous dishes at her table . 
Indeed , she keeps her own carriage , but still she travels by the mail coach with the rest because she wishes to show that she is not proud . 
But she was not without a protector her younger brother , JULY , was with her . 
He was a plump , young fellow , clad in summer garments , and wearing a straw hat . 
He had very little luggage because it was so cumbersome in the great heat . 
He had , however , swimming trousers with him , which are nothing to carry . 
Then came the mother herself , MADAME AUGUST , a wholesale dealer in fruit , proprietress of a large number of fish ponds , and a land cultivator . 
She was fat and warm , yet she could use her hands well , and would herself carry out food to the laborers in the field . 
After work , came the recreations , dancing and playing in the greenwood , and the harvest home . 
'' She was a thorough housewife . 
After her a man stepped out of the coach . 
He is a painter , a master of colors , and is NAMED SEPTEMBER . 
The forest on his arrival has to change its colors , and how beautiful are those he chooses ! The woods glow with red , and gold , and brown . 
This great master painter can whistle like a blackbird . 
There he stood with his color pot in his hand , and that was the whole of his luggage . 
A landowner followed , who in the month for sowing seed attends to his ploughing and is fond of field sports . 
SQUIRE OCTOBER brought his dog and his gun with him , and had nuts in his game bag . 
Crack ! Crack ! '' He had a great deal of luggage , even a plough . 
He spoke of farming , but what he said could scarcely be heard for the coughing and sneezing of his neighbor . 
It WAS NOVEMBER , who coughed violently as he got out . 
He had a cold , but he said he thought it would leave him when he went out woodcutting , for he had to supply wood to the whole parish . 
He spent his evenings making skates , for he knew , he said , that in a few weeks they would be needed . 
At length the last passenger made her appearance , OLD MOTHER DECEMBER ! The dame was very aged , but her eyes glistened like two stars . 
She carried on her arm a flower pot , in which a little fir tree was growing . 
I shall sit by the fireplace , and bring a story book out of my pocket , and read aloud to all the little children . 
He will kiss every child in the room , yes , and all the little children who stand out in the street singing a carol about the Star of Bethlehem . 
'' Well , now the coach may drive away , '' said the sentry we will keep all the twelve months here with us . 
'' First let the twelve come to me , '' said the Captain on duty , one after another . 
The passports I will keep here , each of them for one month . 
When that has passed , I shall write the behavior of each stranger on his passport . 
JANUARY , have the goodness to come here . 
When a year has passed , I think I shall be able to tell you what the twelve passengers have brought to you , to me , and to all of us . 
Just now I do not know , and probably even they do not know themselves , for we live in strange times . 
Where is Lincoln ? '' asked one of the lawyers . 
'' As Lincoln joined them , the lawyers rallied him on his tender heartedness , and he said I could not have slept unless I had restored those little birds to their mother . 
He stopped to learn what was wrong , and was told that she was about to miss a long promised visit to Decatur because the wagon had not come for her . 
You needn't let that trouble you , '' was his cheering reply . 
Just come along with me and we shall make it all right . 
It looks as if it had been out through all last night's storm . 
How came you to forget , and leave it out to soak ? '' It was this way , Mr. Crawford , '' replied Abe . 
I dreamed about General Washington all night . 
I'm sorry , Mr. Crawford , and want to fix it up with you , if you can tell me how , for I have not got money to pay for it . 
'' Well , '' said Mr. Crawford , come and shuck corn three days , and the book 's yours . 
'' Had Mr. Crawford told young Abraham Lincoln that he had fallen heir to a fortune the boy could hardly have felt more elated . 
I'm going to fit myself for a profession . 
'' Why , what do you want to be , now ? '' asked Mrs. Crawford in surprise . 
Oh , I'll be President ! '' said Abe with a smile . 
You'd make a pretty President with all your tricks and jokes , now , wouldn't you ? '' said the farmer's wife . 
Oh , I'll study and get ready , '' replied the boy , and then maybe the chance will come . 
'' WHY LINCOLN WAS CALLED HONEST ABE'' BY NOAH BROOKS In managing the country store , as in everything that he undertook for others , Lincoln did his very best . 
He was honest , civil , ready to do anything that should encourage customers to come to the place , full of pleasantries , patient , and alert . 
There were bullies then , as now . 
This stranger was tall , his frame was gaunt and sinewy , his head powerful , with determined features overcast by a gentle melancholy . 
He listened with fixed attention to the exercises . 
His face expressed such genuine interest that the teacher , approaching him , suggested that he might have something to say to the children . 
The stranger accepted the invitation with evident pleasure . 
Coming forward , he began to speak and at once fascinated every child in the room . 
His language was beautiful yet simple , his tones were musical , and he spoke with deep feeling . 
The faces of the boys and girls drooped sadly as he uttered warnings , and then brightened with joy as he spoke cheerful words of promise . 
Once or twice he tried to close his remarks , but the children shouted Go on ! Oh ! do go on ! '' and he was forced to continue . 
At last he finished his talk and was leaving the room quietly when the teacher begged to know his name . 
Abra'm Lincoln , of Illinois , '' was the modest response . 
The witnesses were sure that Armstrong was guilty , and one of them declared that he had seen the fatal blow struck . 
It was late at night , he said , and the light of the full moon had made it possible for him to see the crime committed . 
They saw at once that on the night of the murder there was no moon at all . 
They were satisfied that the witness had told what was not true . 
Toward the close of the war , when a large part of Virginia had fallen into the possession of the Union army , the President called at General Pickett's Virginia home . 
The general's wife , with her baby on her arm , met him at the door . 
She herself has told the story for us . 
Is this George Pickett's home ? he asked . 
With all the courage and dignity I could muster , I replied Yes , and I am his wife , and this is his baby . 
The President ! I gasped . 
I had never seen him , but I knew the intense love and reverence with which my soldier always spoke of him . 
The stranger shook his head and replied No Abraham Lincoln , George's old friend . 
The baby pushed away from me and reached out his hands to Mr. Lincoln , who took him in his arms . 
As he did so an expression of rapt , almost divine tenderness and love lighted up the sad face . 
It was a look that I have never seen on any other face . 
The baby opened his mouth wide and insisted upon giving his father's friend a dewy kiss . 
As Mr. Lincoln gave the little one back to me he said Tell your father , the rascal , that I forgive him for the sake of your bright eyes . 
He delighted to advocate the cases of those whom he knew to be wronged , but he would not defend the cause of the guilty . 
If he discovered in the course of a trial that he was on the wrong side , he lost all interest , and ceased to make any exertion . 
Once , while engaged in a prosecution , he discovered that his client's cause was not a good one , and he refused to make the plea . 
His associate , who was less scrupulous , made the plea and obtained a decision in their favor . 
The fee was nine hundred dollars , half of which was tendered to Mr. Lincoln , but he refused to accept a single cent of it . 
His honesty was strongly illustrated by the way he kept his accounts with his law partner . 
Mr. Lincoln made the great speech of his famous senatorial campaign at Springfield , Illinois . 
The convention before which he spoke consisted of a thousand delegates together with the crowd that had gathered with them . 
His speech was carefully prepared . 
Every sentence was guarded and emphatic . 
It has since become famous as The Divided House'' speech . 
'' Mr. Herndon remarked that the sentiment was true , but suggested that it might not be GOOD POLICY to utter it at that time . 
Mr. Lincoln replied with great firmness No matter about the POLICY . 
It is TRUE , and the nation is entitled to it . 
The proposition has been true for six thousand years , and I will deliver it as it is written . 
A visitor in Washington once had an appointment to see Mr. Lincoln at five o'clock in the morning . 
The gentleman made a hasty toilet and presented himself at a quarter of five in the waiting room of the President . 
He asked the usher if he could see Mr. Lincoln . 
No , '' he replied . 
But I have an engagement to meet him this morning , '' answered the visitor . 
At what hour ? '' asked the usher . 
'' Well , sir , he will see you at five . 
'' The visitor waited patiently , walking to and fro for a few minutes , when he heard a voice as if in grave conversation . 
Who is talking in the next room ? '' he asked . 
To this people I owe all that I am . 
Here I have lived more than a quarter of a century here my children were born , and here one of them lies buried . 
I know not how soon I shall see you again . 
A duty devolves upon me which is , perhaps , greater than that which has devolved upon any other man since the days of Washington . 
He never would have succeeded except by the aid of Divine Providence , upon which he at all times relied . 
Again I bid you an affectionate farewell . 
SAINT VALENTINE The good Saint Valentine was a priest at Rome in the days of Claudius II . 
He suffered martyrdom on the th day of February , about the year . 
On these occasions , amidst a variety of pagan ceremonies , the names of young women were placed in a box , from which they were drawn by the men as chance directed . 
The pastors of the early Christian Church in Rome endeavored to do away with the pagan element in these feasts by substituting the names of saints for those of maidens . 
And as the Lupercalia began about the middle of February , the pastors appear to have chosen Saint Valentine's Day for the celebration of this new feast . 
So it seems that the custom of young men choosing maidens for valentines , or saints as patrons for the coming year , arose in this wise . 
He left about sixty of them . 
They were written during his confinement in the Tower of London , and are still to be seen among the royal papers in the British Museum . 
One of his valentines reads as follows Wilt thou be mine ? dear Love , reply Sweetly consent or else deny . 
Whisper softly , none shall know , Wilt thou be mine , Love ? aye or no ? Spite of Fortune , we may be Happy by one word from thee . 
Last Friday was Valentine's Day , and I'll tell you what I did the night before . 
We also wrote our lovers' names upon bits of paper , and rolled them up in clay and put them into water and the first that rose up was to be our valentine . 
But I am also this year my wife's valentine and it will cost me five pounds but that I must have laid out if we had not been valentines . 
And thus it came to pass There was a certain king who had three beautiful daughters . 
The two elder married princes of great renown but Psyche , the youngest , was so radiantly fair that no suitor seemed worthy of her . 
People thronged to see her pass through the city , and sang hymns in her praise , while strangers took her for the very goddess of beauty herself . 
This angered Venus , and she resolved to cast down her earthly rival . 
, and bade him sharpen his weapons . 
He is an archer more to be dreaded than Apollo , for Apollo's arrows take life , but Love's bring joy or sorrow for a whole life long . 
Come , Love , '' said Venus . 
There is a mortal maid who robs me of my honors in yonder city . 
Wound this precious Psyche , and let her fall in love with some churlish creature mean in the eyes of all men . 
'' Cupid made ready his weapons , and flew down to earth invisibly . 
, and wounded himself with his own shaft . 
Back to her dream the princess went , unshadowed by any thought of love . 
But Cupid , not so light of heart , returned to the heavens , saying not a word of what had passed . 
Venus waited long then , seeing that Psyche's heart had somehow escaped love , she sent a spell upon the maiden . 
Said the voice The Princess Psyche shall never wed a mortal . 
She shall be given to one who waits for her on yonder mountain he overcomes gods and men . 
'' At this terrible sentence the poor parents were half distraught , and the people gave themselves up to grief at the fate in store for their beloved princess . 
Psyche alone bowed to her destiny . 
We have angered Venus unwittingly , '' she said , and all for sake of me , heedless maiden that I am ! Give me up , therefore , dear father and mother . 
If I atone , it may be that the city will prosper once more . 
Then , indeed , she wept , but a sudden breeze drew near , dried her tears , and caressed her hair , seeming to murmur comfort . 
There he left her , resting on a bank of hospitable grass , and there the princess fell asleep . 
When she awoke , it was near sunset . 
She looked about her for some sign of the monster's approach she wondered , then , if her grievous trial had been but a dream . 
Near by she saw a sheltering forest , whose young trees seemed to beckon as one maid beckons to another and eager for the protection of the dryads , she went thither . 
The call of running waters drew her farther and farther , till she came out upon an open place , where there was a wide pool . 
A fountain fluttered gladly in the midst of it , and beyond there stretched a white palace wonderful to see . 
Coaxed by the bright promise of the place , she drew near , and , seeing no one , entered softly . 
It was all kinglier than her father's home , and as she stood in wonder and awe , soft airs stirred about her . 
Little by little the silence grew murmurous like the woods , and one voice , sweeter than the rest , took words . 
All that you see is yours , gentle high princess , '' it said . 
Fear nothing only command us , for we are here to serve you . 
'' Full of amazement and delight , Psyche followed the voice from hall to hall , and through the lordly rooms , beautiful with everything that could delight a young princess . 
No pleasant thing was lacking . 
Surely he whom the Oracle had called her husband was no monster , but some beneficent power , invisible like all the rest . 
When daylight waned he came , and his voice , the beautiful voice of a god , inspired her to trust her strange destiny and to look and long for his return . 
Often she begged him to stay with her through the day , that she might see his face but this he would not grant . 
Never doubt me , dearest Psyche , '' said he . 
Perhaps you would fear if you saw me , and love is all I ask . 
There is a necessity that keeps me hidden now . 
One night she told her husband of these regrets , and begged that her sisters at least might come to see her . 
He sighed , but did not refuse . 
Zephyr shall bring them hither , '' said he . 
And on the following morning , swift as a bird , the West Wind came over the crest of the high mountain and down into the enchanted valley , bearing her two sisters . 
They greeted Psyche with joy and amazement , hardly knowing how they had come hither . 
But when this fairest of the sisters led them through her palace and showed them all the treasures that were hers , envy grew in their hearts and choked their old love . 
Even while they sat at feast with her , they grew more and more bitter and hoping to find some little flaw in her good fortune , they asked a thousand questions . 
Where is your husband ? '' said they . 
And why is he not here with you ? '' Ah , '' stammered Psyche . 
All the day long he is gone , hunting upon the mountains . 
'' But what does he look like ? '' they asked and Psyche could find no answer . 
When they learned that she had never seen him , they laughed her faith to scorn . 
Poor Psyche , '' they said . 
You are walking in a dream . 
Wake , before it is too late . 
You can put him to death easily , and all his riches will be yours and ours . 
'' Psyche heard this wicked plan with horror . 
Nevertheless , after her sisters were gone , she brooded over what they had said , not seeing their evil intent and she came to find some wisdom in their words . 
Towards midnight , when her husband was fast asleep , up she rose , hardly daring to breathe and coming softly to his side , she uncovered the lamp to see some horror . 
But there the youngest of the gods lay sleeping , most beautiful , most irresistible of all immortals . 
His hair shone golden as the sun , his face was radiant as dear Springtime , and from his shoulders sprang two rainbow wings . 
Poor Psyche was overcome with self reproach . 
As she leaned towards him , filled with worship , her trembling hands held the lamp ill , and some burning oil fell upon Love's shoulder and awakened him . 
He opened his eyes , to see at once his bride and the dark suspicion in her heart . 
O doubting Psyche ! '' he exclaimed with sudden grief , and then he flew away , out of the window . 
Wild with sorrow , Psyche tried to follow , but she fell to the ground instead . 
When she recovered her senses , she stared about her . 
She was alone , and the place was beautiful no longer . 
Garden and palace had vanished with Love . 
THE TRIAL OF PSYCHE Over mountains and valleys Psyche journeyed alone until she came to the city where her two envious sisters lived with the princes whom they had married . 
She stayed with them only long enough to tell the story of her unbelief and its penalty . 
Then she set out again to search for Love . 
As she wandered one day , travel worn but not hopeless , she saw a lofty palace on a hill near by , and she turned her steps thither . 
Without delay , she set to work binding the sheaves together and gathering the scattered ears of corn in seemly wise , as a princess would wish to see them . 
Dear Psyche , '' said Demeter , you are worthy of happiness , and you may find it yet . 
But since you have displeased Venus , go to her and ask her favor . 
Perhaps your patience will win her pardon . 
'' These motherly words gave Psyche heart , and she reverently took leave of the goddess and set out for the temple of Venus . 
Most humbly she offered up her prayer , but Venus could not look at her earthly beauty without anger . 
Vain girl , '' said she , perhaps you have come to make amends for the wound you dealt your husband you shall do so . 
, and bade her separate them all and have them ready in seemly fashion by night . 
Heracles would have been helpless before such a vexatious task and poor Psyche , left alone in this desert of grain , had not courage to begin . 
The zealous little creatures worked in swarms , with such industry over the work they like best , that , when Venus came at night , she found the task completed . 
Deceitful girl , '' she cried , shaking the roses out of her hair with impatience , this is my son's work , not yours . 
But he will soon forget you . 
Eat this black bread if you are hungry , and refresh your dull mind with sleep . 
To morrow you will need more wit . 
'' Psyche wondered what new misfortune could be in store for her . 
Bring me a golden lock from every one of them , or you must go your ways and never come back again . 
'' This seemed not difficult , and Psyche obediently bade the goddess farewell , and stepped into the water , ready to wade across . 
This flock has not the gentle ways of sheep . 
'' Thanking the water creatures , Psyche sat down to rest near them , and when the time came , she crossed in safety and followed their counsel . 
By twilight she returned to Venus with her arms full of shining fleece . 
No mortal wit did this , '' said Venus angrily . 
'' It needed not the last taunt to sadden Psyche . 
But even as she hastened towards the descent , another friendly voice detained her . 
Stay , Psyche , I know your grief . 
Only give ear and you shall learn a safe way through all these trials . 
'' And the voice went on to tell her how one might avoid all the dangers of Hades and come out unscathed . 
And be sure , '' added the voice , when Proserpina has returned the box , not to open it , ever much you may long to do so . 
Surely Love has not forgotten me , '' she said . 
But it happened that Love himself was recovered from his wound , and he had secretly fled from his chamber to seek out and rescue Psyche . 
He found her lying by the wayside he gathered into the casket what remained of the philter , and awoke his beloved . 
Take comfort , '' he said , smiling . 
Return to our mother and do her bidding till I come again . 
They heard his story and their hearts were touched . 
Zeus himself coaxed Venus with kind words till at last she relented , and remembered that anger hurt her beauty , and smiled once more . 
All the younger gods were for welcoming Psyche at once , and Hermes was sent to bring her hither . 
The maiden came , a shy newcomer among those bright creatures . 
She took the cup that Hebe held out to her , drank the divine ambrosia , and became immortal . 
Light came to her face like moonrise , two radiant wings sprang from her shoulders and even as a butterfly bursts from its dull cocoon , so the human Psyche blossomed into immortality . 
Love took her by the hand , and they were never parted any more . 
I. THE CHERRY TREE When George was about six years old , he was made the wealthy master of a hatchet of which , like most little boys , he was extremely fond . 
He went about chopping everything that came his way . 
He tried the edge of his hatchet on the trunk of the tree and barked it so that it died . 
Some time after this , his father discovered what had happened to his favorite tree . 
He came into the house in great anger , and demanded to know who the mischievous person was who had cut away the bark . 
Nobody could tell him anything about it . 
Just then George , with his little hatchet , came into the room . 
'' Poor George could not answer , but hanging down his head looked quite confused , while with his little , naked , bare feet he scratched in the soft ground . 
Now , look up , my son , '' continued his father , and see how the blessed God has richly provided us with these trees loaded with the finest fruit . 
See how abundant is the harvest . 
Some of the trees are bending beneath their burdens , while the ground is covered with mellow apples , more than you could eat , my son , in all your lifetime . 
'' George looked in silence on the orchard , he marked the busy , humming bees , and heard the gay notes of the birds fluttering from tree to tree . 
His eyes filled with tears and he answered softly Truly , father , I never will be selfish any more . 
THE GARDEN BED One day Mr. Washington went into the garden and dug a little bed of earth and prepared it for seed . 
He then took a stick and traced on the bed George's name in full . 
After this he strewed the tracing thickly with seeds , and smoothed all over nicely with his roller . 
This garden bed he purposely prepared close to a gooseberry walk . 
The bushes were hung with the ripe fruit , and he knew that George would visit them every morning . 
Not many days had passed away when one morning George came running into the house , breathless with excitement , and his eyes shining with happiness . 
Come here ! father , come here ! '' he cried . 
What's the matter , my son ? '' asked his father . 
O come , father , '' answered George , and I'll show you such a sight as you have never seen in all your lifetime . 
'' Mr. Washington gave the boy his hand , which he seized with great eagerness . 
His father had taken a great deal of pride in his blooded horses , and his mother afterward took pains to keep the stock pure . 
She had several young horses that had not yet been broken , and one of them in particular , a sorrel , was extremely spirited . 
No one had been able to do anything with it , and it was pronounced thoroughly vicious as people are apt to pronounce horses which they have not learned to master . 
George was determined to ride this colt , and told his companions that if they would help him catch it , he would ride and tame it . 
Early in the morning they set out for the pasture , where the boys managed to surround the sorrel , and then to put a bit into its mouth . 
Washington sprang upon its back , the boys dropped the bridle , and away flew the angry animal . 
Its rider at once began to command . 
The horse resisted , backing about the field , rearing and plunging . 
The boys became thoroughly alarmed , but Washington kept his seat , never once losing his self control or his mastery of the colt . 
The struggle was a sharp one when suddenly , as if determined to rid itself of its rider , the creature leaped into the air with a tremendous bound . 
The violence burst a blood vessel , and the noble horse fell dead . 
Pray , young gentlemen , '' said she , have you seen my blooded colts in your rambles ? I hope they are well taken care of . 
My favorite , I am told , is as large as his sire . 
'' The boys looked at one another , and no one liked to speak . 
Of course the mother repeated her question . 
The sorrel is dead , madam , '' said her son , I killed him . 
'' And then he told the whole story . 
'' WASHINGTON THE ATHLETE BY ALBERT F. BLAISDELL AND FRANCIS E. BALL Many stories are told of the mighty power of Washington's right arm . 
It is said that he once threw a stone from the bed of the stream to the top of the Natural Bridge , in Virginia . 
Many strong men have since tried the same feat , but have never cleared the water . 
Peale , who was called the soldier artist , was once visiting Washington at Mount Vernon . 
One day , he tells us , some athletic young men were pitching the iron bar in the presence of their host . 
Suddenly , without taking off his coat , Washington grasped the bar and hurled it , with little effort , much farther than any of them had done . 
'' At another time , Washington witnessed a wrestling match . 
The champion of the day challenged him , in sport , to wrestle . 
Washington did not stop to take off his coat , but grasped the strong man of Virginia . 
Washington as soon as Fort Duquesne had fallen hurried home , resigned his commission , and was married . 
The sunshine and glitter of the wedding day must have appeared to Washington deeply appropriate , for he certainly seemed to have all that heart of man could desire . 
Just twenty seven , in the first flush of young manhood , keen of sense and yet wise in experience , life must have looked very fair and smiling . 
He had left the army with a well earned fame , and had come home to take the wife of his choice , and enjoy the good will and respect of all men . 
'' WASHINGTON AT YORKTOWN BY HENRY CABOT LODGE During the assault Washington stood in an embrasure of the grand battery , watching the advance of the men . 
He was always given to exposing himself recklessly when there was fighting to be done , but not when he was only an observer . 
This night , however , he was much exposed to the enemy's fire . 
One of his aides , anxious and disturbed for his safety , told him that the place was perilous . 
If you think so , '' was the quiet answer , you are at liberty to step back . 
'' The moment was too exciting , too fraught with meaning , to think of peril . 
The old fighting spirit of Braddock's field was unchained for the last time . 
He had waited long , and worked hard , and his whole soul went out as he watched the troops cross the abatis and scale the works . 
He could have no thought of danger then , and when all was over , he turned to Knox and said The work is done , and well done . 
A LESSON OF FAITH BY MRS . 
See these little eggs , '' continued the butterfly I do not know how long it will be before they come to life , and I feel very sick . 
You must give them early dew , and honey from the flowers , and you must let them fly about only a little way at first . 
Dear me ! it is a sad pity that you cannot fly yourself . 
Oh , how dizzy I am ! Caterpillar ! you will remember about the food '' And with these words the butterfiy drooped her wings and died . 
The green caterpillar , who had not had the opportunity of even saying yes'' or no'' to the request , was left standing alone by the side of the butterfly's eggs . 
A pretty nurse she has chosen , indeed , poor lady ! '' exclaimed she , and a pretty business I have in hand . 
But two heads are better than one , '' said she I will consult some wise animal on the matter . 
Now in the neighboring cornfield there lived a lark , and the caterpillar sent a message to him , begging him to come and talk to her . 
When he came she told him all her difficulties , and asked him how she was to feed and rear the little butterfly creatures . 
Perhaps you will be able to inquire and learn something about it the next time you go up high , '' said the caterpillar timidly . 
So she began to walk round the butterfly's eggs , nibbling a bit of the cabbage leaf now and then as she moved along . 
What a time the lark has been gone ! '' she cried at last . 
I wonder where he is just now . 
He must have flown higher than usual this time . 
'' And the green caterpillar took another turn round the butterfly's eggs . 
At last the lark's voice began to be heard again . 
The caterpillar almost jumped for joy , and it was not long before she saw her friend descend with hushed note to the cabbage bed . 
Well , then , first of all , I will tell you what those little creatures are to eat'' and the lark nodded his head toward the eggs . 
What do you think it is to be ? Guess ! '' Dew and honey out of the flowers , I am afraid ! '' sighed the caterpillar . 
No such thing , my good friend , '' cried the lark exultantly you are to feed them with cabbage leaves ! '' Never ! '' said the caterpillar indignantly . 
It was their mother's last request that I should feed them on dew and honey . 
'' Their mother knew nothing about the matter , '' answered the lark but why do you ask me , and then disbelieve what I say ? You have neither faith nor trust . 
'' Oh , I believe everything I am told , '' said the caterpillar . 
Nay , but you do not , '' replied the lark . 
Why , caterpillar , what do you think those little eggs will turn out to be ? '' Butterflies , to be sure , '' said the caterpillar . 
CATERPILLARS ! '' sang the lark and you'll find it out in time . 
'' And the lark flew away . 
Perhaps he went up TOO high this time . 
How I wonder what he sees , and what he does up yonder ! '' I would tell you if you would believe me , '' sang the lark , descending once more . 
I believe everything I am told , '' answered the caterpillar . 
Then I'll tell you something else , '' cried the lark . 
YOU WILL ONE DAY BE A BUTTERFLY YOURSELF ! '' Wretched bird , '' exclaimed the caterpillar , you are making fun of me . 
You are now cruel as well as foolish ! Go away ! I will ask your advice no more . 
'' I told you you would not believe me , '' cried the lark . 
I believe everything I am told , '' persisted the caterpillar , everything that it is REASONABLE to believe . 
When I hover over the cornfields , or go up into the depths of the sky , I see so many wonderful things that I know there must be more . 
O caterpillar ! it is because you CRAWL , and never get beyond your cabbage leaf , that you call anything IMPOSSIBLE . 
'' Nonsense , '' shouted the caterpillar , I know what's possible and what's impossible . 
'' What do you mean by that ? '' asked the caterpillar . 
ON FAITH , '' answered the lark . 
How am I to learn faith ? '' asked the caterpillar . 
At that moment she felt something at her side . 
She looked round , eight or ten little green caterpillars were moving about , and had already made a hole in the cabbage leaf . 
They had broken from the butterfly's eggs ! Shame and amazement filled the green caterpillar's heart , but joy soon followed . 
For as the first wonder was possible , the second might be so too . 
Teach me your lesson , lark , '' she cried . 
And the lark sang to her of the wonders of the earth below and of the heaven above . 
And the caterpillar talked all the rest of her life of the time when she should become a butterfly . 
But no one believed her . 
'' A CHILD'S DREAM OF A STAR BY CHARLES DICKENS There was once a child , and he strolled about a good deal , and thought of a number of things . 
He had a sister , who was a child , too , and his constant companion . 
These two used to wonder all day long . 
'' There was one clear , shining star that used to come out in the sky before the rest , near the church spire , above the graves . 
It was larger and more beautiful , they thought , than all the others , and every night they watched for it , standing hand in hand at a window . 
Whoever saw it first cried out I see the star ! '' And often they cried out both together , knowing so well when it would rise , and where . 
And the star , opening , showed him a great world of light , where many more such angels waited to receive them . 
But there were many angels who did not go with them , and among them one he knew . 
The patient face , that once had lain upon the bed , was glorified and radiant , but his heart found out his sister among all the host . 
Said his sister's angel to the leader Is my brother come ? '' And he said Not that one , but another . 
He grew to be a young man , and was busy at his books , when an old servant came to him and said Thy mother is no more . 
I bring her blessing on her darling son . 
'' Again at night he saw the star , and all that former company . 
And he stretched out his arms and cried O mother , sister , and brother , I am here ! Take me ! '' And they answered him Not yet . 
'' And the star was shining . 
Said his sister's angel to the leader Is my brother come ? '' And he said Nay , but his maiden daughter . 
Thus the child came to be an old man , and his once smooth face was wrinkled , and his steps were slow and feeble , and his back was bent . 
'' And he said I am . 
My age is falling from me like a garment , and I move towards the star as a child . 
Once there reigned a queen , in whose garden were found the most glorious flowers at all seasons and from all the lands of the world . 
They grew against the garden walls , wound themselves around the pillars and wind frames , and crept through the windows into the rooms , and all along the ceilings in the halls . 
And the roses were of many colors , and of every fragrance and form . 
But care and sorrow dwelt in those halls . 
The queen lay upon a sick bed , and the doctors said she must die . 
There is still one thing that can save her , '' said the wise man . 
Bring her the loveliest rose in the world , the rose that is the symbol of the purest , the brightest love . 
If that is held before her eyes ere they close , she will not die . 
'' Then old and young came from every side with roses , the loveliest that bloomed in each garden , but they were not of the right sort . 
The flower was to be plucked from the Garden of Love . 
But they have not named the right flower , '' said the wise man . 
They have not pointed out the place where it blooms in its splendor . 
It is not the rose that springs from the hearts of youthful lovers , though this rose will ever be fragrant in song . 
Nor is it the wondrous flower to which man devotes many a sleepless night and much of his fresh life , the magic flower of science . 
'' But I know where it blooms , '' said a happy mother , who came with her pretty child to the bedside of the dying queen . 
I know where the loveliest rose of love may be found . 
It springs in the blooming cheeks of my sweet child , when , waking from sleep , it opens its eyes and smiles tenderly at me . 
'' Lovely is this rose , but there is a lovelier still , '' said the wise man . 
I have seen the loveliest , purest rose that blooms , '' said a woman . 
I saw it on the cheeks of the queen . 
She had taken off her golden crown . 
And in the long , dreary night she carried her sick child in her arms . 
She wept , kissed it , and prayed for her child . 
'' Holy and wonderful is the white rose of a mother's grief , '' answered the wise man , but it is not the one we seek . 
'' The loveliest rose in the world I saw at the altar of the Lord , '' said the good Bishop , the young maidens went to the Lord's Table . 
Roses were blushing and pale roses shining on their fresh cheeks . 
A young girl stood there . 
She looked with all the love and purity of her spirit up to heaven . 
That was the expression of the highest and purest love . 
'' May she be blessed , '' said the wise man , but not one of you has yet named the loveliest rose in the world . 
'' Then there came into the room a child , the queen's little son . 
Mother , '' cried the boy , only hear what I have read . 
'' And the child sat by the bedside and read from the Book of Him who suffered death upon the cross to save men , and even those who were not yet born . 
Greater love there is not . 
I see it ! '' she said , he who beholds this , the loveliest rose on earth , shall never die . 
From For the Children's Hour , by Carolyn Sherwin Bailey and Clara M. Lewis . 
Copyright by the Milton Bradley Company . 
The snow lay deep , for it was winter time . 
The winter winds blew cold , but there was one house where all was snug and warm . 
And in the house lay a little flower in its bulb it lay , under the earth and the snow . 
One day the rain fell and it trickled through the ice and snow down into the ground . 
And presently a sunbeam , pointed and slender , pierced down through the earth , and tapped on the bulb . 
Come in , '' said the flower . 
I can't do that , '' said the sunbeam I'm not strong enough to lift the latch . 
I shall be stronger when springtime comes . 
'' When will it be spring ? '' asked the flower of every little sunbeam that rapped on its door . 
But for a long time it was winter . 
The ground was still covered with snow , and every night there was ice in the water . 
The flower grew quite tired of waiting . 
How long it is ! '' it said . 
I must stretch myself and rise up a little . 
I must lift the latch , and look out , and say good morning' to the spring . 
'' So the flower pushed and pushed . 
It was weather to freeze it to pieces , such a delicate little flower , but it was stronger than any one knew . 
From Deutsches Drittes Lesebuch , by W. H. Weick and C. Grebner . 
Copyright , , by Van Antwerp , Bragg Co . 
American Book Company , publishers . 
There were once three little butterfly brothers , one white , one red , and one yellow . 
They played in the sunshine , and danced among the flowers in the garden , and they never grew tired because they were so happy . 
One day there came a heavy rain , and it wet their wings . 
They flew away home , but when they got there they found the door locked and the key gone . 
So they had to stay out of doors in the rain , and they grew wetter and wetter . 
'' But the red and yellow butterflies said If our white brother may not find shelter in your flowercup , why , then , we'll stay outside in the rain with him . 
'' Then the little white butterfly said If you won't receive my red and yellow brothers , why , then , I'll stay out in the rain with them . 
We would rather be wet than be parted . 
'' So the three little butterfiies flew away . 
So he pushed his face through the clouds , and chased away the rain , and shone brightly on the garden . 
He dried the wings of the three little butterflies , and warmed their bodies . 
They ceased to sorrow , and danced among the flowers till evening , then they flew away home , and found the door wide open . 
And he begged flour of the primrose , and sugar of the violet , and butter of the buttercup . 
He shook dewdrops from the cowslip into the cup of the harebell , spread out a large lime leaf , set his breakfast upon it , and feasted daintily . 
And he invited a humming bee and a gay butterfly to partake of his feast , but his favorite guest was a blue dragon fly . 
The bee murmured a good deal about his riches , and the butterfly told his adventures . 
Such talk delighted the child , and his breakfast was the sweeter to him , and the sunshine on leaf and flower seemed more bright and cheering . 
Her slender and burnished body , more brightly and deeply blue than the deep blue sky , glistened in the sunbeam . 
Her net like wings laughed at the flowers because they could not fly , but must stand still and abide the wind and rain . 
The dragon fly sipped a little of the child's clear dewdrops and blue violet honey , and then whispered her winged words . 
But at last as all was still , he opened his eyes and looked around for his dear guest , but she was flown far away . 
He could not bear to sit there any longer alone , and he rose and went to the gurgling brook . 
Then the child began to talk to the little waves and asked them whence they came . 
A long time ago , '' said the water drop , I lived with my countless sisters in the great Ocean , in peace and unity . 
We had all sorts of pastimes . 
Sometimes we mounted up high into the air , and peeped at the stars . 
Then we sank plump down deep below , and looked how the coral builders work till they are tired , that they may reach the light of day at last . 
But I was conceited , and thought myself much better than my sisters . 
But I had not ascended far when the sunbeam shook me off , and , in spite of all I could say or do , let me fall into a dark cloud . 
At last it was pitch dark and I could neither see nor hear anything . 
Now will I run back to my sisters in the Ocean , and there wait patiently till I am called to something better . 
An old man was sitting in his lodge , by the side of a frozen stream . 
It was the end of winter , the air was not so cold , and his fire was nearly out . 
He was old and alone . 
His locks were white with age , and he trembled in every joint . 
Day after day passed , and he heard nothing but the sound of the storm sweeping before it the new fallen snow . 
One day while his fire was dying , a handsome young man approached and entered the lodge . 
His cheeks were red , his eyes sparkled . 
He walked with a quick , light step . 
His forehead was bound with a wreath of sweet grass , and he carried a bunch of fragrant flowers in his hand . 
Ah , my son , '' said the old man , I am happy to see you . 
Come in ! Tell me your adventures , and what strange lands you have seen . 
I will tell you of my wonderful deeds , and what I can perform . 
You shall do the same , and we will amuse each other . 
'' The old man then drew from a bag a curiously wrought pipe . 
He filled it with mild tobacco , and handed it to his guest . 
They each smoked from the pipe and then began their stories . 
I am Peboan , the Spirit of Winter , '' said the old man . 
I blow my breath , and the streams stand still . 
The water becomes stiff and hard as clear stone . 
'' I am Seegwun , the Spirit of Spring , '' answered the youth . 
I breathe , and flowers spring up in the meadows and woods . 
'' I shake my locks , '' said the old man , and snow covers the land . 
The leaves fall from the trees , and my breath blows them away . 
The birds fly to a distant land , and the animals hide themselves from the cold . 
'' I shake my ringlets , '' said the young man , and warm showers of soft rain fall upon the earth . 
The flowers lift their heads from the ground , the grass grows thick and green . 
My voice recalls the birds , and they come flying joyfully from the Southland . 
The warmth of my breath unbinds the streams , and they sing the songs of summer . 
Music fills the groves where ever I walk , and all nature rejoices . 
'' And while they were talking thus a wonderful change took place . 
The sun began to rise . 
A gentle warmth stole over the place . 
Peboan , the Spirit of Winter , became silent . 
His head drooped , and the snow outside the lodge melted away . 
Seegwun , the Spirit of Spring , grew more radiant , and rose joyfully to his feet . 
The robin and the bluebird began to sing on the top of the lodge . 
The stream began to murmur at the door , and the fragrance of opening flowers came softly on the breeze . 
The lodge faded away , and Peboan sank down and dissolved into tiny streams of water , that vanished under the brown leaves of the forest . 
Thus the Spirit of Winter departed , and where he had melted away , there the Indian children gathered the first blossoms , fragrant and delicately pink , the modest Spring Beauty . 
THE FAIRY TULIPS ENGLISH FOLK TALE Once upon a time there was a good old woman who lived in a little house . 
She had in her garden a bed of beautiful striped tulips . 
One night she was wakened by the sounds of sweet singing and of babies laughing . 
She looked out at the window . 
The sounds seemed to come from the tulip bed , but she could see nothing . 
The next morning she walked among her flowers , but there were no signs of any one having been there the night before . 
On the following night she was again wakened by sweet singing and babies laughing . 
She rose and stole softly through her garden . 
The moon was shining brightly on the tulip bed , and the flowers were swaying to and fro . 
The good old woman stole quietly back to her house , and from that time on she never picked a tulip , nor did she allow her neighbors to touch the flowers . 
The tulips grew daily brighter in color and larger in size , and they gave out a delicious perfume like that of roses . 
They began , too , to bloom all the year round . 
And every night the little Fairy mothers caressed their babies and rocked them to sleep in the flower cups . 
But the parsley withered , and so did all the other plants in the garden , and from that time nothing would grow there . 
The Canyon of Pinon Pines has a pleasant outlook and lies open to the sun . 
Low down , the ravine broadens out to inclose a meadow the width of a lark's flight , blossomy and wet and good . 
That was not very far , for it was a slender stream . 
It had its source on the high crests and hollows of the near by mountain , in the snow banks that melted and seeped downward through the rocks . 
Pray , what good will that do you ? '' said the pines . 
If you get to the town , they will turn you into an irrigating ditch , and set you to watering crops . 
'' As to that , '' said the stream , if I once get started I will not stop at the town . 
'' Then it would fret between its banks until the spangled frills of the mimulus were all tattered with its spray . 
Often at the end of the summer it was worn quite thin and small with running , and not able to do more than reach the meadow . 
But some day , '' it whispered to the stones , I shall run quite away . 
'' If the stream had been inclined for it , there was no lack of good company on its own borders . 
Birds nested in the willows , rabbits came to drink one summer a bobcat made its lair up the bank opposite the brown birches , and often the deer fed in the meadow . 
In the spring of one year two old men came up into the Canyon of Pinon Pines . 
They had been miners and partners together for many years . 
They had grown rich and grown poor , and had seen many hard places and strange times . 
It was a day when the creek ran clear and the south wind smelled of the earth . 
Wild bees began to whine among the willows , and the meadow bloomed over with poppy breasted larks . 
Then said one of the old men Here is good meadow and water enough let us build a house and grow trees . 
We are too old to dig in the mines . 
So they brought their possessions , and they built a house by the water border and planted trees . 
One of the men was all for an orchard but the other preferred vegetables . 
They were very happy for three years . 
By this time the stream had become so interested it had almost forgotten about running away . 
In fact , '' said the stream , I am being made into an irrigating ditch before I have had my fling in the world . 
I really must make a start . 
All that winter the two men brought water for drinking from a spring , and looked for the stream to come back . 
In the spring they hoped still , for that was the season they looked for the orchard to bear . 
But no fruit grew on the trees , and the seeds they planted shriveled in the earth . 
So by the end of summer , when they understood that the water would not come back at all , they went sadly away . 
Now the Creek of Pinon Pines did not have a happy time . 
It went out in the world on the wings of the storm , and was very much tossed about and mixed up with other waters , lost and bewildered . 
After all , home is best , '' said the little stream to itself , and ran about in its choked channels looking for old friends . 
The willows were there , but grown shabby and dying at the top the birches were quite dead , and there was only rubbish where the white clematis had been . 
Even the rabbits had gone away . 
The little stream ran whimpering in the meadow , fumbling at the ruined ditches to comfort the fruit trees which were not quite dead . 
It was very dull in those days living in the Canyon of Pinon Pines . 
But it is really my own fault , '' said the stream . 
So it went on repairing the borders as best it could . 
About the time the white clematis had come back to hide the ruin of the brown birches , a young man came and camped with his wife and child in the meadow . 
They were looking for a place to make a home . 
What a charming place ! '' said the young wife just the right distance from town , and a stream all to ourselves . 
And look , there are fruit trees already planted . 
Do let us decide to stay ! '' Then she took off the child's shoes and stockings to let it play in the stream . 
The water curled all about the bare feet and gurgled delightedly . 
Ah , do stay , '' begged the happy water . 
I can be such a help to you , for I know how a garden should be irrigated in the best manner . 
'' The child laughed , and stamped the water up to his bare knees . 
The young wife watched anxiously while her husband walked up and down the stream border and examined the fruit trees . 
It is a delightful place , '' he said , and the soil is rich , but I am afraid the water cannot be depended upon . 
There are signs of a great drought within the last two or three years . 
Look , there is a clump of birches in the very path of the stream , but all dead and the largest limbs of the fruit trees have died . 
In this country one must be able to make sure of the water supply . 
I suppose the people who planted them must have abandoned the place when the stream went dry . 
We must go on farther . 
'' So they took their goods and the child and went on farther . 
Ah , well , '' said the stream , that is what is to be expected when has a reputation for neglecting one's duty . 
But I wish they had stayed . 
That baby and I understood each other . 
'' It had made up its mind not to run away again , though it could not be expected to be quite cheerful after all that had happened . 
If you go to the Canyon of Pinon Pines you will notice that the stream , where it goes brokenly about the meadow , has a mournful sound . 
The little Elves of Darkness , so says the old Iroquois grandmother , were wise and mysterious . 
They dwelt under the earth , where were deep forests and broad plains . 
There they kept captive all the evil things that wished to injure human beings , the venomous reptiles , the wicked spiders , and the fearful monsters . 
Sometimes one of these evil creatures escaped and rushed upward to the bright , pure air , and spread its poisonous breath over the living things of the upper world . 
And under many a tree , where the blades of grass had refused to grow , the Little People danced until rings of green sprang up beneath their feet . 
And to the festival came the Elves of Light , among whom were Tree Elves , Flower Elves , and Fruit Elves . 
They too danced and made merry . 
For in the springtime these Little People of the Light hid in sheltered places . 
Then the little Elves wandered over the fields and through the woods , bidding all growing things to look upon the sun . 
The Tree Elves tended the trees , unfolding their leaves , and feeding their roots with sap from the earth . 
The Flower Elves unwrapped the baby buds , and tinted the petals of the opening flowers , and played with the bees and the butterflies . 
But the busiest of all were the Fruit Elves . 
Their greatest care in the spring was the strawberry plant . 
When the ground softened from the frost , the Fruit Elves loosened the earth around each strawberry root , that its shoots might push through to the light . 
They shaped the plant's leaves , and turned its blossoms toward the warm rays of the sun . 
They trained its runners , and assisted the timid fruit to form . 
They painted the luscious berry , and bade it ripen . 
And when the first strawberries blushed on the vines , these guardian Elves protected them from the evil insects that had escaped from the world of darkness underground . 
And there it lay until a tiny sunbeam pierced the damp mould , and finding the little vine carried it back to its sunny fields . 
And ever since then the strawberry plant has lived and thrived in the fields and woods . 
But the Fruit Elves , fearing lest the Evil One should one day steal the vine again , watch day and night over their favorite . 
And when the strawberries ripen they give the juicy , fragrant fruit to the Iroquois children as they gather the spring flowers in the woods . 
At first there were no canyons , but only the broad , open prairie . 
'' And again he spoke to the birds and again they carried all the seeds and strewed them far and wide . 
'' Then the Master spoke to the Lightning , and with one swift blow the Lightning cleft the Prairie to the heart . 
And the Prairie rocked and groaned in agony , and for many a day moaned bitterly over its black , jagged , gaping wound . 
But a little river poured its waters through the cleft , and carried down deep , black mould , and once more the birds carried seeds and strewed them in the canyon . 
There was once a Nymph named Clytie , who gazed ever at Apollo as he drove his sun chariot through the heavens . 
She watched him as he rose in the east attended by the rosy fingered Dawn and the dancing Hours . 
She gazed as he ascended the heavens , urging his steeds still higher in the fierce heat of the noonday . 
She looked with wonder as at evening he guided his steeds downward to their many colored pastures under the western sky , where they fed all night on ambrosia . 
He had no thought for her , but he shed his brightest beams upon her sister the white Nymph Leucothoe . 
And when Clytie perceived this she was filled with envy and grief . 
Night and day she sat on the bare ground weeping . 
And her limbs became rooted to the ground . 
Green leaves enfolded her body . 
Her beautiful face was concealed by tiny flowers , violet colored and sweet with perfume . 
In vain were her sorrow and tears , for Apollo regarded her not . 
And so through the ages has the Nymph turned her dew washed face toward the heavens , and men no longer call her Clytie , but the sun flower , heliotrope . 
The sun god threw aside his lyre , and became the daily comrade of Hyacinthus . 
Often they played games , or climbed the rugged mountain ridges . 
Together they followed the chase or fished in the quiet and shadowy pools and the sun god , unmindful of his dignity , carried the lad's nets and held his dogs . 
It happened on a day that the two friends stripped off their garments , rubbed the juice of the olive upon their bodies , and engaged in throwing the quoit . 
First Apollo poised it and tossed it far . 
It cleaved the air with its weight and fell heavily to earth . 
Ah ! then , pale and fearful , the sun god hastened to the side of his fallen friend . 
He bore up the lad's sinking limbs and strove to stanch his wound with healing herbs . 
All in vain ! Alas ! the wound would not close . 
And as violets and lilies , when their stems are crushed , hang their languid blossoms on their stalks and wither away , so did Hyacinthus droop his beautiful head and die . 
Long ago , in the ancient world , there was born to the blue eyed Nymph Liriope , a beautiful boy , whom she called Narcissus . 
An oracle foretold at his birth that he should be happy and live to a good old age if he never saw himself . 
'' As this prophecy seemed ridiculous his mother soon forgot all about it . 
Narcissus grew to be a stately , handsome youth . 
His limbs were firm and straight . 
Curls clustered about his white brow , and his eyes shone like two stars . 
He loved to wander among the meadow flowers and in the pathless woodland . 
But he disdained his playmates , and would not listen to their entreaties to join in their games . 
His heart was cold , and in it was neither hate nor love . 
He lived indifferent to youth or maid , to friend or foe . 
Now , in the forest near by dwelt a Nymph named Echo . 
She had been a handmaiden of the goddess Juno . 
But though the Nymph was beautiful of face , she was not loved . 
She had a noisy tongue . 
She told lies and whispered slanders , and encouraged the other Nymphs in many misdoings . 
So Echo dwelt in the woods , and forever mocked the words of youths and maidens . 
And she pined , and pined , until her body wasted quite away , and nothing but her voice was left . 
And some say that even to this day her voice lives in lonely caves and answers men's words from afar . 
Now , when Narcissus fled from Echo , he came to a clear spring , like silver . 
The trees bent above and shaded it from the hot sun , and the soft , green grass grew on its margin . 
Here Narcissus , fatigued and thirsty after his flight , laid himself down beside the spring to drink . 
He gazed into the mirror like water , and saw himself reflected in its tide . 
He knew not that it was his own image , but thought that he saw a youth living in the spring . 
And as he gazed his cold heart grew warm , and love for this beautiful reflection rose up and filled his soul . 
He rained kisses on the deceitful stream . 
He thrust his arms into the water , and strove to grasp the image by the neck , but it fled away . 
Again he kissed the stream , but the image mocked his love . 
And all day and all night , lying there without food or drink , he continued to gaze into the water . 
He disturbed the water with his tears , and made the woods to resound with his sighs . 
The Water Nymphs wept for him , and the Wood Dryads lamented him , and Echo resounded their mourning . 
'' Then she pointed to the little birds and said This is Fair Wing , that is Tiny Bill , and that other is Bright Eyes . 
'' At home , we are three , '' said the child , myself and two sisters . 
Mother says that we are pretty children , and she loves us . 
'' To this the little larks replied Oh , yes , OUR mother is fond of us , too . 
'' Oh , she will be so sorry to leave home , '' said the child she could not come away from our mother . 
'' Tiny Bill will be so sorry to leave our nest , '' answered Bright Eyes , and he will not go away from OUR mother . 
'' Then the child ran away to her mother , saying Ah , every one is fond of home ! '' CORNELIA'S JEWELS BY JAMES BALDWIN From Fifty Famous Stories Retold . 
Copyright , , by American Book Company . 
It was a bright morning in the old city of Rome many hundred years ago . 
In a vine covered summer house in a beautiful garden , two boys were standing . 
They were looking at their mother and her friend , who were walking among the flowers and trees . 
Did you ever see so handsome a lady as our mother's friend ? '' asked the younger boy , holding his tall brother's hand . 
She looks like a queen . 
'' Yet she is not so beautiful as our mother , '' said the elder boy . 
She has a fine dress , it is true but her face is not noble and kind . 
It is our mother who is like a queen . 
'' That is true , '' said the other . 
There is no woman in Rome so much like a queen as our own dear mother . 
'' Soon Cornelia , their mother , came down the walk to speak with them . 
She was simply dressed in a plain , white robe . 
Her arms and feet were bare , as was the custom in those days and no rings or chains glittered about her hands and neck . 
For her only crown , long braids of soft brown hair were coiled about her head and a tender smile lit up her noble face as she looked into her sons' proud eyes . 
Boys , '' she said , I have something to tell you . 
'' The brothers looked shyly at their mother's friend . 
The brothers looked long at the gems . 
Ah ! '' whispered the younger if our mother could only have such beautiful things ! '' At last , however , the casket was closed and carried carefully away . 
Is it true , Cornelia , that you have no jewels ? '' asked her friend . 
They are worth more than all your gems . 
And the world still likes to hear the story of Cornelia's jewels . 
One day when roses were in bloom , two noblemen came to angry words in the Temple Gardens , by the side of the river Thames . 
'' Then the other gentleman tore a red rose from another bush , and said Let him who will stand by me pluck a red rose , and wear it as his badge . 
The leaders of the Red Rose'' sided with King Henry the Sixth and his wife , Queen Margaret , who were fighting for the English throne . 
Many great battles were fought , and wicked deeds were done in those dreadful times . 
The poor queen , overcome by terror , fell upon her knees and begged them to spare her only son , the little prince . 
But the robbers , turning from her , began to fight among themselves as to how they should divide the plunder , and , drawing their weapons , they attacked one another . 
When the queen saw what was happening she sprang to her feet , and , taking the prince by the hand , made haste to escape . 
Every tree seemed to her excited fancy to be an armed man waiting to kill her and her little son . 
On and on she went through the dark wood , this way and that , seeking some place of shelter , but not knowing where she was going . 
At last she saw by the light of the moon a tall , fierce looking man step out from behind a tree . 
He came directly toward her , and she knew by his dress that he was an outlaw . 
But thinking that he might have children of his own , she determined to throw herself and her son upon his mercy . 
When he came near she addressed him in a calm voice and with a stately manner . 
Friend , '' said she , I am the queen . 
Kill me if thou wilt , but spare my son , thy prince . 
Take him , I will trust him to thee . 
Keep him safe from those that seek his life , and God will have pity on thee for all thy sins . 
'' The words of the queen moved the heart of the outlaw . 
He told her that he had once fought on her side , and was now hiding from the soldiers of the White Rose . 
'' He then lifted the little prince in his arms , and , bidding the queen follow , led the way to a cave in the rocks . 
If you ever go to Hexham Forest , you may see this robber's cave . 
It is on the bank of a little stream that flows at the foot of a hill , and to this day the people call it Queen Margaret's Cave . 
This he showed with joy to his mother , Volumnia , whom he loved exceedingly , it being his greatest pleasure to receive praise from her lips . 
He afterward won many more crowns in battle , and became one of the most famous of Roman soldiers . 
One of his memorable exploits took place during a war with the Volscians , in which the Romans attacked the city of Corioli . 
Through Caius's bravery the place was taken , and the Roman general said Henceforth , let him be called after the name of this city . 
'' So ever after he was known as Caius Marcius Coriolanus . 
Courage was not the only marked quality of Coriolanus . 
His pride was equally great . 
He was a noble of the nobles , so haughty in demeanor and so disdainful of the commons that they grew to hate him bitterly . 
At length came a time of great scarcity of food . 
The people were on the verge of famine , to relieve which shiploads of corn were sent from Sicily to Rome . 
Let them give up their tribunes . 
If they do this we will let them have corn , and take care of them . 
But the tribunes prevented this , and Coriolanus fled from Rome , exiled from his native land by his pride and disdain of the people . 
The exile made his way to the land of the Volscians and became the friend of Rome's great enemy , whom he had formerly helped to conquer . 
The army swept victoriously onward , taking city after city , and finally encamping within five miles of Rome . 
The approach of this powerful host threw the Romans into dismay . 
They had been assailed so suddenly that they had made no preparations for defense , and the city seemed to lie at the mercy of its foes . 
The women ran to the temples to pray for the favor of the gods . 
The people demanded that the Senate should send deputies to the invading army to treat for peace . 
The Senate , no less frightened than the people , obeyed , sending five leading Patricians to the Volscian camp . 
These deputies were haughtily received by Coriolanus , who offered them such severe terms that they were unable to accept them . 
They returned and reported the matter , and the Senate was thrown into confusion . 
The deputies were sent again , instructed to ask for gentler terms , but now Coriolanus refused even to let them enter his camp . 
This harsh repulse plunged Rome into mortal terror . 
Even the Volscian soldiers watched them with pitying eyes , and spoke no scornful word as they moved slowly past . 
On reaching the midst of the camp , they saw Coriolanus on the general's seat , with the Volscian chiefs gathered around him . 
The Roman matron stopped him with a dignified gesture . 
Ere you kiss me , '' she said , let me know whether I speak to an enemy or to my son whether I stand here as your prisoner or your mother . 
'' He stood before her in silence , with bent head , and unable to answer . 
Must it , then , be that if I had never borne a son , Rome would have never seen the camp of an enemy ? '' said Volumnia , in sorrowful tones . 
But I am too old to endure much longer your shame and my misery . 
Think not of me , but of your wife and children , whom you would doom to death or to life in bondage . 
Coriolanus still stood silent , his face working with contending thoughts . 
'' Thereupon he embraced her with yearning heart , and afterward clasped his wife and children to his breast , bidding them return with their tale of conquest to Rome . 
As for himself , he said , only exile and shame remained . 
Before the women reached home , the army of the Volscians was on its homeward march . 
Coriolanus never led it against Rome again . 
He lived and died in exile , far from his wife and children . 
One day a poor woman approached Mr. Lincoln for an interview . 
She was somewhat advanced in years and plainly clad , wearing a faded shawl and worn hood . 
My husband was killed in the battle of . 
I get along very badly since then living all alone , and I thought that I would come and ask you to release to me my eldest son . 
'' He then made out an order discharging the young man , which the woman took away , thanking him gratefully . 
She went to the front herself with the President's order , and found that her son had been mortally wounded in a recent battle , and taken to the hospital . 
She hastened to the hospital . 
But she was too late , the boy died , and she saw him laid in a soldier's grave . 
She then returned to the President with his order , on the back of which the attendant surgeon had stated the sad facts concerning the young man it was intended to discharge . 
Mr. Lincoln was much moved by her story , and said I know what you wish me to do now , and I shall do it without your asking . 
I shall release to you your second son . 
'' She took the order and reverently placing her hand upon his head , said The Lord bless you , Mr. President . 
May you live a thousand years , and may you always be the head of this great nation . 
Betsy was noted for her exquisite needlework , and was engaged in the flag making business . 
The committee asked her if she thought she could make a flag from a design , a rough drawing of which General Washington showed her . 
She replied , with diffidence , that she did not know whether she could or not , but would try . 
She noticed , however , that the star as drawn had six points , and informed the committee that the correct star had but five . 
They answered that as a great number of stars would be required , the more regular form with six points could be more easily made than one with five . 
She responded in a practical way by deftly folding a scrap of paper then with a single clip of her scissors she displayed a true , symmetrical , five pointed star . 
This decided the committee in her favor . 
Sometime after its completion it was presented to Congress , and the committee had the pleasure of informing Betsy Ross that her flag was accepted as the Nation's standard . 
In , while the War of was still going on , the people of Maryland were in great trouble , for a British fleet began to attack Baltimore . 
The enemy bombarded the forts , including Fort McHenry . 
For twenty four hours the terrific bombardment went on . 
These two men were in the strangest place that could be imagined . 
They were in a little American vessel fast moored to the side of the British admiral's flagship . 
The British commander finally decided that the prisoner might be set free but he had no idea of allowing the two men to go back to the city and carry any information . 
Until the attack on Baltimore is ended , you and your boat must remain here , '' he said . 
As long as daylight lasted they could catch glimpses of the Stars and Stripes whenever the wind swayed the clouds of smoke . 
When night came they could still see the banner now and then by the blaze of the cannon . 
A little after midnight the firing stopped . 
The two men paced up and down the deck , straining their eyes to see if the flag was still flying . 
Can the fort have surrendered ? '' they questioned . 
Oh , if snorning would only come ! '' At last the faint gray of dawn appeared . 
They could see that some flag was flying , but it was too dark to tell which . 
More and more eagerly they gazed . 
It grew lighter , a sudden breath of wind caught the flag , and it floated out on the breeze . 
It was no English flag , it was their own Stars and Stripes . 
The fort had stood , the city was safe . 
Then it was that Key took from his pocket an old letter and on the back of it he wrote the poem , The Star Spangled Banner . 
'' The British departed , and the little American boat went back to the city . 
Mr. Key gave a copy of the poem to his uncle , who had been helping to defend the fort . 
The uncle sent it to the printer , and had it struck off on some handbills . 
Before the ink was dry the printer caught up one and hurried away to a restaurant , where many patriots were assembled . 
Charles Durang mounted a chair and then for the first time The Star Spangled Banner'' was sung . 
The tune was To Anacreon in Heaven , '' an air which had long been a favorite . 
Halls , theaters , and private houses rang with its strains . 
The fleet was out of sight even before the poem was printed . 
In the middle of the night the admiral had sent to the British soldiers this message , I can do nothing more , '' and they hurried on board the vessels . 
It was not long before they left Chesapeake Bay altogether , perhaps with the new song ringing in their ears as they went . 
Her story was soon told . 
She was from East Tennessee , where her husband had been killed by the Confederates , and all her property destroyed . 
Being destitute , she thought that if she could procure a situation for her boy as drummer , she could find employment for herself . 
While she told her story , the little fellow kept his eyes intently fixed upon the countenance of the captain . 
'' This was spoken with so much confidence that the captain smiled and said to the sergeant Well , well , bring the drum , and order our fifer to come here . 
'' In a few moments a drum was produced and the fifer , a round shouldered , good natured fellow , who stood six feet tall , made his appearance . 
I drummed for Captain Hill in Tennessee . 
And nobly did the little fellow follow him , showing himself to be master of the drum . 
When the music ceased the captain turned to the mother and observed Madam , I will take the boy . 
What is his name ? '' Edward Lee , '' she replied . 
We shall be discharged in six weeks . 
'' An hour after , the company led the regiment out of camp , the drum and fife playing The Girl I left behind me . 
'' Eddie , as the soldiers called him , soon became a great favorite with all the men of the company . 
When any of the boys returned from foraging , Eddie's share of the peaches , melons , and other good things was meted out first . 
The contest in the ravine continued some time . 
Totten suddenly wheeled his battery upon the enemy in that quarter , and they soon retreated to high ground behind their lines . 
That night a corporal was detailed for guard duty . 
His post was upon a high eminence that overlooked the deep ravine in which the men had engaged the enemy . 
It was a dreary , lonesome beat . 
The hours passed slowly away , and at length the morning light began to streak along the western sky , making surrounding objects visible . 
Presently the corporal heard a drum beating up the morning call . 
At first he thought it came from the camp of the Confederates across the creek , but as he listened he found that it came from the deep ravine . 
For a few moments the sound stopped , then began again . 
The notes of the drum were familiar to him , and then he knew that it was the drummer boy from Tennessee playing the morning call . 
Just then the corporal was relieved from guard duty , and , asking permission , went at once to Eddie's assistance . 
As soon as the boy saw his rescuer he dropped his drumsticks , and exclaimed O Corporal ! I am so glad to see you ! Give me a drink . 
'' The corporal was soon back with the water , when he discovered that both the lad's feet had been shot away by a cannon ball . 
'' The corporal now looked about him and discovered a man lying in the grass near by . 
By his dress he knew him to belong to the Confederate army . 
It appeared that he had been shot and had fallen near Eddie . 
The corporal requested the officer in charge to take Eddie up in front of him , and he did so , carrying the lad with great tenderness and care . 
When they reached the Confederate camp the little fellow was dead . 
When marching to Chattanooga the corps had reached a little wooded valley between the mountains . 
The colonel , with others , rode ahead , and , striking into a bypath , suddenly came upon a secluded little cabin surrounded by a patch of cultivated ground . 
At the door an old woman , eighty years of age , was supporting herself on a crutch . 
'' To gratify her the colonel sent to have the colors brought that way . 
When they were unfurled and planted before her door , she passed her trembling hands over them and held them close to her eyes that she might view the stars once more . 
They were Eastern people , who had gone to New Orleans to try to improve their condition . 
Then the war burst upon them . 
The man fled to the mountains to avoid the conscription , and they knew not whether he was alive or dead . 
They had managed to support life , but were so retired that they saw very few people . 
Leaving them food and supplies , the colonel and the corps passed on . 
To the relief of these few came the brigade in double quick time . 
But no sooner were the soldiers intrenched than the firing on the opposite side of the river became terrific . 
A heavy mist obscured the scene . 
The Federal soldiers poured a merciless fire into the trenches . 
Soon many Confederates fell , and the agonized cries of the wounded who lay there calling for water , smote the hearts of their helpless comrades . 
Water ! Water ! '' But there was none to give , the canteens were empty . 
Boys , '' exclaimed Nathan Cunningham , a lad of eighteen , the color bearer for his regiment , I can't stand this any more . 
They want water , and water they must have . 
So let me have a few canteens and I'll go for some . 
Shortly after this the firing ceased for a while , and an order came for the men to fall back to the main line . 
As the Confederates were retreating they met Nathan Cunningham , his canteens full of water , hurrying to relieve the thirst of the wounded men in the trenches . 
He glanced over the passing column and saw that the faded flag , which he had carried so long , was not there . 
The men in their haste to obey orders HAD FORGOTTEN OR OVERLOOKED THE COLORS . 
Quickly the lad sped to the trenches , intent now not only on giving water to his comrades , but on rescuing the flag and so to save the honor of his regiment . 
His mission of mercy was soon accomplished . 
The wounded men drank freely . 
The lad then found and seized his colors , and turned to rejoin his regiment . 
Scarcely had he gone three paces when a company of Federal soldiers appeared ascending the hill . 
Halt and surrender , '' came the stern command , and a hundred rifles were leveled at the boy's breast . 
NEVER ! while I hold the colors , '' was his firm reply . 
Then the Federal officer gave his command Back with your pieces , men , don't shoot that brave boy . 
'' And Nathan Cunningham , with colors flying over his head , passed on and joined his regiment . 
His comrades in arms still tell with pride of his brave deed and of the generous act of a foe . 
THE BRAVERY OF RICHARD KIRTLAND Richard Kirtland was a sergeant in the Second Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers . 
The day after the great battle of Fredericksburg , Kershaw's brigade occupied the road at the foot of Marye's Hill . 
One hundred and fifty yards in front of the road , on the other side of a stone wall , lay Sykes's division of the United States Army . 
Between these troops and Kershaw's command a skirmish fight was continued through the entire day . 
The ground between the lines was literally covered with dead and dying Federal soldiers . 
Let me go and give them some . 
Go , and may God protect you ! '' In the face of almost certain death the sergeant climbed the wall , watched with anxiety by the soldiers of his army . 
Under the curious gaze of his foes , and exposed to their fire , he dropped to the ground and hastened on his errand of mercy . 
Unharmed , untouched , he reached the nearest sufferer . 
He knelt beside him , tenderly raised his drooping head , rested it gently on his breast , and poured the cooling life giving water down the parched throat . 
By this time his conduct was understood by friend and foe alike and the firing ceased on both sides . 
For an hour and a half did he pursue his noble mission , until he had relieved the wounded on all parts of the battlefield . 
Then he returned to his post uninjured . 
Surely such a noble deed is worthy of the admiration of men and angels . 
In the summer of , a young man belonging to a Vermont regiment was found sleeping at his post . 
He was tried and sentenced to be shot . 
The day was fixed for the execution , and the young soldier calmly prepared to meet his fate . 
Friends who knew of the case brought the matter to Mr. Lincoln's attention . 
It seemed that the boy had been on duty one night , and on the following night he had taken the place of a comrade too ill to stand guard . 
The third night he had been again called out , and , being utterly exhausted , had fallen asleep at his post . 
As soon as Mr. Lincoln understood the case , he signed a pardon , and sent it to the camp . 
The morning before the execution arrived , and the President had not heard whether the pardon had reached the officers in charge of the matter . 
He began to feel uneasy . 
He ordered a telegram to be sent to the camp , but received no answer . 
State papers could not fix his mind , nor could he banish the condemned soldier boy from his thoughts . 
At last , feeling that he MUST KNOW that the lad was safe , he ordered the carriage and rode rapidly ten miles over a dusty road and beneath a scorching sun . 
When he reached the camp he found that the pardon had been received and the execution stayed . 
The sentinel was released , and his heart was filled with lasting gratitude . 
When the campaign opened in the spring , the young man was with his regiment near Yorktown , Virginia . 
They were ordered to attack a fort , and he fell at the first volley of the enemy . 
His comrades caught him up and carried him bleeding and dying from the field . 
Bear witness , '' he said , that I have proved myself not a coward , and I am not afraid to die . 
'' Then , making a last effort , with his dying breath he prayed for Abraham Lincoln . 
While on his way down the stairs , wilh the flag in his arms , he was met by the tavern keeper , who shot and killed him instantly . 
Ellsworth fell , dyeing the Confederate flag with the blood that gushed from his heart . 
The tavern keeper was instantly killed by a shot from Private Brownell , of the Ellsworth Zouaves , who was at hand when his commander fell . 
The death of Ellsworth , needless though it may have been , caused a profound sensation throughout the country , where he was well known . 
He was among the very first martyrs of the war , as he had been one of the first volunteers . 
Lincoln was overwhelmed with sorrow . 
One day , as the general was sitting at his table in the office , the messenger announced that a person desired to see him a moment in order to present a gift . 
A German was introduced , who said that he was commissioned by a house in New York to present General Scott with a small silk banner . 
It was very handsome , of the size of a regimental flag , and was made of a single piece of silk stamped with the Stars and Stripes of the proper colors . 
As soon as the man was gone , the general desired that the stars might be counted to see if ALL the States were represented . 
The flag was then draped between the windows over the couch where the general frequently reclined for rest during the day . 
It went with him in his berth when he sailed for Europe , after his retirement , and enveloped his coffin when he was interred at West Point . 
'' The result was , a resolution passed unanimously on the d of July that these United Colonies are , and of right ought to be , free and independent States . 
'' The d of July , '' adds the same patriot statesman , will be the most memorable epoch in the history of America . 
I am apt to believe that it will be celebrated by succeeding generations as the great anniversary festival . 
It ought to be commemorated as the day of deliverance , by solemn acts of devotion to Almighty God . 
'' The glorious event has , indeed , given rise to an annual jubilee but not on the day designated by Adams . 
The FOURTH of July is the day of national rejoicing , for on that day the Declaration of Independence , '' that solemn and sublime document , was adopted . 
Tradition gives a dramatic effect to its announcement . 
It was known to be under discussion , but the closed doors of Congress excluded the populace . 
They awaited , in throngs , an appointed signal . 
In the steeple of the State House was a bell , imported twenty three years previously from London by the Provincial Assembly of Pennsylvania . 
It bore the portentous text from Scripture Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land , unto all the inhabitants thereof . 
'' A joyous peal from that bell gave notice that the bill had been passed . 
It was the knell of British domination . 
THE SIGNING OF THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE BY H. A. GUERBER From The Story of the Thirteen Colonies . 
Copyright , , by H. A. Guerber . 
American Book Company , publishers . 
Now let him double the price on my head , for this is my defiance . 
'' Then he turned to the other members , and solemnly declared We must be unanimous . 
There must be no pulling different ways . 
We must all hang together . 
'' Yes , '' said Franklin , quaintly we must all hang together , or most assuredly we shall all hang separately . 
From Stories of Heroic Deeds . 
Copyright , , by D. Appleton and Company . 
American Book Company , publishers . 
During this time General Schuyler was staying at his house , which stood just outside the stockade or walls of Albany . 
The British commander sent out a party of Tories and Indians to capture the general . 
When they reached the outskirts of the city they learned from a Dutch laborer that the general's house was guarded by six soldiers , three watching by night and three by day . 
They let the Dutchman go , and as soon as the band was out of sight he hastened to Albany and warned the general of their approach . 
In the room upstairs was the sturdy general , standing resolutely at the door , with gun in hand , while his black slaves were gathered about him , each with a weapon . 
At the other end of the room the women were huddled together , some weeping and some praying . 
Suddenly a deafening crash was heard . 
The Indian band had broken into the house . 
With loud shouts they began to pillage and to destroy everything in sight . 
The general caught his wife in his arms , and implored her not to go to certain death , saying that if any one was to go he would . 
While this generous struggle between husband and wife was going on , their young daughter , who had been standing near the door , glided by them , and descended the stairs . 
All was dark in the hall , excepting where the light shone from the dining room in which the Indians were pillaging the shelves and fighting over their booty . 
How to get past the dining room door was the question , but the brave girl did not hesitate . 
Reaching the lower hall , she walked very deliberately forward , softly but quickly passing the door , and unobserved reached the room in which was the cradle . 
She caught up the baby , crept back past the open door , and was just mounting the stairs , when one of the savages happened to see her . 
WHIZ'' and his sharp tomahawk struck the stair rail within a few inches of the baby's head . 
But the frightened girl hurried on , and in a few seconds was safe in her father's arms . 
As for the Indians , fearing an attack from the near by garrison , they hastened away with the booty they had collected , and left General Schuyler and his family unharmed . 
From a letter written to a friend in . 
On November , , there arrived in Boston Harbor a ship carrying an hundred and odd chests of the detested tea . 
The town bells were rung , for a general muster of the citizens . 
Therefore , Mr. Rotch declared that his ship should not carry back the tea without either the proper clearance or the promise of full indemnity for any losses he might incur . 
Matters continued thus for some days , when a general muster was called of the people of Boston and of all the neighboring towns . 
This the collector said he could not give without the duties first being paid . 
'' By the time Mr. Rotch returned to the Old South Meeting House with this message , the candles were lighted and the house still crowded with people . 
When the governor's message was read a prodigious shout was raised , and soon afterward the moderator declared the meeting dissolved . 
That night there mustered upon Fort Hill about two hundred strange figures , SAID TO BE INDIANS FROM NARRAGANSETT . 
They were clothed in blankets , with heads muffled , and had copper colored countenances . 
Each was armed with a hatchet or axe , and a pair of pistols . 
They spoke a strange , unintelligible jargon . 
They proceeded two by two to Griffin's Wharf , where three tea ships lay , each with one hundred and fourteen chests of the ill fated article on board . 
And before nine o'clock in the evening every chest was knocked into pieces and flung over the sides . 
But , being detected , he was handled pretty roughly . 
They not only stripped him of his clothes , but gave him a coat of mud , with a severe bruising into the bargain . 
Nothing but their desire not to make a disturbance prevented his being tarred and feathered . 
The tea being thrown overboard , all the Indians disappeared in a most marvelous fashion . 
From Stories of the Old Dominion . 
Used by permission of the American Book Company , publishers . 
In the autumn of the English decided to attack Fort Henry , at Wheeling , in northwestern Virginia . 
This was an important border fort named in honor of Patrick Henry , and around which had grown up a small village of about twenty five log houses . 
A band of Indians , under the leadership of one Simon Girty , was supplied by the English with muskets and ammunition , and sent against the fort . 
This Girty was a white man , who , when a boy , had been captured by Indians , and brought up by them . 
He had joined their tribes , and was a ferocious and bloodthirsty leader of savage bands . 
When the settlers at Wheeling heard that Simon Girty and his Indians were advancing on the town , they left their homes and hastened into the fort . 
Scarcely had they done so when the savages made their appearance . 
The defenders of the fort knew that a desperate fight must now take place , and there seemed little probability that they would be able to hold out against their assailants . 
They had only forty two fighting men , including old men and boys , while the Indian force numbered about five hundred . 
What was worse they had but a small amount of gunpowder . 
A keg containing the main supply had been left by accident in one of the village houses . 
This misfortune , as you will soon see , brought about the brave action of a young girl . 
After several encounters with the savages , which took place in the village , the defenders withdrew to the fort . 
Then a number of Indians advanced with loud yells , firing as they came . 
The fire was returned by the defenders , each of whom had picked out his man , and taken deadly aim . 
Most of the attacking party were killed , and the whole body of Indians fell back into the near by woods , and there awaited a more favorable opportunity to renew hostilities . 
The men in the fort now discovered , to their great dismay , that their gunpowder was nearly gone . 
Colonel Shepherd , who was in command , explained to the settlers exactly how matters stood . 
He also told them of the forgotten keg of powder which was in a house standing about sixty yards from the gate of the fort . 
It was plain to all that if any man should attempt to procure the keg , he would almost surely be shot by the lurking Indians . 
In spite of this three or four young men volunteered to go on the dangerous mission . 
Colonel Shepherd replied that he could not spare three or four strong men , as there were already too few for the defense . 
Only one man should make the attempt and they might decide who was to go . 
Just then a young girl stepped forward and said that SHE was ready to go . 
Her name was Elizabeth Zane , and she had just returned from a boarding school in Philadelphia . 
This made her brave offer all the more remarkable , since she had not been bred up to the fearless life of the border . 
At first the men would not hear of her running such a risk . 
She was told that it meant certain death . 
But she urged that they could not spare a man from the defense , and that the loss of one girl would not be an important matter . 
So after some discussion the settlers agreed that she should go for the powder . 
The house , as has already been stated , stood about sixty yards from the fort , and Elizabeth hoped to run thither and bring back the powder in a few minutes . 
The gate was opened , and she passed through , running like a deer . 
A few straggling Indians were dodging about the log houses of the town they saw the fleeing girl , but for some reason they did not fire upon her . 
They may have supposed that she was returning to her home to rescue her clothes . 
Possibly they thought it a waste of good ammunition to fire at a woman , when they were so sure of taking the fort before long . 
So they looked on quietly while , with flying skirts , Elizabeth ran across the open , and entered the house . 
She found the keg of powder , which was not large . 
She lifted it with both arms , and , holding the precious burden close to her breast , she darted out of the house and ran in the direction of the fort . 
When the Indians saw what she was carrying they uttered fierce yells and fired . 
The bullets fell like hail about her , but not one so much as touched her garments . 
With the keg hugged to her bosom , she ran on , and reached the fort in safety . 
The gate closed upon her just as the bullets of the Indians buried themselves in its thick panels . 
The rescued gunpowder enabled the little garrison to hold out until help arrived from the other settlements near Wheeling . 
And Girty , seeing that there were no further hopes of taking Fort Henry , withdrew his band . 
Thus a weak but brave girl was the means of saving strong men with their wives and children . 
It was a heroic act , and Americans should never forget to honor the name of Elizabeth Zane . 
Some bold spirits in Connecticut conceived the project of surprising the old forts of Ticonderoga and Crown Point , already famous in the French War . 
Their situation on Lake Champlain gave them the command of the main route into Canada so that the possession of them would be all important in case of hostilities . 
They were feebly garrisoned and negligently guarded , and abundantly furnished with artillery and military stores so needed by the patriot army . 
At this juncture Ethan Allen stepped forward , a patriot , and volunteered with his Green Mountain Boys . 
'' He was well fitted for the enterprise . 
During the border warfare over the New Hampshire Grants , he and his lieutenants had been outlawed by the Legislature of New York and rewards offered for their apprehension . 
He and his associates had armed themselves , set New York at defiance , and had sworn they would be the death of any one who should try to arrest them . 
Thus Ethan Allen had become a kind of Robin Hood among the mountains . 
His experience as a frontier champion , his robustness of mind and body , and his fearless spirit made him a most desirable leader in the expedition against Fort Ticonderoga . 
Therefore he was appointed at the head of the attacking force . 
They reached the place at night time . 
There were only a few boats on hand , but the transfer of men began immediately . 
The night wore away day was about to break , and but eighty three men , with Allen and Arnold , had crossed . 
Should they wait for the rest to cross over , day would dawn , the garrison wake , and their enterprise might fail . 
Allen drew up his men , addressed them in his own emphatic style , and announced his intention of making a dash at the fort without waiting for more force . 
It is a desperate attempt , '' said he , and I ask no man to go against his will . 
I will take the lead , and be the first to advance . 
The day dawned as Allen arrived at a sally port . 
A sentry pulled trigger on him , but his piece missed fire . 
He retreated through a covered way . 
Allen and his men followed . 
Another sentry thrust at an officer with his bayonet , but was struck down by Allen , and begged for quarter . 
It was granted on condition of his leading the way instantly to the quarters of the commandant , Captain Delaplace , who was yet in bed . 
Being arrived there , Allen thundered at the door , and demanded a surrender of the fort . 
By this time his followers had formed into two lines on the parade ground , and given three hearty cheers . 
The commandant appeared at the door half dressed , the frightened face of his pretty wife peering over his shoulder . 
He gazed at Allen in bewildered astonishment . 
By whose authority do you act ? '' exclaimed he . 
In the name of the Continental Congress ! '' replied Allen , with a flourish of his sword , and an oath which we do not care to subjoin . 
There was no disputing the point . 
The garrison , like the commandant , had been startled from sleep , and made prisoners as they rushed forth in their confusion . 
A surrender accordingly took place . 
The captain and forty eight men who composed his garrison were sent prisoners to Hartford , in Connecticut . 
And thus without the loss of a single man , one of the important forts , commanding the main route into Canada , fell into the hands of the patriots . 
The breastworks were manned by patriot militia who had recently served in Brooklyn . 
Disheartened by their late defeat , they fled at the first advance of the enemy . 
At this moment Washington , who had mounted his horse at the first sound of the cannonade , came galloping to the scene of confusion . 
Riding in among the fugitives he endeavored to rally and restore them to order . 
At the first appearance of sixty or seventy redcoats , they broke again without firing a shot , and fled in headlong terror . 
Losing all self command at the sight of such dastardly conduct , Washington dashed his hat upon the ground in a transport of rage . 
It was one of the rare moments of his life when the vehement element of his nature was stirred up from its deep recesses . 
He soon recovered his self possession , and took measures against the general peril . 
Once words ran high in a smithy . 
The furnace said If I cease to burn , the smithy must close . 
'' The bellows said If I cease to blow , no fire , no smithy . 
'' The hammer and anvil , also , each claimed the sole credit for keeping up the smithy . 
From the Riverside Fourth Reader . 
A merchant had done good business at the fair he had sold his wares , and filled his bag with gold and silver . 
Then he set out at once on his journey home , for he wished to be in his own house before night . 
At noon he rested in a town . 
When he wanted to go on , the stable boy brought his horse , saying A nail is wanting , sir , in the shoe of his left hind foot . 
'' Let it be wanting , '' answered the merchant the shoe will stay on for the six miles I have still to go . 
I am in a hurry . 
'' In the afternoon he got down at an inn and had his horse fed . 
The stable boy came into the room to him and said Sir , a shoe is wanting from your horse's left hind foot . 
Shall I take him to the blacksmith ? '' Let it still be wanting , '' said the man the horse can very well hold out for a couple of miles more . 
I am in a hurry . 
'' So the merchant rode forth , but before long the horse began to limp . 
He had not limped long before he began to stumble , and he had not stumbled long before he fell down and broke his leg . 
The merchant had to leave the horse where he fell , and unstrap the bag , take it on his back , and go home on foot . 
That unlucky nail , '' said he to himself , has made all this trouble . 
'' THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER BY HORACE E. SCUDDER There was once a shoemaker who worked very hard and was honest . 
Still , he could not earn enough to live on . 
At last , all he had in the world was gone except just leather enough to make one pair of shoes . 
He cut these out at night , and meant to rise early the next morning to make them up . 
His heart was light in spite of his troubles , for his conscience was clear . 
So he went quietly to bed , left all his cares to God , and fell asleep . 
In the morning he said his prayers , and sat down to work , when , to his great wonder , there stood the shoes , already made , upon the table . 
The good man knew not what to say or think . 
He looked at the work . 
There was not one false stitch in the whole job . 
All was neat and true . 
That same day a customer came in , and the shoes pleased him so well that he readily paid a price higher than usual for them . 
The shoemaker took the money and bought leather enough to make two pairs more . 
He cut out the work in the evening , and went to bed early . 
He wished to be up with the sun and get to work . 
He was saved all trouble , for when he got up in the morning , the work was done . 
Pretty soon buyers came in , who paid him well for his goods . 
So he bought leather enough for four pairs more . 
He cut out the work again overnight , and found it finished in the morning as before . 
So it went on for some time . 
What was got ready at night was always done by daybreak , and the good man soon was well to do . 
'' So they left the light burning , and hid themselves behind a curtain to see what would happen . 
As soon as it was midnight , there came two little Elves . 
They sat upon the shoemaker's bench , took up all the work that was cut out , and began to ply their little fingers . 
They stitched and rapped and tapped at such a rate that the shoemaker was amazed , and could not take his eyes off them for a moment . 
On they went till the job was done , and the shoes stood , ready for use , upon the table . 
This was long before daybreak . 
Then they ran away as quick as lightning . 
The next day the wife said to the shoemaker These little Elves have made us rich , and we ought to be thankful to them , and do them some good in return . 
I am vexed to see them run about as they do . 
They have nothing upon their backs to keep off the cold . 
I'll tell you what we must do . 
I will make each of them a shirt , and a coat and waistcoat , and a pair of pantaloons into the bargain . 
Do you make each of them a little pair of shoes . 
'' The good shoemaker liked the thought very well . 
One evening he and his wife had the clothes ready , and laid them on the table instead of the work they used to cut out . 
Then they went and hid behind the curtain to watch what the little Elves would do . 
At midnight the Elves came in and were going to sit down at their work as usual . 
But when they saw the clothes lying there for them , they laughed and were in high glee . 
The shoemaker saw them no more , but everything went well with him as long as he lived . 
It is well known that the Fairy People cannot abide meanness . 
One day a Hillman knocked at her door . 
Can you lend us a saucepan , good mother ? '' said he . 
There's a wedding in the hill , and all the pots are in use . 
'' Is he to have one ? '' asked the servant lass who had opened the door . 
Aye , to be sure , '' answered the housewife one must be neighborly . 
It leaks , and the Hillmen are so neat , and such nimble workers , that they are sure to mend it before they send it home . 
In due time the saucepan was returned , and , as the housewife had foreseen , it was neatly mended and ready for use . 
At supper time the maid filled the pan with milk , and set it on the fire for the children's supper . 
But in a few minutes the milk was so burnt and smoked that no one could touch it , and even the pigs refused to drink it . 
The housewife had not left the saucepan for two minutes , when the milk boiled over , and it was all burnt and smoked as before . 
The pan must be dirty , '' muttered the good woman in vexation , and there are two full quarts of milk as good as thrown to the dogs . 
'' AND THAT'S FOURPENCE ! '' added the voice in the chimney . 
After a thorough cleaning the saucepan was once more filled and set on the fire , but with no better success . 
The milk boiled over again , and was hopelessly spoiled . 
The housewife shed tears of anger at the waste and cried Never before did such a thing befall me since I kept house ! Three quarts of new milk burnt for one meal . 
'' AND THAT'S SIXPENCE ! '' cried the voice in the chimney . 
You didn't save the tinkering after all , mother ! '' With that the Hillman himself came tumbling down from the chimney , and went off laughing through the door . 
But from then on the saucepan was as good as any other . 
Once upon a time in Japan , there was a poor stone cutter , named Hofus , who used to go every day to the mountain side to cut great blocks of stone . 
He lived near the mountain in a little stone hut , and worked hard and was happy . 
One day he took a load of stone to the house of a rich man . 
There he saw so many beautiful things that when he went back to his mountain he could think of nothing else . 
Then he began to wish that he too might sleep in a bed as soft as down , with curtains of silk , and tassels of gold . 
It was filled with beautiful things , and the best of all was a bed of down , with curtains of silk and tassels of gold . 
Hofus decided to work no more . 
But he was not used to being idle , and time passed slowly , the days seemed very long . 
One day as he sat by the window he saw a carriage dash past . 
It was drawn by snow white horses . 
In it sat a prince , while before and behind were servants in suits of blue and white . 
One was holding a golden umbrella over the prince . 
He had servants dressed in crimson and gold , and he rode in a carriage with a golden umbrella over his head . 
For a short time he was happy , but one day , as he walked in the garden , he saw that the flowers were drooping , the grass was dry and brown . 
And when he rode out he felt the hot sun burn him in spite of his umbrella . 
He burned the grass and rice fields . 
he dried up the streams . 
Rich and poor alike suffered from the terrible heat . 
One day a cloud came and rested in front of him , and hid the earth from his sight . 
He floated before the face of the sun , and hid the earth from it . 
Then day after day the cloud dropped rain . 
The rivers overflowed , and the rice fields were covered with water . 
Only the great rocks on the mountain side stood unmoved midst the flood . 
The sun could not burn him and the rain could not move him . 
He looked and there was a stone cutter driving his tool into the rock . 
Another blow and the great rock shivered a block of stone broke away . 
But he was content and happy , and never again did he wish to be other than Hofus the stone cutter . 
ARACHNE BY JOSEPHINE PRESTON PEABODY There was a certain maiden of Lydia , Arachne by name , renowned throughout the country for her skill as a weaver . 
She was as nimble with her fingers as Calypso , that Nymph who kept Odysseus for seven years in her enchanted island . 
She was as untiring as Penelope , the hero's wife , who wove day after day while she watched for his return . 
Day in and day out , Arachne wove too . 
The very Nymphs would gather about her loom , Naiads from the water and Dryads from the trees . 
She would not acknowledge herself a debtor , even to that goddess who protected all household arts , and by whose grace alone one had any skill in them . 
I learned not of Athena , '' said she . 
If she can weave better , let her come and try . 
'' The Nymphs shivered at this , and an aged woman , who was looking on , turned to Arachne . 
Be more heedful of your words , my daughter , '' said she . 
The goddess may pardon you if you ask forgiveness , but do not strive for honors with the immortals . 
'' Arachne broke her thread , and the shuttle stopped humming . 
Keep your counsel , '' she said . 
I fear not Athena no , nor any one else . 
The bystanders shrank in fear and reverence only Arachne was unawed and held to her foolish boast . 
And they saw that the goddess , still merciful , was spinning as a warning for Arachne , the pictures of her own triumph over reckless gods and mortals . 
In one corner of the web she made a story of her conquest over the sea god Poseidon . 
For the first king of Athens had promised to dedicate the city to that god who should bestow upon it the most useful gift . 
But Athena gave the olive , means of livelihood , symbol of peace and prosperity , and the city was called after her name . 
Again she pictured a vain woman of Troy , who had been turned into a crane for disputing the palm of beauty with a goddess . 
Other corners of the web held similar images , and the whole shone like a rainbow . 
But she wove with marvelous skill the creatures seemed to breathe and speak , yet it was all as fine as the gossamer that you find on the grass before rain . 
Not even her wrath at the girl's insolence could wholly overcome her wonder . 
For an instant she stood entranced then she tore the web across , and three times she touched Arachne's forehead with her spindle . 
Live on , Arachne , '' she said . 
And since it is your glory to weave , you and yours must weave forever . 
'' So saying , she sprinkled upon the maiden a certain magical potion . 
Away went Arachne's beauty then her very human form shrank to that of a spider , and so remained . 
As a spider she spent all her days weaving and weaving and you may see something like her handiwork any day among the rafters . 
Once long ago there was a high mountain whose rocks were veined with gold and silver and seamed with iron . 
At times , from a huge rent in the mountain side , there shot out roaring , red flames , and clouds of black smoke . 
And when the village folk in the valley below saw this , they would say Look ! the Metal King is at his forge . 
'' For they knew that in the gloomy heart of the mountain , the Metal King and his Spirits of the Mines wrought in gold and iron . 
These he placed outside his cavern door , as gifts to the poor peasants . 
It happened , on a time , there lived in that valley a lazy lad , who would neither till his fields nor ply a trade . 
He was avaricious , but he longed to win gold without mining , and wealth and fame without labor . 
So it came to pass that he set out one day to find the mountain treasure of the Metal King . 
Taking a lighted lantern in one hand , a hatchet in the other , and a bundle of twigs under his arm , he entered the dark cavern . 
The dampness smote his cheek , bats flapped their wings in his face . 
Shivering with fear and cold , he pressed on through a long passage under an arched and blackened roof . 
As he passed along he dropped his twigs , one after another , so that they might guide him aright when he returned . 
He came at last to a place where the passage branched off in two directions , to the right and to the left . 
Choosing the right hand path , he walked on and at length came to an iron door . 
He struck it twice with his hammer . 
It flew open , and a strong current of air rushing forth put out his light . 
Come in ! Come in ! '' shouted a voice like the rolling of thunder , and the cavern echoes gave back the sounds . 
Almost overcome by terror and shivering in every limb , the lad entered . 
As he stepped forward a dazzling light shone from the vaulted roof upheld by massive columns , and across the crystal side walls flittered curious , shadowy figures . 
Come in , my friend ! '' he shouted again , and again the echoes rolled through the cavern . 
Come near , and sit beside me . 
'' The lad advanced , pale and trembling , and took his seat upon the silver block . 
Thou seest these riches , '' said the Metal King they are but a handful compared with those thou mayest gain if thou wilt work with us in the mines . 
Hard is the service but rich the reward ! Only say the word , and for a year and a day thou shalt be a Mountain Spirit . 
'' Nay , '' stammered the lad , in great terror , nay , I came not to work . 
All I beg of thee is one bar of gold and a handful of the jewels that lie here . 
And from that time on a strange change came over the lad . 
Long , long ago , when the world was young , there were many deeds waiting to be wrought by daring heroes . 
It was then that the mighty Hercules , who was yet a lad , felt an exceeding great and strong desire to go out into the wide world to seek his fortune . 
One day , while wandering alone and thoughtful , he came to a place where two paths met . 
And sitting down he gravely considered which he should follow . 
One path led over flowery meadows toward the darkening distance the other , passing over rough stones and rugged , brown furrows , lost itself in the glowing sunset . 
And as Hercules gazed into the distance , he saw two stately maidens coming toward him . 
The first was tall and graceful , and wrapped round in a snow white mantle . 
Her countenance was calm and beautiful . 
With gracious mien and modest glance she drew near the lad . 
The other maiden made haste to outrun the first . 
She , too , was tall , but seemed taller than she really was . 
She , too , was beautiful , but her glance was bold . 
Follow me along this flowery way , and I will make it a delightful and easy road . 
Thou shalt taste to the full of every kind of pleasure . 
No shadow of annoyance shall ever touch thee , nor strain nor stress of war and state disturb thy peace . 
Instead thou shalt tread upon carpets soft as velvet , and sit at golden tables , or recline upon silken couches . 
The fairest of maidens shall attend thee , music and perfume shall lull thy senses , and all that is delightful to eat and drink shall be placed before thee . 
Never shalt thou labor , but always live in joy and ease . 
What , O maiden , '' asked Hercules , is thy name ? '' My friends , '' said she , call me Happiness , but mine enemies name me Vice . 
I know the fond care thy parents have bestowed to train thee for a hero's part . 
Direct now thy steps along yon rugged path that leads to my dwelling . 
Honorable and noble mayest thou become through thy illustrious deeds . 
I will not seduce thee by promises of vain delights instead will I recount to thee the things that really are . 
Lasting fame and true nobility come not to mortals save through pain and labor . 
Yea , all this and more also must thou do . 
In youth they grow slothful in body and weak in mind . 
They live without labor and wax fat . 
But those fortunate youths who follow me receive other counsel . 
I am the companion of virtuous men . 
Always I am welcome in the homes of artisans and in the cottages of tillers of the soil . 
I am the guardian of industrious households , and the rewarder of generous masters and faithful servants . 
I am the promoter of the labors of peace . 
No honorable deed is accomplished without me . 
My friends have sweet repose and the untroubled enjoyment of the fruits of their efforts . 
They remember their deeds with an easy conscience and contentment , and are beloved of their friends and honored by their country . 
And when they have run their course , and death overtakes them , their names are celebrated in song and praise , and they live in the hearts of their grateful countrymen . 
Come , then , O Hercules , thou son of noble parents , come , follow thou me , and by thy worthy and illustrious deeds secure for thyself exalted Happiness . 
'' She ceased , and Hercules , withdrawing his gaze from the face of Vice , arose from his place , and followed Virtue along the rugged , brown path of Labor . 
There was once a great emperor who made a law that whosoever worked on the birthday of his eldest son should be put to death . 
'' Sire , '' answered the magician , your will shall be accomplished . 
'' And he straightway constructed a wonderful , speaking statue , and placed it in the public square of the capital city . 
Thus things continued for some years , and many men were put to death . 
Now , there was in the capital city a carpenter named Focus . 
He was a diligent workman , laboring at his trade from early morning till late at night . 
One year , when the prince's birthday came round , he continued to work all that day . 
'' The messenger accordingly departed and returned in haste to the emperor , and related to him all that had occurred . 
The guard hastened to do the emperor's bidding . 
They approached the statue and said Our emperor commands you to tell who it is that threatened you . 
'' The statue answered Seize Focus the carpenter . 
Yesterday he defied the emperor's edict this morning he threatened to break my head . 
'' The soldiers immediately arrested Focus , and dragged him to the judgment hall . 
I am obliged to earn eight pennies every day , therefore was I forced to work yesterday . 
'' And why eight pennies ? '' asked the emperor . 
Every day through the year , '' answered Focus , I am bound to repay two pennies I borrowed in my youth two I lend two I lose and two I spend . 
'' How is this ? '' said the emperor explain yourself further . 
'' Your Majesty , '' replied Focus , listen to me . 
I am bound each day to repay two pennies to my old father , for when I was a boy he expended upon me daily the like sum . 
Now he is poor and needs my assistance , and I return what I formerly borrowed . 
Again , I lose two pennies on my wife , who is a scold and has an evil temper . 
On account of her bad disposition I consider whatever I give her entirely lost . 
Lastly , two other pennies I spend on myself for meat and drink . 
I cannot do all this without working every day . 
You now know the truth , and , I pray you , give a righteous judgment . 
'' Friend , said the emperor , you have answered well . 
Go and work diligently at your calling . 
'' That same day the emperor annulled the law forbidding labor on his son's birthday . 
Not long after this he died , and Focus the carpenter , on account of his singular wisdom , was elected emperor in his stead . 
He governed wisely , and after his death there was deposited in the royal archives a portrait of Focus wearing a crown adorned with eight pennies . 
THE CHAMPION STONE CUTTER BY HUGH MILLER David Fraser was a famous Scotch hewer . 
The letter specified neither his qualifications nor his name . 
It had been written merely to secure for him the necessary employment , and the necessary employment it did secure . 
Oh , yes , HE THOUGHT he could hew . 
'' Could he hew columns such as these ? '' Oh , yes , HE THOUGHT he could hew columns such as these . 
The shed all that day resounded with roars of laughter and the only thoroughly grave man on the ground was he who occasioned the mirth of all the others . 
Next morning David again buttoned his coat but he got on much better this day than the former . 
He was less awkward and less idle , though not less observant than before and he succeeded ere evening in tracing , in workmanlike fashion , a few draughts along the future column . 
There were no more jokes or laughter and it was whispered in the evening that the strange Highlander had made astonishing progress during the day . 
By the middle of Thursday he had made up for his two days' trifling , and was abreast of the other workmen . 
The foreman went out and greeted him . 
Well , '' he said , you have beaten us all . 
You certainly CAN hew ! '' Yes , '' said David , I THOUGHT I could hew columns . 
Did the other men take much more than a week to learn ? '' Come , come , DAVID FRASER , '' replied the foreman , we all guess who you are . 
'' BILL BROWN'S TEST BY CLEVELAND MOFFETT All firemen have courage , but it cannot be known until the test how many have this particular kind , Bill Brown's kind . 
That was fortunate , but it left Brown alone , right against the cheek of the fire , watching his boiler , stoking in coal , keeping his steam gauge at . 
As the fire gained , chunks of red hot sandstone began to smash down on the engine . 
Brown ran his pressure up to , and watched the door anxiously where the boys had gone in . 
Bill Brown stood by his engine , with a wall of fire before him and a sheet of fire above him . 
He was alone with the fire , and the skin was hanging in shreds on his hands , face , and neck . 
Here , I think , was a crisis to make a very brave man quail . 
And the order had come for every man to save himself , and every man had done it except the lads inside . 
And the question was , Should he run or should he stay and die ? It was tolerably certain that he would die if he stayed . 
On the other hand , the boys of old were in there . 
Devanny and McArthur , and Gillon and Merron , his friends , his chums . 
He'd seen them drag the hose in through that door , there it was now , a long , throbbing snake of it , and they hadn't come out . 
Yes , but perhaps they weren't . 
If they were alive , they needed water now more than they ever needed anything before . 
And they couldn't get water if he quit his engine . 
Explosion or not , pain or not , alone or not , he was going to stay and make that engine hum . 
He had done the greatest thing a man can do , had offered his life for his friends . 
It is pleasant to know that this sacrifice was averted . 
A quarter of a minute or so before the second and terrible explosion , Devanny and his men came staggering from the building . 
Then it was that Merron fell , and McArthur checked his fight to save him . 
, and ran for his life with his comrades . 
He had waited for them , he had stood the great test . 
From Thirty More Famous Stories Retold . 
Copyright , , by American Book Company . 
One day Columbus was at a dinner which a Spanish gentleman had given in his honor , and several persons were present who were jealous of the great admiral's success . 
They were proud , conceited fellows , and they very soon began to try to make Columbus uncomfortable . 
You have discovered strange lands beyond the seas , '' they said , but what of that ? We do not see why there should be so much said about it . 
Anybody can sail across the ocean and anybody can coast along the islands on the other side , just as you have done . 
It is the simplest thing in the world . 
When the egg had gone entirely around and none had succeeded , all said that it could not be done . 
Then Columbus took the egg and struck its small end gently upon the table so as to break the shell a little . 
After that there was no trouble in making it stand upright . 
Gentlemen , '' said he , what is easier than to do this which you said was impossible ? It is the simplest thing in the world . 
While receiving this humble refreshment , the prior of the convent , Juan Perez de Marchena , happened to pass by , and was struck with the appearance of the stranger . 
Observing from his air and accent that he was a foreigner , he entered into conversation with him and soon learned the particulars of his story . 
The prior was a man of extensive information . 
His attention had been turned in some measure to geographical and nautical science . 
He was greatly interested by the conversation of Columbus , and struck with the grandeur of his views . 
When he found , however , that the voyager was on the point of abandoning Spain to seek the patronage of the court of France , the good friar took the alarm . 
He detained Columbus as his guest , and sent for a scientific friend to converse with him . 
That friend was Garcia Fernandez , a physician of Palos . 
He was equally struck with the appearance and conversation of the stranger . 
Several conferences took place at the convent , at which veteran mariners and pilots of Palos were present . 
Facts were related by some of these navigators in support of the theory of Columbus . 
Among the navigators of Palos was one Martin Alonzo Pinzon , the head of a family of wealth , members of which were celebrated for their adventurous expeditions . 
Yet in spite of this opposition , by degrees the theory of Columbus began to obtain proselytes . 
For nearly seven years of apparently fruitless solicitation , Columbus followed the royal court from place to place , at times encouraged by the sovereigns , and at others neglected . 
He departed , therefore , and went to the Convent of La Rabida to seek his son Diego . 
The Friar had once been confessor to the queen , and knew that she was always accessible to persons of his sacred calling . 
He therefore wrote a letter to her , and at the same time entreated Columbus to remain at the convent until an answer could be received . 
The latter was easily persuaded , for he felt as if on leaving Spain he was again abandoning his home . 
The little council at La Rabida now cast round their eyes for an ambassador to send on this momentous mission . 
They chose one Sebastian Rodriguez , a pilot of Lepe , one of the most shrewd and important personages in this maritime neighborhood . 
He so faithfully and successfully conducted his embassy that he returned shortly with an answer . 
Isabella had always been favorably disposed to the proposition of Columbus . 
She thanked Juan Perez for his timely services and requested him to repair immediately to the court , leaving Columbus in confident hope until he should hear further from her . 
This royal letter , brought back by the pilot at the end of fourteen days , spread great joy in the little junto at the convent . 
No sooner did the warm hearted friar receive it than he saddled his mule , and departed , privately , before midnight to the court . 
He journeyed through the countries of the Moors , and rode into the new city of Santa Fe where Ferdinand and Isabella were engaged in besieging the capital of Granada . 
The sacred office of Juan Perez gained him a ready admission into the presence of the queen . 
He pleaded the cause of Columbus with enthusiasm . 
He told of his honorable motives , of his knowledge and experience , and his perfect capacity to fulfill the undertaking . 
He showed the solid principles upon which the enterprise was founded , and the advantage that must attend its success , and the glory it must shed upon the Spanish Crown . 
Isabella , being warm and generous of nature and sanguine of disposition , was moved by the representations of Juan Perez , and requested that Columbus might be again sent to her . 
The worthy friar lost no time in communicating the result of his mission . 
This time , after some delay , his mission was attended with success . 
The generous spirit of Isabella was enkindled , and it seemed as if the subject , for the first time , broke upon her mind in all its real grandeur . 
Her suspense was but momentary . 
'' This was the proudest moment in the life of Isabella . 
It stamped her renown forever as the patroness of the discovery of the New World . 
When Columbus left the Canaries to pass with his three small ships into the unknown seas , the eruptions of Teneriffe illuminated the heavens and were reflected in the sea . 
This cast terror into the minds of his seamen . 
But the admiral passed from ship to ship explaining to his men , in a simple way , the action of volcanoes , so that the sailors were no longer afraid . 
But as the peak of Teneriffe sank below the horizon , a great sadness fell upon the men . 
It was their last beacon , the farthest sea mark of the Old World . 
They were seized with a nameless terror and loneliness . 
These stories , tinged with the brilliant colors of their leader's rich imagination , filled the discouraged sailors with hope and good spirits . 
But as they passed over the trackless ocean , and saw day by day the great billows rolling between them and the mysterious horizon , the sailors were again filled with dread . 
They lacked the courage to sail onward into the unknown distance . 
The compass began to vacillate , and no longer pointed toward the north this confused both Columbus and his pilots . 
The men fell into a panic , but the resolute and patient admiral encouraged them once more . 
So buoyed up by his faith and hope , they continued to sail onwards over the pathless waters . 
The brilliancy of the stars and the deep beauty of the night breathed a feeling of calm security that comforted and sustained the sailors . 
The sea also began to bring its messages . 
Unknown vegetations floated upon its surface . 
One of them carried a live crab , a little sailor afloat on a tuft of grass . 
These plants and living things could not have passed many days in the water without fading and dying . 
And all encouraged the sailors to believe that they were nearing land . 
At eve and morning the distant waning clouds , like those that gather round the mountain tops , took the form of cliffs and hills skirting the horizon . 
The cry of land'' was on the tip of every tongue . 
During the long passage Columbus conversed with his own thoughts , and with the stars , and with God whom he felt was his protector . 
He occupied his days in making notes of what he observed . 
The nights he passed on deck with his pilots , studying the stars and watching the seas . 
He withdrew into himself , and his thoughtful gravity impressed his companions sometimes with respect and sometimes with mistrust and awe . 
Each morning the bows of the vessels plunged through the fantastic horizon which the evening mist had made the sailors mistake for a shore . 
They kept rolling on through the boundless and bottomless abyss . 
Gradually terror and discontent once more took possession of the crews . 
But each time the murmurs threatened to break out into mutiny , Providence seemed to send more encouraging signs of land . 
And these for the time being changed the complaints to hopes . 
At evening little birds of the most delicate species , that build their nests in the shrubs of the garden and orchard , hovered warbling about the masts . 
Their delicate wings and joyous notes bore no signs of weariness or fright , as of birds swept far away to sea by a storm . 
These signs again aroused hope . 
The green weeds on the surface of the ocean looked like waving corn before the ears are ripe . 
The vegetation beneath the water delighted the eyes of the sailors tired of the endless expanse of blue . 
Thus each joy soon turned to fear , so terrible to man is the unknown . 
The wind ceased , the calms of the tropics alarmed the sailors . 
An immense whale was seen sleeping on the waters . 
They fancied there were monsters in the deep which would devour their ships . 
The roll of the waves drove them upon currents which they could not stem for want of wind . 
They imagined they were approaching the cataracts of the ocean , and that they were being hurried toward the abysses into which the deluge had poured its world of waters . 
Fierce and angry faces crowded round the mast . 
The murmurs rose louder and louder . 
They talked of compelling the pilots to put about and of throwing the admiral into the sea . 
Columbus , to whom their looks and threats revealed these plans , defied them by his bold bearing or disconcerted them by his coolness . 
Again nature came to his assistance , by giving him fresh breezes from the east , and a calm sea under his bows . 
Before the close of the day came the first cry of Land ho ! '' from the lofty poop . 
But the sunrise destroyed this new hope all too quickly . 
The imaginary land disappeared with the morning mist , and once more the ships seemed to be sailing over a never ending wilderness of waters . 
Despair took possession of the crews . 
Again the cry of Land ho ! '' was heard . 
But the sailors found as before that their hopes were but a passing cloud . 
Nothing wearies the heart so much as false hopes and bitter disappointments . 
Loud reproaches against the admiral were heard from every quarter . 
Bread and water were beginning to fail . 
These complaints now became clamorous . 
The admiral restrained them by the calmness of his countenance . 
He called upon Heaven to decide between himself and the sailors . 
He offered his life as a pledge , if they would but trust and wait for three days more . 
He swore that , if , in the course of the third day , land was not visible on the horizon , he would yield to their wishes and steer for Europe . 
The mutinous men reluctantly consented and allowed him three days of grace . 
At sunrise on the second day rushes recently torn up were seen floating near the vessels . 
The sailors brought on board these living witnesses of their approach to land . 
They were like a message from the shore , confirming the promises of Columbus . 
The overjoyed and repentant mutineers fell on their knees before the admiral whom they had insulted but the day before , and craved pardon for their mistrust . 
As the day and night advanced many other sights and sounds showed that land was very near . 
Toward day delicious and unknown perfumes borne on a soft land breeze reached the vessels , and there was heard the roar of the waves upon the reefs . 
The dawn , as it spread over the sky , gradually raised the shores of an island from the waves . 
Its distant extremities were lost in the morning mist . 
As the sun rose it shone on the land ascending from a low yellow beach to the summit of hills whose dark green covering contrasted strongly with the clear blue of the heavens . 
The foam of the waves broke on the yellow sand , and forests of tall and unknown trees stretched away , one above another , over successive terraces of the island . 
Green valleys , and bright clefts in the hollows afforded a half glimpse into these mysterious wilds . 
It was on Friday morning , the th of October , that Columbus first beheld the New World . 
As the day dawned he saw before him an island , several leagues in extent , and covered with trees like a continual orchard . 
Though apparently uncultivated it was populous , for the inhabitants were seen issuing from all parts of the woods and running to the shore . 
They were perfectly naked , and , as they stood gazing at the ships , appeared by their attitudes and gestures to be lost in astonishment . 
Columbus made signals for the ships to cast anchor and the boats to be manned and armed . 
As he approached the shore , Columbus was delighted with the purity and suavity of the atmosphere , the crystal transparency of the sea , and the extraordinary beauty of the vegetation . 
He beheld also fruits of an unknown kind upon the trees which overhung the shores . 
On landing he threw himself on his knees , kissed the earth , and returned thanks to God with tears of joy . 
His example was followed by the rest . 
'' This prayer is taken from Lamartine . 
People say she is a wonderful old woman , and has many marvelous things in her house , and I am very curious to see them . 
'' The girl , however , would not turn back at her parents' command , but went to the witch's house . 
'' And what did you see ? '' inquired the old witch . 
I saw a black man on your steps . 
'' That was a collier , '' replied she . 
Then I saw a gray man . 
'' That was a sportsman , '' said the old woman . 
After him I saw a blood red man . 
'' That was a butcher , '' replied the old woman . 
But , oh , I was most terrified , '' continued the girl , when I peeped through your window , and saw not you , but a creature with a fiery head . 
'' Then you have seen the witch in her proper dress , '' said the old woman . 
For you I have long waited , and now you shall give me light . 
From Japanese Folk Stories and Fairy Tales . 
Copyright , , by American Book Company . 
Once upon a time there was a brave soldier lad who was seeking his fortune in the wide , wide world . 
One day he lost his way in a pathless forest , and wandered about until he came at length to a small clearing in the midst of which stood a ruined temple . 
The huge trees waved above its walls , and the leaves in the thicket whispered around them . 
No sun ever shone there , and no human being lived there . 
A storm was coming up , and the soldier lad took refuge among the ruins . 
Here is all I want , '' said he . 
Here I shall have shelter from the storm god's wrath , and a comfortable place to sleep in . 
'' So he wrapped himself in his cloak , and , lying down , was soon fast asleep . 
But his slumbers did not last long . 
At midnight he was wakened by fearful shrieks , and springing to his feet , he looked out at the temple door . 
Moonlight shone on the clearing . 
And there he saw what seemed to be a troop of monstrous cats , who like huge phantoms marched across the open space in front of the temple . 
They broke into a wild dance , uttering shrieks , howls , and wicked laughs . 
But soon , with a chorus of wild yells , the Phantom Cats disappeared as quickly as they had come , and all was quiet as before . 
Then the soldier lad lay down and went to sleep again , nor did he waken till the sun peered into the temple and told him that it was morning . 
He quickly found his way out of the forest and walked on until he came to the cottage of a peasant . 
As he approached he heard sounds of bitter weeping . 
A beautiful young maiden met him at the door , and her eyes were red with crying . 
May I have some food ? '' said he . 
Enter and welcome , '' she replied . 
My parents are just having breakfast . 
You may join them , for no one passes our door hungry . 
'' Thanking her the lad entered , and her parents greeted him courteously but sadly , and shared their breakfast with him . 
He ate heartily , and , when he was finished , rose to go . 
Thank you many times for this good meal , kind friends , '' said he , and may happiness be yours . 
'' Happiness can never again be ours ! '' answered the old man , weeping . 
You are in trouble , then , '' said the lad . 
Tell me about it perhaps I can help you in some way . 
'' Alas ! '' replied the old man , There is within yonder forest a ruined temple . 
It is the abode of horrors too terrible for words . 
Each year a demon , whom no one has ever seen , demands that the people of this land give him a beautiful maiden to devour . 
She is placed in a cage and carried to the temple just at sunset . 
This year it is my daughter's turn to be offered to the fiend ! '' And the old man buried his face in his hands and groaned . 
The soldier lad paused to think for a moment , then he said It is terrible , indeed ! But do not despair . 
I think I know a way to help you . 
Who is Shippeitaro ? '' Shippeitaro is a beautiful dog , owned by our lord , the prince , '' answered the old man . 
That is just the thing ! '' cried the lad . 
Only keep your daughter closely at home . 
Do not let her out of your sight . 
Trust me and she shall be saved . 
'' Then the soldier lad hurried away , and found the castle of the prince . 
He begged that he might borrow Shippeitaro just for one night . 
You may take him upon the condition that you bring him back safely , '' said the prince . 
To morrow he shall return in safety , '' answered the lad . 
Taking Shippeitaro with him , he hurried to the peasant's cottage , and , when evening was come , he placed the dog in the cage which was to have carried the maiden . 
The bearers then took the cage to the ruined temple , and , placing it on the ground , ran away as fast as their legs would carry them . 
The lad , laughing softly to himself , hid inside the temple as before , and so quiet was the spot that he fell asleep . 
At midnight he was aroused by the same wild shrieks he had heard the night before . 
He rose and looked out at the temple door . 
Through the darkness , into the moonlight , came the troop of Phantom Cats . 
This time they were led by a fierce , black Tomcat . 
Drawing his sword the lad hurried to Shippeitaro's side , and what with Shippeitaro's teeth and the lad's hard blows , in an instant the great Tomcat was torn and cut into pieces . 
When the Phantom Cats saw this , they uttered one wild shriek and fled away , never to return again . 
Then the soldier lad , leading Shippeitaro , returned in triumph to the peasant's cottage . 
There in terror the maiden awaited his arrival , but great was the joy of herself and her parents when they knew that the Tomcat was no more . 
'' Do not thank me , '' answered the lad . 
It was he who sprang upon the great Tomcat and chased away the Phantom Creatures . 
Hard by a great forest dwelt a poor wood cutter with his two children and his wife who was their stepmother . 
The boy was called Hansel and the girl Grethel . 
The wood cutter had little to bite and to break , and once when a great famine fell on the land he could no longer get daily bread . 
They will not find the way home again , and we shall be rid of them . 
'' Oh , you fool ! '' said she . 
Then we must all four die of hunger you may as well plane the planks for our coffins . 
'' And she left him no peace until he said he would do as she wished . 
But I feel very sorry for the poor children , all the same , '' said the man . 
The two children had also not been able to sleep for hunger , and had heard what their father's wife had said to their father . 
Grethel wept bitter tears , and said to Hansel , Now all is over with us . 
'' Be quiet , Grethel , '' said Hansel , do not be troubled I will soon find a way to help us . 
'' And when the old folks had fallen asleep , he got up , put on his little coat , opened the door below , and crept outside . 
The moon shone brightly , and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house shone like real silver pennies . 
Hansel stooped and put as many of them in the little pocket of his coat as he could make room for . 
Then he went back , and said to Grethel , Be at ease , dear little sister , and sleep in peace God will not forsake us . 
'' And he lay down again in his bed . 
'' Grethel took the bread under her apron , as Hansel had the stones in his pocket . 
Then they all set out together on the way to the forest , and Hansel threw one after another of the white pebble stones out of his pocket on the road . 
'' Hansel and Grethel drew brushwood together till it was as high as a little hill . 
When we have done , we will come back and fetch you away . 
But it was not the axe , it was a branch which he had tied to a dry tree , and the wind was blowing it backward and forward . 
As they had been sitting such a long time they were tired , their eyes shut , and they fell fast asleep . 
When at last they awoke , it was dark night . 
They walked the whole night long , and by break of day came once more to their father's house . 
'' The woman , however , would listen to nothing he had to say , but scolded him . 
He who says A must say B , too , and as he had given way the first time , he had to do so a second time also . 
The children were still awake and had heard the talk . 
So he comforted his little sister , and said Do not cry , Grethel go to sleep quietly , the good God will help us . 
'' Early in the morning came the woman , and took the children out of their beds . 
Their bit of bread was given to them , but it was still smaller than the time before . 
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest , where they had never in their lives been before . 
'' When it was noon , Grethel shared her piece of bread with Hansel , who had scattered his by the way . 
Then they fell asleep , and evening came and went , but no one came to the poor children . 
Hansel said to Grethel , We shall soon find the way . 
'' But they did not find it . 
And as they were so tired that their legs would carry them no longer , they lay down under a tree and fell asleep . 
It was now three mornings since they had left their father's house . 
They began to walk again , but they always got deeper into the forest , and if help did not come soon , they must die of hunger and weariness . 
When it was midday , they saw a beautiful snow white bird sitting on a bough . 
It sang so sweetly that they stood still and listened to it . 
We will set to work on that , '' said Hansel , and have a good meal . 
I will eat a bit of the roof , and you , Grethel , can eat some of the window , it will taste sweet . 
'' Hansel reached up , and broke off a little of the roof to try how it tasted , and Grethel leaned against the window and nibbled at the panes . 
All at once the door opened , and a very , very old woman , who leaned on crutches , came creeping out . 
Hansel and Grethel were so scared that they let fall what they had in their hands . 
The old woman , however , nodded her head , and said , Oh , you dear children , who has brought you here ? Do come in , and stay with me . 
No harm shall happen to you . 
'' She took them both by the hand , and led them into her little house . 
Then good food was set before them , milk and pancakes , with sugar , apples , and nuts . 
Afterwards two pretty little beds were covered with clean white linen , and Hansel and Grethel lay down in them , and thought they were in heaven . 
He might scream as he liked , it was of no use . 
When he is fat , I will eat him . 
'' Grethel began to weep , but it was all in vain she was forced to do what the wicked witch told her . 
And now the best food was cooked for poor Hansel , but Grethel got nothing but crab shells . 
Every morning the woman crept to the little stable , and cried , Hansel , stretch out your finger that I may feel if you will soon be fat . 
When four weeks had gone by , and Hansel still was thin , she could wait no longer . 
Come , Grethel , '' she cried to the girl , fly round and bring some water . 
Let Hansel be fat or lean , to morrow I will kill him , and cook him . 
If the wild beasts in the forest had but eaten us , we should at any rate have died together . 
'' Just keep your noise to yourself , '' said the old woman all that won't help you at all . 
'' Early in the morning , Grethel had to go out and hang up the kettle with the water , and light the fire . 
We will bake first , '' said the old woman . 
I have already heated the oven , and got the dough ready . 
'' She pushed poor Grethel out to the oven , from which the flames of fire were already darting . 
Creep in , '' said the witch , and see if it is heated , so that we can shut the bread in . 
'' And when once Grethel was inside , she meant to shut the oven and let her bake in it , and then she would eat her , too . 
The door is big enough just look , I can get in myself ! '' and she crept up and thrust her head into the oven . 
Then Grethel gave her a push that drove her far into it , and shut the iron door , tight . 
How they did dance about and kiss each other . 
And as they had no longer any need to fear her , they went into the witch's house , and in every corner there stood chests full of pearls and jewels . 
But now we will go away , '' said Hansel , that we may get out of the witch's forest . 
'' When they had walked for two hours , they came to a great piece of water . 
We cannot get over , '' said Hansel I see no foot plank and no bridge . 
'' And no boat crosses , either , '' answered Grethel , but a white duck is swimming there if I ask her , she will help us over . 
'' The duck came to them , and Hansel sat on its back , and told his sister to sit by him . 
No , '' replied Grethel , that will be too heavy for the little duck she shall take us across , one after the other . 
Then they began to run , rushed in , and threw themselves into their father's arms . 
The man had not known one happy hour since he had left the children in the forest the woman , however , was dead . 
Grethel emptied her pinafore until pearls and precious stones rolled about the floor , and Hansel threw one handful after another out of his pocket to add to them . 
Then all care was at an end , and they lived happily together ever after . 
My tale is done there runs a mouse whosoever catches it may make himself a big fur cap out of it . 
Once upon a time there was a rich farmer who had a thrifty wife . 
She used to go out and gather all the little bits of wool which she could find on the hillsides , and bring them home . 
Who is there ? '' cried she . 
Tell Quary , good housewife , '' answered a wee , wee voice . 
Open the door to me . 
As long as I have you'll get . 
'' She opened the door and there on the threshold stood a queer , little woman , dressed in a green gown and wearing a white cap on her head . 
The good housewife was so astonished that she stood and stared at her strange visitor but without a word the little woman ran past her , and seated herself at the spinning wheel . 
The good housewife shut the door , but just then she heard another knock . 
Who is there ? '' said she . 
Tell Quary , good housewife . 
Open the door to me , '' said another wee , wee voice . 
As long as I have you'll get . 
'' And when she opened the door there was another queer , little woman , in a lilac frock and a green cap , standing on the threshold . 
She , too , ran into the house without waiting to say , By your leave , '' and picking up the distaff , began to put some wool on it . 
The kitchen was alive with them . 
Some of them hung the great pot over the fire to boil water to wash the wool that was dirty . 
Some teased the clean wool , and some carded it . 
Some spun it into yarn , and some wove the yarn into great webs of cloth . 
And the noise they made was like to make her head run round . 
Splash ! splash ! Whirr ! whirr ! Clack ! clack ! '' The water in the pot bubbled over . 
The shuttle in the loom flew backwards and forwards . 
At last the poor woman was so troubled that she went into the next room to wake her husband . 
But although she shook him with all her might , she could not wake him . 
It was very plain to see that he was bewitched . 
She knocked at his door till he got up and put his head out of the window , to see who was there then she told him the whole story . 
When they are all out of the cottage , do thou slip in as quickly as thou canst , and turn the kitchen upside down . 
Upset everything the Fairies have worked with , else the things their fingers have touched will open the door to them , and let them in , in spite of thee . 
'' So the good housewife hurried away . 
She took the band off the spinning wheel , and twisted the head of the distaff the wrong way . 
She lifted the pot of fulling water off the fire , and turned the room topsy turvy , and threw down the carding combs . 
Scarcely had she done so , when the Fairies returned , and knocked at the door . 
Good housewife ! let us in , '' they cried . 
The door is shut and bolted , and I will not open it , '' answered she . 
Good spinning wheel , get up and open the door , '' they cried . 
How can I , '' answered the spinning wheel , seeing that my band is undone ? '' Kind distaff , open the door for us , '' said they . 
That would I gladly do , '' said the distaff , but I cannot walk , for my head is turned the wrong way . 
'' Weaving loom , have pity , and open the door . 
'' I am all topsy turvy , and cannot move , '' sighed the loom . 
Fulling water , open the door , '' they implored . 
I am off the fire , '' growled the fulling water , and all my strength is gone . 
'' Oh ! Is there nothing that will come to our aid , and open the door ? '' they cried . 
I will , '' said a little barley bannock , that had lain hidden , toasting on the hearth and it rose and trundled like a wheel quickly across the floor . 
Then all of a sudden the good housewife remembered what the Wise Man had said about the fulling water . 
She ran to the kitchen and lifted a cupful out of the pot , and carried it in , and threw it over the bed where her husband was . 
In an instant he woke up in his right senses . 
Then he jumped out of bed , ran across the room and opened the door , and the Fairies vanished . 
And they have never been seen from that day to this . 
THE KING OF THE CATS AN ENGLISH FOLK TALE BY ERNEST RHYS Once upon a time there were two brothers who lived in a lonely house in a very lonely part of Scotland . 
An old woman used to do the cooking , and there was no one else , unless we count her cat and their own dogs , within miles of them . 
At last Fergus returned , wet and exhausted , nor did he explain why he was so late . 
You must be wondering , '' said he , what made me so late . 
I have had a very , very strange adventure to day . 
I hardly know what to say about it . 
I went , as I told you I should , along our yesterday's track . 
A mountain fog came on just as I was about to turn homewards , and I completely lost my way . 
I wandered about for a long time not knowing where I was , till at last I saw a light , and made for it , hoping to get help . 
As I came near it , it disappeared , and I found myself close to an old oak tree . 
I climbed into the branches the better to look for the light , and , behold ! there it was right beneath me , inside the hollow trunk of the tree . 
I seemed to be looking down into a church , where a funeral was taking place . 
The dogs were sleeping quietly , but the cat was sitting up , and seemed to be listening just as carefully and cannily as Elshender himself . 
Both brothers , indeed , turned their eyes on the cat as Fergus took up his story . 
Yes , '' he continued , it is as true as I sit here . 
In came a pair of broad , broad soles , and sat down at the fireside ! And still she sat , and still she reeled , and still she wished for company . 
In came a huge , huge head , and sat down on the small , small neck ! . 
How did you get such broad , broad feet ? '' quoth the Woman . 
In the kingdom of England there is a hillock in the midst of a dense wood . 
Thither in old days knights and their followers were wont to repair when tired and thirsty after the chase . 
The Goblin presented the horn to the thirsty knight , who drank and instantly felt refreshed and cool . 
After the drinker had emptied the horn , the Goblin offered a silken napkin to wipe the mouth . 
Then , without waiting to be thanked , the strange creature vanished as suddenly as he had come . 
Now once there was a knight of churlish nature , who was hunting alone in those parts . 
Feeling thirsty and fatigued , he visited the hillock and cried out I thirst ! '' Instantly the Goblin appeared and presented the horn . 
When the knight had drained it of its delicious beverage , instead of returning the horn , he thrust it into his bosom , and rode hastily away . 
But never again did the benevolent Goblin return to the hillock in the wood . 
There was once in Great Britain , a knight named Albert , strong in arms and adorned with every virtue . 
One day as he was seeking for adventure , he chanced to wander into a castle where he was hospitably entertained . 
At night , after supper , as was usual in great families during the winter , the household gathered about the hearth and occupied the time in relating divers tales . 
At last they told how in the near by plain of Wandlesbury there was a haunted mound . 
There in old days the Vandals , who laid waste the land and slaughtered Christians , had pitched their camp and built about it a great rampart . 
This phantom then attacked the knight who had cried out and speedily overcame him . 
Now , when Albert heard this marvelous tale , he greatly doubted its truth , and was determined to put the matter to a test . 
This phantom rushed upon Albert , who spurred his horse , extended his shield , and drove at his antagonist with his lance . 
Both knights were shaken by the encounter . 
Albert , however , so resolutely and with so strong an arm pressed his adversary that the latter was thrown violently to the ground . 
Seeing this Albert hastily seized the steed of the fallen knight , and started to leave the mound . 
But the phantom , rising to his feet , and seeing his horse led away , flung his lance and cruelly wounded Albert in the thigh . 
This done he vanished as suddenly as he had appeared . 
Our knight , overjoyed at his victory , returned in triumph to the castle , where the household crowded around him and praised his bravery . 
But when he put off his armor he found the cuish from his right thigh filled with clots of blood from an angry wound in his side . 
The family , alarmed , hastened to apply healing herbs and bandages . 
The captured horse was then brought forward . 
He was prodigiously large , and black as jet . 
His eyes were fierce and flashing , his neck proudly arched , and he wore a glittering war saddle upon his back . 
The black cock of the castle crew and the horse , uttering a terrible cry , instantly disappeared . 
And every year , on the selfsame night , at the selfsame hour , the wounds of the knight Albert broke out afresh , and tormented him with agony . 
Thus till his dying day he bore in his body a yearly reminder of his encounter with the Phantom Knight of the Vandal Camp . 
After prayer and fasting and a farewell feast , the Pilgrim Fathers left the City of Leyden , and sought the new and unknown land . 
'' When , after many vexing days upon the deep , the pilgrims first sighted the New World , they were filled with praise and thanksgiving . 
Going ashore they fell upon their knees and blessed the God of Heaven . 
And after that , whenever they were delivered from accidents or despair , they gave God solemne thanks and praise . 
'' Such were the Pilgrims and such their habit day by day . 
The first winter in the New World was marked by great suffering and want . 
Hunger and illness thinned the little colony , and caused many graves to be made on the near by hillside . 
The seed was sown in the fields . 
The colonists cared for it without ceasing , and watched its growth with anxiety for well they knew that their lives depended upon a full harvest . 
The days of spring and summer flew by , and the autumn came . 
Never in Holland or England had the Pilgrims seen the like of the treasures bounteous Nature now spread before them . 
The woodlands were arrayed in gorgeous colors , brown , crimson , and gold , and swarmed with game of all kinds , that had been concealed during the summer . 
The little farm plots had been blessed by the sunshine and showers , and now plentiful crops stood ready for the gathering . 
The Pilgrims , rejoicing , reaped the fruit of their labors , and housed it carefully for the winter . 
Then , filled with the spirit of thanksgiving , they held the first harvest home in New England . 
For one whole week they rested from work , feasted , exercised their arms , and enjoyed various recreations . 
Many Indians visited the colony , amongst these their greatest king , Massasoit , with ninety of his braves . 
The Pilgrims entertained them for three days . 
And the Indians went out into the woods and killed fine deer , which they brought to the colony and presented to the governor and the captain and others . 
So all made merry together . 
And bountiful was the feast . 
Oysters , fish and wild turkey , Indian maize and barley bread , geese and ducks , venison and other savory meats , decked the board . 
Kettles , skillets , and spits were overworked , while knives and spoons , kindly assisted by fingers , made merry music on pewter plates . 
Wild grapes , very sweete and strong , '' added zest to the feast . 
'' Thus a royal feast it was the Pilgrims spread that first golden autumn at Plymouth , a feast worthy of their Indian guests . 
All slumbering discontents they smothered with common rejoicings . 
When the holiday was over , they were surely better , braver men because they had turned aside to rest awhile and be thankful together . 
So the exiles of Leyden claimed the harvests of New England . 
This festival was the bursting into life of a new conception of man's dependence on God's gifts in Nature . 
It was the promise of autumnal Thanksgivings to come . 
THE MASTER OF THE HARVEST BY MRS . 
The Master of the Harvest walked by the side of his cornfields in the springtime . 
A frown was on his face , for there had been no rain for several weeks , and the earth was hard from the parching of the east winds . 
The young wheat had not been able to spring up . 
And the Master's discontent was whispered all over the field , and along the ridges where the corn seed lay . 
Going to his comfortable home he repeated to his wife the dark words , that the drought would ruin the harvest , for the corn was not yet sprung up . 
Then his wife spoke cheering words , and taking her Bible she wrote some texts upon the flyleaf , and after them the date of the day . 
And the words she wrote were these The eyes of all wait upon Thee and Thou givest them their meat in due season . 
Thou openest Thine hand and satisfiest the desire of every living thing . 
How excellent is Thy loving kindness , O God ! therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of Thy wings . 
Thou hast put gladness in my heart , more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased . 
'' And so a few days passed as before , and the house was gloomy with the discontent of the Master . 
The young shoots burst out at once , and very soon all along the ridges were to be seen rows of tender blades , tinting the whole field with a delicate green . 
And day by day the Master of the Harvest saw them , and was satisfied , but he spoke of other things and forgot to rejoice . 
Then a murmur rose among the corn blades . 
Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds , or the noise of his tabernacle ? '' Very peaceful were the next few weeks . 
All nature seemed to rejoice in the fine weather . 
The corn blades shot up strong and tall . 
They burst into flowers and gradually ripened into ears of grain . 
But alas ! the Master of the Harvest had still some fault to find . 
He looked at the ears and saw that they were small . 
He grumbled and said The yield will be less than it ought to be . 
The harvest will be bad . 
'' And the voice of his discontent was breathed over the cornfield where the plants were growing and growing . 
Rain was needed , so that the corn ears might fill . 
And such a storm ! Along the ridges of corn plants drove the rain laden wind , and the plants bent down before it and rose again like the waves of the sea . 
They bowed down and they rose up . 
Only where the whirlwind was the strongest they fell to the ground and could not rise again . 
His face grew darker than ever . 
He railed against the rain . 
He railed against the sun because it did not shine . 
He blamed the wheat because it might perish before the harvest . 
But why does he always complain ? '' moaned the corn plants . 
But his wife wrote on the flyleaf of her Book He watereth the hills from his chambers , the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works . 
'' And day by day the hours of sunshine were more in number . 
And by degrees the green corn ears ripened into yellow , and the yellow turned into gold , and the abundant harvest was ready , and the laborers were not wanting . 
Then the bursting corn broke out into songs of rejoicing . 
Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly thou settlest the furrows thereof thou makest it soft with showers thou blessest the springing thereof . 
Thou crownest the year with thy goodness , and thy paths drop fatness . 
They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness , and the little hills rejoice on every side . 
The pastures are clothed with flocks . 
The valleys also are covered over with corn they shout for joy , they also sing . 
Once upon a time , the good Saint Cuthbert of Lindesfarne , went forth from his monastery to preach to the poor . 
He took with him a young lad as his only attendant . 
Together they walked along the dusty way . 
The heat of the noonday sun beat upon their heads , and fatigue overcame them . 
'' While they were talking thus , they came to a river , and , lo ! the eagle stood on the bank . 
Son , '' said Saint Cuthbert , run and see what provision God has made for us by his handmaid the bird . 
'' The lad ran , and found a good sized fish that the eagle had just caught . 
This he brought to the saint . 
'' The lad did as he was bidden , and the eagle , taking the half fish in her beak , flew away . 
Ages upon ages ago , says the German grandmother , when angels used to wander on earth , the ground was more fruitful than it is now . 
Then the stalks of wheat bore not fifty or sixty fold , but four times five hundred fold . 
Then the wheat ears grew from the bottom to the top of the stalk . 
But the men of the earth forgot that this blessing came from God , and they became idle and selfish . 
One day a woman went through a wheat field , and her little child , who accompanied her , fell into a puddle and soiled her frock . 
The mother tore off a handful of the wheat ears and cleaned the child's dress with them . 
Just then an angel passed by and saw her . 
Wrathfully he spoke Wasteful woman , no longer shall the wheat stalks produce ears . 
The angel pitied their distress , and granted a part of the prayer . 
And from that day to this the ears of wheat have grown as they do now . 
Long , long ago , in a beautiful part of this country , there lived an Indian with his wife and children . 
He was poor and found it hard to provide food enough for his family . 
But though needy he was kind and contented , and always gave thanks to the Great Spirit for everything that he received . 
His eldest son , Wunzh , was likewise kind and gentle and thankful of heart , and he longed greatly to do something for his people . 
The time came that Wunzh reached the age when every Indian boy fasts so that he may see in a vision the Spirit that is to be his guide through life . 
Wunph's father built him a little lodge apart , so that the boy might rest there undisturbed during his days of fasting . 
Then Wunzh withdrew to begin the solemn rite . 
He saw how the flowers and herbs and berries grew , and he knew that some were good for food , and that others healed wounds and cured sickness . 
And his heart was filled with even a greater longing to do something for his family and his tribe . 
Truly , '' thought he , the Great Spirit made all things . 
To Him we owe our lives . 
But could He not make it easier for us to get our food than by hunting and catching fish ? I must try to find this out in my vision . 
'' So Wunzh returned to his lodge and fasted and slept . 
On the third day he became weak and faint . 
Soon he saw in a vision a young brave coming down from the sky and approaching the lodge . 
He was clad in rich garments of green and yellow colors . 
On his head was a tuft of nodding green plumes , and all his motions were graceful and swaying . 
I am sent to you , O Wunzh , '' said the sky stranger , by that Great Spirit who made all things in sky and earth . 
I am sent to tell you how you may do good to your kindred . 
Arise and wrestle with me , for only by overcoming me may you learn the secret . 
'' Wunzh , though he was weak from fasting , felt courage grow in his heart , and he arose and wrestled with the stranger . 
'' And he vanished as suddenly as he had appeared . 
The next day the stranger came , and Wunzh felt himself weaker than before nevertheless he rose and wrestled bravely . 
Then the stranger spoke a second time . 
My friend , '' he said , have courage ! To morrow will be your last trial . 
'' And he disappeared from Wunzh's sight . 
On the third day the stranger came as before , and the struggle was renewed . 
And Wunzh , though fainter in body , grew strong in mind and will , and he determined to win or perish in the attempt . 
He exerted all his powers , and , lo ! in a while , he prevailed and overcame the stranger . 
O Wunzh , my friend , '' said the conquered one , you have wrestled manfully . 
You have met your trial well . 
To morrow I shall come again and you must wrestle with me for the last time . 
Do you then strip off my garments , throw me down , clean the earth of roots and weeds , and bury me in that spot . 
When you have done so , leave my body in the ground . 
Come often to the place and see whether I have come to life , but be careful not to let weeds or grass grow on my grave . 
If you do all this well , you will soon discover how to benefit your fellow creatures . 
'' Having said this the stranger disappeared . 
In the morning Wunzh's father came to him with food . 
My son , '' he said , you have fasted long . 
It is seven days since you have tasted food , and you must not sacrifice your life . 
The Master of Life does not require that . 
'' My father , '' replied the boy , wait until the sun goes down to morrow . 
For a certain reason I wish to fast until that hour . 
'' Very well , '' said the old man , I shall wait until the time arrives when you feel inclined to eat . 
'' And he went away . 
The next day , at the usual hour , the sky stranger came again . 
And , though Wunzh had fasted seven days , he felt a new power arise within him . 
He grasped the stranger with superhuman strength , and threw him down . 
He took from him his beautiful garments , and , finding him dead , buried him in the softened earth , and did all else as he had been directed . 
He then returned to his father's lodge , and partook sparingly of food . 
There he abode for some time . 
But he never forgot the grave of his friend . 
Daily he visited it , and pulled up the weeds and grass , and kept the earth soft and moist . 
Very soon , to his great wonder , he saw the tops of green plumes coming through the ground . 
Weeks passed by , the summer was drawing to a close . 
One day Wunzh asked his father to follow him . 
He led him to a distant meadow . 
There , in the place where the stranger had been buried , stood a tall and graceful plant , with bright colored , silken hair , and crowned by nodding green plumes . 
The Great Spirit has heard my voice and has sent us this food . 
'' Then the whole family feasted on the ears of corn and thanked the Great Spirit who gave it . 
So Indian Corn came into the world . 
Two boys gathered some hazelnuts in the woods . 
They sat down under a tree and tried to eat them , but they did not have their knives , and could not bite open the nuts with their teeth . 
Oh , '' they complained , if only some one would come and open the nuts for us ! '' Hardly had they said this when a little man came through the woods . 
And such a strange little man ! He had a great , great head , and from the back of it a slender pigtail hung down to his heels . 
He wore a golden cap , a red coat and yellow stockings . 
They called out to him If you know how to crack nuts , why , come here and open ours . 
'' But the little man grumbled through his long white beard If I crack the nuts for you Promise that you'll give me two . 
'' The boys did as they were told , laughing hard all the time . 
Whenever they pulled down the pigtail , there was a sharp CRACK , and a broken nut sprang out of the Nutcracker's mouth . 
As for you , Nutcracker , go away from here and find some for yourself . 
The Nutcracker grew red with rage . 
He pulled up his pigtail , snapping his jaws together , CRACK , and the bad boy's head was off . 
So having purchased a vessel , he strengthened it for a voyage , that he knew would without doubt be long and stormy . 
All this being done , he set sail . 
For many days he and his companions voyaged on deep waters and in strange seas . 
At times the wind was fair and gentle , and at others it blew so hard that the sea rose in a terrible manner . 
One day there came a violent whirlwind which twisted the ship about , and , lifting it into the air , carried it upward into the sky , until it reached the Moon . 
There Lucian and his comrades disembarked and visited the inhabitants of Moonland . 
Then the wind dropping , the ship settled once more upon the sea , and they sailed on the water . 
One morning the wind began to blow vehemently , and they were driven by storm for days . 
On the third day they fell in with the Pumpkin Pirates . 
These were savages who were wont to sally forth from the islands that lay in the seas thereabouts , and plunder them that sailed by . 
For ships they had large pumpkins , each being not less than ninety feet in length . 
These pumpkins they dried , and afterward dug out all the inner part of them till they were quite hollow . 
For masts they had reeds , and for sails , in the place of canvas , pumpkin leaves . 
These savages attacked Lucian's vessel with two ships' or rather two pumpkins' crews , and wounded many of his company . 
For stones they used the pumpkin seeds , which were about the bigness of a large apple . 
Lucian's company fought for some time , without gaining the advantage , when about noon they saw coming toward them , in the rear of the Pumpkin Pirates , the Nut Shell Sailors . 
These two tribes were at war with each other . 
As soon as the Pumpkin Pirates saw the others approaching , they left off fighting Lucian's crew , and prepared to give battle to the Nut Shell Sailors . 
When Lucian saw this he ordered the captain to set all sails and they departed with speed . 
As for their ships , they were the shells of nuts which had been split in half , each measuring fifteen fathoms , or thereabouts . 
As soon as the Pumpkin Pirates and the Nut Shell Sailors were out of sight , Lucian set himself to dressing the wounds of his injured companions . 
And from that time on both Lucian and his crew wore their armor continually , not knowing when another strange enemy might come upon them . 
Its stalks grew strong and tall , and were covered with leaves like waving banners , and filled with ears of pearly grain wrapped in silken green husks . 
In those days Onatah , the Spirit of the Corn , walked upon the earth . 
The sun lovingly touched her dusky face with the blush of the morning , and her eyes grew soft as the gleam of the stars on dark streams . 
Her night black hair was spread before the breeze like a wind driven cloud . 
As she walked through the fields , the corn , the Indian maize , sprang up of itself from the earth and filled the air with its fringed tassels and whispering leaves . 
With Onatah walked her two sisters , the Spirits of the Squash and the Bean . 
As they passed by , squash vines and bean plants grew from the corn hills . 
One day Onatah wandered away alone in search of early dew . 
Then the Evil One of the earth , Hahgwehdaetgah , followed swiftly after . 
He grasped her by the hair and dragged her beneath the ground down to his gloomy cave . 
Then , sending out his fire breathing monsters , he blighted Onatah's grain . 
And when her sisters , the Spirits of the Squash and the Bean , saw the flame monsters raging through the fields , they flew far away in terror . 
As for poor Onatah , she lay a trembling captive in the dark prison cave of the Evil One . 
She mourned the blight of her cornfields , and sorrowed over her runaway sisters . 
The sun , who loved Onatah , sent out many searching beams of light . 
They pierced through the damp earth , and entering the prison cave , guided her back again to her fields . 
And ever after that she watched her fields alone , for no more did her sisters , the Spirits of the Squash and Bean , watch with her . 
If her fields thirsted , no longer could she seek the early dew . 
If the flame monsters burned her corn , she could not search the skies for cooling winds . 
And when the great rains fell and injured her harvest , her voice grew so faint that the friendly sun could not hear it . 
But ever Onatah tenderly watched her fields and the little birds of the air flocked to her service . 
They followed her through the rows of corn , and made war on the tiny enemies that gnawed at the roots of the grain . 
Aeneus , King of Aetolia , had a daughter whose name was Deianira . 
So beautiful was the maiden that her fame spread throughout the world , and many princes came to woo her . 
Among these were two strangers , who drove all the other suitors from the hall of King Aeneus . 
One was Hercules , huge of limb and broad of shoulder . 
He was clad in the skins of beasts , and carried in his hand a knotted club . 
His tangled hair hung down upon his brawny neck , and his fierce eyes gleamed from behind his shaggy brows . 
The other stranger was Achelous , god of the Calydonian River . 
Slender and graceful was he , and clad in flowing green raiment . 
In his hand he carried a staff of plaited reeds , and on his head was a crown of water lilies . 
His voice was soft and caressing , like the gentle murmur of summer brooks . 
O King Aeneus , '' said Achelous , standing before the throne , behold I am the King of Waters . 
If thou wilt receive me as thy son in law I will make the beautiful Deianira queen of my river kingdom . 
'' King Aeneus , '' said the mighty Hercules , stepping forward , Deianira is mine , and I will not yield her to this river god . 
I make all fields through which I flow beautiful with grass and flowers . 
By my right divine I claim this maiden . 
'' But with scowling eye and rising wrath Hercules made answer . 
Thou wouldst fight with words , like a woman , while I would win by my strength ! My right hand is better than my tongue . 
If thou wouldst have the maiden , then must thou first overcome me in combat . 
'' Thereupon Achelous threw off his raiment and began to prepare himself for the struggle . 
Hercules took off his garment of beasts' skins , and cast aside his club . 
The two then anointed their bodies with oil , and threw yellow sand upon themselves . 
They took their places , they attacked , they retired , they rushed again to the conflict . 
They stood firm , and they yielded not . 
Long they bravely wrestled and fought till at length Hercules by his might overcame Achelous and bore him to the ground . 
He pressed him down , and , while the fallen river god lay panting for breath , the hero seized him by the neck . 
Then did Achelous have recourse to his magic arts . 
Transforming himself into a serpent he escaped from the hero . 
He twisted his body into winding folds , and darted out his forked tongue with frightful hissings . 
And Achelous struggled in vain to escape . 
Then , again having recourse to his magic , he became a raging bull , and renewed the fight . 
But Hercules , that mighty hero , threw his huge arms over the brawny neck of the bull , and dragged him about . 
Then seizing hold of his horns , he bent his head to one side , and bearing down fastened them into the ground . 
And that was not enough , but with relentless hand he broke one of the horns , and tore it from Achelous's forehead . 
The river god returned to his own shape . 
He roared aloud with rage and pain , and hiding his mutilated head in his mantle , rushed from the hall and plunged into the swirling waters of his stream . 
Then the goddess of Plenty , and all the Wood Nymphs and Water Nymphs came forward to greet the conqueror with song and dance . 
They took the huge horn of Achelous and heaped it high with the rich and glowing fruits and flowers of autumn . 
They wreathed it with vines and with clustering grapes , and bearing it aloft presented it to Hercules and his beautiful bride Deianira . 
And ever since that day has the Horn of Plenty gladdened men's hearts at Harvest Time . 
LITTLE PICCOLA AFTER CELIA THAXTER In the sunny land of France there lived many years ago a sweet little maid named Piccola . 
Her father had died when she was a baby , and her mother was very poor and had to work hard all day in the fields for a few sous . 
Little Piccola had no dolls and toys , and she was often hungry and cold , but she was never sad nor lonely . 
The snow birds had to be fed with crumbs , if she could find any , and then , there was Christmas Day . 
But one year her mother was ill and could not earn any money . 
Piccola worked hard all the day long , and sold the stockings which she knit , even when her own little bare feet were blue with the cold . 
As Christmas Day drew near she said to her mother , I wonder what the good Saint Nicholas will bring me this year . 
I cannot hang my stocking in the fireplace , but I shall put my wooden shoe on the hearth for him . 
He will not forget me , I am sure . 
'' Do not think of it this year , my dear child , '' replied her mother . 
We must be glad if we have bread enough to eat . 
'' But Piccola could not believe that the good saint would forget her . 
On Christmas Eve she put her little wooden patten on the hearth before the fire , and went to sleep to dream of Saint Nicholas . 
There was nothing in the house but a few sous , and these must be saved to buy bread . 
When the morning dawned Piccola awoke and ran to her shoe . 
Saint Nicholas had come in the night . 
He had not forgotten the little child who had thought of him with such faith . 
See what he had brought her . 
It lay in the wooden patten , looking up at her with its two bright eyes , and chirping contentedly as she stroked its soft feathers . 
A little swallow , cold and hungry , had flown into the chimney and down to the room , and had crept into the shoe for warmth . 
Piccola danced for joy , and clasped the shivering swallow to her breast . 
She ran to her mother's bedside . 
Look , look ! '' she cried . 
A Christmas gift , a gift from the good Saint Nicholas ! '' And she danced again in her little bare feet . 
There once lived a laborer who earned his daily bread by cutting wood . 
His wife and two children , a boy and girl , helped him with his work . 
The boy's name was Valentine , and the girl's , Marie . 
They were obedient and pious and the joy and comfort of their poor parents . 
One winter evening , this good family gathered about the table to eat their small loaf of bread , while the father read aloud from the Bible . 
'' The stranger Child entered , and going to the fire began to warm his cold hands . 
'' Then answered the stranger Child May God in Heaven reward you for your kindness . 
'' Valentine rubbed his eyes and listened . 
He heard the most wonderful singing and the sweet notes of many harps . 
Blessed Child , Thee we greet , With sound of harp And singing sweet . 
Sleep in peace , Child so bright , We have watched thee All the night . 
Blest the home That holdeth Thee , Peace , and love , Its guardians be . 
'' The children listened to the beautiful singing , and it seemed to fill them with unspeakable happiness . 
Then creeping to the window they looked out . 
He was clad in a golden garment , and wore a glistening , golden crown upon his soft hair . 
Sweetly he spoke to the children I am the Christ Child , who wanders about the world seeking to bring joy and good things to loving children . 
Because you have lodged me this night I will leave with you my blessing . 
'' Having said this He vanished from their sight , together with the silver clad , singing children the angels . 
And after that , every year at Christmas time , the Tree bore the same wonderful fruit . 
Christopher was a Canaanite , and he was of a right great stature , twelve cubits in height , and had a terrible countenance . 
So he went forth and came to a right great king , whom fame said was the greatest of the world . 
And when the king saw him he received him into his service , and made him to dwell in his court . 
Upon a time a minstrel sang before him a song in which he named oft the devil . 
And the king , who was a Christian , when he heard him name the devil , made anon the sign of the cross . 
And when Christopher saw that he marveled , and asked what the sign might mean . 
And because the king would not say , he said If thou tell me not , I shall no longer dwell with thee . 
'' And then the King told him , saying Alway when I hear the devil named make I this sign lest he grieve or annoy me . 
'' Then said Christopher to him Fearest thou the devil ? Then is the devil more mighty and greater than thou art . 
'' So Christopher departed from this king and hastened to seek the devil . 
And Christopher answered I go to seek the devil for to be my master . 
'' Then said the knight I am he that thou seekest . 
'' And then Christopher was glad and bound himself to be the devil's servant , and took him for his master and lord . 
Now , as they went along the way they found there a cross , erect and standing . 
And anon as the devil saw the cross he was afeared and fled . 
And when Christopher saw that he marveled and demanded why he was afeared , and why he fled away . 
And the devil would not tell him in no wise . 
Then Christopher said to him If thou wilt not tell me , I shall anon depart from thee and shall serve thee no more . 
I will serve thee no longer , but I will go seek Christ . 
'' And when Christopher had long sought where he should find Christ , at last he came into a great desert , to a hermit that dwelt there . 
And he inquired of him where Christ was to be found . 
Then answered the hermit The king whom thou desirest to serve , requireth that thou must often fast . 
'' Christopher said Require of me some other thing and I shall do it , but fast I may not . 
'' And the hermit said Thou must then wake and make many prayers . 
'' And Christopher said I do not know how to pray , so this I may not do . 
And this thing will be pleasing to our Lord Jesu Christ , whom thou desirest to serve , and I hope he shall show himself to thee . 
'' Then said Christopher Certes , this service may I well do , and I promise Him to do it . 
'' Then went Christopher to this river , and built himself there a hut . 
He carried a great pole in his hand , to support himself in the water , and bore over on his shoulders all manner of people to the other side . 
And there he abode , thus doing many days . 
And on a time , as he slept in his hut , he heard the voice of a child which called him Christopher , Christopher , come out and bear me over . 
'' Then he awoke and went out , but he found no man . 
And when he was again in his house he heard the same voice , crying Christopher , Christopher , come out and bear me over . 
'' And he ran out and found nobody . 
And the third time he was called and ran thither , and he found a Child by the brink of the river , which prayed him goodly to bear him over the water . 
And then Christopher lifted up the Child on his shoulders , and took his staff , and entered into the river for to pass over . 
And when he was escaped with great pain , and passed over the water , and set the Child aground , he said Child , thou hast put me in great peril . 
Thou weighest almost as I had all the world upon me . 
I might bear no greater burden . 
I am Jesu Christ the King whom thou servest . 
'' And anon the Child vanished from his eyes . 
And then Christopher set his staff in the earth , and when he arose on the morn , he found his staff bearing flowers , leaves , and dates . 
She , too , had sought the Christ Child . 
She , too , desired to bring him gifts . 
But she had nothing to offer , for she was very poor indeed . 
In vain she had searched the countryside over for one little flower to bring Him , but she could find neither bloom nor leaf , for the winter had been cold . 
And as she stood there weeping , an angel passing saw her sorrow , and stooping he brushed aside the snow at her feet . 
And there sprang up on the spot a cluster of beautiful winter roses , waxen white with pink tipped petals . 
Nor myrrh , nor frankincense , nor gold , '' said the angel , is offering more meet for the Christ Child than these pure Christmas Roses . 
'' Joyfully the shepherd maiden gathered the flowers and made her offering to the Holy Child . 
But she wrangled so that the schoolmaster of the rich boys' school was forced to lower his price and admit little Wolff among his pupils . 
On the Eve of the great Day the schoolmaster was to take all his pupils to the midnight mass , and then to conduct them home again to their parents' houses . 
Only little Wolff presented himself shivering in his thin everyday clothes , and wearing on his feet socks and wooden shoes . 
Then the band of boys , marching two by two , started for the parish church . 
It was comfortable inside the church , which was brilliant with lighted tapers . 
And the pupils , made lively by the gentle warmth , the sound of the organ , and the singing of the choir , began to chatter in low tones . 
They boasted of the midnight treats awaiting them at home . 
The son of the Mayor had seen , before leaving the house , a monstrous goose larded with truffles so that it looked like a black spotted leopard . 
Another boy told of the fir tree waiting for him , on the branches of which hung oranges , sugar plums , and punchinellos . 
The midnight mass was ended . 
The worshipers hurried away , anxious to enjoy the treats awaiting them in their homes . 
The band of pupils , two by two , following the schoolmaster , passed out of the church . 
He was not a beggar , for his dress was clean and new , and beside him upon the ground , tied in a cloth , were the tools of a carpenter's apprentice . 
Some , the sons of the greatest men in the city , cast looks of scorn on the barefooted one . 
But little Wolff , coming last out of the church , stopped deeply moved before the beautiful , sleeping child . 
You good for nothing ! '' cried the old woman , full of rage as she saw that one of his shoes was gone . 
But the old miser burst into frightful laughter . 
'' And saying this the wicked woman gave him a box on each ear , and made him climb to his wretched room in the loft . 
There the heartbroken little one lay down in the darkness , and , drenching his pillow with tears , fell asleep . 
The old woman and the little boy went out to learn what it was all about , and saw the gossips gathered around the public fountain . 
But the little Pine wanted so very much to be a grown up tree . 
Oh , were I but such a big tree as the others are , '' sighed the little Tree . 
'' He had no delight at all in the sunshine , or in the birds , or the red clouds which morning and evening sailed above him . 
When now it was winter and the snow all around lay glittering white , a hare would often come leaping along , and jump right over the little Tree . 
Oh , that made him so angry ! But two winters went by , and with the third the Tree was so big that the hare had to go round it . 
These young trees , and they were always the finest looking , always kept their branches they were laid on carts , and the horses drew them out of the wood . 
Where are they going to ? '' asked the Pine Tree . 
We have peeped in at the windows down there in the town . 
We know where they are carrying them to . 
People that saw him said , That's a fine tree ! '' and toward Christmas he was the first that was cut down . 
The Tree only came to himself when he was unloaded in a courtyard with other trees , and heard a man say , That one is splendid ! we don't want the others . 
'' Then two servants came in rich livery and carried the Pine Tree into a large and splendid room . 
Portraits were hanging on the walls , and near the white porcelain stove stood two large Chinese vases with lions on the covers . 
Oh , how the Tree quivered ! What was to happen ? The servants , as well as the young ladies , dressed it . 
It was really splendid splendid beyond telling . 
III CHRISTMAS IN THE HOUSE The candles were now lighted . 
What brightness ! What splendor ! The Tree trembled so in every bough that one of the tapers set fire to a green branch . 
Now the Tree did not even dare to tremble . 
What are they about ? '' thought the Tree . 
A story ! a story ! '' cried the children , and they dragged a little fat man toward the Tree . 
He sat down under it , and said , Now we are in the shade , and the Tree can hear very well too . 
But I shall tell only one story . 
And the man told about Klumpy Dumpy who tumbled downstairs , and came to the throne after all , and married the princess . 
The Pine Tree stood quite still and thoughtful the birds in the wood had never told anything like this . 
To morrow I won't tremble ! '' thought the Pine Tree . 
I will enjoy to the full all my splendor ! To morrow I shall hear again the story of Klumpy Dumpy , and perhaps that of Ivedy Avedy too . 
'' And the whole night the Tree stood still in deep thought . 
In the morning the servant and the maid came in . 
IV IN THE ATTIC Now all the finery will begin again , '' thought the Pine . 
But they dragged him out of the room , and up the stairs into the attic and here in a dark corner , where no daylight could enter , they left him . 
What's the meaning of this ? '' thought the Tree . 
What am I to do here ? What shall I see and hear now , I wonder ? '' And he leaned against the wall and stood and thought and thought . 
There stood the Tree quite hidden it seemed as if he had been entirely forgotten . 
'T is now winter out of doors ! '' thought the Tree . 
It is terribly lonely here ! '' Squeak ! squeak ! '' said a little Mouse at the same moment , peeping out of his hole . 
And then another little one came . 
They snuffed about the Pine Tree , and rustled among the branches . 
It is dreadfully cold , '' said the little Mouse . 
But for that , it would be delightful here , old Pine , wouldn't it ! '' I am by no means old , '' said the Pine Tree . 
There are many a good deal older than I am . 
'' Where do you come from ? '' asked the Mice and what can you do ? '' They were so very curious . 
Tell us about the most beautiful spot on earth . 
But I know the wood where the sun shines , and where the little birds sing . 
Yes , really those were happy times . 
'' And then he told about Christmas Eve , when he was decked out with cakes and candles . 
Oh , '' said the little Mice , how lucky you have been , old Pine Tree ! '' I am not at all old , '' said he . 
I came from the wood this winter I am in my prime , and am only rather short of my age . 
Who is Klumpy Dumpy ? '' asked the little Mice . 
Do you know only that one story ? '' asked the Rats . 
Only that one ! '' answered the Tree . 
I heard it on my happiest evening but I did not then know how happy I was . 
'' It is a very stupid story ! Don't you know one about bacon and tallow candles ? Can't you tell any larder stories ? '' No , '' said the Tree . 
Thank you , then , '' said the Rats and they went home . 
At last the little Mice stayed away also and the Tree sighed After all , it was very pleasant when the sleek little Mice sat round me and heard what I told them . 
Now that too is over . 
But I will take good care to enjoy myself when I am brought out again . 
'' But when was that to be ? Why , it was one morning when there came a number of people and set to work in the loft . 
V OUT OF DOORS AGAIN Now life begins again , '' thought the Tree . 
He felt the fresh air , the first sunbeam , and now he was out in the courtyard . 
All passed so quickly that the Tree quite forgot to look to himself , there was so much going on around him . 
Now , I shall really live , '' said he with joy , and spread out his branches dear ! dear ! they were all dry and yellow . 
It was in a corner among weeds and nettles that he lay . 
The golden star of tinsel was still on top of the Tree , and shone in the bright sunshine . 
In the courtyard a few of the merry children were playing who had danced at Christmas round the Tree , and were so glad at the sight of him . 
One of the littlest ran and tore off the golden star . 
See what is still on the ugly old Christmas Tree ! '' said he , and he trampled on the branches , so that they cracked under his feet . 
Gone ! gone ! '' said the poor Tree . 
Had I but been happy when I could be . 
Gone ! gone ! '' And the gardener's boy came and chopped the Tree into small pieces there was a whole heap lying there . 
The wood flamed up finely under the large brewing kettle , and it sighed so deeply ! Each sigh was like a little shot . 
The boys played about in the court , and the youngest wore the gold star on his breast which the Tree had worn on the happiest evening of his life . 
Now , that was gone , the Tree was gone , and gone too was the story . 
All , all was gone , and that's the way with all stories . 
Once upon a time there stood in the midst of a bleak moor , in the North Country , a certain village . 
Their hut was built of clay and wattles . 
The door was low and always open , for there was no window . 
The roof did not entirely keep out the rain and the only thing comfortable was a wide fireplace , for which the brothers could never find wood enough to make sufficient fire . 
There they worked in most brotherly friendship , though with little encouragement . 
On one unlucky day a new cobbler arrived in the village . 
He had lived in the capital city of the kingdom and , by his own account , cobbled for the queen and the princesses . 
His awls were sharp , his lasts were new he set up his stall in a neat cottage with two windows . 
The villagers soon found out that one patch of his would outwear two of the brothers' . 
In short , all the mending left Scrub and Spare , and went to the new cobbler . 
The season had been wet and cold , their barley did not ripen well , and the cabbages never half closed in the garden . 
So the brothers were poor that winter , and when Christmas came they had nothing to feast on but a barley loaf and a piece of rusty bacon . 
Worse than that , the snow was very deep and they could get no firewood . 
Their hut stood at the end of the village beyond it spread the bleak moor , now all white and silent . 
But that moor had once been a forest great roots of old trees were still to be found in it , loosened from the soil and laid bare by the winds and rains . 
'' No , '' said Scrub , it's not right to chop wood on Christmas besides , that root is too hard to be broken with any hatchet . 
'' Hard or not , we must have a fire , '' replied Spare . 
Come , brother , help me in with it . 
Poor as we are there is nobody in the village will have such a yule log as ours . 
In high glee the cobblers sat down to their bread and bacon . 
Then suddenly from out the blazing root they heard Cuckoo ! cuckoo ! '' as plain as ever the spring bird's voice came over the moor on a May morning . 
What is that ? '' said Scrub , terribly frightened it is something bad ! '' Maybe not , '' said Spare . 
Much as the cobblers had been surprised , they were still more so when it said Good gentlemen , what season is this ? '' It's Christmas , '' said Spare . 
Then a merry Christmas to you ! '' said the cuckoo . 
I went to sleep in the hollow of that old root one evening last summer , and never woke till the heat of your fire made me think it was summer again . 
'' Stay and welcome , '' said Spare , while Scrub sat wondering if it were something bad or not . 
I'll make you a good warm hole in the thatch , '' said Spare . 
But you must be hungry after that long sleep , here is a slice of barley bread . 
Scrub said he was afraid it wouldn't be lucky but as it slept on and the days passed he forgot his fears . 
Now I'm going on my travels , '' said the bird , over the world to tell men of the spring . 
There is no country where trees bud , or flowers bloom , that I will not cry in before the year goes round . 
Give me another slice of barley bread to help me on my journey , and tell me what present I shall bring you at the twelvemonth's end . 
Every winter they fall into the well with a sound like scattered coin , and I know not what becomes of them . 
As for the other , it is always green like a laurel . 
Some call it the wise , and some the merry , tree . 
'' Good master cuckoo , bring me a leaf off that tree ! '' cried Spare . 
The brothers were poorer than ever that year . 
Nobody would send them a single shoe to mend , and Scrub and Spare would have left the village but for their barley field and their cabbage garden . 
They sowed their barley , planted their cabbage , and , now that their trade was gone , worked in the rich villagers' fields to make out a scanty living . 
So the seasons came and passed spring , summer , harvest , and winter followed each other as they have done from the beginning . 
Here , '' it said , giving the gold to Scrub and the green to Spare , it is a long carriage from the world's end . 
Give me a slice of barley bread , for I must tell the North Country that the spring has come . 
'' Scrub did not grudge the thickness of that slice , though it was cut from their last loaf . 
So much gold had never been in the cobbler's hands before , and he could not help exulting over his brother . 
See the wisdom of my choice , '' he said , holding up the large leaf of gold . 
As for yours , as good might be plucked from any hedge , I wonder a sensible bird would carry the like so far . 
'' Good master cobbler , '' cried the cuckoo , finishing its slice , your conclusions are more hasty than courteous . 
'' Darling cuckoo , '' cried Scrub , bring me a golden one . 
'' And Spare , looking up from the green leaf on which he gazed as though it were a crown jewel , said Be sure to bring me one from the merry tree . 
'' And away flew the cuckoo . 
This is the feast of All Fools , and it ought to be your birthday , '' said Scrub . 
The new cobbler immediately took him into partnership the greatest people sent him their shoes to mend . 
As for Scrub he established himself with Fairfeather in a cottage close by that of the new cobbler , and quite as fine . 
There he mended shoes to everybody's satisfaction , had a scarlet coat and a fat goose for dinner on holidays . 
Spare lived on in the old hut , and worked in the cabbage garden . 
Every day his coat grew more ragged , and the hut more weather beaten but people remarked that he never looked sad or sour . 
And the wonder was that , from the time any one began to keep his company , he or she grew kinder , happier , and content . 
Every first of April the cuckoo came tapping at their doors with the golden leaf for Scrub , and the green for Spare . 
Scrub spent the golden leaves , and remained always discontented and Spare kept the merry ones . 
I do not know how many years passed in this manner , when a certain great lord , who owned that village , came to the neighborhood . 
His castle stood on the moor . 
It was ancient and strong , with high towers and a deep moat . 
And there he lived in a very bad temper . 
The servants said nothing would please him , and the villagers put on their worst clothes lest he should raise their rents . 
But one day in the harvest time His Lordship chanced to meet Spare gathering water cresses at a meadow stream , and fell into talk with the cobbler . 
How it was nobody could tell , but from that hour the great lord cast away his melancholy . 
The rich gave him presents , the poor gave him thanks . 
Spare's coat ceased to be ragged , he had bacon with his cabbage , and the villagers began to think there was some sense in him . 
By this time his fame had reached the capital city , and even the court . 
So a royal messenger was sent to Spare , with a velvet mantle , a diamond ring , and a command that he should repair to court immediately . 
To morrow is the first of April , '' said Spare , and I will go with you two hours after sunrise . 
'' The messenger lodged all night at the castle , and the cuckoo came at sunrise with the merry leaf . 
And having sewed up the leaves in the lining of his leather doublet , he set out with the messenger on his way to court . 
His coming caused great surprise there . 
The lords forgot their spites and the ladies their envies , the princes and ministers made friends among themselves , and the judges showed no favor . 
As for Spare , he had a chamber assigned him in the palace , and a seat at the king's table . 
Once , long ago , there lived near the ancient city of Strasburg , on the river Rhine , a young and handsome count , whose name was Otto . 
'' It chanced that Count Otto , on one Christmas Eve , ordered that a great hunt should take place in the forest surrounding his castle . 
He and his guests and his many retainers rode forth , and the chase became more and more exciting . 
It led through thickets , and over pathless tracts of forest , until at length Count Otto found himself separated from his companions . 
He rode on by himself until he came to a spring of clear , bubbling water , known to the people around as the Fairy Well . 
'' Here Count Otto dismounted . 
And , lo ! when he drew out his hand , the gold ring was gone . 
He retired to his room , and , throwing himself just as he was upon his couch , tried to sleep but the strangeness of the adventure kept him restless and wakeful . 
Suddenly he heard the hoarse baying of the watch hounds in the courtyard , and then the creaking of the drawbridge , as though it were being lowered . 
Then came to his ear the patter of many small feet on the stone staircase , and next he heard indistinctly the sound of light footsteps in the chamber adjoining his own . 
Count Otto sprang from his couch , and as he did so there sounded a strain of delicious music , and the door of his chamber was flung open . 
Hurrying into the next room , he found himself in the midst of numberless Fairy beings , clad in gay and sparkling robes . 
They paid no heed to him , but began to dance , and laugh , and sing , to the sound of mysterious music . 
In the center of the apartment stood a splendid Christmas Tree , the first ever seen in that country . 
The whole tree swayed , sparkled , and glittered in the radiance of its many lights . 
She wore on her raven black tresses a golden diadem set with jewels . 
Her hair flowed down upon a robe of rosy satin and creamy velvet . 
I am Ernestine , the Queen of the Fairies . 
I bring you something you lost in the Fairy Well . 
'' And as she spoke she drew from her bosom a golden casket , set with diamonds , and placed it in his hands . 
He opened it eagerly and found within his lost gold ring . 
Then the young man , forgetting all his former coldness toward the maidens of the country round about , fell on his knees before the Fairy and besought her to become his bride . 
At last she consented on the condition that he should never speak the word death'' in her presence . 
Now it happened on a time , that the count and his Fairy wife were to hunt in the forest around the castle . 
At length she appeared at the door of the hall , and the count addressed her in anger . 
Years passed by , and the Fairy Ernestine did not return . 
The count continued to grieve . 
Every Christmas Eve he set up a lighted tree in the room where he had first met the Fairy , hoping in vain that she would return to him . 
Time passed and the count died . 
The castle fell into ruins . 
But to this day may be seen above the massive gate , deeply sunken in the stone arch , the impress of a small and delicate hand . 
And such , say the good folk of Strasburg , was the origin of the Christmas Tree . 
When Saint Nicholas was Bishop of Myra , there were among his people three beautiful maidens , daughters of a nobleman . 
At last the father became so very poor that he no longer had money with which to buy food or clothes for his daughters , and he was overcome by shame and sorrow . 
As for the daughters they wept continually , for they were both cold and hungry . 
One day Saint Nicholas heard of the sad state of this noble family . 
Creeping to the open window he threw the purse into the chamber , so that it fell on the bed of the sleeping maidens . 
The father picked up the purse , and when he opened it and saw the gold , he rejoiced greatly , and awakened his daughters . 
He gave most of the gold to his eldest child for a dowry , and thus she was enabled to wed the young man whom she loved . 
A few days later Saint Nicholas filled another purse with gold , and , as before , went by night to the nobleman's house , and tossed the purse through the open window . 
Thus the second daughter was enabled to marry the young man whom she loved . 
Now , the nobleman felt very grateful to the unknown one who threw purses of gold into his room and he longed to know who his benefactor was and to thank him . 
So the next night he watched beneath the open window . 
Thus the nobleman's third daughter was enabled to marry the young man whom she loved and she and her father and her two sisters lived happily for the remainder of their lives . 
It was the Thunder Oak of the war god Thor . 
Thither , under cover of night , heathen priests were wont to bring their victims both men and beasts and slay them upon the altar of the thunder god . 
Long , long ago , on a white Christmas Eve , Thor's priests held their winter rites beneath the Thunder Oak . 
Through the deep snow of the dense forest hastened throngs of heathen folk , all intent on keeping the mystic feast of the mighty Thor . 
In the hush of the night the folk gathered in the glade where stood the tree . 
Closely they pressed around the great altar stone under the overhanging boughs where stood the white robed priests . 
Clearly shone the moonlight on all . 
Then from the altar flashed upward the sacrificial flames , casting their lurid glow on the straining faces of the human victims awaiting the blow of the priest's knife . 
But the knife never fell , for from the silent avenues of the dark forest came the good Saint Winfred and his people . 
Swiftly the saint drew from his girdle a shining axe . 
Fiercely he smote the Thunder Oak , hewing a deep gash in its trunk . 
Suddenly there was heard overhead the sound of a mighty , rushing wind . 
A whirling blast struck the tree . 
It gripped the oak from its foundations . 
Backward it fell like a tower , groaning as it split into four pieces . 
But just behind it , unharmed by the ruin , stood a young fir tree , pointing its green spire to heaven . 
Saint Winfred dropped his axe , and turned to speak to the people . 
Joyously his voice rang out through the crisp , winter air This little tree , a young child of the forest , shall be your holy tree to night . 
It is the tree of peace , for your houses are built of fir . 
It is the sign of endless life , for its leaves are forever green . 
See how it points upward to heaven ! Let this be called the tree of the Christ Child . 
Gather about it , not in the wildwood , but in your own homes . 
There it will shelter no deeds of blood , but loving gifts and rites of kindness . 
For many moons he wandered , leaning on his staff cut from a white thorn bush . 
He passed over raging seas and dreary wastes , he wandered through trackless forests , climbed rugged mountains , and forded many floods . 
At last he came to Gaul where the Apostle Philip was preaching the glad tidings to the heathen . 
And there Joseph abode for a little space . 
Now , upon a night while Joseph lay asleep in his hut , he was wakened by a radiant light . 
And as he gazed with wondering eyes he saw an angel standing by his couch , wrapped in a cloud of incense . 
Joseph of Arimathea , '' said the angel , cross thou over into Britain and preach the glad tidings to King Arvigarus . 
And there , where a Christmas miracle shall come to pass , do thou build the first Christian church in that land . 
'' And while Joseph lay perplexed and wondering in his heart what answer he should make , the angel vanished from his sight . 
Then Joseph left his hut and calling the Apostle Philip , gave him the angel's message . 
And , when morning dawned , Philip sent him on his way , accompanied by eleven chosen followers . 
To the water's side they went , and embarking in a little ship , they came unto the coasts of Britain . 
And they were met there by the heathen who carried them before Arvigarus their king . 
To him and to his people did Joseph of Arimathea preach the glad tidings but the king's heart , though moved , was not convinced . 
Beautiful and peaceful was it . 
Deep it lay in the midst of a green valley , and the balmy breezes fanned its apple orchards , and scattered afar the sweet fragrance of rosy blossoms or ripened fruit . 
Soft grew the green grass beneath the feet . 
The smooth waves gently lapped the shore , and water lilies floated on the surface of the tide while in the blue sky above sailed the fleecy clouds . 
And it was on the holy Christmas Eve that Joseph and his companions reached the Isle of Avalon . 
With them they carried the Holy Grail hidden beneath its cloth of snow white samite . 
Heavily they toiled up the steep ascent of the hill called Weary All . 
And when they reached the top Joseph thrust his thorn staff into the ground . 
And he made it wattled all round'' of osiers gathered from the water's edge . 
And in the chapel they placed the Holy Grail . 
And so , it is said , ever since at Glastonbury Abbey the name by which that Avalon is known to day on Christmas Eve the white thorn buds and blooms . 
On this hill were stationed sentinels of Ind , who watched day and night against the Children of Israel , and afterward against the Romans . 
And thus was it that for so long a time the fame of this Star was borne throughout the lands of the East . 
And the more the Star was sought for , and the more its fame increased , so much the more all the people of the Land of Ind desired to see it . 
Now , when Christ was born in Bethlehem of Judea , His Star began to rise in the manner of a sun , bright shining . 
THE CHILD Now , when these three worshipful kings were passed forth out of their kingdoms , the Star went before each king and his people . 
And they never took shelter by night nor by day , nor ever rested , nor did their horses and other beasts ever eat or drink till they had come to Bethlehem . 
And all this time it did seem to them as one day . 
But when the three blessed kings had come near to Jerusalem , then a great cloud of darkness hid the Star from their sight . 
And when Melchior and his people were come fast by the city , they abode in fog and darkness . 
Then came Balthazar , and he abode under the same cloud near unto Melchior . 
Thereupon appeared Jasper with all his host . 
So these three glorious kings , each with his host and burdens and beasts , met together in the highway without the city of Jerusalem . 
So afterward , when they had spoken together and each had told his purpose and the cause of his journey , they were much more glad and fervent . 
So they rode forth , and at the uprising of the sun , they came into Jerusalem . 
And yet the Star appeared not . 
He then sent them forth , bidding them find the young Child and return to him . 
Now when these three kings were passed out of Jerusalem the Star appeared to them again as it did erst , and went before them till they were come to Bethlehem . 
Now , the nearer the kings came to the place where Christ was born , the brighter shined the Star , and they entered Bethlehem the sixth hour of the day . 
And they rode through the streets till they came before a little house . 
And the three kings went into the little house and found the Child with his mother , and they fell down and worshiped him , and offered him gifts . 
But the Star that had gone before appeared no more . 
So these three kings , who had suddenly met together in the highway before Jerusalem , went home together with great joy and honor . 
Also they agreed to meet together at the same place once in the year , and they ordained that the Hill of Vaws should be the place of their burial . 
So when the three worshipful kings had done what they would , they took leave of each other , and each one with his people rode to his own land rejoicing . 
Now , after the death of the Emperor Constantine a persecution against the Christian faith arose , and in this persecution the bodies of the three worshipful kings were set at naught . 
This Archbishop with his army did take the city of Milan , and delivered it to the Emperor . 
And for this service did the Emperor grant , at the Archbishop's great entreaty , that he should carry forth to Cologne the bodies of the three blessed kings . 
Thus endeth the legend of these three blessed kings , Melchior , Balthazar , and Jasper . 
There was a little tree that stood in the woods through both good and stormy weather , and it was covered from top to bottom with needles instead of leaves . 
The needles were sharp and prickly , so the little tree said to itself All my tree comrades have beautiful green leaves , and I have only sharp needles . 
No one will touch me . 
If I could have a wish I would ask for leaves of pure gold . 
'' When night came the little tree fell asleep , and , lo ! in the morning it woke early and found itself covered with glistening , golden leaves . 
Ah , ah ! '' said the little tree , how grand I am ! No other tree in the woods is dressed in gold . 
'' But at evening time there came a peddler with a great sack and a long beard . 
He saw the glitter of the golden leaves . 
He picked them all and hurried away leaving the little tree cold and bare . 
Alas ! alas ! '' cried the little tree in sorrow all my golden leaves are gone ! I am ashamed to stand among the other trees that have such beautiful foliage . 
If I only had another wish I would ask for leaves of glass . 
'' Then the little tree fell asleep , and when it woke early , it found itself covered with bright and shining leaves of glass . 
Now , '' said the little tree , I am happy . 
No tree in the woods glistens like me . 
'' But there came a fierce storm wind driving through the woods . 
It struck the glass , and in a moment all the shining leaves lay shattered on the ground . 
My leaves , my glass leaves ! '' moaned the little tree they lie broken in the dust , while all the other trees are still dressed in their beautiful foliage . 
Oh ! if I had another wish I would ask for green leaves . 
'' Then the little tree slept again , and in the morning it was covered with fresh , green foliage . 
And it laughed merrily , and said Now , I need not be ashamed any more . 
I am like my comrades of the woods . 
'' But along came a mother goat , looking for grass and herbs for herself and her young ones . 
'' And sorrowfully the little tree fell asleep , but when it saw itself in the morning sunshine , it laughed and laughed and laughed . 
And all the other trees laughed , too , but the little tree did not care . 
Why did they laugh ? Because in the night all its needles had come again ! You may see this for yourself . 
Just go into the woods and look , but do not touch the little tree . 
Why not ? BECAUSE IT PRICKS . 
One little bird had broken its wing and could not fly with the others . 
It was alone in the cold world of frost and snow . 
The forest looked warm , and it made its way to the trees as well as it could , to ask for help . 
First it came to a birch tree . 
Beautiful birch tree , '' it said , my wing is broken , and my friends have flown away . 
May I live among your branches till they come back to me ? '' No , indeed , '' answered the birch tree , drawing her fair green leaves away . 
We of the great forest have our own birds to help . 
I can do nothing for you . 
'' The birch is not very strong , '' said the little bird to itself , and it might be that she could not hold me easily . 
I will ask the oak . 
That is a long way off . 
How do I know what you might do in all that time ? Birds are always looking for something to eat , and you might even eat up some of my acorns . 
Very likely there are trees somewhere that will take in strange birds . 
'' The poor little bird did not know what to do . 
Its wing was not yet strong , but it began to fly away as well as it could . 
Before it had gone far a voice was heard . 
Little bird , '' it said , where are you going ? '' Indeed , I do not know , '' answered the bird sadly . 
'' Come right here , then , '' said the friendly spruce tree , for it was her voice that had called . 
You shall live on my warmest branch all winter if you choose . 
'' Will you really let me ? '' asked the little bird eagerly . 
Indeed , I will , '' answered the kind hearted spruce tree . 
If your friends have flown away , it is time for the trees to help you . 
Here is the branch where my leaves are thickest and softest . 
'' I can help , too , '' said a little juniper tree . 
I can give you berries all winter long , and every bird knows that juniper berries are good . 
'' So the spruce gave the lonely little bird a home the pine kept the cold North Wind away from it and the juniper gave it berries to eat . 
The other trees looked on and talked together wisely . 
I would not have strange birds on my boughs , '' said the birch . 
I shall not give my acorns away for any one , '' said the oak . 
I never have anything to do with strangers , '' said the willow , and the three trees drew their leaves closely about them . 
May I touch every leaf in the forest ? '' asked the wind in its frolic . 
No , '' said the Frost King . 
The trees that have been kind to the little bird with the broken wing may keep their leaves . 
'' This is why the leaves of the spruce , the pine , and the juniper are always green . 
And flowers and trees and plants bent their heads in reverence . 
But the proud aspen held its head high and refused even to look at the Holy Babe . 
In vain the birds sang in the aspen's branches , entreating it to gaze for one moment at the wonderful One the proud tree still held its head erect in scorn . 
Then outspake Mary , his mother . 
A strange shivering passed through its stem and along its boughs , which set its leaves a quivering . 
It trembled before the Holy Babe . 
And so from age to age , even unto this day , the proud aspen shakes and shivers . 
One day in the springtime , Prince Solomon was sitting under the palm trees in the royal gardens , when he saw the Prophet Nathan walking near . 
Nathan , '' said the Prince , I would see a wonder . 
I had the same desire in the days of my youth , '' he replied . 
And was it fulfilled ? '' asked Solomon . 
A Man of God came to me , '' said Nathan , having a pomegranate seed in his hand . 
Behold , he said , what will become of this . 
Then he made a hole in the ground , and planted the seed , and covered it over . 
When he withdrew his hand the clods of earth opened , and I saw two small leaves coming forth . 
I marveled , but the Man of God motioned me to be silent . 
Behold , said he , new creations begin . 
Scarcely had the falling flowers reached the ground when I saw ruddy pomegranates hanging beneath the leaves of the tree , like almonds on Aaron's rod . 
Then the Man of God left me , and I was lost in amazement . 
'' Where is he , this Man of God ? '' asked Prince Solomon eagerly . 
What is his name ? Is he still alive ? '' Son of David , '' answered Nathan , I have spoken to thee of a vision . 
'' When the Prince heard this he was grieved to the heart . 
How couldst thou deceive me thus ? '' he asked . 
But the Prophet replied Behold in thy father's gardens thou mayest daily see the unfolding of wonder trees . 
Copyright , , by Van Antwerp , Bragg Co . 
American Book Company , publishers . 
Now look at me ! No storm has ever been able to bow my head . 
You will be much safer if you grow close to my side so that I may shelter you from the wind that is now playing with my leaves . 
'' Do not worry about me , '' said the reed I have less reason to fear the wind than you have . 
I bow myself , but I never break . 
He who laughs last , laughs best ! '' That night there came a fearful hurricane . 
The reed bowed itself before the blast . 
The wind grew more furious , and , uprooting the proud oak , flung it on the ground . 
When the morning came there stood the slender reed , glittering with dewdrops , and softly swaying in the breeze . 
BAUCIS AND PHILEMON ADAPTED FROM H. P. MASKEL'S RENDERING OF THE GREEK MYTH On the slopes of the Phrygian hills , there once dwelt a pious old couple named Baucis and Philemon . 
They had lived all their lives in a tiny cottage of wattles , thatched with straw , cheerful and content in spite of their poverty . 
As this worthy couple sat dozing by the fireside one evening in the late autumn , two strangers came and begged a shelter for the night . 
They had to stoop to enter the humble doorway , where the old man welcomed them heartily and bade them rest their weary limbs on the settle before the fire . 
Meanwhile Baucis stirred the embers , blowing them into a flame with dry leaves , and heaped on the fagots to boil the stew pot . 
Hanging from the blackened beams was a rusty side of bacon . 
Philemon cut off a rasher to roast , and , while his guests refreshed themselves with a wash at the rustic trough , he gathered pot herbs from his patch of garden . 
Then the old woman , her hands trembling with age , laid the cloth and spread the table . 
It was a frugal meal , but one that hungry wayfarers could well relish . 
The first course was an omelette of curdled milk and eggs , garnished with radishes and served on rude oaken platters . 
The cups of turned beechwood were filled with homemade wine from an earthen jug . 
The second course consisted of dried figs and dates , plums , sweet smelling apples , and grapes , with a piece of clear , white honeycomb . 
What made the meal more grateful to the guests was the hearty spirit in which it was offered . 
Their hosts gave all they had without stint or grudging . 
But all at once something happened which startled and amazed Baucis and Philemon . 
They poured out wine for their guests , and , lo ! each time the pitcher filled itself again to the brim . 
The old couple then knew that their guests were not mere mortals indeed , they were no other than Jupiter and Mercury come down to earth in the disguise of poor travelers . 
Being ashamed of their humble entertainment , Philemon hurried out and gave chase to his only goose , intending to kill and roast it . 
But his guests forbade him , saying In mortal shape we have come down , and at a hundred houses asked for lodging and rest . 
For answer a hundred doors were shut and locked against us . 
You alone , the poorest of all , have received us gladly and given us of your best . 
Now it is for us to punish these impious people who treat strangers so churlishly , but you two shall be spared . 
Only leave your cottage and follow us to yonder mountain top . 
'' So saying , Jupiter and Mercury led the way , and the two old folks hobbled after them . 
And while they gazed , their cottage was changed into a white temple . 
The doorway became a porch with marble columns . 
The thatch grew into a roof of golden tiles . 
The little garden about their home became a park . 
We desire , '' he replied , to be your servants , and to have the care of this temple . 
One other favor we would ask . 
From boyhood I have loved only Baucis , and she has lived only for me . 
Let the selfsame hour take us both away together . 
Let me never see the tomb of my wife , nor let her suffer the misery of mourning my death . 
'' Jupiter and Mercury , pleased with these requests , willingly granted both , and endowed Baucis and Philemon with youth and strength as well . 
The gods then vanished from their sight , but as long as their lives lasted Baucis and Philemon were the guardians of the white temple that once had been their home . 
And Philemon , as he felt himself rooted to the ground , saw Baucis at the same time turning into a leafy linden . 
And still , if you visit the spot , you may see an oak and a linden tree with branches intertwined . 
One day the farmer went into town to visit his brother , and was astonished at the rows of trees that grew slender and smooth as wax tapers . 
'' Then the gardener called his workmen and ordered them to take up the tree and carry it to his brother's farm . 
They did so , and the next morning the farmer began to wonder where he should plant it . 
'' So , after he had thought the matter over , he planted the tree behind his barn , saying to himself Prying thieves will not think to look for it here . 
In olden times there was a youth named Rhoecus . 
One day as he wandered through the wood he saw an ancient oak tree , trembling and about to fall . 
Thou hadst compassion on my oak , and in saving it thou hast saved my life . 
Now , ask me what thou wilt that I can give , and it shall be thine . 
'' Beauteous nymph , '' answered Rhoecus , with a flutter at the heart , surely nothing will satisfy the craving of my soul save to be with thee forever . 
Give to me thy love ! '' I give it , Rhoecus , '' answered she with sadness in her voice , though it be a perilous gift . 
An hour before sunset meet me here . 
'' And straightway she vanished , and Rhoecus could see nothing but the green glooms beneath the shadowy oak . 
Filled with wonder and joy Rhoecus turned his steps homeward . 
The earth seemed to spring beneath him as he walked . 
The clear , broad sky looked bluer than its wont , and so full of joy was he that he could scarce believe that he had not wings . 
Impatient for the trysting time , he sought some companions , and to while away the tedious hours , he played at dice , and soon forgot all else . 
The dice were rattling their merriest , and Rhoecus had just laughed in triumph at a happy throw , when through the open window of the room there hummed a yellow bee . 
It buzzed about his ears , and seemed ready to alight upon his head . 
Three times it buzzed about his head , and three times he rudely beat it back . 
Then straight through the window flew the wounded bee , while Rhoecus watched its fight with angry eyes . 
And as he looked O sorrow ! the red disk of the setting sun descended behind the sharp mountain peak of Thessaly . 
Farewell ! for thou canst see me no more ! '' Then Rhoecus beat his breast and groaned aloud . 
Be pitiful , '' he cried . 
One was of shining gold and with its barbed point could Cupid inflict wounds of love the other arrow was of dull silver and its wound had the power to engender hate . 
With the golden arrow Cupid grievously wounded Apollo , who fleeing to the woods saw there the Nymph Daphne pursuing the deer and straightway the sun god fell in love with her beauty . 
Her golden locks hung down upon her neck , her eyes were like stars , her form was slender and graceful and clothed in clinging white . 
Swifter than the light wind she flew , and Apollo followed after . 
The winds fluttered her garments , the light breezes spread her flowing locks behind her . 
Swiftly Apollo drew near even as the keen greyhound draws near to the frightened hare he is pursuing . 
With trembling limbs Daphne sought the river , the home of her father , Peneus . 
Close behind her was Apollo , the sun god . 
She felt his breath on her hair and his hand on her shoulder . 
Her breast was covered with bark , her hair grew into green leaves , and her arms into branches . 
Her feet , a moment before so swift , became rooted to the ground . 
And Daphne was no longer a Nymph , but a green laurel tree . 
When Apollo beheld this change he cried out and embraced the tree , and kissed its leaves . 
Beautiful Daphne , '' he said , since thou cannot be my bride , yet shalt thou be my tree . 
Henceforth my hair , my lyre , and my quiver shall be adorned with laurel . 
He came one day to the door of a cottage , and looking in saw a little old woman making cakes , and baking them on the hearth . 
Now , the good Saint was faint with fasting , and he asked if she would give him one small cake wherewith to stay his hunger . 
'' Then she kneaded another cake , much smaller , and laid that on the hearth to cook , but when she turned it over it looked larger than the first . 
Then the good Saint grew angry , for he was hungry and faint . 
You are too selfish to have a human form , '' said he . 
You are too greedy to deserve food , shelter , and a warm fire . 
And now every country boy may see her in the woods , where she lives in trees boring , boring , boring for her food . 
Once upon a time there was an old Indian who had an only son , whose name was Opeechee . 
The boy had come to the age when every Indian lad makes a long fast , in order to secure a Spirit to be his guardian for life . 
Now , the old man was very proud , and he wished his son to fast longer than other boys , and to become a greater warrior than all others . 
So he directed him to prepare with solemn ceremonies for the fast . 
My son , '' said he , endure your hunger like a man , and at the end of TWELVE DAYS , you shall receive food and a blessing from my hands . 
His father visited him every day , encouraging him to endure with patience the pangs of hunger and thirst . 
He told him of the honor and renown that would be his if he continued his fast to the end of the twelve days . 
May I break my fast now , and at a better time make a new one ? '' My son , '' replied the old man , you know not what you ask . 
If you get up now , all your glory will depart . 
Wait patiently a little longer . 
You have but three days more to fast , then glory and honor will be yours . 
Wait patiently a little longer . 
You have but one more day to fast . 
To morrow I will myself prepare a meal and bring it to you . 
'' The boy remained silent , beneath his covering , and motionless except for the gentle heaving of his breast . 
Early the next morning his father , overjoyed at having gained his end , prepared some food . 
He took it and hastened to the lodge intending to set it before his son . 
On coming to the door of the lodge what was his surprise to hear the boy talking to some one . 
He lifted the curtain hanging before the doorway , and looking in saw his son painting his breast with vermilion . 
He would not listen to my requests . 
I shall be happy forever , because I was obedient to my parent but he shall suffer . 
He looked down on his father with pity in his eyes , and said Do not sorrow , O my father , I am no longer your boy , but Opeechee the robin . 
I shall always be a friend to men , and live near their dwellings . 
I shall ever be happy and content . 
Every day will I sing you songs of joy . 
The mountains and fields yield me food . 
My pathway is in the bright air . 
'' Then Opeechee the robin stretched himself as if delighting in his new wings , and caroling his sweetest song , he flew away to the near by trees . 
Once upon a time there lived a little old man and a little old woman . 
The little old man had a kind heart , and he kept a young sparrow , which he cared for tenderly . 
Every morning it used to sing at the door of his house . 
Now , the little old woman was a cross old thing , and one day when she was going to starch her linen , the sparrow pecked at her paste . 
Then she flew into a great rage and cut the sparrow's tongue and let the bird fly away . 
When the little old man came home from the hills , where he had been chopping wood , he found the sparrow gone . 
Where is my little sparrow ? '' asked he . 
It pecked at my starching paste , '' answered the little old woman , so I cut its evil tongue and let it fly away . 
'' Alas ! Alas ! '' cried the little old man . 
The little old man was filled with joy and the sparrow welcomed him with its sweetest song . 
It led the little old man to its nest house , introduced him to its wife and small sparrows , and set before him all sorts of good things to eat and drink . 
Please partake of our humble fare , '' sang the sparrow poor as it is , you are welcome . 
'' What a polite sparrow , '' answered the little old man , and he stayed for a long time as the bird's guest . 
At last one day the little old man said that he must take his leave and return home . 
Wait a bit , '' said the sparrow . 
And it went into the house and brought out two wicker baskets . 
One was very heavy and the other light . 
Take the one you wish , '' said the sparrow , and good fortune go with you . 
'' I am very feeble , '' answered the little old man , so I will take the light one . 
'' He thanked the sparrow , and , shouldering the basket , said good bye . 
Then he trudged off leaving the sparrow family sad and lonely . 
Ho ! Ho ! '' cried she . 
And she wandered on and on over mountain and valley , and dale and river , until at last she saw the tongue cut sparrow . 
Well met , well met , Mr. Sparrow , '' cried she . 
I have been looking forward with much pleasure to seeing you . 
'' And then she tried to flatter it with soft , sweet words . 
So the bird had to invite her to its nest house , but it did not feast her nor say anything about a parting gift . 
At last the little old woman had to go , and she asked for something to carry with her to remember the visit by . 
The sparrow , as before , brought out two wicker baskets . 
One was very heavy and the other light . 
The greedy little old woman , choosing the heavy one , carried it off with her . 
She hurried home as fast as she was able , and closing her doors and windows so that no one might see , opened the basket . 
And , lo and behold ! out jumped all sorts of wicked hobgoblins and imps , and they scratched and pinched her to death . 
As for the little old man he adopted a son , and his family grew rich and prosperous . 
THE QUAILS A LEGEND OF THE JATAKA FROM THE RIVERSIDE FOURTH READER Ages ago a flock of more than a thousand quails lived together in a forest in India . 
They would have been happy , but that they were in great dread of their enemy , the quail catcher . 
Now , one of the quails was very wise , and he said Brothers ! I've thought of a good plan . 
When we have flown far enough , we can let the net drop on a thorn bush and escape from under it . 
While the fowler tried to free his net from the thorns , it grew dark , and he had to go home . 
If they would only quarrel , I could catch them fast enough . 
'' A few days later , one of the quails accidentally trod on the head of one of his brothers , as they alighted on the feeding ground . 
Who trod on my head ? '' angrily inquired the quail who was hurt . 
Don't be angry , I didn't mean to tread on you , '' said the first quail . 
But the brother quail went on quarreling . 
I lifted all the weight of the net you didn't help at all , '' he cried . 
That made the first quail angry , and before long all were drawn into the dispute . 
Then the fowler saw his chance . 
He imitated the cry of the quail and cast his net over those who came together . 
They were still boasting and quarreling , and they did not help one another lift the net . 
So the hunter lifted the net himself and crammed them into his basket . 
But the wise quail gathered his friends together and flew far away , for he knew that quarrels are the root of misfortune . 
THE MAGPIE'S NEST BY JOSEPH JACOBS All the birds of the air came to the magpie and asked her to teach them how to build nests . 
For the magpie is the cleverest bird of all at building nests . 
So she put all the birds round her and began to show them how to do it . 
First of all she took some mud and made a sort of round cake with it . 
Oh , that's how it's done ! '' said the thrush , and away it flew and so that's how thrushes build their nests . 
Then the magpie took some twigs and arranged them round in the mud . 
Now I know all about it ! '' said the blackbird , and off it flew and that's how the blackbirds make their nests to this very day . 
Then the magpie put another layer of mud over the twigs . 
Oh , that 's quite obvious ! '' said the wise owl , and away it flew and owls have never made better nests since . 
After this the magpie took some twigs and twined them round the outside . 
The very thing ! '' said the sparrow , and off he went so sparrows make rather slovenly nests to this day . 
Well , then Madge magpie took some feathers and stuff , and lined the nest very comfortably with it . 
That suits me ! '' cried the starling , and off it flew and very comfortable nests have starlings . 
So it went on , every bird taking away some knowledge of how to build nests , but none of them waiting to the end . 
And that is why different birds build their nests differently . 
Many years ago there was near the sea a convent famed for the rich crops of grain that grew on its farm . 
On a certain year a large flock of wild geese descended on its fields and devoured first the corn , and then the green blades . 
The superintendent of the farm hastened to the convent and called the lady abbess . 
Holy mother , '' said he , this year the nuns will have to fast continually , for there will be no food . 
'' Why is that ? '' asked the abbess . 
'' Is it possible , '' said the abbess , that these wicked birds have no respect for the property of the convent ! They shall do penance for their misdeeds . 
Return at once to the fields , and order the geese from me to come without delay to the convent door , so that they may receive just punishment for their greediness . 
'' Do you understand me ! '' answered the abbess . 
Go at once , and bid them come to me without delay , and render an account of their misdeeds . 
'' The superintendent ran back to the farm , and found the flock of evildoers still there . 
As they proceeded they bowed their heads as if confessing their fault and as though about to receive punishment . 
Arriving at the convent , they entered the courtyard in exact order , one behind the other , and there awaited the coming of the abbess . 
All night they stood thus without making a sound , as if struck dumb by their guilty consciences . 
But when morning came , they uttered the most pitiful cries as though asking pardon and permission to depart . 
Then the lady abbess , taking compassion on the repentant birds , appeared with some nuns upon a balcony . 
Long she talked to the geese , asking them why they had stolen the convent grain . 
She threatened them with a long fast , and then , softening , began to offer them pardon if they would never again attack her lands , nor eat her corn . 
To which the geese bowed their heads low in assent . 
Then the abbess gave them her blessing and permission to depart . 
Hardly had she done so when the geese , spreading their wings , made a joyous circle above the convent towers , and flew away . 
Alighting at some distance they counted their number and found one missing . 
Now , when the lady abbess heard these melancholy pleas , she assembled her household , and inquired of each member where the bird might be . 
The cook , fearing that it might be already known to her , confessed the theft , and begged for pardon . 
You have been very audacious , '' said the abbess , but at least collect the bones and bring them to me . 
The geese , having received their lost companion , rejoiced loudly , and , beating their wings gratefully , made many circles over the sacred cloister , before they flew away . 
Neither did they in future ever dare to place a foot on the lands of the convent , nor to touch one blade of grass . 
One day the birds took it into their heads that they would like a master , and that one of their number must be chosen king . 
A meeting of all the birds was called , and on a beautiful May morning they assembled from woods and fields and meadows . 
The eagle , the robin , the bluebird , the owl , the lark , the sparrow were all there . 
The cuckoo came , and the lapwing , and so did all the other birds , too numerous to mention . 
There also came a very little bird that had no name at all . 
There was great confusion and noise . 
There was piping , hissing , chattering and clacking , and finally it was decided that the bird that could fly the highest should be king . 
The signal was given and all the birds flew in a great flock into the air . 
There was a loud rustling and whirring and beating of wings . 
The air was full of dust , and it seemed as if a black cloud were floating over the field . 
The little birds soon grew tired and fell back quickly to earth . 
The larger ones held out longer , and flew higher and higher , but the eagle flew highest of any . 
He rose , and rose , until he seemed to be flying straight into the sun . 
We will not have you to reign over us . 
'' Then the birds gathered together again and made another condition , that he should be king who could go the deepest into the earth . 
How the goose wallowed in the sand , and the duck strove to dig a hole ! All the other birds , too , tried to hide themselves in the ground . 
Then all the birds went home to bed , for they were very tired but the owl found it lonely and wearisome sitting alone staring at the mouse's hole . 
I can close one eye and watch with the other , '' he thought . 
So he closed one eye and stared steadfastly with the other but before he knew it he forgot to keep that one open , and both eyes were fast asleep . 
Then the little bird without a name peeped out , and when he saw Master Owl's two eyes tight shut , he slipped from the hole and flew away . 
From this time on the owl has not dared to show himself by day lest the birds should pull him to pieces . 
He flies about only at night time , hating and pursuing the mouse for having made the hole into which the little bird crept . 
And the little bird also keeps out of sight , for he fears lest the other birds should punish him for his cunning . 
When it came toward night a storm arose , and the two companions sought everywhere for a shelter . 
But all the birds were sound asleep in their nests and the animals in their holes and dens . 
They could find no welcome anywhere until they came to the hollow tree where old Master Owl lived , wide awake in the dark . 
Let us knock here , '' said the shrewd bat I know the old fellow is not asleep . 
This is his prowling hour , and but that it is a stormy night he would be abroad hunting . 
The poor dove was so tired that she could scarcely eat , but the greedy bat's spirits rose as soon as he saw the viands spread before him . 
He was a sly fellow , and immediately began to flatter his host into good humor . 
He praised the owl's wisdom and his courage , his gallantry and his generosity though every one knew that however wise old Master Owl might be , he was neither brave nor gallant . 
All this flattery pleased the owl . 
He puffed and ruffled himself , trying to look as wise , gallant , and brave as possible . 
He pressed the bat to help himself more generously to the viands , which invitation the sly fellow was not slow to accept . 
During this time the dove had not uttered a word . 
She sat quite still staring at the bat , and wondering to hear such insincere speeches of flattery . 
Suddenly the owl turned to her . 
As for you , Miss Pink Eyes , '' he said gruffly , you keep careful silence . 
You are a dull table companion . 
I was beaten by the storm , and you took me in . 
I was hungry , and you gave me your best to eat . 
I cannot flatter nor make pretty speeches like the bat . 
I never learned such manners . 
You do not deserve this shelter . 
'' The dove remained silent . 
Like Cordelia in the play she could not speak untruths even for her own happiness . 
Truly , you are an unamiable guest , '' snarled the owl , his yellow eyes growing keen and fierce with anger and mortified pride . 
You are an ungrateful bird , Miss , and the bat is right . 
You do not deserve this generous hospitality which I have offered , this goodly shelter which you asked . 
Away with you ! Leave my dwelling ! Pack off into the storm and see whether or not your silence will soothe the rain and the wind . 
Be off , I say ! '' Yes , away with her ! '' echoed the bat , flapping his leathery wings . 
And the two heartless creatures fell upon the poor little dove and drove her out into the dark and stormy night . 
Poor little dove ! All night she was tossed and beaten about shelterless in the storm , because she had been too truthful to flatter the vain old owl . 
But when the bright morning dawned , draggled and weary as she was , she flew to the court of King Eagle and told him all her trouble . 
Great was the indignation of that noble bird . 
For his flattery and his cruelty let the bat never presume to fly abroad until the sun goes down , '' he cried . 
As for the owl , I have already doomed him to this punishment for his treatment of the wren . 
But henceforth let no bird have anything to do with either of them , the bat or the owl . 
Let them be outcasts and night prowlers , enemies to be attacked and punished if they appear among us , to be avoided by all in their loneliness . 
Flattery and inhospitality , deceit and cruelty , what are more hideous than these ? Let them cover themselves in darkness and shun the happy light of day . 
As for you , little dove , let this be a lesson to you to shun the company of flatterers , who are sure to get you into trouble . 
But you shall always be loved for your simplicity and truth . 
And as a token of our affection your name shall be used by poets as long as the world shall last to rhyme with LOVE . 
One of the most interesting birds who ever lived in my Bird Room was a blue jay named Jakie . 
He was full of business from morning till night , scarcely ever a moment still . 
Poor little fellow ! He had been stolen from the nest before he could fly , and reared in a house , long before he was given to me . 
Of course he could not be set free , for he did not know how to take care of himself . 
Jays are very active birds , and being shut up in a room , my blue jay had to find things to do , to keep himself busy . 
If he had been allowed to grow up out of doors , he would have found plenty to do , planting acorns and nuts , nesting , and bringing up families . 
But how is a poor little bird to know what is mischief ? Many things which Jakie did were very funny . 
For instance , he made it his business to clear up the room . 
Sometimes it was behind the tray in his cage , or among the books on the shelf . 
The places he liked best were about me , in the fold of a ruffle or the loop of a bow on my dress , and sometimes in the side of my slipper . 
The very choicest place of all was in my loosely bound hair . 
These he would pick up and put nicely away . 
Pins Jakie took lengthwise in his beak , and at first I thought he had swallowed them , till I saw him hunt up a proper place to hide them . 
The place he chose was between the leaves of a book . 
He would push a pin far in out of sight , and then go after another . 
A match he always tried to put in a crack , under the baseboard , between the breadths of matting , or under my rockers . 
He first placed it , and then tried to hammer it in out of sight . 
He could seldom get it in far enough to suit him , and this worried him . 
Then he would take it out and try another place . 
Once the blue jay found a good match , of the parlor match variety . 
He put it between the breadths of matting , and then began to pound on it as usual . 
Pretty soon he hit the unburnt end and it went off with a loud crack , as parlor matches do . 
Poor Jakie jumped two feet into the air , nearly frightened out of his wits and I was frightened , too , for I feared he might set the house on fire . 
Then he had to begin his work all over again . 
Jakie liked a small ball or a marble . 
His game was to give it a hard peck and see it roll . 
And what was funny , he was always offended at this conduct of the ball , and went off sulky for a while . 
He was a timid little fellow . 
Wind or storm outside the windows made him wild . 
He would fly around the room , squawking at the top of his voice and the horrible tin horns the boys liked to blow at Thanksgiving and Christmas drove him frantic . 
Once I brought a Christmas tree into the room to please the birds , and all were delighted with it except my poor little blue jay , who was much afraid of it . 
At some persons he would squawk every moment . 
Jakie was very devoted to me . 
He would keep up this funny performance as long as anybody would stand before him and pretend to dance too . 
My jay was fond of a sensation . 
One of his dearest bits of fun was to drive the birds into a panic . 
This he did by flying furiously around the room , feathers rustling , and squawking as loud as he could . 
This gave him great pleasure . 
Once a grasshopper got into the Bird Room , probably brought in clinging to some one's dress in the way grasshoppers do . 
Jakie was in his cage , but he noticed the stranger instantly , and I opened the door for him . 
He went at once to look at the grasshopper , and when it hopped he was so startled that he hopped too . 
Then he picked the insect up , but he did not know what to do with it , so he dropped it again . 
Again the grasshopper jumped directly up , and again the jay did the same . 
This they did over and over , till every one was tired laughing at them . 
It looked as if they were trying to see who could jump the highest . 
There was another bird in the room , however , who knew what grasshoppers were good for . 
He was an orchard oriole , and after looking on awhile , he came down and carried off the hopper to eat . 
I could tell many more stories about my bird , but I have told them before in one of my grown up'' books , so I will not repeat them here . 
As we paddled along , we were on the alert for any bit of wild life of bird or beast that might turn up . 
Why don't the bluebirds occupy them here ? '' inquired Ted . 
Oh , '' I replied , blue birds do not come so far into the woods as this . 
They prefer nesting places in the open , and near human habitations . 
'' After carefully scrutinizing several of the trees , we at last saw one that seemed to fill the bill . 
It was a small dead tree trunk seven or eight inches in diameter , that leaned out over the water , and from which the top had been broken . 
The hole , round and firm , was ten or twelve feet above us . 
After considerable effort I succeeded in breaking the stub off near the ground , and brought it down into the boat . 
Just the thing , '' I said surely the bluebirds will prefer this to an artificial box . 
This was no easy thing . 
But after a time we had it fairly well replaced , one end standing in the mud of the shallow water and the other resting against a tree . 
This left the hole to the nest about ten feet below and to one side of its former position . 
She hammered the beetle rather excitedly upon the limb a few times , as if it were in some way at fault , then dropped down to try for her nest again . 
Then she makes a third attempt , then a fourth , and a fifth , and a sixth , till she becomes very much excited . 
Then she flies away through the woods , calling . 
Going for her mate , '' I said to Ted . 
She is in deep trouble , and she wants sympathy and help . 
'' In a few minutes we heard her mate answer , and presently the two birds came hurrying to the spot , both with loaded beaks . 
'' And he dived down , and brought up in the empty air just as the mother had done . 
Baffled and excited , he returned to the perch beside her . 
Then she tried again , then he rushed down once more , then they both assaulted the place , but it would not give up its secret . 
They talked , they encouraged each other , and they kept up the search , now one , now the other , now both together . 
Sometimes they dropped down to within a few feet of the entrance to the nest , and we thought they would surely find it . 
No , their minds and eyes were intent only upon that square foot of space where the nest had been . 
'' A few minutes elapsed , when we saw the mother bird spring from her perch and go straight as an arrow to the nest . 
Her maternal eye had proved the quicker . 
She had found her young . 
Something like reason and common sense had come to her rescue she had taken time to look about , and behold ! there was that precious doorway . 
She thrust her head into it , then sent back a call to her mate , then went farther in , then withdrew . 
Ted and I breathed freer . 
A burden had been taken from our minds and hearts , and we went cheerfully on our way . 
We had learned something , too we had learned that when in the deep woods you think of bluebirds , bluebirds may be nearer you than you think . 
Old Abe'' was the war eagle of the Eighth Wisconsin Volunteers . 
Whoever it may have been that first conceived the idea , it was certainly a happy thought to make a pet of an eagle . 
Old Abe's'' perch was on a shield , which was carried by a soldier , to whom , and to whom alone , he looked as to a master . 
He would not allow any one to carry or even to handle him , except this soldier , nor would he ever receive his food from any other person's hands . 
He regularly received his rations from the commissary , like any enlisted man . 
In what way he distinguished the two hostile armies so accurately that he was never once known to mistake the gray for the blue , no one can tell . 
But so it was , that he was never known to alight save in his own camp , and amongst his own men . 
He did the same at Mission Ridge . 
He was , I believe , struck by Confederate bullets two or three times , but his feathers were so thick that his body was not much hurt . 
The shield on which he was carried , however , showed so many marks of Confederate balls that it looked on top as if a groove plane had been run over it . 
At the Centenial celebration held in Philadelphia , in , Old Abe'' occupied a prominent place on his perch on the west side of the nave in the Agricultural Building . 
He was evidently growing old , and was the observed of all observers . 
We were making our slow way toward the top of the outer rock . 
Through rookery after rookery of birds , we climbed until we reached the edge of the summit . 
Scrambling over this edge , we found ourselves in the midst of a great colony of nesting murres hundreds of them covering this steep rocky part of the top . 
But the birds had not every one bolted , for here sat two of the colony among the broken rocks . 
These two had not been frightened off . 
That both of them were greatly alarmed , any one could see from their open beaks , their rolling eyes , their tense bodies on tiptoe for flight . 
And so they were , in truth , for under their extended wings I saw little black feet moving . 
Those two mother murres were not going to forsake their babies ! No , not even for these approaching monsters , such as they had never before seen , clambering over their rocks . 
What was different about these two ? They had their young ones to protect . 
Yes , but so had every bird in the great colony its young one , or its egg , to protect , yet all the others had gone . 
The other bird raised her wings to follow , then clapped them back over her baby . 
She let the multitude scream , and with threatening beak watched the two men come on . 
A motherless baby , spying her , ran down the rock squealing for his life . 
She spread a wing , put her bill behind him and shoved him quickly in out of sight with her own baby . 
Just how compelling might that mother instinct be ? '' I wondered . 
Just how much would that mother love stand ? '' I had dropped to my knees , and on all fours had crept up within about three feet of the bird . 
She still had chance for flight . 
But her wings were twitching , a wild light danced in her eyes , and her head turned toward the sea . 
For a whole minute I did not stir . 
I was watching and the wings again began to tighten about the babies , the wild light in the eyes died down , the long , sharp beak turned once more toward me . 
I was not killing anything . 
I had no long range rifle in my hands , coming up against the wind toward an unsuspecting creature hundreds of yards away . 
This was no wounded leopard charging me no mother bear defending with her giant might a captured cub . 
No , I had not taken her captive . 
She had made herself a captive she had taken herself in the strong net of her mother love . 
And now her terror seemed quite gone . 
At the first touch of my hand I think she felt the love restraining it , and without fear or fret she let me reach under her and pull out the babies . 
I gave them back , fuzzy and black and white . 
Her own baby , some one else's baby , and some one else's forsaken egg ! She could cover no more she had not feathers enough . 
NEW YEAR'S DAY For grades . 
A Chinese New Year's in California , in Our Holidays Retold from St . 
Story of the Year , in Andersen , Stories and Tales The Animals' New Year's Eve , in Lagerlof , Further Adventures of Nils . 
A Westfield Incident , in Moores , Abraham Lincoln , page Lincoln and the Little Horse , in Werner's Readings , no . 
Lincoln and the Pig , in Gross , Lincoln's Own Stories Lincoln and the Small Dog , in Moores , Aoraham Lincoln , page . 
SAINT VALENTINE'S DAY For grades . 
, in Story Telling Poems The Singing , Soaring Lark , in Grimm , German Household Tales William and the Werewolf , in Darton , Wonder Book of Old Romance . 
Little George Washington , and Great George Washington , in Wiggin and Smith , Story Hour The Virginia Boy , in Wilson , Nature Study , Second Reader . 
Anecdotes and Stories , in Schauffler , Washington's Birthday He Resigns his Commission , in Lodge , George Washington , vol . 
I , page The British at Mount Vernon , in Lodge , George Washington , vol . 
I , page The Young Surveyor , in Scudder , George Washington Washington Offered the Supreme Power , in Lodge , George Washington , vol . 
I , page Washington's Farewell to His Officers , in Lodge , George Washington , vol . 
, in Story Telling Poems The Rabbit's Ransom , Vawter The White Hare , in Stevenson , Days and Deeds . 
The General's Easter Box , in Our Holidays Retold from St . 
Nicholas The Trinity Flower , Ewing What Easter is , in Stevenson , Days and Deeds . 
, in Riverside Eighth Reader Valentine and Ursine , in Lanier , Boy's Perey . 
A Patriot Mother , in Tomlinson , War for Independence Lincoln's Letter , in Gross , Lincoln's Own Stories President for One Hour , in St . 
, in Story Telling Poems Young Manhood , in Noah Brooks , Abraham Lincoln . 
MEMORIAL AND FLAG DAYS For grades . 
A Boy Who Won the Cross , in Hart and Stevens , Romance of the Civil War A Story of the Flag , in Our Holidays Retold from St . 
The Planting of the Colors , in Thomas , Captain Phil , page . 
INDEPENDENCE DAY For grades S . 
A Winter at Valley Forge , in Tappan , American Hero Stories Cornwallis's Buckles , in Revolutionary Stories Retold from St . 
Nicholas Ethan Allen , in Johonnot , Stories of Heroic Deeds Fourth of July Among the Indians , in Indian Stories Retold from St . 
Nicholas Molly Pitcher , in Revolutionary Stories Retold from St . 
That Bunker Hill Powder , in Revolutionary Stories Retold from St . 
Nicholas The Mantle of St . 
The Tory's Farewell , in Hawthorne , Grandfather's Chair . 
, in Story Telling Poems Vegetable Lambs , in Curtis , Story of Cotton Vulcan the Mighty Smith , in Poulsson , In the Child's World . 
Weland's Sword , in Kipling , Puck of Pook's Hill . 
All Hallow Eve Myths , in Our Holidays Retold from St . 
The Speaking Rat , in Dickens , Uncommercial Traveller , chapter . 
Nicholas The Coming of Thanksgiving , and The Season of Pumpkin Pies , in Warner , Being a Boy The Magic Apples , in Brown , In the Days of Giants St . 
, in Story Telling Poems . 
, in Stevenson , Poems of Amercan History The Turkey Drive , in Sharp , Winter . 
Why the Chimes Rang , Alden . 
Nicholas Lottie's Christmas Tree , in Miller , Kristy's Rainy Day Picnic St . 
Nicholas and the Innkeeper , in Walsh , Story of Santa Klaus St . 
Nicholas and the Robbers , in Walsh , Story of Santa Klaus St . 
Nicholas , in Dodge , Hans Brinker The Peace Egg , Ewing The Symbol and the Saint , in Field , Christmas Tales and Christmas Verse . 
, in Riverside Fifth Reader . 
, in Story Telling Poems The Story of a Thousand Year Pine , Mills The Washington Elm , in Drake , New England Legends . 
The Sauey Oriole , in Miller , True Bird Stories The Wild Swans , in Andersen , Wonder Stories Walter son der Vogelweid , Longfellow . 
