St Ives Robert Louis Stevenson Edition . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
My knowledge of the English language had marked me out for a certain employment . 
My English , which had brought me into that scrape , now helped me very materially to bear it . 
I had a thousand advantages . 
A young lieutenant singled me out to be his adversary at chess , a game in which I was extremely proficient , and would reward me for my gambits with excellent cigars . 
The major of the battalion took lessons of French from me while at breakfast , and was sometimes so obliging as to have me join him at the meal . 
He was stiff as a drum major and selfish as an Englishman , but a fairly conscientious pupil and a fairly upright man . 
The officers had been all offered their parole , and had taken it . 
They lived mostly in suburbs of the city , lodging with modest families , and enjoyed their freedom and supported the almost continual evil tidings of the Emperor as best they might . 
It chanced I was the only gentleman among the privates who remained . 
A great part were ignorant Italians , of a regiment that had suffered heavily in Catalonia . 
The rest were mere diggers of the soil , treaders of grapes or hewers of wood , who had been suddenly and violently preferred to the glorious state of soldiers . 
Some moved among us with a decency of shame or sympathy . 
Good , bad , and indifferent , there was one alleviation to the annoyance of these visitors for it was the practice of almost all to purchase some specimen of our rude handiwork . 
This led , amongst the prisoners , to a strong spirit of competition . 
could place upon sale little miracles of dexterity and taste . 
to be a source of profit . 
Others again enjoyed some acquaintance with the language , and were able to recommend the more agreeably to purchasers such trifles as they had to sell . 
To the first of these advantages I could lay no claim , for my fingers were all thumbs . 
Some at least of the others I possessed and finding much entertainment in our commerce , I did not suffer my advantages to rust . 
I have never despised the social arts , in which it is a national boast that every Frenchman should excel . 
For the approach of particular sorts of visitors , I had a particular manner of address , and even of appearance , which I could readily assume and change on the occasion rising . 
I am scarcely drawing the portrait of a very melancholy man . 
It is not indeed my character and I had , in a comparison with my comrades , many reasons for content . 
In the first place , I had no family I was an orphan and a bachelor neither wife nor child awaited me in France . 
The first of my troubles , indeed , was the costume we were obliged to wear . 
I have again and again looked round upon my fellow prisoners , and felt my anger rise , and choked upon tears , to behold them thus parodied . 
And I used to see myself in fancy , and blush . 
It seemed that my more elegant carriage would but point the insult of the travesty . 
But I must not recall these tender and sorrowful memories twice their place is further on , and I am now upon another business . 
The perfidy of the Britannic Government stood nowhere more openly confessed than in one particular of our discipline that we were shaved twice in the week . 
To a man who has loved all his life to be fresh shaven , can a more irritating indignity be devised ? Monday and Thursday were the days . 
Take the Thursday , and conceive the picture I must present by Sunday evening ! And Saturday , which was almost as bad , was the great day for visitors . 
Those who came to our market were of all qualities , men and women , the lean and the stout , the plain and the fairly pretty . 
it seemed I was aware of it . 
She had an air of angelic candour , yet of a high spirit she stepped like a Diana , every movement was noble and free . 
I was thinking what a vile day it was , when she appeared . 
I was on foot at once I had forgot my mustard coloured clothes , I had forgot the private soldier and his salute . 
Bowing deeply , I offered her the slip of cambric . 
'Madam , said I , 'your handkerchief . 
The wind brought it me . 
I met her eyes fully . 
'I thank you , sir , said she . 
'The wind brought it me , I repeated . 
'May I not take it for an omen ? You have an English proverb , It's an ill wind that blows nobody good . 
'Well , she said , with a smile , One good turn deserves another . 
I will see what you have . 
She followed me to where my wares were spread out under lee of a piece of cannon . 
'Alas , mademoiselle ! said I , 'I am no very perfect craftsman . 
This is supposed to be a house , and you see the chimneys are awry . 
FAILURES FOR SALE should be on my signboard . 
I do not keep a shop I keep a Humorous Museum . 
I cast a smiling glance about my display , and then at her , and instantly became grave . 
A few days after she came again . 
But I must first tell you how she came to be so frequent . 
A big , bustling , bold old lady , she flounced about our market place with insufferable airs of patronage and condescension . 
She bought , indeed , with liberality , but her manner of studying us through a quizzing glass , and playing cicerone to her followers , acquitted us of any gratitude . 
She had a tail behind her of heavy , obsequious old gentlemen , or dull , giggling misses , to whom she appeared to be an oracle . 
'This one can really carve prettily is he not a quiz with his big whiskers ? she would say . 
'And this one , indicating myself with her gold eye glass , 'is , I assure you , quite an oddity . 
The oddity , you may be certain , ground his teeth . 
Needless to say , these passages were before I had remarked the niece . 
I kept my eyes down , but they were ever fixed in the same direction , quite in vain . 
Closely as I had watched her , I could not say her eyes had ever rested on me for an instant and my heart was overwhelmed with bitterness and blackness . 
I was a prisoner , a slave , a contemned and despicable being , the butt of her sniggering countrymen . 
She was very still and timid her voice was low . 
Did I suffer in my captivity ? she asked me . 
Had I to complain of any hardship ? 'Mademoiselle , I have not learned to complain , said I. 'I am a soldier of Napoleon . 
'At least you must regret LA FRANCE , said she , and coloured a little as she pronounced the words , which she did with a pretty strangeness of accent . 
'What am I to say ? I replied . 
'You have a mother ? she asked . 
'In heaven , mademoiselle , I answered . 
'She , and my father also , went by the same road to heaven as so many others of the fair and brave they followed their queen upon the scaffold . 
So , you see , I am not so much to be pitied in my prison , I continued 'there are none to wait for me I am alone in the world . 
'Tis a different case , for instance , with yon poor fellow in the cloth cap . 
His bed is next to mine , and in the night I hear him sobbing to himself . 
Do you know what made him take me for a confidant ? She parted her lips with a look , but did not speak . 
The look burned all through me with a sudden vital heat . 
'Because I had once seen , in marching by , the belfry of his village ! I continued . 
'The circumstance is quaint enough . 
'I will take this toy , she said , laid a five and sixpenny piece in my hand , and was gone ere I could thank her . 
I retired to a place apart near the ramparts and behind a gun . 
What had she said ? Nothing to signify but her eyes had met mine , and the fire they had kindled burned inextinguishably in my veins . 
I loved her and I did not fear to hope . 
What mattered if I were half shaved and my clothes a caricature ? I was still a man , and I had drawn my image on her memory . 
I was still a man , and , as I trembled to realise , she was still a woman . 
Many waters cannot quench love and love , which is the law of the world , was on my side . 
I closed my eyes , and she sprang up on the background of the darkness , more beautiful than in life . 
'Ah ! thought I , 'and you too , my dear , you too must carry away with you a picture , that you are still to behold again and still to embellish . 
And then I had a vision of myself , and burst out laughing . 
grow at its own rate to move just so fast , and not by a hair's breadth any faster , than the inclination of her heart . 
I was the man , and yet I was passive , tied by the foot in prison . 
I could not go to her I must cast a spell upon her at each visit , so that she should return to me and this was a matter of nice management . 
I had done it the last time it seemed impossible she should not come again after our interview and for the next I had speedily ripened a fresh plan . 
I had been then some days upon a piece of carving , no less than the emblem of Scotland , the Lion Rampant . 
, added on the base the following dedication . 
A LA BELLE FLORA LE PRISONNIER RECONNAISSANT A. D. ST . 
Y. D. K. I put my heart into the carving of these letters . 
What was done with so much ardour , it seemed scarce possible that any should behold with indifference and the initials would at least suggest to her my noble birth . 
This done , there was nothing left for me but to wait and to hope . 
And there is nothing further from my character in love and in war , I am all for the forward movement and these days of waiting made my purgatory . 
It is a fact that I loved her a great deal better at the end of them , for love comes , like bread , from a perpetual rehandling . 
And besides , I was fallen into a panic of fear . 
At last I saw her approach me in the company of a boy about her own age , and whom I divined at once to be her brother . 
I rose and bowed in silence . 
'This is my brother , Mr. Ronald Gilchrist , said she . 
'I have told him of your sufferings . 
He is so sorry for you ! 'It is more than I have the right to ask , I replied 'but among gentlefolk these generous sentiments are natural . 
If your brother and I were to meet in the field , we should meet like tigers but when he sees me here disarmed and helpless , he forgets his animosity . 
'Ah , my dear young lady , I continued , 'there are many of your countrymen languishing in my country , even as I do here . 
I can but hope there is found some French lady to convey to each of them the priceless consolation of her sympathy . 
You have given me alms and more than alms hope and while you were absent I was not forgetful . 
Suffer me to be able to tell myself that I have at least tried to make a return and for the prisoner's sake deign to accept this trifle . 
So saying , I offered her my lion , which she took , looked at in some embarrassment , and then , catching sight of the dedication , broke out with a cry . 
'Why , how did you know my name ? she exclaimed . 
'When names are so appropriate , they should be easily guessed , said I , bowing . 
'But indeed , there was no magic in the matter . 
A lady called you by name on the day I found your handkerchief , and I was quick to remark and cherish it . 
'It is very , very beautiful , said she , 'and I shall be always proud of the inscription . 
Come , Ronald , we must be going . 
No greenhorn in matters of the heart , I was besides aware that I had now a resident ambassador at the court of my lady . 
The lion might be ill chiselled it was mine . 
And as for the impulse that had made her bring and introduce him , I could not sufficiently admire it . 
It seemed to me finer than wit , and more tender than a caress . 
, 'I do not and I cannot know you . 
Here is my brother you can know him this is the way to me follow it . 
CHAPTER II A TALE OF A PAIR OF SCISSORS I WAS still plunged in these thoughts when the bell was rung that discharged our visitors into the street . 
Some of these old whiskerandos , originally peasants , trained since boyhood in victorious armies , and accustomed to move among subject and trembling populations , could ill brook their change of circumstance . 
Our rations were scarce served out , and I had just withdrawn into a corner of the yard , when I perceived him drawing near . 
He took a place beside me , spread out his rations , drank to me derisively from his measure of prison beer , and began . 
What he said it would be impossible to print but his admirers , who believed their wit to have surpassed himself , actually rolled among the gravel . 
For my part , I thought at first I should have died . 
I had not dreamed the wretch was so observant but hate sharpens the ears , and he had counted our interviews and actually knew Flora by her name . 
Gradually my coolness returned to me , accompanied by a volume of living anger that surprised myself . 
'Are you nearly done ? I asked . 
'Because if you are , I am about to say a word or two myself . 
'Oh , fair play ! said he . 
'Turn about ! The Marquis of Carabas to the tribune . 
'Very well , said I. 'I have to inform you that I am a gentleman . 
You do not know what that means , hey ? Well , I will tell you . 
The lion is a gentleman he will not touch carrion . 
I am a gentleman , and I cannot bear to soil my fingers with such a lump of dirt . 
Sit still , Philippe Goguelat ! sit still and do not say a word , or I shall know you are a coward the eyes of our guards are upon us . 
Here is your health ! said I , and pledged him in the prison beer . 
If the Emperor' saluting 'if my Emperor could hear you , he would pluck off the Cross from your gross body . 
I cannot do that I cannot take away what His Majesty has given but one thing I promise you I promise you , Goguelat , you shall be dead to night . 
I had borne so much from him in the past , I believe he thought there was no end to my forbearance , and he was at first amazed . 
Whatever the cause , at least , he had soon pulled himself together , and took the thing handsomely . 
'And I promise you , by the devil's horns , that you shall have the chance ! said he , and pledged me again and again I did him scrupulous honour . 
Goguelat and I slept in the same squad , which greatly simplified the business and a committee of honour was accordingly formed of our shed mates . 
They chose for president a sergeant major in the th Dragoons , a greybeard of the army , an excellent military subject , and a good man . 
He took the most serious view of his functions , visited us both , and reported our replies to the committee . 
Mine was of a decent firmness . 
I told him the young lady of whom Goguelat had spoken had on several occasions given me alms . 
I reminded him that , if we were now reduced to hold out our hands and sell pill boxes for charity , it was something very new for soldiers of the Empire . 
We had all seen bandits standing at a corner of a wood truckling for copper halfpence , and after their benefactors were gone spitting out injuries and curses . 
'But , said I , 'I trust that none of us will fall so low . 
As a Frenchman and a soldier , I owe that young child gratitude , and am bound to protect her character , and to support that of the army . 
You are my elder and my superior tell me if I am not right . 
He was a quiet mannered old fellow , and patted me with three fingers on the back . 
'C'EST BIEN , MON ENFANT , says he , and returned to his committee . 
Goguelat was no more accommodating than myself . 
'I do not like apologies nor those that make them , was his only answer . 
And there remained nothing but to arrange the details of the meeting . 
The question of arms was more obscure . 
It was a strange thing to feel in one's hand this weapon , which was no heavier than a riding rod , and which it was difficult to suppose would prove more dangerous . 
betray the name of the survivor . 
And with that , all being then ready , we composed ourselves to await the moment . 
Leclos , the sergeant major , set us in our stations , engaged our wands , and left us . 
To avoid blood stained clothing , my adversary and I had stripped to the shoes and the chill of the night enveloped our bodies like a wet sheet . 
The man was better at fencing than myself he was vastly taller than I , being of a stature almost gigantic , and proportionately strong . 
In the inky blackness of the shed , it was impossible to see his eyes and from the suppleness of the wands , I did not like to trust to a parade . 
'ALLEZ ! said the sergeant major . 
Both lunged in the same moment with an equal fury , and but for my manoeuvre both had certainly been spitted . 
When I came to myself I was laid in my own sleeping place , and could make out in the darkness the outline of perhaps a dozen heads crowded around me . 
'What is it ? I exclaimed . 
'Hush ! said the sergeant major . 
'Blessed be God , all is well . 
I felt him clasp my hand , and there were tears in his voice . 
''Tis but a scratch , my child here is papa , who is taking good care of you . 
Your shoulder is bound up we have dressed you in your clothes again , and it will all be well . 
At this I began to remember . 
'And Goguelat ? I gasped . 
'He cannot bear to be moved he has his bellyful 'tis a bad business , said the sergeant major . 
The idea of having killed a man with such an instrument as half a pair of scissors seemed to turn my stomach . 
I am sure I might have killed a dozen with a firelock , a sabre , a bayonet , or any accepted weapon , and been visited by no such sickness of remorse . 
And to this feeling every unusual circumstance of our rencounter , the darkness in which we had fought , our nakedness , even the resin on the twine , appeared to contribute . 
I ran to my fallen adversary , kneeled by him , and could only sob his name . 
He bade me compose myself . 
'You have given me the key of the fields , comrade , said he . 
'SANS RANCUNE ! At this my horror redoubled . 
Here had we two expatriated Frenchmen engaged in an ill regulated combat like the battles of beasts . 
I insisted that the guards should be summoned and a doctor brought . 
'It may still be possible to save him , I cried . 
The sergeant major reminded me of our engagement . 
'If you had been wounded , said he , 'you must have lain there till the patrol came by and found you . 
It happens to be Goguelat and so must he ! Come , child , time to go to by by . 
And as I still resisted , 'Champdivers ! he said , 'this is weakness . 
'Ay , off to your beds with you ! said Goguelat , and named us in a company with one of his jovial gross epithets . 
Accordingly the squad lay down in the dark and simulated , what they certainly were far from experiencing , sleep . 
It was not yet late . 
The city , from far below , and all around us , sent up a sound of wheels and feet and lively voices . 
Meantime , in the midst of us lay Goguelat , and could not always withhold himself from groaning . 
We heard the round far off heard it draw slowly nearer . 
'Hullo ! cried the corporal , pausing as he came by Goguelat . 
He stooped with his lantern . 
All our hearts were flying . 
'What devil's work is this ? he cried , and with a startling voice summoned the guard . 
We were all afoot upon the instant more lanterns and soldiers crowded in front of the shed an officer elbowed his way in . 
In the midst was the big naked body , soiled with blood . 
Some one had covered him with his blanket but as he lay there in agony , he had partly thrown it off . 
'This is murder ! cried the officer . 
'You wild beasts , you will hear of this to morrow . 
As Goguelat was raised and laid upon a stretcher , he cried to us a cheerful and blasphemous farewell . 
CHAPTER III MAJOR CHEVENIX COMES INTO THE STORY , AND GOGUELAT GOES OUT THERE was never any talk of a recovery , and no time was lost in getting the man's deposition . 
He gave but the one account of it that he had committed suicide because he was sick of seeing so many Englishmen . 
The doctor vowed it was impossible , the nature and direction of the wound forbidding it . 
The doctor , who was a little , spruce , ruddy man of an impatient temper , pished and pshawed and swore over his patient . 
'Nothing to be made of him ! he cried . 
If we could only find the weapon ! But the weapon had ceased to exist . 
No stone was left unturned . 
We were had in again and again to be examined , now singly , now in twos and threes . 
We were threatened with all sorts of impossible severities and tempted with all manner of improbable rewards . 
I suppose I was five times interrogated , and came off from each with flying colours . 
I may have been short of bread , gold or grace I was never yet found wanting in an answer . 
No need to inquire as to its nature there is only one desire , and only one kind of design , that blooms in prisons . 
And the fact that our tunnel was near done supported and inspired us . 
It was the third morning after the duel , and Goguelat was still in life , when the time came round for me to give Major Chevenix a lesson . 
Chevenix was handsome , and surprisingly young to be a major six feet in his stockings , well set up , with regular features and very clear grey eyes . 
It was impossible to pick a fault in him , and yet the sum total was displeasing . 
Perhaps he was too clean he seemed to bear about with him the smell of soap . 
Cleanliness is good , but I cannot bear a man's nails to seem japanned . 
And certainly he was too self possessed and cold . 
There was none of the fire of youth , none of the swiftness of the soldier , in this young officer . 
His kindness was cold , and cruel cold his deliberation exasperating . 
I looked over his exercise in the usual form , and marked six faults . 
Six , says he , looking at the paper . 
'Very annoying ! I can never get it right . 
'Oh , but you make excellent progress ! I said . 
I would not discourage him , you understand , but he was congenitally unable to learn French . 
Some fire , I think , is needful , and he had quenched his fire in soapsuds . 
He put the exercise down , leaned his chin upon his hand , and looked at me with clear , severe eyes . 
'I think we must have a little talk , said he . 
'I am entirely at your disposition , I replied but I quaked , for I knew what subject to expect . 
'You have been some time giving me these lessons , he went on , 'and I am tempted to think rather well of you . 
I believe you are a gentleman . 
'I have that honour , sir , said I. 'You have seen me for the same period . 
I do not know how I strike you but perhaps you will be prepared to believe that I also am a man of honour , said he . 
'I require no assurances the thing is manifest , and I bowed . 
'Very well , then , said he . 
'What about this Goguelat ? 'You heard me yesterday before the court , I began . 
'I was awakened only 'Oh yes I heard you yesterday before the court , no doubt , he interrupted , 'and I remember perfectly that you were awakened only . 
I could repeat the most of it by rote , indeed . 
My impression is that you have come into this room , and that you will tell me something before you go out . 
'Let me explain , he continued . 
'Your evidence , of course , is nonsense . 
I put it by , and the court put it by . 
'My compliments and thanks ! said I. 'You MUST know that's the short and the long , he proceeded . 
'All of you in shed B are bound to know . 
And I want to ask you where is the common sense of keeping up this farce , and maintaining this cock and bull story between friends . 
Come , come , my good fellow , own yourself beaten , and laugh at it yourself . 
'Well , I hear you , go ahead , said I. 'You put your heart in it . 
He crossed his legs slowly . 
'I can very well understand , he began , 'that precautions have had to be taken . 
I dare say an oath was administered . 
I can comprehend that perfectly . 
'And I can comprehend that , about an affair of honour , you would be very particular to keep it . 
'About an affair of honour ? I repeated , like a man quite puzzled . 
'It was not an affair of honour , then ? he asked . 
It could not deceive a child . 
But there was a difference between myself and the other officers , because I KNEW MY MAN and they did not . 
They saw in you a common soldier , and I knew you for a gentleman . 
To them your evidence was a leash of lies , which they yawned to hear you telling . 
Mark what I'm going to say . 
For , as the devil would have it , the shoulder he laid hold of was the one Goguelat had pinked . 
The wound was but a scratch it was healing with the first intention but in the clutch of Major Chevenix it gave me agony . 
My head swam the sweat poured off my face I must have grown deadly pale . 
He removed his hand as suddenly as he had laid it there . 
'What is wrong with you ? said he . 
'It is nothing , said I. 'A qualm . 
'Are you sure ? said he . 
'You are as white as a sheet . 
'Oh no , I assure you ! Nothing whatever . 
I am my own man again , I said , though I could scarce command my tongue . 
'Well , shall I go on again ? says he . 
'If you are sure you can follow me . 
That was a very sudden and sharp seizure , he said doubtfully . 
'But if you are sure , all right , and here goes . 
An affair of honour among you fellows would , naturally , be a little difficult to carry out , perhaps it would be impossible to have it wholly regular . 
And yet a duel might be very irregular in form , and , under the peculiar circumstances of the case , loyal enough in effect . 
Do you take me ? Now , as a gentleman and a soldier . 
His hand rose again at the words and hovered over me . 
I could bear no more , and winced away from him . 
'No , I cried , 'not that . 
Do not put your hand upon my shoulder . 
It is rheumatism , I made haste to add . 
'My shoulder is inflamed and very painful . 
He returned to his chair and deliberately lighted a cigar . 
'I am sorry about your shoulder , he said at last . 
'Let me send for the doctor . 
'Not in the least , said I. 'It is a trifle . 
I am quite used to it . 
It does not trouble me in the smallest . 
At any rate , I don't believe in doctors . 
'All right , said he , and sat and smoked a good while in a silence which I would have given anything to break . 
'Well , he began presently , 'I believe there is nothing left for me to learn . 
I presume I may say that I know all . 
'About what ? said I boldly . 
'About Goguelat , said he . 
I cannot conceive , said I. 'Oh , says the major , 'the man fell in a duel , and by your hand ! I am not an infant . 
'By no means , said I. 'But you seem to me to be a good deal of a theorist . 
'Shall we test it ? he asked . 
'The doctor is close by . 
If there is not an open wound on your shoulder , I am wrong . 
If there is He waved his hand . 
'But I advise you to think twice . 
There is a deuce of a nasty drawback to the experiment that what might have remained private between us two becomes public property . 
'Oh , well ! said I , with a laugh , 'anything rather than a doctor ! I cannot bear the breed . 
His last words had a good deal relieved me , but I was still far from comfortable . 
Major Chevenix smoked awhile , looking now at his cigar ash , now at me . 
'I'm a soldier myself , he says presently , 'and I've been out in my time and hit my man . 
I don't want to run any one into a corner for an affair that was at all necessary or correct . 
At the same time , I want to know that much , and I'll take your word of honour for it . 
Otherwise , I shall be very sorry , but the doctor must be called in . 
'I neither admit anything nor deny anything , I returned . 
'All right , says he . 
'That was all I wanted . 
You can go now , Champdivers . 
He seemed hot and angry , and had certainly no mind to be polite . 
'Which of you fellows knows any English ? Oh ! spying me 'there you are , what's your name ! YOU'LL do . 
Tell these fellows that the other fellow's dying . 
He's booked no use talking I expect he'll go by evening . 
And tell them I don't envy the feelings of the fellow who spiked him . 
'Then you can tell 'em , he resumed , 'that the fellow , Goggle what's his name ? wants to see some of them before he gets his marching orders . 
If I got it right , he wants to kiss or embrace you , or some sickening stuff . 
It was with a singular movement of incongruous feelings that I read the first name on the list . 
Hard by , on a little bed , lay Goguelat . 
The sunburn had not yet faded from his face , and the stamp of death was already there . 
There was something wild and unmannish in his smile , that took me by the throat only death and love know or have ever seen it . 
And when he spoke , it seemed to shame his coarse talk . 
He held out his arms as if to embrace me . 
I drew near with incredible shrinkings , and surrendered myself to his arms with overwhelming disgust . 
But he only drew my ear down to his lips . 
'Trust me , he whispered . 
'JE SUIS BON BOUGRE , MOI . 
I'll take it to hell with me , and tell the devil . 
To my great surprise , the doctor appeared very much affected . 
He nodded his little bob wigged head at us , and said repeatedly , 'All right , Johnny me comprong . 
Then Goguelat shook hands with me , embraced me again , and I went out of the room sobbing like an infant . 
How often have I not seen it , that the most unpardonable fellows make the happiest exits ! It is a fate we may well envy them . 
I had killed him he had done his utmost to protect me I had seen him with that awful smile . 
And so illogical and useless is this sentiment of remorse , that I was ready , at a word or a look , to quarrel with somebody else . 
I had asked him if it was true . 
'Yes , he said , 'the fellow's gone . 
'Did he suffer much ? I asked . 
'Devil a bit passed away like a lamb , said he . 
He looked on me a little , and I saw his hand go to his fob . 
'Here , take that ! no sense in fretting , he said , and , putting a silver two penny bit in my hand , he left me . 
I should have had that twopenny framed to hang upon the wall , for it was the man's one act of charity in all my knowledge of him . 
The night was falling through an embrasure and across the gardened valley I saw the lamplighters hasting along Princes Street with ladder and lamp , and looked on moodily . 
As I was so standing a hand was laid upon my shoulder , and I turned about . 
It was Major Chevenix , dressed for the evening , and his neckcloth really admirably folded . 
I never denied the man could dress . 
'Ah ! said he , 'I thought it was you , Champdivers . 
So he's gone ? I nodded . 
'Come , come , said he , 'you must cheer up . 
Of course it's very distressing , very painful and all that . 
But do you know , it ain't such a bad thing either for you or me ? What with his death and your visit to him I am entirely reassured . 
So I was to owe my life to Goguelat at every point . 
'I had rather not discuss it , said I. 'Well , said he , 'one word more , and I'll agree to bury the subject . 
What did you fight about ? 'Oh , what do men ever fight about ? I cried . 
'A lady ? said he . 
'Deuce you did ! said he . 
'I should scarce have thought it of him . 
And at this my ill humour broke fairly out in words . 
'Well , well , said he . 
'Good night to you , Champdivers . 
Come to me at breakfast time to morrow , and we'll talk of other subjects . 
I fully admit the man's conduct was not bad in writing it down so long after the events I can even see that it was good . 
IVES GETS A BUNDLE OF BANK NOTES I WAS surprised one morning , shortly after , to find myself the object of marked consideration by a civilian and a stranger . 
In spite of his plainness , he had that inscrutable air of a man well to do in his affairs . 
I conceived he had been some while observing me from a distance , for a sparrow sat betwixt us quite unalarmed on the breech of a piece of cannon . 
So soon as our eyes met , he drew near and addressed me in the French language , which he spoke with a good fluency but an abominable accent . 
'I have the pleasure of addressing Monsieur le Vicomte Anne de Keroual de Saint Yves ? said he . 
'Well , said I , 'I do not call myself all that but I have a right to , if I chose . 
In the meanwhile I call myself plain Champdivers , at your disposal . 
It was my mother's name , and good to go soldiering with . 
'I think not quite , said he 'for if I remember rightly , your mother also had the particle . 
Her name was Florimonde de Champdivers . 
'Right again ! said I , 'and I am extremely pleased to meet a gentleman so well informed in my quarterings . 
He seemed to think so too , for he laughed . 
'What ! I cried , 'does M. de Keroual de St . 
Yves remember the existence of such a person as myself , and will he deign to count kinship with a soldier of Napoleon ? 'You speak English well , observed my visitor . 
A strong expression of interest came into the lawyer's face . 
'What ! he cried , 'you knew poor Vicary ? 'For more than a year , said I 'and shared his hiding place for many months . 
'And I was his clerk , and have succeeded him in business , said he . 
'Excellent man ! It was on the affairs of M. de Keroual that he went to that accursed country , from which he was never destined to return . 
Do you chance to know his end , sir ? 'I am sorry , said I , 'I do . 
He perished miserably at the hands of a gang of banditti , such as we call CHAUFFEURS . 
In a word , he was tortured , and died of it . 
See , I added , kicking off one shoe , for I had no stockings 'I was no more than a child , and see how they had begun to treat myself . 
He looked at the mark of my old burn with a certain shrinking . 
'Beastly people ! I heard him mutter to himself . 
'The English may say so with a good grace , I observed politely . 
Such speeches were the coin in which I paid my way among this credulous race . 
of our visitors would have accepted the remark as natural in itself and creditable to my powers of judgment , but it appeared my lawyer was more acute . 
'You are not entirely a fool , I perceive , said he . 
'No , said I 'not wholly . 
'And yet it is well to beware of the ironical mood , he continued . 
'It is a dangerous instrument . 
Your great uncle has , I believe , practised it very much , until it is now become a problem what he means . 
'It is rather an odd story , says he , 'and , with your leave , I'll answer the second question first . 
It was from a certain resemblance you bear to your cousin , M. le Vicomte . 
'I trust , sir , that I resemble him advantageously ? said I. 'I hasten to reassure you , was the reply 'you do . 
To my eyes , M. Alain de St . 
Yves has scarce a pleasing exterior . 
And yet , when I knew you were here , and was actually looking for you why , the likeness helped . 
As for how I came to know your whereabouts , by an odd enough chance , it is again M. Alain we have to thank . 
I should tell you , he has for some time made it his business to keep M. de Keroual informed of your career with what purpose I leave you to judge . 
When he first brought the news of your that you were serving Buonaparte , it seemed it might be the death of the old gentleman , so hot was his resentment . 
But from one thing to another , matters have a little changed . 
Or I should rather say , not a little . 
We learned you were under orders for the Peninsula , to fight the English then that you had been commissioned for a piece of bravery , and were again reduced to the ranks . 
My visitor now paused , took snuff , and looked at me with an air of benevolence . 
'Good God , sir ! says I , 'this is a curious story . 
'You will say so before I have done , said he . 
'For there have two events followed . 
The first of these was an encounter of M. de Keroual and M. de Mauseant . 
'I know the man to my cost , said I 'it was through him I lost my commission . 
'Do you tell me so ? he cried . 
'Why , here is news ! 'Oh , I cannot complain ! said I. 'I was in the wrong . 
I did it with my eyes open . 
If a man gets a prisoner to guard and lets him go , the least he can expect is to be degraded . 
'You will be paid for it , said he . 
'You did well for yourself and better for your king . 
'Well , well , said the lawyer , 'no matter now . 
Hard upon the back of which , in came your humble servant , and laid before him the direct proof of what we had been so long suspecting . 
There was no dubiety permitted . 
To do M. de Keroual justice , he took it in the best way imaginable , destroyed the evidences of the one great nephew's disgrace and transferred his interest wholly to the other . 
'What am I to understand by that ? said I. 'I will tell you , says he . 
'There is a remarkable inconsistency in human nature which gentlemen of my cloth have a great deal of occasion to observe . 
You can apply this principle for yourself . 
Viscount Alain , though he scarce guesses it , is no longer in the field . 
'I see , said I , 'you give a very unfavourable impression of my uncle , the Count . 
'I had not meant it , said he . 
'He has led a loose life sadly loose but he is a man it is impossible to know and not to admire his courtesy is exquisite . 
'And so you think there is actually a chance for me ? I asked . 
'Understand , said he 'in saying as much as I have done , I travel quite beyond my brief . 
I have been clothed with no capacity to talk of wills , or heritages , or your cousin . 
I was sent here to make but the one communication that M. de Keroual desires to meet his great nephew . 
'Well , said I , looking about me on the battlements by which we sat surrounded , 'this is a case in which Mahomet must certainly come to the mountain . 
No , no , there is no doubt about it it is the mountain that must come to Mahomet . 
'I am first of all the lawyer of your family ! says he . 
'That being so , said I , 'I can perhaps stretch a point myself . 
Once at the bottom I am helpless . 
'And perhaps it is just then that I could step in , returned the lawyer . 
'Suppose by some contingency , at which I make no guess , and on which I offer no opinion But here I interrupted him . 
'One word ere you go further . 
I am under no parole , said I. 'I understood so much , he replied , 'although some of you French gentry find their word sit lightly on them . 
'Sir , I am not one of those , said I. 'To do you plain justice , I do not think you one , said he . 
In the first place I would carry this , whether in an inside pocket or my shoe . 
And he passed me a bundle of bank notes . 
'No harm in that , said I , at once concealing them . 
In fact , sir , I believe it's the man's trade a piece of knowledge that burns my mouth . 
But that is what you get by meddling with rogues and perhaps the biggest rogue now extant , M. de Saint Yves , is your cousin , M. Alain . 
'But I am inclined to think , so far as anything is safe in such a nasty business , you might apply to the man Fenn . 
You might even , I think , use the Viscount's name and the little trick of family resemblance might come in . 
For what stakes , then , am I playing ? 'They are very large , said he . 
'Your great uncle is immensely rich immensely rich . 
He was wise in time he smelt the revolution long before sold all that he could , and had all that was movable transported to England through my firm . 
There are considerable estates in England Amersham Place itself is very fine and he has much money , wisely invested . 
He lives , indeed , like a prince . 
My parents , who were less wise perhaps , remained . 
In the beginning , they were even republicans to the end they could not be persuaded to despair of the people . 
It was a glorious folly , for which , as a son , I reverence them . 
First one and then the other perished . 
If I have any mark of a gentleman , all who taught me died upon the scaffold , and my last school of manners was the prison of the Abbaye . 
Do you think you can teach bitterness to a man with a history like mine ? 'I have no wish to try , said he . 
'And yet there is one point I cannot understand I cannot understand that one of your blood and experience should serve the Corsican . 
I cannot understand it it seems as though everything generous in you must rise against that domination . 
'And perhaps , I retorted , 'had your childhood passed among wolves , you would have been overjoyed yourself to see the Corsican Shepherd . 
'Well , well , replied Mr. Romaine , 'it may be . 
There are things that do not bear discussion . 
And with a wave of his hand he disappeared abruptly down a flight of steps and under the shadow of a ponderous arch . 
IVES IS SHOWN A HOUSE THE lawyer was scarce gone before I remembered many omissions and chief among these , that I had neglected to get Mr. Burchell Fenn's address . 
Here was an essential point neglected and I ran to the head of the stairs to find myself already too late . 
I am not very sure that I was properly entitled to this corner . 
It was impossible at such a distance that I could be sure , but the thought was sufficient , and I craned out of the embrasure to follow them as long as possible . 
she might amuse a husband and children ! No , the impression must be clenched , the wax impressed with the seal , ere I left Edinburgh . 
And at this the two interests that were now contending in my bosom came together and became one . 
I wished to see Flora again and I wanted some one to further me in my flight and to get me new clothes . 
If it were to be done at all , they must be my helpers . 
To tell them of my designed escape while I was still in bonds , would be to lay before them a most difficult choice . 
I was far from sure what I should do myself . 
It was plain I must escape first . 
When the harm was done , when I was no more than a poor wayside fugitive , I might apply to them with less offence and more security . 
It will be seen the first was good enough . 
Perhaps two days after , Master Ronald put in an appearance by himself . 
I had no hold upon the boy , and pretermitted my design till I should have laid court to him and engaged his interest . 
'Well , said I , 'they are fine troops , your British troops in the Peninsula . 
A young gentleman of spirit may well be proud to be engaged at the head of such soldiers . 
'I know that , he said 'I think of nothing else . 
I think shame to be dangling here at home and going through with this foolery of education , while others , no older than myself , are in the field . 
'I cannot blame you , said I. 'I have felt the same myself . 
'There are there are no troops , are there , quite so good as ours ? he asked . 
'Well , said I , 'there is a point about them they have a defect , they are not to be trusted in a retreat . 
I have seen them behave very ill in a retreat . 
'I believe that is our national character , he said God forgive him ! with an air of pride . 
'I am quite surprised , he said at last . 
'People tell you the French are insincere . 
Now , I think your sincerity is beautiful . 
I think you have a noble character . 
I admire you very much . 
I am very grateful for your kindness to to one so young , and he offered me his hand . 
'I shall see you again soon ? said I. 'Oh , now ! Yes , very soon , said he . 
'I I wish to tell you . 
I would not let Flora Miss Gilchrist , I mean come to day . 
I wished to see more of you myself . 
I trust you are not offended you know , one should be careful about strangers . 
As I had half expected , both made their appearance the next day . 
It may seem a strange subject for a confidence , but there is actually no one here , even of my comrades , that knows me by my name and title . 
I must hide like a crime . 
Miss Flora , suffer me to present to you the Vicomte Anne de Keroual de Saint Yves , a private soldier . 
'I knew it ! cried the boy 'I knew he was a noble ! And I thought the eyes of Miss Flora said the same , but more persuasively . 
All through this interview she kept them on the ground , or only gave them to me for a moment at a time , and with a serious sweetness . 
'You may conceive , my friends , that this is rather a painful confession , I continued . 
'To stand here before you , vanquished , a prisoner in a fortress , and take my own name upon my lips , is painful to the proud . 
And yet I wished that you should know me . 
This would have been all mighty welcome , before the tunnel was ready . 
Now it signified no more to me than to offer the transition I required . 
You see me set here on the top of this rock in the midst of your city . 
Even with what liberty I have , I have the opportunity to see a myriad roofs , and I dare to say , thirty leagues of sea and land . 
Pardon me , dear friends , I know that you must do the same , and I do not grudge at it ! With you , it is all different . 
'It is a pretty thought , said she , 'and , as far as regards Ronald and myself , a true one . 
Come , I believe I can show you the very smoke out of our chimney . 
So saying , she carried me round the battlements towards the opposite or southern side of the fortress , and indeed to a bastion almost immediately overlooking the place of our projected flight . 
Thence we had a view of some foreshortened suburbs at our feet , and beyond of a green , open , and irregular country rising towards the Pentland Hills . 
is marked with a procession of white scars . 
And to this she directed my attention . 
'You see these marks ? she said . 
'We call them the Seven Sisters . 
That is Swanston Cottage , where my brother and I are living with my aunt . 
If it gives you pleasure to see it , I am glad . 
I will come here daily and look at that dear chimney and these green hills , and bless you from the heart , and dedicate to you the prayers of this poor sinner . 
Ah ! I do not say they can avail ! 'Who can say that , M. de Saint Yves ? she said softly . 
'But I think it is time we should be going . 
I had a little forgotten . 
'Who is that man ? she asked . 
'He is a friend of mine , said I. 'I give him lessons in French , and he has been very kind to me . 
'I tell you the man stared , she said . 
'Oh , I don't think he meant any harm . 
I suppose he was just surprised to see us walking about with a pr with M. Saint Yves . 
But the next morning , when I went to Chevenix's rooms , and after I had dutifully corrected his exercise 'I compliment you on your taste , said he to me . 
'I beg your pardon ? said I. 'Oh no , I beg yours , said he . 
'You understand me perfectly , just as I do you . 
I murmured something about enigmas . 
'Well , shall I give you the key to the enigma ? said he , leaning back . 
'That was the young lady whom Goguelat insulted and whom you avenged . 
I do not blame you . 
She is a heavenly creature . 
'What is her name ? he asked . 
'Now , really ! said I. 'Do you think it likely she has told me ? 'I think it certain , said he . 
I could not restrain my laughter . 
'Well , then , do you think it likely I would tell you ? I cried . 
'But come , to our lesson ! CHAPTER VI THE ESCAPE THE time for our escape drew near , and the nearer it came the less we seemed to enjoy the prospect . 
In all other directions an abominable precipice surrounds it , down the face of which we must regain our liberty . 
have I the least desire of his acquaintance . 
From the heel of the masonry , the rascally , breakneck precipice descended sheer among waste lands , scattered suburbs of the city , and houses in the building . 
I don't know where the rope was got , and doubt if I much cared . 
It was not that which gravelled me , but whether , now that we had it , it would serve our turn . 
A private of pioneers remembered the formula for that or else remembered part of it and obligingly invented the remainder . 
I had never any real confidence in that formula and even had we got it from a book , there were difficulties in the way of the application that might have daunted Archimedes . 
We durst not drop any considerable pebble lest the sentinels should hear , and those that we dropped we could not hear ourselves . 
We had never a watch or none that had a second hand and though every one of us could guess a second to a nicety , all somehow guessed it differently . 
In short , if any two set forth upon this enterprise , they invariably returned with two opinions , and often with a black eye in the bargain . 
I looked on upon these proceedings , although not without laughter , yet with impatience and disgust . 
I am one that cannot bear to see things botched or gone upon with ignorance and the thought that some poor devil was to hazard his bones upon such premises , revolted me . 
Had I guessed the name of that unhappy first adventurer , my sentiments might have been livelier still . 
This caused a good deal of joy in Shed B , and would have caused more if it had not still remained to choose our pioneer . 
But it was , in our case , more than a little . 
We discussed it in the dark and between the passage of the rounds and it was impossible for any body of men to show a less adventurous spirit . 
I am sure some of us , and myself first among the number , regretted Goguelat . 
Others , again , condemned the whole idea as insane among these , as ill luck would have it , a seaman of the fleet who was the most dispiriting of all . 
The height , he reminded us , was greater than the tallest ship's mast , the rope entirely free and he as good as defied the boldest and strongest to succeed . 
We were relieved from this dead lock by our sergeant major of dragoons . 
'Comrades , said he , 'I believe I rank you all and for that reason , if you really wish it , I will be the first myself . 
At the same time , you are to consider what the chances are that I may prove to be the last , as well . 
I am no longer young I was sixty near a month ago . 
Since I have been a prisoner , I have made for myself a little BEDAINE . 
My arms are all gone to fat . 
And you must promise not to blame me , if I fall and play the devil with the whole thing . 
'We cannot hear of such a thing ! said I. 'M . 
Laclas is the oldest man here and , as such , he should be the very last to offer . 
It is plain , we must draw lots . 
'No , said M. Laclas 'you put something else in my head ! There is one here who owes a pretty candle to the others , for they have kept his secret . 
Besides , the rest of us are only rabble and he is another affair altogether . 
Let Champdivers let the noble go the first . 
I confess there was a notable pause before the noble in question got his voice . 
But there was no room for choice . 
I had been so ill advised , when I first joined the regiment , as to take ground on my nobility . 
I had been often rallied on the matter in the ranks , and had passed under the by names of MONSEIGNEUR and THE MARQUIS . 
It was now needful I should justify myself and take a fair revenge . 
Any little hesitation I may have felt passed entirely unnoticed , from the lucky incident of a round happening at that moment to go by . 
And during the interval of silence there occurred something that sent my blood to the boil . 
There was a private in our shed called Clausel , a man of a very ugly disposition . 
He had made one of the followers of Goguelat but , whereas Goguelat had always a kind of monstrous gaiety about him , Clausel was no less morose than he was evil minded . 
He was sometimes called THE GENERAL , and sometimes by a name too ill mannered for repetition . 
But , first of all , there is a hound here to be punished . 
M. Clausel has just insulted me , and dishonoured the French army and I demand that he run the gauntlet of this shed . 
There was but one voice asking what he had done , and , as soon as I had told them , but one voice agreeing to the punishment . 
The General was , in consequence , extremely roughly handled , and the next day was congratulated by all who saw him on his NEW DECORATIONS . 
It was lucky for us that he was one of the prime movers and believers in our project of escape , or he had certainly revenged himself by a denunciation . 
As for his feelings towards myself , they appeared , by his looks , to surpass humanity and I made up my mind to give him a wide berth in the future . 
Had I been to go down that instant , I believe I could have carried it well . 
But it was already too late the day was at hand . 
The rest had still to be summoned . 
During this interval , I have to direct your sympathies on the Vicomte de Saint Yves ! All addressed me softly , like folk round a sickbed . 
I believe the piece was worth the money too ! And yet the voice stuck in my throat with which I must thank him . 
I found myself , in a word , to be fed up like a prisoner in a camp of anthropophagi , and honoured like the sacrificial bull . 
And what with these annoyances , and the risky venture immediately ahead , I found my part a trying one to play . 
It was a good deal of a relief when the third evening closed about the castle with volumes of sea fog . 
We made haste to lie down . 
Had our jailers been upon the watch , they must have observed our conversation to die out unusually soon . 
Yet I doubt if any of us slept . 
Each lay in his place , tortured at once with the hope of liberty and the fear of a hateful death . 
The guard call sounded the hum of the town declined by little and little . 
On all sides of us , in their different quarters , we could hear the watchman cry the hours along the street . 
It was ever a thought with me how differently that cry would re echo in the chamber of lovers , beside the bed of death , or in the condemned cell . 
At which we were all silently afoot . 
At last I could bear them no longer . 
'Be so obliging as to let me be ! said I. 'I am neither a coward nor a fool . 
What do YOU know of whether the rope be long enough ? But I shall know it in ten minutes ! The good old fellow laughed in his moustache , and patted me . 
It was all very well to show the disposition of my temper before a friend alone before my assembled comrades the thing had to go handsomely . 
It was then my time to come on the stage and I hope I took it handsomely . 
'Now , gentlemen , said I , 'if the rope is ready , here is the criminal ! The tunnel was cleared , the stake driven , the rope extended . 
As I moved forward to the place , many of my comrades caught me by the hand and wrung it , an attention I could well have done without . 
When the earth failed under my feet , I thought my heart would have stopped and a moment after I was demeaning myself in mid air like a drunken jumping jack . 
I have never been a model of piety , but at this juncture prayers and a cold sweat burst from me simultaneously . 
The line was knotted at intervals of eighteen inches and to the inexpert it may seem as if it should have been even easy to descend . 
The trouble was , this devil of a piece of rope appeared to be inspired , not with life alone , but with a personal malignity against myself . 
I had no eyes to see with and I doubt if there was anything to see but darkness . 
I must occasionally have caught a gasp of breath , but it was quite unconscious . 
And the whole forces of my mind were so consumed with losing hold and getting it again , that I could scarce have told whether I was going up or coming down . 
I drew one of the sweetest breaths in my experience , hugged myself against the rope , and closed my eyes in a kind of ecstasy of relief . 
It occurred to me next to see how far I was advanced on my unlucky journey , a point on which I had not a shadow of a guess . 
I looked up there was nothing above me but the blackness of the night and the fog . 
I craned timidly forward and looked down . 
As it chanced , the worst of the danger was at an end , and I was so fortunate as to be never again exposed to any violent concussion . 
This made me a second landmark , the ledge being my first . 
I began accordingly to compute intervals of time so much to the ledge , so much again to the wallflower , so much more below . 
In the midst of which I came to a bearing on plain ground , and had nearly wept aloud . 
But this was no time to give way . 
got myself alive out of that fortress and now I had to try to get the others , my comrades . 
There was about a fathom of rope to spare I got it by the end , and searched the whole ground thoroughly for anything to make it fast to . 
In vain the ground was broken and stony , but there grew not there so much as a bush of furze . 
'Now then , thought I to myself , 'here begins a new lesson , and I believe it will prove richer than the first . 
I am not strong enough to keep this rope extended . 
If I do not keep it extended the next man will be dashed against the precipice . 
There is no reason why he should have my extravagant good luck . 
I see no reason why he should not fall nor any place for him to fall on but my head . 
What was yet worse , we had agreed to do without signals every so many minutes by Laclas' watch another man was to be started from the battlements . 
I could not refrain , at this ridiculous image , from a chuckle of laughter . 
And the next moment I knew , by the jerking of the rope , that my friend had crawled out of the tunnel and was fairly launched on his descent . 
It was like the fellow , who had no harm in him beyond an instinctive selfishness . 
But he was like to have paid pretty dearly for the privilege . 
As soon as he could breathe he cursed me beyond belief , wept over his finger , which he had broken , and cursed me again . 
I bade him be still and think shame of himself to be so great a cry baby . 
I knew their plan they had a map and an almanack , and designed for Grangemouth , where they were to steal a ship . 
Suppose them to do so , I had no idea they were qualified to manage it after it was stolen . 
Well , now they were beyond my help , as they had always been beyond my counselling and , without word said or leave taken , I stole out of the little crowd . 
I believed the man to be capable of any infamy , and events have since shown that I was right . 
CHAPTER VII SWANSTON COTTAGE I HAD two views . 
What I should do there and then , I had no guess , and did not greatly care , being a devotee of a couple of divinities called Chance and Circumstance . 
Prepare , if possible where it is impossible , work straight forward , and keep your eyes open and your tongue oiled . 
Wit and a good exterior there is all life in a nutshell . 
Altogether , though I had been some time gone from my companions , I was still at no great distance , when a miserable accident put a period to the escape . 
Of a sudden the night was divided by a scream . 
This was followed by the sound of something falling , and that again by the report of a musket from the Castle battlements . 
It was strange to hear the alarm spread through the city . 
In the fortress drums were beat and a bell rung backward . 
On all hands the watchmen sprang their rattles . 
'Wha's that ? cried a big voice . 
I had never heard of a collieshangie in my days , but with the racket all about us in the city , I could have no doubt as to the man's meaning . 
'I do not know , sir , really , said I 'but I suppose some of the prisoners will have escaped . 
'Oh , sir , they will be soon taken , I replied 'it has been found in time . 
Good morning , sir ! 'Ye walk late , sir ? he added . 
'Oh , surely not , said I , with a laugh . 
'Earlyish , if you like ! which brought me finally beyond him , highly pleased with my success . 
One person , indeed , inquired where I was off to at that hour . 
I replied vaguely and cheerfully , and as I escaped at one end of this dangerous pass I could see the watchman's lantern entering by the other . 
I was now safe on a dark country highway , out of sight of lights and out of the fear of watchmen . 
And yet I had not gone above a hundred yards before a fellow made an ugly rush at me from the roadside . 
My assailant stood a little in the thick darkness I could see him bob and sidle as though he were feinting at me for an advantageous onfall . 
I presume they were asleep by the shawl about her head and shoulders , one of them should be a woman . 
Soon , by concurrent steps , the day began to break and the fog to subside and roll away . 
It was broad day , but still bitter cold and the sun not up , when I came in view of my destination . 
The cottage was a little quaint place of many rough cast gables and grey roofs . 
one storeyed and dwarfish projections . 
To add to this appearance , it was grotesquely decorated with crockets and gargoyles , ravished from some medieval church . 
I was now within hail of my friends , and not much the better . 
, or some ass of a servant maid who should burst out screaming at sight of me . 
As the day wore on , the sun came very pleasantly out . 
From this I awakened to the characteristic sound of digging , looked down , and saw immediately below me the back view of a gardener in a stable waistcoat . 
It was my first thought to drop from the wall upon the other side . 
I have named the talismans on which I habitually depend , but here was a conjuncture in which both were wholly useless . 
the front lawn and windows of the cottage . 
I held myself ready to make a gesture as soon as she should look , and she looked in every possible direction but the one . 
, half uttered and half swallowed down again a cry of surprise . 
The infernal gardener was erect upon the instant . 
'What's your wull , miss ? said he . 
She had already turned and was gazing in the opposite direction . 
'There's a child among the artichokes , she said . 
'The Plagues of Egyp' ! I'LL see to them ! cried the gardener truculently , and with a hurried waddle disappeared among the evergreens . 
That moment she turned , she came running towards me , her arms stretched out , her face incarnadined for the one moment with heavenly blushes , the next pale as death . 
Saint Yves ! she said . 
'My dear young lady , I said , 'this is the damnedest liberty I know it ! But what else was I to do ? 'You have escaped ? said she . 
'If you call this escape , I replied . 
'But you cannot possibly stop there ! she cried . 
'I know it , said I. 'And where am I to go ? She struck her hands together . 
'I have it ! she exclaimed . 
I was by her side at once . 
Both cast a hasty glance at the blank windows of the cottage and so much as was visible of the garden alleys it seemed there was none to observe us . 
She caught me by the sleeve and ran . 
In the twilight of the place all fixed their eyes on me severely , and seemed to upbraid me with some crying impropriety . 
I could never observe it to be more particular than its neighbours . 
To be sure there was the floor , but nothing could be imagined less inviting . 
At the sound of approaching footsteps , my good humour was restored . 
The key rattled in the lock , and Master Ronald entered , closed the door behind him , and leaned his back to it . 
'I say , you know ! he said , and shook a sullen young head . 
'I know it's a liberty , said I. 'It's infernally awkward my position is infernally embarrassing , said he . 
I could have laughed , but I was not so inhumane . 
'I am in your hands , said I , with a little gesture . 
'You must do with me what you think right . 
'Ah , yes ! he cried 'if I knew ! 'You see , said I , 'it would be different if you had received your commission . 
Observe , I only say ARGUABLE . 
For God's sake , don't think I wish to dictate an opinion . 
These are the sort of nasty little businesses , inseparable from war , which every gentleman must decide for himself . 
If I were in your place 'Ay , what would you do , then ? says he . 
'Upon my word , I do not know , said I. 'Hesitate , as you are doing , I believe . 
'I will tell you , he said . 
'I have a kinsman , and it is what HE would think , that I am thinking . 
It is General Graham of Lynedoch Sir Thomas Graham . 
I scarcely know him , but I believe I admire him more than I do God . 
'I admire him a good deal myself , said I , 'and have good reason to . 
I have fought with him , been beaten , and run away . 
VENI , VICTUS SUM , EVASI . 
He is a brave and ready officer . 
'Now , then , you will understand ! said the boy . 
I was in the Eighth of the Line we lost the eagle of the First Battalion , more betoken , but it cost you dear . 
Only , you see , they had been very close together for the moment , and looked each other in the eyes . 
Soon after the Major was wounded , taken prisoner , and carried into Cadiz . 
One fine day they announced to him the visit of the General , Sir Thomas Graham . 
Well , sir , said the General , taking him by the hand , I think we were face to face upon the field . 
It was the white haired officer ! 'Ah ! cried the boy , his eyes were burning . 
'Well , and here is the point , I continued . 
'Sir Thomas fed the Major from his own table from that day , and served him with six covers . 
'Yes , it is a beautiful a beautiful story , said Ronald . 
'And yet somehow it is not the same is it ? 'I admit it freely , said I. The boy stood awhile brooding . 
'Well , I take my risk of it , he cried . 
'I could almost beg you to do otherwise , I said . 
'I was a brute to come to you , a brute and a coward . 
You are a noble enemy you will make a noble soldier . 
And with rather a happy idea of a compliment for this warlike youth , I stood up straight and gave him the salute . 
He was for a moment confused his face flushed . 
There is my aunt in the road , you see , and he locked me in again with the indignant hens . 
I always smile when I recall that young fellow and yet , if the reader were to smile also , I should feel ashamed . 
If my son shall be only like him when he comes to that age , it will be a brave day for me and not a bad one for his country . 
At the same time I cannot pretend that I was sorry when his sister succeeded in his place . 
She brought me a few crusts of bread and a jug of milk , which she had handsomely laced with whisky after the Scottish manner . 
'I am so sorry , she said 'I dared not bring on anything more . 
We are so small a family , and my aunt keeps such an eye upon the servants . 
I have put some whisky in the milk it is more wholesome so and with eggs you will be able to make something of a meal . 
How many eggs will you be wanting to that milk ? for I must be taking the others to my aunt that is my excuse for being here . 
I should think three or four . 
'My dear Miss Flora , you cannot make an omelette without breaking eggs , said I 'and it is no bagatelle to escape from Edinburgh Castle . 
One of us , I think , was even killed . 
We have money enough , although no food that we can call our own . 
Ah , if Ronald and I kept house , you should not be lying in this shed ! He admires you so much . 
'My dear friend , said I , 'for God's sake do not embarrass me with more alms . 
I pulled out my sheaf of notes and detached the top one it was written for ten pounds , and signed by that very famous individual , Abraham Newlands . 
'Oblige me , as you would like me to oblige your brother if the parts were reversed , and take this note for the expenses . 
I shall need not only food , but clothes . 
'Lay it on the ground , said she . 
'I must not stop my beating . 
'You are not offended ? I exclaimed . 
She answered me by a look that was a reward in itself , and seemed to imply the most heavenly offers for the future . 
There was in it a shadow of reproach , and such warmth of communicative cordiality as left me speechless . 
I watched her instead till her hens' milk was ready . 
'Now , said she , 'taste that . 
I did so , and swore it was nectar . 
She collected her eggs and crouched in front of me to watch me eat . 
There was about this tall young lady at the moment an air of motherliness delicious to behold . 
I am like the English general , and to this day I still wonder at my moderation . 
'What sort of clothes will you be wanting ? said she . 
'The clothes of a gentleman , said I. 'Right or wrong , I think it is the part I am best qualified to play . 
I conceive as rather a theatrical figure , and his make up should be to match . 
'And yet there is a difficulty , said she . 
'If you got coarse clothes the fit would hardly matter . 
'Alas for my poor manners ! said I. 'But my dear friend Flora , these little noticeabilities are just what mankind has to suffer under . 
Yourself , you see , you're very noticeable even when you come in a crowd to visit poor prisoners in the Castle . 
I was afraid I should frighten my good angel visitant away , and without the smallest breath of pause went on to add a few directions as to stuffs and colours . 
She opened big eyes upon me . 
'I do begin to think you are , said she . 
'There it is , then ! said I. 'I have been long enough a figure of fun . 
You do not know what it is to be a walking travesty among foes , I added bitterly . 
'O , but you are too unjust ! she cried . 
'You speak as though any one ever dreamed of laughing at you . 
We were all pained to the heart . 
Even my aunt though sometimes I do think she was not quite in good taste you should have seen her and heard her at home ! She took so much interest . 
Every patch in your clothes made us sorry it should have been a sister's work . 
'That is what I never had a sister , said I. 'But since you say that I did not make you laugh 'O , Mr. St . 
Ives ! never ! she exclaimed . 
It was all too sad . 
To see a gentleman 'In the clothes of a harlequin , and begging ? I suggested . 
'To see a gentleman in distress , and nobly supporting it , she said . 
'I am not that kind of girl . 
'And I am afraid I am that kind of man , said I. 'But do not think of me too harshly for that . 
I talked just now of something to remember by . 
I have many of them myself , of these beautiful reminders , of these keepsakes , that I cannot be parted from until I lose memory and life . 
Many of them are great things , many of them are high virtues charity , mercy , faith . 
But some of them are trivial enough . 
Perhaps this attitude emboldened me to profit by the last seconds of our interview and it certainly rendered her escape the more easy . 
CHAPTER IX THREE IS COMPANY , AND FOUR NONE THE rest of the day I slept in the corner of the hen house upon Flora's shawl . 
I found Ronald bending over me with a lantern . 
It appeared it was past midnight , that I had slept about sixteen hours , and that Flora had returned her poultry to the shed and I had heard her not . 
I could not but wonder if she had stooped to look at me as I slept . 
There I found soap , water , razors offered me diffidently by my beardless host and an outfit of new clothes . 
To be shaved again without depending on the barber of the gaol was a source of a delicious , if a childish joy . 
My hair was sadly too long , but I was none so unwise as to make an attempt on it myself . 
And , indeed , I thought it did not wholly misbecome me as it was , being by nature curly . 
The clothes were about as good as I expected . 
The waistcoat was of toilenet , a pretty piece , the trousers of fine kerseymere , and the coat sat extraordinarily well . 
Altogether , when I beheld this changeling in the glass , I kissed my hand to him . 
'My dear fellow , said I , 'have you no scent ? 'Good God , no ! cried Ronald . 
'What do you want with scent ? 'Capital thing on a campaign , said I. 'But I can do without . 
I was now led , with the same precautions against noise , into the little bow windowed dining room of the cottage . 
Our excellent youth had imported from the city a meat pie , and I was glad to find it flanked with a decanter of really admirable wine of Oporto . 
Opinion in town was very favourable to us our courage was applauded , and many professed regret that our ultimate chance of escape should be so small . 
From this we wandered insensibly into other topics . 
I will only say of myself upon that evening that I surpassed my expectations , and was privileged to delight my hosts . 
I had filled all the glasses . 
'I have a toast to propose , I whispered , 'or rather three , but all so inextricably interwoven that they will not bear dividing . 
I wish first to drink to the health of a brave and therefore a generous enemy . 
He found me disarmed , a fugitive and helpless . 
Like the lion , he disdained so poor a triumph and when he might have vindicated an easy valour , he preferred to make a friend . 
I wish that we should next drink to a fairer and a more tender foe . 
Whatever may have been the cause , at least , I had scarce finished my compliment before we were aware of a thump upon the ceiling overhead . 
It was to be thought some very solid body had descended to the floor from the level of a bed . 
I have never seen consternation painted in more lively colours than on the faces of my hosts . 
It was proposed to smuggle me forth into the garden , or to conceal my form under a horsehair sofa which stood against the wall . 
For the first expedient , as was now plain by the approaching footsteps , there was no longer time from the second I recoiled with indignation . 
'My dear creatures , said I , 'let us die , but do not let us be ridiculous . 
The words were still upon my lips when the door opened and my friend of the gold eyeglass appeared , a memorable figure , on the threshold . 
In one hand she bore a bedroom candlestick in the other , with the steadiness of a dragoon , a horse pistol . 
She was wound about in shawls which did not wholly conceal the candid fabric of her nightdress , and surmounted by a nightcap of portentous architecture . 
'Madam , I am charmed , I am sure , said I. 'The story is a little long and our meeting , however welcome , was for the moment entirely unexpected by myself . 
I am sure but here I found I was quite sure of nothing , and tried again . 
'I have the honour , I began , and found I had the honour to be only exceedingly confused . 
With that , I threw myself outright upon her mercy . 
'Madam , I must be more frank with you , I resumed . 
'I think at least you might have told your aunt , she snorted . 
'Madam , I interposed , 'they were about to do so . 
It is my fault if it be not done already . 
But I made it my prayer that your slumbers might be respected , and this necessary formula of my presentation should be delayed until to morrow in the morning . 
The old lady regarded me with undissembled incredulity , to which I was able to find no better repartee than a profound and I trust graceful reverence . 
'French prisoners are very well in their place , she said , 'but I cannot see that their place is in my private dining room . 
I cannot think upon the spot from which I would so readily be absent . 
At this , to my relief , I thought I could perceive a vestige of a smile to steal upon that iron countenance and to be bitten immediately in . 
'And if it is a fair question , what do they call ye ? she asked . 
'At your service , the Vicomte Anne de St . 
Yves , said I. 'Mosha the Viscount , said she , 'I am afraid you do us plain people a great deal too much honour . 
'My dear lady , said I , 'let us be serious for a moment . 
It is but a young gentleman in extreme distress , hunted upon every side , and asking no more than to escape from his pursuers . 
I know your character , I read it in your face' the heart trembled in my body as I said these daring words . 
'There are unhappy English prisoners in France at this day , perhaps at this hour . 
'What's this pie ? she cried stridently . 
'Is that my port ? she pursued . 
'Hough ! Will somebody give me a glass of my port wine ? I made haste to serve her . 
She looked at me over the rim with an extraordinary expression . 
'I hope ye liked it ? said she . 
'It is even a magnificent wine , said I. 'Aweel , it was my father laid it down , said she . 
'There were few knew more about port wine than my father , God rest him ! She settled herself in a chair with an alarming air of resolution . 
'And so there is some particular direction that you wish to go in ? said she . 
'O , said I , following her example , 'I am by no means such a vagrant as you suppose . 
I have good friends , if I could get to them , for which all I want is to be once clear of Scotland and I have money for the road . 
And I produced my bundle . 
'English bank notes ? she said . 
'That's not very handy for Scotland . 
It's been some fool of an Englishman that's given you these , I'm thinking . 
How much is it ? 'I declare to heaven I never thought to count ! I exclaimed . 
'But that is soon remedied . 
And I counted out ten notes of ten pound each , all in the name of Abraham Newlands , and five bills of country bankers for as many guineas . 
'One hundred and twenty six pound five , cried the old lady . 
'And you carry such a sum about you , and have not so much as counted it ! If you are not a thief , you must allow you are very thief like . 
'And yet , madam , the money is legitimately mine , said I. She took one of the bills and held it up . 
'Is there any probability , now , that this could be traced ? she asked . 
'None , I should suppose and if it were , it would be no matter , said I. 'With your usual penetration , you guessed right . 
An Englishman brought it me . 
It reached me , through the hands of his English solicitor , from my great uncle , the Comte de Keroual de Saint Yves , I believe the richest EMIGRE in London . 
'I can do no more than take your word for it , said she . 
'And I trust , madam , not less , said I. 'Well , said she , 'at this rate the matter may be feasible . 
I will cash one of these five guinea bills , less the exchange , and give you silver and Scots notes to bear you as far as the border . 
Beyond that , Mosha the Viscount , you will have to depend upon yourself . 
I could not but express a civil hesitation as to whether the amount would suffice , in my case , for so long a journey . 
'Ay , said she , 'but you havenae heard me out . 
'For Heaven's sake do not suppose me to be so effeminate a character ! I cried . 
'An old soldier of Napoleon is certainly beyond suspicion . 
I dare say you have never even heard tell of the drove roads or the drovers and I am certainly not going to sit up all night to explain it to you . 
Suffice it , that it is me who is arranging this affair the more shame to me ! and that is the way ye have to go . 
Ronald was nothing loath to escape from his aunt's neighbourhood , and left the room and the cottage with a silent expedition that was more like flight than mere obedience . 
Meanwhile the old lady turned to her niece . 
'And I would like to know what we are to do with him the night ! she cried . 
'Ronald and I meant to put him in the hen house , said the encrimsoned Flora . 
'And I can tell you he is to go to no such a place , replied the aunt . 
'Hen house , indeed ! If a guest he is to be , he shall sleep in no mortal hen house . 
Your room is the most fit , I think , if he will consent to occupy it on so great a suddenty . 
And as for you , Flora , you shall sleep with me . 
I could not help admiring the prudence and tact of this old dowager , and of course it was not for me to make objections . 
But , alas ! it was another story with my love affair . 
that was insolent and underhand , and could not but minister to the worst suspicions . 
And the old lady had taken it well . 
Her generosity was no more to be called in question than her courage , and I was afraid that her intelligence would be found to match . 
Certainly , Miss Flora had to support some shrewd looks , and certainly she had been troubled . 
To have said so much and yet to say no more , to go out into the world upon so half hearted a parting , was more than I could accept . 
It is my belief that the benevolent fiend sat up all night to baulk me . 
She took the head of the table , poured out the tea , and entertained me as I ate with a great deal of good sense and a conspicuous lack of charm . 
Already she was in communication with my destined fellow travellers and the device on which she had struck appeared entirely suitable . 
'I have given a very good account of you , said she , 'which I hope you may justify . 
'It is the name of a process in Scots Law , and need alarm no honest man , said she . 
'But you are a very idle minded young gentleman you must still have your joke , I see I only hope you will have no cause to regret it . 
'Well , well , she said , 'here comes your devoted friend the drover . 
The lady rose from table , and I had no choice but to follow her example . 
'Ronald , she said , 'wasn't that Sim that went by the wall ? I snatched my advantage . 
Right at her back there was pen , ink , and paper laid out . 
'It's time , she began and then , as she observed my occupation , 'Umph ! she broke off . 
'Ye have something to write ? she demanded . 
'Some notes , madam , said I , bowing with alacrity . 
I am a lady I have been your hostess , with however little will and I desire that this random acquaintance of yours with my family will cease and determine . 
I believe I must have coloured . 
'Madam , said I , 'the notes are of no importance and your least pleasure ought certainly to be my law . 
You have felt , and you have been pleased to express , a doubt of me . 
Which you may be sure I did thoroughly . 
'There's a good lad ! said the dragon , and immediately led the way to the front lawn . 
Ronald seemed ashamed to so much as catch my eye in the presence of his aunt , and was the picture of embarrassment . 
Ronald and I followed in equal silence . 
There was a door in that same high wall on the top of which I had sat perched no longer gone than yesterday morning . 
on a dry stone dyke . 
Him the old lady immediately addressed . 
'Sim , said she , 'this is the young gentleman . 
Sim replied with an inarticulate grumble of sound , and a movement of one arm and his head , which did duty for a salutation . 
Ives , said the old lady , 'it's high time for you to be taking the road . 
But first of all let me give the change of your five guinea bill . 
Here are four pounds of it in British Linen notes , and the balance in small silver , less sixpence . 
Some charge a shilling , I believe , but I have given you the benefit of the doubt . 
See and guide it with all the sense that you possess . 
'And here , Mr. St . 
Ives , said Flora , speaking for the first time , 'is a plaid which you will find quite necessary on so rough a journey . 
I hope you will take it from the hands of a Scotch friend , she added , and her voice trembled . 
'Genuine holly I cut it myself , said Ronald , and gave me as good a cudgel as a man could wish for in a row . 
The formality of these gifts , and the waiting figure of the driver , told me loudly that I must be gone . 
I dropped on one knee and bade farewell to the aunt , kissing her hand . 
'Farewell ! and 'Farewell ! I said . 
'I shall never forget my friends . 
Keep me sometimes in memory . 
Farewell ! With that I turned my back and began to walk away and had scarce done so , when I heard the door in the high wall close behind me . 
Of course this was the aunt's doing and of course , if I know anything of human character , she would not let me go without some tart expressions . 
Each looked at the other I with natural curiosity , he with a great appearance of distaste . 
I have heard since that his heart was entirely set against me he had seen me kneel to the ladies , and diagnosed me for a 'gesterin' eediot . 
'So , ye're for England , are ye ? said he . 
'Weel , there's waur places , I believe , was his reply and he relapsed into a silence which was not broken during a quarter of an hour of steady walking . 
This interval brought us to the foot of a bare green valley , which wound upwards and backwards among the hills . 
'Here's a mannie that's to gang through with us , said Sim . 
'It was the auld wife , Gilchrist , wanted it . 
'Aweel , aweel , said the other and presently , remembering his manners , and looking on me with a solemn grin , 'A fine day ! says he . 
I agreed with him , and asked him how he did . 
'Brawly , was the reply and without further civilities , the pair proceeded to get the cattle under way . 
This , as well as almost all the herding , was the work of a pair of comely and intelligent dogs , directed by Sim or Candlish in little more than monosyllables . 
Presently we were ascending the side of the mountain by a rude green track , whose presence I had not hitherto observed . 
A continual sound of munching and the crying of a great quantity of moor birds accompanied our progress , which the deliberate pace and perennial appetite of the cattle rendered wearisomely slow . 
In the midst my two conductors marched in a contented silence that I could not but admire . 
The more I looked at them , the more I was impressed by their absurd resemblance to each other . 
In a back view they might be described as indistinguishable and even from the front they were much alike . 
An incredible coincidence of humours augmented the impression . 
Thrice and four times I attempted to pave the way for some exchange of thought , sentiment , or at the least of it human words . 
An AY or an NHM was the sole return , and the topic died on the hill side without echo . 
But even this sally failed to reach , or at least failed to soften , my companions . 
Upon this point of vantage Sim came to a halt , took off his hat , and mopped his brow . 
'Weel , he said , 'here we're at the top o' Howden . 
'The top o' Howden , sure eneuch , said Candlish . 
Ivey , are ye dry ? said the first . 
'Now , really , said I , 'is not this Satan reproving sin ? 'What ails ye , man ? said he . 
'I'm offerin' ye a dram . 
'Oh , if it be anything to drink , said I , 'I am as dry as my neighbours . 
Whereupon Sim produced from the corner of his plaid a black bottle , and we all drank and pledged each other . 
I found these gentlemen followed upon such occasions an invariable etiquette , which you may be certain I made haste to imitate . 
This little ceremony , which was the nearest thing to manners I could perceive in either of my companions , was repeated at becoming intervals , generally after an ascent . 
to be called 'shearer's bannock . 
And that may be said to have concluded our whole active intercourse for the first day . 
I had the more occasion to remark the extraordinarily desolate nature of that country , through which the drove road continued , hour after hour and even day after day , to wind . 
, it gave me a singular view of that poor , barren , and yet illustrious country through which I travelled . 
Still more , perhaps , did it commend the wisdom of Miss Gilchrist in sending me with these uncouth companions and by this unfrequented path . 
Nay , more , I am of opinion that I was still more favoured by fortune , and have actually met and spoken with that inimitable author . 
Our encounter was of a tall , stoutish , elderly gentleman , a little grizzled , and of a rugged but cheerful and engaging countenance . 
'Surely that must be an AMATEUR DROVER ye have gotten there ? the gentleman seems to have asked . 
Sim replied , I was a young gentleman that had a reason of his own to travel privately . 
'Well , well , ye must tell me nothing of that . 
I am in the law , you know , and TACE is the Latin for a candle , answered the gentleman . 
'But I hope it's nothing bad . 
Sim told him it was no more than debt . 
'I envy you , said he . 
'I have jogged many miles of it myself when I was younger . 
My youth lies buried about here under every heather bush , like the soul of the licentiate Lucius . 
But you should have a guide . 
The pleasure of this country is much in the legends , which grow as plentiful as blackberries . 
And directing my attention to a little fragment of a broken wall no greater than a tombstone , he told me for an example a story of its earlier inhabitants . 
But the discovery came too late , and the great man had already succumbed under the load of his honours and misfortunes . 
Presently , after giving us a cigar apiece , Scott bade us farewell and disappeared with his daughter over the hills . 
And when I applied to Sim for information , his answer of 'The Shirra , man ! A'body kens the Shirra ! told me , unfortunately , nothing . 
A more considerable adventure falls to be related . 
We were now near the border . 
We had travelled for long upon the track beaten and browsed by a million herds , our predecessors , and had seen no vestige of that traffic which had created it . 
The liveliest excitement was at once exhibited by both my comrades . 
They climbed hillocks , they studied the approaching drove from under their hand , they consulted each other with an appearance of alarm that seemed to me extraordinary . 
I had learned by this time that their stand oft manners implied , at least , no active enmity and I made bold to ask them what was wrong . 
'Bad yins , was Sim's emphatic answer . 
All day the dogs were kept unsparingly on the alert , and the drove pushed forward at a very unusual and seemingly unwelcome speed . 
All day Sim and Candlish , with a more than ordinary expenditure both of snuff and of words , continued to debate the position . 
It seems that they had recognised two of our neighbours on the road one Faa , and another by the name of Gillies . 
Whether there was an old feud between them still unsettled I could never learn but Sim and Candlish were prepared for every degree of fraud or violence at their hands . 
Candlish repeatedly congratulated himself on having left 'the watch at home with the mistress' and Sim perpetually brandished his cudgel , and cursed his ill fortune that it should be sprung . 
'I willna care a damn to gie the daashed scoon'rel a fair clout wi' it , he said . 
'The daashed thing micht come sindry in ma hand . 
'Well , gentlemen , said I , 'suppose they do come on , I think we can give a very good account of them . 
And I made my piece of holly , Ronald's gift , the value of which I now appreciated , sing about my head . 
'Ay , man ? Are ye stench ? inquired Sim , with a gleam of approval in his wooden countenance . 
We had made our meal and lain down , but were not yet asleep , when a growl from one of the collies set us on the alert . 
All three sat up , and on a second impulse all lay down again , but now with our cudgels ready . 
A man must be an alien and an outlaw , an old soldier and a young man in the bargain , to take adventure easily . 
How the battle sped in other quarters I am in no position to describe . 
It struck him in the throat , and he went down like a ninepin and moved no more . 
It seemed this was the signal for the engagement to be discontinued . 
There was no doubt , at least , that I was supposed to have pushed the affair too seriously . 
'I'm thinking Faa's unco bad , said the one . 
'Ay , said the other , 'he lookit dooms gash . 
'He did that , said the first . 
And their weary silence fell upon them again . 
Presently Sim turned to me . 
'Ye're unco ready with the stick , said he . 
'Weel , I wouldnae wonder , replied Sim . 
'And what is likely to happen ? I inquired . 
'Aweel , said Sim , snuffing profoundly , 'if I were to offer an opeenion , it would not be conscientious . 
For the plain fac' is , Mr. St . 
Ivy , that I div not ken . 
But a corp we have none of us ever had to deal with , and I could set nae leemit to what Gillies micht consider proper in the affair . 
Forbye that , he would be in raither a hobble himsel' , if he was to gang hame wantin' Faa . 
Folk are awfu' throng with their questions , and parteecularly when they're no wantit . 
'That's a fac' , said Candlish . 
I considered this prospect ruefully and then making the best of it , 'Upon all which accounts , said I , 'the best will be to get across the border and there separate . 
If you are troubled , you can very truly put the blame upon your late companion and if I am pursued , I must just try to keep out of the way . 
Our night march was accordingly pursued with unremitting diligence . 
The stars paled , the east whitened , and we were still , both dogs and men , toiling after the wearied cattle . 
Again and again Sim and Candlish lamented the necessity it was 'fair ruin on the bestial , they declared but the thought of a judge and a scaffold hunted them ever forward . 
I myself was not so much to be pitied . 
The pair were old and close companions , co existing in these endless moors in a brotherhood of silence such as I have heard attributed to the trappers of the west . 
The two dogs appeared to be entirely included in this family compact , and I remarked that their exploits and traits of character were constantly and minutely observed by the two masters . 
Dog stories particularly abounded with them and not only the dogs of the present but those of the past contributed their quota . 
'But that was naething , Sim would begin 'there was a herd in Manar , they ca'd him Tweedie ye'll mind Tweedie , Can'lish ? 'Fine , that ! said Candlish . 
It took place about four of the afternoon on a bare hillside from which I could see the ribbon of the great north road , henceforth to be my conductor . 
I asked what was to pay . 
'What in the name of folly is this ? I exclaimed . 
'Indented ? I repeated 'what does the man mean ? 'Mr . 
Ivy , said Sim , 'this is a maitter entirely between Candlish and me and the auld wife , Gilchrist . 
You had naething to say to it weel , ye can have naething to do with it , then . 
'My good man , said I , 'I can allow myself to be placed in no such ridiculous position . 
Mrs. Gilchrist is nothing to me , and I refuse to be her debtor . 
'I dinna exac'ly see what way ye're gaun to help it , observed my drover . 
'By paying you here and now , said I. 'There's aye twa to a bargain , Mr. St . 
'You mean that you will not take it ? said I. 'There or thereabout , said he . 
'Forbye , that it would set ye a heap better to keep your siller for them you awe it to . 
Ye're young , Mr. St . 
Ivy , and thoughtless but it's my belief that , wi' care and circumspection , ye may yet do credit to yoursel' . 
But just you bear this in mind that him that AWES siller should never GIE siller . 
Well , what was there to say ? I accepted his rebuke , and bidding the pair farewell , set off alone upon my southward way . 
CHAPTER XI THE GREAT NORTH ROAD IT chanced that as I went down the hill these last words of my friend the drover echoed not unfruitfully in my head . 
Some strangeness in the accent they had doubtless thus explained . 
And it occurred to me , that if I could pass in Scotland for an Englishman , I might be able to reverse the process and pass in England for a Scot . 
At the same time , I was afraid my name of St . 
My plaid I continued to wear from sentiment . 
It was warm , useful to sleep in if I were again benighted , and I had discovered it to be not unbecoming for a man of gallant carriage . 
Thus equipped , I supported my character of the light hearted pedestrian not amiss . 
Surprise was indeed expressed that I should have selected such a season of the year but I pleaded some delays of business , and smilingly claimed to be an eccentric . 
to talk much and say little . 
'What ! they would have said , 'that young ass to be concealing anything ! Why , he has deafened me with an aunt of his until my head aches . 
He only wants you should give him a line , and he would tell you his whole descent from Adam downward , and his whole private fortune to the last shilling . 
'You are one of those d d prudent fellows that I could never abide with , said I. 'You are the kind of man that has a long head . 
That's all the world , my dear sir the long heads and the short horns ! Now , I am a short horn . 
'I doubt , says he , 'that you will not go very far without getting sheared . 
I offered to bet with him on that , and he made off , shaking his head . 
But my particular delight was to enlarge on politics and the war . 
None damned the French like me none was more bitter against the Americans . 
I observed patriotism to burn much lower by daylight . 
Let no one blame me for insensibility to the reverses of France ! God knows how my heart raged . 
It is possible that I sometimes allowed this impish humour to carry me further than good taste approves and I was certainly punished for it once . 
This was in the episcopal city of Durham . 
We sat down , a considerable company , to dinner , most of us fine old vatted English tories of that class which is often so enthusiastic as to be inarticulate . 
of certain cannibal orgies in Galicia , in which no less a person than General Caffarelli had taken a part . 
I always disliked that commander , who once ordered me under arrest for insubordination and it is possible that a spice of vengeance added to the rigour of my picture . 
I have forgotten the details no doubt they were high coloured . 
No doubt I rejoiced to fool these jolter heads and no doubt the sense of security that I drank from their dull , gasping faces encouraged me to proceed extremely far . 
And for my sins , there was one silent little man at table who took my story at the true value . 
It was from no sense of humour , to which he was quite dead . 
It was from no particular intelligence , for he had not any . 
The bond of sympathy , of all things in the world , had rendered him clairvoyant . 
Dinner was no sooner done than I strolled forth into the streets with some design of viewing the cathedral and the little man was silently at my heels . 
'I beg your pardon , sir but that story of yours was particularly rich . 
He he ! Particularly racy , said he . 
Here is the Blue Bell , a very comfortable place . 
They draw good ale , sir . 
Blaming myself , even as I did so , for the indiscretion , I embraced his proposal , and we were soon face to face over a tankard of mulled ale . 
He lowered his voice to the least attenuation of a whisper . 
'Here , sir , said he , 'is to the Great Man . 
I think you take me ? No ? He leaned forward till our noses touched . 
'Here is to the Emperor ! said he . 
I was extremely embarrassed , and , in spite of the creature's innocent appearance , more than half alarmed . 
I thought him too ingenious , and , indeed , too daring for a spy . 
Yet if he were honest he must be a man of extraordinary indiscretion , and therefore very unfit to be encouraged by an escaped prisoner . 
I took a half course , accordingly accepted his toast in silence , and drank it without enthusiasm . 
He proceeded to abound in the praises of Napoleon , such as I had never heard in France , or at least only on the lips of officials paid to offer them . 
'And this Caffarelli , now , he pursued 'he is a splendid fellow , too , is he not ? I have not heard vastly much of him myself . 
No details , sir no details ! We labour under huge difficulties here as to unbiassed information . 
'I believe I have heard the same complaint in other countries , I could not help remarking . 
'But as to Caffarelli , he is neither lame nor blind , he has two legs and a nose in the middle of his face . 
And I care as much about him as you care for the dead body of Mr. Perceval ! He studied me with glowing eyes . 
'You cannot deceive me ! he cried . 
'You have served under him . 
You are a Frenchman ! I hold by the hand , at last , one of that noble race , the pioneers of the glorious principles of liberty and brotherhood . 
Hush ! No , it is all right . 
I thought there had been somebody at the door . 
In this wretched , enslaved country we dare not even call our souls our own . 
The spy and the hangman , sir the spy and the hangman ! And yet there is a candle burning , too . 
The good leaven is working , sir working underneath . 
Even in this town there are a few brave spirits , who meet every Wednesday . 
You must stay over a day or so , and join us . 
We do not use this house . 
Another , and a quieter . 
They draw fine ale , however fair , mild ale . 
You will find yourself among friends , among brothers . 
You will hear some very daring sentiments expressed ! he cried , expanding his small chest . 
'Monarchy , Christianity all the trappings of a bloated past the Free Confraternity of Durham and Tyneside deride . 
'You seem to forget , sir , that my Emperor has re established Christianity , I observed . 
'Ah , sir , but that was policy ! he exclaimed . 
'You do not understand Napoleon . 
I have followed his whole career . 
I can explain his policy from first to last . 
It was cold , starry , and clear , and the road dry , with a touch of frost . 
It was against my principle , which was to frequent only the dearest inns and the misadventure that befell me was sufficient to make me more particular in the future . 
A large company was assembled in the parlour , which was heavy with clouds of tobacco smoke , and brightly lighted up by a roaring fire of coal . 
'Beg thy pardon , sir , said he 'but that there chair belongs to a British soldier . 
A chorus of voices enforced and explained . 
It was one of Lord Wellington's heroes . 
He had been wounded under Rowland Hill . 
He was Colbourne's right hand man . 
In short , this favoured individual appeared to have served with every separate corps , and under every individual general in the Peninsula . 
The devil was in it if a soldier had not a right to the best in England . 
And with that sentiment , which was loudly applauded , I found a corner of a bench , and awaited , with some hopes of entertainment , the return of the hero . 
He proved , of course , to be a private soldier . 
I say of course , because no officer could possibly enjoy such heights of popularity . 
He had been wounded before San Sebastian , and still wore his arm in a sling . 
What was a great deal worse for him , every member of the company had been plying him with drink . 
Two minutes afterwards I was again posting in the dark along the highway to explain which sudden movement of retreat I must trouble the reader with a reminiscence of my services . 
I lay one night with the out pickets in Castile . 
I repeated it , and we both crept together in the dry bed of a stream , which made the demarcation of the armies . 
It was wine he wanted , of which we had a good provision , and the English had quite run out . 
He gave me the money , and I , as was the custom , left him my firelock in pledge , and set off for the canteen . 
But my Englishman was either a very honest fellow , or else extremely thirsty , and at last contrived to advertise me of his new position . 
Ives might have come to an untimely end . 
It was but a plain , dingy old fellow of fifty or sixty , his throat cut , his shirt turned over as though to show the wound . 
Blue trousers and brown socks completed his attire , if we can talk so of the dead . 
He had a horrid look of a waxwork . 
In the tossing of the lights he seemed to make faces and mouths at us , to frown , and to be at times upon the point of speech . 
The cart was backed to the margin , the body slung off the platform and dumped into the grave with an irreverent roughness . 
A sharpened stake had hitherto served it for a pillow . 
drove it home through the bosom of the corpse . 
The hole was filled with quicklime , and the bystanders , as if relieved of some oppression , broke at once into a sound of whispered speech . 
My shirt stuck to me , my heart had almost ceased beating , and I found my tongue with difficulty . 
'I am a traveller , sir , said I , 'and a total stranger in this part of the country . 
I had lost my way when I saw your torches , and came by chance on this this incredible scene . 
Who was the man ? 'A suicide , said he . 
'Ay , he was a bad one , was Johnnie Green . 
It appeared this was a wretch who had committed many barbarous murders , and being at last upon the point of discovery fell of his own hand . 
Faa was in hospital , grievously sick , and warrants were out for the arrest of Sim and Candlish . 
These two men had shown themselves very loyal to me . 
This trouble emerging , the least I could do was to be guided by a similar loyalty to them . 
So my mind was very lightly made up to what proved a mighty serious matter . 
Candlish and Sim were all very well in their way , and I do sincerely trust I should have been at some pains to help them , had there been nothing else . 
But in truth my heart and my eyes were set on quite another matter , and I received the news of their tribulation almost with joy . 
'Yes , said I to the chambermaid , 'here is news of my lady love indeed , and very good news too . 
All that day , in the teeth of a keen winter wind , I hugged myself in my plaid , and it was as though her arms were flung around me . 
who made a trade of forwarding the escape of French prisoners . 
favoured me as far as to throw me in the man's way , I should owe the lady a candle if not , I could very readily console myself . 
Anything is interesting to a pedestrian that can help him to forget the miseries of a day of rain and I bettered my pace and gradually overtook the vehicle . 
The nearer I came , the more it puzzled me . 
It was much such a cart as I am told the calico printers use , mounted on two wheels , and furnished with a seat in front for the driver . 
The interior closed with a door , and was of a bigness to contain a good load of calico , or four or five persons . 
Wheels and horses were splashed with many different colours of mud , as though they had come far and across a considerable diversity of country . 
The driver continually and vainly plied his whip . 
I looked for the name of the proprietor on the shaft , and started outright . 
Presently he desisted , and put back his whip in the holster with the air of a man vanquished . 
'So you would run away from me ? said I. 'Come , come , that's not English . 
'Beg pardon , master no offence meant , he said , touching his hat . 
'And none taken ! cried I. 'All I desire is a little gaiety by the way . 
I understood him to say he didn't 'take with gaiety . 
Are you going home ? 'Yes , I'm a goin' home , I am , he said . 
With a sudden snatch , he carried the cart two yards into the roadway . 
The horses plunged and came to a stop . 
'No , you don't ! he said , menacing me with the whip . 
'None o' that with me . 
'None of what ? said I. 'I asked you for a lift , but I have no idea of taking one by force . 
'Well , I've got to take care of the cart and 'orses , I have , says he . 
'I don't take up with no runagate vagabones , you see , else . 
'I ought to thank you for your touching confidence , said I , approaching carelessly nearer as I spoke . 
'But I admit the road is solitary hereabouts , and no doubt an accident soon happens . 
Little fear of anything of the kind with you ! I like you for it , like your prudence , like that pastoral shyness of disposition . 
He had been timorous before but at this , he seemed to lose the power of speech a moment , and stared at me in a perfect enthusiasm of fear . 
'Why not ? I continued . 
I should be safe in there if I were the monster Williams himself . 
The great thing is to have me under lock and key . 
For it does lock it is locked now , said I , trying the door . 
'A PROPOS , what have you for a cargo ? It must be precious . 
He found not a word to answer . 
Rat tat tat , I went upon the door like a well drilled footman . 
'Any one at home ? I said , and stooped to listen . 
At the first sound of the sneeze , I had started back like a man shot . 
The next moment , a great light broke on my mind , and I understood . 
Here was the secret of Fenn's trade this was how he forwarded the escape of prisoners , hawking them by night about the country in his covered cart . 
There had been Frenchmen close to me he who had just sneezed was my countryman , my comrade , perhaps already my friend ! I took to my heels in pursuit . 
'Hold hard ! I shouted . 
But a minute since , and it had been trundling along like a lame cow and now it was off as though drawn by Apollo's coursers . 
was become a chief point with me . 
A hundred yards farther on the cart whipped out of the high road into a lane embowered with leafless trees , and became lost to view . 
When I saw it next , the driver had increased his advantage considerably , but all danger was at an end , and the horses had again declined into a hobbling walk . 
Persuaded that they could not escape me , I took my time , and recovered my breath as I followed them . 
A thicket of trees , mostly evergreen , fenced the place round and secluded it from the eyes of prying neighbours . 
The pair continued to speak as I came up the approach , but received me at last in a sort of goggling silence . 
I had my hat in my hand . 
'And who may you be ? he asked . 
'I shall tell you afterwards , said I. 'Suffice it , in the meantime , that I come on business . 
He seemed to digest my answer laboriously , his mouth gaping , his little eyes never straying from my face . 
Indeed , the rain was now grown to be a deluge the gutters of the house roared the air was filled with the continuous , strident crash . 
The stolidity of his face , on which the rain streamed , was far from reassuring me . 
'Come in , come in , sir , he said . 
'I beg your pardon , sir the lock goes a trifle hard . 
My mind , under these new impressions , worked with unusual vivacity . 
I was here shut off with Fenn and his hireling in a deserted house , a neglected garden , and a wood of evergreens the most eligible theatre for a deed of darkness . 
There came to me a vision of two flagstones raised in the hall floor , and the driver putting in the rainy afternoon over my grave , and the prospect displeased me extremely . 
The surprise of the onslaught and the huge weight of my assailant gave him the advantage . 
He had a pistol in his right hand of a portentous size , which it took me all my strength to keep deflected . 
With his left arm he strained me to his bosom , so that I thought I must be crushed or stifled . 
His mouth was open , his face crimson , and he panted aloud with hard animal sounds . 
The affair was as brief as it was hot and sudden . 
The potations which had swelled and bloated his carcase had already weakened the springs of energy . 
'Spare me ! he gasped . 
I had not only been abominably frightened I was shocked besides my delicacy was in arms , like a lady to whom violence should have been offered by a similar monster . 
I plucked myself from his horrid contact , I snatched the pistol even discharged , it was a formidable weapon and menaced him with the butt . 
'Spare you ! I cried , 'you beast ! His voice died in his fat inwards , but his lips still vehemently framed the same words of supplication . 
My anger began to pass off , but not all my repugnance the picture he made revolted me , and I was impatient to be spared the further view of it . 
'Here , said I , 'stop this performance it sickens me . 
I am not going to kill you , do you hear ? I have need of you . 
A look of relief , that I could almost have called beautiful , dawned on his countenance . 
'Anything anything you wish , said he . 
Anything is a big word , and his use of it brought me for a moment to a stand . 
'Why , what do you mean ? I asked . 
'Do you mean that you will blow the gaff on the whole business ? He answered me Yes with eager asseverations . 
'I know Monsieur de Saint Yves is in it it was through his papers we traced you , I said . 
'Do you consent to make a clean breast of the others ? 'I do I will ! he cried . 
'The 'ole crew of 'em there's good names among 'em . 
'So that all shall hang except yourself ? You damned villain ! I broke out . 
'Understand at once that I am no spy or thief taker . 
I am a kinsman of Monsieur de St . 
Yves here in his interest . 
Upon my word , you have put your foot in it prettily , Mr. Burchell Fenn ! Come , stand up don't grovel there . 
Stand up , you lump of iniquity ! He scrambled to his feet . 
He was utterly unmanned , or it might have gone hard with me yet and I considered him hesitating , as , indeed , there was cause . 
The man was a double dyed traitor he had tried to murder me , and I had first baffled his endeavours and then exposed and insulted him . 
If I was to see anything of my countrymen , it was clear I had first of all to make my peace with Mr. Fenn and that was no easy matter . 
Take back your pistol , which smells very ill put it in your pocket or wherever you had it concealed . 
There ! Now let us meet for the first time . 
Give you good morning , Mr. Fenn ! I hope you do very well . 
I come on the recommendation of my kinsman , the Vicomte de St . 
'Do you mean it ? he cried . 
There is nothing against you in the little scrimmage , unless that your courage is greater than your strength . 
You are not so young as you once were , that is all . 
'And I beg of you , sir , don't betray me to the Vis count , he pleaded . 
'Certainly , said I. 'That is quite my own opinion . 
'The way I came to be anxious about the Vis count , he continued , 'is that I believe he might be induced to form an 'asty judgment . 
And the business , in a pecuniary point of view , is all that I could ask only trying , sir very trying . 
It's making an old man of me before my time . 
You might have observed yourself , sir , that I 'aven't got the knees I once 'ad . 
The knees and the breathing , there's where it takes me . 
But I'm very sure , sir , I address a gentleman as would be the last to make trouble between friends . 
'I should have known you anywheres . 
May I offer you a pot of 'ome brewed ale , sir ? By your leave ! This way , if you please . 
He must have heard the explosion of the pistol . 
He could not choose but hear it the thing was shaped like a little blunderbuss , charged to the mouth , and made a report like a piece of field artillery . 
The rascal had expected to see Fenn come forth alone he was waiting to be called on for that part of sexton , which I had already allotted to him in fancy . 
I took a fancy to the man , he was so vast a humbug . 
I began to see a kind of beauty in him , his APLOMB was so majestic . 
I never knew a rogue to cut so fat his villainy was ample , like his belly , and I could scarce find it in my heart to hold him responsible for either . 
There were two of them , it appeared , and my heart beat as I approached the door . 
The specimen of Perfidious Albion whom I had just been studying gave me the stronger zest for my fellow countrymen . 
I could have embraced them I could have wept on their necks . 
And all the time I was going to a disappointment . 
It was in a spacious and low room , with an outlook on the court , that I found them bestowed . 
In the good days of that house the apartment had probably served as a library , for there were traces of shelves along the wainscot . 
An old , frail , white haired officer sat in one of the chairs , which he had drawn close to this apology for a fire . 
Fenn showed me in with the brief form of introduction 'Gentlemen all , this here's another fare ! and was gone again at once . 
The old man gave me but the one glance out of lack lustre eyes and even as he looked a shiver took him as sharp as a hiccough . 
But the other , who represented to admiration the picture of a Beau in a Catarrh , stared at me arrogantly . 
'And who are you , sir ? he asked . 
I made the military salute to my superiors . 
'Champdivers , private , Eighth of the Line , said I. 'Pretty business ! said he . 
It seemed to annoy him particularly that I should have joined their party . 
Even to be in agreement with him , or to seem to be so , was more than I could make out to endure . 
'You could scarce be expected to stomach them , said I civilly , 'after having just digested your parole . 
'I have not tried the dish myself , I took the opportunity to add . 
'It is said to be unpalatable . 
Did monsieur find it so ? With surprising vivacity the Colonel woke from his lethargy . 
He was between us ere another word could pass . 
'Shame , gentlemen ! he said . 
MONSIEUR LE COMMANDANT , you have been gravely offended . 
I make it my request , I make it my prayer if need be , I give you my orders that the matter shall stand by until we come safe to France . 
Then , if you please , I will serve you in any capacity . 
And for you , young man , you have shown all the cruelty and carelessness of youth . 
This gentleman is your superior he is no longer young' at which word you are to conceive the Major's face . 
'It is admitted he has broken his parole . 
I know not his reason , and no more do you . 
To break parole may be a subject for pity and not derision . 
I have broken mine I , a colonel of the Empire . 
I am going to see my daughter at last , and it is my only concern lest I should have delayed too long . 
She is ill , and very ill , at death's door . 
Nothing is left me but my daughter , my Emperor , and my honour and I give my honour , blame me for it who dare ! At this my heart smote me . 
As long as I shall be with you , you shall not have cause to complain of me again . 
I pray God you will find your daughter alive and restored . 
'That is past praying for , said the Colonel and immediately the brief fire died out of him , and , returning to the hearth , he relapsed into his former abstraction . 
But I was not so easy to compose . 
, and abounded in palinodes and apologies . 
I beg you to believe that I regret from my soul the use of these ungenerous expressions . 
Is there no way in this damned house to attract attention ? Where is this fellow , Fenn ? I ran to one of the windows and threw it open . 
'Oh , sir ! says he , 'keep away from those there windows . 
A body might see you from the back lane . 
'It is registered , said I. 'Henceforward I will be a mouse for precaution and a ghost for invisibility . 
The shine of it , in that dark , rainy day , seemed to reanimate the Colonel like a blink of sun . 
I poured out some of the brandy . 
'Colonel , said I , 'I am a young man and a private soldier . 
Have the humanity to pass these slips over , and honour me so far as to accept this glass . 
'My lad , says he , waking up and blinking at me with an air of suspicion , 'are you sure you can afford it ? I assured him I could . 
'I thank you , then I am very cold . 
He took the glass out , and a little colour came in his face . 
'I thank you again , said he . 
'It goes to the heart . 
On each of these occasions he showed a gratitude and kind courtesy that endeared him to me beyond expression . 
'Champdivers , my lad , your health ! he would say . 
Dinner was hardly over before he succumbed to a lethargic sleep lying on one of the mattresses with his limbs relaxed , and his breath seemingly suspended the very image of dissolution . 
This left the Major and myself alone at the table . 
You must not suppose our TETE A TETE was long , but it was a lively period while it lasted . 
For a party of fugitives , condemned to the most rigorous discretion , there was never seen so noisy a carnival and through it all the Colonel continued to sleep like a child . 
With the wrong headedness of all such sots , he would not be persuaded to lie down upon one of the mattresses until I had stretched myself upon another . 
the excessive tedium of the afternoon . 
I remembered that I was in the hands of Fenn , who could not be more false though he might be more vindictive than I fancied him . 
But the Colonel stood in the path . 
I could not turn my back on his distress could not leave him alone with the selfish trooper who snored on the next mattress . 
They stayed long in the kitchen with Burchell , drinking , shouting , singing , and keeping it up and the sound of their merry minstrelsy kept me a kind of company . 
The night fell , and the shine of the fire brightened and blinked on the panelled wall . 
Our illuminated windows must have been visible not only from the back lane of which Fenn had spoken , but from the court where the farmers' gig awaited them . 
In the far end of the firelit room lay my companions , the one silent , the other clamorously noisy , the images of death and drunkenness . 
At last , about six at night , I should fancy , the noisy minstrels appeared in the court , headed by Fenn with a lantern , and knocking together as they came . 
There , through the open doors of a coach house , the shock headed lad was already to be seen drawing forth the covered cart . 
If I wished any private talk with our host , it must be now or never . 
Accordingly I groped my way downstairs , and came to him as he looked on at and lighted the harnessing of the horses . 
'The hour approaches when we have to part , said I 'and I shall be obliged if you will tell your servant to drop me at the nearest point for Dunstable . 
I am determined to go so far with our friends , Colonel X and Major Y , but my business is peremptory , and it takes me to the neighbourhood of Dunstable . 
Orders were given to my satisfaction , with an obsequiousness that seemed only inflamed by his potations . 
We had a dish of tea by the fireside , and then issued like criminals into the scathing cold of the night . 
For the weather had in the meantime changed . 
Upon the cessation of the rain , a strict frost had succeeded . 
The moon , being young , was already near the zenith when we started , glittered everywhere on sheets of ice , and sparkled in ten thousand icicles . 
A more unpromising night for a journey it was hard to conceive . 
was very positive that he could drive us without misadventure . 
Careful was the word all night , and it was an alleviation of our miseries that we did not often enjoy . 
There were interruptions , at times , that we hailed as alleviations . 
kept coming and going , and baiting and gaping at each other , as though a fair were due , and they were gathering to it from all England . 
No , nowhere in the world is travel so great a pleasure as in that country . 
Only twice did I receive , as it were , a whiff of the highway . 
The first reached my ears alone . 
I might have been anywhere . 
I must suppose that King was a thought careless , being nearly in desperation about his team , and , in spite of the cold morning , breathing hot with his exertions . 
So that we enjoyed for an instant a picture of free life on the road , in its most luxurious forms of despatch and comfort . 
And thereafter , with a poignant feeling of contrast in our hearts , we must mount again into our wheeled dungeon . 
We came to our stages at all sorts of odd hours , and they were in all kinds of odd places . 
I may say at once that my first experience was my best . 
Nowhere again were we so well entertained as at Burchell Fenn's . 
And this , I suppose , was natural , and indeed inevitable , in so long and secret a journey . 
But the day was beginning to break , and our fatigue was too extreme for visionary terrors . 
This old lady was an aunt of Burchell Fenn's and an unwilling partner in his dangerous trade . 
Though the house stood solitary , and the hour was an unlikely one for any passenger upon the road , King and she conversed in whispers only . 
There was something dismal , something of the sick room , in this perpetual , guarded sibilation . 
The apprehensions of our hostess insensibly communicated themselves to every one present . 
I had never any occasion to waver in my first judgment of the Colonel . 
The old gentleman seemed to me , and still seems in the retrospect , the salt of the earth . 
He had another anecdote which he was very apt to give , by way of a rebuke , when the Major wearied us beyond endurance with dispraises of the English . 
This was an account of the BRAVES GENS with whom he had been boarding . 
Their kindness had continued till the end . 
The last evening , when the time came to say good night , it was tacitly known to all that they were to look upon his face no more . 
It was a good thought to me that he had found these friends in captivity that he had started on this fatal journey from so cordial a farewell . 
'Champdivers , he once said , 'you are like a son to me like a son . 
It is good to remember , though at the time it put me on the rack . 
All was to no purpose . 
Fast as we were travelling towards France , he was travelling faster still to another destination . 
Daily he grew weaker and more indifferent . 
On the very last day he began again his eternal story of the cross and the Emperor . 
The Major , who was particularly ill , or at least particularly cross , uttered some angry words of protest . 
'PARDONNEZ MOI , MONSIEUR LE COMMANDANT , MAIS C'EST POUR MONSIEUR , said the Colonel 'Monsieur has not yet heard the circumstance , and is good enough to feel an interest . 
It struck me as the falling of the curtain or the closing of the sepulchre doors . 
Sure enough , in but a little while after , he fell into a sleep as gentle as an infant's , which insensibly changed into the sleep of death . 
It was only at our evening halt that the Major and I discovered we were travelling alone with the poor clay . 
The Colonel's also , for the sake of his parole . 
CHAPTER XV THE ADVENTURE OF THE ATTORNEY'S CLERK I HAVE mentioned our usual course , which was to eat in inconsiderable wayside hostelries , known to King . 
It was a dangerous business we went daily under fire to satisfy our appetite , and put our head in the loin's mouth for a piece of bread . 
In like manner we departed , to find the cart at an appointed place , some half a mile beyond . 
About nine or ten at night the pains of hunger and cold drove us to an alehouse in the flats of Bedfordshire , not far from Bedford itself . 
In the inn kitchen was a long , lean , characteristic looking fellow of perhaps forty , dressed in black . 
He sat on a settle by the fireside , smoking a long pipe , such as they call a yard of clay . 
His hat and wig were hanged upon the knob behind him , his head as bald as a bladder of lard , and his expression very shrewd , cantankerous , and inquisitive . 
I took upon myself the more ungrateful part of arriving last and by the time I entered on the scene the Major was already served at a side table . 
Some general conversation must have passed , and I smelled danger in the air . 
had let their pipes go out . 
'Give you good evening , sir ! said the attorney's clerk to me . 
'Sir , said I , 'I am not one of those who speak either of their business or their destination in houses of public entertainment . 
'A good answer , said he , 'and an excellent principle . 
Sir , do you speak French ? 'Why , no , sir , said I. 'A little Spanish at your service . 
'But you know the French accent , perhaps ? said the clerk . 
'Well do I do that ! said I. 'The French accent ? Why , I believe I can tell a Frenchman in ten words . 
'Here is a puzzle for you , then ! he said . 
'I have no material doubt myself , but some of these gentlemen are more backward . 
The lack of education , you know . 
I make bold to say that a man cannot walk , cannot hear , and cannot see , without the blessings of education . 
He turned to the Major , whose food plainly stuck in his throat . 
'Now , sir , pursued the clerk , 'let me have the pleasure to hear your voice again . 
Where are you going , did you say ? 'Sare , I am go ing to Lon don , said the Major . 
I could have flung my plate at him to be such an ass , and to have so little a gift of languages where that was the essential . 
'What think ye of that ? said the clerk . 
I will warrant his views of politics to be as sound as your own . 
'What is a little strange , said the clerk quietly , 'is that Mr. Dubois should deny it . 
Enough , that it was a very little error , and one that might have passed ninety nine times in a hundred . 
But my limb of the law was as swift to pick it up as though he had been by trade a master of languages . 
'Aha ! cries he 'and you are French , too ! Your tongue bewrays you . 
I have to trouble you for your papers . 
'Not the law , sir ! said I. 'I hope I am too good a subject for that . 
But for a nameless fellow with a bald head and a pair of gingham small clothes , why certainly ! 'Tis my birthright as an Englishman . 
The attorney's clerk was put to a stand . 
On the other hand , the Major and I put a bold front on the business and defied him , not without some ground of law . 
I told him I would not stir a foot for him if it were to save his soul . 
Next he proposed I should stay all night where I was , and the constable could see to my affair in the morning , when he was sober . 
At the same time , I was thinking the matter had lasted altogether too long , and I determined to bring it to an end at once . 
Take off your coat , sir , and these gentlemen shall see fair play . 
At this there came a look in his eye that I could not mistake . 
His education had been neglected in one essential and eminently British particular he could not box . 
No more could I , you may say but then I had the more impudence and I had made the proposal . 
'He says I'm no Englishman , but the proof of the pudding is the eating of it , I continued . 
And here I stripped my coat and fell into the proper attitude , which was just about all I knew of this barbarian art . 
I drew a bank note out of my fob and tossed it to the landlord . 
'There are the stakes , said I. 'I'll fight you for first blood , since you seem to make so much work about it . 
If you tap my claret first , there are five guineas for you , and I'll go with you to any squire you choose to mention . 
'Ay , ay , said the chorus of chawbacons 'he can't say no fairer nor that , he can't . 
Already the Major was paying his shot to the very indifferent landlord , and I could see the white face of King at the back door , making signals of haste . 
'Oho ! quoth my enemy , 'you are as full of doubles as a fox , are you not ? But I see through you I see through and through you . 
'Which is a point , if you will observe , that I had never called in question , said he . 
I say , and I stick to it , that he's a Frenchy . 
You're not the kind to be talked over with any French gammon , and he's plenty of that . 
But let me tell him , he can take his pigs to another market they'll never do here they'll never go down in Bedfordshire . 
He might not be much of a hand at boxing but I was much mistaken , or he had studied forensic eloquence in a good school . 
In this predicament I could think of nothing more ingenious than to burst out of the house , under the pretext of an ungovernable rage . 
It was certainly not very ingenious it was elementary , but I had no choice . 
'You white livered dog ! I broke out . 
The position of my adversary was now thoroughly bad . 
He had lost my two companions . 
He was on the point of losing me also . 
There was plainly no hope of arousing the company to help and watching him with a corner of my eye , I saw him hesitate for a moment . 
'The devil ! thought I 'is the rascal going to follow me ? I was scarce clear of the inn before the limb of the law was at my heels . 
I saw his face plain in the moonlight and the most resolute purpose showed in it , along with an unmoved composure . 
A chill went over me . 
'This is no common adventure , thinks I to myself . 
'You have got hold of a man of character , St . 
And I told myself that in a few minutes' walking , Bow street runner or not , I should have him at my mercy . 
And then reflection came to me in time . 
Of all things , one was out of the question . 
Upon no account must this obtrusive fellow see the cart . 
The branch to the left was overhung with trees , deeply sunken and dark . 
Not a ray of moonlight penetrated its recesses and I took it at a venture . 
The wretch followed my example in silence and for some time we crunched together over frozen pools without a word . 
Then he found his voice , with a chuckle . 
'This is not the way to Mr. Merton's , said he . 
'No ? said I. 'It is mine , however . 
'And therefore mine , said he . 
Again we fell silent and we may thus have covered half a mile before the lane , taking a sudden turn , brought us forth again into the moonshine . 
I observed , too , that his valise was heavy and , putting this and that together , hit upon a plan . 
'A seasonable night , sir , said I. 'What do you say to a bit of running ? The frost has me by the toes . 
'With all the pleasure in life , says he . 
His voice seemed well assured , which pleased me little . 
However , there was nothing else to try , except violence , for which it would always be too soon . 
I took to my heels accordingly , he after me and for some time the slapping of our feet on the hard road might have been heard a mile away . 
He had started a pace behind me , and he finished in the same position . 
For all his extra years and the weight of his valise , he had not lost a hair's breadth . 
The devil might race him for me I had enough of it ! And , besides , to run so fast was contrary to my interests . 
We could not run long without arriving somewhere . 
There was no help for it I must finish with him on the spot , as long as it was possible . 
I looked about me , and the place seemed suitable never a light , never a house nothing but stubble fields , fallows , and a few stunted trees . 
I stopped and eyed him in the moonlight with an angry stare . 
'Enough of this foolery ! said I. He had tamed , and now faced me full , very pale , but with no sign of shrinking . 
'I am quite of your opinion , said he . 
'You have tried me at the running you can try me next at the high jump . 
It will be all the same . 
It must end the one way . 
I made my holly whistle about my head . 
'I believe you know what way ! said I. 'We are alone , it is night , and I am wholly resolved . 
Are you not frightened ? 'No , he said , 'not in the smallest . 
I do not box , sir but I am not a coward , as you may have supposed . 
Perhaps it will simplify our relations if I tell you at the outset that I walk armed . 
Quick as lightning I made a feint at his head as quickly he gave ground , and at the same time I saw a pistol glitter in his hand . 
'No more of that , Mr. French Prisoner ! he said . 
'It will do me no good to have your death at my door . 
'Faith , nor me either ! said I and I lowered my stick and considered the man , not without a twinkle of admiration . 
'You see , I said , 'there is one consideration that you appear to overlook there are a great many chances that your pistol may miss fire . 
'I have a pair , he returned . 
'Never travel without a brace of barkers . 
'I make you my compliment , said I. 'You are able to take care of yourself , and that is a good trait . 
But , my good man ! let us look at this matter dispassionately . 
'Oh ! damn your French words ! cried I. 'You seem to be a Frenchman yourself ! 'I have had many opportunities by which I have profited , he explained . 
'Few men are better acquainted with the similarities and differences , whether of idiom or accent , of the two languages . 
'You are a pompous fellow , too ! said I. 'Oh , I can make distinctions , sir , says he . 
'I can talk with Bedfordshire peasants and I can express myself becomingly , I hope , in the company of a gentleman of education like yourself . 
'If you set up to be a gentleman I began . 
'Pardon me , he interrupted 'I make no such claim . 
I only see the nobility and gentry in the way of business . 
I am quite a plain person . 
'For the Lord's sake , I exclaimed , 'set my mind at rest upon one point . 
In the name of mystery , who and what are you ? 'I have no cause to be ashamed of my name , sir , said he , 'nor yet my trade . 
I am Thomas Dudgeon , at your service , clerk to Mr. Daniel Romaine , solicitor of London High Holborn is our address , sir . 
It was only by the ecstasy of the relief that I knew how horribly I had been frightened . 
I flung my stick on the road . 
I would not listen to him . 
'Keep back , or I declare I will fire , he was crying . 
'Have a care , for God's sake ! My pistol He might scream as be pleased . 
He bleated in my embrace so bleats the sheep in the arms of the butcher . 
With his wig over one eye , he looked incredibly rueful and put out . 
'Cheer up , Dudgeon the ordeal is over , you shall be embraced no more . 
No , let me put it on square , and the wig before it . 
Never suffer any stress of circumstances to come between you and the duty you owe to yourself . 
If you have nobody else to dress for , dress for God ! 'Put your wig straight On your bald pate , Keep your chin scraped , And your figure draped . 
'But , my dear sir ! he exclaimed . 
'But , my dear sir ! I echoed , 'I will allow no man to interrupt the flow of my ideas . 
Give me your opinion on my quatrain , or I vow we shall have a quarrel of it . 
'Certainly you are quite an original , he said . 
'Quite , said I 'and I believe I have my counterpart before me . 
'Oh , but that's not fair that's Pope ! It's not original , Dudgeon . 
Understand me , said I , wringing his breast button , 'the first duty of all poetry is to be mine , sir mine . 
Inspiration now swells in my bosom , because to tell you the plain truth , and descend a little in style I am devilish relieved at the turn things have taken . 
So , I dare say , are you yourself , Dudgeon , if you would only allow it . 
And A PROPOS , let me ask you a home question . 
Between friends , have you ever fired that pistol ? 'Why , yes , sir , he replied . 
'And you would have fired at me , you bloody minded man ? I cried . 
'If you go to that , you seemed mighty reckless with your stick , said Dudgeon . 
'You go a little too fast , if you'll excuse me , Mr. I do not know your name , that I am aware , said Dudgeon . 
'No , to be sure ! said I. 'Never heard of it ! 'A word of explanation he began . 
'No , Dudgeon ! I interrupted . 
'Be practical I know what you want , and the name of it is supper . 
RIEN NE CREUSE COMME L'EMOTION . 
I am hungry myself , and yet I am more accustomed to warlike palpitations than you , who are but a hunter of hedgesparrows . 
Methought there seemed a brightening in his eye and a melting about his mouth at this enumeration . 
'The night is young , I continued 'not much past eleven , for a wager . 
Where can we find a good inn ? And remark that I say GOOD , for the port must be up to the occasion not a headache in a pipe of it . 
'You must have your way , I see . 
We are not three miles from Bedford by this very road . 
'Done ! cried I. 'Bedford be it ! I tucked his arm under mine , possessed myself of the valise , and walked him off unresisting . 
Presently we came to an open piece of country lying a thought downhill . 
The road was smooth and free of ice , the moonshine thin and bright over the meadows and the leafless trees . 
In the exhilaration of my heart I took the music on myself 'Merrily danced the Quaker's wife , And merrily danced the Quaker . 
A man made of putty must have danced , and even Dudgeon showed himself to be a human being . 
Presently we began to see the lights of Bedford . 
My Puritanic companion stopped and disengaged himself . 
'This is a trifle INFRA DIG . 
, sir , is it not ? said he . 
'A party might suppose we had been drinking . 
Never neglect a precaution never put off till to morrow what you can do to day ! But he had no more frivolity to complain of . 
a glass of an excellent light dry port , put me in a humour only to be described as heavenly . 
After all , in this world every dog hangs by its own tail . 
'And now , Dudgeon , to explain , I began . 
'I know your master , he knows me , and he knows and approves of my errand . 
So much I may tell you , that I am on my way to Amersham Place . 
'Oho ! quoth Dudgeon , 'I begin to see . 
'I am heartily glad of it , said I , passing the bottle , 'because that is about all I can tell you . 
You must take my word for the remainder . 
Either believe me or don't . 
, this will not be at all to your mind . 
You can take your choice . 
'And that is soon taken , said he . 
'Go to Amersham tomorrow , or go to the devil if you prefer I wash my hands of you and the whole transaction . 
No , you don't find me putting my head in between Romaine and a client ! A good man of business , sir , but hard as millstone grit . 
'That reminds me , said I. 'I have a great curiosity , and you can satisfy it . 
'Why , sir , says he , 'there is such a thing as patriotism , I hope . 
CHAPTER XVI THE HOME COMING OF MR . 
ROWLEY'S VISCOUNT BY eight the next morning Dudgeon and I had made our parting . 
By that time we had grown to be extremely familiar and I would very willingly have kept him by me , and even carried him to Amersham Place . 
If Dudgeon had had his way the night before , I should have been arrested on my uncle's land and by my uncle's agent , a culmination of ill luck . 
A little after noon I started , in a hired chaise , by way of Dunstable . 
The mere mention of the name Amersham Place made every one supple and smiling . 
It was plainly a great house , and my uncle lived there in style . 
The fame of it rose as we approached , like a chain of mountains at Bedford they touched their caps , but in Dunstable they crawled upon their bellies . 
'You're probably expected , sir , at the Place ? I do trust you may 'ave better accounts of his lordship's 'elth , sir . 
We understood that his lordship , Mosha de Carwell , was main bad . 
I should have known you anywheres by the likeness to the dear viscount . 
Ha , poor gentleman , he must 'ave a 'eavy 'eart these days . 
From Dunstable I rolled away into a crescendo of similar impressions . 
Though I was but driving in a hired chaise , word of my destination seemed to have gone abroad , and the women curtseyed and the men louted to me by the wayside . 
As I came near , I began to appreciate the roots of this widespread respect . 
It was about the size of the Tuileries . 
A portico of Doric columns adorned the front , and would have done honour to a temple . 
I have seen many dignitaries in my time , but none who quite equalled this eminent being who was good enough to answer to the unassuming name of Dawson . 
From him I learned that my uncle was extremely low , a doctor in close attendance , Mr. Romaine expected at any moment , and that my cousin , the Vicomte de St . 
Yves , had been sent for the same morning . 
'It was a sudden seizure , then ? I asked . 
Well , he would scarcely go as far as that . 
'It seemed to me , my lord , said he , 'as if this was a time when all the fambly should be called together . 
I approved him with my lips , but not in my heart . 
Dawson was plainly in the interests of my cousin . 
My lordship had not the faintest . 
'At the same time , I said , 'I have had an accident I have unhappily lost my baggage , and am here in what I stand in . 
I don't know if the doctor be a formalist , but it is quite impossible I should appear at table as I ought . 
He begged me to be under no anxiety . 
'We have been long expecting you , said he . 
Such I found to be the truth . 
The dream in which I had been moving seemed to have reached its pitch . 
'This will be all as you would want , sir ? said Mr. Dawson . 
'This 'ere boy , Rowley , we place entirely at your disposition . 
So saying , the eminent and already detested Mr. Dawson took his departure , and I was left alone with Rowley . 
To be attended on by servants I had only been accustomed to in inns . 
My toilet had long been military , to a moment , at the note of a bugle , too often at a ditch side . 
And it need not be wondered at if I looked on my new valet with a certain diffidence . 
But I remembered that if he was my first experience of a valet , I was his first trial as a master . 
Cheered by which consideration , I demanded my bath in a style of good assurance . 
'Hey , Rowley ? I asked , not quite resigned to go under fire with such an inexperienced commander . 
'It's all right , is it ? You feel pretty sure of your weapons ? 'Yes , my lord , he replied . 
'It's all right , I assure your lordship . 
It is the way of my country , as I dare say you know . 
'But you're just as much a Viscount as Mr. Powl's , are you not ? he said . 
'As Mr. Powl's Viscount ? said I , laughing . 
'Oh , keep your mind easy , Mr. Rowley's is every bit as good . 
Only , you see , as I am of the younger line , I bear my Christian name along with the title . 
Alain is the VISCOUNT I am the VISCOUNT ANNE . 
And in giving me the name of Mr. Anne , I assure you you will be quite regular . 
'Yes , Mr. Anne , said the docile youth . 
'But about the shaving , sir , you need be under no alarm . 
Mr. Powl says I 'ave excellent dispositions . 
Powl ? said I. 'That doesn't seem to me very like a French name . 
'No , sir , indeed , my lord , said he , with a burst of confidence . 
'No , indeed , Mr. Anne , and it do not surely . 
I should say now , it was more like Mr. Pole . 
'And Mr. Powl is the Viscount's man ? 'Yes , Mr. Anne , said he . 
'He 'ave a hard billet , he do . 
The Viscount is a very particular gentleman . 
I don't think as you'll be , Mr. Anne ? he added , with a confidential smile in the mirror . 
He was about sixteen , well set up , with a pleasant , merry , freckled face , and a pair of dancing eyes . 
There was an air at once deprecatory and insinuating about the rascal that I thought I recognised . 
There came to me from my own boyhood memories of certain passionate admirations long passed away , and the objects of them long ago discredited or dead . 
And looking in the mirror , it seemed to me that I read the face of Rowley , like an echo or a ghost , by the light of my own youth . 
that I am first of all an economist and the last thing that I would care to throw away is that very valuable piece of property a boy's hero worship . 
'Why , said I , 'you shave like an angel , Mr. Rowley ! 'Thank you , my lord , says he . 
Powl had no fear of me . 
You may be sure , sir , I should never 'ave had this berth if I 'adn't 'ave been up to Dick . 
We been expecting of you this month back . 
My eye ! I never see such preparations . 
'Your hair curls beautiful , he said , by way of changing the subject . 
'The Viscount's the boy for curls , though and the richness of it is , Mr. Powl tells me his don't curl no more than that much twine by nature . 
Gettin' old , the Viscount is . 
He 'AVE gone the pace , 'aven't 'e , sir ? 'The fact is , said I , 'that I know very little about him . 
Our family has been much divided , and I have been a soldier from a child . 
'A soldier , Mr. Anne , sir ? cried Rowley , with a sudden feverish animation . 
He looked at it with awe . 
'Ah , well ! he continued , 'there's where the difference comes in ! It's in the training . 
The other Viscount have been horse racing , and dicing , and carrying on all his life . 
All right enough , no doubt but what I do say is , that it don't lead to nothink . 
Whereas 'Whereas Mr. Rowley's ? I put in . 
'My Viscount ? said he . 
'I'd say it again , Mr. Hanne , he said . 
'I know which side my bread's buttered . 
I know when a gen'leman's a gen'leman . 
Mr. Powl can go to Putney with his one ! Beg your pardon , Mr. Anne , for being so familiar , said he , blushing suddenly scarlet . 
'I was especially warned against it by Mr. Powl . 
'Discipline before all , said I. 'Follow your front rank man . 
With that , we began to turn our attention to the clothes . 
''Tis extraordinary , cried I 'these things fit me perfectly . 
'Indeed , Mr. Anne , you two be very much of a shape , said Rowley . 
'Who ? What two ? said I. 'The Viscount , he said . 
'Damnation ! Have I the man's clothes on me , too ? cried I. But Rowley hastened to reassure me . 
'But they were all made for you express , Mr. Anne . 
You may be certain the Count would never do nothing by 'alf fires kep' burning the finest of clothes ordered , I'm sure , and a body servant being trained a purpose . 
The greatest men of antiquity , including Caesar and Hannibal and Pope Joan , may have been very glad , at my time of life or Alain's , to follow his example . 
I had not supposed it lay in the genius of any cook to create , out of common beef and mutton , things so different and dainty . 
You are to think that up to the present moment I had not set eyes on this formidable personage , only on the evidences of his wealth and kindness . 
You are to think besides that I had heard him miscalled and abused from my earliest childhood up . 
The first of the EMIGRES could never expect a good word in the society in which my father moved . 
He lay propped on pillows in a little cot no greater than a camp bed , not visibly breathing . 
There was an unspeakable degree of slyness in his expression , which kept me ill at ease he seemed to lie there with his arms folded , like a spider waiting for prey . 
His speech was very deliberate and courteous , but scarce louder than a sigh . 
'I bid you welcome , MONSIEUR LE VICOMTE ANNE , said he , looking at me hard with his pale eyes , but not moving on his pillows . 
'I have sent for you , and I thank you for the obliging expedition you have shown . 
It is my misfortune that I cannot rise to receive you . 
I trust you have been reasonably well entertained ? 'MONSIEUR MON ONCLE , I said , bowing very low , 'I am come at the summons of the head of my family . 
'It is well , he said . 
I should be glad to hear some news if that can be called news that is already twenty years old of how I have the pleasure to see you here . 
By the coldness of his address , not more than by the nature of the times that he bade me recall , I was plunged in melancholy . 
I felt myself surrounded as with deserts of friendlessness , and the delight of my welcome was turned to ashes in my mouth . 
I am sufficiently informed of that deplorable affair it is painful to me . 
My nephew , your father , was a man who would not be advised , said he . 
'Tell me , if you please , simply of yourself . 
That was my only refuge there was no corner of France that I could rest the sole of my foot upon except the prison . 
Monsieur le Comte , you are as well aware as I can be what kind of a life that was , and how swiftly death smote in that society . 
I did not wait long before the name of Madame de Chasserades succeeded to that of my mother on the list . 
She passed me on to Madame de Noytot she , in her turn , to Mademoiselle de Braye and there were others . 
I was the cherished one , the last comfort , of these dying women . 
I have been in pitched fights , my lord , and I never knew such courage . 
There were some that wept too . 
I was wandering distracted , when I was found by some one in the interests of Monsieur de Culemberg . 
I remember but the one circumstance of my flight it was my last view of my last pretty mamma . 
Shall I describe it to you ? I asked the Count , with a sudden fierceness . 
'Avoid unpleasant details , observed my great uncle gently . 
At these words a sudden peace fell upon me . 
I had been angry with the man before I had not sought to spare him and now , in a moment , I saw that there was nothing to spare . 
'Certainly , said I 'and , indeed , the day for them is nearly over . 
I was taken to Monsieur de Culemberg's , I presume , sir , that you know the Abbe de Culemberg ? He indicated assent without opening his eyes . 
'He was a very brave and a very learned man 'And a very holy one , said my uncle civilly . 
'And a very holy one , as you observe , I continued . 
'He did an infinity of good , and through all the Terror kept himself from the guillotine . 
He brought me up , and gave me such education as I have . 
'That poor Mr. Vicary ! observed my uncle . 
'He had been many times in my interests to France , and this was his first failure . 
'You narrate well VOUS AVES LA VOIX CHAUDE , said my uncle , turning on his pillows as if to study me . 
'I have a very good account of you by Monsieur de Mauseant , whom you helped in Spain . 
And you had some education from the Abbe de Culemberg , a man of a good house ? Yes , you will do very well . 
You have a good manner and a handsome person , which hurts nothing . 
We are all handsome in the family even I myself , I have had my successes , the memories of which still charm me . 
It is my intention , my nephew , to make of you my heir . 
I am not very well content with my other nephew , Monsieur le Vicomte he has not been respectful , which is the flattery due to age . 
And there are other matters . 
I was half tempted to throw back in his face that inheritance so coldly offered . 
I really owed the man some measure of gratitude , which it would be an ill manner to repay if I were to insult him on his deathbed . 
'Your will , monsieur , must ever be my rule , said I , bowing . 
'You have wit , MONSIEUR MON NEVEU , said he , 'the best wit the wit of silence . 
Many might have deafened me with their gratitude . 
Gratitude ! he repeated , with a peculiar intonation , and lay and smiled to himself . 
'But to approach what is more important . 
'Well , sir , I must then contrive to be doing as I did before , said I. 'Not so , said the Count . 
I have just drawn my balance at my banker's , a considerable sum , and I am now to place it in your hands . 
It will be so much for you and so much less he paused , and smiled with an air of malignity that surprised me . 
'But it is necessary it should be done before witnesses . 
MONSIEUR LE VICOMTE is of a particular disposition , and an unwitnessed donation may very easily be twisted into a theft . 
He touched a bell , which was answered by a man having the appearance of a confidential valet . 
To him he gave a key . 
'Bring me the despatch box that came yesterday , La Ferriere , said he . 
'You will at the same time present my compliments to Dr . 
Hunter and M. l'Abbe , and request them to step for a few moments to my room . 
The despatch box proved to be rather a bulky piece of baggage , covered with Russia leather . 
At my chamber door I took it from him with thanks , and entered alone . 
Everything had been already disposed for the night , the curtains drawn and the fire trimmed and Rowley was still busy with my bedclothes . 
He turned round as I entered with a look of welcome that did my heart good . 
Indeed , I had never a much greater need of human sympathy , however trivial , than at that moment when I held a fortune in my arms . 
In my uncle's room I had breathed the very atmosphere of disenchantment . 
He had gorged my pockets he had starved every dignified or affectionate sentiment of a man . 
'Now , Rowley , don't be in a hurry , said I. 'This is a momentous juncture . 
Man and boy , you have been in my service about three hours . 
You must already have observed that I am a gentleman of a somewhat morose disposition , and there is nothing that I more dislike than the smallest appearance of familiarity . 
Mr. Pole or Mr. Powl , probably in the spirit of prophecy , warned you against this danger . 
'Yes , Mr. Anne , said Rowley blankly . 
'Now there has just arisen one of those rare cases , in which I am willing to depart from my principles . 
My uncle has given me a box what you would call a Christmas box . 
'Now , Rowley , hold up your right hand and repeat the words of the oath after me , said I , laying the despatch box on the table . 
Viscount Anne de Keroual de St . 
Yves , commonly known as Mr. Rowley's Viscount . 
He took the oath with the same exaggerated seriousness as I gave it to him . 
'Now , said I. 'Here is the key for you I will hold the lid with both hands in the meanwhile . 
'Bring up all the candles in the room , and range them along side . 
At sight of the heap of bank paper and gold that lay in front of us , between the candles , or rolled upon the floor alongside , I stood astonished . 
'O Lord ! cried Mr. Rowley 'oh Lordy , Lordy , Lord ! and he scrambled after the fallen guineas . 
'O my , Mr. Anne ! what a sight o' money ! Why , it's like a blessed story book . 
It's like the Forty Thieves . 
If I'm not mistaken , I have enough here to keep you in gold buttons all the rest of your life . 
You collect the gold , and I'll take the paper . 
The arithmetical operation on which we were embarked took long , and it might have been tedious to others not to me nor to my helper . 
'Ten thousand pounds ! I announced at last . 
'Ten thousand ! echoed Mr. Rowley . 
And we gazed upon each other . 
The greatness of this fortune took my breath away . 
With that sum in my hands , I need fear no enemies . 
Not only so but , as I felt with a sudden and overpowering thrill , with ten thousand pounds in my hands I was become an eligible suitor . 
And now , I might come in by the front door I might approach the dragon with a lawyer at my elbow , and rich settlements to offer . 
The poor French prisoner , Champdivers , might be in a perpetual danger of arrest but the rich travelling Englishman , St . 
Ives , in his post chaise , with his despatch box by his side , could smile at fate and laugh at locksmiths . 
'Rowley , said I , 'your Viscount is a made man . 
'Why , we both are , sir , said Rowley . 
ROMAINE CALLS ME NAMES FEELING very much of a fool to be thus taken by surprise , I scrambled to my feet and hastened to make my visitor welcome . 
'So , sir , I find you here ? said he , in tones of little encouragement . 
'Is that you , George ? You can run away I have business with your master . 
He showed Rowley out , and locked the door behind him . 
Then he sat down in an armchair on one side of the fire , and looked at me with uncompromising sternness . 
'I am hesitating how to begin , said he . 
'In this singular labyrinth of blunders and difficulties that you have prepared for us , I am positively hesitating where to begin . 
It will perhaps be best that you should read , first of all , this paragraph . 
And he handed over to me a newspaper . 
The paragraph in question was brief . 
At the reading of this paragraph , my heart turned over . 
Despair , which was my first sentiment , did not , however , endure for more than a moment . 
If they thought me at the bottom of the North Sea , I need not fear much vigilance on the streets of Edinburgh . 
Champdivers was wanted what was to connect him with St . 
Well , even so he would have a competition of testimony before him he knew Clausel , he knew me , and I was sure he would decide for honour . 
'Very annoying , no doubt , said I , as I returned the paper to Mr. Romaine . 
'Is annoying your word for it ? said he . 
'Exasperating , if you like , I admitted . 
'And true ? he inquired . 
I narrated to him as much as seemed necessary of the quarrel , the duel , the death of Goguelat , and the character of Clausel . 
'I suppose I may believe you ? said he , when I had done . 
'I beg your pardon ! said I. 'Oh , my expressions have been selected with scrupulous accuracy , he replied . 
It might have been any one your cousin as well as another . 
'You have me there , sir , I admitted . 
'I had neglected all precautions , and you do right to be angry . 
'I drove up in a chaise and pair , he returned . 
'Any one might have heard me . 
Ah , yes , I did it , God forgive me ! did it before I so much as asked you the explanation of the paragraph . 
For some time back the will has been prepared now it is signed and your uncle has heard nothing of your recent piece of activity . 
Why ? Well , I had no fancy to bother him on his death bed you might be innocent and at bottom I preferred the murderer to the spy . 
No doubt of it but the man played a friendly part no doubt also that , in his ill temper and anxiety , he expressed himself unpalatably . 
'It is there in six letters . 
And do not be so certain you have not stood your trial yet . 
It is an ugly affair , a fishy business . 
I would give my hand off I mean I would give a hundred pound down , to have nothing to do with it . 
And , situated as we are , we must at once take action . 
There is here no choice . 
You must at once quit this country , and get to France , or Holland , or , indeed , to Madagascar . 
'There may be two words to that , said I. 'Not so much as one syllable ! he retorted . 
'Here is no room for argument . 
The case is nakedly plain . 
In the disgusting position in which you have found means to place yourself , all that is to be hoped for is delay . 
A time may come when we shall be able to do better . 
It cannot be now now it would be the gibbet . 
'You labour under a false impression , Mr. Romaine , said I. 'I have no impatience to figure in the dock . 
I am even as anxious as yourself to postpone my first appearance there . 
On the other hand , I have not the slightest intention of leaving this country , where I please myself extremely . 
I have a good address , a ready tongue , an English accent that passes , and , thanks to the generosity of my uncle , as much money as I want . 
It would be hard indeed if , with all these advantages , Mr. St . 
Ives should not be able to live quietly in a private lodging , while the authorities amuse themselves by looking for Champdivers . 
You forget , there is no connection between these two personages . 
'And you forget your cousin , retorted Romaine . 
There is the tongue of the buckle . 
He knows you are Champdivers . 
He put up his hand as if to listen . 
'And , for a wager , here he is himself ! he exclaimed . 
And , looking out between the curtains , we beheld the lamps skimming on the smooth ascent . 
'Ay , said Romaine , wiping the window pane that he might see more clearly . 
'You will find him a dangerous kind , answered the lawyer . 
Ay , there is what I was waiting for ! he cried , as the lights of a second chaise swam in sight . 
'It is he beyond a doubt . 
The first was the signature and the next the flourish . 
Two chaises , the second following with the baggage , which is always copious and ponderous , and one of his valets he cannot go a step without a valet . 
'I hear you repeat the word big , said I. 'But it cannot be that he is anything out of the way in stature . 
'No , said the attorney . 
'About your height , as I guessed for the tailors , and I see nothing wrong with the result . 
But this is beside the mark , he added , with an effort , turning again from the window . 
'We are now under fire , Mr. Anne , as you soldiers would say , and it is high time we should prepare to go into action . 
He must not see you that would be fatal . 
All that he knows at present is that you resemble him , and that is much more than enough . 
If it were possible , it would be well he should not know you were in the house . 
'Quite impossible , depend upon it , said I. 'Some of the servants are directly in his interests , perhaps in his pay Dawson , for an example . 
'My own idea ! cried Romaine . 
'And at least , he added , as the first of the chaises drew up with a dash in front of the portico , 'it is now too late . 
It was plain the arrival of my cousin was a matter of moment , almost of parade , to the household . 
And suddenly , out of this confused and distant bustle , a rapid and light tread became distinguishable . 
We heard it come upstairs , draw near along the corridor , pause at the door , and a stealthy and hasty rapping succeeded . 
Anne Mr. Anne , sir ! Let me in ! said the voice of Rowley . 
We admitted the lad , and locked the door again behind him . 
'It's HIM , sir , he panted . 
'You mean the Viscount ? said I. 'So we supposed . 
But come , Rowley out with the rest of it ! You have more to tell us , or your face belies you ! 'Mr . 
Anne , I do , he said . 
'Well , it's this way , said Rowley 'Mr . 
I saw that he had forgotten himself , and that he knew it . 
'Sky blue scarlet ? repeated the lawyer . 
'Is the fool delirious ? 'No , said I 'he is only reminding me of something . 
'Well and I believe the fellow will be faithful , said Romaine . 
'So you are a friend of Mr. Anne's' too ? he added to Rowley . 
'If you please , sir , said Rowley . 
''Tis something sudden , observed Romaine 'but it may be genuine enough . 
I believe him to be honest . 
He comes of honest people . 
Tell him there are a hundred things to be done here , and a hundred more that can only be done properly at my office in Holborn . 
Come to think of it we had better see to that first of all , he went on , unlocking the door . 
'Get hold of Powl , and see . 
And be quick back , and clear me up this mess . 
Mr. Rowley was no sooner gone than the lawyer took a pinch of snuff , and regarded me with somewhat of a more genial expression . 
'Sir , said he , 'it is very fortunate for you that your face is so strong a letter of recommendation . 
I wish I could imagine how it would impress a jury ! says he . 
'And how it would affect the hangman , sir ? I asked 'ABSIT OMEN ! said Mr. Romaine devoutly . 
We were just so far in our talk , when I heard a sound that brought my heart into my mouth the sound of some one slyly trying the handle of the door . 
It had been preceded by no audible footstep . 
Since the departure of Rowley our wing of the house had been entirely silent . 
'Who is there ? asked Romaine . 
'It's only me , sir , said the soft voice of Dawson . 
'It's the Viscount , sir . 
He is very desirous to speak with you on business . 
'Tell him I shall come shortly , Dawson , said the lawyer . 
'I am at present engaged . 
'Thank you , sir ! said Dawson . 
And we heard his feet draw off slowly along the corridor . 
'Yes , said Mr. Romaine , speaking low , and maintaining the attitude of one intently listening , 'there is another foot . 
I cannot be deceived ! 'I think there was indeed ! said I. 'And what troubles me I am not sure that the other has gone entirely away . 
By the time it got the length of the head of the stair the tread was plainly single . 
'Ahem blockaded ? asked the lawyer . 
'A siege EN REGLE ! I exclaimed . 
'Let us come farther from the door , said Romaine , 'and reconsider this damnable position . 
Without doubt , Alain was this moment at the door . 
He hoped to enter and get a view of you , as if by accident . 
'But this is the accursed drawback of your position . 
We can do nothing openly . 
'And , come to think of it , it is droll enough that I should have been that very moment commenting on your personal appearance , when your cousin came upon this mission . 
I was saying , if you remember , that your face was as good or better than a letter of recommendation . 
'He thinks well of it , Mr. Romaine . 
He begs to join himself to that circle of admirers which you indicate to exist already . 
CHAPTER XIX THE DEVIL AND ALL AT AMERSHAM PLACE NEVER did two human creatures get to their feet with more alacrity than the lawyer and myself . 
Then I transferred my eyes to my enemy . 
He had his hat on , a little on one side it was a very tall hat , raked extremely , and had a narrow curling brim . 
His hair was all curled out in masses like an Italian mountebank a most unpardonable fashion . 
The leg and the ankle were turned to a miracle . 
It is out of the question that I should deny the resemblance altogether , since it has been remarked by so many different persons whom I cannot reasonably accuse of a conspiracy . 
As a matter of fact , I saw little of it and confessed to nothing . 
Of his frame of mind at that moment his face offered a lively if an unconscious picture . 
He looked me up and down , then bowed and took off his hat to me . 
'My cousin , I presume ? he said . 
'I understand I have that honour , I replied . 
'The honour is mine , said he , and his voice shook as he said it . 
'I should make you welcome , I believe , said I. 'Why ? he inquired . 
'This poor house has been my home for longer than I care to claim . 
That you should already take upon yourself the duties of host here is to be at unnecessary pains . 
Believe me , that part would be more becomingly mine . 
And , by the way , I must not fail to offer you my little compliment . 
I bowed with a smile that was perhaps no less hateful than his own . 
'There are so many necessities in this world , said I. 'Charity has to choose . 
One gets relieved , and some other , no less indigent , perhaps indebted , must go wanting . 
'Malice is an engaging trait , said he . 
'And envy , I think ? was my reply . 
'By whose orders , then , am I denied entrance to my uncle's room ? said my cousin . 
'By the doctor's , sir , replied Romaine 'and I think even you will admit his faculty to give them . 
'Have a care , sir , cried Alain . 
'Do not be puffed up with your position . 
It is none so secure , Master Attorney . 
his dignity has not prevented his doing very well for himself . 
I wonder that you should care to prevaricate with me so idly . 
'I will confess so much , said Mr. Romaine , 'if you call it prevarication . 
The order in question emanated from the Count himself . 
He does not wish to see you . 
'For which I must take the word of Mr. Daniel Romaine ? asked Alain . 
'In default of any better , said Romaine . 
'Understand you have stolen a march upon me . 
he has been apparently accepted with favour . 
I ask no better proof than the funds with which I find him literally surrounded I presume in consequence of some extravagance of joy at the first sight of so much money . 
The odds are so far in your favour , but the match is not yet won . 
Questions will arise of undue influence , of sequestration , and the like I have my witnesses ready . 
'You do what you please , answered Romaine 'but I give it you for a piece of good advice , you had best do nothing in the matter . 
You will only make yourself ridiculous you will only squander money , of which you have none too much , and reap public mortification . 
'Ah , but there you make the common mistake , Mr. Romaine ! returned Alain . 
Consider , if you please , how very disagreeable I could make myself , if I chose . 
Consider the position of your PROTEGE an escaped prisoner ! But I play a great game . 
I condemn such petty opportunities . 
At this Romaine and I exchanged a glance of triumph . 
It seemed manifest that Alain had as yet received no word of Clausel's recapture and denunciation . 
At the same moment the lawyer , thus relieved of the instancy of his fear , changed his tactics . 
With a great air of unconcern , he secured the newspaper , which still lay open before him on the table . 
'I think , Monsieur Alain , that you labour under some illusion , said he . 
'Believe me , this is all beside the mark . 
You seem to be pointing to some compromise . 
Nothing is further from my views . 
You suspect me of an inclination to trifle with you , to conceal how things are going . 
Your great uncle has to night cancelled his will , and made a new one in favour of your cousin Anne . 
Nay , and you shall hear it from his own lips , if you choose ! I will take so much upon me , said the lawyer , rising . 
'Follow me , if you please , gentlemen . 
it is possible to support without humiliation . 
On my part , I had been little more conciliating and yet I began to be sorry for this man , hired spy as I knew him to be . 
And we were scarce left alone ere I made haste to hang out a flag of truce . 
'My cousin , said I , 'trust me , you will not find me inclined to be your enemy . 
'Is it even so ? said he . 
Are you acquainted with the properties of the spine ? he asked with an insolence beyond qualification . 
'I am acquainted also with the properties of a pair of pistols , said I , toising him . 
'No , no , no ! says he , holding up his finger . 
'I will take my revenge how and when I please . 
At that moment he was interrupted by the tolling of a bell . 
As we stood surprised and listening , it was succeeded by the sound of many feet trooping up the stairs and shuffling by the door of our room . 
He led the way by a little crooked passage , which brought us out in the sick room , and behind the bed . 
I believe I have forgotten to remark that the Count's chamber was of considerable dimensions . 
My uncle , on the other hand , who was raised higher than I had yet seen him on his pillows , wore an air of really imposing gravity . 
No sooner had we appeared behind him , than he lifted his voice to a good loudness , and addressed the assemblage . 
Yves , my nephew of the younger line . 
I have also to explain the unusual trouble to which I have put you all and , since your supper was not over , I fear I may even say annoyance . 
It pleases me thus to put it out of his power and to stop the mouths of his false witnesses . 
I am infinitely obliged by your politeness , and I have the honour to wish you all a very good evening . 
He had borne this crushing public rebuke without change of countenance . 
He stood , now , very upright , with folded arms , and looking inscrutably at the roof of the apartment . 
I could not refuse him at that moment the tribute of my admiration . 
'My lord , said he , 'you are pleased to treat me in a manner which my gratitude , and your state , equally forbid me to call in question . 
It will be only necessary for me to call your attention to the length of time in which I have been taught to regard myself as your heir . 
In that position , I judged it only loyal to permit myself a certain scale of expenditure . 
If I am now to be cut off with a shilling as the reward of twenty years of service , I shall be left not only a beggar , but a bankrupt . 
Whether from the fatigue of his recent exertion , or by a well inspired ingenuity of hate , my uncle had once more closed his eyes nor did he open them now . 
There could be no mistake my uncle enjoyed the situation as he had enjoyed few things in the last quarter of a century . 
The fires of life scarce survived in that frail body but hatred , like some immortal quality , was still erect and unabated . 
'I speak at a disadvantage , he resumed . 
'My supplanter , with perhaps more wisdom than delicacy , remains in the room , and he cast a glance at me that might have withered an oak tree . 
I was only too willing to withdraw , and Romaine showed as much alacrity to make way for my departure . 
But my uncle was not to be moved . 
In the same breath of a voice , and still without opening his eyes , he bade me remain . 
'It is well , said Alain . 
'I cannot then go on to remind you of the twenty years that have passed over our heads in England , and the services I may have rendered you in that time . 
It would be a position too odious . 
Your lordship knows me too well to suppose I could stoop to such ignominy . 
My uncle , I implore your pity pardon me so far do not send me for life into a debtors' jail a pauper debtor . 
The blood leaped darkly into Alain's face . 
He turned to Romaine and me , and his eyes flashed . 
'It is your turn now , he said . 
'At least it shall be prison for prison with the two viscounts . 
'Not so , Mr. Alain , by your leave , said Romaine . 
'There are a few formalities to be considered first . 
But Alain was already striding towards the door . 
'Stop a moment , stop a moment ! cried Romaine . 
'Remember your own counsel not to despise an adversary . 
'If I do not despise I hate you ! he cried , giving a loose to his passion . 
'Be warned of that , both of you . 
'I understand you to threaten Monsieur le Vicomte Anne , said the lawyer . 
'Do you know , I would not do that . 
I am afraid , I am very much afraid , if you were to do as you propose , you might drive me into extremes . 
'You have made me a beggar and a bankrupt , said Alain . 
What extreme is left ? 'I scarce like to put a name upon it in this company , replied Romaine . 
'But there are worse things than even bankruptcy , and worse places than a debtors' jail . 
The words were so significantly said that there went a visible thrill through Alain sudden as a sword stroke , he fell pale again . 
'I do not understand you , said he . 
'O yes , you do , returned Romaine . 
'I believe you understand me very well . 
You must not suppose that all this time , while you were so very busy , others were entirely idle . 
You must not fancy , because I am an Englishman , that I have not the intelligence to pursue an inquiry . 
Great as is my regard for the honour of your house , M. Alain de St . 
Speech was denied him he carried his hand to his neckcloth he staggered I thought he must have fallen . 
'Hands off ! he somehow managed to articulate . 
Upon the least dubiety , I will take action . 
He snuffed , looking critically at the tortured man . 
'And now let me remind you that your chaise is at the door . 
This interview is agitating to his lordship it cannot be agreeable for you and I suggest that it need not be further drawn out . 
It does not enter into the views of your uncle , the Count , that you should again sleep under this roof . 
As Alain turned and passed without a word or a sign from the apartment , I instantly followed . 
At that moment I loathed both my uncle and the lawyer for their coldblooded cruelty . 
A moment later , and the echoes rang , and the air whistled in my ears , as he slammed the door on his departing footsteps . 
a measure of the turmoil of his passions . 
CHAPTER XX AFTER THE STORM NO sooner was the house clear of my cousin than I began to reckon up , ruefully enough , the probable results of what had passed . 
The first duty of heroics is to be of your own choosing . 
When they are not that , they are nothing . 
'Well ? said I. 'You have done it now ! 'Is he gone ? he asked . 
'He is gone , said I. 'We shall have the devil to pay with him when he comes back . 
'You are right , said the lawyer , 'and very little to pay him with but flams and fabrications , like to night's . 
'To night's ? I repeated . 
'Ay , to night's ! said he . 
'To night's WHAT ? I cried . 
'To night's flams and fabrications . 
But that it should be false also ! In what sense , dear sir ? I believe I was extremely offensive as I put the question , but the lawyer paid no heed . 
'False in all senses of the word , he replied seriously . 
How can I arrest him ? Your uncle burned the papers ! I told you so but doubtless you have forgotten the day I first saw you in Edinburgh Castle . 
How rich , time will tell . 
I am literally cast down . 
I feel myself quite helpless against your cousin . 
'Now , really ! I asked . 
There you see ! he is furious now , and I am quite helpless . 
'In truth it has been a singular business , and we are very fortunate to be out of it so well . 
He seemed to wake up to his ordinary briskness . 
'You see the point ? he began . 
'Why , true , said I 'I had not thought of that . 
To return we had here the elements of such a combustion as I dread to think of your cousin and the journal . 
Let him but glance an eye upon that column of print , and where were we ? It is easy to ask not so easy to answer , my young friend . 
And let me tell you , this sheet is the Viscount's usual reading . 
It is my conviction he had it in his pocket . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , said I. 'I have been unjust . 
I did not appreciate my danger . 
'I think you never do , said he . 
'But yet surely that public scene I began . 
I quite agree with you , Mr. Romaine interrupted . 
'But it was your uncle's orders , Mr. Anne , and what could I do ? Tell him you were the murderer of Goguelat ? I think not . 
'No , sure ! said I. 'That would but have been to make the trouble thicker . 
We were certainly in a very ill posture . 
'You do not yet appreciate how grave it was , he replied . 
'It was necessary for you that your cousin should go , and go at once . 
And that was the difficulty . 
'Pardon me , Mr. Romaine , but could not my uncle have bidden him go ? I asked . 
'Why , I see I must tell you that this is not so simple as it sounds , he replied . 
'You say this is your uncle's house , and so it is . 
But to all effects and purposes it is your cousin's also . 
We had a perfect right to bid him go , and he had a perfect right to reply , Yes , I will go , but not without my stays and cravats . 
And what should we have said to that ? 'By way of repartee ? I asked . 
'Two tall footmen and a pair of crabtree cudgels , I suggest . 
'The Lord deliver me from the wisdom of laymen ! cried Romaine . 
'Well , said I , 'I own myself an idiot . 
Well do they say , AN OLD SOLDIER , AN OLD INNOCENT ! For I guessed nothing of all this . 
'And , guessing it , have you the same objections to leave England ? he inquired . 
'The same , said I. 'It is indispensable , he objected . 
'And it cannot be , I replied . 
'Reason has nothing to say in the matter and I must not let you squander any of yours . 
It will be enough to tell you this is an affair of the heart . 
'Is it even so ? quoth Romaine , nodding his head . 
'And I might have been sure of it . 
Place them in a hospital , put them in a jail in yellow overalls , do what you will , young Jessamy finds young Jenny . 
O , have it your own way I am too old a hand to argue with young gentlemen who choose to fancy themselves in love I have too much experience , thank you . 
'No man could be warned more finely or with a greater eloquence . 
And I am of the same opinion still . 
Until I have again seen that lady , nothing shall induce me to quit Great Britain . 
I have besides And here I came to a full stop . 
It was upon my tongue to have told him the story of the drovers , but at the first word of it my voice died in my throat . 
There might be a limit to the lawyer's toleration , I reflected . 
'In short , sir , this is a matter of feeling , I concluded , 'and nothing will prevent my going to Edinburgh . 
If I had fired a pistol in his ear he could not have been more startled . 
'To Edinburgh ? he repeated . 
'Ay , certainly , a great deal in that . 
There is only one course which I could approve , and that were to escape to France instanter . 
'You do not wholly disapprove , at least ? I substituted . 
'Not wholly and it would not matter if I did , he replied . 
'Go your own way you are beyond argument . 
And I am not sure that you will run more danger by that course than by any other . 
Give the servants time to get to bed and fall asleep , then take a country cross road and walk , as the rhyme has it , like blazes all night . 
In the morning take a chaise or take the mail at pleasure , and continue your journey with all the decorum and reserve of which you shall be found capable . 
'I am taking the picture in , I said . 
'Tis the TOUT ENSEMBLE I must see the whole as opposed to the details . 
'Very judicious ! 'And , pardon me , but that is what it is , I exclaimed . 
I am not making a deception fit to last for thirty years I do not found a palace in the living granite for the night . 
This is a shelter tent a flying picture seen , admired , and gone again in the wink of an eye . 
Rowley is but another danger , said Romaine . 
'Rowley , said I , 'will pass as a servant from a distance as a creature seen poised on the dicky of a bowling chaise . 
a snuff box full of risk . 
You'll get it just as small with Rowley as with anybody else . 
And the long and short of it is , the lad's honest , he likes me , I trust him he is my servant , or nobody . 
'He might not accept , said Romaine . 
I tell you , he will be my servant , and I tell you , he will do well . 
I had crossed the room , and was already overhauling my wardrobe as I spoke . 
'Well , concluded the lawyer , with a shrug , 'one risk with another A GUERRE COMME A LA GUERRE , as you would say . 
Let the brat come and be useful , at least . 
And he was about to ring the bell , when his eye was caught by my researches in the wardrobe . 
'Do not fall in love with these coats , waistcoats , cravats , and other panoply and accoutrements by which you are now surrounded . 
You must not run the post as a dandy . 
It is not the fashion , even . 
'You are pleased to be facetious , sir , said I 'and not according to knowledge . 
This is the very fine art of dress . 
'I have practised it with success for fifty years , said Romaine , with a chuckle . 
'A black suit and a clean shirt is my infallible recipe . 
'You surprise me I did not think you would be shallow ! said I , lingering between two coats . 
'Pray , Mr. Romaine , have I your head ? or did you travel post and with a smartish servant ? 'Neither , I admit , said he . 
'Which change the whole problem , I continued . 
'I have to dress for a smartish servant and a Russia leather despatch box . 
That brought me to a stand . 
I came over and looked at the box with a moment's hesitation . 
'Yes , and for the despatch box ! It looks moneyed and landed it means I have a lawyer . 
It is an invaluable property . 
But I could have wished it to hold less money . 
'I am far from sure of that , cried I. 'In the first place , as a philosopher . 
This is the first time I have been at the head of a large sum , and it is conceivable who knows himself ? that I may make it fly . 
In the second place , as a fugitive . 
Who knows what I may need ? The whole of it may be inadequate . 
But I can always write for more . 
'You do not understand , he replied . 
'I break off all communication with you here and now . 
You must give me a power of attorney ere you start to night , and then be done with me trenchantly until better days . 
I believe I offered some objection . 
'Think a little for once of me ! said Romaine . 
'I must not have seen you before to night . 
'I am not even to write to you ? I said , a little bewildered . 
'I believe I am cutting the last strand that connects you with common sense , he replied . 
'But that is the plain English of it . 
You are not even to write and if you did , I would not answer . 
'A letter , however I began . 
'Listen to me , interrupted Romaine . 
'The devil ! said I , for I began suddenly to see that this might put me out of the way of my business . 
'What is it now ? says he . 
'There will be more to be done , then , before we can part , I answered . 
'I give you the whole night , said he . 
'So long as you are off ere daybreak , I am content . 
I would be obliged for a letter of introduction to one of your own cloth in Edinburgh an old man for choice , very experienced , very respectable , and very secret . 
Could you favour me with such a letter ? 'Why , no , said he . 
I will do no such thing , indeed . 
'It would be a great favour , sir , I pleaded . 
'It would be an unpardonable blunder , he replied . 
'What ? Give you a letter of introduction ? and when the police come , I suppose , I must forget the circumstance ? No , indeed . 
Talk of it no more . 
'You seem to be always in the right , said I. 'The letter would be out of the question , I quite see that . 
'What is this business ? said Romaine . 
'I have not said that I had any , I replied . 
This is only a possibility that I must keep in view . 
Here is something that will serve you for an introduction , and cannot compromise me . 
And he wrote his name and the Edinburgh lawyer's address on a piece of card and tossed it to me . 
A little wet snow kept sleepily falling , pausing , and falling again it seemed perpetually beginning to snow and perpetually leaving off and the darkness was intense . 
Time and again we walked into trees time and again found ourselves adrift among garden borders or stuck like a ram in the thicket . 
Rowley had possessed himself of the matches , and he was neither to be terrified nor softened . 
'No , I will not , Mr. Anne , sir , he would reply . 
'You know he tell me to wait till we were over the 'ill . 
It's only a little way now . 
Why , and I thought you was a soldier , too ! I was at least a very glad soldier when my valet consented at last to kindle a thieves' match . 
From this , we easily lit the lantern and thenceforward , through a labyrinth of woodland paths , were conducted by its uneasy glimmer . 
We issued at last upon a country by road where we might walk abreast and without precaution . 
I gave the order to march at ease . 
'Now , Rowley , said I , 'so far so good . 
You have come , in the most obliging manner in the world , to carry these valises . 
The question is , what next ? What are we to do at Aylesbury ? or , more particularly , what are you ? Thence , I go on a journey . 
Are you to accompany me ? He gave a little chuckle . 
'That's all settled already , Mr. Anne , sir , he replied . 
'Why , I've got my things here in the valise a half a dozen shirts and what not I'm all ready , sir just you lead on YOU'LL see . 
'The devil you have ! said I. 'You made pretty sure of your welcome . 
'If you please , sir , said Rowley . 
He looked up at me , in the light of the lantern , with a boyish shyness and triumph that awoke my conscience . 
'No , no , said I 'you may think you have made a choice , but it was blindfold , and you must make it over again . 
The Count's service is a good one what are you leaving it for ? Are you not throwing away the substance for the shadow ? No , do not answer me yet . 
As I said the words , I came to a full stop and held up the lantern to his face . 
I had never seen a face so predestined to be astonished , or so susceptible of rendering the emotion of surprise and it tempted me as an open piano tempts the musician . 
'Nothing of the sort , Rowley , I continued , in a churchyard voice . 
'These are appearances , petty appearances . 
I am in peril , homeless , hunted . 
I count scarce any one in England who is not my enemy . 
From this hour I drop my name , my title I become nameless my name is proscribed . 
My liberty , my life , hang by a hair . 
His face had been hitherto beyond expectation , passing from one depth to another of tragic astonishment , and really worth paying to see but at this it suddenly cleared . 
'Oh , I ain't afraid ! he said and then , choking into laughter , 'why , I see it from the first ! I could have beaten him . 
But I had so grossly overshot the mark that I suppose it took me two good miles of road and half an hour of elocution to persuade him I had been in earnest . 
This was far from my views when I began and it is a common complaint of me that I have a long tongue . 
I believe it is a fault beloved by fortune . 
To the beginnings of virile common sense he adds the last lights of the child's imagination and he can fling himself into business with that superior earnestness that properly belongs to play . 
And Rowley was a boy made to my hand . 
He had a high sense of romance , and a secret cultus for all soldiers and criminals . 
You can imagine how his new prospects brightened on a boy of this disposition . 
We arranged the terms of our campaign , trudging amicably in the snow , which now , with the approach of morning , began to fall to purpose . 
I chose the name of Ramornie , I imagine from its likeness to Romaine Rowley , from an irresistible conversion of ideas , I dubbed Gammon . 
'I say , wouldn't it look queer if you and me was to come to the post house with all this luggage ? said Rowley . 
'I dare say , I replied . 
'But what else is to be done ? 'Well , now , sir you hear me , says Rowley . 
'I think it would look more natural like if you was to come to the post house alone , and with nothing in your 'ands more like a gentleman , you know . 
And you might say that your servant and baggage was a waiting for you up the road . 
I think I could manage , somehow , to make a shift with all them dratted things leastways if you was to give me a 'and up with them at the start . 
'And I would see you far enough before I allowed you to try , Mr. Rowley ! I cried . 
'Why , you would be quite defenceless ! A footpad that was an infant child could rob you . 
And I should probably come driving by to find you in a ditch with your throat cut . 
But there is something in your idea , for all that and I propose we put it in execution no farther forward than the next corner of a lane . 
It was snowing to purpose , the country all white , and ourselves walking snowdrifts , when the first glimmer of the morning showed us an inn upon the highwayside . 
There was an accumulation of gigs and chaises in the yard , and a great bustle going forward in the coffee room and about the doors of the inn . 
On my making my modest request , he awoke from his indifference into what seemed passion . 
'A po' shay and 'osses ! he cried . 
'Do I look as if I 'ad a po' shay and 'osses ? Damn me , if I 'ave such a thing on the premises . 
I don't MAKE 'osses and chaises I 'IRE 'em . 
You might be God Almighty ! said he and instantly , as if he had observed me for the first time , he broke off , and lowered his voice into the confidential . 
'Why , now that I see you are a gentleman , said he , 'I'll tell you what ! If you like to BUY , I have the article to fit you . 
Second 'and shay by Lycett , of London . 
Latest style good as new . 
The body was painted a dark claret , and the wheels an invisible green . 
The lamp and glasses were bright as silver and the whole equipage had an air of privacy and reserve that seemed to repel inquiry and disarm suspicion . 
With a servant like Rowley , and a chaise like this , I felt that I could go from the Land's End to John o' Groat's House amid a population of bowing ostlers . 
And I suppose I betrayed in my manner the degree in which the bargain tempted me . 
What time do you want her at the door ? 'Horses and all ? said I. ''Osses and all ! says he . 
'One good turn deserves another . 
You give me seventy pound for the shay , and I'll 'oss it for you . 
I told you I didn't MAKE 'osses but I CAN make 'em , to oblige a friend . 
And by any other it appeared that I should have to wait . 
I leaned forward with a lively curiosity and the next moment I had blotted myself behind the teapot . 
The popular traveller had turned to wave a farewell and behold ! he was no other than my cousin Alain . 
It was a change of the sharpest from the angry , pallid man I had seen at Amersham Place . 
He reminded me at once of a royal duke , or an actor turned a little elderly , and of a blatant bagman who should have been the illegitimate son of a gentleman . 
A moment after he was gliding noiselessly on the road to London . 
'Waiter ! said I , 'that was the nephew of Count Carwell that just drove off , wasn't it ? 'Yes , sir Viscount Carwell we calls him , he replied . 
'Ah , I thought as much , said I. 'Well , well , damn all these Frenchmen , say I ! 'You may say so indeed , sir , said the waiter . 
'They ain't not to say in the same field with our 'ome raised gentry . 
'Nasty tempers ? I suggested . 
'Beas'ly temper , sir , the Viscount 'ave , said the waiter with feeling . 
'Why , no longer agone than this morning , he was sitting breakfasting and reading in his paper . 
I suppose , sir , he come on some pilitical information , or it might be about 'orses , but he raps his 'and upon the table sudden and calls for curacoa . 
It gave me quite a turn , it did he did it that sudden and 'ard . 
Now , sir , that may be manners in France , but hall I can say is , that I'm not used to it . 
'Reading the paper , was he ? said I. 'What paper , eh ? 'Here it is , sir , exclaimed the waiter . 
'Seems like as if he'd dropped it . 
And picking it off the floor he presented it to me . 
I may say that I was quite prepared , that I already knew what to expect but at sight of the cold print my heart stopped beating . 
There it was the fulfilment of Romaine's apprehension was before me the paper was laid open at the capture of Clausel . 
I felt as if I could take a little curacoa myself , but on second thoughts called for brandy . 
CHAPTER XXII CHARACTER AND ACQUIREMENTS OF MR . 
ROWLEY I AM not certain that I had ever really appreciated before that hour the extreme peril of the adventure on which I was embarked . 
I believe it came to a near touch whether I should not turn the horses' heads at the next stage and make directly for the coast . 
It is not that I thought any the less , or any the less warmly , of Flora . 
As for Sim and Candlish , I doubt if they crossed my mind . 
At the Green Dragon Rowley was waiting on the doorsteps with the luggage , and really was bursting with unpalatable conversation . 
'Who do you think we've 'ad 'ere , sir ? he began breathlessly , as the chaise drove off . 
'Red Breasts' and he nodded his head portentously . 
'Red Breasts ? I repeated , for I stupidly did not understand at the moment an expression I had often heard . 
Two on' em , and one was Lavender himself ! I hear the other say quite plain , Now , Mr. Lavender , IF you're ready . 
They was breakfasting as nigh me as I am to that postboy . 
They're all right they ain't after us . 
'Yes , Mr. Ramornie , says he , touching his hat . 
'Begging your pardon , Mr. Ramornie . 
But I've been very piticular , sir , up to now and you may trust me to be very piticular in the future . 
It were only a slip , sir . 
'My good boy , said I , with the most imposing severity , 'there must be no slips . 
Be so good as to remember that my life is at stake . 
I did not embrace the occasion of telling him how many I had made myself . 
It is my principle that an officer must never be wrong . 
With fools and children , which included Rowley , the necessity was even greater . 
I proposed to myself to be infallible and even when he expressed some wonder at the purchase of the claret coloured chaise , I put him promptly in his place . 
If I had paid seventy pounds to get the thing , I should not have stuck at seven hundred to be safely rid of it . 
In the inns , I was afraid to go to dinner and afraid to go to sleep . 
When I walked up a hill I durst not leave the doors of the claret coloured chaise . 
Little he cared ! All was one to him so long as he was amused , and I never knew any one amused more easily . 
He was thrillingly interested in life , travel , and his own melodramatic position . 
it occasionally wearied me to be obliged to share . 
I can look at horses , and I can look at trees too , although not fond of it . 
His cackle was indeed almost continuous , but it was never unamiable . 
He showed an amiable curiosity when he was asking questions an amiable guilelessness when he was conferring information . 
And both he did largely . 
A general design to mould himself upon my example became early apparent , and I had not the heart to check it . 
One day it came out by chance that I was of the Catholic religion . 
He became plunged in thought , at which I was gently glad . 
Then suddenly 'Odd rabbit it ! I'll be Catholic too ! he broke out . 
'You must teach me it , Mr. Anne I mean , Ramornie . 
I wish to take my chances with my own people , and so should you . 
If it is a question of going to hell , go to hell like a gentleman with your ancestors . 
'Well , it wasn't that , he admitted . 
'I don't know that I was exactly thinking of hell . 
Then there's the inquisition , too . 
That's rather a cawker , you know . 
'And I don't believe you were thinking of anything in the world , said I which put a period to his respectable conversion . 
He consoled himself by playing for awhile on a cheap flageolet , which was one of his diversions , and to which I owed many intervals of peace . 
When he first produced it , in the joints , from his pocket , he had the duplicity to ask me if I played upon it . 
I answered , no and he put the instrument away with a sigh and the remark that he had thought I might . 
For some while he resisted the unspeakable temptation , his fingers visibly itching and twittering about his pocket , even his interest in the landscape and in sporadic anecdote entirely lost . 
Presently the pipe was in his hands again he fitted , unfitted , refitted , and played upon it in dumb show for some time . 
'I play it myself a little , says he . 
'Do you ? said I , and yawned . 
And then he broke down . 
Ramornie , if you please , would it disturb you , sir , if I was to play a chune ? he pleaded . 
And from that hour , the tootling of the flageolet cheered our way . 
He was particularly keen on the details of battles , single combats , incidents of scouting parties , and the like . 
These he would make haste to cap with some of the exploits of Wallace , the only hero with whom he had the least acquaintance . 
His enthusiasm was genuine and pretty . 
When he learned we were going to Scotland , 'Well , then , he broke out , 'I'll see where Wallace lived ! And presently after , he fell to moralising . 
'It's a strange thing , sir , he began , 'that I seem somehow to have always the wrong sow by the ear . 
I'm English after all , and I glory in it . 
'Rowley , I said , 'you need have no fear . 
By how much I love my own honour , by so much I will take care to protect yours . 
We are but fraternising at the outposts , as soldiers do . 
His words continued to ring in my hearing . 
there was no sleep for me in my bed . 
I remembered France and my Emperor , now depending on the arbitrament of war , bent down , fighting on their knees and with their teeth against so many and such various assailants . 
I remembered that I belonged to France . 
When I saw how it was I did not lose time in indecision . 
The old classical conflict of love and honour being once fairly before me , it did not cost me a thought . 
Sure enough there was my errand ! As a private person I was neither French nor English I was something else first a loyal gentleman , an honest man . 
Sim and Candlish must not be left to pay the penalty of my unfortunate blow . 
They held my honour tacitly pledged to succour them and it is a sort of stoical refinement entirely foreign to my nature to set the political obligation above the personal and private . 
If France fell in the interval for the lack of Anne de St . 
For twopence I could have gone farther and taken four horses so extreme was my haste , running as I was before the terrors of an awakened conscience . 
But I feared to be conspicuous . 
Even as it was , we attracted only too much attention , with our pair and that white elephant , the seventy pounds worth of claret coloured chaise . 
Meanwhile I was ashamed to look Rowley in the face . 
He would hear the same word twenty times with profound refreshment , mispronounce it in several different ways , and forget it again with magical celerity . 
Say it happened to be STIRRUP . 
'No , I don't seem to remember that word , Mr. Anne , he would say 'it don't seem to stick to me , that word don't . 
And then , when I had told it him again , 'ETRIER ! he would cry . 
'To be sure ! I had it on the tip of my tongue . 
'What will I remember it by , now ? Why , INTERIOR , to be sure ! I'll remember it by its being something that ain't in the interior of a horse . 
He was never a hair discouraged . 
He seemed to consider that he was covering the ground at a normal rate . 
He came up smiling day after day . 
'Now , sir , shall we do our French ? he would say and I would put questions , and elicit copious commentary and explanation , but never the shadow of an answer . 
My hands fell to my sides I could have wept to hear him . 
By a thousand indications I could judge that I was again drawing near to Scotland . 
I saw it written in the face of the hills , in the growth of the trees , and in the glint of the waterbrooks that kept the high road company . 
It might have occurred to me , also , that I was , at the same time , approaching a place of some fame in Britain Gretna Green . 
'Morning breezes ! here's a smash ! cried Rowley , pocketing his flageolet in the middle of the TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND . 
I have said they were man and woman . 
I should have said man and child . 
There was no doubt about the case I saw it all . 
As I alighted they both paused with that unmistakable air of being interrupted in a scene . 
I uncovered to the lady and placed my services at their disposal . 
It was the man who answered . 
'There's no use in shamming , sir , said he . 
'This lady and I have run away , and her father's after us road to Gretna , sir . 
'The father is no doubt very much incensed ? I pursued civilly . 
'O God ! cried the hawbuck . 
'In short , you see , we must get out of this . 
'I confess it seems cool , I replied . 
'What's that you say , sir ? he snapped . 
'I was agreeing with you , said I. 'Yes , it does seem cool and what is more to the point , it seems unnecessary . 
This thing can be arranged in a more satisfactory manner otherwise , I think . 
You can doubtless ride ? This opened a door on the matter of their previous dispute , and the fellow appeared life sized in his true colours . 
'That's what I've been telling her that , damn her ! she must ride ! he broke out . 
'No , sir , said I 'the lady shall not . 
He turned on me raging . 
'And who are you to interfere ? he roared . 
'There is here no question of who I am , I replied . 
'I may be the devil or the Archbishop of Canterbury for what you know , or need know . 
The point is that I can help you it appears that nobody else can and I will tell you how I propose to do it . 
I will give the lady a seat in my chaise , if you will return the compliment by allowing my servant to ride one of your horses . 
I thought he would have sprung at my throat . 
'You have always the alternative before you to wait here for the arrival of papa , I added . 
He cast another haggard look down the road , and capitulated . 
'I am sure , sir , the lady is very much obliged to you , he said , with an ill grace . 
It was plain I was supposed by all to have done a very dashing act , and ravished the bride from the ravisher . 
In the meantime I stole a look at the little lady . 
She was in a state of pitiable discomposure , and her arms shook on her lap in her black lace mittens . 
'But I will tell you something about myself which ought to do as well , and to set that little heart at rest in my society . 
'She would never forget female decorum nor make the terrible ERRATUM I've done ! And at this she lifted up her voice and wept . 
'I am certain it must have been judicial blindness , she sobbed . 
'I can't think how I didn't see it , but I didn't and he isn't , is he ? And then a curtain rose . 
'Madam , said I , 'a gentleman . 
'That's what I mean a gentleman , she exclaimed . 
'And he and that HE isn't . 
'O , not so bad as that ! I cried . 
'Come , come , you exaggerate , my dear Miss ? Excuse me if I am too familiar I have not yet heard your name . 
I am not writing my eulogium for the Academy I will admit it was unpardonably imbecile , but I told it her . 
She repeated it after me . 
'I shall pray for you all my life , she said . 
'Every night , when I retire to rest , the last thing I shall do is to remember you by name . 
'And there is nothing to be done ! she wailed in conclusion . 
'My error is irretrievable , I am quite forced to that conclusion . 
'Not in the least , ma'am , I replied . 
'The simplest thing in life . 
We are in a civilised country the man's a malefactor 'O , never ! she cried . 
'Do not even dream it ! With all his faults , I know he is not THAT . 
I showed him the king's medallion . 
'Take the lady there , and at full gallop , I cried . 
'Right , sir ! Mind yourself , says the postillion . 
And before I could have thought it possible , he had turned the carriage to the rightabout and we were galloping south . 
Tally ho ! 'Stop , thief ! 'A highwayman ! A highwayman ! It was otherguess work with Bellamy . 
As he approached I saw that his face was deadly white and that he carried a drawn pistol in his hand . 
'O , O , don't let him kill me ! she screamed . 
'Never fear , I replied . 
Her face was distorted with terror . 
Her hands took hold upon me with the instinctive clutch of an infant . 
The chaise gave a flying lurch , which took the feet from under me and tumbled us anyhow upon the seat . 
And almost in the same moment the head of Bellamy appeared in the window which Missy had left free for him . 
Conceive the situation ! The little lady and I were falling or had just fallen backward on the seat , and offered to the eye a somewhat ambiguous picture . 
The chaise was speeding at a furious pace , and with the most violent leaps and lurches , along the highway . 
She must dress it for me with her handkerchief , a service which she rendered me even with tears . 
I could well have spared them , not loving on the whole to be made ridiculous , and the injury being in the nature of a cat's scratch . 
Presently the residence of the archdeacon began to heave in sight . 
To give myself a countenance , as well as to have all ready for the road when I should find occasion , I turned to quit scores with Bellamy's two postillions . 
They had not the least claim on me , but one of which they were quite ignorant that I was a fugitive . 
It is the worst feature of that false position that every gratuity becomes a case of conscience . 
You must not leave behind you any one discontented nor any one grateful . 
It was plain it would have to be talked over in all the inn kitchens for thirty miles about , and likely for six months to come . 
My decision was hastily and nor wisely taken . 
for luck the other developing a sudden streak of piety , prayed God bless me with fervour . 
It seemed a demonstration was brewing , and I determined to be off at once . 
Bidding my own post boy and Rowley be in readiness for an immediate start , I reascended the terrace and presented myself , hat in hand , before Mr. Greensleeves and the archdeacon . 
And at these words the storm broke . 
'Small degree ! small degree , sir ! cries the father 'that shall not pass , Mr. St . 
Eaves ! If I've got my darling back , and none the worse for that vagabone rascal , I know whom I have to thank . 
The sentiments expressed were popular some ass , whom the devil moved to be my enemy , proposed three cheers , and they were given with a will . 
police handbills were already speeding after me at the rate of a hundred miles a day . 
Nor was that the end of it . 
While we were at sherry in the library , ale was handed round upon the terrace . 
'It weren't my fault this time . 
'It was one of those accidents that can never be foreseen , said I , affecting a dignity that I was far from feeling . 
'Which on 'em , Mr. Anne ? said the rascal . 
'That is a senseless question it can make no difference who it was , I returned . 
'No , nor that it can't ! cried Rowley . 
'He see you get in this morning under Mr. RAMORNIE I was very piticular to MR . 
It don't seem to me like as if the position was what you call STRATETEGIC ! 'PARRRBLEU ! will you let me be ! I cried . 
'I have to think you cannot imagine how your constant idiotic prattle annoys me . 
The which he did with what seemed to me to be irony . 
I took off my coat , and set to mending it , soldier fashion , with a needle and thread . 
There is nothing more conducive to thought , above all in arduous circumstances and as I sewed , I gradually gained a clearness upon my affairs . 
I must be done with the claret coloured chaise at once . 
It should be sold at the next stage for what it would bring . 
It was a heavy thought to me , as we drew up before the inn at Kirkby Lonsdale , that this scene was now to be enacted for the last time . 
Alas ! and had I known it , it was to go of with so inferior a grace ! I had been injudiciously liberal to the post boys of the chaise and four . 
My own post boy , he of the patched breeches , now stood before me , his eyes glittering with greed , his hand advanced . 
But these are always nice questions , to a foreigner above all a shade too little will suggest niggardliness , a shilling too much smells of hush money . 
'O , come , sir , you ain't going to fob me of with this ? Why , I seen fire at your side ! he cried . 
'Ave your own way of it , Mr. Ramornie leastways Mr. St . 
Eaves , or whatever your blessed name may be . 
Look 'ere' turning for sympathy to the stable boys 'this is a blessed business . 
Blessed 'ard , I calls it . 
'Rowley ! cried I reprovingly . 
Strictly it should have been Gammon but in the hurry of the moment , my fault passed unperceived . 
At the same time I caught the eye of the postmaster . 
He was long and lean , and brown and bilious he had the drooping nose of the humourist , and the quick attention of a man of parts . 
He read my embarrassment in a glance , stepped instantly forward , sent the post boy to the rightabout with half a word , and was back next moment at my side . 
'Dinner in a private room , sir ? Very well . 
John , No. ! What wine would you care to mention ? Very well , sir . 
Will you please to order fresh horses ? Not , sir ? Very well . 
I was in half a mind to have put off the whole business . 
Accordingly , as soon as I had done with dinner , I sent my compliments to the landlord and requested he should take a glass of wine with me . 
He came we exchanged the necessary civilities , and presently I approached my business . 
'By the bye , said I , 'we had a brush down the road to day . 
I dare say you may have heard of it ? He nodded . 
'And I was so unlucky as to get a pistol ball in the panel of my chaise , I continued , 'which makes it simply useless to me . 
General rule , people don't like chaises with bullet holes . 
'Too much ROMANCE OF THE FOREST ? I suggested , recalling my little friend of the morning , and what I was sure had been her favourite reading Mrs. Radcliffe's novels . 
'Just so , said he . 
'They may be right , they may be wrong I'm not the judge . 
But I suppose it's natural , after all , for respectable people to like things respectable about them not bullet holes , nor puddles of blood , nor men with aliases . 
I took a glass of wine and held it up to the light to show that my hand was steady . 
'Yes , said I , 'I suppose so . 
'You have papers , of course , showing you are the proper owner ? he inquired . 
'There is the bill , stamped and receipted , said I , tossing it across to him . 
'This all you have ? he asked . 
'It is enough , at least , said I. 'It shows you where I bought and what I paid for it . 
'Well , I don't know , he said . 
'You want some paper of identification . 
'To identify the chaise ? I inquired . 
'Not at all to identify YOU , said he . 
'That's all well and good but who's to prove to me that you are Mr. Ramornie ? 'Fellow ! cried I. 'O , fellow as much as you please ! said he . 
'Fellow , with all my heart ! That changes nothing . 
Take your choice if I'm not fine enough , I hope the magistrates are . 
'My good man , I stammered , for though I had found my voice , I could scarce be said to have recovered my wits , 'this is most unusual , most rude . 
Is it the custom in Westmorland that gentlemen should be insulted ? 'That depends , said he . 
'When it's suspected that gentlemen are spies it IS the custom and a good custom , too . 
No no , he broke out , perceiving me to make a movement . 
'Both hands upon the table , my gentleman ! I want no pistol balls in my chaise panels . 
'Surely , sir , you do me strange injustice ! said I , now the master of myself . 
'You see me sitting here , a monument of tranquillity pray may I help myself to wine without umbraging you ? I took this attitude in sheer despair . 
I had no plan , no hope . 
The best I could imagine was to spin the business out some minutes longer , then capitulate . 
At least , I would not capituatle one moment too soon . 
'Am I to take that for NO ? he asked . 
I have too much respect for my digestion , and too little curiosity in justices of the peace . 
He leaned forward , looked me nearly in the face , and reached out one hand to the bell rope . 
'See here , my fine fellow ! said he . 
'Do you see that bell rope ? Let me tell you , there's a boy waiting below one jingle , and he goes to fetch the constable . 
'Really , you know , I added , 'this is vastly entertaining . 
I assure you , I am looking on , with all the interest of a man of the world , at the development of your highly original character . 
He continued to study my face without speech , his hand still on the button of the bell rope , his eyes in mine this was the decisive heat . 
to degenerate into the grin of the man upon the rack . 
I was besides harassed with doubts . 
'Have you any objection to my putting my hands in my breeches pockets ? I inquired . 
'Excuse me mentioning it , but you showed yourself so extremely nervous a moment back . 
My voice was not all I could have wished , but it sufficed . 
I could hear it tremble , but the landlord apparently could not . 
He turned away and drew a long breath , and you may be sure I was quick to follow his example . 
'You're a cool hand at least , and that's the sort I like , said he . 
'Be you what you please , I'll deal square . 
I'll take the chaise for a hundred pound down , and throw the dinner in . 
'I beg your pardon , I cried , wholly mystified by this form of words . 
'You pay me a hundred down , he repeated , 'and I'll take the chaise . 
It's very little more than it cost , he added , with a grin , 'and you know you must get it off your hands somehow . 
I do not know when I have been better entertained than by this impudent proposal . 
It was broadly funny , and I suppose the least tempting offer in the world . 
For all that , it came very welcome , for it gave me the occasion to laugh . 
'You droll creature , you will be the death of me yet ! I cried , drying my eyes . 
My friend was now wholly disconcerted he knew not where to look , nor yet what to say and began for the first time to conceive it possible he was mistaken . 
'You seem rather to enjoy a laugh , sir , said he . 
'O , yes ! I am quite an original , I replied , and laughed again . 
For although hostilities were suspended , he was yet far from satisfied and I could read his continued suspicions in the cloudy eye that still hovered about my face . 
At last they took shape in words . 
'This is all very well , says he 'you carry it off well but for all that , I must do my duty . 
I had my strong effect in reserve it was to burn my ships with a vengeance ! I rose . 
'Leave the room , said I. 'This is insuperable . 
Is the man mad ? And then , as if already half ashamed of my passion 'I can take a joke as well as any one , I added 'but this passes measure . 
Send my servant and the bill . 
When he had left me alone , I considered my own valour with amazement . 
I had insulted him I had sent him away alone now , if ever , he would take what was the only sensible resource , and fetch the constable . 
But there was something instinctively treacherous about the man which shrank from plain courses . 
And , with all his cleverness , he missed the occasion of fame . 
I think this one of my great successes . 
I was exposed , unmasked , summoned to do a perfectly natural act , which must prove my doom and which I had not the slightest pretext for refusing . 
I kept my head , stuck to my guns , and , against all likelihood , here I was once more at liberty and in the king's highway . 
I took the lesson to heart , and promised myself in the future to be more reserved . 
It was none of my business to attend to broken chaises or shipwrecked travellers . 
I had my hands full of my own affairs and my best defence would be a little more natural selfishness and a trifle less imbecile good nature . 
CHAPTER XXV I MEET A CHEERFUL EXTRAVAGANT I PASS over the next fifty or sixty leagues of our journey without comment . 
The reader must be growing weary of scenes of travel and for my own part I have no cause to recall these particular miles with any pleasure . 
I was here upon my field of battle on the scene of my former captivity , escape and exploits and in the same city with my love . 
My heart expanded I have rarely felt more of a hero . 
All down the Bridges I sat by the driver with my arms folded and my face set , unflinchingly meeting every eye , and prepared every moment for a cry of recognition . 
to make myself conspicuous among the prisoners and I think it an extraordinary thing that I should have encountered so few to recognise me . 
After all , it was more likely that I should have recognised our visitors , than that they should have identified the modish gentleman with the miserable prisoner in the Castle . 
I was glad to set foot on the flagstones , and to escape from the crowd that had assembled to receive the mail . 
For I was resolved to break the chain of evidence for good , and to begin life afresh with a new character . 
The first step was to find lodgings , and to find them quickly . 
On the north side of St . 
James' Square I was so happy as to spy a bill in a third floor window . 
We were admitted by a very sour looking female in bombazine . 
She had a voice the most querulous I have ever heard , and with this she produced a whole regiment of difficulties and criticisms . 
She could not promise an attendance . 
'Well , madam , said I , 'and what is my servant for ? 'Him ? she asked . 
'Be gude to us ! Is HE your servant ? 'I am sorry , ma'am , he meets with your disapproval . 
'Na , I never said that . 
He'll be a great breaker , I'm thinkin' . 
Ay ! he'll be a great responsibeelity to ye , like . 
'Well , ma'am , said I , 'it seems we are never to hear the beginning of your terms , let alone the end of them . 
Come a good movement ! and let us be either off or on . 
She opened her lips slowly . 
'Ony raferences ? she inquired , in a voice like a bell . 
I opened my pocket book and showed her a handful of bank bills . 
'I think , madam , that these are unexceptionable , said I. 'Ye'll be wantin' breakfast late ? was her reply . 
'Madam , we want breakfast at whatever hour it suits you to give it , from four in the morning till four in the afternoon ! I cried . 
'Only tell us your figure , if your mouth be large enough to let it out ! 'I couldnae give ye supper the nicht , came the echo . 
'We shall go out to supper , you incorrigible female ! I vowed , between laughter and tears . 
'Here this is going to end ! I want you for a landlady let me tell you that ! and I am going to have my way . 
And presently she condescended on very moderate terms , and Rowley and I were able to escape in quest of supper . 
On our first arrival I had observed a place of entertainment not far off , in a street behind the Register House . 
Thither we found our way , and sat down to a late dinner alone . 
But we had scarce given our orders before the door opened , and a tall young fellow entered with something of a lurch , looked about him , and approached the same table . 
'Give you good evening , most grave and reverend seniors ! said he . 
He looked startled , and fixed a hazy eye on me , as he sat down . 
'A modest pot the seasonable quencher ? said he . 
'Well , I do not know but what I could look at a modest pot myself ! I am , for the moment , in precarious health . 
Much study hath heated my brain , much walking wearied my well , it seems to be more my eyes ! 'You have walked far , I dare say ? I suggested . 
'Not so much far as often , he replied . 
I have been doing a trot in that favoured quarter , favoured by art and nature . 
A few chosen comrades enemies of publicity and friends to wit and wine obliged me with their society . 
Along the cool , sequestered vale of Register Street we kept the uneven tenor of our way , sir . 
'It struck me , as you came in I began . 
'O , don't make any bones about it ! he interrupted . 
'Of course it struck you ! and let me tell you I was devilish lucky not to strike myself . 
When I entered this apartment I shone with all the pomp and prodigality of brandy and water , as the poet Gray has in another place expressed it . 
TEMULENTIA , QUOAD ME IPSUM , BREVIS COLLIGO EST . 
I sit and eat , sir , in a London fog . 
I am pleased to observe that , although not of an unmilitary bearing , you are apparently shaved . 
In my calendar of the virtues shaving comes next to drinking . 
A gentleman may be a low minded ruffian without sixpence , but he will always be close shaved . 
Stimulating thought ! I bleed , perhaps , but with medicable wounds . 
The stubble reaped , I pass out of my chamber , calm but triumphant . 
To employ a hackneyed phrase , I would not call Lord Wellington my uncle ! I , too , have dared , perhaps bled , before the imminent deadly shaving table . 
He told me his name , his address he begged we should meet again finally he proposed that I should dine with him in the country at an early date . 
'The dinner is official , he explained . 
One place is vacant , fascinating stranger , I offer it to you ! 'And who is your friend Icarus ? I asked , 'The aspiring son of Daedalus ! said he . 
'Is it possible that you have never heard the name of Byfield ? 'Possible and true , said I. 'And is fame so small a thing ? cried he . 
'Byfield , sir , is an aeronaut . 
As one of the gentry concerned I may be permitted to remark that I am unmoved . 
I care not a Tinker's Damn for his ascension . 
No more I breathe it in your ear does anybody else . 
The business is stale , sir , stale . 
Lunardi did it , and overdid it . 
A whimsical , fiddling , vain fellow , by all accounts for I was at that time rocking in my cradle . 
If Lunardi went up and came down , there was the matter settled . 
We prefer to grant the point . 
We do not want to see the experiment repeated AD NAUSEAM by Byfield , and Brown , and Butler , and Brodie , and Bottomley . 
Ah ! if they would go up and NOT come down again ! But this is by the question . 
Under the radiance of the kindly jar partiality might even credit him with wit . 
It will be seen afterwards that this was more my business than I thought it at the time . 
Indeed , I was impatient to be gone . 
CHAPTER XXVI THE COTTAGE AT NIGHT AT the door I was nearly blown back by the unbridled violence of the squall , and Rowley and I must shout our parting words . 
the wind hunted me behind and screamed in my ears . 
The city was flushed with bucketfuls of rain that tasted salt from the neighbouring ocean . 
It seemed to darken and lighten again in the vicissitudes of the gusts . 
By the time I had got to the corner of the Lothian Road there was a distinct improvement . 
The thought of what errand I was on re awoke within me , and I seemed to breast the rough weather with increasing ease . 
And the next moment I had recognised the inanity of that fool's paradise . 
If I could spy her taper as she went to bed , I might count myself lucky . 
I had about two leagues before me of a road mostly uphill , and now deep in mire . 
The wind continued to decline it had been but a squall , not a tempest . 
The rain , on the other hand , settled into a steady deluge , which had soon drenched me thoroughly . 
I continued to tramp forward in the night , contending with gloomy thoughts and accompanied by the dismal ululation of the dogs . 
What ailed them that they should have been thus wakeful , and perceived the small sound of my steps amid the general reverberation of the rain , was more than I could fancy . 
I remembered tales with which I had been entertained in childhood . 
'Was ever lady in this humour wooed ? I asked myself , and came near turning back . 
, I told myself there would certainly be another . 
Arrived in the cottage garden I found the circumstances mighty inclement . 
From the round holes in the shutters of the parlour , shafts of candle light streamed forth elsewhere the darkness was complete . 
The trees , the thickets , were saturated the lower parts of the garden turned into a morass . 
At intervals , when the wind broke forth again , there passed overhead a wild coil of clashing branches and between whiles the whole enclosure continuously and stridently resounded with the rain . 
I advanced close to the window and contrived to read the face of my watch . 
It was half past seven they would not retire before ten , they might not before midnight , and the prospect was unpleasant . 
And the next moment the clamour of a fresh squall broke out about the cottage the voice was drowned in its bellowing , and I was glad to retreat from my dangerous post . 
For three egregious hours I must now suffer the elements to do their worst upon me , and continue to hold my ground in patience . 
So strangely are we built so much more strong is the love of woman than the mere love of life . 
At last my patience was rewarded . 
The light disappeared from the parlour and reappeared a moment after in the room above . 
I was pretty well informed for the enterprise that lay before me . 
I knew the lair of the dragon that which was just illuminated . 
I knew the bower of my Rosamond , and how excellently it was placed on the ground level , round the flank of the cottage and out of earshot of her formidable aunt . 
Nothing was left but to apply my knowledge . 
for warmth , that I might walk to and fro unheard and keep myself from perishing . 
It seemed a grossness of which I was incapable to break up her reverie by speech . 
how the planes ran into each other , and were distinguished , and how the hues blended and varied , and were shaded off , between the cheek and neck . 
'Why does Miss Gilchrist sigh ? I whispered . 
'Does she recall absent friends ? She turned her head swiftly in my direction it was the only sign of surprise she deigned to make . 
At the same time I stepped into the light and bowed profoundly . 
'Here ? 'Yes , I am here , I replied . 
'I have come very far , it may be a hundred and fifty leagues , to see you . 
I have waited all this night in your garden . 
At the second it was withdrawn suddenly , methought with more of a start than she had hitherto displayed . 
I regained my former attitude , and we were both silent awhile . 
My timidity returned on me tenfold . 
I looked in her face for any signals of anger , and seeing her eyes to waver and fall aside from mine , augured that all was well . 
'You must have been mad to come here ! she broke out . 
'Of all places under heaven this is no place for you to come . 
And I was just thinking you were safe in France ! 'You were thinking of me ! I cried . 
Ives , you cannot understand your danger , she replied . 
'I am sure of it , and yet I cannot find it in my heart to tell you . 
O , be persuaded , and go ! 'I believe I know the worst . 
But I was never one to set an undue value on life , the life that we share with beasts . 
You appeal to my fears , and you do wrong . 
I have come to Scotland with my eyes quite open to see you and to speak with you it may be for the last time . 
'This country , even this garden , is death to you . 
They all believe it I am the only one that does not . 
If they hear you now , if they heard a whisper I dread to think of it . 
O , go , go this instant . 
I have all the world against me you are my only ally and as I have to speak , you have to listen . 
All is true that they say of me , and all of it false at the same time . 
I did kill this man Goguelat it was that you meant ? She mutely signed to me that it was she had become deadly pale . 
'But I killed him in fair fight . 
Till then , I had never taken a life unless in battle , which is my trade . 
The man Goguelat insulted her . 
I could never forgive myself if I had let it pass . 
And we fought , and he fell , and I have no remorse . 
I waited anxiously for some reply . 
The worst was now out , and I knew that she had heard of it before but it was impossible for me to go on with my narrative without some shadow of encouragement . 
'You blame me ? 'No , not at all . 
It is a point I cannot speak on I am only a girl . 
I am sure you were in the right I have always said so to Ronald . 
Not , of course , to my aunt . 
I am afraid I let her speak as she will . 
I was indignant with him . 
I said I dare say I said too much and I must say he was very good natured . 
He said , You and I , who are his friends , KNOW that Champdivers is innocent . 
But what is the use of saying it ? All this was in the corner of the room in what they call an aside . 
And then he said , Give me a chance to speak to you in private , I have much to tell you . 
And told me just what you did that it was an affair of honour , and no blame attached to you . 
O , I must say I like that Major Chevenix ! At this I was seized with a great pang of jealousy . 
All is fair in love and war . 
For all that , I was now no less anxious to do the speaking myself than I had been before to hear Flora . 
At least , I could keep clear of the hateful image of Major Chevenix . 
Accordingly I burst at once on the narrative of my adventures . 
It was the same as you have read , but briefer , and told with a very different purpose . 
Now every incident had a particular bearing , every by way branched off to Rome and that was Flora . 
When I had begun to speak I had kneeled upon the gravel withoutside the low window , rested my arms upon the sill , and lowered my voice to the most confidential whisper . 
Flora herself must kneel upon the other side , and this brought our heads upon a level with only the bars between us . 
For these spells are double edged . 
The silly birds may be charmed with the pipe of the fowler , which is but a tube of reeds . 
We make love , and thereby ourselves fall the deeper in it . 
It is with the heart only that one captures a heart . 
'And now , I continued , 'I will tell you what you can still do for me . 
I run a little risk just now , and you see for yourself how unavoidable it is for any man of honour . 
But if but in case of the worst I do not choose to enrich either my enemies or the Prince Regent . 
I have here the bulk of what my uncle gave me . 
Will you take care of it for me ? Do not think of it merely as money take and keep it as a relic of your friend or some precious piece of him . 
I may have bitter need of it ere long . 
In the sight of God , if you will have it , I give you my name , I endow you with my money . 
If the worst come , if I may never hope to call you wife , let me at least think that you will use my uncle's legacy as my widow . 
'No , not that , she said . 
'What then ? I said . 
'What else , my angel ? What are words to me ? There is but one name that I care to know you by . 
Flora , my love ! 'Anne ! she said . 
She did not shun my lips . 
My arms were wound round her body , which yielded itself generously to my embrace . 
We parted with a shock I sprang to my feet , and she to hers , as though we had been discovered . 
A moment after , but now both standing , we had again approached the window on either side . 
'Flora , I said , 'this is but a poor offer I can make you . 
She took my hand in hers and clasped it to her bosom . 
'Rich enough for a queen ! she said , with a lift in her breathing that was more eloquent than words . 
'Anne , my brave Anne ! I would be glad to be your maidservant I could envy that boy Rowley . 
But , no ! she broke off , 'I envy no one I need not I am yours . 
'Mine , said I , 'for ever ! By this and this , mine ! 'All of me , she repeated . 
'Altogether and forever ! And if the god were envious , he must have seen with mortification how little he could do to mar the happiness of mortals . 
I stood in a mere waterspout she herself was wet , not from my embrace only , but from the splashing of the storm . 
The candles had guttered out we were in darkness . 
I could scarce see anything but the shining of her eyes in the dark room . 
To her I must have appeared as a silhouette , haloed by rain and the spouting of the ancient Gothic gutter above my head . 
It seemed he was an enthusiastic antiquary , and in particular a fanatic of heraldry . 
I gave her my money it was , of course , only paper I had brought . 
I gave it her , to be her marriage portion , I declared . 
'Not so bad a marriage portion for a private soldier , I told her , laughing , as I passed it through the bars . 
'O , Anne , and where am I to keep it ? she cried . 
'If my aunt should find it ! What would I say ! 'Next your heart , I suggested . 
'Then you will always be near your treasure , she cried , 'for you are always there ! We were interrupted by a sudden clearness that fell upon the night . 
The clouds dispersed the stars shone in every part of the heavens and , consulting my watch , I was startled to find it already hard on five in the morning . 
CHAPTER XXVII THE SABBATH DAY IT was indeed high time I should be gone from Swanston but what I was to do in the meanwhile was another question . 
Rowley had received his orders last night he was to say that I had met a friend , and Mrs. McRankine was not to expect me before morning . 
A good enough tale in itself but the dreadful pickle I was in made it out of the question . 
I could not go home till I had found harbourage , a fire to dry my clothes at , and a bed where I might lie till they were ready . 
I had scarce got to the top of the first hill when I spied a light on my left , about a furlong away . 
It might be a case of sickness what else it was likely to be in so rustic a neighbourhood , and at such an ungodly time of the morning was beyond my fancy . 
Porter Ales , and British Spirits . 
My first knock put a period to the music , and a voice challenged tipsily from within . 
'Who goes there ? it said and I replied , 'A lawful traveller . 
carrying a tallow candle , from which he impartially bedewed the clothes of the whole company . 
As soon as I saw them I could not help smiling to myself to remember the anxiety with which I had approached . 
At this I could have laughed , but the moment seemed ill chosen . 
But the Six Footers , if they were very drunk , proved no less kind . 
The landlord and servants of the Hunters' Tryst were in bed and asleep long ago . 
At last a bed was found for me , my clothes were hung out to dry before the parlour fire , and I was mercifully left to my repose . 
I awoke about nine with the sun shining in my eyes . 
I came on a barn door , and , looking in , saw all the red face mixed in the straw like plums in a cake . 
I dinna see wha's to get the creish off that ! she added , with a sigh in which , identifying Forbes as the torch bearer , I mentally joined . 
I had plenty to think of , plenty to be grateful for , that gallant morning and yet I had a twitter at my heart . 
Hard by Merchiston I was so fortunate as to observe a bulky gentleman in broadcloth and gaiters , stooping with his head almost between his knees , before a stone wall . 
Seizing occasion by the forelock , I drew up as I came alongside and inquired what he had found to interest him . 
He turned upon me a countenance not much less broad than his back . 
The stone , which had been built sideways into the wall , offered traces of heraldic sculpture . 
In these degenerate days I am astonished you should display so much proficiency . 
God forbid I should delude you into thinking me a herald , sir ! I am only an ungrammatical amateur . 
'And a little modesty does no harm even in a herald , says my new acquaintance graciously . 
The shops were closed , no vehicle ran , cats sported in the midst of the sunny causeway and our steps and voices re echoed from the quiet houses . 
There are few religious ceremonies more imposing . 
'Ah ! said my companion , 'there are the bells ! Now , sir , as you are a stranger I must offer you the hospitality of my pew . 
I do not know whether you are at all used with our Scottish form but in case you are not I will find your places for you and Dr . 
Henry Gray , of St . 
, is as good a preacher as we have to show you . 
This put me in a quandary . 
It was a degree of risk I was scarce prepared for . 
An unlucky turn of the head would suffice to arrest their attention . 
However , my mind was made up I thanked my obliging friend , and placed myself at his disposal . 
So soon as we were clear of the crowd 'Mr . 
Robbie ? said I , bowing . 
'The very same , sir , said he . 
'If I mistake not , a lawyer ? 'A writer to His Majesty's Signet , at your service . 
'It seems we were predestined to be acquaintances ! I exclaimed . 
'I have here a card in my pocket intended for you . 
It is from my family lawyer . 
It was his last word , as I was leaving , to ask to be remembered kindly , and to trust you would pass over so informal an introduction . 
And I offered him the card . 
'Ay , ay , my old friend Daniel ! says he , looking on the card . 
'And how does my old friend Daniel ? I gave a favourable view of Mr. Romaine's health . 
'Well , this is certainly a whimsical incident , he continued . 
'And since we are thus met already and so much to my advantage ! the simplest thing will be to prosecute the acquaintance instantly . 
'I beg your pardon , sir do I understand you to invite me to your house ? said I. 'That was the idea I was trying to convey , said he . 
'We have the name of hospitable people up here , and I would like you to try mine . 
Robbie , I shall hope to try it some day , but not yet , I replied . 
'I hope you will not misunderstand me . 
My business , which brings me to your city , is of a peculiar kind . 
Till you shall have heard it , and , indeed , till its issue is known , I should feel as if I had stolen your invitation . 
I must eat alone a very pernicious thing for a person of my habit of body , content myself with a pint of skinking claret , and meditate the discourse . 
But about this business of yours if it is so particular as all that , it will doubtless admit of no delay . 
'I must confess , sir , it presses , I acknowledged . 
, that you will sit down with me to the postponed meal , not forgetting the bottle . 
You have my address ? he added , and gave it me which was the only thing I wanted . 
As a matter of fact he was squiring her , with the utmost dignity , on his arm and I followed them up the stairs , smiling to myself . 
Both were quick to salute me as soon as I was perceived , and Mrs. McRankine inquired where I had been . 
I told her boastfully , giving her the name of the church and the divine , and ignorantly supposing I should have gained caste . 
But she soon opened my eyes . 
The sound she made was unmistakable in meaning , though it was impossible to be written down and I at once executed the manoeuvre I have recommended . 
But she was not to be pacified at the moment , and departed to her own quarters murmuring . 
'Well , Rowley , said I 'and have you been to church ? 'If you please , sir , he said . 
'Well , you have not been any less unlucky than I have , I returned . 
'And how did you get on with the Scottish form ? 'Well , sir , it was pretty 'ard , the form was , and reether narrow , he replied . 
W'y , she was down on me like a 'undredweight of bricks this morning . 
You see , last night she 'ad me in to supper , and , I beg your pardon , sir , but I took the freedom of playing her a chune or two . 
See and don't quarrel with Mrs. McRankine and , above all , don't argue with her , or you'll get the worst of it . 
Whatever she says , touch your forelock and say , If you please ! or I beg pardon , ma'am . 
And let me tell you one thing I am sorry , but you have to go to church with her again this afternoon . 
I was beginning to grow accustomed to the risks of my stay in Edinburgh , and it even amused me to confront a new churchful . 
I confess the amusement did not last until the end for if Dr . 
, where it had not the tonic quality of personal insult , rather inclined me to slumber . 
But I braced myself for my life , kept up Rowley with the end of a pin , and came through it awake , but no more . 
Bethiah was quite conquered by this 'mark of grace , though , I am afraid , she was also moved by more worldly considerations . 
handed on to Rowley , and at each fresh attention stole a little glance about the church to make sure she was observed . 
Rowley was a pretty boy you will pardon me if I also remembered that I was a favourable looking young man . 
I defy you to see or think of them and not smile with an infinite and intimate , but quite impersonal , pleasure . 
Well , either I know nothing of women , or that was the case with Bethiah McRankine . 
These were sentiments to be encouraged and , on the way home from church if church it could be called I adopted a most insidious device to magnify her interest . 
'Is she bonny ? she inquired . 
I gave her full assurances upon that . 
'To what denoamination does she beloang ? came next , and was so unexpected as almost to deprive me of breath . 
'Upon my word , ma'am , I have never inquired , cried I 'I only know that she is a heartfelt Christian , and that is enough . 
'Ay ! she sighed , 'if she has the root of the maitter ! There's a remnant practically in most of the denoaminations . 
There's some in the McGlashanites , and some in the Glassites , and mony in the McMillanites , and there's a leeven even in the Estayblishment . 
'I have known some very good Papists even , if you go to that , said I. 'Mr . 
Ducie , think shame to yoursel' ! she cried . 
'Why , my dear madam ! I only I began . 
'You shouldnae jest in sairious maitters , she interrupted . 
He greeted me like an old friend . 
'Come away , sir , come away ! said he . 
'Here is the dentist ready for you , and I think I can promise you that the operation will be practically painless . 
'I am not so sure of that , Mr. Robbie , I replied , as I shook hands with him . 
'But at least there shall be no time lost with me . 
All this I gave him first of all , to be done with the worst of it and all this he took with gravity , but without the least appearance of surprise . 
I hope , sir , that I am as little anxious to be Quixotic , as I am determined to be just . 
'Very fairly spoken , said Mr. Robbie . 
'It is not much in my line , as doubtless your friend , Mr. Romaine , will have told you . 
I rarely mix myself up with anything on the criminal side , or approaching it . 
However , for a young gentleman like you , I may stretch a point , and I dare say I may be able to accomplish more than perhaps another . 
I will go at once to the Procurator Fiscal's office and inquire . 
'Wait a moment , Mr. Robbie , said I. 'You forget the chapter of expenses . 
I had thought , for a beginning , of placing a thousand pounds in your hands . 
'My dear sir , you will kindly wait until I render you my bill , said Mr. Robbie severely . 
'And yet , Mr. Robbie , I continued , 'I must ask you to allow me to proceed . 
I do not merely refer to the expenses of the case . 
I have my eye besides on Todd and Candlish . 
They are thoroughly deserving fellows they have been subjected through me to a considerable term of imprisonment and I suggest , sir , that you should not spare money for their indemnification . 
This will explain , I added smiling , 'my offer of the thousand pounds . 
It was in the nature of a measure by which you should judge the scale on which I can afford to have this business carried through . 
'I take you perfectly , Mr. Ducie , said he . 
'But the sooner I am off , the better this affair is like to be guided . 
My clerk will show you into the waiting room and give you the day's CALEDONIAN MERCURY and the last REGISTER to amuse yourself with in the interval . 
I believe Mr. Robbie was at least three hours gone . 
For some time he had the inhumanity to read me a lecture as to the incredible silliness , 'not to say immorality , of my behaviour . 
Ivey , as I believe I should now call you . 
You may believe I soon laughed him out of that ! And I had the satisfaction of seeing your two friends set free , and very glad to be on the causeway again . 
'Oh , sir , I cried , 'you should have brought them here . 
'No instructions , Mr. Ducie ! said he . 
Weel , says he , I aye said he was a gentleman ! Man , Todd , said I , that was just what Mr St . 
Ivey said of yourself ! 'So it was a case of Compliments fly when gentlefolk meet . 
your appearance so completely fit you . 
And the first of these , quoth he , looking at his watch , 'will be to step through to my dining room and share a bachelor's luncheon . 
Over the meal , which was good , Mr. Robbie continued to develop the same theme . 
'You're , no doubt , what they call a dancing man ? said he . 
'Well , on Thursday night there is the Assembly Ball . 
You must certainly go there , and you must permit me besides to do the honours of the ceety and send you a ticket . 
I think I can show you one or two that are worth looking at , and you can dance with them later on at the Assembly . 
He proceeded to give me a sketch of one or two eligible young ladies' whom I might expect to meet . 
'And then there's my parteecular friend , Miss Flora , said he . 
'But I'll make no attempt of a description . 
You shall see her for yourself . 
The toilette , I have reason to believe , was a success . 
'Ay , Mr. Ducie , this is a poor employment for a wayfaring Christian man ! she said . 
And if it's the lassie ye're gaun to see the nicht , I suppose I'll just have to excuse ye ! Bairns maun be bairns ! she said , with a sigh . 
'I mind when Mr. McRankine came courtin' , and that's lang by gane I mind I had a green gown , passementit , that was thocht to become me to admiration . 
I was nae just exactly what ye would ca' bonny but I was pale , penetratin' , and interestin' . 
And she leaned over the stair rail with a candle to watch my descent as long as it should be possible . 
It chanced that Flora had met Mr. Robbie in the course of the afternoon . 
'How do you do , Mr. Ducie ? she said . 
'It is quite an age since I have seen you ! 'I have much to tell you , Miss Gilchrist , I replied . 
She made room for me , as a matter of course , and the youths had the discretion to melt before us . 
As soon as I was once seated her fan flew out , and she whispered behind it 'Are you mad ? 'Madly in love , I replied 'but in no other sense . 
'I have no patience ! You cannot understand what I am suffering ! she said . 
'What are you to say to Ronald , to Major Chevenix , to my aunt ? Your aunt ? I cried , with a start . 
'PECCAVI ! is she here ? 'She is in the card room at whist , said Flora . 
'Where she will probably stay all the evening ? I suggested . 
'She may , she admitted 'she generally does ! 'Well , then , I must avoid the card room , said I , 'which is very much what I had counted upon doing . 
'But there are still Ronald and the Major ! she persisted . 
'They are not card room fixtures ! Ronald will be coming and going . 
And as for Mr. Chevenix , he 'Always sits with Miss Flora ? I interrupted . 
'And they talk of poor St . 
Ives ? I had gathered as much , my dear and Mr. Ducie has come to prevent it ! But pray dismiss these fears ! I mind no one but your aunt . 
'I must speak to Ronald first not Ronald to me that is all ! 'Then , please , go and speak to him at once ! she pleaded . 
He is there do you see ? at the upper end of the room , talking to that girl in pink . 
'And so lose this seat before I have told you my good news ? I exclaimed . 
'God forgive me , dear ! I made haste to reply . 
'I never saw before that there were two sides to this ! And I told her my tale as briefly as I could , and rose to seek Ronald . 
'You see , my dear , you are obeyed , I said . 
The girl in pink was an arch , ogling person , with a good deal of eyes and teeth , and a great play of shoulders and rattle of conversation . 
There could be no doubt , from Mr. Ronald's attitude , that he worshipped the very chair she sat on . 
But I was quite ruthless . 
I laid my hand on his shoulder , as he was stooping over her like a hen over a chicken . 
'Excuse me for one moment , Mr. Gilchrist ! said I. He started and span about in answer to my touch , and exhibited a face of inarticulate wonder . 
It would never do to risk making a scene in the man's drawing room so the first thing I had to attend to was to have you warned . 
The name I go by is Ducie , too , in case of accidents . 
'I I say , you know ! cried Ronald . 
'Deuce take it , what are you doing here ? 'Hush , hush ! said I. 'Not the place , my dear fellow not the place . 
Come to my rooms , if you like , to night after the party , or to morrow in the morning , and we can talk it out over a segar . 
But here , you know , it really won't do at all . 
Before he could collect his mind for an answer , I had given him my address in St . 
James Square , and had again mingled with the crowd . 
He remembered suddenly that I was to attend the Assembly Ball on Thursday , and had only attended to night by way of a preparative . 
We were just walking away arm in arm , when I spied my friend the Major approaching , stiff as a ramrod and , as usual , obtrusively clean . 
'Oh ! there's a man I want to know , said I , taking the bull by the horns . 
The Major flushed visibly , but otherwise preserved his composure . 
'You are very good , Mr. Ducie , he returned . 
Ivey , says he , nudging me violently . 
'I think not , sir , said the Major , with pinched lips . 
'Well , I wish he may prove all right ! continued the lawyer , with certainly the worst inspired jocularity in the world . 
'I know nothing by him ! He may be a swell mobsman for me with his aliases . 
You must put your memory on the rack , Major , and when ye've remembered when and where ye met him , be sure ye tell me . 
'I will not fail , sir , said Chevenix . 
'Seek to him ! cried Robbie , waving his hand as he departed . 
The Major , as soon as we were alone , turned upon me his impassive countenance . 
'Well , he said , 'you have courage . 
'It is undoubted as your honour , sir , I returned , bowing . 
'Did you expect to meet me , may I ask ? said he . 
'You saw , at least , that I courted the presentation , said I. 'And you were not afraid ? said Chevenix . 
'I was perfectly at ease . 
I knew I was dealing with a gentleman . 
'Well , there are some other people looking for you , he said , 'who will make no bones about the point of honour . 
The police , my dear sir , are simply agog about you . 
'And I think that that was coarse , said I. 'You have seen Miss Gilchrist ? he inquired , changing the subject . 
'With whom , I am led to understand , we are on a footing of rivalry ? I asked . 
'Yes , I have seen her . 
'And I was just seeking her , he replied . 
I was conscious of a certain thrill of temper so , I suppose , was he . 
We looked each other up and down . 
'The situation is original , he resumed . 
'Quite , said I. 'But let me tell you frankly you are blowing a cold coal . 
I owe you so much for your kindness to the prisoner Champdivers . 
'Meaning that the lady's affections are more advantageously disposed of ? he asked , with a sneer . 
'Thank you , I am sure . 
And , since you have given me a lead , just hear a word of good advice in your turn . 
can come to nothing ? I was utterly unable to find words in answer . 
'Excuse me if I cut this interview short , he went on . 
'It seems to me doomed to come to nothing , and there is more attractive metal . 
'Yes , I replied , 'as you say , it cannot amount to much . 
You are impotent , bound hand and foot in honour . 
'I would not say that , he returned , with another change of colour . 
'I may hear it once too often . 
There was a draught in that corner by the door she had thrown her pelisse over her bare arms and neck , and the dark fur of the trimming set them off . 
She shone by contrast the light played on her smooth skin to admiration , and the colour changed in her excited face . 
For the least fraction of a second she looked from one to the other of her pair of rival swains , and seemed to hesitate . 
Then she addressed Chevenix 'You are coming to the Assembly , of course , Major Chevenix ? said she . 
'I fear not I fear I shall be otherwise engaged , he replied . 
'Even the pleasure of dancing with you , Miss Flora , must give way to duty . 
For awhile the talk ran harmlessly on the weather , and then branched off towards the war . 
It seemed to be by no one's fault it was in the air , and had to come . 
'Good news from the scene of operations , said the Major . 
'Good news while it lasts , I said . 
'Do not be too sure of that ! she cried . 
'I would love to be allowed to fight myself ! 'On which side ? I asked . 
'Can you ask ? she exclaimed . 
'I am a Scottish girl ! 'She is a Scottish girl ! repeated the Major , looking at me . 
'And no one grudges you her pity ! 'And I glory in every grain of it she has to spare , said I. 'Pity is akin to love . 
'Well , and let us put that question to Miss Gilchrist . 
It is for her to decide , and for us to bow to the decision . 
Is pity , Miss Flora , or is admiration , nearest love ? 'Oh come , said I , 'let us be more concrete . 
Lay before the lady a complete case describe your man , then I'll describe MINE , and Miss Flora shall decide . 
'I think I see your meaning , said he , 'and I'll try . 
You think that pity and the kindred sentiments have the greatest power upon the heart . 
I think more nobly of women . 
To my view , the man they love will first of all command their respect he will be steadfast proud , if you please dry , possibly but of all things steadfast . 
They will look at him in doubt at last they will see that stern face which he presents to all the rest of the world soften to them alone . 
First , trust , I say . 
It is so that a woman loves who is worthy of heroes . 
What does he ask for , then , but pity ? pity for his weakness , pity for his love , which is his life . 
We appeal to the queen for judgment , I added , turning and bowing before Flora . 
'And how shall the queen judge ? she asked . 
'I must give you an answer that is no answer at all . 
The wind bloweth where it listeth she goes where her heart goes . 
Her face flushed as she said it mine also , for I read in it a declaration , and my heart swelled for joy . 
'You make of life a very dreadful kind of lottery , ma'am , said he . 
'But I will not despair . 
Honest and unornamental is still my choice . 
And I must say he looked extremely handsome and very amusingly like the marble statue with its nose in the air to which I had compared him . 
'I cannot imagine how we got upon this subject , said Flora . 
'Madame , it was through the war , replied Chevenix . 
'All roads lead to Rome , I commented . 
At last she rose from her chair with impatience . 
'I think it time you were saying good night , Mr Ducie ! she said . 
I could not in the least see why , and said so . 
Whereupon she gave me this appalling answer , 'My aunt is coming out of the card room . 
In less time than it takes to tell , I had made my bow and my escape . 
CHAPTER XXIX EVENTS OF TUESDAY THE TOILS CLOSING THIS day began with a surprise . 
I found a letter on my breakfast table addressed to Edward Ducie , Esquire and at first I was startled beyond measure . 
I saw he had something to say I did not think it was his own something and I was ready to offer a large bet it was really something of Major Chevenix's . 
'Well , and so here you are ! I observed , with pointless cordiality , for I was bound I should do nothing to help him out . 
If he were , indeed , here running errands for my rival , he might have a fair field , but certainly no favour . 
'The fact is , he began , 'I would rather see you alone . 
'Why , certainly , I replied . 
'Rowley , you can step into the bedroom . 
My dear fellow , I continued , 'this sounds serious . 
Nothing wrong , I trust . 
'Well , I'll be quite honest , said he . 
'I AM a good deal bothered . 
'And I bet I know why ! I exclaimed . 
'And I bet I can put you to rights , too ! 'What do you mean ! he asked . 
'You must be hard up , said I , 'and all I can say is , you've come to the right place . 
If you have the least use for a hundred pounds , or any such trifling sum as that , please mention it . 
It's here , quite at your service . 
But I haven't come to talk about that . 
'No , I dare say ! cried I. 'Not worth talking about ! But remember , Ronald , you and I are on different sides of the business . 
Remember that you did me one of those services that make men friends for ever . 
And since I have had the fortune to come into a fair share of money , just oblige me , and consider so much of it as your own . 
'No , he said , 'I couldn't take it I couldn't , really . 
Besides , the fact is , I've come on a very different matter . 
It's about my sister , St . 
Ives , and he shook his head menacingly at me . 
'You're quite sure ? I persisted . 
'It's here , at your service up to five hundred pounds , if you like . 
Well , all right only remember where it is , when you do want it . 
You can see for yourself that it can't be allowed to go on . 
that I can allow my female relatives to have anything to do with . 
I hate saying this , St . 
Ives it looks like hitting a man when he's down , you know and I told the Major I very much disliked it from the first . 
However , it had to be said and now it has been , and , between gentlemen , it shouldn't be necessary to refer to it again . 
'It's compromising it doesn't lead to anything not the kind of man , I repeated thoughtfully . 
'Yes , I believe I understand , and shall make haste to put myself EN REGLE . 
I stood up , and laid my segar down . 
Gilchrist , said I , with a bow , 'in answer to your very natural observations , I beg to offer myself as a suitor for your sister's hand . 
I am a man of title , of which we think lightly in France , but of ancient lineage , which is everywhere prized . 
I can display thirty two quarterings without a blot . 
My expectations are certainly above the average I believe my uncle's income averages about thirty thousand pounds , though I admit I was not careful to inform myself . 
Put it anywhere between fifteen and fifty thousand it is certainly not less . 
'All this is very easy to say , said Ronald , with a pitying smile . 
'Unfortunately , these things are in the air . 
'Pardon me , in Buckinghamshire , said I , smiling . 
'Well , what I mean is , my dear St . 
Ives , that you CAN'T PROVE them , he continued . 
'They might just as well not be do you follow me ? You can't bring us any third party to back you . 
'Oh , come ! cried I , springing up and hurrying to the table . 
'You must excuse me ! I wrote Romaine's address . 
'There is my reference , Mr. Gilchrist . 
Until you have written to him , and received his negative answer , I have a right to be treated , and I shall see that you treat me , as a gentleman . 
He was brought up with a round turn at that . 
'I beg your pardon , St . 
'Believe me , I had no wish to be offensive . 
But there's the difficulty of this affair I can't make any of my points without offence ! You must excuse me , it's not my fault . 
But , at any rate , you must see for yourself this proposal of marriage is is merely impossible , my dear fellow . 
It's nonsense ! Our countries are at war you are a prisoner . 
'Well ! he began and then looked down into the fire , and became silent . 
'Well , there's this business of Goguelat , said he , still looking at the coals in the grate . 
'What ! I exclaimed , starting in my chair . 
'What's that you say ? 'This business about Goguelat , he repeated . 
'Ronald , said I , 'this is not your doing . 
These are not your own words . 
I know where they came from a coward put them in your mouth . 
You SAY it was an affair of honour . 
Well , I can't , of course , tell you that I can't I mean , you must see that that's just the point ! Was it ? I don't know . 
'I have the honour to inform you , said I. 'Well , other people say the reverse , you see ! 'They lie , Ronald , and I will prove it in time . 
'What do you mean , St . 
Ives ? What is this about ? It's like a dream , I declare ! You made an offer , and I have refused it . 
Now , my dear fellow , these are very awkward grounds to be taking . 
From any one else's lips I need scarce tell you how I should resent them but my hands are tied . 
I must feel the pain and I do feel it acutely I can do nothing to protect myself . 
He had been anxious enough to interrupt me in the beginning but now , and after I had ceased , he stood a long while silent . 
Ives , he said at last , 'I think I had better go away . 
This has been very irritating . 
I never at all meant to say anything of the kind , and I apologise to you . 
I have all the esteem for you that one gentleman should have for another . 
I only meant to tell you to show you what had influenced my mind and that , in short , the thing was impossible . 
One thing you may be quite sure of I shall do nothing against you . 
Will you shake hands before I go away ? he blurted out . 
'Yes , said I , 'I agree with you the interview has been irritating . 
And with that he was gone . 
The windows of my own sitting room looked towards the north but the entrance passage drew its light from the direction of the square . 
Without doubt , they had gained very little by their visit but then I had gained less than nothing , and had been bitterly dispirited into the bargain . 
Ronald had stuck to his guns and refused me to the last . 
It was no news but , on the other hand , it could not be contorted into good news . 
Without doubt she would resist these instances but the thought of them did not please me , and I felt she should be warned and prepared for the battle . 
It was no use to try and see her now , but I promised myself early that evening to return to Swanston . 
In the meantime I had to make all my preparations , and look the coming journey in the face . 
To do this , money would be necessary and after leaving my paper in the hands of Flora I had still a balance of about fifteen hundred pounds . 
This I had designed to be my gift to him , in case I must suddenly depart . 
But now , thinking better of the arrangement , I despatched my little man , cockade and all , to lift the fifteen hundred . 
He was not long gone , and returned with a flushed face , and the deposit receipt still in his hand . 
'No go , Mr. Anne , says he . 
'How's that ? I inquired , 'Well , sir , I found the place all right , and no mistake , said he . 
'You are sure you are not mistaken ? I asked . 
'Certain sure , he replied . 
'Not Mr. Lavender , I don't mean , sir I mean the other party . 
Wot's he doing here ? says I. It don't look right . 
'Not by any means , I agreed . 
I walked to and fro in the apartment reflecting . 
'Rowley , said I , 'he didn't see you , did he ? 'Never a fear , quoth Rowley . 
You'll have no more use for it till you're quite clear of me . 
Don't lose it , though it's your share of the Christmas box fifteen hundred pounds all for yourself . 
'Begging your pardon , Mr. Anne , sir , but wot for ! said Rowley . 
'And I tell you wot , sir , it seems to me I'm reether young for the billet . 
I'm your body servant , Mr. Anne , or else I'm nothink . 
'Well , Rowley , I said , 'I'll tell you what it's for . 
It's for the good service you have done me , of which I don't care and don't dare to speak . 
It's for your loyalty and cheerfulness , my dear boy . 
I had meant it for you but to tell you the truth , it's past mending now it has to be yours . 
Since that man is waiting by the bank , the money can't be touched until I'm gone . 
'Until you're gone , sir ? re echoed Rowley . 
Remember , my boy , it's only so that you can serve me now . 
'W'y , sir , you say the word , and of course I'll do it ! he cried . 
'Lately arrived' this is what I suddenly stumbled on 'at Dumbreck's Hotel , the Viscount of Saint Yves . 
'Rowley , said I. 'If you please , Mr. Anne , sir , answered the obsequious , lowering his pipe . 
'Come and look at this , my boy , said I , holding out the paper . 
'My crikey ! said he . 
'That's 'im , sir , sure enough ! 'Sure enough , Rowley , said I. 'He's on the trail . 
He has fairly caught up with us . 
He and this Bow Street man have come together , I would swear . 
And now here is the whole field , quarry , hounds and hunters , all together in this city of Edinburgh . 
You put your trust in me , Mr. Anne I'm fly , don't you make no mistake about it . 
I'm all a growing and a blowing , I am . 
'Not one foot of you , said I. 'You are a prisoner , Rowley , and make up your mind to that . 
So am I , or next door to it . 
I showed it you for a caution if you go on the streets , it spells death to me , Rowley . 
'If you please , sir , says Rowley . 
'Come to think of it , I continued , 'you must take a cold , or something . 
No good of awakening Mrs. McRankine's suspicions . 
'A cold ? he cried , recovering immediately from his depression . 
'I can do it , Mr. Anne . 
And he proceeded to sneeze and cough and blow his nose , till I could not restrain myself from smiling . 
'Oh , I tell you , I know a lot of them dodges , he observed proudly . 
'Well , they come in very handy , said I. 'I'd better go at once and show it to the old gal , 'adn't I ? he asked . 
I told him , by all means and he was gone upon the instant , gleeful as though to a game of football . 
The soldier , Champdivers , is supposed to be in the neighbourhood of this city . 
He is about the middle height or rather under , of a pleasing appearance and highly genteel address . 
When last heard of he wore a fashionable suit of pearl grey , and boots with fawn coloured tops . 
He is accompanied by a servant about sixteen years of age , speaks English without any accent , and passed under the ALIAS of Ramornie . 
A reward is offered for his apprehension . 
In a moment I was in the next room , stripping from me the pearl coloured suit ! I confess I was now a good deal agitated . 
It is difficult to watch the toils closing slowly and surely about you , and to retain your composure and I was glad that Rowley was not present to spy on my confusion . 
I was flushed , my breath came thick I cannot remember a time when I was more put out . 
And yet I must wait and do nothing , and partake of my meals , and entertain the ever garrulous Rowley , as though I were entirely my own man . 
The question of what to do troubled me extremely . 
There seemed an equal danger in pressing and in neglecting the accustomed marks of familiarity . 
The one extreme looked like impudence , and might annoy , the other was a practical confession of guilt . 
I reached the neighbourhood of the cottage before seven and as I breasted the steep ascent which leads to the garden wall , I was struck with surprise to hear a dog . 
Dogs I had heard before , but only from the hamlet on the hillside above . 
Now , this dog was in the garden itself , where it roared aloud in paroxysms of fury , and I could hear it leaping and straining on the chain . 
I waited some while , until the brute's fit of passion had roared itself out . 
Then , with the utmost precaution , I drew near again and finally approached the garden wall . 
So soon as I had clapped my head above the level , however , the barking broke forth again with redoubled energy . 
Almost at the same time , the door of the cottage opened , and Ronald and the Major appeared upon the threshold with a lantern . 
As they so stood , they were almost immediately below me , strongly illuminated , and within easy earshot . 
The Major pacified the dog , who took instead to low , uneasy growling intermingled with occasional yelps . 
'Good thing I brought Towzer ! said Chevenix . 
'Damn him , I wonder where he is ! said Ronald and he moved the lantern up and down , and turned the night into a shifting puzzle work of gleam and shadow . 
'I think I'll make a sally . 
'I don't think you will , replied Chevenix . 
Down , Towzer ! good boy , good boy gently , then ! he went on , caressing his confounded monster . 
'To think ! The beggar may be hearing us this minute ! cried Ronald . 
'Nothing more probable , said the Major . 
Ives ? he added , in a distinct but guarded voice . 
'I only want to tell you , you had better go home . 
Mr. Gilchrist and I take watch and watch . 
'BEAUCOUP DE PLAISIR ! I replied , in the same tones . 
I stepped back , picked up a stone of about twelve pounds weight , and stood ready . 
With a bound the beast landed on the cope stone of the wall and , almost in the same instant , my missile caught him fair in the face . 
He gave a stifled cry , went tumbling back where he had come from , and I could hear the twelve pounder accompany him in his fall . 
Seek where I pleased , there was nothing to encourage me and plenty to appal . 
Then I had in an hour of arrant folly buried what remained to me in a bank in George Street . 
First , Rowley might have been mistaken the bank might not be watched it might still be possible for him to draw the money on the deposit receipt . 
Second , I might apply again to Robbie . 
Or , third , I might dare everything , go to the Assembly Ball , and speak with Flora under the eyes of all Edinburgh . 
It was the likeliest thing in the world that Robbie had been warned to have no more to do with me . 
The whole policy of the Gilchrists was in the hands of Chevenix and I thought this was a precaution so elementary that he was certain to have taken it . 
Lastly , I must assure myself with my own eyes whether the bank in George Street were beleaguered . 
I called to Rowley and questioned him tightly as to the appearance of the Bow Street officer . 
'What sort of looking man is he , Rowley ? I asked , as I began to dress . 
'Wot sort of a looking man he is ? repeated Rowley . 
'Well , I don't very well know wot you would say , Mr. Anne . 
He ain't a beauty , any'ow . 
'Is he tall ? 'Tall ? Well , no , I shouldn't say TALL Mr. Anne . 
'Well , then , is he short ? 'Short ? No , I don't think I would say he was what you would call SHORT . 
No , not piticular short , sir . 
'Then , I suppose , he must be about the middle height ? 'Well , you might say it , sir but not remarkable so . 
'Is he clean shaved ? I tried him again . 
'Clean shaved ? he repeated , with the same air of anxious candour . 
'Good heaven , man , don't repeat my words like a parrot ! I cried . 
'Tell me what the man was like it is of the first importance that I should be able to recognise him . 
'I'm trying to , Mr. Anne . 
But CLEAN SHAVED ? I don't seem to rightly get hold of that p'int . 
Sometimes it might appear to me like as if he was and sometimes like as if he wasn't . 
No , it wouldn't surprise me now if you was to tell me he 'ad a bit o' whisker . 
'Was the man red faced ? I roared , dwelling on each syllable . 
'I don't think you need go for to get cross about it , Mr. Anne ! said he . 
'I'm tellin' you every blessed thing I see ! Red faced ? Well , no , not as you would remark upon . 
A dreadful calm fell upon me . 
'Was he anywise pale ? I asked . 
'Well , it don't seem to me as though he were . 
But I tell you truly , I didn't take much heed to that . 
'Did he look like a drinking man ? 'Well , no . 
If you please , sir , he looked more like an eating one . 
'Oh , he was stout , was he ? 'No , sir . 
I couldn't go so far as that . 
No , he wasn't not to say STOUT . 
If anything , lean rather . 
I need not go on with the infuriating interview . 
It ended as it began , except that Rowley was in tears , and that I had acquired one fact . 
'I'll take my davy on it , he asseverated . 
They proved to have been as black as sloes , very little and very near together . 
The man wore knee breeches and white stockings his coat was 'some kind of a lightish colour or betwixt that and dark' and he wore a 'mole skin weskit . 
As if this were not enough , he presently haled me from my breakfast in a prodigious flutter , and showed me an honest and rather venerable citizen passing in the Square . 
No , not when I come to look again , 'e don't seem to favour him noways . 
'Jackass ! said I , and I think the greatest stickler for manners will admit the epithet to have been justified . 
Meanwhile the appearance of my landlady added a great load of anxiety to what I already suffered . 
It was plain that she had not slept equally plain that she had wept copiously . 
She sighed , she groaned , she drew in her breath , she shook her head , as she waited on table . 
It was plain that this degree of tension could not last long . 
as a boy was taking down the bank shutters . 
A man was conversing with him he had white stockings and a moleskin waistcoat , and was as ill looking a rogue as you would want to see in a day's journey . 
, and had stuck to it besides , that the companion of the great Lavender was no beauty . 
Thence I made my way to Mr. Robbie's , where I rang the bell . 
A servant answered the summons , and told me the lawyer was engaged , as I had half expected . 
'Wha shall I say was callin' ? she pursued and when I had told her 'Mr . 
Ducie , 'I think this'll be for you , then ? she added , and handed me a letter from the hall table . 
DUCIE , 'My single advice to you is to leave QUAM PRIMUM for the South . 
That was short and sweet . 
It emphatically extinguished hope in one direction . 
No more was to be gotten of Robbie and I wondered , from my heart , how much had been told him . 
Not too much , I hoped , for I liked the lawyer who had thus deserted me , and I placed a certain reliance in the discretion of Chevenix . 
He would not be merciful on the other hand , I did not think he would be cruel without cause . 
It was my next affair to go back along George Street , and assure myself whether the man in the moleskin vest was still on guard . 
There was no sign of him on the pavement . 
I stopped and apologised to him he replied in an unmistakable English accent , thus putting the matter almost beyond doubt . 
that he did not live there , come down again and , again politely saluting the man from Bow Street , make my escape at last into the street . 
I was now driven back upon the Assembly Ball . 
The bank was watched it would never do to risk Rowley in that neighbourhood . 
All I could do was to wait until the morrow evening , and present myself at the Assembly , let it end as it might . 
But I must say I came to this decision with a good deal of genuine fright and here I came for the first time to one of those places where my courage stuck . 
Certainly I would go to the ball certainly I must see this morning about my clothes . 
Nearer to the Castle my legs refused to bear me . 
I cocked my hat , set my hand on my hip , and swaggered on the pavement , confronting detection . 
And I found I could do all this with a sense of exhilaration that was not unpleasing , and with a certain CRANERIE of manner that raised me in my own esteem . 
And yet there was one thing I could not bring my mind to face up to , or my limbs to execute and that was to cross the valley into the Old Town . 
And yet it was from no reasoned fear of the consequences that I could not go . 
Andrew Square , I remember vaguely hearing some one call out . 
I paid no heed , but pressed on blindly . 
A moment after , a hand fell heavily on my shoulder , and I thought I had fainted . 
I will allow no man to call me coward I have made my proofs few men more . 
did , for some ten or twenty minutes , make this hideous exhibition of myself on the streets of the New Town of Edinburgh . 
With my first available breath I begged his pardon . 
I was of an extremely nervous disposition , recently increased by late hours I could not bear the slightest start . 
My dear sir , a hair of the dog that bit you is clearly indicated . 
I had to wait until to morrow evening , at any rate this might serve as well as anything else to bridge the dreary hours . 
The country was the very place for me and walking is an excellent sedative for the nerves . 
Remembering poor Rowley , feigning a cold in our lodgings and immediately under the guns of the formidable and now doubtful Bethiah , I asked if I might bring my servant . 
'Poor devil ! it is dull for him , I explained . 
'The merciful man is merciful to his ass , observed my sententious friend . 
It was miniature scenery , but charming of its kind . 
The air of this good February afternoon was bracing , but not cold . 
Byfield I observed , because I had heard of him before , and seen his advertisements , not at all because I was disposed to feel interest in the man . 
upon myself , who was not in the least grateful . 
If I had known how I was to be connected with him in the immediate future , I might have taken more pains . 
In the hamlet of Cramond there is a hostelry of no very promising appearance , and here a room had been prepared for us , and we sat down to table . 
'Here you will find no guttling or gormandising , no turtle or nightingales' tongues , said the extravagant , whose name , by the way , was Dalmahoy . 
'The device , sir , of the University of Cramond is Plain Living and High Drinking . 
After which the SENATUS ACADEMICUS sat down to rough plenty in the shape of rizzar'd haddocks and mustard , a sheep's head , a haggis , and other delicacies of Scotland . 
It was not difficult to manage , for it was nobody's business to observe my movements , and conviviality had banished suspicion . 
I got easily forth of the chamber , which reverberated with the voices of these merry and learned gentlemen , and breathed a long breath . 
I had passed an agreeable afternoon and evening , and I had apparently escaped scot free . 
I routed him promptly from his perch , stuck his hat on , put his instrument in his pocket , and set off with him for Edinburgh . 
His limbs were of paper , his mind quite in abeyance I must uphold and guide him , prevent his frantic dives , and set him continually on his legs again . 
At first he sang wildly , with occasional outbursts of causeless laughter . 
I am afraid I was not always so gentle with the little pig as I might have been , but really the position was unbearable . 
Some of them were fairly presentable and they were all Christian martyrs compared to Rowley but they were in a frolicsome and rollicking humour that promised danger as we approached the town . 
All the passers by were addressed , some of them by name . 
A worthy man was stopped by Forbes . 
'Sir , said he , 'in the name of the Senatus of the University of Cramond , I confer upon you the degree of LL . 
D. , and with the words he bonneted him . 
Conceive the predicament of St . 
'My own case exactly , said I. 'Here , let's bilk them , said he . 
And we turned back and took our way down hill again . 
'No , indeed , sir , you may well say that ! Outrageous ! And my ascension announced for Friday , you know ! cried the aeronaut . 
I am staying at Walker and Poole's Hotel , sir , where I should be pleased to see you . 
I carried my senseless load upstairs to our lodging , and was admitted by the landlady in a tall white nightcap and with an expression singularly grim . 
She lighted us into the sitting room where , when I had seated Rowley in a chair , she dropped me a cast iron courtesy . 
I smelt gunpowder on the woman . 
Her voice , tottered with emotion . 
'I give ye nottice , Mr. Ducie , said she . 
And at that apparently temper cut off her utterance , and she took herself off without more words . 
As this point the Author's manuscript breaks off End of the Project Gutenberg eText St . 
