donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
They lived to here their work called brave and good , But oh ! the thorns before the crown of bays . 
The world gives lashes to its Pioneers Until the goal is reached then deafening cheers . 
Adapted by ANNA HOWARD SHAW . 
CONTENTS I. FIRST MEMORIES II . 
HIGH SCHOOL AND COLLEGE DAYS IV . 
THE WOLF AT THE DOOR V. SHEPHERD OF A DIVIDED FLOCK VI . 
DRAMA IN THE LECTURE FIELD IX . 
AUNT SUSAN'' X. THE PASSING OF AUNT SUSAN'' XI . 
THE WIDENING SUFFRAGE STREAM XII . 
PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL'' XIV . 
VALE ! ILLUSTRATIONS REVEREND ANNA HOWARD SHAW IN HER PULPIT ROBES LOCH AN EILAN CASTLE DR SHAW'S MOTHER , NICOLAS SHAW , AT SEVENTEEN ALNWICK CASTLE DR . 
SHAW AT THIRTY TWO DR . 
SHAW AND HER BABY'' THE DAUGHTER OF RACHEL FOSTER AVERY DR . 
SHAW'S MOTHER AT EIGHTY DR . 
SHAW'S FATHER AT EIGHTY DR . 
SHAW'S SISTER MARY , WHO DIED IN LUCY E. ANTHONY , DR . 
SHAW S FRIEND AND AUNT SUSAN'S'' FAVORITE NIECE THE WOOD ROAD NEAR DR . 
SHAW'S CAPE COD HOME , THE HAVEN DR . 
SHAW'S COTTAGE , THE HAVEN , AT WIANNO , CAPE COD THE FIRST HOME SHE BUILT GATE ENTRANCE TO DR . 
SHAW'S HOME AT MOYLAN THE SECOND HOUSE THAT DR . 
SHAW'S HOME AT MOYLAN DR . 
AND HER TWO OAKS THE VERANDA AT ALNWICK LODGE SACCAWAGEA ALNWICK LODGE , DR . 
SHAW'S HOME THE ROCK BORDERED BROOK WHICH DR . 
Beyond doubt they were brave fighters and strong men . 
There were other sides to their natures , however , which the high lights of history throw up less appealingly . 
As an instance , we have in the family chronicles the blood stained page of Allen Shaw , the oldest son of the last Lady Shaw who lived in the fortress . 
It appears that when the father of this young man died , about , his mother married again , to the intense disapproval of her son . 
Certainly he paid a high penalty for it , and his clan suffered with him . 
Many Shaws are still to be found in the Mackintosh country and throughout southern Scotland . 
Others went to England , and it was from this latter branch that my father sprang . 
My grandfather , like his father before him , was true to the traditions of his time and class . 
Quite naturally and simply he squandered all he had , and died abruptly , leaving his wife and two sons penniless . 
They were not , however , a helpless band . 
They , too , had their traditions , handed down by the fighting Shaws . 
Peter , the older son , became a soldier , and died bravely in the Crimean War . 
Indeed , he progressed until he himself checked his rise by inventing a machine that made his handwork un necessary . 
But that was years later , in America , and many other things had happened first . 
For one , he had temporarily dropped his trade and gone into the flour and grain business and , for another , he had married my mother . 
She was the daughter of a Scotch couple who had come to England and settled in Alnwick , in Northumberland County . 
My thoughts dwell lovingly on this grandmother , Nicolas Grant Stott , for she was a remarkable woman , with a dauntless soul and progressive ideas far in advance of her time . 
In those days it was customary to assess tithes on every pane of glass in a window , and a portion of the money thus collected went to the support of the Church . 
It must have been an impressive picture , and it was one with which the community became thoroughly familiar , as the determined old lady never won her fight and never abandoned it . 
She had at least the comfort of public sympathy , for she was by far the most popular woman in the country side . 
She kept her children in the schools of the duke and duchess until they had completed the entire course open to them . 
A hundred times , and among many new scenes and strange people , I have heard my mother describe her own experiences as a pupil . 
All the children of the dependents of the castle were expected to leave school at fourteen years of age . 
My mother , being a rather pre cocious young person , graduated at thirteen and carried off the first prize . 
The garment she made was a linen chemise for the duchess , and the little needlewoman had embroidered on it , with her own hair , the august lady's coat of arms . 
My father and mother met in Alnwick , and were married in February , . 
My mother , finding that her early gift had a market value , took in sewing . 
Father went to work on a small salary , and both my parents saved every penny they could lay aside , with the desperate determination to pay their remaining debts . 
It was a long struggle and a painful one , but they finally won it . 
She , too , was a Unitarian , and her baby , therefore , could not be laid in any consecrated burial ground in her neighborhood . 
She made the dreary journey alone , with the dear burden across her lap . 
In , my parents went to London . 
There they did not linger long , for the big , indifferent city had nothing to offer them . 
They moved to New castle on Tyne , and here I was born , on the four teenth day of February , in . 
Three boys and two girls had preceded me in the family circle , and when I was two years old my younger sister came . 
We were little better off in Newcastle than in London , and now my father began to dream the great dream of those days . 
He would go to America . 
Surely , he felt , in that land of infinite promise all would be well with him and his . 
He waited for the final payment of his debts and for my younger sister's birth . 
I was then little more than four years old , and the first vivid memory I have is that of being on ship board and having a mighty wave roll over me . 
I was lying on what seemed to be an enormous red box under a hatchway , and the water poured from above , almost drowning me . 
The thing that stands out most strongly during that period is the white face of my mother , ill in her berth . 
We were with five hundred emigrants on the lowest deck of the ship but one , and as the storm grew wilder an unreasoning terror filled our fellow pas sengers . 
No mad house , I am sure , could throw more hideous pictures on the screen of life than those which met our childish eyes during the appalling three days of the storm . 
Our one comfort was the knowledge that our mother was not afraid . 
The passengers , relieved of their anxieties , went from their extreme of fear to an equal extreme of drunken celebration . 
We , however , remained on the ship until she was repaired , and then sailed on her again . 
We were too poor to return home indeed , we had no home to which we could return . 
We were even too poor to live ashore . 
But we made some penny excursions in the little boats that plied back and forth , and to us children at least the weeks of waiting were not without interest . 
Our second voyage on the John Jacob Westervelt was a very different experience from the first . 
By day a glorious sun shone overhead by night we had the moon and stars , as well as the racing waves we never wearied of watching . 
For some reason , prob ably because of my intense admiration for them , which I showed with unmaidenly frankness , I be came the special pet of the sailors . 
The next thing I recall is being seriously scalded . 
I was at the foot of a ladder up which a sailor was carrying a great pot of hot coffee . 
He slipped , and the boiling liquid poured down on me . 
I must have had some bad days after that , for I was ter ribly burned , but they are mercifully vague . 
My next vivid impression is of seeing land , which we sighted at sunset , and I remember very distinctly just how it looked . 
It has never looked the same since . 
The western sky was a mass of crimson and gold clouds , which took on the shapes of strange and beautiful things . 
To me it seemed that we were entering heaven . 
I remember also the doctors com ing on board to examine us , and I can still see a line of big Irishmen standing very straight and holding out their tongues for inspection . 
To a little girl only four years old their huge , open mouths looked appalling . 
On landing a grievous disappointment awaited us my father did not meet us . 
I can see , too , the toys he brought me a little saw and a hatchet , which became the dearest treas ures of my childish days . 
No doubt it was due to him that I did not casually saw off a few of my toes and fingers . 
Cer tainly I smashed them often enough with blows of my dull but active hatchet . 
The years in Lawrence were interesting and formative ones . 
At the tender age of nine and ten I became interested in the Abolition movement . 
We were Unitarians , and General Oliver and many of the prominent citi zens of Lawrence belonged to the Unitarian Church . 
I investigated and discovered a negro woman concealed there . 
I had been reading Uncle Tom's Cabin , as well as listening to the conversation of my elders , so I was vastly stirred over the negro question . 
I raced up stairs in a condition of awe struck and quivering excitement , which my mother promptly suppressed by sending me to bed . 
Discovery of this seri ous offense might have borne grave results for him . 
It was in Lawrence , too , that I received and spent my first twenty five cents . 
I used an entire day in doing this , and the occasion was one of the most delightful and memorable of my life . 
It was the Fourth of July , and I was dressed in white and rode in a procession . 
The first banana I ever ate was purchased that day , and I hesitated over it a long time . 
Its cost was five cents , and in view of that large expenditure , the eating of the fruit , I was afraid , would be too brief a joy . 
The beautiful conduct of my sister Mary shines down through the years . 
Another experience with fruit in Lawrence illus trates the ideas of my mother and the character of the training she gave her children . 
Our neighbors , the Cabots , were one day giving a great garden party , and my sister was helping to pick strawberries for the occasion . 
When I was going home from school I passed the berry patches and stopped to speak to my sister , who at once presented me with two straw berries . 
She said Mrs. Cabot had told her to eat all she wanted , but that she would eat two less than she wanted and give those two to me . 
To my mind , the suggestion was generous and proper in my life strawberries were rare . 
To my chagrin , mother was deeply shocked . 
She told me that the trans action was all wrong , and she made me take back the berry and explain the matter to Mrs. Cabot . 
By the time I reached that generous lady the berry was the worse for its journey , and so was I. I was only nine years old and very sensitive . 
My second friendship , and one which had a strong influence on my after life , was formed in Lawrence . 
Living next door to us , on Prospect Hill , was a beautiful and mysterious woman . 
I soon learned at what hours she went forth to ride , and I used to hover around our gate for the joy of seeing her mount and gallop away . 
I was wrong about the prince , but right about the ogre . 
It was only when my unhappy lady left her castle that she was free . 
Very soon she noticed me . 
Possibly she saw the adoration in my childish eyes . 
She began to nod and smile at me , and then to speak to me , but at first I was almost afraid to answer her . 
There were stories now among the children that the house was haunted , and that by night a ghost walked there and in the grounds . 
One day the mysterious lady bent and kissed me . 
Then , straightening up , she looked at me queerly and said Go and tell your mother I did that . 
'' There was something very compelling in her manner . 
I knew at once that I must tell my mother what she had done , and I ran into our house and did so . 
Long afterward mother showed it to me . 
It ended with the words She will see no one but me . 
No harm shall come to her . 
'' That night my parents talked the matter over and decided to let me go . 
Probably they felt that the slave next door was as much to be pitied as the es caped negro slaves they so often harbored in our home . 
I made my visit , which was the first of many , and a strange friendship began and developed be tween the woman of the town and the little girl she loved . 
Some of those visits I remember as vividly as if I had made them yesterday . 
She had also a stuffed puppy , and she once mentioned that those two things alone were left of her life as a little girl . 
Besides the toys and books and pic tures , she gave me ice cream and cake , and told me fairy tales . 
She had a wonderful understanding of what a child likes . 
There were half a dozen women in the house with her , but I saw none of them nor any of the men who came . 
Once , when we had become very good friends indeed and my early shyness had departed , I found courage to ask her where the ghost was the ghost that haunted her house . 
I can still see the look in her eyes as they met mine . 
She told me the ghost lived in her heart , and that she did not like to talk about it , and that we must not speak of it again . 
Many years afterward mother told me she was the most generous woman she had ever known , and that she had a rarely beautiful nature . 
One more incident of Lawrence I must describe before I leave that city behind me , as we left it for ever in . 
I recall distinctly the public interest which attended their going , and the feeling every one seemed to have that they were passing forever out of the civilized world . 
Their farewells to their friends were eternal no one expected to see them again , and my small brain grew dizzy as I tried to imagine a place so remote as their destination . 
It was , I finally decided , at the uttermost ends of the earth , and it seemed quite possible that the brave adventurers who reached it might then drop off into space . 
Fifty years later I was talking to a Cali fornia girl who complained lightly of the monotony of a climate where the sun shone and the flowers bloomed all the year around . 
But I had a de lightful change last year , '' she added , with anima tion . 
I went East for the winter . 
'' To New York ? '' I asked . 
No , '' corrected the California girl , easily , to Lawrence , Kansas . 
'' Nothing , I think , has ever made me feel quite so old as that remark . 
The move to Michigan meant a complete up heaval in our lives . 
In Lawrence we had around us the fine flower of New England civilization . 
We children went to school our parents , though they were in very humble circumstances , were associated with the leading spirits and the big movements of the day . 
When we went to Michigan we went to the wilderness , to the wild pioneer life of those times , and we were all old enough to keenly feel the change . 
My father was one of a number of Englishmen who took up tracts in the northern forests of Michigan , with the old dream of establishing a colony there . 
None of these men had the least practical knowledge of farming . 
They were city men or followers of trades which had no connection with farm life . 
Thus bird's eye maple and other beautiful woods were used as fire wood and in the construction of rude cabins , and the greatest asset of the pioneers was ignored . 
Father preceded us to the Michigan woods , and there , with his oldest son , James , took up a claim . 
They cleared a space in the wilderness just large enough for a log cabin , and put up the bare walls of the cabin itself . 
Then father returned to Law rence and his work , leaving James behind . 
His second and third sons , John and Thomas , re mained in the East with him . 
Every detail of our journey through the wilder ness is clear in my mind . 
At that time the railroad terminated at Grand Rapids , Michigan , and we covered the remaining distance about one hundred miles by wagon , riding through a dense and often trackless forest . 
My sisters and I gave it one cold look and turned from it we were so pained by its appearance that we refused to ride in it through the town . 
Every available inch of space in the wagon was filled with bedding and provisions . 
To my mother , who was never strong , the whole experience must have been a nightmare of suffering and stoical endurance . 
For us children there were compensations . 
We forded innumerable streams , the wheels of the heavy wagon sinking so deeply into the stream beds that we often had to empty our load before we could get them out again . 
Fallen trees lay across our paths , rivers caused long detours , while again and again we lost our way or were turned aside by impenetrable forest tangles . 
Our first day's journey covered less than eight miles , and that night we stopped at a farm house which was the last bit of civilization we saw . 
Early the next morning we were off again , making the slow progress due to the rough roads and our heavy load . 
At night we stopped at a place called Thomas's Inn , only to be told by the woman who kept it that there was nothing in the house to eat . 
to get some flour , and had not returned but she added that we could spend the night , if we chose , and enjoy shelter , if not food . 
We had provisions in our wagon , so we wearily entered , after my brother had got out some of our pork and opened a barrel of flour . 
With this help the woman made some biscuits , which were so green that my poor mother could not eat them . 
She had admitted to us that the one thing she had in the house was saleratus , and she had used this ingredient with an unsparing hand . 
When the meal was eaten she broke the further news that there were no beds . 
The old woman can sleep with me , '' she sug gested , and the girls can sleep on the floor . 
The boys will have to go to the barn . 
'' She and her bed were not especially attractive , and mother decided to lie on the floor with us . 
'' She must have felt like one that night , but she was only about forty eight years of age . 
At dawn the next morning we resumed our jour ney , and every day after that we were able to cover the distance demanded by the schedule arranged before we started . 
This meant that some sort of shelter usually awaited us at night . 
But one day we knew there would be no houses between the place we left in the morning and that where we were to sleep . 
The distance was about twenty miles , and when twilight fell we had not made it . 
In the back of the wagon my mother had a box of little pigs , and during the afternoon these had broken loose and escaped into the woods . 
Immedi ately after the talk which followed James harnessed his horses again and forced us to go on , though by that time darkness had fallen . 
He told mother , but did not tell us children until long afterward , that a man had been murdered in the hut only the night before . 
The murderer was still at large in the woods , and the new comers were members of a posse who were searching for him . 
My brother needed no urging to put as many miles as he could between us and the sinister spot . 
In that fashion we made our way to our new home . 
The last day , like the first , we traveled only eight miles , but we spent the night in a house I shall never forget . 
It was beautifully clean , and for our eve ning meal its mistress brought out loaves of bread which were the largest we had ever seen . 
She cut great slices of this bread for us and spread maple sugar on them , and it seemed to us that never be fore had anything tasted so good . 
The next morning we made the last stage of our journey , our hearts filled with the joy of nearing our new home . 
We all had an idea that we were going to a farm , and we expected some resemblance at least to the prosperous farms we had seen in New England . 
My mother's mental picture was , natu rally , of an English farm . 
Possibly she had visions of red barns and deep meadows , sunny skies and daisies . 
It was late in the afternoon when we drove up to the opening that was its front entrance , and I shall never forget the look my mother turned upon the place . 
Without a word she crossed its threshold , and , standing very still , looked slowly around her . 
Then something within her seemed to give way , and she sank upon the ground . 
She could not realize even then , I think , that this was really the place father had prepared for us , that here he expected us to live . 
When she finally took it in she buried her face in her hands , and in that way she sat for hours without moving or speaking . 
For the first time in her life she had for gotten us and we , for our part , dared not speak to her . 
We stood around her in a frightened group , talking to one another in whispers . 
Our little world had crumbled under our feet . 
Never before had we seen our mother give way to despair . 
The woods became alive with night creatures , and the most harmless made the most noise . 
Later the wolves added their howls to the uproar , but though darkness came and we children whimpered around her , our mother still sat in her strange lethargy . 
At last my brother brought the horses close to the cabin and built fires to protect them and us . 
He was only twenty , but he showed himself a man dur ing those early pioneer days . 
While he was picketing the horses and building his protecting fires my mother came to herself , but her face when she raised it was worse than her silence had been . 
She seemed to have died and to have returned to us from the grave , and I am sure she felt that she had done so . 
Soon the other children fell asleep , but there was no sleep for me . 
I was only twelve years old , but my mind was full of fancies . 
Behind our blankets , swaying in the night wind , I thought I saw the heads and pushing shoul ders of animals and heard their padded footfalls . 
Later years brought familiarity with wild things , and with worse things than they . 
But to night that which I most feared was within , not outside of , the cabin . 
In some way which I did not understand the one sure refuge in our new world had been taken from us . 
I hardly knew the silent woman who lay near me , tossing from side to side and staring into the darkness I felt that we had lost our mother . 
II IN THE WILDERNESS Like most men , my dear father should never have married . 
If his mind turned to practical details at all , it was solely in their bear ing toward great developments of the future . 
To him an acorn was not an acorn , but a forest of young oaks . 
He had furnished us with land and the four walls of a log cabin . 
Even if he had witnessed my mother's despair on the night of our arrival in our new home , he would not have understood it . 
From his viewpoint , he was doing a man's duty . 
He was working steadily in Lawrence , and , incidentally , giving much time to the Abolition cause and to other big public movements of his day which had his interest and sympathy . 
He wrote to us regu larly and sent us occasional remittances , as well as a generous supply of improving literature for our minds . 
It remained for us to strengthen our bodies , to meet the conditions in which he had placed us , and to survive if we could . 
We faced our situation with clear and unalarmed eyes the morning after our arrival . 
The problem of food , we knew , was at least temporarily solved . 
We held a family council after breakfast , and in this , though I was only twelve , I took an eager and determined part . 
I loved work it has always been my favorite form of recreation and my spirit rose to the opportunities of it which smiled on us from every side . 
There was a small saw mill nine miles from our cabin , on the spot that is now Big Rapids , and there we bought our lumber . 
The general effect was temperamental and sketchy . 
Neither did we properly chink the house . 
Even there our faces scorched while our spines slowly congealed , until we learned to revolve before the fire like a bird upon a spit . 
Mother was practically an invalid . 
She had a nervous affection which made it impossible for her to stand without the support of a chair . 
But she sewed with unusual skill , and it was due to her that our clothes , notwithstanding the strain to which we subjected them , were always in good condition . 
He also built for her a more comfortable chair with a high back . 
Even during the second summer plowing was impossible we could only plant potatoes and corn , and follow the most primitive method in doing even this . 
We took an ax , chopped up the sod , put the seed under it , and let the seed grow . 
The seed did grow , too in the most gratifying and encouraging manner . 
Our green corn and potatoes were the best I have ever eaten . 
But for the present we lacked these luxuries . 
We had , however , in their place , large quantities of wild fruit gooseberries , raspberries , and plums which Harry and I gathered on the banks of our creek . 
Harry also became an expert fisherman . 
We had no hooks or lines , but he took wires from our hoop skirts and made snares at the ends of poles . 
My part of this work was to stand on a log and frighten the fish out of their holes by making horrible sounds , which I did with impassioned earnestness . 
Such furniture as we had we made ourselves . 
On every side , and at every hour of the day , we came up against the relentless limitations of pioneer life . 
There was not a team of horses in our entire region . 
The team with which my brother had driven us through the wilderness had been hired at Grand Rapids for that occasion , and , of course , immediately returned . 
were carried through the forest on the backs of men . 
Our mail was delivered once a month by a carrier who made the journey in alter nate stages of horseback riding and canoeing . 
Naturally , our two greatest menaces were wild animals and Indians , but as the days passed the first of these lost the early terrors with which we had associated them . 
But the Indians were all around us , and every settler had a collection of hair raising tales to tell of them . 
In my first encounter with them I was alone in the woods at sunset with my small brother Harry . 
We were hunting a cow James had bought , and our young eyes were peering eagerly among the trees , on the alert for any moving object . 
Suddenly , at a little distance , and coming directly toward us , we saw a party of Indians . 
All the horrible stories we had heard of Indian cruelty flashed into our minds , and for a moment we were dumb with terror . 
Then I remembered having been told that the one thing one must not do before them is to show fear . 
As it happened , James was away , and mother had to meet her unwelcome guests supported only by her young children . 
She at once prepared a meal , however , and when they arrived she welcomed them calmly and gave them the best she had . 
These Indians were Ottawas and later we became very friendly with them and their tribe , even to the degree of attending one of their dances , which I shall describe later . 
Our second encounter with Indians was a less agreeable experience . 
There were seven Mar quette warriors'' in the next group of callers , and they were all intoxicated . 
Our attic was finished , and its sole entrance was by a ladder through a trap door . 
These Eleanor drew up and con cealed in one of the bunks . 
Once there , with the ladder drawn up after us and the trap door closed , we would be rea sonably safe , unless our guests decided to burn the cabin . 
The evening seemed endless , and was certainly nerve racking . 
The Indians ate everything in the house , and from my seat in a dim corner I watched them while my sisters waited on them . 
I can still see the tableau they made in the firelit room and hear the unfamiliar accents of their speech as they talked together . 
There was no knowing when they would miss us or how soon their mood might change . 
At any moment they might make an attack upon us or set fire to the cabin . 
When they awoke they left quietly and without trouble of any kind . 
They seemed a strangely subdued and chastened band probably they were wretchedly ill after their debauch on the adulterated whisky the traders had given them . 
That autumn the Ottawa tribe had a great corn celebration , to which we and the other settlers were invited . 
James and my older sisters attended it , and I went with them , by my own urgent invita tion . 
The central feature of the festivity was a huge kettle , many feet in circumference , into which the Indians dropped the most extraordinary variety of food we had ever seen combined . 
Deer heads went into it whole , as well as every kind of meat and vegetable the members of the tribe could procure . 
The affair was extremely interesting until the whisky entered and did its unpleasant work . 
During the winter life offered us few diversions and many hardships . 
Our creek froze over , and the water problem became a serious one , which we met with increasing difficulty as the temperature steadily fell . 
In the spring , therefore , I made a well . 
Long before this , James had gone , and Harry and I were now the only out door members of our working force . 
When the excavation was deep enough we made the wall of slabs of wood , roughly joined together . 
I recall that well with calm content . 
It was not a thing of beauty , but it was a thoroughly practical well , and it remained the only one we had during the twelve years the family occupied the cabin . 
During our first year there was no school within ten miles of us , but this lack failed to sadden Harry or me . 
We had brought with us from Lawrence a box of books , in which , in winter months , when our outdoor work was restricted , we found much comfort . 
They were the only books in that part of the country , and we read them until we knew them all by heart . 
Moreover , father sent us regularly the New York Independent , and with this admirable literature , after reading it , we papered our walls . 
Thus , on stormy days , we could lie on the settle or the floor and read the Independent over again with increased interest and pleasure . 
Occasionally father sent us the Ledger , but here mother drew a definite line . 
There were also a few arithmetics and algebras , a historical novel or two , and the inevitable copy of Uncle Tom's Cabin , whose pages I had freely moistened with my tears . 
When the advantages of public education were finally extended to me , at thirteen , by the opening of a school three miles from our home , I accepted them with growing reluctance . 
The teacher was a spinster forty four years of age and the only genuine old maid'' I have ever met who was not a married woman or a man . 
She was the real thing , and her name , Prudence Duncan , seemed the fitting label for her rigidly uncompromising personality . 
I graced Prudence's school for three months , and then left it at her fervid request . 
I had walked six miles a day through trackless woods and Western blizzards to get what she could give me , but she had little to offer my awakened and critical mind . 
My reading and my Lawrence school work had already taught me more than Prudence knew a fact we both inwardry admitted and fiercely resented from our different viewpoints . 
Beyond doubt I was a pert and trying young person . 
I lost no opportunity to lead Prudence beyond her intellectual depth and leave her there , and Prudence vented her chagrin not alone upon me , but upon my little brother . 
From that time I studied at home , where I was a much more valuable economic factor than I had been in school . 
To gether we made one hundred and fifty pounds of sugar and a barrel of syrup , but here again , as al ways , we worked in primitive ways . 
To get the sap we chopped a gash in the tree and drove in a spile . 
Then we dug out a trough to catch the sap . 
Inevitably , we had our little tragedies . 
Our cow died , and for an entire winter we went without milk . 
Our coffee soon gave out , and as a substitute we made and used a mixture of browned peas and burnt rye . 
In the winter we were always cold , and the water problem , until we had built our well , was ever with us . 
Father joined us at the end of eighteen months , but though his presence gave us pleasure and moral support , he was not an addition to our executive staff . 
He brought with him a rocking chair for mother and a new supply of books , on which I fell as a starving man falls upon food . 
Father read as eagerly as I , but much more steadily . 
I have known him to spend a planting season in figuring on the production of a certain number of kernels of corn , instead of planting the corn and raising it . 
Often , as his fame grew , ten or twelve men would arrive at our cabin on Saturday and remain over Sunday . 
They were not sensitive and , as they had brought their candles , it seemed fitting to them and to father that we girls should cook for them and supply them with food . 
Father's tolerance of idleness in others , however , did not extend to tolerance of idleness in us , and this led to my first rebellion , which occurred when I was fourteen . 
As it happened , mother had felt that day some special need of me , and father reproached me bitterly for being beyond reach an idler who wasted time while mother labored . 
He ended a long arraignment by predicting gloomily that with such tendencies I would make nothing of my life . 
For some reason I wanted to preach to talk to people , to tell them things . 
When my father had finished all he wished to say , I looked at him and answered , quietly , Father , some day I am going to college . 
'' I can still see his slight , ironical smile . 
It drove me to a second prediction . 
It was the largest fortune my imagination could conceive , and in my heart I believed that no woman ever had possessed or would possess so much . 
So far as I knew , too , no woman had gone to college . 
But now that I had put my secret hopes into words , I was desperately determined to make those hopes come true . 
When I was fifteen years old I was offered a situa tion as school teacher . 
By this time the com munity was growing around us with the rapidity characteristic of these Western settlements , and we had nearer neighbors whose children needed instruc tion . 
During the first year I had about fourteen pupils , of varying ages , sizes , and temperaments , and there was hardly a book in the school room except those I owned . 
One little girl , I remember , read from an almanac , while a second used a hymn book . 
In winter the school house was heated by a wood stove , to which the teacher had to give close personal attention . 
Again and again , after miles of walking through winter storms , I reached the school house with my clothing wet through , and in these soaked garments I taught during the day . 
I earned my two dollars a week that year , but I had to wait for my wages until the dog tax was col lected in the spring . 
'' The gown I bought was , I con sidered , a beautiful creation . 
In color it was a rich magenta , and the skirt was elaborately braided with black cable cord . 
My admiration for it was justi fied , for it did all a young girl's eager heart could ask of any gown it led to my first proposal . 
His costume , like himself , left much to be desired . 
He wore a blue flannel shirt and a pair of trousers made of flour bags . 
Such trousers were not uncommon in our region , and the boy's mother , who had made them for him , had thoughtfully selected a nice clean pair of sacks . 
The vision fascinated my sisters and their two guests . 
Then , as we inhospit ably closed the door , they fastened their eyes to the cracks in the living room wall , that they might miss none of the entertainment . 
When we were alone my guest and I sat down in facing chairs and in depressed silence . 
The young man was nervous , and I was both frightened and annoyed . 
At last the youth in formed me that his dad'' had just given him a cabin , a yoke of steers , a cow , and some hens . 
I can't , '' I told him . 
I'm sorry , but but I'm engaged . 
'' He rose quickly , with the effect of a half closed jack knife that is suddenly opened , and for an in stant stood looking down upon me . 
He was six feet two inches tall , and extremely thin . 
I am very short , and , as I looked up , his flour bag trousers seemed to join his yellow sash somewhere near the ceiling of the room . 
He put both hands into his pockets and slowly delivered his valedictory . 
That's darned dis appointing to a fellow , '' he said , and left the house . 
After a moment devoted to regaining my maidenly composure I returned to the living room , where I had the privilege of observing the enjoyment of my sisters and their visitors . 
Helpless with mirth and with tears of pleasure on their cheeks , the four rocked and shrieked as they recalled the picture my gallant had presented . 
For some time after that incident I felt a strong distaste for sentiment . 
The ball was at Big Rapids , which by this time had grown to be a thriving lumber town . 
Natu rally , they were soaked and chilled through , but they all bore the experience with a gay philosophy . 
In the near future I had reason to regret the ex travagant expenditure of my first earnings . 
For my second year of teaching , in the same school , I was to receive five dollars a week and to pay my own board . 
I selected a place two miles and a half from the school house , and was promptly asked by my host to pay my board in advance . 
This , he ex plained , was due to no lack of faith in me the money would enable him to go outside'' to work , leaving his family well supplied with provisions . 
I allowed him to go to the school committee and col lect my board in advance , at the rate of three dol lars a week for the season . 
In the mean time war had been declared . 
When the news came that Fort Sumter had been fired on , and that Lincoln had called for troops , our men were threshing . 
There was only one threshing machine in the region at that time , and it went from place to place , the farmers doing their thresh ing whenever they could get the machine . 
I re member seeing a man ride up on horseback , shout ing out Lincoln's demand for troops and explaining that a regiment was being formed at Big Rapids . 
In ten minutes not one man was left in the field . 
He had entered on the twenty ninth of August , , as an army steward he came back to us with the rank of lieutenant and assistant surgeon of field and staff . 
Between those years I was the principal support of our family , and life became a strenuous and tragic affair . 
For months at a time we had no news from the front . 
The work in our community , if it was done at all , was done by despairing women whose hearts were with their men . 
When care had become our constant guest , Death entered our home as well . 
My sister Eleanor had married , and died in childbirth , leaving her baby to me and the blackest hours of those black years were the hours that saw her pass ing . 
I can see her still , lying in a stupor from which she roused herself at intervals to ask about her child . 
At last , to calm her , I told her it had come , and that Tom had chosen for her little son the name of Arthur . 
She smiled at this and drew a deep breath then , still smiling , she passed away . 
The problem of living grew harder with every day . 
The largest amount I could earn at teaching was six dollars a week , and our school year included only two terms of thir teen weeks each . 
It was an incessant struggle to keep our land , to pay our taxes , and to live . 
Cal ico was selling at fifty cents a yard . 
Coffee was one dollar a pound . 
After Eleanor's death my brother Tom was wounded , and for months we lived in terror of worse tidings , but he finally recovered . 
I was walking seven and eight miles a day , and doing extra work before and after school hours , and my health began to fail . 
Those were years I do not like to look back upon years in which life had de generated into a treadmill whose monotony was broken only by the grim messages from the front . 
My sister Mary married and went to Big Rapids to live . 
I had no time to dream my dream , but the star of my one purpose still glowed in my dark horizon . 
When peace was declared my father and brothers returned to the claim in the wilderness which we women of the family had labored so des perately to hold while they were gone . 
To us , as to others , the final years of the war had brought many changes . 
My sister Eleanor's place was empty . 
After the return of our men it was no longer necessary to de vote every penny of my earnings to the maintenance of our home . 
There , I had de cided , I would learn a trade of some kind , of any kind it did not greatly matter what it was . 
The sole essential was that it should be a money making trade , offering wages which would make it possible to add more rapidly to my savings . 
In those days , almost fifty years ago , and in a small pioneer town , the fields open to women were few and unfruitful . 
The needle at once presented itself , but at first I turned with loathing from it . 
I would have pre ferred the digging of ditches or the shoveling of coal but the needle alone persistently pointed out my way , and I was finally forced to take it . 
Fate , however , as if weary at last of seeing me between her paws , suddenly let me escape . 
Her ser mon was delivered on Sunday morning , and I was , I think , almost the earliest arrival of the great con gregation which filled the church . 
Her advice was as prompt as if she had studied my problem for years . 
My child , '' she said , give up your foolish idea of learning a trade , and go to school . 
You can't do anything until you have an education . 
Get it , and get it NOW . 
For the first time life was smiling at me , and with all my young heart I smiled back . 
The preceptress of the high school was Lucy Foot , a college graduate and a remarkable woman . 
My trust in her was justified . 
As an aid to public speaking I was taught to elo cute , '' and I remember in every mournful detail the occasion on which I gave my first recitation . 
We were having our monthly public exhibition night , '' and the audience included not only my class mates , but their parents and friends as well . 
Sympathetic classmates carried me into an anteroom and revived me , after which they naturally assumed that the entertainment I furnished was over for the evening . 
The audience gave me its eager attention . 
Possibly it hoped to see me topple off the platform again , but nothing of the sort occurred . 
I went through the recitation with self possession and received some friendly applause at the end . 
Now , however , the nervousness passes after a moment or two . 
From that night Miss Foot lost no opportunity of putting me into the foreground of our school affairs . 
I took part in all our debates , recited yards of poe try to any audience we could attract , and even shone mildly in our amateur theatricals . 
It was probably owing to all this activity that I attracted the in terest of the presiding elder of our district Dr . 
Peck , a man of progressive ideas . 
There was at that time a movement on foot to license women to preach in the Methodist Church , and Dr . 
Peck was ambitious to be the first presiding elder to have a woman ordained for the Methodist ministry . 
He had urged Miss Foot to be this pioneer , but her ambitions did not turn in that direction . 
Though she was a very devout Methodist , she had no wish to be the shepherd of a religious flock . 
She loved her school work , and asked nothing better than to remain in it . 
Gently but persistently she directed the attention of Dr . 
Peck to me , and immediately things began to happen . 
Without telling me to what it might lead , Miss Foot finally arranged a meeting at her home by in viting Dr . 
Peck and me to dinner . 
Being uncon scious of any significance in the occasion , I chatted light heartedly about the large issues of life and probably settled most of them to my personal satis faction . 
Peck drew me out and led me on , listened and smiled . 
When the evening was over and we rose to go , he turned to me with sudden seriousness My quarterly meeting will be held at Ashton , '' he remarked , casually . 
I would like you to preach the quarterly sermon . 
'' For a moment the earth seemed to slip away from my feet . 
I stared at him in utter stupefaction . 
Then slowly I realized that , incredible as it seemed , the man was in earnest . 
Why , '' I stammered , I can't preach a ser mon ! '' Dr . 
Have you ever tried ? '' he asked . 
I started to assure him vehemently that I never had . 
Never , '' I said , to human beings . 
Well , '' he told me , the door is open . 
Enter or not , as you wish . 
'' He left the house , but I remained to discuss his overwhelming proposition with Miss Foot . 
A sud den sobering thought had come to me . 
But , '' I exclaimed , I've never been converted . 
How can I preach to any one ? '' We both had the old time idea of conversion , which now seems so mistaken . 
We thought one had to struggle with sin and with the Lord until at last the heart opened , doubts were dispersed , and the light poured in . 
Our last session was a dramatic one , which took up the entire night . 
With all my heart I wanted to preach , and I believed that now at last I had my call . 
The following day we sent word to Dr . 
I knew only too well what view my family and my friends would take of such a step and of me . 
To them it would mean nothing short of personal dis grace and a blotted page in the Shaw record . 
I had six weeks in which to prepare my sermon , and I gave it most of my waking hours as well as those in which I should have been asleep . 
We two had always been very close , and the death of Eleanor , to whom we were both devoted , had drawn us even nearer to each other . 
Now Mary's tears and prayers wrung my heart and shook my resolution . 
But , after all , she was asking me to give up my whole future , to close my ears to my call , and I felt that I could not do it . 
My decision caused an estrangement between us which lasted for years . 
Peck , who had his own reasons for nervousness , handsomely assured me that my first sermon was better than his maiden effort had been . 
The sermon also had another result , less gratify ing . 
It brought out , on the following morning , the first notice of me ever printed in a newspaper . 
This was instigated by my brother in law , and it was brief but pointed . 
It read A young girl named Anna Shaw , seventeen years old , preached at Ashton yesterday . 
Her real friends deprecate the course she is pursuing . 
A misstatement by the brother in law . 
Shaw was at this time twenty three years old . 
E. J. The little notice had something of the effect of a lighted match applied to gunpowder . 
The members of my family , meeting in solemn council , sent for me , and I responded . 
They had a proposition to make , and they lost no time in put ting it before me . 
If I gave up my preaching they would send me to college and pay for my entire course . 
We had a long evening together , and it was a very unhappy one . 
It did not require twenty four hours of reflection to convince me that I must go my solitary way . 
There was unusual interest in the result , and my father was among those who came to the Conference to see the vote taken . 
During these Conferences a minister voted affirma tively on a question by holding up his hand , and negatively by failing to do so . 
When the question of my license came up the majority of the ministers voted by raising both hands , and in the pleasant excitement which followed my father slipped away . 
Though the warmth of Mary's love for me had become a memory , the warmth of her hearthstone was still offered me . 
I accepted it , perforce , and we lived together like shadows of what we had been . 
In the mean time my preaching had not inter fered with my studies . 
I was working day and night , but life was very difficult for among my school mates , too , there were doubts and much head shaking over this choice of a career . 
Mary A. Livermore came to Big Rapids , and as she was then at the height of her career , the entire countryside poured in to hear her . 
Far back in the crowded hall I sat alone and listened to her , thrilled by the lecture and tremulous with the hope of meeting the lecturer . 
Some one in the circle around us told her that I wanted to preach , and that I was meeting tremendous opposition . 
She was interested at once . 
She looked at me with quickening sympathy , and then , suddenly putting an arm around me , drew me close to her side . 
My dear , '' she said , quietly , if you want to preach , go on and preach . 
Don't let anybody stop you . 
No matter what people say , don't let them stop you ! '' For a moment I was too overcome to answer her . 
These were almost my first encouraging words , and the morning stars singing together could not have made sweeter music for my ears . 
Before I could recover a woman within hearing spoke up . 
Oh , Mrs. Livermore , '' she exclaimed , don't say that to her ! We're all trying to stop her . 
Her peo ple are wretched over the whole thing . 
Yes , '' she said at last , I see she has . 
But it is better that she should die doing the thing she wants to do than that she should die because she can't do it . 
'' Her words were a tonic which restored my voice . 
So they think I'm going to die ! '' I cried . 
Her sanction was a shield , however , from which the criticisms of the world fell back . 
Fate's more friendly interest in my affairs that year was shown by the fact that she sent Mrs. Livermore into my life before I had met Anna Dickinson . 
Miss Dickinson came to us toward spring and lectured on Joan of Arc . 
Never before or since have I been more deeply moved by a speaker . 
When she had finished her address I made my happy way to the front of the hall with the others who wished to meet the distinguished guest . 
It was our local manager who introduced me , and he said , This is our Anna Shaw . 
She is going to be a lecturer , too . 
'' I looked up at the brilliant Miss Dickinson with the trustfulness of youth in my eyes . 
I remem bered Mrs. Livermore and I thought all great wom en were like her , but I was now to experience a bitter disillusionment . 
Miss Dickinson barely touched the tips of my fingers as she looked indifferently past the side of my face . 
Ah , '' she said , icily , and turned away . 
In the autumn of I entered Albion College , in Albion , Michigan . 
I was twenty five years of age , but I looked much younger probably not more than eighteen to the casual glance . 
I had chosen Albion because Miss Foot had been educated there , and I was encouraged by an incident that happened the morning after my arrival . 
That seemed a good omen , and it was emphatically underlined by the finding of two exactly similar pennies within a week . 
He stopped for a word of greeting , during which I be trayed the fact that I had never studied United States history . 
Josclyn at once invited me into his office with , I am quite sure , the purpose of ex plaining as kindly as he could that my preparation for college was insufficient . 
As an opening to the subject he began to talk of history , and we talked and talked on , while unheeded hours were born and died . 
It was the longest and by far the most interesting talk I have ever had with a highly educated man , and during it I could actually feel my brain expand . 
When I rose to go President Josclyn stopped me . 
I have something to give you , '' he said , and he wrote a few words on a slip of paper and handed the slip to me . 
My triumph in history was followed by the swift and chastening discovery that I was behind my as sociates in several other branches . 
Naturally , I soon plunged into speaking , and my first public speech at college was a defense of Xan tippe . 
I have always felt that the poor lady was greatly abused , and that Socrates deserved all he received from her , and more . 
Each of the societies made friend ly advances to new students , and for some time I hesitated on the brink of the new joys they offered , uncertain which to choose . 
A representative of the mixed society , who was putting its claims before me , unconsciously helped me to make up my mind . 
Women , '' he pompously assured me , need to be associated with men , because they don't know how to manage meetings . 
'' On the instant the needle of decision swung around to the women's society and remained there , fixed . 
If they don't , '' I told the pompous young man , it's high time they learned . 
I shall join the women , and we'll master the art . 
While I was brooding somberly upon this wrong an opportunity came to make a formal and effective protest against the men's high handed methods . 
The Quinquennial re union of all the societies was about to be held , and the special feature of this festivity was always an oration . 
At such unprecedented behavior the entire stu dent body arose in excitement , which , among the girls , was combined with equal parts of exhilaration and awe . 
This was not at all what I wanted , and I immedi ately declined to serve . 
We girls then nominated the young man who had been first choice of our brother society , but he haughtily refused to accept the compliment . 
This was a wholly unexpected boomerang . 
Moreover , I had no suitable gown to wear on so important an occasion . 
One of my classmates , however , secretly wrote to my sister , describing my blushing honors and ex plaining my need , and my family rallied to the call . 
My father bought the material , and my mother and Mary paid for the making of the gown . 
To my family that oration was the redeeming episode of my early career . 
For the moment it almost made them for get my crime of preaching . 
My original fund of eighteen dollars was now supplemented by the proceeds of a series of lectures I gave on temperance . 
During my first college year the amount I paid for amuse ment was exactly fifty cents that went for a lec ture . 
That , with what I could earn , carried me through the year . 
The following spring our brother James , who was now living in St . 
Johnsbury one Saturday , and within an hour of our arrival learned that my brother had arranged for me to preach in a local church the following day . 
Moved by this conviction , she joined the family parade to the church , and later , in the sacristy , she pulled me about and pinned me up to her heart's content . 
Then , reluctantly , she went into the church and heard me preach . 
Every Sunday that summer I preached in or near St . 
Johnsbury , and toward autumn we had a big meeting which the ministers of all the surrounding churches attended . 
I was asked to preach the ser mon a high compliment and I chose that impor tant day to make a mistake in quoting a passage from Scripture . 
Later , one of the ministers congratulated me on this presence of mind . 
If you had corrected yourself , '' he said , all the young people would have been giggling yet over the spotted nigger . 
From that time life was less complex . 
Sev eral times I preached to the Indians , and these occasions were among the most interesting of my experiences . 
The squaws invariably brought their babies with them , but they had a simple and effective method of relieving themselves of the care of the infants as soon as they reached the church . 
In that assemblage the emotions were not allowed to interrupt the calm intellectual enjoyment of the sermon . 
The stage took me within twenty two miles of my desti nation , to a place called Seberwing . 
It was not a pleasant prospect , for I had heard appalling tales of the stockades in this region and of the women who were kept prisoners there . 
It was already growing dark when we started , and within a few moments we were out of the little settlement and entering the woods . 
With me I had a revolver I had long since learned to use , but which I very rarely carried . 
Then , little by little , they disappeared like a rapidly fading negative . 
The woods were filled with Norway pines , hemlocks , spruce , and tamaracks great , somber trees that must have shut out the light even on the brightest days . 
To night the heavens held no lamps aloft to guide us , and soon the darkness folded around us like a garment . 
I could see neither the driver nor his horses . 
I could hear only the sibilant whisper of the trees and the creak of our slow wheels in the rough forest road . 
Suddenly the driver began to talk , and at first I was glad to hear the reassuring human tones , for the experience had begun to seem like a bad dream . 
I replied readily , and at once regretted that I had done so , for the man's choice of topics was most unpleasant . 
He began to tell me stories of the stockades grim stories with horrible details , re peated so fully and with such gusto that I soon realized he was deliberately affronting my ears . 
I checked him and told him I could not listen to such talk . 
He replied with a series of oaths and shocking vulgarities , stopping his horses that he might turn and fling the words into my face . 
He ended by snarling that I must think him a fool to imagine he did not know the kind of woman I was . 
You know perfectly well who I am , '' I reminded him . 
And you understand that I am making this journey to night because I am to preach to morrow morning and there is no other way to keep my appointment . 
'' He uttered a laugh which was a most unpleasant sound . 
Well , '' he said , coolly , I'm damned if I'll take you . 
I've got you here , and I'm going to keep you here ! '' I slipped my hand into the satchel in my lap , and it touched my revolver . 
No touch of human fingers ever brought such comfort . 
With a deep breath of thanksgiving I drew it out and cocked it , and as I did so he recognized the sudden click . 
Here ! What have you got there ? '' he snapped . 
I have a revolver , '' I replied , as steadily as I could . 
And it is cocked and aimed straight at your back . 
If you stop again , or speak , I'll shoot you . 
'' For an instant or two he blustered . 
By God , '' he cried , you wouldn't dare . 
'' Wouldn't I ? '' I asked . 
Try me by speaking just once more . 
'' Even as I spoke I felt my hair rise on my scalp with the horror of the moment , which seemed worse than any nightmare a woman could experience . 
But the man was conquered by the knowledge of the waiting , willing weapon just behind him . 
He laid his whip savagely on the backs of his horses and they responded with a leap that almost knocked me out of the wagon . 
The rest of the night was a black terror I shall never forget . 
He did not speak again , nor stop , but I dared not relax my caution for an instant . 
Hour after hour crawled toward day , and still I sat in the unpierced darkness , the revolver ready . 
I knew he was inwardly raging , and that at any instant he might make a sudden jump and try to get the revolver away from me . 
I decided that at his slightest movement I must shoot . 
But dawn came at last , and just as its bluish light touched the dark tips of the pines we drove up to the log hotel in the settlement that was our destination . 
Get down , '' he said , gruffly . 
Even yet I dared not trust him . 
Moreover , I was so stiff after my vigil that I was not sure I could move . 
You get down , '' I directed , and wake up the landlord . 
'' He sullenly obeyed and aroused the hotel owner , and when the latter appeared I climbed out of the wagon with some effort but without explanation . 
Their appearance caused great surprise , as they had never attended a service before . 
There were forty or fifty of them , and when we took up our collection they responded with much liberality and cheerful shouts to one another . 
Put in fifty cents ! '' they yelled across the church . 
Her sermon ? '' said one of them to my landlord , after the meeting . 
Huh ! I dunno what she preached . 
My reputation in the Northwest was growing , and by sermons and lectures I could certainly earn enough to pay the expenses of the full college course . 
On the other hand , Boston was a new world . 
There I would be alone and practically penniless , and the oppor tunities for work might be limited . 
But not more than once or twice during the struggle there , and then only for an hour or two in the physical and mental depression attending malnutrition , did I regret coming . 
At that period of my life I believed that the Lord had my small personal affairs very much on His mind . 
The faith that sustained me then has still a place in my life , and existence without it would be an infinitely more dreary affair than it is . 
But I admit that I now call upon the Lord less often and less imperatively than I did before the stern years taught me my unimportance in the great scheme of things . 
For me no such kindly provision was made . 
I was not allowed a place in the dormitory , but instead was given two dollars a week to pay the rent of a room outside . 
With characteristic optimism , however , I hired a little attic room on Tremont Street and established myself therein . 
I at once sought opportunities to preach and lecture , but these were even rarer than firelight and food . 
In Albion I had been practically the only licensed preacher available for substitute and special work . 
If , by a happy chance , the compensation came in cash , the amount was rarely more than five dollars , and never more than ten . 
There was no help in sight from my family , whose early opposition to my career as a minister had hotly flamed forth again when I started East . 
I lived , therefore , on milk and crackers , and for weeks at a time my hunger was never wholly satis fied . 
In my home in the wilderness I had often heard the wolves prowling around our door at night . 
Now , in Boston , I heard them even at high noon . 
There is a special and almost indescribable de pression attending such conditions . 
The self humiliation I experienced was also intense . 
The one comfort I had in those black days was the knowledge that no one suspected the depth of the abyss in which I dwelt . 
We were all struggling to the indifferent glance and all glances were indifferent my struggle was no worse than that of my classmates whose rooms and frugal meals were given them . 
The day dawned when I had not a cent , nor any prospect of earning one . 
My stock of provisions consisted of a box of biscuit , and my courage was flowing from me like blood from an opened vein . 
Then came one of the quick turns of the wheel of chance which make for optimism . 
If my week of work brought me enough to buy a pair of cheap shoes and feed me for a few days I would , I decided , continue my theological course . 
If it did not , I would give up the fight . 
When he came to me and began to com pliment me on the work I had done , I could not rise . 
At first his words rolled around the empty church as if they were trying to get away from me , but at last I began to catch them . 
I was , it seemed , a most desirable helper . 
It had been a privilege and a pleasure to be associated with me . 
Beyond doubt , I would go far in my career . 
He heartily wished that he could reward me adequately . 
My tired heart fluttered at this . 
Probably my empty stomach fluttered , too but in the next moment something seemed to catch my throat and stop my breath . 
For it appeared that , notwith standing the enthusiasm and the spiritual uplift of the week , the collections had been very disap pointing and the expenses unusually heavy . 
He could not give me fifty dollars . 
He could not give me anything at all . 
He thanked me warmly and wished me good night . 
I managed to answer him and to get to my feet , but that journey down the aisle from my chair to the church door was the longest journey I have ever made . 
During it I felt not only the heart sick disappointment of the moment , but the cumulative unhappiness of the years to come . 
I was friend less , penniless , and starving , but it was not of these conditions that I thought then . 
The one over whelming fact was that I had been weighed and found wanting . 
I stumbled along , passing blindly a woman who stood on the street near the church entrance . 
She stopped me , timidly , and held out her hand . 
Then suddenly she put her arms around me and wept . 
Oh , Miss Shaw , '' she said , I'm the happiest woman in the world , and I owe my happiness to you . 
To night you have converted my grandson . 
He's all I have left , but he has been a wild boy , and I've prayed over him for years . 
Hereafter he is going to lead a different life . 
He has just given me his promise on his knees . 
'' Her hand fumbled in her purse . 
I am a poor woman , '' she went on , but I have enough , and I want to make you a little present . 
I know how hard life is for you young students . 
'' She pressed a bill into my fingers . 
It's very little , '' she said , humbly it is only five dollars . 
'' I laughed , and in that exultant moment I seemed to hear life laughing with me . 
With the passing of the bill from her hand to mine existence had become a new experience , wonderful and beautiful . 
It's the biggest gift I have ever had , '' I told her . 
This little bill is big enough to carry my future on its back ! '' I had a good meal that night , and I bought the shoes the next morning . 
Infinitely more sustaining than the food , however , was the conviction that the Lord was with me and had given me a sign of His approval . 
The experience was the turning point of my theological career . 
When the money was gone I succeeded in obtaining more work from time to time and though the grind was still cruelly hard , I never again lost hope . 
The theological school was on Bromfield Street , and we students climbed three flights of stairs to reach our class rooms . 
She stopped , looked me over , and then invited me into her room , where she asked me if I felt ill . 
I assured her that I did not . 
She let me leave without much com ment , but the next day she again invited me into her office and came directly to the purpose of the interview . 
Miss Shaw , '' she said , I have been talking to a friend of mine about you , and she would like to make a bargain with you . 
She thinks you are work ing too hard . 
She will pay you three dollars and a half a week for the rest of this school year if you will promise to give up your preaching . 
She wants you to rest , study , and take care of your health . 
'' I asked the name of my unknown friend , but Mrs. Barrett said that was to remain a secret . 
She had been given a check for seventy eight dollars , and from this , she explained , my allowance would be paid in weekly instalments . 
I took the money very gratefully , and a few years later I returned the amount to the Missionary Society but I never learned the identity of my benefactor . 
I spent most of my evenings in study , and my Sundays in the churches of Phil lips Brooks and James Freeman Clark , my favorite ministers . 
Also , I joined the university's praying band of students , and took part in the missionary work among the women of the streets . 
I went into the homes of these women , followed them to the streets and the dance halls , talked to them , prayed with them , and made friends among them . 
During my vacation in the summer of I went to Cape Cod and earned my expenses by substituting in local pulpits . 
Here , at East Dennis , I formed the friendship which brought me at once the greatest happiness and the deepest sorrow of that period of my life . 
When I returned to the theological school in the autumn Mrs. Addy came to Boston with me , and from that time until her death , two years later , we lived together . 
For the first time I had some one to come home to , some one to confide in , some one to talk to , listen to , and love . 
We read together and went to con certs together and it was during this winter that I attended my first theatrical performance . 
I did not long enjoy the glimpses into my new world , for soon , and most tragically , it was closed to me . 
In the spring following our first Boston winter together Mrs. Addy and I went to Hingham , Massachusetts , where I had been appointed tempo rary pastor of the Methodist Church . 
At last her father , Captain Crowell , sent to Paris for Dr . 
Brown Sequard , then the most distinguished special ist of his day , and Dr . 
Brown Sequard , when he arrived and examined his patient , discovered that she had a tumor on the brain . 
Every moment I could take from my parish and my studies I spent with her , and those were sorrowful months . 
Three months after Mrs. Addy's death I grad uated . 
She had planned to take me abroad , and during our first winter together we had spent count less hours talking and dreaming of our European wanderings . 
After her death it seemed to me that to go without her was impossible . 
First , however , I had graduated clad in a brand new black silk gown , and with five dollars in my pocket , which I kept there during the graduation exercises . 
I graduated without any special honors . 
Pos sibly I might have won some if I had made the effort , but my graduation year , as I have just explained , had been very difficult . 
But some of the men were good humoredly cordial , and several of them are among my friends to day . 
Between myself and my family there still existed the breach I had created when I began to preach . 
Toward the end of my university experience , how ever , an incident occurred which apparently changed my mother's viewpoint . 
Here , for the first time , my mother heard me . 
Dutifully escorted by one of my brothers , she at tended church that morning in a state of shivering nervousness . 
I do not know what she expected me to do or say , but toward the end of the sermon it became clear that I had not justified her fears . 
I liked the sermon very much , '' she peacefully told my brother . 
Anna didn't say anything about hell , or about anything else ! '' When we laughed at this handsome tribute , she hastened to qualify it . 
What I mean , '' she explained , is that Anna didn't say anything objectionable in the pulpit ! '' And with this recognition I was content . 
On one of these occasions , I remember , when she entered the pulpit to preach her sermon , she dropped her bon net and coat on an unoccupied chair . 
Why , I'm very proud of it , '' he said , with the utmost cheerfulness . 
You see , I'm the only man in the world who has that dis tinction . 
'' They were a charming couple , the Livermores , and they deserved far more than they received from a world to which they gave so freely and so richly . 
It was during this period , also , that I met Frances E. Willard . 
There was a great Moody revival in progress in Boston , and Miss Willard was the right hand assistant of Mr. Moody . 
The meetings also laid the foundation of our friend ship , and for many years Miss Willard and I were closely associated in work and affection . 
I went down the aisle with others , and found a seat near Miss Willard , to whom I was then introduced by some one who knew us both . 
I wore my hair short in those days , and I had a little fur cap on my head . 
Though I had been preaching for several years , I looked absurdly young far too young , it soon became evident , to interest Mr. Moody . 
Then he took pity on me and came to my side to whisper kindly that I had misunderstood his invitation . 
He did not want young girls to talk to his people , he said , but mature women with worldly experi ence . 
I made no explanations to him , but started to leave , and Miss Willard , who saw me departing , fol lowed and stopped me . 
She asked why I was going , and I told her that Mr. Moody had sent me home to grow . 
She took me back to Mr. Moody and explained the situation to him , and he apologized and put me to work . 
He said he had thought I was about sixteen . 
After that I occasionally helped him in the intervals of my other work . 
We landed in Glasgow , and from there went to England , Belgium , Holland , Germany , France , and last of all to Italy . 
Our company in cluded many clergymen and a never to be forgotten widow whose light hearted attitude toward the mem ory of her departed spouse furnished the comedy of our first voyage . 
Oh no ! '' she would chirp . 
I was not pres sent when he called at our hotel , and my absence gave my fellow clergymen an opportunity to play a joke on the gentleman from the gospel ship . 
They assured him that Dr . 
Shaw'' would preach for him , and the pastor returned to his post greatly pleased . 
When they told me of his invitation , however , they did not add that they had neglected to tell him Dr . 
Shaw was a woman , and I was greatly elated by the compliment I thought had been paid me . 
He had just taken my hand he dropped it as if it had burned his own . 
For a mo ment he had no words to meet the crisis . 
My asso ciates , who had so light heartedly let me in for this unpleasant experience , now realized that they must see me through it . 
They persuaded him to allow me to preach the sermon . 
With deep reluctance the pastor finally accepted me and the situation but when the moment came to introduce me , he devoted most of his time to heartfelt apologies for my presence . 
He explained to the sailors that I was a woman , and fervidly assured them that he himself was not responsible for my appearance there . 
I said My friends , I hope you will forget everything Dr . 
It is true that I am a minister , and that I came here to preach . 
But now I do not intend to preach only to have a friendly talk , on a text which is not in the Bible . 
I am very far from home , and I feel as homesick as some of you men look . 
So my text is , Blessed are the home sick , for they shall go home . 
'' In my summers at Cape Cod I had learned some thing about sailors . 
I knew that in the inprepos sessing congregation before me there were many boys who had run away from home , and men who had left home because of family troubles . 
Then I talked of the sailor's wife , and of her double burden of homemaking and anxiety , and soon I could pick out some of the hus bands by their softened faces . 
But still my old man grinned and squinted . 
Last of all I described the whalers who were absent from home for years , and who came back to find their children and their grandchildren waiting for them . 
And now at last the sneer left my old man's loose lips . 
He twisted un easily in his seat , coughed , and finally took out a big red handkerchief and wiped his eyes . 
When I came here , '' I added , I intended to preach a sermon on The Heavenly Vision . 
Now I want to give you a glimpse of that in addition to the vision we have had of home . 
'' I ended with a bit of the sermon and a prayer , and when I raised my head the old man of the sar donic grin was standing before me . 
Missus , '' he said in a husky whisper , I'd like to shake your hand . 
'' At the words they surged forward , and the affair became a reception , during which I shook hands with every sailor of my congregation . 
The next day my hand was swollen out of shape , for the sailors had gripped it as if they were hauling on a hawser but the experience was worth the discomfort . 
The best moment of the morning came , however , when the pastor of the ship faced me , goggle eyed and mar veling . 
I wouldn't have believed it , '' was all he could say . 
I thought the men would mob you . 
'' Why should they mob me ? '' I wanted to know . 
Why , '' he stammered , because the thing is so so unnatural . 
'' Well , '' I said , if it is unnatural for women to talk to men , we have been living in an unnatural world for a long time . 
The next European incident on which memory throws a high light was our audience with Pope Leo XIII . 
When we reached the Vatican we were marched between rows of Swiss Guards to the Throne Room , only to learn there that we were to be received in the Tapestry Room . 
There was nothing fleshly about Leo XIII . 
His body was so frail , so wraithlike , that one almost expected to see through it the magnificent tapestries on the walls . 
But from the moment he appeared every eye clung to him , every thought was concentrated upon him . 
This effect I think he would have produced even if he had come among us unrecognized , for through the thin shell that housed it shone the steady flame of a wonderful spirit . 
When my op portunity came I kept my word but after I had kissed the venerable hand I remained kneeling for an instant with bowed head , a little aghast at my daring . 
The gentle Father thought , however , that I was waiting for a special blessing . 
He gave it to me gravely and passed on , and I devoted the next few hours to ungodly crowing over the associ ates who had received no such individual atten tion . 
In Venice we attended the great fete celebrating the first visit of King Humbert and Queen Mar gherita . 
Forty thousand per sons were gathered in the Square of St . 
Mark and in front of the Palace , and I recall a pretty incident in which the gracious Queen and a little street urchin figured . 
The small , ragged boy had crept as close to the royal balcony as he dared , and then , unobserved , had climbed up one of its pillars . 
Long live the Queen ! '' he cried . 
Long live the Queen ! '' The gracious Margherita heard the childish voice , and , amused and interested , leaned over the bal cony to see where it came from . 
What she saw doubtless touched the mother heart in her . 
She caught the eye of the tattered urchin clinging to the pillar , and radiantly smiled on him . 
Then , prob ably thinking that the King was absorbing the at tention of the great assemblage , she indulged in a little diversion . 
The next instant she had straightened up and flushed , for the watchful crowd had seen the episode and was wild with enthusiasm . 
For ten minutes the people cheered the Queen without ceasing , and for the next few days they talked of little but the spontaneous , girlish action which had delighted them all . 
One more sentimental record , and I shall have reached another mile stone . 
Instead of giving me the money , he gave me two railroad bonds , one for one thousand dollars , the other for five hundred dollars , and each drawing seven per cent . 
He suggested that I deposit these bonds in the bank of which he was president , and borrow from the bank the money to go abroad . 
Then , when I re turned and went into my new parish , I could use some of my salary every month toward repaying the loan . 
These monthly payments , he explained , could be as small as I wished , but each month the interest on the amount I paid would cease . 
I glad ly took his advice and borrowed seven hundred dollars . 
After I returned from Europe I repaid the loan in monthly instalments , and eventually got my bonds , which I still own . 
Thus my friend has had a share in each of the many visits I have made to Europe , and in all of them her memory has been vividly with me . 
With my return from Europe my real career as a minister began . 
I had paid off a small church debt , and had had the building repaired , painted , and carpeted . 
Now that it was out of its difficulties it offered some advantages to the occupant of its pul pit , and of these my successor , a man , received the benefit . 
I , however , had small ground for com plaint , for I was at once offered and accepted the pastorate of a church at East Dennis , Cape Cod . 
Here I went in October , , and here I spent seven of the most interesting years of my life . 
V SHEPHERD OF A DIVIDED FLOCK On my return from Europe , as I have said , I took up immediately and most buoyantly the work of my new parish . 
My previous occupation of various pulpits , whether long or short , had always been in the role of a substitute . 
Now , for the first time , I had a church of my own , and was to stand or fall by the record made in it . 
But my in experience disturbed me not at all , and I was bliss fully ignorant of the division in the congregation . 
My appointment did not cause even a lull in the warfare among my parishioners . 
Before I had crossed the threshold of my church I was made to realize that I was shepherd of a divided flock . 
Exactly what had caused the original breach I never learned but it had widened with time , until it seemed that no peacemaker could build a bridge large enough to span it . 
and as I steadily declined to listen to complaints , they devised an original method of putting them before me . 
By the time the prayers were ended there were few un tarnished reputations in the congregation , and I knew , perforce , what both sides had to say . 
I was still young , and my theo logical course had set no guide posts on roads as new as these . 
To interfere with souls in their com munion with God seemed impossible to let them continue to utter personal attacks in church , under cover of prayer , was equally impossible . 
Any course I could follow seemed to lead away from my new parish , yet both duty and pride made prompt action neces sary . 
By the time we gathered for the third prayer meeting I had decided what to do , and before the services began I rose and addressed my erring chil dren . 
Either you will stop this kind of praying , or you will re main away from our meetings . 
We will hold prayer meetings on another night , and I shall refuse ad mission to any among you who bring personal criti cisms into your public prayers . 
'' As I had expected it to do , the announcement created an immediate uproar . 
Both factions sprang to their feet , trying to talk at once . 
They went unwillingly , but they went and the excitement the next day raised the sick from their beds to talk of it , and swept the length and breadth of Cape Cod . 
The following Sunday the little church held the largest attendance in its history . 
Seemingly , every man and woman in town had come to hear what more I would say about the trouble , but I ignored the whole matter . 
That night , however , the war was brought into my camp . 
At the evening meeting the leader of one of the factions rose to his feet with the obvious pur pose of starting trouble . 
He began with the proposition that my morning sermon had been entirely contrary to the Scriptures , '' and for ten minutes he quoted and mis quoted me , hammering in his points . 
I let him go on without interruption . 
Then he added And this gal comes to this church and under takes to tell us how we shall pray . 
That's a high handed measure , and I , for one , ain't goin' to stand it . 
I want to say right here that I shall pray as I like , when I like , and where I like . 
It was a hard moment , but I was able to rise with some show of dignity . 
I was hurt through and through , but my fighting blood was stirring . 
No , '' I said , Captain Sears has the floor . 
Let him say now all he wishes to say , for it is the last time he will ever speak at one of our meetings . 
'' Captain Sears , whose exertions had already made him apoplectic , turned a darker purple . 
What's that ? '' he shouted . 
What d'ye mean ? '' I mean , '' I replied , that I do not intend to allow you or anybody else to interfere with my meetings . 
You are a sea captain . 
He stood still , with his legs far apart and braced , as he always stood when talking , but his eyes shifted a little . 
I answered my own question . 
You would put me ashore or in irons , '' I re minded him . 
Now , Captain Sears , I intend to put you ashore . 
I am the master of this ship . 
I have set my course , and I mean to follow it . 
If you rebel , either you will get out or I will . 
But until the board asks for my resignation , I am in command . 
'' As it happened , I had put my ultimatum in the one form the old man could understand . 
He sat down without a word and stared at me . 
We sang the Doxology , and I dismissed the meeting . 
Again we had omitted prayers . 
Even at the time , however , his attack helped rather than hurt me . 
At the regular meeting the following Thursday night no personal criticisms were included in the prayers , and eventually we had peace . 
But many battles were lost and won before that happy day arrived . 
Captain Sears's vacant place among us was promptly taken by another captain in East Dennis , whose name was also Sears . 
A few days after my encounter with the first captain I met the second on the street . 
He had never come to church , and I stopped and invited him to do so . 
He replied with simple candor . 
I ain't comin' , '' he told me . 
There ain't no gal that can teach me nothin' . 
'' Perhaps you are wrong , Captain Sears , '' I re plied . 
I might teach you something . 
'' What ? '' demanded the captain , with chilling distrust . 
Oh , '' I said , cheerfully , let us say tolerance , for one thing . 
'' Humph ! '' muttered the old man . 
The Lord don't want none of your tolerance , and neither do I. '' I laughed . 
He doesn't object to tolerance , '' I said . 
You can talk , too and the Lord will listen to us both . 
'' To my surprise , the captain came the following Sunday , and during the seven years I remained in the church he was one of my strongest supporters and friends . 
I needed friends , for my second battle was not slow in following my first . 
There was , in deed , barely time between in which to care for the wounded . 
Then they spent the re mainder of the year boasting of the achievement . 
It came to my ears that they had decided to follow this pleasing programme at our Christmas church celebration , so I called the church trustees together and put the situation to them . 
We must either enforce our discipline , '' I said , or give it up . 
Personally I do not object to danc ing , but , as the church has ruled against it , I intend to uphold the church . 
To allow these people to make us ridiculous year after year is impossible . 
Let us either tell them that they may dance or that they may not dance but whatever we tell them , let us make them obey our ruling . 
'' The trustees were shocked at the mere suggestion of letting them dance . 
Very well , '' I ended . 
Then they shall not dance . 
'' Captain Crowell , the father of my dead friend Mrs. Addy , and himself my best man friend , was a strong supporter of the Free Religious Group . 
They made all their preparations for the dance , therefore , with entire confidence , and boasted that the affair would be the gayest they had ever arranged . 
My people began to look at me with sympathy , and for a time I felt very sorry for myself . 
It seemed sufficiently clear that the gal'' was to have more trouble . 
On the night of the party things went badly from the first . 
There was an evident intention among the worst of the Free Religious Group to embarrass us at every turn . 
We opened the exercises with the Lord's Prayer , which this element loudly applauded . 
Finally tiring of these innocent diversions , they began to prepare for their dance , and I protested . 
The spokesman of the group waved me to one side . 
Captain Crowell said we could , '' he remarked , airily . 
Captain Crowell , '' I replied , has no authority whatever in this matter . 
The church trustees have decided that you cannot dance here , and I intend to enforce their ruling . 
'' It was interesting to observe how rapidly the men of my congregation disappeared from that hall . 
Like shadows they crept along the walls and vanished through the doors . 
But the preparations for the dance went merrily on . 
I walked to the middle of the room and raised my voice . 
I was always listened to , for my hearers always had the hope , usually realized , that I was about to get into more trouble . 
You are determined to dance , '' I began . 
I cannot keep you from doing so . 
But I can and will make you regret that you have done so . 
The law of the State of Massachusetts is very definite in re gard to religious meetings and religious gatherings . 
This hall was engaged and paid for by the Wesleyan Methodist Church , of which I am pastor , and we have full control of it to night . 
Every man and woman who interrupts our exercises by attempting to dance , or by creating a disturbance of any kind , will be arrested to morrow morning . 
'' Surprise at first , then consternation , swept through the ranks of the Free Religious Group . 
They denied the existence of such a law as I had mentioned , and I promptly read it aloud to them . 
The leaders went off into a corner and consulted . 
By this time not one man in my parish was left in the hall . 
As a result of the consultation in the corner , a committee of the would be dancers came to me and suggested a compromise . 
Will you agree to arrest the men only ? '' they wanted to know . 
No , '' I declared . 
No girl or woman dared to go on the dancing floor , and no man cared to revolve merrily by himself . 
A whisper went round , how ever , that the dance would begin when I had left . 
When the clock struck twelve , at which hour , ac cording to the town rule , the hall had to be closed , I was the last person to leave it . 
Then I locked the door myself , and carried the key away with me . 
There had been no Free Religious dance that night . 
On the following Sunday morning the attendance at my church broke all previous records . 
Every seat was occupied and every aisle was filled . 
Men and women came from surrounding towns , and strange horses were tied to all the fences in East Dennis . 
Every person in that church was looking for excitement , and this time my congregation got what it expected . 
Before I began my sermon I read my resignation , to take effect at the discretion of the trustees . 
In my study of English I had ac quired a fairly large vocabulary . 
I think I used it all that morning certainly I tried to . 
If ever an erring congregation and community saw themselves as they really were , mine did on that occasion . 
I was heartsick , discouraged , and full of resentment and indignation , which until then had been pent up . 
Under the arraignment my people writhed and squirmed . 
I ended What I am saying hurts you , but in your hearts you know you deserve every word of it . 
It is high time you saw yourselves as you are a disgrace to the religion you profess and to the community you live in . 
'' I was not sure the congregation would let me finish , but it did . 
My hearers seemed torn by conflicting sentiments , in which anger and curios ity led opposing sides . 
Many of them left the church in a white fury , but others more than I had expected remained to speak to me and assure me of their sympathy . 
Once on the streets , different groups formed and mingled , and all day the little town rocked with arguments for and against the gal . 
'' Night brought another surprisingly large attend ance . 
I expected more trouble , and I faced it with difficulty , for I was very tired . 
I was sure he was there to make another attack on me while I was down , and , expecting the worst , I wearily gave him his opportunity . 
He said he had come to make a confession . 
He had been angry with the gal'' in the past , as they all knew . 
But he had heard about the sermon she had preached that morning , and this time she was right . 
It was high time quarreling and backbiting were stopped . 
They had been going on too long , and no good could come of them . 
I've come here to say I'm with the gal , '' he ended . 
Put me down for my original subscription and ten dollars extra ! '' So we had the old man back again . 
He was a tower of strength , and he stood by me faithfully until he died . 
, and the congregation , when it had thought things over , apparently decided that there might be worse things in the pulpit than the gal . 
As for me , when the fight was over I dropped it from my mind , and it had not entered my thoughts for years , until I began to summon these memories . 
The arrangement worked so well that it lasted for six and a half years until I resigned from my East Dennis church . 
I had done so , and had then sent him a return invitation . 
My third resignation went before the trustees in consequence of my protest from the pulpit against a small drinking and gambling saloon in East Dennis which was rapidly demoralizing our boys . 
Theo retically , only soft drinks'' were sold , but the gambling was open , and the resort was constantly filled with boys of all ages . 
There were influences back of this place which tried to protect it , and its owner was very popular in the town . 
After my first sermon I was waited upon by a committee , that warmly advised me to let East Dennis alone'' and confine my criticisms to saloons in Boston and other big towns . 
Then my friends rallied and the resort was suppressed . 
That was my last big struggle . 
During the re maining five years of my pastorate on Cape Cod the relations between my people and myself were wholly harmonious and beautiful . 
If I have seemed to dwell too much on these small victories , it must be remembered that I find in them such comfort as I can . 
I have seen victories here and there , and shall see more . 
But when the ultimate triumph comes when American women in every state cast their ballots as naturally as their husbands do I may not be in this world to rejoice over it . 
We painted the church , and even cut down and mod ernized the pulpit . 
The total cost of material and furniture was not half so great as the original esti mate had indicated , and we had learned a valuable lesson . 
I have said that at the end of two years from the time of my appointment the long continued war fare in the church was ended . 
Many of them strongly believed that women were out of place in the ministry . 
I did not blame them for this conviction . 
I could perform the marriage service , but I could not baptize . 
I could bury the dead , but I could not take members into my church . 
That had to be done by the presiding elder or by some other minister . 
I could not administer the sacraments . 
So at the New England Spring Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church , held in Boston in , I formally applied for ordination . 
Our names were therefore presented at the Conference , over which Bishop Andrews pre sided , and he immediately refused to accept them . 
We had been warned of this gentle man's deep seated prejudice against women in the ministry . 
After the services were over Miss Oliver and I called on him and asked him what we should do . 
He told us calmly that there was nothing for us to do but to get out of the Church . 
We reminded him of our years of study and probation , and that I had been for two years in charge of two churches . 
While we were walking slowly away , Miss Oliver confided to me that she did not intend to leave the Church . 
Instead , she told me , she would stay in and fight the matter of her ordination to a finish . 
I , however , felt differently . 
I had done considerable fighting during the past two years , and my heart and soul were weary . 
I do not intend to fight my Church . 
To leave my Church , even though urged to do so by its appointed spokes man , seemed a radical step . 
Before taking this I appealed from the decision of the Conference to the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church , which held its session that year in Cin cinnati , Ohio . 
Miss Oliver also appealed , and again we were both refused ordination , the General Con ference voting to sustain Bishop Andrews in his decision . 
Not content with this achievement , the Conference even took a backward step . 
It deprived us of the right to be licensed as local preachers . 
After this blow I recalled with gratitude the Reverend Mark Trafton's excellent advice , and I immediately applied for ordination in the Methodist Protestant Church . 
My name was presented at the Conference held in Tarrytown in October , , and the fight was on . 
During these Conferences it is customary for each candidate to retire while the discussion of his in dividual fitness for ordination is in progress . 
When my name came up I was asked , as my predecessors had been , to leave the room for a few moments . 
I went into an anteroom and waited a half hour , an hour , all afternoon , all evening , and still the battle raged . 
I varied the monotony of sitting in the ante room by strolls around Tarrytown , and I think I learned to know its every stone and turn . 
The next day passed in the same way . 
At last , late on Saturday night , it was suddenly announced by my opponents that I was not even a member of the Church in which I had applied for ordination . 
The statement created consternation among my friends . 
None of us had thought of that ! The bomb , timed to ex plode at the very end of the session , threatened to destroy all my hopes . 
Of course , my opponents had reasoned , it would be too late for me to do anything , and my name would be dropped . 
But it was not too late . 
Late as it was , he immediately called together the trustees of his church , and they responded . 
To them I made my application for church membership , which they ac cepted within five minutes . 
I was now a member of the Church , but it was too late to obtain any further action from the Conference . 
The next day , Sunday , all the men who had applied for ordination were ordained , and I was left out . 
On Monday morning , however , when the Con ference met in its final business session , my case was reopened , and I was eventually called before the members to answer questions . 
Some of these were extremely interesting , and several of the episodes that occurred were very amusing . 
One old gentle man I can see as I write . 
He was greatly excited , and he led the opposition by racing up and down the aisles , quoting from the Scriptures to prove his case against women ministers . 
Paul said , Wives , obey your husbands , '' shouted my old man of the coat tails . 
But even if he did , it would not concern me , for I am a spinster . 
'' The old man looked me over . 
You might marry some day , '' he predicted , cautiously . 
Possibly , '' I admitted . 
Wiser women than I am have married . 
But it is equally possible that I might marry a man who would command me to preach and in that case I want to be all ready to obey him . 
'' At this another man , a bachelor , also began to draw from the Scriptures . 
An elder , '' he quoted , shall be the husband of one wife . 
'' And he de manded , triumphantly , How is it possible for you to be the husband of a wife ? '' In response to that I quoted a bit myself . 
Then I went a bit further , for by this time the absurd character of the questions was getting on my nerves . 
Even if my good brother's interpretation is cor rect , '' I said , he has overlooked two important points . 
At that , one of my friends in the council rose to his feet . 
I have had official occasion to examine into the matter of Miss Shaw's parish and salary , '' he said , and I know what salaries the last three speakers are drawing . 
It may interest the Conference to know that Miss Shaw's present salary equals the combined salaries of the three young men who are so afraid she will be a burden to the Church . 
If , before being ordained , she can earn three times as much as they now earn after being ordained , it seems fairly clear that they will never have to support her . 
We can only hope that she will never have to sup port them . 
'' The three young ministers subsided into their seats with painful abruptness , and from that time my opponents were more careful in their remarks . 
Still , many unpleasant things were said , and too much warmth was shown by both sides . 
We gained ground through the day , however , and at the end of the session the Conference , by a large majority , voted to ordain me . 
The ordination service was fixed for the following evening , and even the gentlemen who had most vigorously opposed me were not averse to making the occasion a profitable one . 
The contention had already enormously advertised the Conference , and the members now helped the good work along by sending forth widespread announcements of the result . 
They also decided that , as the attendance at the service would be very large , they would take up a collection for the support of superannuated ministers . 
, the expected crowd came also . 
And to the credit of my opponents I must add that , having lost their fight , they took their defeat in good part and grace fully assisted in the services . 
Sitting in one of the front pews was Mrs. Stiles , the wife of Dr . 
Stiles , who was superintendent of the Conference . 
The ordination service was very impressive and beautiful . 
Its peace and dignity , following the battle that had raged for days , moved me so deep ly that I was nearly overcome . 
When this vow fell from my lips a perceptible ripple ran over the congregation . 
I was homesick for my Cape Cod parish , and I returned to East Dennis immediately after my ordination , arriving there on Saturday night . 
I knew by the suppressed excitement of my friends that some surprise awaited me , but I did not learn what it was until I entered my dear little church the following morning . 
There I found the com munion table set forth with a beautiful new com munion service . 
This had been purchased during my absence , that I might dedicate it that day and for the first time administer the sacrament to my people . 
Oh , did you ? '' I asked , greatly touched . 
You're not saying that merely to please me ? '' The old man's hand fell on my shoulder . 
I miss you , '' he said , simply . 
I miss you all the time . 
You see , I love you . 
'' Then , with precipitate self consciousness , he closed the door of his New England heart , and from some remote corner of it sent out his cautious after thought . 
I love you , '' he re peated , primly , as a sister in the Lord . 
'' Relief Paine lived in Brewster . 
Her name seemed prophetic , and she once told me that she had always considered it so . 
Her brother in law was my Sun day school superintendent , and her family belonged to my church . 
I shall never forget the picture she made . 
When I entered she turned and looked toward me with wonderful dark eyes that were quite blind , and as she talked her hands played with the pansies around her . 
She loved pansies as she loved few human beings , and she knew their colors by touching them . 
She was then a little more than thirty years of age . 
Relief and I became close friends . 
I was greatly drawn to her , and deeply moved by the tragedy of her situation , as well as by the beautiful spirit with which she bore it . 
So I said I am coming to see you often , and when I come I want to do whatever will interest you most . 
No , don't read to me , '' she decided . 
There are enough ready to do that . 
Tell me about our life and our people here , as they strike you . 
'' And she added , slowly You are a queer minister . 
You have not offered to pray with me ! '' I feel , '' I told her , more like asking you to pray for me . 
'' Relief continued her analysis . 
You have not told me that my affliction was a visitation from God , '' she added that it was discipline and well for me I had it . 
'' I don't believe it was from God , '' I said . 
I don't believe God had anything to do with it . 
And I rejoice that you have not let it wreck your life . 
'' She pressed my hand . 
Thank you for saying that , '' she murmured . 
If I thought God did it I could not love Him , and if I did not love Him I could not live . 
Please come and see me VERY often and tell me stories ! '' After that I collected stories for Relief . 
One of those which most amused her , I remember , was about my horse , and this encourages me to repeat it here . 
In my life in East Dennis I did not occupy the lonely little parsonage connected with my church , but in stead boarded with a friend a widow named Cro well . 
To keep in touch with my two churches , which were almost three miles apart , it became necessary to have a horse . 
We saw the animal and liked it but before closing the bargain we cannily asked the owner if the horse was perfectly sound , and if it was gentle with women . 
After it had gone through its paces , Miss Crowell and I leaned confidingly against its side , patting it and praising its beauty , and the horse seemed to enjoy our attentions . 
Five minutes later a frightful racket broke out in the barn sounds of stamping , kicking , and plunging , mingled with loud shouts . 
We ran to the scene of the trouble , and found our hired man'' rushing breathlessly toward the house . 
We insisted that he must have frightened or hurt her , but , sol emnly and with anxious looks behind , he protested that he had not . 
Finally Miss Crowell and I went into the barn , and received a dignified welcome from the new horse , which seemed pleased by our visit . 
Together we harnessed her and , without the least difficulty , drove her out into the yard . 
As soon as our man took the reins , however , she reared , kicked , and smashed our brand new buggy . 
We changed the man and had the buggy repaired , but by the end of the week the animal had smashed the buggy again . 
Then , with some natural resentment , we made a second visit to the man from whom we had bought her , and asked him why he had sold us such a horse . 
He said he had told us the exact truth . 
He firmly refused to take her back , and we had to make the best of the bar gain . 
As it was impossible to take care of her our selves , I gave some thought to the problem she pre sented , and finally devised a plan which worked very well . 
I hired a neighbor who was a small , slight man to take care of her , and made him wear his wife's sunbonnet and waterproof cloak whenever he ap proached the horse . 
The picture he presented in these garments still stands out pleasantly against the background of my Cape Cod memories . 
The horse , however , did not share our appreciation of it . 
But no man could drive her , and when I drove to church I was forced to hitch and un hitch her myself . 
No one else could do it , though many a gallant and subsequently resentful man at tempted the feat . 
At his approach she rose on her hind legs , and when he grasped her bridle she lifted him off his feet . 
His expression as he hung in mid air was an extraordinary mixture of surprise and regret . 
The previous owner had called the horse Daisy , and we never changed the name , though it always seemed sadly inappropriate . 
Time proved , however , that there were advantages in the ownership of Daisy . 
No man would allow his wife or daughter to drive behind her , and no one wanted to borrow her . 
Another Cape Cod resident to whose memory I must offer tribute in these pages was Polly Ann Sears one of the dearest and best of my parish ioners . 
She had six sons , and when five had gone to sea she insisted that the sixth must remain at home . 
In vain the boy begged her to let him follow his brothers . 
The sea , she said , should not swallow all her boys she had given it five she must keep one . 
As it happened , the son she kept at home was the only one who was drowned . 
I tried to be a special Providence , '' she moaned , and the one boy I kept home was the only boy I lost . 
I ain't a goin' to be a Providence no more . 
'' The number of funerals on Cape Cod was tragi cally large . 
Besides the victims of the sea , many of the resi dents who had drifted away were brought back to sleep their last sleep within sound of the waves . 
He poked his toe in the sand for a moment and then said , slowly Wal , I reckon it's because the Cape has such warm , comfortable sand to lie down in . 
'' My friend Mrs. Addy lay in the Crowell family lot , and during my pastorate at East Dennis I preached the funeral sermon of her father , and later of her mother . 
In its sudden ness , Mary's death , in , was as a thunderbolt from the blue for she had been in perfect health three days before she passed away . 
When I arrived on the second day of her illness , knowing nothing of it until I reached her , I found her already past hope . 
This could not be realized , for my brother in law was absent on business , and with all his haste in returning did not reach his wife's side until after her death . 
'' When I returned to East Dennis I brought my mother and Mary's three children with me , and they remained throughout the spring and summer . 
They were always appreciative , and as time passed they became more reconciled to the career I had chosen , and which in former days had filled them with such dire forebodings . 
After I had been in East Dennis four years I be gan to feel that I was getting into a rut . 
It seemed to me that all I could do in that particular field had been done . 
I entered the Boston Medical School in , and obtained my diploma as a full fledged physician in . 
During this period I also began to lecture for the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association , of which Lucy Stone was president . 
Here again , in my association with the women of the streets , I realized the limitations of my work in the ministry and in medicine . 
As minister to soul and body one could do little for these women . 
For such as them , one's efforts must begin at the very foundation of the social structure . 
Laws for them must be made and enforced , and some of those laws could only be made and enforced by women . 
So many great avenues of life were opening up before me that my Cape Cod environment seemed almost a prison where I was held with tender force . 
I loved my people and they loved me but the big outer world was calling , and I could not close my ears to its summons . 
The suffrage lectures helped to keep me contented , however , and I was certainly busy enough to find happiness in my work . 
I was in Boston three nights a week , and during these nights subject to sick calls at any hour . 
My favorite associates were Dr . 
Caroline Hastings , our professor of anatomy , and little Dr . 
Mary Safford , a mite of a woman with an indomitable soul . 
I , too , could fre quently be found there often , no doubt , to the dis advantage of my patients . 
I was quite famous in three Boston alleys Maiden's Lane , Fellows Court , and Andrews Court . 
The first was that of a big Irishman who had pneumonia . 
When I looked him over I was as much frightened as he was . 
I had got as far as pneu monia in my course , and I realized that here was a bad case of it . 
I knew what to do . 
The patient must be carefully packed in towels wrung out of cold water . 
When I called for towels I found that there was nothing in the place but a dish towel , which I washed with portentous gravity . 
The man owned but one shirt , and , in deference to my visit , his wife had removed that to wash it . 
I packed the patient in the dish towel , wrapped him in a piece of an old shawl , and left after instructing his wife to repeat the process . 
When I reached home I remem bered that the patient must be packed carefully , '' and I knew that his wife would do it carelessly . 
That meant great risk to the man's life . 
My im pulse was to rush back to him at once , but this would never do . 
It would destroy all confidence in the doctor . 
I walked the floor for three hours , and then casually strolled in upon my patient , finding him , to my great relief , better than I had left him . 
As I was leaving , a child rushed into the room , begging me to come to an upper floor in the same building . 
The baby's got the croup , '' she gasped , an' he's chokin' to death . 
'' We had not reached croup in our course , and I had no idea what to do , but I valiantly accompanied the little girl . 
As we climbed the long flights of stairs to the top floor I remembered a conversation I had overheard between two medical students . 
'' When I reached the baby I listened , but could not tell which way it was strangling . 
However , I happened to have both medicines with me , so I called for two glasses and mixed the two remedies , each in its own glass . 
I gave them both to the mother , and told her to use them alternately , every fifteen minutes , until the baby was better . 
The baby got well but whether its recovery was due to the spongia or to the aconite I never knew . 
In my senior year I fell in love with an infant of three , named Patsy . 
He was one of nine children when I was called to deliver his mother of her tenth child . 
She was drunk when I reached her , and so were two men who lay on the floor in the same room . 
I had them carried out , and after the mother and baby had been attended to I noticed Patsy . 
He was the most beautiful child I had ever seen with eyes like Italian skies and yellow hair in tight curls over his adorable little head but he was covered with filthy rags . 
I borrowed him , took him home with me , and fed and bathed him , and the next day fitted him out with new clothes . 
Every hour I had him tightened his hold on my heart strings . 
When I went to see him a few days later I found him again in his horrible rags . 
His mother had pawned his new clothes for drink , and she was deeply under its in fluence . 
But no pressure I could exert then or later would make her part with Patsy . 
Finally , for my own peace of mind , I had to give up hope of getting him but I have never ceased to regret the little adopted son I might have had . 
VII THE GREAT CAUSE There is a theory that every seven years each human being undergoes a complete physical reconstruction , with corresponding changes in his mental and spiritual make up . 
Possibly it was due to this reconstruction that , at the end of seven years on Cape Cod , my soul sent forth a sudden call to arms . 
I was , it reminded me , taking life too easily I was in danger of settling into an agreeable routine . 
I was happy , for I loved my people and they seemed to love me . 
But all the time , deep in my heart , I realized the needs of the outside world , and heard its prayer for workers . 
My theological and medical courses in Boston , with the experiences that accompanied them , had greatly widened my horizon . 
They were fighting great battles , these women for suffrage , for temperance , for social purity and in every word they uttered I heard a rallying cry . 
So it was that , in , I suddenly pulled myself up to a radical decision and sent my resignation to the trustees of the two churches whose pastor I had been since . 
The action caused a demonstration of regret which made it hard to keep to my resolution and leave these men and women whose friendship was among the dearest of my possessions . 
But when we had all talked things over , many of them saw the situation as I did . 
No doubt there were those , too , who felt that a change of ministry would be good for the churches . 
To com fort her I predicted that she would now have a man minister doubtless a very nice man . 
But the young person continued to sniffle disconsolately . 
I don't want a man , '' she wailed . 
I don't like to see men in pulpits . 
'' Her grief culminated in a final outburst . 
They're all arms and legs ! '' she sobbed . 
When my resignation was finally accepted , and the time of my departure drew near , the men of the community spent much of their leisure in discussing it and me . 
The social center of East Dennis was a certain grocery , to which almost every man in town regularly wended his way , and from which all the gossip of the town emanated . 
Then , after each session , they would return home and repeat the gossip to their wives . 
I used to say that I would give a dollar to any woman in East Dennis who could quote a bit of gossip which did not come from the men at that grocery . 
As he had expected , Captain Doane immediately pounced on him . 
What's the matter with you ? '' demanded the old man . 
The other men , who were in the plot , grinned , and this added the last touch to Captain Doane's indignation . 
He sprang to his feet . 
One of his peculiarities was a constant mis use of words , and now , in his excitement , he outdid himself . 
You've made an incineration against Miss Shaw , '' he shouted . 
Has that been charged against any other minister here ? '' The men roared with laughter , and Captain Doane sat down , looking sheepish . 
Later I was told of the incineration'' and his elo quent defense of me , and I thanked him for it . 
'' Haven't I done any good ? '' I asked . 
Sartin you have , '' he assured me , heartily . 
'' Well , '' I said , can't you put your finger on that ? '' The Captain looked startled . 
When I heard you preach , '' he explained , I gen'ally followed you through and I knowed where you was a comin' out . 
But these young fellers that come from the theological school why , Sister Shaw , the Lord Himself don't know where they're comin' out ! '' For a moment he pondered . 
Then he uttered a valedictory which I have always been glad to recall as his last message , for I never saw him again . 
But before you left , Sister Shaw , why , all the crooked places was wore off and everything was as smooth as silk . 
'' Yes , '' I agreed , and that was the time to leave when everything was running smoothly . 
'' All is changed on Cape Cod since those days , thirty years ago . 
The old families have died or moved away , and those who replaced them were of a dif ferent type . 
I am happy in having known and loved the Cape as it was , and in having gathered there a store of delightful memories . 
We were entering upon a deeply significant period . 
For the first time women were going into industrial competition with men , and already men were in tensely resenting their presence . 
Around me I saw women overworked and underpaid , doing men's work at half men's wages , not because their work was inferior , but because they were women . 
As man's equal before the law , woman could demand her rights , asking favors from no one . 
With all my heart I joined in the crusade of the men and women who were fight ing for her . 
My real work had begun . 
Of them all , my favorite was Whittier . 
He had been present at my graduation from the theo logical school , and now he often attended our suffrage meetings . 
I could have offered the same tribute to Whittier . 
At our meetings he was like a vesper bell chiming above a battle field . 
Once , I remember , Stephen Foster insisted on having the word tyranny'' put into a resolution , stating that women were deprived of suffrage by the TYRANNY of men . 
Mr. Garrison objected , and the debate that followed was the most exciting I have ever heard . 
The combatants actually had to ad journ before they could calm down sufficiently to go on with their meeting . 
Knowing the stimulating atmosphere to which he had grown accustomed , I was not surprised to have Theodore Weld explain to me long afterward , why he no longer attended suffrage meetings . 
After his death I gave two suffrage lectures in Concord , and each time Mrs. Emerson paid for the hall . 
At these lectures Louisa M. Alcott graced the assem bly with her splendid , wholesome presence , and on both occasions she was surrounded by a group of boys . 
She frankly cared much more for boys than for girls , and boys inevitably gravitated to her when ever she entered a place where they were . 
'' My gen eral impression of her was that of a fresh breeze blowing over wide moors . 
She was as different as possible from exquisite little Mrs. Emerson , who , in her daintiness and quiet charm , suggested an old New England garden . 
Both women were utterly indifferent to the details of their appearance , but they were splendid workers and leading spirits in the New England Woman's Club . 
Abby May was elected president , and all the suffragists voted for her . 
Subsequently Kate Gannett Wells began her anti suffrage campaign . 
Mrs. Wells was the first anti suffragist I ever knew in this country . 
Before her there had been Mrs. Dahlgren , wife of Admiral Dahlgren , and Mrs. William Tecumseh Sher man . 
On one occasion Elizabeth Cady Stanton chal lenged Mrs. Dahlgren to a debate on woman suffrage , and in the light of later events Mrs. Dahlgren's reply is amusing . 
For Julia Ward Howe I had an immense admira tion but , though from first to last I saw much of her , I never felt that I really knew her . 
She was a woman of the widest culture , interested in every progressive movement . 
Of Frances E. Willard , who frequently came to Boston , I saw a great deal , and we soon became close ly associated in our work . 
The nearest I ever came to carrying it out was in warning Miss Willard that she was constantly defying all the laws of personal hygiene . 
She never rested , rarely seemed to sleep , and had to be reminded at the table that she was there for the purpose of eating food . 
Like Aunt Susan , '' Miss Willard paid no heed to cold or heat or hunger , to privation or fatigue . 
In their relations to such trifles both women were dis embodied spirits . 
Another woman doing wonderful work at this time was Mrs. Quincy Shaw , who had recently started her day nurseries for the care of tenement children whose mothers labored by the day . 
These nurseries were new in Boston , as was the kindergarten system she also established . 
I had merely wished to add a certain amount of medical knowledge to my mental equipment . 
The Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association , of which Lucy Stone was president , had frequently employed me as a lecturer during the last two years of my pastorate . 
Now it offered me a salary of one hundred dollars a month as a lecturer and organizer . 
The amount seemed too large , and I told Mrs. Stone as much , after which I humbly fixed my salary at fifty dollars a month . 
At the end of a year of work I felt that I had made good'' then I asked for and received the one hundred dollars a month originally offered me . 
Elated by my share in this success , I asked that my salary should be increased to one hundred and twenty five dollars a month but this was not done . 
Instead , I received a valuable lesson . 
The time seemed to have come to make a practical stand in defense of my principles , and I did so by resigning and arranging an independent lecture tour . 
The first month after my resignation I earned three hundred dollars . 
Later I frequently earned more than that , and very rarely less . 
Eventually I lec tured under the direction of the Slaton Lecture Bureau of Chicago , and later still for the Redpath Bureau of Boston . 
My experience with the Red path people was especially gratifying . 
Mrs. Liver more , who was their only woman lecturer , was grow ing old and anxious to resign her work . 
She saw in me a possible successor , and asked them to take me on their list . 
They promptly refused , explain ing that I must make a reputation'' before they could even consider me . 
A year later they wrote me , making a very good offer , which I accepted . 
It may be worth while to mention here that through my lecture work at this period I earned all the money I have ever saved . 
My special subjects , of course , were the two I had most at heart suffrage and temperance . 
In those days thirty years ago the lecture bu reaus were wholly regardless of the comfort of their lecturers . 
Usually these things did not trouble me . 
They were high adventures which I enjoyed at the time and afterward loved to recall . 
But there was an occasional hiatus in my optimism . 
When we reached the station it was closed , but my driver deposited me on the platform and drove away , leaving me alone . 
The night was cold and very dark . 
All day I had been feeling ill and in the evening had suffered so much pain that I had finished my lecture with great difficulty . 
Now toward midnight , in this desolate spot , miles from any house , I grew alarmingly worse . 
I am not easily frightened , but that time I was sure I was going to die . 
Off in the darkness , very far away , as it seemed , I saw a faint light , and with infinite effort I dragged myself toward it . 
The switchman stationed there heard the cry I was able to utter , and came to my assistance . 
I sank into a comatose condition shot through with pain . 
Tow ard two o'clock in the morning he waked me and told me my train was coming , asking if I felt able to take it . 
I decided to make the effort . 
He dared not leave his post to help me , but he signaled to the train , and I began my progress back to the station . 
I never clearly remembered how I got there but I arrived and was helped into a car by a brakeman . 
He drove me to their home , and I was cared for . 
To be snowed in'' was a frequent experience . 
Once , in Minnesota , I was one of a dozen travelers who were driven in an omnibus from a country hotel to the nearest railroad station , about two miles away . 
It was snowing hard , and the driver left us on the station platform and departed . 
Time passed , but the train we were waiting for did not come . 
The only thing we could do was to spend the night in the railroad station . 
I was the only woman in the group , and my fellow passengers were cattlemen who whiled away the hours by smoking , telling stories , and exchanging pocket flasks . 
The station had a telegraph operator who occupied a tiny box by himself , and he finally invited me to share the privacy of his microscopic quarters . 
I went , and slept peacefully until morning . 
Then we all returned to the hotel , the men going ahead and shoveling a path . 
Again , one Sunday , I was snowbound in a train near Faribault , and this time also I was the only woman among a number of cattlemen . 
They were an odoriferous lot , who smoked diligently and played cards without ceasing , but in deference to my pres ence they swore only mildly and under their breath . 
At last they wearied of their game , and one of them rose and came to me . 
I heard you lecture the other night , '' he said , awkwardly , and I've bin tellin' the fellers about it . 
We'd like to have a lecture now . 
, and I was glad to create a diversion . 
I agreed to give them a lecture , and they went through the train , which consisted of two day coaches , and brought in the remaining passengers . 
Then I delivered the lecture , and they listened attentively . 
When I had finished they seemed to think that some slight return was in order , so they proceeded to make a bed for me . 
They took the bottoms out of two seats , arranged them crosswise , and one man folded his overcoat into a pillow . 
Inspired by this , two others immediately donated their fur overcoats for upper and lower coverings . 
To drive fifty or sixty miles in a day to meet a lecture engagement was a frequent experience . 
Once during a thirty mile drive , when the thermometer was twenty degrees below zero , I suddenly realized that my face was freezing . 
I opened my satchel , took out the tissue paper that protected my best gown , and put the paper over my face as a veil , tucking it inside of my bonnet . 
When I reached my destination the tissue was a perfect mask , frozen stiff , and I had to be lifted from the sleigh . 
I was due on the lecture platform in half an hour , so I drank a huge bowl of boiling ginger tea and appeared on time . 
That night I went to bed expecting an attack of pneumonia as a result of the exposure , but I awoke next morning in superb condition . 
I possess what is called an iron constitution , '' and in those days I needed it . 
During the long winters of my girl hood wolves had frequently slunk around our log cabin , and at times in the lumber camps we had even heard them prowling on the roofs . 
From time to time I turned to look at them , and the picture they made as they came on and on is one I shall never forget . 
They were so near that I could see their eyes and slavering jaws , and they were as noiseless as things in a dream . 
Some of the memories of those days have to do with personal encounters , brief but poignant . 
Once when I was giving a series of Chautauqua lectures , I spoke at the Chautauqua in Pontiac , Illinois . 
I went and spoke for half an hour , carrying away a memory of the place and of the boys which haunted me for months . 
I saw that he wanted to speak and dared not , so I nodded to him . 
You think you know me , don't you ? '' I asked , when he came to my side . 
Yes'm , I do know you , '' he told me , eagerly . 
You are Miss Shaw , and you talked to us boys at Pontiac last year . 
I'm out on parole now , but I 'ain't forgot . 
Then he said , slowly , Well , you didn't talk as if you thought we were all bad . 
'' My boy , '' I told him , I don't think you are all bad . 
We had a long and intimate talk , from which grew the abiding interest I feel in boys to day . 
Instead , it appeared , I was to lecture on The Missing Link . 
I repeatedly tried to reach the chairman who was to preside at the entertain ment , but failed . 
At last I went to the hall at the hour appointed , and found the local committee there , graciously waiting to receive me . 
Without wasting precious minutes in preliminaries , I asked why they had advertised me as the woman who had whistled before Queen Victoria . 
'' Why , didn't you whistle before her ? '' they ex claimed in grieved surprise . 
I certainly did not , '' I explained . 
Moreover , I was never called The American Nightingale , and I have never lectured on The Missing Link . 
Where DID you get that subject ? It was not on the list I sent you . 
'' The members of the committee seemed dazed . 
They withdrew to a corner and consulted in whis pers . 
Then , with clearing brow , the spokesman re turned . 
'' But I don't know anything about the missing link , '' I protested , and I can't speak on it . 
'' Now , come , '' they begged . 
Why , you'll have to ! We've sold all our tickets for that lecture . 
The whole town has turned out to hear it . 
'' Then , as I maintained a depressed silence , one of them had a bright idea . 
I'll tell you how to fix it ! '' he cried . 
Speak on any subject you please , but bring in something about the missing link every few minutes . 
That will satis fy 'em . 
'' Very well , '' I agreed , reluctantly . 
Open the meeting with a song . 
Get the audience to sing America' or The Star spangled Banner . 
That will give me a few minutes to think , and I will see what can be done . 
'' Led by a very nervous chairman , the big audience began to sing , and under the inspiration of the music the solution of our problem flashed into my mind . 
It is easy , '' I told myself . 
Woman is the miss ing link in our government . 
I'll give them a suf frage speech along that line . 
VIII DRAMA IN THE LECTURE FIELD My most dramatic experience occurred in a city in Michigan , where I was making a temperance campaign . 
It was an important lum ber and shipping center , and it harbored much intemperance . 
We were used to similar threats , so I proceeded with my preparations and held the meeting in the town skating rink a huge , bare , wooden structure . 
Just opposite the speak er's platform was a small gallery , and above that , in the ceiling , was a trap door . 
Before I had been speaking ten minutes I saw a man drop through this trap door to the balcony and climb from there to the main floor . 
As he reached the floor he shouted Fire ! '' and rushed out into the street . 
The next instant every person in the rink was up and a panic had started . 
I was very sure there was no fire , but I knew that many might be killed in the rush which was beginning . 
Sit down ! '' they repeated . 
A member of our local committee was standing beside my chair , speaking in a terrified whisper There IS a fire , Miss Shaw , '' he said . 
For God's sake get the people out QUICKLY ! '' The shock was so unexpected that my knees al most gave way . 
The people were still standing , wavering , looking uncertainly toward us . 
I raised my voice again , and if it sounded unnatural my hearers probably thought it was because I was speak ing so loudly . 
As we are already standing , '' I cried , and are all nervous , a little exercise will do us good . 
So march out , singing . 
'' Then he led the march down to the door , while the big audience swung into line and followed him , joining in the song . 
As soon as I was sure every one was safe , however , I experienced the most intense anger I had yet known . 
That episode did the temperance cause more good than a hundred ordinary meetings . 
Men who had been indifferent before became our friends and supporters , and at the fol lowing election we carried the town for prohibition by a big majority . 
There have been other occasions when our op ponents have not fought us fairly . 
When , escorted by a com mittee of leading women , I reached the building and tried to enter , we found that the men had locked us out . 
Our audience was gathering and filling the street , and we finally sent a courteous message to the men , assuming that they had forgotten us and re minding them of our position . 
The messenger re ported that the men would leave about eight , '' but that the room was black with smoke and filthy with tobacco juice . 
We waited patiently until eight o'clock , holding little outside meetings in groups , as our audience waited with us . 
'' Naturally , the waiting townswomen were deeply chagrined by this . 
So were many men in the out side crowd . 
After some discussion we decided to storm the hall and take possession . 
Within five minutes all the women had formed in line and were crowding up the back stairs and into the judge's room . 
We had a great meeting that night ! Another reminiscence may not be out of place . 
We were working for a prohibition amendment in the state of Pennsylvania , and the night before election I reached Coatesville . 
I had just com pleted six weeks of strenuous campaigning , and that day I had already conducted and spoken at two big outdoor meetings . 
When I entered the town hall of Coatesville I found it filled with women . 
Only a few men were there the rest were celebrating and campaigning in the streets . 
I thought so , '' I said . 
Now I intend to ask your indulgence . 
As we were leaving the hall one of Coatesville's prominent citizens stopped me . 
I wish you were a man , '' he said . 
The town was to have a big outdoor meeting to night , and the orator has failed us . 
There are thousands of men in the streets waiting for the speech , and the saloons are sending them free drinks to get them drunk and carry the town to morrow . 
'' Why , '' I said , I'll talk to them if you wish . 
'' Great Scott ! '' he gasped . 
I'd be afraid to let you . 
Something might happen ! '' If anything happens , it will be in a good cause , '' I reminded him . 
It was a gorgeous affair . 
There were flaring torches all around it , and a bull's eye , '' taken from the head of a locomotive , made an especially brilliant patch of light . 
The stand had been erected at a point where the city's four principal streets meet , and as far as I could see there were solid masses of citizens extending into these streets . 
Directly in front of me stood a huge and ex traordinarily repellent looking negro . 
I spoke for almost an hour . 
The speech at Coatesville was one of those three . 
At the end of it the good natured crowd cheered for ten minutes . 
The next day Coatesville voted for prohibition , and , rightly or wrongly , I have always believed that I helped to win that victory . 
The International Council of Women , it will be remembered , met in Chicago during the Fair , and I was invited to preach the sermon at the Sunday morning session . 
These made an impressive group , as they all wore their ministerial robes and for the first time I preached in a ministerial robe , ordered especially for that day . 
My father had come on to Chicago especially to hear my sermon , and had been invited to sit on the platform . 
Even yet he was not wholly reconciled to my public work , but he was beginning to take a deep interest in it . 
I greatly desired to please him and to satisfy Miss Anthony , who was extremely anxious that on that day of all days I should do my best . 
I gave an unusual amount of time and thought to that sermon , and at last evolved what I modestly believed to be a good one . 
I never write out a sermon in advance , but I did it this time , laboriously , and then memorized the effort . 
It was very late , and I knew we would not be interrupted . 
As she listened her face grew longer and longer and her lips drooped at the corners . 
But Susan B. Anthony was the frankest as well as the kindest of women . 
Reso lutely she shook her head . 
It's no good , Anna , '' she said firmly . 
You'll have to do better . 
You've polished and repolished that sermon until there's no life left in it . 
Besides , I don't care for your text . 
'' Then give me a text , '' I demanded , gloomily . 
I can't , '' said Aunt Susan . 
I was tired and bitterly disappointed , and both conditions showed in my reply . 
'' I suggested several , but she did not like them . 
At last I said , I have it Let no man take thy crown . 
'' That's it ! '' exclaimed Miss Anthony . 
Give us a good sermon on that text . 
After I had delivered it the next morning I went to my father to assist him from the platform . 
He was trembling , and his eyes were full of tears . 
He seized my arm and pressed it . 
Now I am ready to die , '' was all he said . 
I was so tired that I felt ready to die , too but his satisfaction and a glance at Aunt Susan's con tented face gave me the tonic I needed . 
Father died two years later , and as I was campaigning in California I was not with him at the end . 
Our last days together were perfect . 
I recall , too , with gratitude , a trifle which gave her a pleasure out of all proportion to what I had dreamed it would do . 
Its possession filled her with joy , and from the time it came until the day her eyes closed in their last sleep it was rarely beyond reach of her hand . 
I had also been invited by the Nor wegian women to preach in the State Church of Norway , but there we experienced obstacles . 
By the laws of Norway women are permitted to hold all public offices except those in the army , navy , and church a rather remarkable militant and spiritual combination . 
As a woman , therefore , I was denied the use of the church by the Minister of Church Affairs . 
The decision created great excitement and much delving into the law . 
It then appeared that if the use of a State Church is desired for a minister of a foreign country the government can give such per mission . 
It was thought that I might slip in through this loophole , and application was made to the government . 
The charge was taken up by the party opposed to the government party in Parliament , and the Minister of Church Affairs swiftly turned the whole matter over to his conferees . 
The Cabinet held a session , and by a vote of four to three decided NOT to allow a woman to preach in the State Church . 
I am happy to add that of the three who voted favorably on the question one was the Premier of Norway . 
Again the newspapers grasped their opportunity especially the organs of the opposition party . 
My rooms were filled with reporters , while daily the excitement grew . 
The question was brought up in Parliament , and I was invited to attend and hear the discussion there . 
I shall never forget my impression of the church itself when I entered it . 
It will always stand forth in my memory as one of the most beautiful churches I have ever visited . 
On every side were monu ments of dead heroes and statesmen , and the high , vaulted blue dome seemed like the open sky above our heads . 
The ushers were young women from the University of Upsala , wearing white uni versity caps with black vizors , and sashes in the university colors . 
The whole occasion was indescribably impressive , and I realized in every fiber the necessity of being worthy of it . 
Also , I experienced a sensation such as I had never known before , and which I can only describe as a seeming complete separation of my physical self from my spiritual self . 
It was as if my body stood aside and watched my soul enter that pulpit . 
There was no uncertainty , no nervousness , though usually I am very nervous when I begin to speak and when I had finished I knew that I had done my best . 
I was soon to learn more , for in Miss Anthony persuaded me to drop my temperance work and concentrate my energies on the suffrage cause . 
For a long time I hesitated . 
I was very happy in my connection with the Woman's Christian Temperance Union , and I knew that Miss Willard was depending on me to continue it . 
But Miss Anthony's arguments were irrefutable , and she was herself , as always , irresistible . 
You can't win two causes at once , '' she reminded me . 
You're merely scattering your energies . 
Be gin at the beginning . 
Win suffrage for women , and the rest will follow . 
'' As an added argument , she took me with her on her Kansas campaign , and after that no further arguments were needed . 
From then until her death , eighteen years later , Miss Anthony and I worked shoulder to shoulder . 
The most interesting lecture episode of our first Kansas campaign was my debate with Senator John J. Ingalls . 
Before this , however , on our arrival at Atchison , Mrs. Ingalls gave a luncheon for Miss Anthony , and Rachel Foster Avery and I were also invited . 
Miss Anthony sat at the right of Senator Ingalls , and I at his left , while Mrs. Ingalls , of course , adorned the opposite end of her table . 
Mrs. Avery and I had just been entertained for several days at the home of a vegetarian friend who did not know how to cook vegetables , and we were both half starved . 
He was not in favor of suffrage for women , but he wished to know all sorts of things about the Cause , and we were anxious to have him know them . 
Also , whenever she had an especially toothsome morsel on the end of her fork she wickedly succeeded in catching my eye and thus adding the last sybaritic touch to her enjoyment . 
One of Senator Ingalls's most discussed personal peculiarities was the parting of his hair in the middle . 
Cartoonists and news paper writers always made much of this , so when I rose to reply I felt justified in mentioning it . 
Senator Ingalls , '' I began , parts his hair in the middle , as we all know , but he makes up for it by parting his figures on one side . 
Last night he gave you the short side of his figures . 
At the present time there are in the United States about eighteen million women of voting age . 
'' The audience seemed to enjoy this . 
The anti suffragists are fairly safe , '' I ended , as long as they remain on the plane of prophecy . 
It was shortly after this encounter that I had two traveling experiences which nearly cost me my life . 
One of them occurred in Ohio at the time of a spring freshet . 
I know of no state that can cover itself with water as completely as Ohio can , and for no apparent reason . 
On this occasion it was break ing its own record . 
The trestle was very high at that point , and I realized that if I turned and faced an oncoming train I would undoubtedly lose my nerve and fall . 
The next instant a policeman had me by the shoulders and was shaking me as if I had been a bad child . 
Occasionally a flash of humor , conscious or un conscious , lit up the gloom of a trying situation . 
Thus , in Parkersburg , West Virginia , the train I was on ran into a coal car . 
KEEP YOUR SEATS ! '' Nobody in our car was seriously hurt but , so great is the power of vested authority , no one smiled over that order but me . 
Many times my medical experience was useful . 
Once I was on a train which ran into a buggy and killed the woman in it . 
As I was the only doctor among the pas sengers , the child was turned over to me . 
I made up a bed on the seats and put the little patient there , but no woman in the car was able to assist me . 
The tragedy had made them hysterical , and on every side they were weeping and nerveless . 
The men were willing but inefficient , with the exception of one un couth woodsman whose trousers were tucked into his boots and whose hands were phenomenally big and awkward . 
But they were also very gentle , as I realized when he began to help me . 
Together we worked over the child , making it as comfortable as we could . 
It was hard ly necessary to tell my aide what I wanted done he seemed to know and even to anticipate my efforts . 
She was conscious by this time , and with the most exquisite gentleness my rustic Bayard lifted her in his arms to carry her off the train . 
Quite unnecessarily I motioned to him not to let her see her dead mother . 
And after the tragic hour in which I had learned to know him the crushed flower , from that man , seemed the best fee I had ever received . 
A. Bron son Alcott was among these , and Louisa M. Alcott , as well as Dr . 
Lozier and special stress is laid on Miss Anthony's sense of loss in the diminishing circle of her friends a loss which new friends and workers came forward , eager to supply . 
Chief among these , '' adds the record , was Anna Shaw , who , from the time of the International Coun cil in , gave her truest allegiance to Miss An thony . 
I had gone to bed indeed , I was almost asleep when she came , for the day had been as exhausting as it was interesting . 
But notwith standing the lateness of the hour , Aunt Susan , '' then nearing seventy , was still as fresh and as full of enthusiasm as a young girl . 
Hours passed and the dawn peered wanly through the windows , but still Miss Anthony talked of the Cause always of the Cause and of what we two must do for it . 
The previous evening she had been too busy to eat any dinner , and I greatly doubt whether she had eaten any luncheon at noon . 
She had been on her feet for hours at a time , and she had held numerous discussions with other women she wished to inspire to special effort . 
Suddenly she stopped , looked at the gas jets paling in the morning light that filled the room , and for a fleeting instant seemed surprised . 
In the next she had dismissed from her mind the realization that we had talked all night . 
Why should we not talk all night ? It was part of our work . 
She threw off the enveloping rug and rose . 
I must dress now , '' she said , briskly . 
I've called a committee meeting before the morning session . 
'' On her way to the door nature smote her with a rare reminder , but even then she did not realize that it was personal . 
Perhaps , '' she remarked , tenta tively , you ought to have a cup of coffee . 
'' That was Aunt Susan . 
'' And in the eighteen years which followed I had daily illustrations of her superiority to purely human weaknesses . 
To her the hardships we underwent later , in our Western campaigns for woman suffrage , were as the airiest trifles . 
To me she was an unceasing inspira tion the torch that illumined my life . 
Like most great leaders , she took one's best work for granted , and was chary with her praise and even when praise was given it usually came by indirect routes . 
I recall with amusement that the highest compliment she ever paid me in public involved her in a tangle from which , later , only her quick wit extricated her . 
They will not accept the fact that I am a Quaker or , rather , they seem to think a Quaker is an infidel . 
I am glad you are a Methodist , for now they cannot claim that we are not orthodox . 
For once in her life Miss Anthony lost her presence of mind she did not know how to meet the situation , for she had no idea what had caused the laughter . 
It bubbled forth again and again during the eve ning , and each time Miss Anthony received the dem onstration with the same air of puzzled surprise . 
When we had returned to our hotel rooms I explained the matter to her . 
I do not remember now where I had acquired my own sinful knowledge , but that night I faced Aunt Susan'' from the pedestal of a sophisticated worldling . 
Don't you know what a right bower is ? '' I de manded , sternly . 
Of course I do , '' insisted Aunt Susan . 
'' It's a right hand man the kind one can't do without . 
'' It is a card , '' I told her , firmly a leading card in a game called euchre . 
'' Aunt Susan'' was dazed . 
I didn't know it had anything to do with cards , '' she mused , mournfully . 
What must they think of me ? '' What they thought became quite evident . 
The newspapers made countless jokes at our expense , and there were significant smiles on the faces in the audience that awaited us the next night . 
When Miss Anthony walked upon the platform she at once proceeded to clear herself of the tacit charge against her . 
When I came to your town , '' she began , cheer fully , I had been warned that you were a very religious lot of people . 
I wanted to impress upon you the fact that Miss Shaw and I are religious , too . 
But I admit that when I told you she was my right bower I did not know what a right bower was . 
I have learned that , since last night . 
'' She waited until the happy chortles of her hearers had subsided , and then went on . 
'' That time the joke was on the audience . 
'' I invariably found some ex cuse to go there and report to her . 
To keep up with her I literally bounded at her side . 
A certain amount of independent lecturing was necessary for me , for I had to earn my living . 
Then it was a very simple one , and she lived with the utmost economy . 
From that time on we traveled and lectured together so con stantly that each of us developed an almost uncanny knowledge of the other's mental processes . 
At any point of either's lecture the other could pick it up and carry it on a fortunate condition , as it some times became necessary to do this . 
Miss Anthony was subject to contractions of the throat , which for the moment caused a slight strangulation . 
On such occasions of which there were several she would turn to me and indicate her helplessness . 
Then I would repeat her last sentence , complete her speech , and afterward make my own . 
The first time this happened we were in Washing ton , and Aunt Susan'' stopped in the middle of a word . 
She could not speak she merely motioned to me to continue for her , and left the stage . 
'' For an instant I did not catch his meaning , nor the implication in his knowing smile . 
Very clever , that strangling bit , and your going on with the speech , '' he repeated . 
It hit the au dience hard . 
'' Surely , '' I protested , you don't think it was a deliberate thing that we planned or rehearsed it . 
'' He stared at me incredulously . 
We never wrote out our speeches , but our subject was always suffrage or some ramifica tion of suffrage , and , naturally , we had thoroughly digested each other's views . 
It is said by my friends that I write my speeches on the tips of my fingers for I always make my points on my fingers and have my fingers named for points . 
When I plan a speech I decide how many points I wish to make and what those points shall be . 
From Miss Anthony , more than from any one else , I learned to keep cool in the face of interruptions and of the small annoyances and disasters inevitable in campaigning . 
Often we were able to help each other out of embarrassing situations , and one incident of this kind occurred during our campaign in South Dakota . 
To elevate her above her audience , she was given an empty dry goods box to stand on . 
Every woman present seemed to have brought children with her , doubtless because she could not leave them alone at home and babies were crying and fretting on all sides . 
Sud denly , however , he discovered her feet on the dry goods box , about on a level with his head . 
They were clad in black stockings and low shoes they moved about oddly they fascinated him . 
With a yelp of interest he grabbed for them and began pinching them to see what they were . 
His howls ceased he was happy . 
But it was a great relief to have the child quiet , so she bore the infliction of the pinching as long as she could . 
When endurance had found its limit she slipped back out of reach , and as his new plaything receded the boy uttered shrieks of disapproval . 
The performance was repeated half a dozen times . 
Each time the ankles retreated the baby yelled . 
I think your little boy is hot and thirsty , '' she said , gently . 
If you would take him out of the crowd and give him a drink of water and unfasten his clothes , I am sure he would be more comfortable . 
'' Before she had finished speaking the woman had sprung to her feet and was facing her with fierce indignation . 
The majority of those in the audience seemed to sympathize with her . 
They had not seen the episode of the feet , and they thought Miss Anthony was complaining of the child's crying . 
Their children were crying , too , and they felt that they had all been criticized . 
Other women rose and followed the irate mother , and many men gallantly followed them . 
It seemed clear that motherhood had been outraged . 
Miss Anthony was greatly depressed by the epi sode , and she was not comforted by a prediction one man made after the meeting . 
You've lost at least twenty votes by that little affair , '' he told her . 
Well , '' she said , if those men knew how my ankles felt I would have won twenty votes by enduring the torture as long as I did . 
'' The next day we had a second meeting . 
At least half a dozen of them were crying , and I had to shout to make my voice heard above their uproar . 
Miss Anthony remarked afterward that there seemed to be a contest between me and the infants to see which of us could make more noise . 
The audience was plainly getting rest less under the combined effect , and finally a man in the rear rose and added his voice to the tumult . 
No , indeed , '' I yelled back . 
When the speech was finished and we were alone together , Miss Anthony put her arm around my shoulder and drew me to her side . 
Well , Anna , '' she said , gratefully , you've cer tainly evened us up on motherhood this time . 
'' That South Dakota campaign was one of the most difficult we ever made . 
It extended over nine months and it is impossible to describe the poverty which prevailed throughout the whole rural com munity of the State . 
There had been three con secutive years of drought . 
'' Our talks with the despairing drivers of these wagons are among my most tragic memories . 
They had lost everything except what they had with them , and they were going East to leave the wom an'' with her father and try to find work . 
For the howl of the wolf is like the cry of a child from the grave . 
'' Many days , and in all kinds of weather , we rode forty and fifty miles in uncovered wagons . 
Many nights we shared a one room cabin with all the mem bers of the family . 
But the greatest hardship we suffered was the lack of water . 
There was very little good water in the state , and the purest water was so brackish that we could hardly drink it . 
The more we drank the thirstier we became , and when the water was made into tea it tasted worse than when it was clear . 
A bath was the rarest of luxuries . 
The only available fuel was buffalo manure , of which the odor permeated all our food . 
But despite these handicaps we were happy in our work , for we had some great meetings and many wonderful experiences . 
When we reached the Black Hills we had more of this genuine campaigning . 
I recall with special clearness one ride from Hill City to Custer City . 
Our host at Custer City lent Miss Anthony his big buffalo over coat , and his wife lent hers to me . 
They also heated blocks of wood for our feet , and with these pro tections we started . 
A full moon hung in the sky . 
The trees were covered with hoar frost , and the cold , still air seemed to sparkle in the brilliant light . 
It was daylight when we reached the little sta tion at Buffalo Gap where we were to take the train . 
This was not due , however , for half an hour , and even then it did not come . 
The station was only large enough to hold the stove , the ticket office , and the inevitable cuspidor . 
There was barely room in which to walk between these and the wall . 
Miss Anthony sat down on the floor . 
I had a few raisins in my bag , and we divided them for breakfast . 
An hour passed , and another , and still the train did not come . 
This disappointment , following our all day and all night drive to keep our appointment , aroused Miss Anthony's fighting spirit . 
She sent me out to rent the theater for the evening , and to have some hand bills printed and distributed , announcing that we would speak . 
At three o'clock she made the concession to her seventy years of lying down for an hour's rest . 
When evening came the crowd which had assem bled was so great that men and women sat in the windows and on the stage , and stood in the flies . 
Night attractions were rare in that Dakota town , and here was something new . 
Nobody went to church , so the churches were forced to close . 
We had a glorious meeting . 
Both Miss Anthony and I were in excellent fighting trim , and Miss Anthony remarked that the only thing lacking to make me do my best was a sick headache . 
The collection we took up paid all our expenses , the church singers sang for us , the great audience was interested , and the whole occasion was an inspiring success . 
The meeting ended about half after ten o'clock , and I remember taking Miss Anthony to our hotel and escorting her to her room . 
She had found me lying on the cover of my bed , fully clothed even to my bonnet and shoes . 
After all our work , we did not win Dakota that year , but Miss Anthony bore the disappointment with the serenity she always showed . 
To her a failure was merely another opportunity , and I men tion our experience here only to show of what she was capable in her gallant seventies . 
But I should misrepresent her if I did not show her human and sentimental side as well . 
With all her detachment from human needs she had emotional moments , and of these the most satisfying came when she was listening to music . 
When Nordica sang , half an hour later , she sang directly to Miss Anthony , looking into her eyes and Aunt Susan'' listened with her own eyes full of tears . 
When the last notes had been sung she went to the singer and put both arms around her . 
The music had carried her back to her girlhood and to the sentiment of sixteen . 
Oh , Nordica , '' she sighed , I could die listening to such singing ! '' Another example of her unquenchable youth has also a Chicago setting . 
During the World's Fair a certain clergyman made an especially violent stand in favor of closing the Fair grounds on Sunday . 
Miss Anthony took issue with him . 
'' The clergyman was horrified . 
Would you like to have a son of yours go to Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show on Sunday ? '' he demanded . 
Of course I would , '' admitted Miss Anthony . 
In fact , I think he would learn more there than from the sermons preached in some churches . 
, who , of course , was delighted with it . 
He at once wrote to Miss Anthony , thanking her for the breadth of her views , and offering her a box for his Show . 
'' She had no strong desire to see the performance , but some of us urged her to accept the invitation and to take us with her . 
She was always ready to do anything that would give us pleasure , so she promised that we should go the next afternoon . 
When she presented her note and asked for a box , the local manager looked doubtfully at the delegation . 
A box only holds six , '' he objected , logically . 
Miss Anthony , who had given no thought to that slight detail , looked us over and smiled her seraphic smile . 
It was a striking picture this meeting of the pioneer man and woman and , poor as I am , I would give a hundred dollars for a snapshot of it . 
On many occasions I saw instances of Miss An thony's prescience and one of these was connected with the death of Frances E. Willard . 
Aunt Susan'' had called on Miss Willard , and , coming to me from the sick room , had walked the floor , beating her hands together as she talked of the visit . 
Frances Willard is dying , '' she exclaimed , pas sionately . 
She is dying , and she doesn't know it , and no one around her realizes it . 
She is lying there , seeing into two worlds , and making more plans than a thousand women could carry out in ten years . 
She has the most extraor dinary clearness of vision . 
There should be a stenog rapher in that room , and every word she utters should be taken down , for every word is golden . 
They can't realize that she is going . 
I told Anna Gordon the truth , but she won't believe it . 
'' Miss Willard died a few days later , with a sudden ness which seemed to be a terrible shock to those around her . 
Of Aunt Susan's'' really remarkable lack of self consciousness we who worked close to her had a thousand extraordinary examples . 
The exercises of the day had not yet begun , and Miss Anthony stopped short and looked around for an explanation of the outburst . 
It never for a moment occurred to her that the tribute was to her . 
What has happened , Anna ? '' she asked at last . 
You happened , Aunt Susan , '' I had to explain . 
In this Aunt Susan'' artlessly joined , clapping her hands as hard as she could . 
This is all for you , Aunt Susan , '' I whispered , so it isn't your time to applaud . 
'' Aunt Susan'' continued to clap . 
Nonsense , '' she said , briskly . 
She said it after the unex pected and wonderful ovation she had received from the German people , and certainly throughout her inspiring life nothing had happened that moved her more deeply . 
For some time Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt , of whose splendid work for the Cause I shall later have more to say , had cherished the plan of forming an International Suffrage Alliance . 
A committee was appointed to meet in Berlin in , just before the meeting of the International Council of Women , and Miss Anthony was appointed chairman of the committee . 
At first the plan of the committee was not welcomed by the International Council there was even a sus picion that its purpose was to start a rival organiza tion . 
But it met , a constitution was framed , and officers were elected , Mrs. Catt the ideal choice for the place being made president . 
It was represented to her that the in terests of the Council might suffer if she and other of its leading speakers were also leaders in the suf frage movement . 
In the interest of harmony , there fore , she followed the wishes of the Council's presi dent to my great unhappiness and to that of other suffragists . 
The entire audience rose , men jumped on their chairs , and the cheering continued without a break for ten minutes . 
I prayed that the loss of a tribute which would have meant so much might be made up to her , and it was . 
The next morning the leading Berlin newspaper , in reporting the debate and describing the spontaneous tribute to Miss Anthony , closed with these sentences The Americans call her Aunt Susan . 
She is our Aunt Susan , too ! '' Throughout the remainder of Miss Anthony's visit she was the most honored figure at the Inter national Council . 
When the Em press of Germany gave her reception to the officers of the Council , she crowned the hospitality of her people in a characteristically gracious way . 
We must not let her grow weary . 
'' In her turn , Miss Anthony was fascinated by the Empress . 
She could not keep her eyes off that charming royal lady . 
Probably the thing that most impressed her was the ability of her Majesty as a linguist . 
And here I am , '' mourned Aunt Susan , '' speak ing only one language , and that not very well . 
It happened that I had not taken my clerical robes with me I am constantly forgetting those clerical robes ! so the pastor of the church kindly offered me his robes . 
Now the pastor was six feet tall and broad in pro portion , and I , as I have already confessed , am very short . 
His robes transformed me into such an absurd caricature of a preacher that it was quite impossible for me to wear them . 
What , then , were we to do ? Lacking clerical robes , the police would not allow me to utter six words . 
It was finally decided that the clergyman should meet the letter of the law by entering the pulpit in his robes and standing by my side while I delivered my sermon . 
Because , my dear Princess , '' I explained , I am a working woman . 
'' Nobody need KNOW that , '' murmured the Princess , calmly . 
On the contrary , '' I assured her , it is the first thing I should explain . 
'' But why ? '' the Princess wanted to know . 
I studied her in silence for a moment . 
She was a new and interesting type to me , and I was glad to exchange viewpoints with her . 
You are proud of your family , are you not ? '' I asked . 
You are proud of your great line ? '' The Princess drew herself up . 
Assuredly , '' she said . 
Very well , '' I continued . 
I am proud , too . 
What I have done I have done unaided , and , to be frank with you , I rather approve of it . 
This visit is among my most vivid memories . 
'' Now she could not conceal her disapproval of the other worldliness'' of Mrs. Besant , Mrs. Bright , and her daughter . 
At last , one day . 
sic the climax of the discussions came . 
But , Annie ! '' exclaimed Miss Anthony , patheti cally . 
We ARE here ! Our business is here ! It's our duty to do what we can here . 
'' Mrs. Besant seemed not to hear her . 
She was in a trance , gazing into the aeons . 
It was plain that she could not bring herself back from the other world , so Miss Anthony , perforce , accompanied her to it . 
Well , '' mused Aunt Susan , '' I should think he would have been surprised . 
He was so certain he was going to be dead that it must have been astounding to discover he wasn't . 
What was he doing in the other world ? '' Mrs. Besant heaved a deeper sigh . 
I am very much discouraged over Mr. Bradlaugh , '' she ad mitted , wanly . 
He is hovering too near this world . 
He cannot seem to get away from his mun dane interests . 
He is as much concerned with par liamentary affairs now as when he was on this plane . 
'' Humph ! '' said Miss Anthony that's the most sensible thing I've heard yet about the other world . 
Now , '' she ended , I shall be like Mr. Bradlaugh . 
I shall hover round and continue my work here . 
'' When Mrs. Besant had left the room Mrs. Bright felt that it was her duty to admonish Aunt Susan'' to be more careful in what she said . 
You are making too light of her creed , '' she ex postulated . 
You do not realize the important position Mrs. Besant holds . 
Why , in India , when she walks from her home to her school all those she meets prostrate themselves . 
Even the learned men prostrate themselves and put their faces on the ground as she goes by . 
'' Aunt Susan's'' voice , when she replied , took on the tones of one who is sorely tried . 
But why in Heaven's name does any sensible Englishwoman want a lot of heathen to prostrate themselves as she goes up the street ? '' she demanded , wearily . 
It's the most foolish thing I ever heard . 
'' The effort to win Miss Anthony over to the theo sophical doctrine was abandoned . 
And it's a better thing for this world that some of us think a little earthly common sense is more valuable than too much heavenly knowledge . 
'' X THE PASSING OF AUNT SUSAN'' On one occasion Miss Anthony had the doubt ful pleasure of reading her own obituary notices , and her interest in them was characteristically naive . 
She had made a speech at Lakeside , Ohio , during which , for the first time in her long experience , she fainted on the platform . 
I was not with her at the time , and in the excitement following her collapse it was rumored that she had died . 
Immediately the news was telegraphed to the Associated Press of New York , and from there flashed over the country . 
At Miss Anthony's home in Rochester a reporter rang the bell and abruptly informed her sister , Miss Mary Anthony , who came to the door , that Aunt Susan'' was dead . 
Fortunately Miss Mary had a cool head . 
I think , '' she said , that if my sister had died I would have heard about it . 
Please have your editors telegraph to Lakeside . 
'' The reporter departed , but came back an hour later to say that his newspaper had sent the tele gram and the reply was that Susan B. Anthony was dead . 
I have just received a better telegram than that , '' remarked Mary Anthony . 
Mine is from my sister she tells me that she fainted to night , but soon recovered and will be home to morrow . 
'' Nevertheless , the next morning the American newspapers gave much space to Miss Anthony's obituary notices , and Aunt Susan'' spent some in teresting hours reading them . 
One that pleased her vastly was printed in the Wichita Eagle , whose editor , Mr. Murdock , had been almost her bitterest op ponent . 
He had often exhausted his brilliant vo cabulary in editorial denunciations of suffrage and suffragists , and Miss Anthony had been the special target of his scorn . 
It did not , and Mr. Murdock , though never again quite as bitter as he had been , soon resumed the free editorial expression of his anti suffrage sentiments . 
Times have changed , however , and to day his son , now a member of Congress , is one of our strongest supporters in that body . 
In it became plain that Miss Anthony's health was failing . 
The sum of eight thousand dollars was still lacking . 
With characteristic energy , Miss Anthony under took to save the situation by raising this amount within the time limit . 
Aunt Susan'' made every second count that day , and by half after three o'clock she had secured the necessary pledges . 
Without a word Miss Anthony seized the pledge and wrote her name across it as an indorsement . 
I am good for it , '' she then said , quietly , if the gentleman who signed it is not . 
'' That afternoon she returned home greatly fa tigued . 
She was passing through the first stage of what proved to be her final breakdown . 
In , when the date of the annual convention of the National American Woman Suffrage Association in Baltimore was drawing near , she became convinced that it would be her last convention . 
She visibly lost strength from day to day . 
One morning she said abruptly , Anna , let's go and call on President M. Carey Thomas , of Bryn Mawr . 
'' I wrote a note to Miss Thomas , telling her of Miss Anthony's desire to see her , and received an im mediate reply inviting us to luncheon the following day . 
We found Miss Thomas deep in the work connected with her new college buildings , over which she showed us with much pride . 
Miss Anthony , of course , gloried in the splendid results Miss Thomas had achieved , but she was , for her , strangely silent and preoccupied . 
At luncheon she said Miss Thomas , your buildings are beautiful your new library is a marvel but they are not the cause of our presence here . 
'' No , '' Miss Thomas said I know you have something on your mind . 
I am waiting for you to tell me what it is . 
'' We want your co operation , and that of Miss Garrett , '' began Miss Anthony , promptly , to make our Baltimore Convention a success . 
She also invited Miss Anthony and me to be her guests there , and added that she would try to arrange the reception by the Arundel Club . 
I have never seen her happier than she was over the receipt of that telegram . 
She knew that whatever Miss Thomas and Miss Garrett undertook would be accomplished , and she rightly regarded the success of the conven tion as already assured . 
Her expectations were more than realized . 
The college evening was un doubtedly the most brilliant occasion of its kind ever arranged for a convention . 
From beginning to end the convention was prob ably the most notable yet held in our history . 
Julia Ward Howe and her daughter , Florence Howe Hall , were also guests of Miss Garrett , who , more over , entertained all the speakers of College Night . 
'' Miss Anthony , now eighty six , arrived in Baltimore quite ill , and Mrs. Howe , who was ninety , was taken ill soon after she reached there . 
Clara Barton was also an honored figure at the convention , and Miss Anthony's joy in the presence of all these old and dear friends was over flowing . 
After that night she was unable to appear , and was indeed so ill that she was confined to her bed in Miss Gar rett's most hospitable home . 
Nothing could have been more thoughtful or more beautiful than the care Miss Garrett and Miss Thomas bestowed on her . 
They engaged for her one of the best physicians in Baltimore , who , in turn , consulted with the leading specialists of Johns Hopkins , and they also secured a trained nurse . 
This final attention required special tact , for Miss Anthony's fear of giving trouble'' was so great that she was not willing to have a nurse . 
The nurse , therefore , wore a house maid's uniform , and Aunt Susan'' remained wholly unconscious that she was being cared for by one of the best nurses in the famous hospital . 
Between sessions of the convention I used to sit by Aunt Susan's'' bed and tell her what was going on . 
She was triumphant over the immense success of the convention , but it was clear that she was still worrying over the details of future work . 
She and Miss Garrett asked a number of practical questions , and at the end of our talk they looked at each other . 
I don't think , '' said Miss Thomas , that we have quite done our duty in this matter . 
The mere mention of so large a fund startled us all . 
We feared that it could not possibly be raised . 
But Miss Anthony plainly believed that now the last great wish of her life had been granted . 
On the th of February we left Baltimore for Washington , where Miss Anthony was to cele brate her eighty sixth birthday . 
For many years the National American Woman Suffrage Associa tion had celebrated our birthdays together , as hers came on the th of the month and mine on the th . 
This time Aunt Susan'' should not have attempted the Washington celebration , for she was still ill and exhausted by the strain of the con vention . 
When I spoke to her she answered with out turning her head . 
That , '' she said , softly , is the most beautiful monument in the world . 
'' I stood by her side , and together we looked at it in silence I realizing with a sick heart that Aunt Susan'' knew she was seeing it for the last time . 
The birthday celebration that followed our exec utive meeting was an impressive one . 
It was held in the Church of Our Father , whose pastor , the Rev . 
John Van Schaick , had always been exceedingly kind to Miss Anthony . 
President Roosevelt and other statesmen sent most friendly letters , and William H. Taft had promised to be present . 
He did not come , nor did he , then or later , send any excuse for not coming an omission that greatly disappointed Miss Anthony , who had always admired him . 
We became more and more conscious that Miss Anthony was suffering , and we hastened the exer cises all we could . 
When I read President Roose velt's long tribute to her , Miss Anthony rose to comment on it . 
One word from President Roosevelt in his mes sage to Congress , '' she said , a little wearily , would be worth a thousand eulogies of Susan B. Anthony . 
She ended with three words very fitting words from her lips , expressing as they did the spirit of her life work FAILURE IS IMPOSSIBLE . 
'' The next morning she was taken to her home in Rochester , and one month from that day we con ducted her funeral services . 
But from the first it was plain that , as she herself had foretold , Aunt Susan's'' soul was merely waiting for the hour of its passing . 
One of her characteristic traits was a dislike to being seen , even by those nearest to her , when she was not well . 
But all the time my heart was in her sick room , and at last the day came when I could no longer remain away from her . 
'' I shall not even wait to telegraph , '' I declared . 
I am sure she has sent for me I shall take the first train . 
'' The journey brought me very close to death . 
As we were approaching Wilkes Barre our train ran into a wagon loaded with powder and dynamite , which had been left on the track . 
I was on my way to the dining car when the collision occurred . 
When the train stopped we learned how narrow had been our escape from an especially unpleasant form of death . 
The dynamite in the wagon was frozen , and therefore had not exploded it was the ex plosion of the powder that had caused the flashes and the din . 
'' The accident caused a long delay , and it was ten o'clock at night when I reached Rochester and Miss Anthony's home . 
As I entered the house Miss Mary Anthony rose in surprise to greet me . 
How did you get here so soon ? '' she cried . 
And then We sent for you this afternoon . 
Susan has been asking for you all day . 
When she had given her instructions on this point she still seemed depressed . 
I wish I could live on , '' she said , wistfully . 
My spirit is eager and my heart is as young as it ever was , but my poor old body is worn out . 
'' But how can I promise that ? '' I asked . 
I can keep it only as long as others wish me to keep it . 
'' Promise to make them wish you to keep it , '' she urged . 
Just as I wish you to keep it . 
'' I would have promised her anything then . 
'' This did not satisfy her . 
No , no , '' she objected . 
You cannot be the judge of that . 
Promise me you will remain until the friends you most trust tell you it is time to with draw , or make you understand that it is time . 
'' I made the promise . 
She seemed content , and again began to talk of the future . 
You will not have an easy path , '' she warned me . 
In some ways it will be harder for you than it has ever been for me . 
I was so much older than the rest of you , and I had been president so long , that you girls have all been willing to listen to me . 
It will be different with you . 
There will be inevi table jealousies and misunderstandings there will be all sorts of criticism and misrepresentation . 
Take your stand and hold it then let come what will , and receive blows like a good soldier . 
'' I was too much overcome to answer her and after a moment of silence she , in her turn , made me a promise . 
I do not know anything about what comes to us after this life ends , '' she said . 
Who knows ? Perhaps I may be able to do more for the Cause after I am gone than while I am here . 
'' Nine years have passed since then , and in each day of them all it seems to me , in looking back , I have had some occasion to recall her words . 
When they were uttered I did not fully comprehend all they meant , or the clearness of the vision that had suggested them . 
It seemed to me that no position I could hold would be of sufficient importance to attract jealousy or personal attacks . 
During the last forty eight hours of her life she was unwilling that I should leave her side . 
So day and night I knelt by her bed , holding her hand and watching the flame of her wonderful spirit grow dim . 
At times , even then , it blazed up with startling sud denness . 
Many of them had preceded her into the next world others were still splendidly active in the work she was laying down . 
In these final hours it seemed that not a single sacrifice or service , however small , had been forgotten by the dying leader . 
I know how hard they have worked I know the sacrifices they have made . 
But it has all been worth while ! '' Just before she lapsed into unconsciousness she seemed restless and anxious to say something , search ing my face with her dimming eyes . 
Do you want me to repeat my promise ? '' I asked , for she had already made me do so several times . 
She made a sign of assent , and I gave her the assurance she desired . 
As I did so she raised my hand to her lips and kissed it her last conscious action . 
For more than thirty hours after that I knelt by her side , but though she clung to my hand until her own hand grew cold , she did not speak again . 
She had told me over and over how much our long friendship and association had meant to her , and the comfort I had given her . 
But whatever I may have been to her , it was as nothing compared with what she was to me . 
Your part will be to see that the four volumes are duly placed in the libraries of the country , where every student of history may have access to them . 
With unbounded love and faith , SUSAN B. ANTHONY . 
That final line is still my greatest comfort . 
'' Having had that , I have had enough . 
The church services were conducted by the pastor , the Rev . 
C. C. Albertson , a lifelong friend of Miss Anthony's , assisted by the Rev . 
James G. Potter , the Mayor of the city , and Dr . 
William Lloyd Garrison spoke of Miss Anthony's work with his father and other anti slavery leaders , and Mrs. Jean Brooks Greenleaf spoke in behalf of the New York State Suffrage Association . 
Then , as Aunt Susan'' had requested , I made the closing address . 
She had asked me to do this and to pronounce the benediction , as well as to say the final words at her grave . 
All day students had mounted guard , relieving one another at intervals . 
On every side there were flowers and floral emblems sent by various organizations , and just over Aunt Susan's'' head floated the silk flag given to her by the women of Colorado . 
It contained four gold stars , representing the four enfranchised states , while the other stars were in silver . 
Here the four stars representing the enfranchised states were made of diamonds , the others of silver enamel . 
Just before the lid was fastened on the coffin this flag was removed and handed to Mary Anthony , who presented it to me . 
From that day I have worn it on every occasion of importance to our Cause , and each time a state is won for woman suffrage I have added a new diamond star . 
At the time I write this in there are twelve . 
As the funeral procession went through the streets of Rochester it was seen that all the city flags were at half mast , by order of the City Council . 
Many houses were draped in black , and the grief of the citizens manifested itself on every side . 
Now thou hast gone to thy well earned rest . 
We beseech the Infinite Spirit Who has upheld thee to make us worthy to follow in thy steps and to carry on thy work . 
At a convention held in Washington these societies were merged as The National American Woman Suffrage Association the name our association still bears and Mrs. Stanton was elected president . 
She was then nearly eighty and past active work , but she made a wonderful presiding officer at our subsequent meetings , and she was as picturesque as she was efficient . 
Usually Miss Anthony went to Mrs. Stanton's house and took charge of it while she stimulated the venerable president to the writing of her annual address . 
Then , at the subsequent convention , she would listen to the report with as much delight and pleasure as if each word of it had been new to her . 
Most of the conversation in Mrs. Osborne's home was contributed by Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony , while the rest of us sat , as it were , at their feet . 
Many human and feminine touches brightened the lofty discussions that were constantly going on , and the varied characteristics of our leaders cropped up in amusing fashion . 
Mrs. Stanton , for example , was rarely accurate in giving figures or dates , while Miss Anthony was always very exact in such matters . 
She frequently corrected Mrs. Stanton's statements , and Mrs. Stanton usually took the interruption in the best possible spirit , promptly admitting that Aunt Susan'' knew best . 
On one occasion I re call , however , she held fast to her opinion that she was right as to the month in which a certain inci dent had occurred . 
No , Susan , '' she insisted , you're wrong for once . 
I remember perfectly when that happened , for it was at the time I was beginning to wean Harriet . 
'' And she added , scornfully , What event have you got to reckon from ? '' Miss Anthony meekly subsided . 
Mrs. Stanton had wonderful blue eyes , which held to the end of her life an expression of eternal youth . 
Let me give in a paragraph , before I swing off into the bypaths that always allure me , the consecutive suffrage events of the past quarter of a century . 
, Mrs. Laura Johns of Kansas , Mrs. Julia Nelson , Henry B. Blackwell , Dr . 
Helen V. Putnam of Dakota , Mrs. Emma Smith DeVoe , Rev . 
Olympia Browne of Wisconsin , and Dr . 
Mary Seymour Howell of New York . 
In , , and special efforts were devoted to Idaho , Utah , Cali fornia , and Washington , and from then on our campaigns were waged steadily in the Western states . 
The Colorado victory gave us two full suffrage states , for in the Territory of Wyoming had en franchised women under very interesting conditions , not now generally remembered . 
The achievement was due to the influence of one woman , Esther Morris , a pioneer who was as good a neighbor as she was a suffragist . 
She had done the same thing for many other women , but this woman's husband was especially grateful . 
She immediately took him at his word by asking him to introduce a bill enfranchising women , and he promptly did so . 
The Legislature was Democratic , and it pounced upon the measure as a huge joke . 
To their combined horror and amazement , the young Governor did nothing of the kind . 
He had come , as it happened , from Salem , Ohio , one of the first towns in the United States in which a suffrage convention was held . 
There , as a boy , he had heard Susan B. Anthony make a speech , and he had carried into the years the impression it made upon him . 
He signed that bill and , as the Legislature could not get a two thirds vote to kill it , the disgusted members had to make the best of the matter . 
The following year a Democrat introduced a bill to repeal the measure , but already public sentiment had changed and he was laughed down . 
After that no further effort was ever made to take the ballot away from the women of Wyoming . 
We can trust the men of Wyoming to enfranchise us after our territory be comes a state . 
'' There is great inspiration in those two messages and a great lesson , as well . 
Miss Anthony was , as always , our leader and greatest inspiration . 
Mrs. John Brooks Greenleaf was state president , and Miss Mary Anthony was the most active worker in the Roches ter headquarters . 
Among these were Mrs. Josephine Shaw Lowell , Mrs. Joseph H. Choate , Dr . 
Mary Putnam Jacobi , Mrs. J. Warren Goddard , and Mrs. Robert Abbe . 
Miss Anthony , then in her seventy fifth year , spoke in every county of the state sixty in all . 
I spoke in forty , and Mrs. Catt , as always , made a superb record . 
Miss Har riet May Mills , a graduate of Cornell , and Miss Mary G. Hay , did admirable organization work in the dif ferent counties . 
When Susan B. An thony died in , four American states had granted suffrage to woman . 
First International Council of Women , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
International Council , Chicago , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Atlanta , Ga . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Des Moines , Iowa , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Grand Rapids , Mich . 
International Council , London , England , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Minneapolis , Minn . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
National Suffrage Convention , New Orleans , La . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
International Council of Women , Berlin , Germany , . 
Formation of Intern'l Suffrage Alliance , Berlin , Germany , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Portland , Oregon , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Baltimore , Md . 
International Suffrage Alliance , Copenhagen , Denmark , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Chicago , III . 
International Suffrage Alliance , Amsterdam , Holland , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Buffalo , N. Y. , . 
New York Headquarters established , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Seattle , Wash . 
International Suffrage Alliance , London , England , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. , . 
International Council , Genoa , Italy , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Louisville , Ky . 
International Suffrage Alliance , Stockholm , Sweden , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Philadelphia , Pa . 
International Council , The Hague , Holland , National Suffrage Convention , Washington , D. C. . 
International Suffrage Alliance , Budapest , Hungary , . 
National Suffrage Convention , Nashville , Tenn . 
International Council , Rome , Italy , . 
I have set forth the record baldly and without com ment , because the bare facts are far more eloquent than words . 
It was a great occasion for them , an Indian powwow , for by the law all Indians who had lands in severalty were to be permitted to vote the fol lowing year . 
They were present , therefore , to study the ways of the white man , and an edifying exhibition of these was promptly offered them . 
'' We remained , perforce , in our rear seats , finding such interest as we could in the back view of hundreds of heads . 
All we could see of them were the brilliant feathers of their war bonnets , but we got the full effect of their reception in the music and the cheers . 
The following year these Indians would have votes . 
Courtesy , therefore , must be shown them . 
But the women did not matter , the politi cians reasoned , for even if they were enfranchised they would never support the element represented at that convention . 
The Kansas campaign , which Miss Anthony , Mrs. Catt , Mrs. Johns , and I conducted in , held a special interest , due to the Populist movement . 
There were so many problems before the people prohibition , free silver , and the Populist propaganda that we found ourselves involved in the bitterest campaign ever fought out in the state . 
To obtain the indorsement of the polit ical parties was much more difficult , and we were facing conditions in which partial success was worse than complete failure . 
It had long been an un written law before it became a written law in our National Association that we must not take partisan action or line up with any one political party . 
It was highly important , therefore , that either all parties should support us or that none should . 
The Populist party invited me , as a minister , to open the convention with prayer . 
This was an innova tion , and served as a wedge for the admission of women representatives of the Suffrage Association to address the convention . 
At the Democratic convention we made the same appeal , and were refused . 
There was a Woman's Republican Club in Kansas , which held its convention in Topeka at the same time the Republicans were holding theirs . 
The Republican women's convention finally adjourned with nothing accomplished except the passing of a resolution mildly requesting the Re publican party to indorse woman suffrage . 
The result was , of course , that it was not indorsed by the Republican convention , and that it was defeated at the following election . 
On one occasion an episode occurred which Aunt Susan'' never afterward wearied of describing . 
There was a wreck somewhere on the road on which I was to travel to meet a lecture engagement , and the trains going my way were not running . 
Look ing up the track , however , I saw a train coming from the opposite direction . 
I at once grasped my hand luggage and started for it . 
Wait ! Wait ! '' cried Miss Anthony . 
That train's going the wrong way ! '' At least it's going SOMEWHERE ! '' I replied , tersely , as the train stopped , and I climbed the steps . 
It was a fine illustration of my pet theory that if one intends to get somewhere it is better to start , even in the wrong direction , than to stand still . 
was chairman of the Judiciary , and after we had said what we wished to say , he remarked Your arguments are logical . 
The trouble is that women don't want suffrage . 
My wife doesn't want it . 
I don't know a single woman who does want it . 
'' As it happened for this unfortunate gentleman , his wife was present at the hearing and sitting beside Miss Anthony . 
'' Tell him again NOW , '' urged Miss Anthony . 
Here's your chance to impress it on his memory . 
'' Here ! '' gasped the wife . 
Oh , I wouldn't dare . 
'' Then may I tell him ? '' Why yes ! He can think what he pleases , but he has no right to publicly misrepresent me . 
'' The assent , hesitatingly begun , finished on a sud den note of firmness . 
She is here beside me , and has just made this explana tion . 
'' Mr. H stammered and hesitated , and finally decided to laugh . 
Among other duties that fell to my lot at this period were numerous suffrage debates with promi nent opponents of the Cause . 
I have already re ferred to the debate in Kansas with Senator Ingalls . 
Equaling this in importance was a bout with Dr . 
Buckley , the distinguished Methodist debater , which had been arranged for us at Chautauqua by Bishop Vincent of the Methodist Church . 
The bishop was not a believer in suffrage , nor was he one of my admirers . 
'' There was considerable interest , there fore , in the Buckley Shaw debate he had arranged we all knew he expected Dr . 
Buckley to wipe out that old score , and I was determined to make it as difficult as possible for the distinguished gentleman to do so . 
We held the debate on two succeeding days , I speaking one afternoon and Dr . 
Buckley replying the following day . 
On the evening before I spoke , however , Dr . 
Buckley made an indiscreet remark , which , blown about Chautauqua on the light breeze of gossip , was generally regarded as both unchivalrous and unfair . 
As the hall in which we were to speak was enor mous , he declared that one of two things would cer tainly happen . 
Either I would scream in order to be heard by my great audience , or I would be un able to make myself heard at all . 
If I screamed it would be a powerful argument against women as public speakers if I could not be heard , it would be an even better argument . 
In either case , he sum med up , I was doomed to failure . 
Buckley rose to reply the next day these friends were again awaiting him with an equal ly jocund display of the suffrage color , and this did not add to his serenity . 
Buckley quoted a point I had made . 
The doctor leaned forward and shook his fist at him . 
Think she's right , do you ? '' he asked . 
Yes , '' admitted the venerable citizen , briskly , though a little startled by the manner of the ques tion . 
Old man , '' shouted Dr . 
Buckley , I'll make you take that back if you've got a grain of sense in your head ! '' The insult cost him his audience . 
'' He lost the debate , and the supply of yellow ribbon left in the surrounding counties was purchased that night to be used in the suffrage celebration that followed . 
My friends still refer to the occasion as the day we wiped up the earth with Dr . 
Buckley'' but I do not deserve the im plied tribute , for Dr . 
Buckley would have lost his case without a word from me . 
What really gave me some satisfaction , however , was the respective degree of freshness with which he and I emerged from our combat . 
After my speech Miss Anthony and I were given a reception , and stood for hours shaking hands with hundreds of men and women . 
Later in the evening we had a dinner and another reception , which , lasting , as they did , until midnight , kept us from our repose . 
This young man , who was rather a pompous person , saw fit to take me to task at a table where a number of us were dining together . 
Miss Shaw , '' he said , abruptly , I have been asked very often why you wear your hair short , and I have not been able to explain . 
Of course'' this kindly '' I know there is some good reason . 
I ventured to advance the theory that you have been ill and that your hair has fallen out . 
Is that it ? '' No , '' I told him . 
There is a reason , as you suggest . 
But it is not that one . 
'' Then why '' he insisted . 
I am rather sensitive about it , '' I explained . 
I don't know that I care to discuss the subject . 
'' The young minister looked pained . 
But among friends '' he protested . 
True , '' I conceded . 
Well , then , among friends , I will admit frankly that it is a birthmark . 
I was born with short hair . 
'' That was the last time my short hair was criticized in my presence , but the young minister was right in his disapproval and I was wrong , as I subsequently realized . 
'' Aunt Susan'' kept her name in the background , that she might not array against these projects the opposi tion of those prejudiced against woman suffrage . 
We both spoke at the meetings , however , as I have already explained , and one of our most chastening experiences occurred on Actress Night . 
The hall was soon filled , and to keep out the increasing throng the doors were locked and the waiting crowd was directed to a second hall for an overflow meeting . 
As it happened , Miss Anthony and I were among the earliest arrivals at the main hall . 
I admit that we responded to the appeal with great reluctance . 
We were SO com fortable where we were and we were also deeply interested in the first intimate glimpse we were having of these stars in the dramatic sky . 
When I walked upon the stage I found myself facing an actually hostile audience . 
They had come to look at and listen to the actresses who had been promised them , and they thought they were being deprived of that privilege by an interloper . 
Never before had I gazed out on a mass of such unresponsive faces or looked into so many angry eyes . 
They were exchanging views on their wrongs , and the gen eral buzz of conversation continued when I appeared . 
For some moments I stood looking at them , my hands behind my back . 
If I had tried to speak they would undoubtedly have gone on talking my si lence attracted their attention and they began to wonder what I intended to do . 
When they had stopped whispering and moving about , I spoke to them with the frankness of an overburdened heart . 
I think , '' I said , slowly and distinctly , that you are the most disagreeable audience I ever faced in my life . 
'' They gasped and stared , almost open mouthed in their surprise . 
Never , '' I went on , have I seen a gathering of people turn such ugly looks upon a speaker who has sacrificed her own enjoyment to come and talk to them . 
Do you think I want to talk to you ? '' I de manded , warming to my subject . 
We would all much prefer to be in the other hall , listening to the speakers from our com fortable seats on the stage . 
To entertain you we gave up our places and came here simply because the committee begged us to do so . 
I have only one thing more to say . 
If you care to listen to me courteously I am willing to waste time on you but don't imagine that I will stand here and wait while you criticize the management . 
'' By this time I felt as if I had a child across my knee to whom I was administering maternal chastise ment , and the uneasiness of my audience underlined the impression . 
They listened rather sulkily at first then a few of the best natured among them laughed , and the laugh grew and developed into applause . 
The experience had done them good , and they were a chastened band when Clara Morris appeared , and I gladly yielded the floor to her . 
We were all charmed as we listened , but none of us dreamed what that address would mean to Modjeska . 
It resulted in her banish ment from Poland , her native land , which she was never again permitted to enter . 
But though she paid so heavy a price for the revelation , I do not think she ever really regretted having given to America the facts in that speech . 
During this same period I embarked upon a high adventure . 
I had always longed for a home , and my heart had always been loyal to Cape Cod . 
Now I decided to have a home at Wianno , across the Cape from my old parish at East Dennis . 
Deep seated as my home making aspiration had been , it was realized largely as the result of chance . 
A special hobby of mine has always been auction sales . 
The crown jewel of the collection was a bedroom set I had picked up in Philadelphia . 
'' I sang the song . 
I offered twenty dollars , thirty dollars , forty dollars , and other excited voices drowned mine with higher bids . 
Like many of the previous treasures I had acquired , this was a white elephant but , unlike some of them , it was worth more than I had paid for it . 
I was offered sixty dollars for one piece alone , but I coldly refused to sell it , though the tribute to my judgment warmed my heart . 
Thus put , the temptation was irresistible . 
Besides Mrs. Dietrick , many other delightful friends lived at Wianno the Garrisons , the Chases of Rhode Island , the Wymans , the Wel lingtons a most charming community . 
I gave Mrs. Dietrick full authority to use her judgment in every detail connected with the undertaking , and the cottage was built . 
Having put her hand to this plow of friendship , Mrs. Dietrick did the work with characteristic thoroughness . 
I did not even visit Wianno to look at my land . 
She selected it , bought it , engaged a woman architect Lois Howe of Boston and followed the latter's work from be ginning to end . 
The cottage was a great success , and for many years I spent my vacations there , filling the place with young people . 
They were all with me every sum mer in the new home , together with Lucy Anthony , her sister and brother , Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery , and other friends . 
We had special fishing costumes made , and wore them much of the time . 
My nieces wore knickerbockers , and I found vast content ment in short , heavy skirts over bloomers . 
I chopped all the wood , kept the fires going , and looked after the grounds . 
She wrote a sensational full page article for a Sun day newspaper , illustrated with pictures showing us all in knickerbockers . 
In this striking work of art I carried a fish net and pole and wore a handkerchief tied over my head . 
The article , which was headed THE ADAMLESS EDEN , was almost libelous , and I admit that for a long time it dimmed our enjoy ment of our beloved retreat . 
Then , gradually , my old friends died , Mrs. Dietrick among the first others moved away and the character of the entire region changed . 
It became fashionable , privacy was no longer to be found there , and we ceased to visit it . 
For five years I have not even seen the cottage . 
From every country I have visited I have brought back a tiny tree for this little forest , and now it is as full of memories as of beauty . 
To the surprise of my neighbors , I built my house with its back toward the public road , facing the valley and the stream . 
But you will never see anybody go by , '' they protested . 
I enjoy my views from the broad veranda that overlooks the valley , the stream , and the country for miles around . 
Looking back on many campaign experi ences , I am forced to admit that it is not always the privations we endure which make us think most tenderly of home . 
Often we are more overcome by the attentions of well meaning friends . 
As an example of this I recall an incident of one Oregon campaign . 
An almost equally trying occasion had San Fran cisco for its setting . 
The city had arranged a Fourth of July celebration , at which Miss Anthony and I were to speak . 
Here we rode in a carriage deco rated with flowers yellow roses while just in front of us was the mayor in a carriage gorgeously fes tooned with purple blossoms . 
She was enchanted over the whole experience , for to her it meant , as always , not a personal tribute , but a triumph of the Cause . 
It is almost unnecessary to add that this remarkable decoration was furnished by a committee of men , and was also worn by all the men speakers of the day . 
On our way to California in Miss Anthony and I spent a day at Cheyenne , Wyoming , as the guests of Senator and Mrs. Carey , who gave a dinner for us . 
I attribute the better character of our public officials almost entirely to the votes of the women . 
'' Those are inspiring facts , '' I conceded , but let us be just . 
There are three men in Wyoming to every woman , and no candidate for office could be elected unless the men voted for him , too . 
Why , then , don't they deserve as much credit for his election as the women ? '' Because , '' explained Senator Carey , promptly , women are politically an uncertain factor . 
We can go among men and learn beforehand how they are going to vote , but we can't do that with women they keep us guessing . 
'' Following the dinner there was a large public meeting , at which Miss Anthony and I were to speak . 
Mrs. Jenkins , who was president of the Suffrage Association of the state , presided and introduced us to the assemblage . 
Then she added I have intro duced you ladies to your audience . 
Now I would like to introduce your audience to you . 
Headquarters were se cured in San Francisco , and Miss Hay was put in charge , associated with a large group of California women . 
It was the second time in the history of campaigns the first being in New York that all the money to carry on the work was raised by the people of the state . 
The last days of the campaign were extremely interesting , and one of their important events was that the Hon . 
Thomas Reed , then Speaker of the House of Representatives , for the first time came out publicly for suffrage . 
Mr. Reed had often ex pressed himself privately as in favor of the Cause but he had never made a public statement for us . 
But he ended with these words There is an amendment of the constitution pending , granting suffrage to women . 
The women of California ought to have suffrage . 
The men of California ought to give it to them and the next speaker , Dr . 
Shaw , will tell you why . 
'' The word was spoken . 
And though it was not a very strong word , it came from a strong man , and therefore helped us . 
Election day , as usual , brought its surprises and revelations . 
Mrs. Cooper asked her Chinese cook how the Chinese were voting i . 
However , we made a fairly good show ing . 
With more than , votes cast , we were defeated by only , majority . 
This gave us four suffrage states Wyoming , Colorado , Utah , and Idaho and we prepared for future struggles with very hopeful hearts . 
It was during this California campaign , by the way , that I unwittingly caused much embarrass ment to a worthy young man . 
On the following night Prof . 
Howard Griggs , of Stanford University , made a speech on the modern woman a speech so admirably thought out and delivered that we were all delighted with it . 
When he had finished the audience again called on me , and I rose and proceeded to make what my friends frank ly called the worst break'' of my experience . 
We had something very near it in a speaker who could reveal such ability , such chivalry , and such breadth of view as Professor Griggs had just shown that he possessed . 
Across the front page of every one of them ran startling head lines to this effect DR . 
But neither of us has yet heard the last of the Ideal Man episode . 
In one town , after a heavy rain , I remember seeing a number of little boys scraping the dirt from the gutters , washing it , and finding tiny nuggets of gold . 
This sounds like the kind of thing Ameri cans tell to trustful visitors from foreign lands , but it is quite true . 
There were no nuggets in the subsequent collection , but there was a note which read If Dr . 
Shaw will accept a gold nugget , I will see that she does not leave town without one . 
'' I read this aloud , and added , I have never refused a gold nugget in my life . 
I was not accustomed to this sort of generosity , but it was characteristic of the spirit of the state . 
No where else , during our campaign experiences , were we so royally treated in every way . 
As a single example among many , I may mention that Mrs. Leland Stanford once happened to be on a train with us and to meet Miss Anthony . 
As a result of this chance encounter she gave our whole party passes on all the lines of the Southern Pacific Rail road , for use during the entire campaign . 
Similar generosity was shown us on every side , and the ques tion of finance did not burden us from the beginning to the end of the California work . 
On the morning of the sermon I approached the Mormon Tabernacle with much more trepidation than I usually experienced before entering a pulpit . 
Fortunately , my anxiety was not long drawn out . 
I arrived only a few moments before the hour fixed for the sermon , and found the congregation already assembled and the Tabernacle filled with the beautiful music of the great organ . 
On the platform , to which I was escorted by several leading dignitaries of the church , was the characteristic Mormon arrangement of seats . 
The first row was occupied by the deacons , and in the center of these was the pulpit from which the deacons preach . 
Above these seats was a second row , oc cupied by ordained elders , and there they too had their own pulpit . 
As I am an ordained elder in my church , I oc cupied the pulpit in the middle row of seats , with the deacons below me and the bishops just behind . 
'' I thanked him , but inwardly I was aghast . 
What had I said to give him such an impression ? I racked my brain , but could recall nothing that justified it . 
But nothing of the kind was said . 
He asked me to tell you how glad he was that under such unusual conditions you held so firmly to the teachings of Christ . 
'' The next day I was still more reassured . 
A re ception was given us at the home of one of Brigham Young's daughters , and the receiving line was graced by the presiding elder of the Methodist Episcopal Church . 
During the visit I had an interesting conversation with a number of the younger Mormon women . 
They filled the room , sitting around in school girl fashion on the floor and even on the bed . 
It was an unusual op portunity to learn some things I wished to know , and I could not resist it . 
There are some questions I would like to ask you , '' I began , and one or two of them may seem impertinent . 
But they won't be asked in that spirit and please don't answer any that embarrass you . 
'' They exchanged glances , and then told me to ask as many questions as I wished . 
First of all , '' I said , I would like to know the real attitude toward polygamy of the present gen eration of Mormon women . 
Do you all believe in it ? '' They assured me that they did . 
How many of you , '' I then asked , are polyga mous wives ? '' There was not one in the group . 
At last one of them said , slowly In my case , I alone was to blame . 
For years I could not force myself to consent to my husband's taking another wife , though I tried hard . 
By the time I had overcome my objection the law was passed prohibiting polygamy . 
'' A second member of the group hastened to tell her story . 
She had had a similar spiritual struggle , and just as she reached the point where she was willing to have her husband take another wife , he died . 
And now the room was filled with eager voices . 
They were all so passion ately in earnest that they stared at me in puzzled wonder when I broke into the sudden laughter I could not restrain . 
What fortunate women you all were ! '' I ex claimed , teasingly . 
Not one of you arrived at the point of consenting to the presence of a second wife in your home until it was impossible for your hus band to take her . 
'' They flushed a little at that , and then laughed with me but they did not defend themselves against the tacit charge , and I turned the conversation into less personal channels . 
was a bitter opponent of woman suffrage . 
The Mormon women begged me to challenge him to a debate on the subject , which I did , but Mr. Roberts declined the challenge . 
The ground of his refusal , which he made public through the newspapers , was chastening to my spirit . 
He explained that he would not debate with me because he was not willing to lower himself to the intellectual plane of a woman . 
Miss Anthony was devoted to us both , and I think the choice was a hard one for her to make . 
On the other hand , Mrs. Catt had been chairman of the organization committee , and through her splendid executive ability had built up our organization in many states . 
From Miss Anthony down , we all recognized her steadily growing powers she had , moreover , abundant means , which I had not . 
In my mind there was no question of her superior qualification for the presidency . 
I will admit here for the first time that in urging Mrs. Catt's fitness for the office I made the greatest sacrifice of my life . 
My highest ambition had been to succeed Miss Anthony , for no one who knew her as I did could underestimate the honor of being chosen by her to carry on her work . 
Her faith was fully justified . 
At last , however , Miss Anthony actually commanded me to take the place , and there was nothing to do but obey her . 
She was then eighty four , and , as it proved , within two years of her death . 
'' In the work I now took up I found myself much alone . 
Mrs. Catt was really ill , and the strength of Aunt Susan'' must be saved in every way . 
Neither could give me much help , though each did all she should have done , and more . 
Mrs. Catt , whose husband had recently died , was in a deeply despondent frame of mind , and seemed to feel that the future was hopelessly dark . 
My own panacea for grief is work , and it seemed to me that both physically and mentally she would be helped by a wise combination of travel and effort . 
Now I realized that for me it could never be more than a dream . 
In my first visit to her after her husband's death I suggested this plan , but she replied that it was impossible for her to consider it . 
They approved the suggestion so heartily that I followed it up with a speech setting forth the whole plan and Mrs. Catt's peculiar fitness for the work . 
Several months later Mrs. Catt and Dr . 
It was the first time an important body of men had recognized us in this manner , and we gladly responded . 
Thus we began in Oregon the good work we continued in , and of which we reaped the harvest in . 
To Saccawagea is due the opening up of the entire western country . 
There was no one to guide Lewis and Clark except this Indian , who alone knew the way and she led the whole party , carrying her papoose on her back . 
This recognition by women is the only recognition she ever received . 
Tradition says that she was bitterly disap pointed , as well she might have been , and her Indian brain must have been sadly puzzled . 
The Oregon campaign of was the carrying out of one of Miss Anthony's dearest wishes , and we who loved her set about this work soon after her death . 
In the autumn preceding her passing , head quarters had been established in Oregon , and Miss Laura Gregg had been placed in charge , with Miss Gale Laughlin as her associate . 
All this was happening during Miss Anthony's last illness , and it added greatly to our anxieties . 
I had at tempted too much , however , and I proved it by fainting as I got off the train , to the horror of the friendly delegation waiting to receive us . 
The Portland women took very tender care of me , and in a few days I was ready for work , but we found conditions even worse than we had expected . 
Miss Gregg had collapsed utterly and was unable to give us any information as to what had been done or planned , and we had to make a new foundation . 
Miss Mary and Miss Lucy Anthony confined them selves to office work in the Portland headquarters , where they gave us very valuable assistance . 
On election day it seemed as if the heavens had opened to pour floods upon us . 
Never before or since have I seen such incessant , relentless rain . 
Nevertheless , the women of Portland turned out in force , led by Mrs. Sarah Evans , president of the Oregon State Federation of Women's Clubs , while all day long Dr . 
Pohl took me in her automobile from one polling place to another . 
At each we found representative women patiently enduring the drench ing rain while they tried to persuade men to vote for us . 
Two women had been admitted to every polling place but the way in which we had been able to secure their pres ence throws a high light on the difficulties we were meeting . 
The result of the election taught us several things . 
We had been told that all the prohibitionists and socialists would vote for us . 
On the other hand , when the ticket was scratched'' the vote was usually in our favor , whatever political party the man be longed to . 
Another interesting discovery was that the early morning vote was favorable to our Cause the vote cast by working men on their way to their employ ment . 
During the middle of the forenoon and after noon , when the idle class was at the polls , the vote ran against us . 
The late vote , cast as men were returning from their work , was again largely in our favor and we drew some conclusions from this . 
Also , for the first time in the history of any cam paign , the anti suffragists had organized against us . 
The antis'' also suffered in this campaign from the pernicious activity'' of their spokesman a lawyer with an unenviable reputation . 
After the campaign was over this man declared that it had cost the opponents of our measure , . 
In Mrs. Belmont attended as a delegate the meeting of the International Suffrage Alliance in London , and her interest in the Cause deepened . 
This proposition was most gratefully accepted , and we promptly secured headquarters in one of the most desirable buildings on Fifth Avenue . 
The wisdom of the change was demonstrated at once by the extraordinary growth of the work . 
During our last year in Warren , for example , the proceeds from the sale of our literature were between , and , . 
During the first year in New York our returns from such sales were between , and , , and an equal growth was evident in our other departments . 
The special event of was the successful com pletion of the fund President M. Carey Thomas of Bryn Mawr and Miss Mary Garrett had promised in to raise for the Cause . 
The entire fund was to be raised by May , , she added , or the plan would be dropped . 
Long distance wants you , '' the operator said , and the next minute a voice I recognized as that of Miss Thomas was offering congratulations . 
The last dollar of the , , '' she added , was pledged at four o'clock this afternoon . 
'' I was so overcome by the news that I dropped the receiver and shook in a violent nervous attack , and this trembling continued throughout my lecture . 
As subsequently arranged , the salaries did not come to us through the National Association treasury they were paid directly by Miss Thomas and Miss Garrett as custodians of the fund . 
So it is quite correct to say that no salaries have ever been paid by the National Association to its officers . 
Three years later , in , another glorious sur prise came to me in a very innocent looking letter . 
It was one of many in a heavy mail , and I opened it absent mindedly , for the day had been problem filled . 
The writer stated very simply that she wished to put a large amount into my hands to invest , to draw on , and to use for the Cause as I saw fit . 
My friend replied that either of these ladies would be perfectly satisfactory to her . 
She knew them both , she said , and I was to arrange the matter as I chose , as it rested wholly in my hands . 
It enabled us for the first time to establish headquarters , se cure an office force , and engage campaign speakers . 
I also spent some of it in the states we lost then but will win later Ohio , Wisconsin , and Michigan using in all more than fifteen thousand dollars . 
In September , , I received another check from the same friend , showing that she at least was satisfied with the results we had achieved . 
XIV RECENT CAMPAIGNS The interval between the winning of Idaho and Utah in and that of Washington in seemed very long to lovers of the Cause . 
But in we were cheered by our Washington victory , followed the next year by the winning of California . 
Personally , I began my work in Ohio in August , with the modest aspiration of speaking in each of the principal towns in every one of these states . 
They showed their further interest in the most satisfactory way , by carrying the amendment in their part of the state . 
At least four and five speeches a day were expected , and as usual we traveled in every sort of conveyance , from freight cars to eighty horse power French auto mobiles . 
In Eau Clair , Wisconsin , I spoke at the races immediately after the passing of a procession of cattle . 
At the end of the procession rode a wom an in an ox cart , to represent pioneer days . 
In Oregon we were joined by Miss Lucy Anthony . 
Never have we had more courteous or enthusiastic listeners than those wild and happy horsemen . 
Best of all , they not only cheered our sentiments , but they followed up their cheers with their votes . 
I spoke from an automobile , and when I had finished one of the cowboys rode close to me and asked for my New York address . 
You will hear from me later , '' he said , when he had made a note of it . 
Over these were drawn the words WOMAN SUFFRAGE WE ARE ALL FOR IT . 
The banner hangs to day in the National Head quarters . 
Mrs. Park's specialty was the distribu tion of suffrage literature , which she circulated with remarkable judgment . 
In Kansas we stole some of the prestige of Champ Clark , who was making political speeches in the same region . 
No one who knows the conditions doubts that we really won Michigan that year as well as the three other states , but strange things were done in the count . 
For example , in one precinct in Detroit forty more votes were counted against our amend ment than there were voters in the district . 
In other districts there were seven or eight more votes than voters . 
Under these conditions it is not sur prising that , after the vigorous recounting following the first wide spread reports of our success , Michi gan was declared lost to us . 
The campaign of , in which we won Montana and Nevada , deserves special mention here . 
As a beginning of the campaign I spent a day in Chicago , on the way to South Dakota , to take my part in a moving picture suffrage play . 
It was my first experience as an actress , and I found it a taxing one . 
As a modest beginning I was ordered to make a speech in thirty three seconds something of a task , as my usual time allowance for a speech is one hour . 
Every day we made speeches from the rear platform of the trains on which we were traveling sometimes only two or three , sometimes half a dozen . 
One day I rode one hundred miles in an automobile and spoke in five different towns . 
Another day I had to make a journey in a freight car . 
It was , with a few ex ceptions , the roughest traveling I had yet known , and it took me six hours to reach my destination . 
While I was gathering up hair pins and pulling my self together to leave the car at the end of the ride I asked the conductor how far we had traveled . 
Forty miles , '' said he , tersely . 
That means forty miles AHEAD , '' I murmured . 
How far up and down ? '' Oh , a hundred miles up and down , '' grinned the conductor , and the exchange of persiflage cheered us both . 
In Montana our most interesting day was that of the State Fair , which ended with a suffrage parade that I was invited to lead . 
In Butte the big strike was on , and the town was under martial law . 
The situation seemed so absurd that I burst into happy laughter , and thus deeply offended the earnest young guards who were grasping the fixed bayonets . 
This sad memory was wiped out , however , by the interest of the banquet a very delightful affair , attended by the mayor of Butte and other local dignitaries . 
In Nevada the most interesting feature of the campaign was the splendid work of the women . 
In each of the little towns there was the same spirit of ceaseless activity and determination . 
Miss Martin was a tireless and worthy leader of the fine workers in her state . 
In Missouri , under the direction of Mrs. Walter McNabb Miller , and in Nebraska , where Mrs. E. Draper Smith was managing the campaign , we had some inspiring meetings . 
There was also an amusing aftermath of this occa sion , which Secretary Bryan himself confided to me several months later when I met him in Atlantic City . 
'' A less pleasing memory of Nebraska is that I lost my voice there and my activities were sadly inter rupted . 
In Missouri one of our most significant meetings was in Bowling Green , the home of Champ Clark , Speaker of the House . 
Mrs. Clark gave a reception , made a speech , and introduced me at the meeting , as Mrs. Bryan had done in Lincoln . 
She is one of the brightest memories of my Missouri experience , for , with few exceptions , she is the most entertaining woman I have ever met . 
Subsequently we had an all day motor journey together , during which Mrs. Clark rarely stopped talking and I even more rarely stopped laughing . 
XV CONVENTION INCIDENTS From to we had a suffrage convention every year , and I attended each of them . 
In pre ceding chapters I have mentioned various convention episodes of more or less importance . 
Now , looking back over them all as I near the end of these remi niscences , I recall a few additional incidents which had a bearing on later events . 
There was , for example , the much discussed at tack on suffrage during the Atlanta convention of , by a prominent clergyman of that city whose name I mercifully withhold . 
Incidentally he declared that the suffragists were trying to break up the homes of America and degrade the morals of women , and that we were all infidels and blasphemers . 
The announcement brought out an audience which filled the Opera House and called for a squad of police officers to keep in order the street crowd that could not secure entrance . 
The assemblage had naturally expected that I would make some reply to the clergyman's attack , but I made no reference whatever to him . 
I merely re peated , with emphasis , the sermon I had delivered in Cleveland . 
At the conclusion of the service one of the trustees of my reverend critic's church came and apologized for his pastor . 
The attack made many friends for us , first because of its injustice , and next because of the good humored tolerance with which the suffragists accepted it . 
It is a remarkable fact that in many of our Southern states the suffrage movement has been led by three sisters . 
In Kentucky the three Clay sisters were for many years leaders in the work . 
he was the only person present who stood by Elizabeth Cady Stan ton when she presented her resolution in favor of votes for women . 
Mr. Douglass made a short speech and then left the building , going directly to his home . 
There , on entering his hall , he had an attack of heart failure and dropped dead as he was removing his overcoat . 
Miss Anthony and I were invited to take part in the funeral services , and she made a short address , while I offered a prayer . 
Under the gracious direction of Miss Kate Gordon and the Louisiana Woman Suffrage Association , we held an especially inspiring convention in New Orleans in . 
In no previous convention were arrangements more perfect , and certainly nowhere else did the men of a community co operate more gen erously with the women in entertaining us . 
Those present were privileged to ask any questions they pleased , and I answered them if I could . 
It had not been easy to persuade Miss Anthony of the wisdom of this course her way was to face issues squarely and out in the open . 
But she agreed that we must respect the convictions of the Southern men and women who were entertain ing us so hospitably . 
The second night it came to me again , put in the same words , and again I ignored it . 
The third night it came with this addition Evidently you do not dare to answer this question . 
There fore our conclusion is that this is your purpose . 
When I had read this I went to the front of the platform . 
Here , '' I said , is a question which has been asked me on three successive nights . 
I have not answered it because we Northern women had de cided not to enter into any discussion of the race question . 
But now I am told by the writer of this note that we dare not answer it . 
I wish to say that we dare to answer it if you dare to have it answered and I leave it to you to decide whether I shall answer it or not . 
'' I read the question aloud . 
You did not wait for woman suffrage , but disfranchised both your black and your white women , thus making them politically equal . 
But you have done more than that . 
You have put the ballot into the hands of your black men , thus making them the political superiors of your white women . 
Never before in the history of the world have men made former slaves the political masters of their former mistresses ! '' The point went home and it went deep . 
I drove it in a little further . 
The women of the South are not alone , '' I said , in their humiliation . 
All the women of America share it with them . 
There is no other nation in the world in which women hold the position of political degradation our American women hold to day . 
German women are governed by German men French women are governed by French men . 
But in these United States American women are gov erned by every race of men under the light of the sun . 
If American men are willing to leave their women in a position as degrading as this they need not be surprised when American women resolve to lift themselves out of it . 
'' For a full moment after I had finished there was absolute silence in the audience . 
We did not know what would happen . 
Then , suddenly , as the truth of the statement struck them , the men began to applaud and the danger of that situation was over . 
Another episode had its part in driving the suf frage lesson home to Southern women . 
Miss Gordon and the suffrage association known as the Era Club entered enthusiastically into the fight for good drainage . 
With each proxy it was necessary to have the signa ture of a witness , but according to the Louisiana law no woman could witness a legal document . 
This was Miss Gordon's opportunity . 
In this way Miss Gordon secured three hundred proxies , and three hundred very conservative women had an opportunity to compare their legal standing with Sam's . 
The drainage bill was carried and in terest in woman suffrage developed steadily . 
The special incident of the Buffalo convention of was the receipt of a note which was passed up to me as I sat on the platform . 
When I opened it a check dropped out a check so large that I was sure it had been sent by mistake . 
Audiences are as curious as individuals . 
The amount was at once subscribed . 
The money was used during the campaigns of the following year part of it in Washington , where an amendment was already submitted . 
In a previous chapter I have described the estab lishment of our New York headquarters as a result of the generous offer of Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont at the Seattle convention in . 
During our first year in these beautiful Fifth Avenue rooms Mrs. Pankhurst made her first visit to America , and we gave her a reception there . 
This , however , was before the adoption of the destructive methods which have since marked the activities of the band of militant suffragists of which Mrs. Pankhurst is president . 
There has never been any sympathy among American suffragists for the militant suffrage movement in England , and personally I am wholly opposed to it . 
As for militancy in America , no generation that attempted it could win . 
No victory could come to us in any state where militant methods were tried . 
They are undignified , unworthy in other words , un Ameri can . 
The Washington convention of was graced by the presence of President Taft , who , at the in vitation of Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery , made an address . 
He began his address with fulsome praise of women , which was accepted in respectful silence . 
In his audience were many women from suffrage states high minded women , wives and mothers , who had voted for Mr. Taft . 
The remarks to which they had just listened must have seemed to them a poor return . 
Some one hissed some man , some woman no one knows which except the culprit and a demonstration started which I immediately silenced . 
Then the President finished his address . 
I have often wondered what he thought of that speech as he drove back to the White House . 
Probably he regretted as earnestly as we did that he had made it . 
In , at an official board meeting at Bryn Mawr , Mrs. Stanley McCormack was appointed to fill a vacancy on the National Board . 
I can truly say of her what Susan B. Anthony said of me , She is my right bower . 
To this she gives all her time , aided by an executive secretary who takes charge of the routine work of the association . 
She has thus made it possible for me to give the greater part of my time to the field in which such inspiring opportunities still confront us campaign work in the various states . 
To Mrs. Medill McCormack also we are indebted for most admirable work and enthusiastic support . 
convention in she was made the chairman of the Congressional Com mittee , with Mrs. Antoinette Funk , Mrs. Helen Gardner of Washington , and Mrs. Booth of Chicago as her assistants . 
This measure , known as the Susan B. Anthony bill , had been introduced into every Congress for forty three years by the National Woman Suffrage Association . 
In , for the first time , it was brought out of committee , debated , and voted upon in the Lower House . 
We received votes in favor of it to against it . 
The previous spring , in the same Congress , the same bill passed the Senate by votes for it to votes against it . 
We there fore considered it necessary to have a special com mittee of our own . 
The hearing began on the morning of Wednesday , the third of December , and lasted for two hours . 
It was the longest hear ing in the history of the suffrage movement , and one of the most important . 
During the session of Congress in another strenuous effort was made to secure the appoint ment of a special suffrage committee in the Lower House . 
The new officers elected were Mrs. Breckenridge of Kentucky , the great granddaughter of Henry Clay , and Mrs. Catherine Ruutz Rees of Greenwich , Connecticut . 
the National's'' affairs are in the hands of this in spiring group , again headed by the much criticized and chastened writer of these reminiscences Mrs. Stanley McCormack , first vice president . 
Mrs. Desha Breckenridge , second vice president . 
Katharine B. Davis , third vice president . 
Mrs. Henry Wade Rogers , treasurer . 
Mrs. John Clark , corresponding secretary . 
Mrs. Susan Walker Fitzgerald , recording secretary . 
, Sophonisba Breck enridge , Mrs. Clara B. Arthur , Rev . 
To all of them , and to thousands of others , I make my grateful acknowledgment of indebtedness for friend ship and for help . 
XVI COUNCIL EPISODES I have said much of the interest attending the international meetings held in Chicago , London , Berlin , and Stockholm . 
First , however , the difference between the Suf frage Alliance meetings and the International Coun cil meetings should be explained . 
The International Suffrage Alliance represents the suf frage interest primarily , whereas the International Council has only a suffrage department . 
It was unfortunate , therefore , that I chose this occasion to make a spectacular personal failure in the pulpit . 
I had been invited to preach the con vention sermon , and for the first time in my life I had an interpreter . 
The whole experience greatly dis heartened me , but no doubt it was good for my soul . 
Among us was a group of Indian women , and these , dressed in their native costumes , contributed a picturesque bit of brilliant color to the scene as they deeply salaamed . 
They arrested the eye of the Queen , who stopped and spoke a few cordial words to them . 
She was dressed entirely and very simply in black , with a quaint flat black hat and a black cape . 
The only bit of color about her was a black and white parasol with a gold handle . 
It was , however , her face which held me , for it gave me a wholly different impression of the Queen from those I had received from her photographs . 
Behind her , as a personal attendant , strode an enormous East Indian in full native costume , and closely surrounding her were gentlemen of her house hold , each in uniform . 
The Queen , however , was getting into the spirit of the occasion . 
All of them literally blazed with jewels , and the Countess of Aberdeen wore the famous Aber deen emerald . 
At Lady Battersea's reception I had my first memorial meeting with Mary Anderson Navarro , and was able to thank her for the pleasure she had given me in Boston so long ago . 
Then I reproached her mildly for taking herself away from us , pointing out that a great gift had been given her which she should have continued to share with the world . 
Come and see my baby , '' laughed Madame Navarro . 
That's the best argument I can offer to refute yours . 
'' At the same reception I had an interesting talk with James Bryce . 
He had recently written his American Commonwealth , and I had just read it . 
It was , therefore , the first subject I introduced in our conversation . 
Mr. Bryce's comment amused me . 
These were not his exact words , but his meaning was unmistak able and his mental attitude artlessly sincere . 
And , on reflection , I agree with him that the American Commonwealth is something of an intellectual hurdle for the average human mind . 
Also , for the first time in the history of Geneva , the buildings of Parliament were opened to women and a woman's organization was given the key to the city . 
At that time the Swiss women were making their fight for a vote in church matters , and we helped their cause as much as we could . 
To day many Swiss women are permitted to exercise this right the first political privilege free Switzerland has given them . 
The International Alliance meeting in Amster dam in was the largest held up to that time , and much of its success was due to Dr . 
Aletta Jacobs , the president of the National Suffrage Association of Holland . 
Jacobs had some wonderful helpers among the women of her country , and she herself was an ideal leader patient , enthusiastic , and tire less . 
That year the governments of Australia , Nor way , and Finland paid the expenses of the delegates from those countries a heartening innovation . 
She wrote both words and music of her cantata and directed it admirably and the musicians of the Queen's Band entered fully into its spirit and played like men inspired . 
That night we had more music , as well as a never to be forgotten exhibition of folk dancing . 
I was asked to preside at the suffrage meetings on the artless and obvious theory that I would thus be kept too busy to say much . 
She said she would say a very few . 
It gave us the best and timeliest help we could have had , and was a great impetus to the movement . 
Augsburg of Munich , and Mrs. Philip Snowden of England . 
Augsburg wore her hair short and dressed in a most eccentric manner but we forgot her appearance as we listened to her , for she was an inspired speaker . 
Selma Lagerlof's speech made the great audience weep . 
The speech made so great an impres sion that we had it translated and distributed among the Swedes of the United States wherever we held meetings in Swedish localities . 
Miss Lagerlof interested me extremely , and I was delighted by an invitation to breakfast with her one morning . 
She is self conscious about her English , but really speaks our language very well . 
Her great interest at the time was in improving the condition of the peasants near her home . 
She talked of this work and of her books and of the Council programme with such friendly in timacy that when we parted I felt that I had always known her . 
I began my address at a quarter of twelve and left the hall at midnight . 
Later I learned that the last speaker began her remarks at a quarter past one in the morning . 
It may be in order to add here that Vienna did for me what Berlin had done for Susan B. Anthony it gave me the ovation of my life . 
At the conclusion of my speech the great audience rose and , still stand ing , cheered for many minutes . 
He was very German , and very , very frank . 
After one pained look at me he rose to leave the hall . 
THAT old woman ! '' he exclaimed . 
She cannot make herself heard . 
'' He was half way down the aisle when the opening words of my address caught up with him and stopped him . 
He crowded into an already over occupied pew and stared at me with goggling eyes . 
Mein Gott ! '' he gasped . 
Mein Gott , she could be heard ANYWHERE . 
'' The meeting at Budapest was a great personal triumph for Mrs. Catt . 
But it was a great success in every way and a delightful feature of it was the hospitality of the city officials and , indeed , of the whole Hungarian people . 
Our membership has grown from , women to more than , , and the number of auxiliary societies has increased in propor tion . 
Instead of the old time experience of one campaign in ten years , we now have from five to ten campaigns each year . 
From an original yearly expenditure of , or , in our campaign work , we now expend from , to , . 
In full suffrage prevailed in four states we now have it in twelve . 
It has become an issue which engages the attention of the entire nation and toward this result every woman work ing for the Cause has contributed to an inspiring degree . 
Splendid team work , and that alone , has made our present success possible and our eventual triumph in every state inevitable . 
Every officer in our organization , every leader in our campaigns , every speaker , every worker in the ranks , however humble , has done her share . 
I do not claim anything so fantastic and Utopian as universal harmony among us . 
We have had our troubles and our differences . 
At every annual convention since the one at Wash ington in there has been an effort to depose me from the presidency . 
There have been some splendid fighters among my opponents fine and high minded women who sincerely believe that at sixty eight I am getting too old for my big job . 
Certainly I shall resign it with alacrity when the majority of women in the organiza tion wish me to do so . 
At present a large majority proves annually that it still has faith in my leader ship , and with this assurance I am content to work on . 
She and her small sister of six had declared themselves suffragettes , and as the first result of their conver sion to the Cause both had been laughed at by their schoolmates . 
'' Nothing bigger can come to a human being than to love a great Cause more than life itself , and to have the privilege throughout life of working for that Cause . 
As for life's other gifts , I have had some of them , too . 
Though I have given all I had , I have received a thousand times more than I have given . 
Neither the world nor my Cause is indebted to me but from the depths of a full and very grateful heart I acknowledge my lasting indebtedness to them both . 
