There are two of them , the fifth and the ninth , from which some excisions are necessary but in the main I hope that they may be reproduced as they stand . 
I don't know why it is for , now that I come to think of it , I have never enjoyed very much of your confidence in return . 
But that may be my fault . 
Perhaps you don't find me sympathetic , even though I have every wish to be . 
I can only say that I find you intensely so , and perhaps I presume too much upon the fact . 
But no , every instinct in my nature tells me that I don't bore you by my confidences . 
Can you remember Cullingworth at the University ? You never were in the athletic set , and so it is possible that you don't . 
Anyway , I'll take it for granted that you don't , and explain it all from the beginning . 
I'm sure that you would know his photograph , however , for the reason that he was the ugliest and queerest looking man of our year . 
He was well grown , five foot nine perhaps , with square shoulders , an arching chest , and a quick jerky way of walking . 
He had a round strong head , bristling with short wiry black hair . 
His face was wonderfully ugly , but it was the ugliness of character , which is as attractive as beauty . 
A slight wiry moustache covered his upper lip , and his teeth were yellow , strong , and overlapping . 
of the outward James Cullingworth . 
But the inner man , after all , was what was most worth noting . 
I don't pretend to know what genius is . 
Carlyle's definition always seemed to me to be a very crisp and clear statement of what it is NOT . 
In this sense Cullingworth was the greatest genius that I have ever known . 
He never seemed to work , and yet he took the anatomy prize over the heads of all the ten hour a day men . 
You would think that his one mission in life was to invent torpedoes . 
This ingenuity was joined to an extremely sanguine nature . 
I read over what I have written , but I can see that I give you no real insight into the demoniac cleverness of Cullingworth . 
His views upon medicine were most revolutionary , but I daresay that if things fulfil their promise I may have a good deal to say about them in the sequel . 
, his thundering voice , and his ugly , powerful face , he had quite the most marked individuality of any man that I have ever known . 
So I must just give you one or two other points which may make his character more clear to you . 
He had a dash of the heroic in him . 
On one occasion he was placed in such a position that he must choose between compromising a lady , or springing out of a third floor window . 
Without a moment's hesitation he hurled himself out of the window . 
If I have to say anything that gives a bad impression of the man , put that upon the other side . 
He was fond of rough horse play but it was better to avoid it with him , for you could never tell what it might lead to . 
His temper was nothing less than infernal . 
He would be dragged off , panting and speechless with fury , with his wiry hair bristling straight up like a fighting terrier's . 
This pugnacious side of his character would be worthily used sometimes . 
I remember that an address which was being given to us by an eminent London specialist was much interrupted by a man in the front row , who amused himself by interjecting remarks . 
The lecturer appealed to his audience at last . 
Perhaps you'll make me , said the fellow , turning a contemptuous face over his shoulder . 
Cullingworth closed his note book , and began to walk down on the tops of the desks to the delight of the three hundred spectators . 
It was fine to see the deliberate way in which he picked his way among the ink bottles . 
As he sprang down from the last bench on to the floor , his opponent struck him a smashing blow full in the face . 
Cullingworth got his bulldog grip on him , however , and rushed him backwards out of the class room . 
One of his eyes looked like an over ripe damson , but we gave him three cheers as he made his way back to his seat . 
Then we went on with the dangers of Placenta Praevia . 
He was not a man who drank hard , but a little drink would have a very great effect upon him . 
Then it was that the ideas would surge from his brain , each more fantastic and ingenious than the last . 
And if ever he did get beyond the borderland he would do the most amazing things . 
Intoxication brought all kinds of queer little peculiarities with it . 
One of them was that he could walk or run perfectly straight , but that there always came a time when he unconsciously returned upon his tracks and retraced his steps again . 
This had a strange effect sometimes , as in the instance which I am about to tell you . 
The official put forward his face to reply when Cullingworth drove his fist through the little hole with the force of a piston . 
The clerk flew backwards off his stool , and his yell of pain and indignation brought some police and railway men to his assistance . 
They pursued Cullingworth but he , as active and as fit as a greyhound , outraced them all , and vanished into the darkness , down the long , straight street . 
His little peculiarity had asserted itself , you see , and he had unconsciously turned in his flight . 
They tripped him up , flung themselves upon him , and after a long and desperate struggle dragged him to the police station . 
At his invitation , the witnesses and the police trooped after him to the nearest hotel , and the affair ended in universal whisky and sodas . 
I'll suppose , however , that I have not failed and I will proceed to tell you , my most patient of confidants , something of my personal relations with Cullingworth . 
When I first made a casual acquaintance with him he was a bachelor . 
Well , I went up to his lodgings with him , and was introduced to Mrs. Cullingworth . 
She was a timid , little , sweet faced , grey eyed woman , quiet voiced and gentle mannered . 
She could be obstinate , too , in a gentle , dove like sort of way but her obstinacy lay always in the direction of backing up his sayings and doings . 
They were living in the most singular style , in a suite of four small rooms , over a grocer's shop . 
The furniture was the sparest possible . 
Cullingworth used to squat upon a pile of yearly volumes of the British Medical Journal in the corner . 
I was a frequent visitor to the Cullingworths , for the pleasure that I got was made the sweeter by the pleasure which I hoped that I gave . 
They knew no one , and desired to know no one so that socially I seemed to be the only link that bound them to the world . 
I even ventured to interfere in the details of their little menage . 
Our evening occupations just about that time were of a most extraordinary character . 
You are aware that there is a substance , called waxy matter , which is deposited in the tissues of the body during the course of certain diseases . 
What this may be and how it is formed has been a cause for much bickering among pathologists . 
Cullingworth had strong views upon the subject , holding that the waxy matter was really the same thing as the glycogen which is normally secreted by the liver . 
But it is one thing to have an idea , and another to be able to prove it . 
Above all , we wanted some waxy matter with which to experiment . 
But fortune favoured us in the most magical way . 
The Professor of Pathology had come into possession of a magnificent specimen of the condition . 
Cullingworth saw his chance , and acted on the instant . 
Slipping out of the classroom , he threw open the ice chest , rolled his ulster round the dreadful glistening mass , closed the chest again , and walked quietly away . 
I have no doubt that to this day the disappearance of that waxy liver is one of the most inexplicable mysteries in the career of our Professor . 
That evening , and for many evenings to come , we worked upon our liver . 
For our experiments it was necessary to subject it all to great heat in an endeavour to separate the nitrogenous cellular substance from the non nitrogenous waxy matter . 
With our limited appliances the only way we could think of was to cut it into fine pieces and cook it in a frying pan . 
So night after night the curious spectacle might have been seen of a beautiful young woman and two very earnest young men busily engaged in making these grim fricassees . 
Again , as he was a mere student without any letters after his name , he got scant attention , and I never heard that he gained over a single supporter . 
At the end of the year we both passed our examinations and became duly qualified medical men . 
The Cullingworths vanished away , and I never heard any more of them , for he was a man who prided himself upon never writing a letter . 
His father had formerly a very large and lucrative practice in the West of Scotland , but he died some years ago . 
I had a vague idea , founded upon some chance remark of his , that Cullingworth had gone to see whether the family name might still stand him in good stead there . 
As for me I began , as you will remember that I explained in my last , by acting as assistant in my father's practice . 
You know , however , that at its best it is not worth more than L a year , with no room for expansion . 
This is not large enough to keep two of us at work . 
Then , again , there are times when I can see that my religious opinions annoy the dear old man . 
On the whole , and for every reason , I think that it would be better if I were out of this . 
As a rule , I simply get my testimonials returned without any comment , which is the sort of thing that teaches a man humility . 
Of course , it is very pleasant to live with the mater , and my little brother Paul is a regular trump . 
I am teaching him boxing and you should see him put his tiny fists up , and counter with his right . 
He got me under the jaw this evening , and I had to ask for poached eggs for supper . 
And all this brings me up to the present time and the latest news . 
It is that I had a telegram from Cullingworth this morning after nine months' silence . 
It was dated from Avonmouth , the town where I had suspected that he had settled , and it said simply , Come at once . 
I have urgent need of you . 
Of course , I shall go by the first train to morrow . 
It may mean anything or nothing . 
In my heart of hearts I hope and believe that old Cullingworth sees an opening for me either as his partner or in some other way . 
I always believed that he would turn up trumps , and make my fortune as well as his own . 
He knows that if I am not very quick or brilliant I am fairly steady and reliable . 
Yesterday was my birthday , and I was two and twenty years of age . 
For two and twenty years have I swung around the sun . 
It is not for want of inquiry , or from indifference . 
I have mastered the principles of several religions . 
They have all shocked me by the violence which I should have to do to my reason to accept the dogmas of any one of them . 
Their ethics are usually excellent . 
So are the ethics of the common law of England . 
Mind , my dear Bertie , I do not wish to run down your view or that of any other man . 
We who claim toleration should be the first to extend it to others . 
I am only indicating my own position , as I have often done before . 
And I know your reply so well . 
Can't I hear your grave voice saying Have faith ! Your conscience allows you to . 
Well , mine won't allow me . 
I see so clearly that faith is not a virtue , but a vice . 
It is a goat which has been herded with the sheep . 
If a man deliberately shut his physical eyes and refused to use them , you would be as quick as any one in seeing that it was immoral and a treason to Nature . 
And yet you would counsel a man to shut that far more precious gift , the reason , and to refuse to use it in the most intimate question of life . 
The reason cannot help in such a matter , you reply . 
I answer that to say so is to give up a battle before it is fought . 
My reason SHALL help me , and when it can help no longer I shall do without help . 
HOME , th April , . 
Well , my dear Bertie , here I am again in your postbox . 
It's not a fortnight since I wrote you that great long letter , and yet you see I have news enough to make another formidable budget . 
you have a friend who has retained it . 
When I wrote to you last I was on the eve of going down to join the Cullingworths at Avonmouth , with every hope that he had found some opening for me . 
I must tell you at some length the particulars of that expedition . 
I travelled down part of the way with young Leslie Duncan , whom I think you know . 
He was gracious enough to consider that a third class carriage and my company were to be preferred to a first class with solitude . 
My tastes are so simple that I cannot imagine any advantage which wealth can give save indeed the exquisite pleasure of helping a good man or a good cause . 
, and the mater could not quite determine whether it was a trait of madness or of nobility . 
We fell into the most intimate talk , which lasted all the way to Avonmouth indeed , so interested was I that I very nearly passed through the place without knowing it . 
He had the defects as well as the virtues of his class , for he was absolutely reactionary in his views . 
We discussed religion with fervour , and his theology was somewhere about the Early Pliocene . 
He might have chattered the matter over with a priest of Charlemagne's Court , and they would have shaken hands after every sentence . 
He would acknowledge this and claim it as a merit . 
It was consistency in his eyes . 
It is not the shaven patch on the outside , but it is the sixty ounces within which is the real mark of election . 
You know that you are turning up your nose at me , Bertie . 
I can see you do it . 
But I'll come off the thin ice , and you shall have nothing but facts now . 
jammed on the back of his head , with his bristling hair spurting out in front of it . 
In every way , save that he wore a collar , he was the same Cullingworth as ever . 
I was , as you may imagine , all in a tingle to know what it was that he wanted with me . 
However , as he made no allusion to it , I did not care to ask , and , during our longish walk , we talked about indifferent matters . 
It was football first , I remember , whether Richmond had a chance against Blackheath , and the way in which the new passing game was shredding the old scrimmages . 
I can see him now stopping , with his face leaning forward and his yellow tusks gleaming in the lamplight . 
, why was armour abandoned , eh ? What ! I'll tell you why . 
It was because the weight of metal that would protect a man who was standing up was more than he could carry . 
But battles are not fought now a days by men who are standing up . 
Your infantry are all lying on their stomachs , and it would take very little to protect them . 
And steel has improved , Munro ! Chilled steel ! Bessemer ! Bessemer ! Very good . 
How much to cover a man ? Fourteen inches by twelve , meeting at an angle so that the bullet will glance . 
A notch at one side for the rifle . 
There you have it , laddie the Cullingworth patent portable bullet proof shield ! Weight ? Oh , the weight would be sixteen pounds . 
Each company carries its shields in go carts , and they are served out on going into action . 
Give me twenty thousand good shots , and I'll go in at Calais and come out at Pekin . 
Think of it , my boy ! the moral effect . 
One side gets home every time and the other plasters its bullets up against steel plates . 
No troops would stand it . 
The nation that gets it first will pitchfork the rest of Europe over the edge . 
They're bound to have it all of them . 
There's about eight million of them on a war footing . 
Let us suppose that only half of them have it . 
I say only half , because I don't want to be too sanguine . 
That's four million , and I should take a royalty of four shillings on wholesale orders . 
But not a word all the time as to what it was that made him send me that urgent wire which brought me to Avonmouth . 
The moon had broken out and shone upon the high peaked roof , and upon the gables at each corner . 
When he knocked it was opened by a footman with red plush knee breeches . 
I began to perceive that my friend's success must have been something colossal . 
When we came down to the dining room for supper , Mrs. Cullingworth was waiting there to greet me . 
I was sorry to see that she was pale and weary looking . 
All the time , however , not one word as to the object of my journey . 
When the supper was finished , Cullingworth led the way into a small sitting room , where we both lit our pipes , and Mrs. Cullingworth her cigarette . 
He sat for some little time in silence , and then bounding up rushed to the door and flung it open . 
Having satisfied himself now that there were no spies or listeners he threw himself down into his armchair . 
Munro , said he , prodding at me with his pipe , what I wanted to tell you is , that I am utterly , hopelessly , and irretrievably ruined . 
My chair was tilted on its back legs as he spoke , and I assure you that I was within an ace of going over . 
Down like a pack of cards came all my dreams as to the grand results which were to spring from my journey to Avonmouth . 
Yes , Bertie , I am bound to confess it my first thought was of my own disappointment , and my second of the misfortune of my friends . 
He had the most diabolical intuitions , or I a very tell tale face , for he added at once Sorry to disappoint you , my boy . 
That's not what you expected to hear , I can see . 
Well , I stammered , it IS rather a surprise , old chap . 
From the house , and the footman , and the furniture , said he . 
Well , they've eaten me up among them . 
licked me clean , bones and gravy . 
I'm done for , my boy , unless . 
here I saw a question in his eyes unless some friend were to lend me his name on a bit of stamped paper . 
I can't do it , Cullingworth , said I. It's a wretched thing to have to refuse a friend and if I had money . 
Wait till you're asked , Munro , he interrupted , with his ugliest of expressions . 
Look here , laddie , he went on d'you see that pile of letters on the left of the table ? Yes . 
And d'you see those documents on the right ? Well , those are County Court summonses . 
And , now , d'you see that he picked up a little ledger , and showed me three or , four names scribbled on the first page . 
That's the practice , he roared , and laughed until the great veins jumped out on his forehead . 
His wife laughed heartily also , just as she would have wept , had he been so disposed . 
It's this way , Munro , said he , when he had got over his paroxysm . 
You have probably heard in fact , I have told you myself that my father had the finest practice in Scotland . 
As far as I could judge he was a man of no capacity , but still there you are he had it . 
Well , he's been dead seven years , and fifty nets dipping into his little fish pond . 
However , when I passed I thought my best move was to come down to the old place , and see whether I couldn't piece the thing together again . 
The name ought to be worth something , I thought . 
But it was no use doing the thing in a half hearted way . 
Not a bit of use in that , Munro . 
The kind of people who came to him were wealthy , and must see a fine house and a man in livery . 
Off I started in rare style , and sank my last cent in furniture . 
But it's no use , laddie . 
I can't hold on any longer . 
I got two accidents and an epileptic twenty two pounds , eight and sixpence that's the lot ! What will you do , then ? That's what I wanted your advice about . 
That's why I wired for you . 
I always respected your opinion , my boy , and I thought that now was the time to have it . 
It struck me that if he had asked for it nine months before there would have been more sense in it . 
You really think , said I , that it is no use holding on here ? He jumped up , and began pacing the room in his swift jerky way . 
You take warning from it , Munro , said he . 
You've got to start yet . 
Take my tip , and go where no one knows you . 
It's all very well to talk about friendship and family connections but when a man has a pain in the stomach he doesn't care a toss about all that . 
I'd stick it up in gold , letters in every medical class room have it carved across the gate of the University that if a man wants friends be must go among strangers . 
It's all up here , Munro so there's no use in advising me to hold on . 
I asked him how much he owed . 
It came to about seven hundred pounds . 
The rent alone was two hundred . 
He had already raised money on the furniture , and his whole assets came to less than a tenner . 
Of course , there was only one possible thing that I could advise . 
You must call your creditors together , said I they can see for themselves that you are young and energetic sure to succeed sooner or later . 
If they push you into a corner now , they can get nothing . 
Make that clear to them . 
But if you make a fresh start elsewhere and succeed , you may pay them all in full . 
I see no other possible way out of it . 
I knew that you'd say that , and it's just what I thought myself . 
Isn't it , Hetty ? Well , then , that settles it and I am much obliged to you for your advice , and that's all we'll say about the matter to night . 
I've made my shot and missed . 
Next time I shall hit , and it won't be long either . 
His failure did not seem to weigh very heavily on his mind , for in a few minutes he was shouting away as lustily as ever . 
Whiskey and hot water were brought in , that we might all drink luck to the second venture . 
And this whiskey led us to what might have been a troublesome affair . 
This led us round to the ways in which a man might take his exercise indoors , and that to boxing . 
Cullingworth took a couple of pairs of gloves out of a cupboard , and proposed that we should fight a round or two then and there . 
If I hadn't been a fool , Bertie , I should never have consented . 
It's one of my many weaknesses , that , whether it's a woman or a man , anything like a challenge sets me off . 
But I knew Cullingworth's ways , and I told you in my last what a lamb of a temper he has . 
None the less , we pushed back the table , put the lamp on a high bracket , and stood up to one another . 
The moment I looked him in the face I smelled mischief . 
He had a gleam of settled malice in his eye . 
I believe it was my refusal to back his paper which was running in his head . 
, and his jaw set like a rat trap . 
I led off , and then in he came hitting with both hands , and grunting like a pig at every blow . 
From what I could see of him he was no boxer at all , but just a formidable rough and tumble fighter . 
Look here , Cullingworth , said I there's not much boxing about this game . 
Yes , I hit pretty hard , don't I ? If you come boring into me like that , I'm bound to hit you out again , I said . 
I want to play light if you'll let me . 
The words were not out of my mouth before he was on me like a flash . 
I slipped him again but the room was so small , and he as active as a cat , that there was no getting away from him . 
He was on me once more with a regular football rush that knocked me off my balance . 
Before I knew where I was he got his left on the mark and his right on my ear . 
I tripped over a footstool , and then before I could get my balance he had me on the same ear again , and my head was singing like a tea kettle . 
He was as pleased as possible with himself , blowing out his chest and slapping it with his palms as he took his place in the middle of the room . 
Say when you've had enough , Munro , said he . 
This was pretty stiff , considering that I had two inches the better of him in height , and as many stone in weight , besides being the better boxer . 
In he came with one of his windmill rushes . 
But I was on the look out for him this time . 
He was up in an instant , with a face like a madman . 
You swine ! he shouted . 
Take those gloves off , and put your hands up ! He was tugging at his own to get them off . 
Go on , you silly ass ! said I. What is there to fight about ? He was mad with passion , and chucked his gloves down under the table . 
By God , Munro , he cried , if you don't take those gloves off , I'll go for you , whether you have them on or not . 
Have a glass of soda water , said I. He made a crack at me . 
You're afraid of me , Munro . 
That's what's the matter with you , he snarled . 
This was getting too hot , Bertie . 
I saw all the folly of the thing . 
For all that , I took my gloves off , and I think perhaps it was the wisest course after all . 
If Cullingworth once thought he had the whiphand of you , you might be sorry for it afterwards . 
But , as fate would have it , our little barney was nipped in the bud . 
Mrs. Cullingworth came into the room at that instant , and screamed out when she saw her husband . 
His nose was bleeding and his chin was all slobbered with blood , so that I don't wonder that it gave her a turn . 
James ! she screamed and then to me What is the meaning of this , Mr. Munro ? You should have seen the hatred in her dove's eyes . 
I felt an insane impulse to pick her up and kiss her . 
We've only been having a little spar , Mrs. Cullingworth , said I. Your husband was complaining that he never got any exercise . 
It's all right , Hetty , said he , pulling his coat on again . 
Don't be a little stupid . 
Are the servants gone to bed ? Well , you might bring some water in a basin from the kitchen . 
Sit down , Munro , and light your pipe again . 
I have a hundred things that I want to talk to you about . 
So that was the end of it , and all went smoothly for the rest of the evening . 
When I woke next morning he was in my room , and a funny looking object he was . 
His dressing gown lay on a chair , and he was putting up a fifty six pound dumb bell , without a rag to cover him . 
Nature didn't give him a very symmetrical face , nor the sweetest of expressions but he has a figure like a Greek statue . 
I was amused to see that both his eyes had a touch of shadow to them . 
It was his turn to grin when I sat up and found that my ear was about the shape and consistence of a toadstool . 
However , he was all for peace that morning , and chatted away in the most amiable manner possible . 
I was to go back to my father's that day , but I had a couple of hours with Cullingworth in his consulting room before I left . 
He was in his best form , and full of a hundred fantastic schemes , by which I was to help him . 
His great object was to get his name into the newspapers . 
That was the basis of all success , according to his views . 
It seemed to me that he was confounding cause with effect but I did not argue the point . 
I laughed until my sides ached over the grotesque suggestions which poured from him . 
I was to lie senseless in the roadway , and to be carried into him by a sympathising crowd , while the footman ran with a paragraph to the newspapers . 
But there was the likelihood that the crowd might carry me in to the rival practitioner opposite . 
In various disguises I was to feign fits at his very door , and so furnish fresh copy for the local press . 
Then I was to die absolutely to expire and all Scotland was to resound with how Dr . 
Cullingworth , of Avonmouth , had resuscitated me . 
His ingenious brain rang a thousand changes out of the idea , and his own impending bankruptcy was crowded right out of his thoughts by the flood of half serious devices . 
He would diagnose the cases , too , and estimate their money value until he was hardly articulate . 
There you are ! he would suddenly yell see that man with a limp ! Every morning he goes . 
Displaced semilunar cartilage , and a three months' job . 
The man's worth thirty five shillings a week . 
And there ! I'm hanged if the woman with the rheumatic arthritis isn't round in her bath chair again . 
She's all sealskin and lactic acid . 
It's simply sickening to see how they crowd to that man . 
And such a man ! You haven't seen him . 
All the better for you . 
I don't know what the devil you are laughing at , Munro . 
I can't see where the fun comes in myself . 
Well , it was a short experience that visit to Avonmouth , but I think that I shall remember it all my life . 
Goodness knows , you must be sick enough of the subject , but when I started with so much detail I was tempted to go . 
Mrs. C. would hardly shake hands with me when I said goodbye but I like her the better for that . 
He must have a great deal of good in him , or he could not have won her love and confidence so completely . 
Perhaps there is another Cullingworth behind the scenes a softer , tenderer man , who can love and invite love . 
If there is , I have never got near him . 
And yet I may only have been tapping at the shell . 
Who knows ? For that matter , it is likely enough that he has never got at the real Johnnie Munro . 
But you have , Bertie and I think that you've had a little too much of him this time , only you encourage me to this sort of excess by your sympathetic replies . 
If I ever do hear anything , which is exceedingly doubtful , you may be sure that I will put a finish to this long story . 
HOME , th October , . 
Without any figure of speech I feel quite ashamed when I think of you , Bertie . 
I send you one or two enormously long letters , burdened , as far as I can remember them , with all sorts of useless detail . 
Then , in spite of your kindly answers and your sympathy , which I have done so little to deserve , I drop you completely for more than six months . 
To commence with what is of most moment , you may rest assured that what you said in your last letter about religion has had my most earnest attention . 
, but I think I have the contents in my head . 
Such men are the real enemies of free thought . 
If anything could persuade me to turn traitor to my reason , it would , for example , be the blasphemous and foolish pictures displayed in some of the agnostic journals . 
But every movement has its crowd of camp followers . 
We are like a comet , bright at the head but tailing away into mere gas behind . 
However , every man may speak for himself , and I do not feel that your charge comes home to me . 
I am only bigoted against bigotry , and that I hold to be as legitimate as violence to the violent . 
It is surely a truism to say that neither smallpox nor the plague have brought the same misery upon mankind . 
Catholicism is the more thorough . 
Protestantism is the more reasonable . 
Protestantism adapts itself to modern civilisation . 
Catholicism expects civilisation to adapt itself to it . 
will serve , like buoys dropped down from a sailing vessel , to give the rate and direction of his progress . 
But how do I know what is truth , you ask ? I don't . 
But I know particularly well what isn't . 
And surely that is something to have gained . 
It isn't true that the great central Mind that planned all things is capable of jealousy or of revenge , or of cruelty or of injustice . 
These are human attributes and the book which ascribes them to the Infinite must be human also . 
You must in honesty confess that if these things were presented to us when we were , adults for the first time , we should smile at them . 
But his changes won't be over then . 
His hobble will become a walk , and his walk a run . 
There is no finality CAN be none since the question concerns the infinite . 
All this , which appears too advanced to you to day , will seem reactionary and conservative a thousand years hence . 
This is not quite correct . 
When first I came out of the faith in which I had been reared , I certainly did feel for a time as if my life belt had burst . 
I won't exaggerate and say that I was miserable and plunged in utter spiritual darkness . 
Youth is too full of action for that . 
But I was conscious of a vague unrest , of a constant want of repose , of an emptiness and hardness which I had not noticed in life before . 
I had so identified religion with the Bible that I could not conceive them apart . 
When the foundation proved false , the whole structure came rattling about my ears . 
Even the most material of modern minds would flinch at depicting the Deity as ordering wholesale executions , and hacking kings to pieces upon the horns of altars . 
idea of the Deity , proceed to study Him in His works , which cannot be counterfeited or manipulated . 
Nature is the true revelation of the Deity to man . 
The nearest green field is the inspired page from which you may read all that it is needful for you to know . 
I confess that I have never been able to understand the position of the atheist . 
In fact , I have come to disbelieve in his existence , and to look upon the word as a mere term of theological reproach . 
The very existence of a world carries with it the proof of a world maker , as the table guarantees the pre existence of the carpenter . 
Granting this , one may form what conception one will of that Maker , but one cannot be an atheist . 
Wisdom and power and means directed to an end run all through the scheme of Nature . 
Nor is it only in the large things that we see the ever present solicitude of some intelligent force . 
Nothing is too tiny for that fostering care . 
We see the minute proboscis of the insect carefully adjusted to fit into the calyx of the flower , the most microscopic hair and gland each with its definite purposeful function to perform . 
What matter whether these came by special creation or by evolution ? We know as a matter of fact that they came by evolution , but that only defines the law . 
It does not explain it . 
The idea is inconsistent with the scheme of creation as we see it . 
I say again that no faith is needed to attain the certainty of a most watchful Providence . 
And with this certainty surely we have all that is necessary for an elemental religion . 
The last reformation simplified Catholicism . 
The coming one will simplify Protestantism . 
And when the world is ripe for it another will come and simplify that . 
The ever improving brain will give us an ever broadening creed . 
I thought I could have made my position clear in a page or so . 
But you can see how one point has brought up another . 
Even now I am leaving so much unsaid . 
I can see with such certainty exactly what you will say . 
If you deduce a good Providence from the good things in nature , what do you make of the evil ? That's what you will say . 
Suffice it that I am inclined to deny the existence of evil . 
Not another word will I say upon the subject but if you come back to it yourself , then be it on your own head . 
As I expected , I have not had one word from him since . 
But in a roundabout way I did get some news as to what happened . 
He has , I understand , left Avonmouth , but no one has any idea what has become of him . 
It is generally supposed that he has gone to England . 
He is a strange fellow , but I wish him luck wherever he goes . 
When I came back I settled down once more to the routine of my father's practice , holding on there until something may turn up . 
And for six months I have had to wait a weary six months they have been . 
But you can understand , Bertie , that it is humiliating for a man of my age to have to go about without any money in my pocket . 
It affects me in so many petty ways . 
A poor man may do me a kindness , and I have to seem mean in his eyes . 
I may want a flower for a girl , and must be content to appear ungallant . 
I should like to try it myself , but it would need blending with fiction , and I never had a spark of imagination . 
But I have a vivid recollection of what I went through myself . 
that it was a unique experience but since I have heard the confidences of my father's patients I am convinced that it is the common lot . 
The practice here , although unremunerative , is very busy with its three and sixpenny visits and guinea confinements , so that both the governor and I have had plenty to do . 
You know how I admire him , and yet I fear there is little intellectual sympathy between us . 
He appears to think that those opinions of mine upon religion and politics which come hot from my inmost soul have been assumed either out of indifference or bravado . 
So I have ceased to talk on vital subjects with him , and , though we affect to ignore it , we both know that there is a barrier there . 
Now , with my mother ah , but my mother must have a paragraph to herself . 
But you cannot realise all that she is to me in our domestic life . 
That was always her favourite reading , and I can never think of her without the association of its browny yellow cover . 
Yet she is always hard at work and how she imbibes all her knowledge is a mystery . 
She reads when she knits , she reads when she scrubs , she even reads when she feeds her babies . 
Her hands are worn with work , and yet where is the idle woman who has read as much ? Then , there is her family pride . 
That is a very vital portion of the mother . 
You know how little I think of such things . 
If the Esquire were to be snipped once and for ever from the tail of my name I should be the lighter for it . 
But , ma foi ! to use her own favourite expletive it would not do to say this to her . 
She is broad minded and intensely practical in her ordinary moods , though open to attacks of romance . 
I can recollect her coming to see me at a junction through which my train passed , with a six months' absence on either side of the incident . 
We had five minutes' conversation , my head out of the carriage window . 
Wear flannel next your skin , my dear boy , and never believe in eternal punishment , was her last item of advice as we rolled out of the station . 
She was in the railway carriage and I on the platform the other day . 
Your husband had better get in or we'll go without him , said the guard . 
As we went off , the mother was fumbling furiously in her pocket , and I know that she was looking for a shilling . 
Well , now I want to tell you about the scrape that I got myself into . 
I suppose that I ought to pull a long face over it , but for the life of me I can't help laughing . 
I have you almost up to date in my history now , for what I am going to tell you happened only last week . 
You must know , then , that within the boundaries of this city there are two ladies , a mother and a daughter , whom I shall call Mrs. and Miss Laura Andrews . 
They are patients of the governor's , and have become to some extent friends of the family . 
Madame is Welsh , charming in appearance , dignified in her manners , and High Church in her convictions . 
The daughter is rather taller than the mother , but otherwise they are strikingly alike . 
The mother is thirty six and the daughter eighteen . 
However , fate was to will it otherwise . 
It was the coming home from a dance which first brought Laura and me together . 
You know how easily and suddenly these things happen , beginning in playful teasing and ending in something a little warmer than friendship . 
You squeeze the slender arm which is passed through yours , you venture to take the little gloved hand , you say good night at absurd length in the shadow of the door . 
It is innocent and very interesting , love trying his wings in a first little flutter . 
He will keep his sustained flight later on , the better for the practice . 
There was never any question of engagements between us , nor any suggestion of harm . 
However , we exchanged our little confidences , and met occasionally by appointment , and tried to make our lives brighter without darkening those of any one else . 
I can see you shake your head here and growl , like the comfortable married man that you are , that such relations are very dangerous . 
Well , matters were in this state when one day last week a note came up to the Dad saying that Mrs. Andrews' servant was ill , and would he come at once . 
It was clear that she had not heard me . 
The hall door was ajar , and when I pushed it open , no one was in the hall . 
A sudden fit of roguishness came over me . 
I pushed the drawing room door very slowly wider , crept in on tiptoe , stole quietly across , and bending down , I kissed the artist upon the nape of her neck . 
She turned round with a squeal , and it was the mother ! I don't know whether you have ever been in a tighter corner than that , Bertie . 
It was quite tight enough for me . 
I remember that I smiled as I stole across the carpet on that insane venture . 
I did not smile again that evening . 
It makes me hot now when I think of it . 
Well , I made the most dreadful fool of myself . 
is very dignified and rather reserved , could not believe her senses . 
Then , as the full force of my enormity came upon her she reared herself up until she seemed the tallest and the coldest woman I had ever seen . 
It was an interview with a refrigerator . 
She asked me what I had ever observed in her conduct which had encouraged me to subject her to such an outrage . 
Indeed , she looked rather funny herself , with her palette in one hand , her brush in the other , and the blank astonishment on her face . 
I stammered out something about hoping that she did not mind , which made her more angry than ever . 
The only possible excuse for your conduct , sir , is that you are under the influence of drink , said she . 
I need not say that we do not require the services of a medical man in that condition . 
I did not try to disabuse her of the idea , for really I could see no better explanation so I beat a retreat in a very demoralised condition . 
She wrote a letter to my father about it in the evening , and the old man was very angry indeed . 
So there has been a grand row and not a soul upon earth has the least idea of what it all means , except only yourself as you read this letter . 
You can imagine that this has not contributed to make life here more pleasant , for my father cannot bring himself to forgive me . 
Of course , I don't wonder at his anger . 
I should be just the same myself . 
It does look like a shocking breach of professional honour , and a sad disregard of his interests . 
If he knew the truth he would see that it was nothing worse than a silly ill timed boyish joke . 
However , he never shall know the truth . 
And now there is some chance of my getting something to do . 
We had a letter to night from Christie Howden , the writers to the Signet , saying that they desire an interview with me , in view of a possible appointment . 
We can't imagine what it means , but I am full of hopes . 
I go to morrow morning to see them , and I shall let you know the result . 
Good bye , my dear Bertie ! Your life flows in a steady stream , and mine in a broken torrent . 
Yet I would have every detail of what happens to you . 
HOME , st December , . 
There was a time when it took a brave man to be a Christian . 
Now it takes a brave man not to be . 
But if we are to wear a gag , and hide our thoughts when writing in confidence to our most intimate no , but I won't believe it . 
Until I have that comforting assurance , I shall place a quarantine upon everything which could conceivably be offensive to you . 
Does not lunacy strike you , Bertie , as being a very eerie thing ? It is a disease of the soul . 
All these are mere accessories , the slaves of the lord within . 
Nor is he in the bony framework which is the rack over which nature hangs her veil of flesh . 
In none of these things lies the essence of the man . 
But these filaments only serve to conduct nerve force to muscles and to organs which serve secondary purposes . 
They may themselves therefore be disregarded . 
Nor can we stop here in our elimination . 
This central mass of nervous matter may be pared down on all sides before we seem to get at the very seat of the soul . 
Suicides have shot away the front lobes of the brain , and have lived to repent it . 
Surgeons have cut down upon it and have removed sections . 
Much of it is merely for the purpose of furnishing the springs of motion , and much for the reception of impressions . 
All this may be put aside as we search for the physical seat of what we call the soul the spiritual part of the man . 
The old philosophers who put the soul in the pineal gland were not right , but after all they were uncommonly near the mark . 
You'll find my physiology even worse than my theology , Bertie . 
All this talk about the soul and the brain arises simply from the fact that I have been spending the last few weeks with a lunatic . 
And how it came about I will tell you as clearly as I can . 
Then I mentioned , I think , that I had received a letter from Christie Howden , the lawyers . 
With which accolade out I sallied into the world , the dear soul standing on the steps , peering after me and waving me success . 
Well , I was in considerable trepidation when I reached the office , for I am a much more nervous person than any of my friends will ever credit me with being . 
I understand from Professor Maxwell that you have been looking about for an opening , Mr. Munro , said he . 
Maxwell had said that he would give me a hand if he could but you remember that he had a reputation for giving such promises rather easily . 
I speak of a man as I find him , and to me he has been an excellent friend . 
Your Bachelorship of Medicine will answer for that . 
But Professor Maxwell thought you peculiarly fitted for this vacancy for physical reasons . 
May I ask you what your weight is ? Fourteen stone . 
And you stand , I should judge , about six feet high ? Precisely . 
Accustomed too , as I gather , to muscular exercise of every kind . 
Well , there can be no question that you are the very man for the post , and I shall be very happy to recommend you to Lord Saltire . 
You forget , said I , that I have not yet heard what the position is , or the terms which you offer . 
He began to laugh at that . 
It was a little precipitate on my part , said he but I do not think that we are likely to quarrel as to position or terms . 
You may have heard perhaps of the sad misfortune of our client , Lord Saltire ? Not ? To put it briefly then , his son , the Hon . 
James Derwent , the heir to the estates and the only child , was struck down by the sun while fishing without his hat last July . 
His mind has never recovered from the shock , and he has been ever since in a chronic state of moody sullenness which breaks out every now and then into violent mania . 
His father will not allow him to be removed from Lochtully Castle , and it is his desire that a medical man should stay there in constant attendance upon his son . 
Your physical strength would of course be very useful in restraining those violent attacks of which I have spoken . 
The remuneration will be twelve pounds a month , and you would be required to take over your duties to morrow . 
I walked home , my dear Bertie , with a bounding heart , and the pavement like cotton wool under my feet . 
I found just eightpence in my pocket , and I spent the whole of it on a really good cigar with which to celebrate the occasion . 
Old Cullingworth has always had a very high opinion of lunatics for beginners . 
Get a lunatic , my boy ! Get a lunatic ! he used to say . 
Then it was not only the situation , but the fine connection that it opened up . 
I seemed to see exactly what would happen . 
There would be illness in the family , Lord Saltire himself perhaps , or his wife . 
There would be no time to send for advice . 
I would gain their confidence and become their family attendant . 
They would recommend me to their wealthy friends . 
It was all as clear as possible . 
I was debating before I reached home whether it would be worth my while to give up a lucrative country practice in order to take the Professorship which might be offered me . 
My father took the news philosophically enough , with some rather sardonic remark about my patient and me being well qualified to keep each other company . 
But to my mother it was a flash of joy , followed by a thunderclap of consternation . 
A dreadful vision of Lady Saltire looking over my things and finding the heel out of one of my socks obsessed my mother . 
Out we trudged together , and before evening her soul was at rest , and I had mortgaged in advance my first month's salary . 
She was great , as we walked home , upon the grand people into whose service I was to enter . 
As a matter of fact , my dear , said she , they are in a sense relations of yours . 
You are very closely allied to the Percies , and the Saltires have Percy blood in them also . 
They are only a cadet branch , and you are close upon the main line but still it is not for us to deny the connection . 
She brought a cold sweat out upon me by suggesting that she should make things easy by writing to Lord Saltire and explaining our respective positions . 
Several times during the evening I heard her murmur complacently that they were only the cadet branch . 
Am I not the slowest of story tellers ? But you encourage me to it by your sympathetic interest in details . 
However , I shall move along a little faster now . 
Next morning I was off to Lochtully , which , as you know , is in the north of Perthshire . 
It stands three miles from the station , a great gray pinnacled house , with two towers cocking out above the fir woods , like a hare's ears from a tussock of grass . 
As we drove up to the door I felt pretty solemn not at all as the main line should do when it condescends to visit the cadet branch . 
Into the hall as I entered came a grave learned looking man , with whom in my nervousness I was about to shake hands cordially . 
Fortunately he forestalled the impending embrace by explaining that he was the butler . 
He showed me into a small study , where everything stank of varnish and morocco leather , there to await the great man . 
He proved when he came to be a much less formidable figure than his retainer indeed , I felt thoroughly at my ease with him from the moment he opened his mouth . 
He is grizzled , red faced , sharp featured , with a prying and yet benevolent expression , very human and just a trifle vulgar . 
She froze me up again just as I was budding out under the influence of her husband . 
However , the thing that interested me most of all was to see my patient , to whose room I was taken by Lord Saltire after we had had a cup of tea . 
The room was a large bare one , at the end of a long corridor . 
Near the door was seated a footman , placed there to fill up the gap between two doctors , and looking considerably relieved at my advent . 
sat a tall , yellow haired , yellow bearded , young man , who raised a pair of startled blue eyes as we entered . 
He was turning over the pages of a bound copy of the Illustrated London News . 
James , said Lord Saltire , this is Dr . 
Stark Munro , who has come to look after you . 
My patient mumbled something in his beard , which seemed to me suspiciously like Damn Dr . 
Stark Munro ! The peer evidently thought the same , for he led me aside by the elbow . 
You must not be offended by anything he may say or do . 
Not in the least , said I. There is a taint of this sort upon my wife's side , I whispered the little lord her uncle's symptoms were identical . 
Peterson says that the sunstroke was only the determining cause . 
The predisposition was already there . 
I may tell you that the footman will always be in the next room , so that you can call him if you need his assistance . 
Well , it ended by lord and lacquey moving off , and leaving me with my patient . 
Not a word could I get out of him in reply . 
He sat as sullen as a mule , with a kind of sneer about his handsome face , which showed me very well that he had heard everything . 
He doesn't read , it seems , and will do nothing but look at pictures . 
I caught at the wrist and turned swiftly round , but too late to prevent my handkerchief being whisked out and concealed behind the Hon . 
James Derwent , who sat grinning at me like a mischievous monkey . 
Come , I may want that , said I , trying to treat the matter as a joke . 
He used some language which was more scriptural than religious . 
I saw that he did not mean giving it up , but I was determined not to let him get the upper hand over me . 
I grabbed for the handkerchief and he , with a snarl , caught my hand in both of his . 
He had a powerful grip , but I managed to get his wrist and to give it a wrench round , until , with a howl , he dropped my property . 
What fun , said I , pretending to laugh . 
Now , you take it up , and see if I can get it again . 
But he had had enough of that game . 
Yet he appeared to be better humoured than before the incident , and I got a few short answers to the questions which I put to him . 
And here comes in the text which started me preaching about lunacy at the beginning of this letter . 
WHAT a marvellous thing it is ! This man , from all I can learn of him , has suddenly swung clean over from one extreme of character to the other . 
Every plus has in an instant become a minus . 
He's another man , but in the same case . 
most fastidious in dress and speech . 
Now he is a foul tongued rough ! He had a nice taste in literature . 
Now he stares at you if you speak of Shakespeare . 
Queerest of all , he used to be a very high and dry Tory in his opinions . 
He is fond now of airing the most democratic views , and in a needlessly offensive way . 
When I did get on terms with him at last , I found that there was nothing on which he could be drawn on to talk so soon as on politics . 
It was some weeks , however , before I gained his confidence , so far as to be able to hold a real conversation with him . 
For a long time he was very sullen and suspicious , resenting the constant watch which I kept upon him . 
This could not be relaxed , for he was full of the most apish tricks . 
One day he got hold of my tobacco pouch , and stuffed two ounces of my tobacco into the long barrel of an Eastern gun which hangs on the wall . 
He jammed it all down with the ramrod , and I was never able to get it up again . 
Another time he threw an earthenware spittoon through the window , and would have sent the clock after it had I not prevented him . 
Every day I took him for a two hours' constitutional , save when it rained , and then we walked religiously for the same space up and down the room . 
Heh ! but it was a deadly , dreary , kind of life . 
I was supposed to have my eye upon him all day , with a two hour interval every afternoon and an evening to myself upon Fridays . 
Gibbon gave me a couple of enchanting weeks . 
You know the effect that he produces . 
Now and again young Derwent introduced some excitement into my dull life . 
On one occasion when we were walking in the grounds , he suddenly snatched up a spade from a grass plot , and rushed at an inoffensive under gardener . 
The man ran screaming for his life , with my patient cursing at his very heels , and me within a few paces of him . 
When I at last laid my hand on his collar , he threw down his weapon and burst into shrieks of laughter . 
It was only mischief and not ferocity but when that under gardener saw us coming after that he was off with a face like a cream cheese . 
At night the attendant slept in a camp bed at the foot of the patient's , and my room was next door , so that I could be called if necessary . 
You cannot imagine a more ignorant , intolerant , narrow minded woman than she . 
If she had only been content to be silent and hidden that small brain of hers , it would not have mattered but there was no end to her bitter and exasperating clacking . 
What was she after all but a thin pipe for conveying disease from one generation to another ? She was bounded by insanity upon the north and upon the south . 
One day she was waxing eloquent as to the crime of a minister of an Episcopal church performing any service in a Presbyterian chapel . 
Some neighbouring minister had done it , it seems and if he had been marked down in a pot house she could not have spoken with greater loathing . 
I suppose that my eyes were less under control than my tongue , for she suddenly turned upon me with I see that you don't agree with me , Dr . 
I replied quietly that I did not , and tried to change the conversation but she was not to be shaken off . 
I added that I hoped the time was soon coming when good men of all creeds would throw this lumber overboard and join hands together . 
She half rose , almost speechless with indignation . 
I presume , said she , that you are one of those people who would separate the Church from the State ? Most certainly , I answered . 
She stood erect in a kind of cold fury , and swept out of the room . 
Jimmy began to chuckle , and his father looked perplexed . 
I am sorry that my opinions are offensive to Lady Saltire , I remarked . 
Yes , yes it's a pity a pity , said he well , well , we must say what we think but it's a pity you think it a very great pity . 
I quite expected to get my dismissal over this business , and indeed , indirectly I may say that I did so . 
From that day Lady Saltire was as rude to me as she could be , and never lost an opportunity of making attacks upon what she imagined to be my opinions . 
Of these I never took the slightest notice but at last on an evil day she went for me point blank , so that there was no getting away from her . 
It was just at the end of lunch , when the footman had left the room . 
She had been talking about Lord Saltire's going up to London to vote upon some question in the House of Lords . 
Munro , said she , turning acidly upon me , that is also an institution which has not been fortunate enough to win your approval . 
It is a question , Lady Saltire , which I should much prefer not to discuss , I answered . 
Oh , you might just as well have the courage of your convictions , said she . 
Since you desire to despoil the National Church , it is natural enough that you should wish also to break up the Constitution . 
I have heard that an atheist is always a red republican . 
Lord Saltire rose , wishing , I have no doubt , to put an end to the conversation . 
Jimmy and I rose also and suddenly I saw that instead of moving towards the door he was going to his mother . 
Knowing his little tricks , I passed my hand under his arm , and tried to steer him away . 
She noticed it , however , and interfered . 
Did you wish to speak to me , James ? I want to whisper in your ear , mother . 
Pray don't excite yourself , sir , said I , again attempting to detain him . 
Lady Saltire arched her aristocratic eyebrows . 
Munro , that you push your authority rather far when you venture to interfere between a mother and her son , said she . 
What was it , my poor dear boy ? Jimmy bent down and whispered something in her ear . 
The blood rushed into her pale face , and she sprang from him as if he had struck her . 
This is your doing , Dr . 
Munro , she cried furiously . 
You have corrupted my son's mind , and encouraged him to insult his mother . 
My dear ! My dear ! said her husband soothingly , and I quietly led the recalcitrant Jimmy upstairs . 
I asked him what it was that he had said to his mother , but got only chuckles in reply . 
I had a presentiment that I should hear more of the matter and I was not wrong . 
Lord Saltire called me into his study in the evening . 
The fact is , doctor , said he , that Lady Saltire has been extremely annoyed and grieved about what occurred at lunch to day . 
Of course , you can imagine that such an expression coming from her own son , shocked her more than I can tell . 
I assure you , Lord Saltire , said I , that I have no idea at all what passed between Lady Saltire and my patient . 
I am quite convinced that what you say is true , he answered but Lady Saltire is unhappily of the opinion that you have instilled these ideas into him . 
You know that it is a little difficult sometimes to reason with a lady . 
It put me in a tight corner , Bertie but my mind was instantly made up . 
From the first word I had read my dismissal in every uneasy glance of his little eyes . 
I am afraid , said I , that that is rather further than I am prepared to go . 
I shall be happy , however , to remain here until you have found some one to take over my duties . 
Patterson could come in tomorrow morning . 
Then to morrow morning let it be , I answered . 
Munro I will see that you have your cheque before you go . 
His grief , however , did not prevent him from brushing my new top hat the wrong way on the morning that I left . 
I did not notice it until I reached the station , and a most undignified object I must have looked when I took my departure . 
So ends the history of a failure . 
It was a preliminary canter for the big race , perhaps . 
My mother was disappointed , but tried to show it as little as possible . 
My father was a little sardonic over the matter . 
I fear that the gap between us widens . 
By the way , an extraordinary card arrived from Cullingworth during my absence . 
You are my man , said he mind that I am to have you when I want you . 
There was no date and no address , but the postmark was Bradfield in the north of England . 
Does it mean nothing ? Or may it mean everything ? We must wait and see . 
Good bye , old man . 
Let me hear equally fully about your own affairs . 
How did the Rattray business go off ? V. MERTON ON THE MOORS , th March , . 
I was so delighted , my dear chap , to have your assurance that nothing that I have said or could say upon the subject of religion could offend you . 
It is difficult to tell you how pleased and relieved I was at your cordial letter . 
I have no one to whom I can talk upon such matters . 
I am all driven inwards , and thought turns sour when one lets it stagnate like that . 
It is a grand thing to be able to tell it all to a sympathetic listener and the more so perhaps when he looks at it all from another standpoint . 
It steadies and sobers one . 
Those whom I love best are those who have least sympathy with my struggles . 
They talk about having faith , as if it could be done by an act of volition . 
They might as well tell me to have black hair instead of red . 
I might simulate it perhaps by refusing to use my reason at all in religious matters . 
But I will never be traitor to the highest thing that God has given me . 
It is more moral to use it and go wrong , than to forego it and be right . 
With all respect to you , Bertie , it is very easy to be orthodox . 
A man who wanted mental peace and material advancement in this world would certainly choose to be so . 
As Smiles says A dead fish can float with the stream , but it takes a man to swim against it . 
And then how clouded has become that fine daybreak of Christianity ! Its representatives have risen from the manger to the palace , from the fishing smack to the House of Lords . 
Nor is that other old potentate in the Vatican , with his art treasures , his guards , and his cellars of wine in a more logical position . 
They are all good and talented men , and in the market of brains are worth perhaps as much as they get . 
But try putting one of them out of their due precedence at the next Court reception . 
It happened some little time ago with a Cardinal , and England rang with his protests . 
But surely all will be well with us . 
If not , then He who made us is evil , which is not to be thought . 
Surely , then , all must go very well with us ! I feel ashamed when I read this over . 
My mind fills in all the trains of thought of which you have the rude ends peeping out from this tangle . 
Make what you can of it , dear Bertie , and believe that it all comes from my innermost heart . 
Above all may I be kept from becoming a partisan , and tempering with truth in order to sustain a case . 
You'll see from the address of this letter , Bertie , that I have left Scotland and am in Yorkshire . 
I have been here three months , and am now on the eve of leaving under the strangest circumstances and with the queerest prospects . 
Good old Cullingworth has turned out a trump , as I always knew he would . 
But , as usual , I am beginning at the wrong end , so here goes to give you an idea of what has been happening . 
I told you in my last about my lunacy adventure and my ignominious return from Lochtully Castle . 
When I had settled for the flannel vests which my mother had ordered so lavishly I had only five pounds left out of my pay . 
Well , it was something just to feel that I HAD earned money . 
It gave me an assurance that I might again . 
I had not been at home more than a few days when my father called me into the study after breakfast one morning and spoke very seriously as to our financial position . 
He began the interview by unbuttoning his waistcoat and asking me to listen at his fifth intercostal space , two inches from the left sternal line . 
I did so , and was shocked to hear a well marked mitral regurgitant murmur . 
It is of old standing , said he , but of late I have had a puffiness about the ankles and some renal symptoms which show me that it is beginning to tell . 
I tried to express my grief and sympathy , but he cut me short with some asperity . 
, I must leave to your care your mother and the children . 
My practice is so entirely a personal one that I cannot hope to be able to hand over to you enough to afford a living . 
I thought of Cullingworth's advice about going where you are least known . 
I think , said I , that , my chances would be better away from here . 
Then you must lose no time in establishing yourself , said he . 
Your position would be one of great responsibility if anything were to happen to me just now . 
It wasn't a time to argue , so I said nothing . 
My father took a copy of the Lancet out of his desk , and turned up an advertisement which he had marked with a blue pencil . 
Read this ! said he . 
I've got it before me as I write . 
It runs thus Qualified Assistant . 
Wanted at once in a large country and colliery practice . 
Thorough knowledge of obstetrics and dispensing indispensable . 
Apply Dr , Horton Merton on the Moors , Yorkshire . 
There might be an opening there , said he . 
I know Horton , and I am convinced that I can get you the appointment . 
It would at least give you the opportunity of looking round and seeing whether there was any vacancy there . 
How do you think it would suit you ? Of course I could only answer that I was willing to turn my hand to anything . 
I had enough to make a man serious before , when I had to face the world without money or interest . 
But now to think of the mother and my sisters and little Paul all leaning upon me when I cannot stand myself it is a nightmare . 
Perhaps my father may hold his own for years . 
Well , it was all fixed up and down I came to Yorkshire . 
I wasn't in the best of spirits when I started , Bertie , but they went down and down as I neared my destination . 
How people can dwell in such places passes my comprehension . 
Cinder strewn paths , black as though stained by the weary miners who toil along them , lead through the tarnished fields to the rows of smoke stained cottages . 
I'm Horton , said he and shook hands cordially . 
In that melancholy place the sight of him was like a fire on a frosty night . 
He was gaily dressed in the first place , check trousers , white waistcoat , a flower in his button hole . 
But the look of the man was very much to my heart . 
He was ruddy checked and black eyed , with a jolly stout figure and an honest genial smile . 
I felt as we clinched hands in the foggy grimy station that I had met a man and a friend . 
His carriage was waiting , and we drove out to his residence , The Myrtles , where I was speedily introduced both to his family and his practice . 
The former is small , and the latter enormous . 
The wife is dead but her mother , Mrs. White , keeps house for him and there are two dear little girls , about five and seven . 
Then there is an unqualified assistant , a young Irish student , who , with the three maids , the coachman , and the stable boy , make up the whole establishment . 
When I tell you that we give four horses quite as much as they can do , you will have an idea of the ground we cover . 
The house , a large square brick one , standing in its own grounds , is built on a small hill in an oasis of green fields . 
Beyond this , however , on every side the veil of smoke hangs over the country , with the mine pumps and the chimneys bristling out of it . 
It would be a dreadful place for an idle man but we are all so busy that we have hardly time to think whether there's a view or not . 
Day and night we are at work and yet the three months have been very pleasant ones to look back upon . 
I'll give you an idea of what a day's work is like . 
We breakfast about nine o'clock , and immediately afterwards the morning patients begin to drop in . 
Not much of a catch for the doctors , you would say , but it is astonishing what competition there is among them to get the appointment . 
You see it is a certainty for one thing , and it leads indirectly to other little extras . 
Besides , it amounts up surprisingly . 
I have no doubt that Horton has five or six hundred a year from his clubs alone . 
Well , then , by half past nine we are in full blast . 
By the club rules , patients are bound to find their own bottles and corks . 
They generally remember the bottle , but always forget the cork . 
Ye must pay a pinny or ilse put your forefinger in , says McCarthy . 
They have an idea that all the strength of the medicine goes if the bottle is open , so they trot off with their fingers stuck in the necks . 
They have the most singular notions about medicines . 
It's that strong that a spoon will stand oop in't ! is one man's description . 
Above all , they love to have two bottles , one with a solution of citric acid , and the other with carbonate of soda . 
When the mixture begins to fizz , they realise that there is indeed a science of medicine . 
This sort of work , with vaccinations , bandagings , and minor surgery , takes us to nearly eleven o'clock , when we assemble in Horton's room to make out the list . 
All the names of patients under treatment are pinned upon a big board . 
We sit round with note books open , and distribute those who must be seen between us . 
By the time this is done and the horses in , it is half past eleven . 
Well , we all work back again by two o'clock , when we find dinner waiting for us . 
We may or may not have finished our rounds . 
If not away we go again . 
If we have , Horton dictates his prescriptions , and strides off to bed with his black clay pipe in his mouth . 
When he has departed for his nap , McCarthy and I get to work on the medicine . 
There are , perhaps , fifty bottles to put up , with pills , ointment , etc . 
It is quite half past four before we have them all laid out on the shelf addressed to the respective invalids . 
Then we have an hour or so of quiet , when we smoke or read , or box with the coachman in the harness room . 
After tea the evening's work commences . 
From six to nine people are coming in for their medicine , or fresh patients wishing advice . 
Hard work , as you see but Horton is such a good chap , and works so hard himself , that one does not mind what one does . 
Yes , Horton is a real right down good fellow . 
His heart is broad and kind and generous . 
There is nothing petty in the man . 
He loves to see those around him happy and the sight of his sturdy figure and jolly red face goes far to make them so . 
Nature meant him to be a healer for he brightens up a sick room as he did the Merton station when first I set eyes upon him . 
Don't imagine from my description that he is in any way soft , however . 
There is no one on whom one could be less likely to impose . 
He has a temper which is easily aflame and as easily appeased . 
The daybook is banged , the bottles rattled , the counter thumped , and then he is off again with five doors slamming behind him . 
We can trace his progress when the black mood is on him by those dwindling slams . 
Perhaps it is that McCarthy has labelled the cough mixture as the eye wash , or sent an empty pillbox with an exhortation to take one every four hours . 
In any case the cyclone comes and goes , and by the next meal all is peace once more . 
I said that the patients were very homely . 
Any one who is over starched might well come here to be unstiffened . 
I confess that I did not quite fall in with it at once . 
But soon one falls into the humour of it . 
I like the grip of their greasy and blackened hands . 
retained their old manners and even their old dress . 
After all our efforts for silence it was exasperating . 
I rushed to the door to find a seedy looking person just raising his hand to commence a fresh bombardment . 
What on earth's the matter ? I asked , only I may have been a little more emphatic . 
Pain in the jaw , said he . 
You needn't make such a noise , said I other people are ill besides you . 
If I pay my money , young man , I'll make such noise as I like . 
And actually in cold blood he commenced a fresh assault upon the door . 
He would have gone on with his devil's tattoo all morning if I had not led him down the path and seen him off the premises . 
An hour afterwards Horton whirled into the surgery , with a trail of banged doors behind him . 
What's this about Mr. Usher , Munro ? he asked . 
He says that you were violent towards him . 
There was a club patient here who kept on banging the knocker , said I I was afraid that he would disturb Mrs. White , and so I made him stop . 
Horton's eyes began to twinkle . 
My boy , said he , that club patient , as you call him , is the richest man in Merton , and worth a hundred a year to me . 
I have no doubt that he appeased him by some tale of my disgrace and degradation but I have not heard anything of the matter since . 
It has been good for me to be here , Bertie . 
It has brought me in close contact with the working classes , and made me realise what fine people they are . 
Because one drunkard goes home howling on a Saturday night , we are too apt to overlook the ninety nine decent folk by their own firesides . 
I shall not make that mistake any more . 
The kindliness of the poor to the poor makes a man sick of himself . 
And their sweet patience ! Depend upon it , if ever there is a popular rising , the wrongs which lead to it must be monstrous and indefensible . 
And then the wisdom of the poor ! It is amusing to read the glib newspaper man writing about the ignorance of the masses . 
It's an axiom , I think , that to heighten a nation's wisdom you must lower its franchise . 
But don't let us strain truth even for such an object as that . 
No let me be frank , and say that I can't make cruelty fit into my scheme . 
It seems to me that the study of life by the physician vindicates the moral principles of right and wrong . 
But when you look closely it is a question whether that which is a wrong to the present community may not prove to have been a right to the interests of posterity . 
Our own distinction of right and wrong is founded too much upon the immediate convenience of the community , and does not inquire sufficiently deeply into the ultimate effect . 
I have my own views about Nature's methods , though I feel that it is rather like a beetle giving his opinions upon the milky way . 
It seems to me , then , that Nature , still working on the lines of evolution , strengthens the race in two ways . 
This is accomplished by drink and immorality . 
These are really two of the most important forces which work for the ultimate perfection of the race . 
I picture them as two great invisible hands hovering over the garden of life and plucking up the weeds . 
Looked at in one's own day , one can only see that they produce degradation and misery . 
Struma , tubercle , nervous disease , have all lent a hand towards the pruning off of that rotten branch , and the average of the race is thereby improved . 
Don't misunderstand me , and quote me as saying that it is a good thing for a nation that it should have many drunkards . 
What I say is , that if a nation has many morally weak people , then it is good that there should be a means for checking those weaker strains . 
Nature has her devices , and drink is among them . 
When there are no more drunkards and reprobates , it means that the race is so advanced that it no longer needs such rough treatment . 
Then the all wise Engineer will speed us along in some other fashion . 
I've been thinking a good deal lately about this question of the uses of evil , and of how powerful a tool it is in the hands of the Creator . 
Last night the whole thing crystallised out quite suddenly into a small set of verses . 
Please jump them if they bore you . 
God's own best will bide the test , And God's own worst will fall But , best or worst or last or first , He ordereth it all . 
And right and ill are tools of skill Held in His either hand . 
The harlot and the anchorite , The martyr and the rake , Deftly He fashions each aright , Its vital part to take . 
Wisdom He makes to guide the sap Where the high blossoms be And Lust to kill the weaker branch , And Drink to trim the tree . 
And Holiness that so the bole Be solid at the core And Plague and Fever , that the whole Be changing evermore . 
He strews the microbes in the lung , The blood clot in the brain With test and test He picks the best , Then tests them once again . 
He tests the body and the mind , He rings them o'er and o'er And if they crack , He throws them back , And fashions them once more . 
He chokes the infant throat with slime , He sets the ferment free He builds the tiny tube of lime That blocks the artery . 
He lets the youthful dreamer store Great projects in his brain , Until he drops the fungus spore That smears them out again . 
He stores the milk that feeds the babe , He dulls the tortured nerve He gives a hundred joys of sense Where few or none might serve . 
And still he trains the branch of good Where the high blossoms be , And wieldeth still the shears of ill To prune and prune His tree . 
So read I this and as I try To write it clear again , I feel a second finger lie Above mine on the pen . 
Dim are these peering eyes of mine , And dark what I have seen . 
But be I wrong , the wrong is Thine , Else had it never been . 
I am quite ashamed of having been so didactic . 
But it is fine to think that sin may have an object and work towards good . 
My father says that I seem to look upon the universe as if it were my property , and can't be happy until I know that all is right with it . 
Well , it does send a glow through me when I seem to catch a glimpse of the light behind the clouds . 
And now for my big bit of news which is going to change my whole life . 
Whom do you think I had a letter from last Tuesday week ? From Cullingworth , no less . 
It had no beginning , no end , was addressed all wrong , and written with a very thick quill pen upon the back of a prescription . 
How it ever reached me is a wonder . 
This is what he had to say Started here in Bradfield last June . 
My example must revolutionise medical practice . 
Have invention which is worth millions . 
Unless our Admiralty take it up shall make Brazil the leading naval power . 
Come down by next train on receiving this . 
Have plenty for you to do . 
That was the whole of this extraordinary letter it had no name to it , which was certainly reasonable enough , since no one else could have written it . 
Knowing Cullingworth as well as I did , I took it with reservations and deductions . 
How could he have made so rapid and complete a success in a town in which he must have been a complete stranger ? It was incredible . 
And yet there must be some truth in it , or he would not invite me to come down and test it . 
It is only a few pounds up to date , but in a year or so it might mount to something . 
I wrote to Cullingworth , therefore , thanking him for having remembered me , and explaining how matters stood . 
I had had great difficulty in finding an opening , I said , and now that I had one I was loth to give it up save for a permanency . 
Ten days passed , during which Cullingworth was silent . 
Then came a huge telegram . 
Why not call me a liar at once ? I tell you that I have seen thirty thousand patients in the last year . 
My actual takings have been over four thousand pounds . 
All patients come to me . 
Would not cross the street to see Queen Victoria . 
You can have all visiting , all surgery , all midwifery . 
Make what you like of it . 
Will guarantee three hundred pounds the first year . 
Well , this began to look more like business especially that last sentence . 
I took it to Horton , and asked his advice . 
His opinion was that I had nothing to lose and everything to gain . 
So it ended by my wiring back accepting the partnership if it is a partnership and to morrow morning I am off to Bradfield with great hopes and a small portmanteau . 
I am looking forward immensely to seeing him again , and I trust we won't have any rows . 
My foot is upon the threshold of fortune . 
THE PARADE , BRADFIELD , th March , . 
It is only two days since I wrote to you , my dear old chap , and yet I find myself loaded to the muzzle and at full cock again . 
I have come to Bradfield . 
I have seen old Cullingworth once more , and I have found that all he has told me is true . 
Yes incredible as it sounded , this wonderful fellow seems to have actually built up a great practice in little more than a year . 
He really is , with all his eccentricities , a very remarkable man , Bertie . 
He doesn't seem to have a chance of showing his true powers in this matured civilisation . 
The law and custom hamper him . 
He is the sort of fellow who would come right to the front in a French Revolution . 
Yes Cullingworth is fit to fight for a higher stake than a medical practice , and on a bigger stage than an English provincial town . 
When I read of Aaron Burr in your history I always picture him as a man like C. I had the kindest of leave takings from Horton . 
If he had been my brother he could not have been more affectionate . 
I could not have thought that I should grow so fond of a man in so short a time . 
He takes the keenest interest in my venture , and I am to write him a full account . 
He gave me as we parted a black old meerschaum which he had coloured himself the last possible pledge of affection from a smoker . 
It was pleasant for me to feel that if all went wrong at Bradfield , I had a little harbour at Merton for which I could make . 
That telegram of Cullingworth's in which , as you may remember , he guaranteed me three hundred pounds in the first year , gave me hopes of a much more rapid career . 
You will agree with me , I am sure , that I did wisely to go to him . 
I had an adventure upon the way to Bradfield . 
The carriage in which I was travelling contained a party of three , at whom I took the most casual of glances before settling down to the daily paper . 
There was an elderly lady , with a bright rosy face , gold spectacles , and a dash of red velvet in her bonnet . 
We may have travelled an hour or more without my paying any attention to this little family party , save that I could not help hearing some talk between the two ladies . 
The younger , who was addressed as Winnie , had , as I noticed , a very sweet and soothing voice . 
She called the elder mother , which showed that I was right as to the relationship . 
I was sitting , then , still reading my paper , when I was surprised to get a kick on the shins from the young fellow opposite . 
I moved my legs , thinking that it was an accident , but an instant afterwards I received another and a harder one . 
I dropped my paper with a growl , but the moment that I glanced at him I saw how the matter stood . 
I sprang upon him , tore open his collar , unbuttoned his waistcoat , and pulled his head down upon the seat . 
Crash went one of his heels through the carriage window , but I contrived to sit upon his knees while I kept hold of his two wrists . 
Don't be alarmed ! I cried it's epilepsy , and will soon pass ! Glancing up , I saw that the little girl was sitting very pale and quiet in the corner . 
The mother had pulled a bottle out of her bag and was quite cool and helpful . 
He often has them , said she this is bromide . 
He is coming out , I answered you look after Winnie . 
The son had opened his eyes and had ceased to struggle . 
I must really beg your pardon , said I , as I helped him up again . 
I had not the advantage of knowing your other name , and I was in such a hurry that I had no time to think what I was saying . 
They laughed again in the most good humoured way , and , as soon as the young fellow had recovered , we all joined in quite a confidential conversation . 
It is wonderful how the intrusion of any of the realities of life brushes away the cobwebs of etiquette . 
In half an hour we knew all about each other , or at any rate I knew all about them . 
Mrs. La Force was the mother's name , a widow with these two children . 
They had given up housekeeping , and found it more pleasant to live in apartments , travelling from one watering place to another . 
Their one trouble was the nervous weakness of the son Fred . 
They were now on their way to Birchespool , where they hoped that he might get some good from the bracing air . 
I was able to recommend vegetarianism , which I have found to act like a charm in such cases . 
We had quite a spirited conversation , and I think that we were sorry on both sides when we came to the junction where they had to change . 
Mrs. La Force gave me her card , and I promised to call if ever I should be in Birchespool . 
However , all this must be stupid enough to you . 
You know my little ways by this time , and you don't expect me to keep on the main line of my story . 
However , I am back on the rails now , and I shall try to remain there . 
Well , it was nearly six o'clock , and evening was just creeping in when we drew up in Bradfield Station . 
, and his great teeth all gleaming , like a good natured blood hound . 
He roared with delight when he saw me , wrung my hand , and slapped me enthusiastically upon the shoulder . 
My dear chap ! said he . 
We'll clear this town out . 
I tell you , Munro , we won't leave a doctor in it . 
It's all they can do now to get butter to their bread and when we get to work together they'll have to eat it dry . 
Man , we only have to gather them in . 
I stand and take the money until my arm aches . 
But how is it ? I asked , as we pushed our way through the crowd . 
Are there so few other doctors ? Few ! he roared . 
By Crums , the streets are blocked with them . 
You couldn't fall out of a window in this town without killing a doctor . 
But of all the well , there , you'll see them for yourself . 
You walked to my house at Avonmouth , Munro . 
I don't let my friends walk to my house at Bradfield eh , what ? A well appointed carriage with two fine black horses was drawn up at the station entrance . 
The smart coachman touched his hat as Cullingworth opened the door . 
Which of the houses , sir ? he asked . 
Cullingworth's eyes shot round to me to see what I thought of such a query . 
Between ourselves I have not the slightest doubt that he had instructed the man to ask it . 
He always had a fine eye for effect , but he usually erred by underrating the intelligence of those around him . 
Ah ! said he , rubbing his chin like a man in doubt . 
Well , I daresay dinner will be nearly ready . 
Drive to the town residential . 
Good gracious , Cullingworth ! said I as we started . 
How many houses do you inhabit ? It sounds as if you had bought the town . 
Well , well , said he , laughing , we are driving to the house where I usually live . 
It suits us very well , though I have not been able to get all the rooms furnished yet . 
Then I have a little farm of a few hundred acres just outside the city . 
We get our butter and things from the farm . 
Then , of course , I have my house of business in the heart of the city . 
Consulting and waiting room , I suppose ? He looked at me with a sort of half vexed , half amused expression . 
You cannot rise to a situation , Munro , said he . 
I never met a fellow with such a stodgy imagination . 
I'd trust you to describe a thing when you have seen it , but never to build up an idea of it beforehand . 
What's the trouble now ? I asked . 
Well , I have written to you about my practice , and I've wired to you about it , and here you sit asking me if I work it in two rooms . 
I'll have to hire the market square before I've finished , and then I won't have space to wag my elbows . 
The folk come in from the county fifty miles off , and eat bread and treacle on the doorstep , so as to be first in when the housekeeper comes down . 
The medical officer of health made an official complaint of the over crowding of my waiting rooms . 
They wait in the stables , and sit along the racks and under the horses' bellies . 
I'll turn some of 'em on to you , my boy , and then you'll know a little more about it . 
I was thinking to myself that I must keep my head cool , and have a look at everything with my own eyes , when the carriage pulled up and we got out . 
This is my little place , said Cullingworth . 
It was the corner house of a line of fine buildings , and looked to me much more like a good sized hotel than a private mansion . 
It had a broad sweep of steps leading to the door , and towered away up to five or six stories , with pinnacles and a flagstaff on the top . 
A smart maid opened the door and a moment later I was shaking hands with Mrs. Cullingworth , who was all kindliness and cordiality . 
She has , I think , forgotten the little Avonmouth business , when her husband and I fell out . 
The inside of the house was even huger than I had thought from the look of the exterior . 
There were over thirty bedrooms , Cullingworth informed me , as he helped me to carry my portmanteau upstairs . 
The hall and first stair were most excellently furnished and carpetted , but it all run to nothing at the landing . 
My own bedroom had a little iron bed , and a small basin standing on a packing case . 
Cullingworth took a hammer from the mantelpiece , and began to knock in nails behind the door . 
These will do to hang your clothes on , said he you don't mind roughing it a little until we get things in order ? Not in the least . 
No sense in that , Munro ! Eh , what ! I'm going to furnish this house as no house has ever been furnished . 
By Crums ! I'll bring the folk from a hundred miles round just to have leave to look at it . 
But I must do it room by room . 
Come down with me and look at the dining room . 
You must be hungry after your journey . 
It really was furnished in a marvellous way nothing flash , and everything magnificent . 
The carpet was so rich that my feet seemed to sink into it as into deep moss . 
The soup was on the table , and Mrs. Cullingworth sitting down , but he kept hauling me round to look at something else . 
Go on , Hetty , he cried over his shoulder . 
I just want to show Munro this . 
Now , these plain dining room chairs , what d'you think they cost each ? Eh , what ? Five pounds , said I at a venture . 
Exactly ! he cried , in great delight thirty pounds for the six . 
You hear , Hetty ! Munro guessed the price first shot . 
Now , my boy , what for the pair of curtains ? They were a magnificent pair of stamped crimson velvet , with a two foot gilt cornice above them . 
I thought that I had better not imperil my newly gained reputation by guessing . 
Eighty pounds ! he roared , slapping them with the back of his hand . 
Eighty pounds , Munro ! What d'ye think of that ? Everything that I have in this house is going to be of the best . 
Why , look at this waiting maid ! Did you ever see a neater one ? He swung the girl , towards me by the arm . 
Don't be silly , Jimmy , said Mrs. Cullingworth mildly , while he roared with laughter , with all his fangs flashing under his bristling moustache . 
The girl edged closer to her mistress , looking half frightened and half angry . 
All right , Mary , no harm ! he cried . 
Sit down , Munro , old chap . 
Get a bottle of champagne , Mary , and we'll drink to more luck . 
Well , we had a very pleasant little dinner . 
It is never slow if Cullingworth is about . 
He is one of those men who make a kind of magnetic atmosphere , so that you feel exhilarated and stimulated in their presence . 
His mind is so nimble and his thoughts so extravagant , that your own break away from their usual grooves , and surprise you by their activity . 
You feel pleased at your own inventiveness and originality , when you are really like the wren when it took a lift on the eagle's shoulder . 
Old Peterson , you remember , used to have a similar effect upon you in the Linlithgow days . 
In the middle of dinner he plunged off , and came back with a round bag about the size of a pomegranate in his hand . 
What d'ye think this is , Munro ? Eh ? I have no idea . 
Eh , Hetty ? He undid a string , and in an instant a pile of gold and silver rattled down upon the cloth , the coins whirling and clinking among the dishes . 
One rolled off the table and was retrieved by the maid from some distant corner . 
What is it , Mary ? A half sovereign ? Put it in your pocket . 
What did the lot come to , Hetty ? Thirty one pound eight . 
You see , Munro ! One day's work . 
He plunged his hand into his trouser pocket and brought out a pile of sovereigns , which he balanced in his palm . 
Look at that , laddie . 
Rather different from my Avonmouth form , eh ? What ? It will be good news for them , I suggested . 
He was scowling at me in an instant with all his old ferocity . 
You cannot imagine a more savage looking creature than Cullingworth is when his temper goes wrong . 
He gets a perfectly fiendish expression in his light blue eyes , and all his hair bristles up like a striking cobra . 
He isn't a beauty at his best , but at his worst he's really phenomenal . 
At the first danger signal his wife had ordered the maid from the room . 
What rot you do talk , Munro ! he cried . 
I should hope not , he cried . 
A tradesman stands to win or to lose . 
He allows a margin for bad debts . 
I would have paid it if I could . 
I couldn't , and so I wiped the slate clean . 
No one in his senses would dream of spending all the money that I make in Bradfield upon the tradesmen of Avonmouth . 
Suppose they come down upon you ? Well , we'll see about that when they do . 
Meanwhile I am paying ready money for every mortal thing that comes up the door steps . 
There's nearly four hundred pounds under this one ceiling . 
There came a tap at the door , and in walked a boy in buttons . 
If you please , sir , Mr. Duncan wishes to see you . 
Give my compliments to Mr. Duncan , and tell him he may go to the devil ! My dear Jimmy ! cried Mrs. Cullingworth . 
Tell him I am at dinner and if all the kings in Europe were waiting in the hall with their crowns in their hands I wouldn't cross that door mat to see them . 
The boy vanished , but was back in an instant . 
Please , sir , he won't go . 
Won't go ! What d'you mean ? Cullingworth sat with his mouth open and his knife and fork sticking up . 
What d'you mean , you brat ? What are you boggling about ? It's his bill , sir , said the frightened boy . 
Cullingworth's face grew dusky , and the veins began to swell on his forehead . 
His bill , eh ! Look here ! He took his watch out and laid it on the table . 
It's two minutes to eight . 
At eight I'm coming out , and if I find him there I'll strew the street with him . 
Tell him I'll shred him over the parish . 
He has two minutes to save his life in , and one of them is nearly gone . 
The boy bolted from the room , and in an instant afterwards we heard the bang of the front door , with a clatter of steps down the stairs . 
Cullingworth lay back in his chair and roared until the tears shone on his eyelashes , while his wife quivered all over with sympathetic merriment . 
I'll drive him mad , Cullingworth sobbed at last . 
He's a nervous , chicken livered kind of man and when I look at him he turns the colour of putty . 
If I pass his shop I usually just drop in and stand and look at him . 
I never speak , but just look . 
Sometimes the shop is full of people but it is just the same . 
Who is he , then ? I asked . 
I was saying that I paid my tradesmen as I go , but he is the only exception . 
He has done me once or twice , you see and so I try to take it out of him . 
By the way , you might send him down twenty pounds to morrow , Hetty . 
It's time for an instalment . 
What a gossip you will think me , Bertie ? But when I begin , my memory brings everything back so clearly , and I write on and on almost unconsciously . 
I know that he has always interested you , and that he does so more now than ever since our fates have drawn us together again . 
At one end was an electric battery and a big magnet . 
At the other , a packing case with several pistols and a litter of cartridges upon it . 
A rook rifle was leaning tip against it , and looking round I saw that the walls were all pocked with bullet marks . 
What's this , then ? I asked , rolling my eyes round . 
Hetty , what's this ? he asked , with his pipe in his hand and his head cocked sideways . 
Naval supremacy and the command of the seas , said she , like a child repeating a lesson . 
That's it he shouted , stabbing at me with the amber . 
Naval supremacy and command of the seas . 
It's all here right under your nose . 
I'd sweep the seas until there wasn't a match box floating on them . 
Or I could make them over to a limited company , and join the board after allotment . 
I hold the salt water in the cup of this hand , every drop of it . 
His wife put her hands on his shoulder with admiration in her eyes . 
I turned to knock out my pipe , and grinned over the grate . 
Oh , you may grin , said he . 
You'll grin a little wider when you see the dividends coming in . 
What's the value of that magnet ? A pound ? A million pounds . 
And dirt cheap to the nation that buys it . 
I shall let it go at that , though I could make ten times as much if I held on . 
It's not every day , Munro , that a man comes into his office with the Atlantic under one arm and the Pacific under the other . 
Eh , what ? I knew it would make him savage , but I lay back in my chair and laughed until I was tired . 
His wife looked at me reproachfully but he , after a moment of blackness , burst out laughing also , stamping up and down the room and waving his arms . 
Of course it seems absurd to you , he cried . 
Well , I daresay it would to me if any other fellow had worked it out . 
But you may take my word for it that it's all right . 
Hetty here will answer for it . 
Won't you , Hetty ? It's splendid , my dear . 
Have you grasped that ? Yes . 
You are also aware , I presume , that modern projectiles are either made of or tipped with steel . 
It may possibly have come to your ears that magnets attract steel . 
Permit me now to show you a small experiment . 
He bent over his apparatus , and I suddenly heard the snapping of electricity . 
Into the breech I place a Boxer cartridge , specialty provided for experimental purposes with a steel bullet . 
I aim point blank at the dab of red sealing wax upon the wall , which is four inches above the magnet . 
I am an absolutely dead shot . 
You will now advance , and satisfy yourself that the bullet is flattened upon the end of the magnet , after which you will apologise to me for that grin . 
I looked , and it certainly was as he had said . 
I'll tell you what I would do , he cried . 
I am prepared to put that magnet in Hetty's bonnet , and to let you fire six shots straight at her face . 
Of course , you see that the whole thing is to scale . 
My warship of the future carries at her prow and stern a magnet which shall be as much larger than that as the big shell will be larger than this tiny bullet . 
Or I might have a separate raft , possibly , to carry my apparatus . 
My ship goes into action . 
What happens then , Munro ? Eh , what ! Every shot fired at her goes smack on to the magnet . 
There's a reservoir below into which they drop when the electric circuit is broken . 
After every action they are sold by auction for old metal , and the result divided as prize money among the crew . 
But think of it , man ! I tell you it is an absolute impossibility for a shot to strike any ship which is provided with my apparatus . 
And then look at the cheapness . 
Any ship that floats becomes invulnerable with one of these . 
The war ship of the future will cost anything from seven pound ten . 
You're grinning again but if you give me a magnet and a Brixton trawler with a seven pounder gun I'll show sport to the finest battle ship afloat . 
Well , there must be some flaw about this , I suggested . 
If your magnet is so strong as all that , you would have your own broadside boomeranging back upon you . 
Besides , by breaking the circuit I can take off the influence when I am firing my own broadside . 
Then I connect , and instantly become invulnerable . 
And your nails and screws ? The warship of the future will be bolted together by wood . 
Well , he would talk of nothing else the whole evening but of this wonderful invention of his . 
In a week he will have tossed it aside in all probability , and be immersed in some plan for reuniting the Jews and settling them in Madagascar . 
Come what may , I am delighted that I came , for things promise to be interesting . 
Regard this not as the end of a letter , but of a paragraph . 
You shall have the conclusion to morrow , or on Thursday at the latest . 
Goodbye , and my remembrance to Lawrence if you see him . 
How's your friend from Yale ? VII . 
THE PARADE , BRADFIELD , th March , . 
I have written to Horton also , and of course to my mother but I don't go into detail with them , as I have got into the way of doing with you . 
You keep on assuring me that you like it so on your own head be it if you find my experiences gradually developing into a weariness . 
When I woke in the morning , and looked round at the bare walls and the basin on the packing case , I hardly knew where I was . 
He was in great spirits , and , squatting on the bed , he held forth about his plans while I dressed . 
I tell you one of the first things I mean to do , Munro , said he . 
I mean to have a paper of my own . 
We'll start a weekly paper here , you and I , and we'll make them sit up all round . 
We'll have an organ of our own , just like every French politician . 
If any one crosses us , we'll make them wish they had never been born . 
Don't you think we could ? What politics ? I asked . 
Oh , curse the politics ! Red pepper well rubbed in , that's my idea of a paper . 
Chaff the Mayor and the Council until they call a meeting and hang themselves . 
I'd do the snappy paragraphs , and you would do the fiction and poetry . 
I thought about it during the night , and Hetty has written to Murdoch's to get an estimate for the printing . 
We might get our first number out this day week . 
My dear chap ! I gasped . 
I want you to start a novel this morning . 
You won't get many patients at first , and you'll have lots of time . 
But I never wrote a line in my life . 
A properly balanced man can do anything he sets his hand to . 
He's got every possible quality inside him , and all he wants is the will to develop it . 
Could you write a novel yourself ? I asked . 
Such a novel , Munro , that when they'd read the first chapter the folk would just sit groaning until the second came out . 
They'd wait in rows outside my door in the hope of hearing what was coming next . 
I daresay you've quite come to the conclusion by this time that Cullingworth is simply an interesting pathological study a man in the first stage of lunacy or general paralysis . 
You might not be so sure about it if you were in close contact with him . 
He justifies his wildest flights by what he does . 
Now we see that he has done it . 
He has such huge energy at the back of his fertility of invention . 
His conversation when he does not fly off at a tangent is full of pith and idea . 
The greatest monument ever erected to Napoleon Buonaparte was the British National debt , said he yesterday . 
Again , We must never forget that the principal export of Great Britain to the United States IS the United States . 
Again , speaking of Christianity , What is intellectually unsound cannot be morally sound . 
He shoots off a whole column of aphorisms in a single evening . 
I should like to have a man with a note book always beside him to gather up his waste . 
No you must not let me give you a false impression of the man's capacity . 
On the other hand , it would be dishonest to deny that I think him thoroughly unscrupulous , and full of very sinister traits . 
I am much mistaken , however , if he has not fine strata in his nature . 
He is capable of rising to heights as well as of sinking to depths . 
Well , when we had breakfasted we got into the carriage and drove off to the place of business . 
I suppose you are surprised at Hetty coming with us , said Cullingworth , slapping me on the knee . 
Hetty , Munro is wondering what the devil you are here for , only he is too polite to ask . 
In fact , it HAD struck me as rather strange that she should , as a matter of course , accompany us to business . 
You'll see when we get there , he cried chuckling . 
We run this affair on lines of our own . 
It was not very far , and we soon found ourselves outside a square whitewashed building , which had a huge Dr . 
Cullingworth on a great brass plate at the side of the door . 
Underneath was printed May be consulted gratis from ten to four . 
The door was open , and I caught a glimpse of a crowd of people waiting in the hall . 
How many here ? asked Cullingworth of the page boy . 
A hundred and forty , sir . 
All the waiting rooms full ? Yes , sir . 
Courtyard full ? Yes , sir . 
Stable full ? Yes , sir . 
Coach house full ? There's still room in the coach house , sir . 
Ah , I'm sorry we haven't got a crowded day for you , Munro , said he . 
Of course , we can't command these things , and must take them as they come . 
Now then , now then , make a gangway , can't you ? this to his patients . 
Come here and see the waiting room . 
I tried , sir , but there's a screw through the sash , cried one fellow . 
Ah , my boy , you'll never get on in the world if you can't open a window without raising a sash , said Cullingworth , slapping him on the shoulder . 
He took the man's umbrella and stuck it through two of the panes of glass . 
That's the way ! he said . 
Boy , see that the screw is taken out . 
Now then , Munro , come along , and we'll get to work . 
We went up a wooden stair , uncarpeted , leaving every room beneath us , as far as I could see , crowded with patients . 
At the top was a bare passage , which had two rooms opposite to each other at one end , and a single one at the other . 
This is my consulting room , said he , leading the way into one of these . 
It was a good sized square chamber , perfectly empty save for two plain wooden chairs and an unpainted table with two books and a stethoscope upon it . 
It doesn't look like four or five thousand a year , does it ? Now , there is an exactly similar one opposite which you can have for yourself . 
I'll send across any surgical cases which may turn up . 
To day , however , I think you had better stay with me , and see how I work things . 
The most obvious is that you must never let them see that you want them . 
It should be pure condescension on your part seeing them at all and the more difficulties you throw in the way of it , the more they think of it . 
Break your patients in early , and keep them well to heel . 
Never make the fatal mistake of being polite to them . 
Many foolish young men fall into this habit , and are ruined in consequence . 
But don't they get offended ? I asked . 
I have a name for this sort of thing now , and they have come to expect it . 
But an offended patient I mean a thoroughly insulted one is the finest advertisement in the world . 
I quarrelled with one man about the state of his gall duct , and it ended by my throwing him down the stairs . 
What was the result ? He talked so much about it that the whole village from which he came , sick and well , trooped to see me . 
The little country practitioner who had been buttering them up for a quarter of a century found that he might as well put up his shutters . 
It's human nature , my boy , and you can't alter it . 
Eh , what ? You make yourself cheap and you become cheap . 
You put a high price on yourself and they rate you at that price . 
How would I work it ? I should let it be known that I only saw patients from midnight until two in the morning , and that bald headed people must pay double . 
That would set people talking , their curiosity would be stimulated , and in four months the street would be blocked all night . 
Eh , what ? laddie , you'd go yourself . 
I often come in of a morning and send them all about their business , tell them I'm going off to the country for a day . 
I turn away forty pounds , and it's worth four hundred as an advertisement ! But I understood from the plate that the consultations were gratis . 
So they are , but they have to pay for the medicine . 
And if a patient wishes to come out of turn he has to pay half a guinea for the privilege . 
There are generally about twenty every day who would rather pay that than wait several hours . 
But , mind you , Munro , don't you make any mistake about this ! All this would go for nothing if you had not something , slid behind I cure them . 
I take cases that others have despaired of , and I cure them right off . 
All the rest is only to bring them here . 
But once here I keep them on my merits . 
It would all be a flash in the pan but for that . 
Now , come along and see Hetty's department . 
We walked down the passage to the other room . 
It was elaborately fitted up as a dispensary , and there with a chic little apron Mrs. Cullingworth was busy making up pills . 
With her sleeves turned up and a litter of glasses and bottles all round her , she was laughing away like a little child among its toys . 
The best dispenser in the world ! cried Cullingworth , patting her on the shoulder . 
You see how I do it , Munro . 
I write on a label what the prescription is , and make a sign which shows how much is to be charged . 
The man comes along the passage and passes the label through the pigeon hole . 
Hetty makes it up , passes out the bottle , and takes the money . 
Now , come on and clear some of these folk out of the house . 
Cullingworth's antics are beyond belief . 
I laughed until I thought the wooden chair under me would have come to pieces . 
To some of his patients he neither said one word nor did he allow them to say one . 
One poor old lady he greeted with a perfect scream . 
You've been drinking too much tea ! he cried . 
Put your hand on the book , he thundered , and swear that for fourteen days you will drink nothing but cocoa . 
She swore with upturned eyes , and was instantly whirled off with her label in her hand , to the dispensary . 
Knock down a policeman , and come again when they let you out . 
Another patient complained of a sinking feeling . 
My dear , said he , take your medicine and if that does no good , swallow the cork , for there is nothing better when you are sinking . 
Well , with half an hour for lunch , this extraordinary business went on till a quarter to four in the afternoon . 
When the last patient had departed , Cullingworth led the way into the dispensary , where all the fees had been arranged upon the counter in the order of their value . 
There were seventeen half sovereigns , seventy three shillings , and forty six florins or thirty two pounds eight and sixpence in all . 
Cullingworth counted it up , and then mixing the gold and silver into one heap , he sat running his fingers through it and playing with it . 
Finally , he raked it into the canvas bag which I had seen the night before , and lashed the neck up with a boot lace . 
We walked home , and that walk struck me as the most extraordinary part of all that extraordinary day . 
Cullingworth paraded slowly through the principal streets with his canvas bag , full of money , outstretched at the full length of his arm . 
His wife and I walked on either side , like two acolytes supporting a priest , and so we made our way solemnly homewards the people stopping to see us pass . 
I always make a point of walking through the doctor's quarter , said Cullingworth . 
We are passing through it now . 
They all come to their windows and gnash their teeth and dance until I am out of sight . 
Why should you quarrel with them ? What is the matter with them ? I asked . 
Pooh ! what's the use of being mealy mouthed about it ? said he . 
I must say that I can see no sense in that . 
They are your brothers in the profession , with the same education and the same knowledge . 
Why should you take an offensive attitude towards them ? That's what I say , Dr . 
Munro , cried his wife . 
It is so very unpleasant to feel that one is surrounded by enemies on every side . 
Hetty's riled because their wives wouldn't call upon her , he cried . 
Look at that , my dear , jingling his bag . 
That is better than having a lot of brainless women drinking tea and cackling in our drawing room . 
I've had a big card printed , Munro , saying that we don't desire to increase the circle of our acquaintance . 
The maid has orders to show it to every suspicious person who calls . 
Why should you not make money at your practice , and yet remain on good terms with your professional brethren ? said I. You speak as if the two things were incompatible . 
What's the good of beating about the bush , laddie ? My methods are all unprofessional , and I break every law of medical etiquette as often as I can think of it . 
You know very well that the British Medical Association would hold up their hands in horror if it could see what you have seen to day . 
But why not conform to professional etiquette ? Because I know better . 
My boy , I'm a doctor's son , and I've seen too much of it . 
I was born inside the machine , and I've seen all the wires . 
All this etiquette is a dodge for keeping the business in the hands of the older men . 
It's to hold the young men back , and to stop the holes by which they might slip through to the front . 
I've heard my father say so a score of times . 
He had the largest practice in Scotland , and yet he was absolutely devoid of brains . 
He slipped into it through seniority and decorum . 
No pushing , but take your turn . 
At the same time , if they do what I tell them , I shall look upon them as a lot of infernal blockheads . 
Eh , Munro , what ? I could only say again that I thought he took a very low view of the profession , and that I disagreed with every word he said . 
Well , if you are too clean handed for the job you can clear out . 
We can't keep you here against your will . 
I said nothing but when we got back , I went upstairs and packed up my trunk , with every intention of going back to Yorkshire by the night train . 
He came up to my room , and finding what I was at , he burst into apologies which would have satisfied a more exacting man than I am . 
You shall do just exactly what you like , my dear chap . 
If you don't like my way , you may try some way of your own . 
That's fair enough , said I. But it's a little trying to a man's self respect if he is told to clear out every time there is a difference of opinion . 
Well , well , there was no harm meant , and it shan't occur again . 
I can't possibly say more than that so come along down and have a cup of tea . 
And so the matter blew over but I very much fear , Bertie , that this is the first row of a series . 
I have a presentiment that sooner or later my position here will become untenable . 
Still , I shall give it a fair trial as long as he will let me . 
Cullingworth is a fellow who likes to have nothing but inferiors and dependants round him . 
Now , I like to stand on my own legs , and think with my own mind . 
If he'll let me do this we'll get along very well but if I know the man he will claim submission , which is more than I am inclined to give . 
He has a right to my gratitude , which I freely admit . 
He has found an opening for me when I badly needed one and had no immediate prospects . 
We had an incident that evening which was so characteristic that I must tell you of it . 
Cullingworth has an air gun which fires little steel darts . 
With this he makes excellent practice at about twenty feet , the length of the back room . 
We were shooting at a mark after dinner , when he asked me whether I would hold a halfpenny between my finger and thumb , and allow him to shoot it out . 
A halfpenny not being forthcoming , he took a bronze medal out of his waistcoat pocket , and I held that tip as a mark . 
Kling ! went the air gun , and the medal rolled upon the floor . 
Plumb in the centre , said he . 
On the contrary , I answered , you never hit it at all ! Never hit it ! I must have hit it ! I am confident you didn't . 
Where's the dart , then ? Here , said I , holding up a bleeding forefinger , from which the tail end of the fluff with which the dart was winged was protruding . 
I never saw a man so abjectly sorry for anything in my life . 
He used language of self reproach which would have been extravagant if he had shot off one of my limbs . 
Mrs. Cullingworth had run for hot water , and presently with a tweezers we got the intruder out . 
, but if ever you are called upon to identify my body you may look for a star at the end of my right forefinger . 
my eyes happened to catch the medal which I had dropped , lying upon the carpet . 
I lifted it up and looked at it , eager to find some topic which would be more agreeable . 
Printed upon it was Presented to James Cullingworth for gallantry in saving life . 
Hullo , Cullingworth , said I. You never told me about this ! He was off in an instant in his most extravagant style . 
What ! the medal ? Haven't you got one ? I thought every one had . 
You prefer to be select , I suppose . 
It was a little boy . 
You've no idea the trouble I had to get him in . 
Get him out , you mean . 
My dear chap , you don't understand ! Any one could get a child out . 
It's getting one in that's the bother . 
One deserves a medal for it . 
Then there are the witnesses , four shillings a day I had to pay them , and a quart of beer in the evenings . 
You see you can't pick up a child and carry it to the edge of a pier and throw it in . 
You'd have all sorts of complications with the parents . 
You must be patient and wait until you get a legitimate chance . 
I caught a quinsy walking up and down Avonmouth pier before I saw my opportunity . 
He was rather a stolid fat boy , and he was sitting on the very edge , fishing . 
I got the sole of my foot on to the small of his back , and shot him an incredible distance . 
The boy came up to thank me next day , and said that he was quite uninjured save for a bruise on the back . 
His parents always send me a brace of fowls every Christmas . 
I was sitting with my finger in the hot water listening to this rigmarole . 
When he had finished he ran off to get his tobacco box , and we could hear the bellowing of his laughter dwindling up the stair . 
You believe far too much what James says , said she . 
You don't know him in the least , Mr. Munro . 
You don't look at a thing from his point of view , and you will never understand him until you do . 
Just glance at that , please , Dr . 
It was a newspaper cutting , which gave the true account of the incident . 
you can think how piquant he is in actual life . 
I must confess , however , that I can never shake off the feeling that I am living with some capricious creature who frequently growls and may possibly bite . 
Well , it won't be very long before I write again , and by that time I shall probably know whether I am likely to find any permanent billet here or not . 
I am so sorry to hear about Mrs. Swanborough's indisposition . 
You know that I take the deepest interest in everything that affects you . 
They tell me here that I am looking very fit , though I think they ought to spell it with an a . 
THE PARADE , BRADFIELD , th April , . 
I am writing this , my dear Bertie , at a little table which has been fitted up in the window of my bedroom . 
Every one in the house is asleep except myself and all the noise of the city is hushed . 
Yet my own brain is singularly active , and I feel that I am better employed in sitting up and writing to you , than in tossing about upon my bed . 
I am often accused of being sleepy in the daytime , but every now and then Nature gets level by making me abnormally wakeful at night . 
Are you conscious of the restful influence which the stars exert ? To me they are the most soothing things in Nature . 
I am proud to say that I don't know the name of one of them . 
The glamour and romance would pass away from them if they were all classified and ticketed in one's brain . 
But when a man is hot and flurried , and full of his own little ruffled dignities and infinitesimal misfortunes , then a star bath is the finest thing in the world . 
They are so big , and so serene and so lovely . 
They tell me that the interplanetary spaces are full of the debris of shattered asteroids so , perhaps , even among them there are such things as disease and death . 
But there's order in it , Bertie , there's order ! And where there is order there must be mind , and where there is mind there must be sense of Justice . 
I don't allow that there can be any doubt as to the existence of that central Mind , or as to the possession by it of certain attributes . 
The stars help me to realise these . 
It would be comic if it were not so tragic . 
This train of thought is the after swell from an argument with Cullingworth this evening . 
He holds that the human race is deteriorating mentally and morally . 
He calls out at the grossness which confounds the Creator with a young Jewish Philosopher . 
His own views of the Creator seem to me to be a more evident degeneration . 
He declares that looking round at Nature he can see nothing but ruthlessness and brutality . 
Either the Creator is not all powerful , or else He is not all good , says he . 
It was a difficult dilemma for a man who professes to stick to reason to get out of . 
Of course , if you plead faith , you can always slip out of anything . 
I was forced to get behind a corner of that buckler with which you have so often turned my own thrusts . 
I said that the dilemma arose from our taking it for granted that that which seemed evil really was EVIL . 
It lies with you to prove that it isn't , said he . 
But in all soberness , I really do think , Bertie , that very much which seems to be saddest in life might be very different if we could focus it properly . 
I tried to give you my views about this in the case of drink and immorality . 
But physically , I fancy that it applies more obviously than it does morally . 
All the physical evils of life seem to culminate in death and yet death , as I have seen it , has not been a painful or terrible process . 
And it is often those deaths which seem most terrible to the onlooker , which are least so to the sufferer . 
And yet , it is very doubtful whether the deceased , could his tongue be loosened , would remember anything at all about the matter . 
I remember how struck I was when first I saw the actual cautery applied in a case of spinal disease . 
The nerves are so completely and instantaneously destroyed , he explained , that they have no time to convey a painful impression . 
I am well convinced that if the newly born infant and the man who had just died could compare their experiences , the former would have proved to be the sufferer . 
It is not for nothing that the first thing the newcomer into this planet does is to open its toothless mouth and protest energetically against fate . 
Cullingworth has written a parable which makes a paragraph for our wonderful new weekly paper . 
The little cheese mites held debate , he says , as to who made the cheese . 
Some thought that they had no data to go upon , and some that it had come together by a solidification of vapour , or by the centrifugal attraction of atoms . 
A few surmised that the platter might have something to do with it but the wisest of them could not deduce the existence of a cow . 
We are at one , he and I , in thinking that the infinite is beyond our perception . 
We differ only in that he sees evil and I see good in the working of the universe . 
Ah , what a mystery it all is ! Let us be honest and humble and think kindly of each other . 
Well , now , I'll come back to something practical . 
It is nearly a month since I wrote to you last . 
The date is impressed upon my memory because it was the day after Cullingworth shot the air dart into my finger . 
The place festered and prevented my writing to any one for a week or two , but it is all right again now . 
I have ever so much of different sorts to tell you , but really when I come to think of it , it does not amount to very much after all . 
First of all , about the practice . 
I told you that I was to have a room immediately opposite to Cullingworth's , and that all the surgical cases were to be turned over to me . 
For a few days I had nothing to do , except to listen to him romping and scuffling with his patients , or making speeches to them from the top of the stairs . 
However , a great Dr . 
Stark Munro , Surgeon , has been affixed to the side of the door downstairs , opposite Cullingworth's plate and a proud man was I when first my eyes lit upon it . 
On the fourth day , however , in came a case . 
He little knew that he was the first that I had ever had all to myself in my life . 
Perhaps he would not have looked quite so cheerful if he had realised it . 
Poor chap , he had little enough to be cheery over either . 
He was an old soldier who had lost a good many teeth , but who had continued to find room between his nose and chin for a short black clay pipe . 
Lately there appeared a small sore on his nose which had spread , and become crusted . 
On feeling it I found it as hard as a streak of glue , with constant darting pains passing through it . 
Of course , there could be no question as to diagnosis . 
It was epitheliomatous cancer , caused by the irritation of the hot tobacco smoke . 
I sent him back to his village , and two days after I drove over in Cullingworth's dog cart , and removed the growth . 
I only got a sovereign for it . 
But it may be a nucleus for cases . 
to tell me that he has bought a box full of churchwardens . 
It was my first operation , and I daresay I was more nervous about it than my patient , but the result has given me confidence . 
I have fully made up my mind to let nothing pass me . 
Come what may , I am prepared to do it . 
Cases came dribbling in from day to day all very poor people , and able to pay very poor fees but still most welcome to me . 
one pound seventeen and sixpence . 
The second , I got two pounds exactly . 
The third , I had two pounds five , and now I find that this last week has brought in two pounds eighteen so I am moving in the right direction . 
Still , I am quite satisfied , and I have no doubt at all that his original estimate of three hundred pounds for the first year will be amply justified . 
It would be a pleasant thing to think that if anything were really to happen at home , I should be able to be of some use to them . 
If things go on as they have begun , I shall soon have my feet firmly planted . 
I was compelled , by the way , to forego an opening which a few months ago would have been the very summit of my ambition . 
, that immediately after I passed , I put my name down as a candidate for a surgeonship on the books of several of the big steamship lines . 
It was done as a forlorn hope , for a man has usually to wait several years before his turn comes round . 
Well , just a week after I started here , I got a telegram one night from Liverpool Join the Decia to morrow as surgeon , not later than eight in the evening . 
I had a bad quarter of an hour , I can tell you . 
I don't think I was ever so undecided about anything in my life . 
Cullingworth was dead against my going , and his influence carried the day . 
My dear chap , said he , you'd knock down the chief mate , and he'd spread you out with a handspike . 
You'd get tied by your thumbs to the rigging . 
You'd be fed on stinking water and putrid biscuits . 
I've been reading a novel about the merchant service , and I know . 
When I laughed at his ideas of modern sea going he tried another line . 
You're a bigger fool than I take you for if you go , said he . 
Why , what can it lead to ? All the money you earn goes to buy a blue coat , and daub it with lace . 
You think you're bound for Valparaiso , and you find yourself at the poor house . 
You've got a rare opening here , and everything ready to your hand . 
You'll never get such another again . 
And so it ended by my letting them have a wire to say that I could not come . 
I think after all I chose rightly . 
A ship's surgeon must remain a ship's surgeon , while here there is no horizon to my possibilities . 
As to old Cullingworth , he is booming along as merrily as ever . 
You say in your last , that what you cannot understand is how he got his hold of the public in so short a time . 
That is just the point which I have found it hard to get light upon . 
He told me that after his first coming he had not a patient for a month , and that he was so disheartened that he very nearly made a moonlight exodus . 
Some of his wonderful results got into the local press , though , after my Avonmouth experience , I should not like to guarantee that he did not himself convey them there . 
He showed me an almanac , which had a great circulation in the district . 
It had an entry sandwiched in this way Aug . 
Cullingworth of a case of dropsy in Bradfield , . 
It reads as if it were one of the landmarks of the latter half of the century . 
I asked him how on earth it got there but I could only learn that the woman was fifty six inches round the waist , and that he had treated her with elaterium . 
That leads me to another point . 
You ask me whether his cures are really remarkable , and , if so , what his system is . 
I answer unhesitatingly , that his cures are very remarkable , indeed , and that I look upon him as a sort of Napoleon of medicine . 
His view is that the pharmacopaeal doses are in nearly every instance much too low . 
Excessive timidity has cut down the dose until it has ceased to produce a real effect upon the disease . 
Medical men , according to his view , have been afraid of producing a poisonous effect with their drugs . 
With him , on the contrary , the whole art of medicine lies in judicious poisoning , and when the case is serious , his remedies are heroic . 
Where , in epilepsy , I should have given thirty grain doses of bromide or chloral every four hours , he would give two drachms every three . 
He is the most fearless fellow . 
I have seen him pour opium into a dysenteric patient until my hair bristled . 
But either his knowledge or his luck always brings him out right . 
Then there are other cures which depend , I think , upon his own personal magnetism . 
He is so robust and loud voiced and hearty that a weak nervous patient goes away from him recharged with vitality . 
If he chose to preserve crutches and sticks , as they do in the mediaeval churches , he might , I am sure , paper his consulting room with them . 
A favourite device of his with an impressionable patient is to name the exact hour of their cure . 
Now , keep your eye on the clock , and see if I am not right . 
Next day , as likely as not , her mother will be in , weeping tears of joy and another miracle has been added to Cullingworth's record . 
It may smell of quackery , but it is exceedingly useful to the patient . 
Still I must confess that there is nothing about Cullingworth which jars me so much as the low view which he takes of our profession . 
He will not acknowledge any philanthropic side to the question . 
A profession , in his view , is a means of earning a livelihood , and the doing good to our fellow mortals , is quite a secondary one . 
Why the devil should we do all the good , Munro ? he shouts . 
Take the case of a doctor who devotes himself to sanitary science . 
He flushes out drains , and keeps down infection . 
You call him a philanthropist ! Well , I call him a traitor . 
Do you suppose they do that by making the population healthy ? It's about time we had a mutiny among the general practitioners . 
Of course , I told him that his views were diabolical but , especially since that warning which I had from his wife , I discount everything that he says . 
He begins in earnest but as he goes on the humour of exaggeration gets hold of him , and he winds up with things which he would never uphold in cold blood . 
However , the fact remains that we differ widely in our views of professional life , and I fear that we may come to grief over the question . 
What do you think we have been doing lately ? Building a stable no less . 
So at it we went , he , I , the coachman , Mrs. Cullingworth , and the coachman's wife . 
We dug foundations , got bricks in by the cartload , made our own mortar , and I think that we shall end by making a very fair job of it . 
Cullingworth talks of our building a new house for ourselves but as we have three large ones already there does not seem to be any pressing need . 
Talking about horses , we had no end of a fuss here the other day . 
The man told us of a charger which one of the officers in the garrison was trying to get rid of . 
This excited Cullingworth , and he ordered the creature to be saddled and brought round . 
Then ensued one of the most lively ten minutes that I can remember . 
The beast justified his reputation but Cullingworth , although he was no horseman , stuck to him like a limpet . 
He kept his whip , however and whenever the brute eased down , Cullingworth lammed him once more with the bone handle . 
His idea , I suppose , was to break its spirit , but he had taken a larger contract than he could carry through . 
The animal bunched his four feet together , ducked down his head , arched his back like a yawning cat , and gave three convulsive springs into the air . 
Up he bounded with the blood streaming down his face , and running into our half finished stables he seized a hatchet , and with a bellow of rage rushed at the horse . 
ran off with his horse into the street . 
However , luckily for the dealer , he had got a good start , and Cullingworth was persuaded to come back and wash his face . 
We bound up his cut , and found him little the worse , except in his temper . 
But for me he would most certainly have paid seventy pounds for his insane outburst of rage against the animal . 
They visit nobody , and nobody visits them . 
My living with them brings the same taboo from my brother doctors upon my head , although I have never done anything unprofessional myself . 
What I should have done had she accepted me , I can't imagine for that was three years ago , and I have more ties and less prospect of marriage now than then . 
If you cut your own path , you must expect to find yourself alone upon it . 
Heigh ho ! it's nearly dawn , and I as wakeful as ever . 
It is chilly , and I have draped a blanket round me . 
I've heard that this is the favourite hour of the suicide , and I see that I've been tailing off in the direction of melancholy myself . 
Let me wind up on a lighter chord by quoting Cullingworth's latest article . 
He brings them all to me , and my table is already piled with them . 
Here is his latest , brought up to my room after he had undressed . 
Several examples of these metallic cylinders or tubings were on exhibition in the hall , and were passed round for inspection among the audience . 
Recent research appeared to have satisfactorily established the fact that the date of the final fall of London was somewhat later than that of the erection of the Egyptian Pyramids . 
This had been explained by the Patagonian school as being a universal system of lightning conductors . 
could not assent to this theory . 
No one who knew how addicted the ancient Britons were to the use of tobacco could doubt what this meant . 
After all , I daresay this explanation of the London gas pipes is not more absurd than some of our shots about the Pyramids , or ideas of life among the Babylonians . 
Well , good bye , old chap this is a stupid inconsequential letter , but life has been more quiet and less interesting just of late . 
I may have something a little more moving for my next . 
THE PARADE , BRADFIELD , rd April , . 
Well , so it has turned out ! The whole game is up here , and I am off upon a fresh line of rails altogether . 
Cullingworth is to go one way and I another and yet I am glad to say that there has not been any quarrel between us . 
As usual , I have begun my letter at the end , but I'll work up to it more deliberately now , and let you know exactly how it came about . 
And first of all , a thousand thanks for your two long letters , which lie before me as I write . 
There is little enough personal news in them , but I can quite understand that the quiet happy routine of your life reels off very smoothly from week to week . 
On the other hand , you give me plenty of proof of that inner life which is to me so very much more interesting . 
After all , we may very well agree to differ . 
You think some things are proved which I don't believe in . 
You think some things edifying which do not appear to me to be so . 
Well , I know that you are perfectly honest in your belief . 
I am sure you give me credit for being the same . 
The future wilt decide which of us is right . 
The survival of the truest is a constant law , I fancy , though it must be acknowledged that it is very slow in action . 
You make a mistake , however , in assuming that those who think as I do are such a miserable minority . 
When I read your letter , I made a list of all those men with whom I ever had intimate talk upon such matters . 
I got seventeen names , with four orthodox . 
Cullingworth tried and got twelve names , with one orthodox . 
From all sides , one hears that every church complains of the absence of men in the congregations . 
The women predominate three to one . 
Is it that women are more earnest than men ? I think it is quite the other way . 
But the men are following their reason , and the women their emotion . 
It is the women only who keep orthodoxy alive . 
No , you mustn't be too sure of that majority of yours . 
Taking the scientific , the medical , the professional classes , I question whether it exists at all . 
The clergy , busy in their own limited circles , and coming in contact only with those who agree with them , have not realised how largely the rising generation has outgrown them . 
it is not the most lax , but the BEST of the younger men , the larger brained and the larger hearted , who have shaken themselves most clear of the old theology . 
I do believe that Christianity in its different forms has been the very best thing for the world during all this long barbarous epoch . 
Of course , it has been the best thing , else Providence would not have permitted it . 
The engineer knows best what tools to use in strengthening his own machine . 
But when you say that this is the best and last tool which will be used , you are laying down the law a little too much . 
Now , first of all , I want to tell you about how the practice has been going on . 
The week after I wrote last showed a slight relapse . 
I only took two pounds . 
But on the next I took a sudden jump up to three pounds seven shillings , and this last week I took three pounds ten . 
So it was steadily creeping up and I really thought that I saw my road clear in front of me , when the bolt suddenly fell from the blue . 
There were reasons , however , which prevented my being very disappointed when it did come down and these I must make clear to you . 
I think that I mentioned , when I gave you a short sketch of my dear old mother , that she has a very high standard of family honour . 
that she would far rather see any one of us in our graves than know that we had committed a dishonourable action . 
Well , she had heard some details about the Cullingworths which displeased her when I first knew them . 
Then came the smash up at Avonmouth , and my mother liked them less and less . 
She was averse to my joining them in Bradfield , and it was only by my sudden movement at the end that I escaped a regular prohibition . 
was whether they had paid their Avonmouth creditors . 
I was compelled to answer that they had not . 
That produced another still more outspoken letter from her and so the correspondence went on , she attacking and I defending , until a serious breach seemed to be opening between us . 
My father , from the short note which he sent me , seemed to think the whole business absolutely irregular , and to refuse to believe my accounts of Cullingworth's practice and receipts . 
In fact , I was quite in the humour to finish it myself when Fate did it for me . 
Madam is as amiable as ever and yet somehow , unless I am deceiving myself , she has changed somewhat of late in her feelings towards me . 
I have turned upon her suddenly more than once , and caught the skirt of a glance which was little less than malignant . 
In one or two small matters I have also detected a hardness in her which I had never observed before . 
And yet I have often felt that my position was a false one . 
Perhaps a young man attaches too much importance to a woman's glances and gestures . 
He wishes to assign a definite meaning to each , when they may be only the passing caprice of the moment . 
Ah , well , I have nothing to blame myself with and in any case it will soon be all over now . 
And then I have seen something of the same sort in Cullingworth but he is so strange a being that I never attach much importance to his variations . 
He glares at me like an angry bull occasionally and then when I ask him what is the matter , he growls out , Oh , nothing ! and turns on his heel . 
Then at other times he is so cordial and friendly that he almost overdoes it , and I find myself wondering whether he is not acting . 
One day we went to the Central Hotel billiard room in the evening to play a match . 
Our form is just about the same , and we should have bad an enjoyable game if it had not been for that queer temper of his . 
He had been in a sullen humour the whole day , pretending not to hear what I said to him , or else giving snappy answers , and looking like a thunder cloud . 
At the end of the match , wanting two to win , I put down the white which was in the jaws of the pocket . 
He cried out that this was bad form . 
This opposition only increased his anger , and he suddenly broke out into most violent language , abusing me in unmeasured terms . 
I said to him , If you have anything to say to me , Cullingworth , come out into the street and say it there . 
It's a caddish thing to speak like that before the marker . 
He lifted his cue , and I thought he was going to strike me with it but he flung it clattering on the floor , and chucked half a crown to the man . 
When we got out in the street , he began at once in as offensive a tone as ever . 
That's enough , Cullingworth , I said . 
I've stood already rather more than I can carry . 
We were in the bright light of a shop window at that moment . 
He looked at me , and looked a second time , uncertain what to do . 
At any moment I might have found myself in a desperate street row with a man who was my medical partner . 
I gave no provocation , but kept myself keenly on the alert . 
, and passing his arm through mine , he hurried me down the street . 
Devil of a temper you've got , Munro , said he . 
By Crums , it's hardly safe to go out with you . 
I never know what you're going to do next . 
Eh , what ? You mustn't be peppery with me , though for I mean well towards you , as you'll see before you get finished with me . 
This has occurred again and again recently and , when coupled with the change in Mrs. Cullingworth's demeanour , makes one feel that something has happened to change one's relations . 
What that something may be , I give you my word that I have no more idea than you have . 
Between their coldness , however , and my unpleasant correspondence with my mother , I was often very sorry that I had not taken the South American liner . 
Cullingworth is preparing for the issue of our new paper . 
His mind runs rather on naval architecture at present , and he has been devising an ingenious method of preventing wooden sided vessels from being crippled by artillery fire . 
This new project has , however , more to recommend it . 
This is the idea , as put in his own words and , as he has been speaking of little else for the last two days , I ought to remember them . 
If you've got your armour there , laddie , it will be pierced , says he . 
Put up forty feet thick of steel and I'll build a gun that will knock it into tooth powder . 
It would blow away , and set the folk coughing after I had one shot at it . 
But you can't pierce armour which only drops after the shot has passed through . 
What's the good of it ? Why it keeps out the water . 
That's the main thing , after all . 
I call it the Cullingworth spring shutter screen . 
Eh , what , Munro ? I wouldn't take a quarter of a million for the idea . 
You see how it would work . 
Spring shutters are furled all along the top of the bulwarks where the hammocks used to be . 
They are in sections , three feet broad , we will say , and capable when let down of reaching the keel . 
Very well ! Enemy sends a shot through Section A of the side . 
Section A shutter is lowered . 
Only a thin film , you see , but enough to form a temporary plug . 
Enemy's ram knocks in sections B , C , D of the side . 
What do you do ? Founder ? Not a bit you lower sections B , C , and D of Cullingworth's spring shutter screen . 
Or you knock a hole on a rock . 
It's a ludicrous sight to see a big ship founder when so simple a precaution would absolutely save her . 
And it's equally good for ironclads also . 
A shot often starts their plates and admits water without breaking them . 
Down go your shutters , and all is well . 
That's his idea , and he is busy on a model made out of the steels of his wife's stays . 
It sounds plausible , but he has the knack of making anything plausible when he is allowed to slap his hands and bellow . 
We are both writing novels , but I fear that the results don't bear out his theory that a man may do anything which he sets his will to . 
, but Cullingworth says he has read it all before , and that it is much too conventional . 
We must rivet the attention of the public from the start , he says . 
Certainly , his own is calculated to do so , for it seems to me to be wild rubbish . 
The end of his first chapter is the only tolerable point that he has made . 
A fraudulent old baronet is running race horses on the cross . 
His son , who is just coming of age , is an innocent youth . 
The news of the great race of the year has just been received . 
Sir Robert tottered into the room with dry lips and a ghastly face . 
My poor boy ! he cried . 
Prepare for the worst ! Our horse has lost ! cried the young heir , springing from his chair . 
The old man threw himself in agony upon the rug . 
No , no ! he screamed . 
IT HAS WON ! Most of it , however , is poor stuff , and we are each agreed that the other was never meant for a novelist . 
So much for our domestic proceedings , and all these little details which you say you like to hear of . 
Now I must tell you of the great big change in my affairs , and how it came about . 
I have told you about the strange , sulky behaviour of Cullingworth , which has been deepening from day to day . 
Well , it seemed to reach a climax this morning , and on our way to the rooms I could hardly get a word out of him . 
The place was fairly crowded with patients , but my own share was rather below the average . 
When I had finished I added a chapter to my novel , and waited until he and his wife were ready for the daily bag carrying homewards . 
It was half past three before he had done . 
I heard him stamp out into the passage , and a moment later he came banging into my room . 
I saw in an instant that some sort of a crisis had come . 
Munro , he cried , this practice is going to the devil ! Ah ! said I. How's that ? It's going to little pieces , Munro . 
I've been taking figures , and I know what I am talking about . 
A month ago I was seeing six hundred a week . 
Then I dropped to five hundred and eighty then to five seventy five and now to five sixty . 
What do you think of that ? To be honest , I don't think much of it , I answered . 
The summer is coming on . 
You are losing all your coughs and colds and sore throats . 
Every practice must dwindle at this time of year . 
That's all very well , said he , pacing up and down the room , with his hands thrust into his pockets , and his great shaggy eyebrows knotted together . 
You may put it down to that , but I think quite differently about it . 
What do you put it down to , then ? To you . 
How's that ? I asked . 
I should be very sorry to think it was cause and effect , I answered . 
They come to my door , and they see two names , and their silly jaws begin to drop , and they say to each other , There's two of 'em here . 
Cullingworth we want to see , but if we go in we'll be shown as likely as not to Dr . 
So it ends in some cases in their not coming at all . 
Then there are the women . 
Women don't care a toss whether you are a Solomon , or whether you are hot from an asylum . 
It's all personal with them . 
You fetch them , or you don't fetch them . 
I know how to work them , but they won't come if they think they are going to be turned over to anybody else . 
That's what I put the falling away down to . 
Well , said I , that's easily set right . 
I marched out of the room and downstairs , with both Cullingworth and his wife behind me . 
Into the yard I went , and , picking up a big hammer , I started for the front door , with the pair still at my heels . 
I got the forked end of the hammer under my plate , and with a good wrench I brought the whole thing clattering on to the pavement . 
That won't interfere with you any more , said I. What do you intend to do now ? he asked . 
Oh , I shall find plenty to do . 
Don't you worry about that , I answered . 
Oh , but this is all rot , said he , picking up the plate . 
Come along upstairs and let us see where we stand . 
We filed off once more , he leading with the huge brass Dr . 
Munro under his arm then the little woman , and then this rather perturbed and bemuddled young man . 
Nothing could be more prosaic and informal but I knew very well that I was at a crisis of my life . 
Before , it was only a choosing between two roads . 
Now my main track had run suddenly to nothing , and I must go back or find a bye path . 
It is a time for plain speaking , I answered , it and we may as well thoroughly understand each other . 
If I have done your practice any harm , I assure you that I am heartily sorry , and I shall do all I can to repair it . 
What are you going to do , then ? asked Cullingworth . 
I shall either go to sea or else start a practice on my own account . 
But you have no money . 
Neither had you when you started . 
Ah , that was different . 
Still , it may be that you are right . 
You'll find it a stiff pull at first . 
Oh , I am quite prepared for that . 
Well , you know , Munro , I feel that I am responsible to you to some extent , since I persuaded you not to take that ship the other day . 
It was a pity , but it can't be helped . 
We must do what we can to make up . 
Now , I tell you what I am prepared to do . 
I was talking about it with Hetty this morning , and she thought as I did . 
I was down on my luck at first but the balmy air and the smell of spring and the budding flowers soon set me right again . 
I began my last letter among the stars , and I am inclined to finish this one among the flowers , for they are rare companions when one's mind is troubled . 
Most things on this earth , from a woman's beauty to the taste of a nectarine , seem to be the various baits with which Nature lures her silly gudgeons . 
They shall eat , they shall propagate , and for the sake of pleasing themselves they shall hurry down the road which has been laid out for them . 
But there lurks no bribe in the smell and beauty of the flower . 
It's charm has no ulterior motive . 
Well , I sat down there and brooded . 
In my heart I did not believe that Cullingworth had taken alarm at so trifling a decrease . 
That could not have been his real reason for driving me from the practice . 
He had found me in the way in his domestic life , no doubt , and he had devised this excuse for getting rid of me . 
On the whole , bearing in mind my mother's opposition , and the continual janglings which we had had during the last few weeks , I was not very sorry . 
And then as I walked back I considered how far I could avail myself of this money from Cullingworth . 
It was not much , but it would be madness to start without it , for I had sent home the little which I had saved at Horton's . 
I had not more than six pounds in the whole world . 
I reflected that the money could make no difference to Cullingworth , with his large income , while it made a vast one to me . 
I should repay him in a year or two at the latest . 
Perhaps I might get on so well as to be able to dispense with it almost at once . 
There could be no doubt that it was the representations of Cullingworth as to my future prospects in Bradfield which had made me refuse the excellent appointment in the Decia . 
I need not therefore have any scruples at accepting some temporary assistance from his hands . 
On my return , I told him that I had decided to do so , and thanked him at the same time for his generosity . 
That's all right , said he . 
Hetty , my dear , get a bottle of fez in , and we shall drink success to Munro's new venture . 
I must decide now where I am to start , I remarked . 
What I want is some nice little town where all the people are rich and ill . 
I suppose you wouldn't care to settle here in Bradfield ? asked Cullingworth . 
Well , I cannot see much point in that . 
If I harmed you as a partner , I might do so more as a rival . 
If I succeeded it might be at your expense . 
Well , said he , choose your town , and my offer still holds good . 
We hunted out an atlas , and laid the map of England before us on the table . 
Cities and villages lay beneath me as thick as freckles , and yet there was nothing to lead me to choose one rather than another . 
I think it should be some place large enough to give you plenty of room for expansion , said he . 
Not too near London , added Mrs. Cullingworth . 
And , above all , a place where I know nobody , said I. I can rough it by myself , but I can't keep up appearances before visitors . 
What do you say to Stockwell ? said Cullingworth , putting the amber of his pipe upon a town within thirty miles of Bradfield . 
I had hardly heard of the place , but I raised my glass . 
Well , here's to Stockwell ! I cried I shall go there to morrow morning and prospect . 
and so it is arranged , and you may rely upon it that I shall give you a full and particular account of the result . 
X. CADOGAN TERRACE , BIRCHESPOOL , i st May , . 
My dear old chap , things have been happening , and I must tell you all about it . 
The thought of you is like a good staff in my right hand . 
The unexpected has happened so continually in my life that it has ceased to deserve the name . 
Would you mind coming down and seeing James , Dr . 
He has been very strange all night , and I am afraid that he is ill . 
Down I went , and found Cullingworth looking rather red in the face , and a trifle wild about the eyes . 
He was sitting up in bed , with the neck of his nightgown open , and an acute angle of hairy chest exposed . 
He had a sheet of paper , a pencil , and a clinical thermometer upon the coverlet in front of him . 
Deuced interesting thing , Munro , said he . 
Come and look at this temperature chart . 
I've been taking it every quarter of an hour since I couldn't sleep , and it's up and down till it looks like the mountains in the geography books . 
We'll have some drugs in eh , what , Munro ? and by Crums , we'll revolutionise all their ideas about fevers . 
I'll write a pamphlet from personal experiment that will make all their books clean out of date , and they'll have to tear them up and wrap sandwiches in them . 
He was talking in the rapid slurring way of a man who has trouble coming . 
I looked at his chart , and saw that he was over degrees . 
His pulse rub a dubbed under my fingers , and his skin sent a glow into my hand . 
Any symptoms ? I asked , sitting down on the side of his bed . 
Tongue like a nutmeg grater , said he , thrusting it out . 
Frontal headache , renal pains , no appetite , and a mouse nibbling inside my left elbow . 
That's as far as we've got at present . 
I'll tell you what it is , Cullingworth , said I. You have a touch of rheumatic fever , and you will have to lie by for a bit . 
Lie by be hanged ! he cried . 
I've got a hundred people to see to day . 
My boy , I must be down there if I have the rattle in my throat . 
I didn't build up a practice to have it ruined by a few ounces of lactic acid . 
James dear , you can easily build up another one , said his wife , in her cooing voice . 
You must do what Dr . 
Well , said I , you'll want looking after , and your practice will want looking after , and I am quite ready to do both . 
But I won't take the responsibility unless you give me your word that you will do what you are told . 
By Crums , they might get the salts and oxalic acid mixed up if they came to treat me , for there's no love lost between us . 
But I want to go down to the practice all the same . 
It's out of the question . 
You know the sequel of this complaint . 
You'll have endocarditis , embolism , thrombosis , metastatic abscesses you know the danger as well as I do . 
He sank back into his bed laughing . 
I take my complaints one at a time , thank you , said he . 
I wouldn't be so greedy as to have all those eh , Munro , what ? when many another poor devil hasn't got an ache to his back . 
The four posts of his bed quivered with his laughter . 
Do what you like , laddie but I say , mind , if anything should happen , no tomfoolery over my grave . 
If you put so much as a stone there , by Crums , Munro , I'll come back in the dead of the night and plant it on the pit of your stomach . 
Nearly three weeks passed before he could set his foot to the ground again . 
He wasn't such a bad patient , after all but he rather complicated my treatment by getting in all sorts of phials and powders , and trying experiments upon his own symptoms . 
It was impossible to keep him quiet , and our only means of retaining him in bed was to allow him all the work that he could do there . 
He wrote copiously , built up models of his patent screen , and banged off pistols at his magnetic target , which he had rigged tip on the mantelpiece . 
Nature has given him a constitution of steel , however , and he shook off his malady more quickly and more thoroughly than the most docile of sufferers . 
In the meantime , Mrs. Cullingworth and I ran the practice together . 
As a substitute for him I was a dreadful failure . 
They would not believe in me in the least . 
I felt that I was as flat as water after champagne . 
I could not address them from the stairs , nor push them about , nor prophesy to the anaeemic women . 
I was much too solemn and demure after what they had been accustomed to . 
However , I held the thing together as best I could , and I don't think that he found the practice much the worse when he was able to take it over . 
I could not descend to what I thought was unprofessional , but I did my very best to keep the wheels turning . 
Well , I know that I am a shocking bad story teller , but I just try to get things as near the truth as I can manage it . 
If I only knew how to colour it up , I could make some of this better reading . 
Then within a couple of posts I had to write again and announce that my departure was indefinitely postponed , and that I was actually doing his whole practice . 
Well , the dear old lady was very angry . 
I don't suppose she quite understood how temporary the necessity was , and how impossible it would have been to leave Cullingworth in the lurch . 
She went so far as to say that Cullingworth was a bankrupt swindler , and that I had dragged the family honour in the dirt by my prolonged association with him . 
This letter came on the morning of the very last day that my patient was confined to the house . 
When I returned from work I found him sitting in his dressing gown downstairs . 
His wife , who had driven home , was beside him . 
was as ungracious as before our last explanation . 
His wife , too , seemed to avoid my eye , and cocked her chin at me when she spoke . 
Yes , I'll take it over to morrow , said he . 
You know where you are then , but a favour is a thing with no end to it . 
What d'you put it at ? I never thought about it in that light . 
Well , think about it now . 
A locum would have cost me four guineas a week . 
Well , I promised to allow you a pound a week , and you were to pay it back . 
I'll put twenty pounds to your credit account , and you'll have it every week as sure as Saturday . 
Thank you , said I. If you are so anxious to make a business matter of it , you can arrange it so . 
They might have done it with more tact . 
Alas ! there was not the faintest . 
The sight of the place would have damped the most sanguine man that ever lived . 
It is one of those picturesque little English towns with a history and little else . 
A Roman trench and a Norman keep are its principal products . 
But to me the most amazing thing about it was the cloud of doctors which had settled upon it . 
A double row of brass plates flanked the principal street . 
Where their patients came from I could not imagine , unless they practised upon each other . 
As I chatted with him a middle aged , dusty booted man trudged up the street . 
He's only a new comer , but they say that some o' these days he'll be starting his carriage . 
What do you mean by a new comer ? I asked . 
Oh , he's scarcely been here ten years , said the landlord . 
My fruitless journey seemed a small thing , however , when I thought of the rising Stockwellite with his ten years and his dusty boots . 
There was a singular look upon both their faces which seemed to ME to mean that they were disappointed at this hitch in getting rid of me . 
When I think of their absolute geniality a few days ago , and their markedly reserved manner now , I can make no sense out of it . 
I asked Cullingworth point blank what it meant , but he only turned it off with a forced laugh , and some nonsense about my thin skin . 
I think that I am the last man in the world to take offence where none is meant but at any rate I determined to end the matter by leaving Bradfield at once . 
You rely upon me , laddie , said C. with something of his old geniality , as we shook hands on parting . 
You get a good house in a central position , put up your plate and hold on by your toe nails . 
Charge little or nothing until you get a connection , and none of your professional haw dammy or you are a broken man . 
I'll see that you don't stop steaming for want of coal . 
So with that comforting assurance I left them on the platform of the Bradfield station . 
The words seem kind , do they not ? and yet taking this money jars every nerve in my body . 
When I find that I can live on bread and water without it , I will have no more of it . 
But to do without it now would be for the man who cannot swim to throw off his life belt . 
I had plenty of time on my way to Birchespool to reflect upon my prospects and present situation . 
My baggage consisted of a large brassplate , a small leather trunk , and a hat box . 
The plate with my name engraved upon it was balanced upon the rack above my head . 
In my box were a stethoscope , several medical books , a second pair of boots , two suits of clothes , my linen and my toilet things . 
But at least there was some chance of permanency about this and if there was the promise of poverty and hardship , there was also that of freedom . 
I should have no Lady Saltire to toss up her chin because I had my own view of things , no Cullingworth to fly out at me about nothing . 
I would be my own my very own . 
I capered up and down the carriage at the thought . 
After all , I had everything to gain and nothing in the whole wide world to lose . 
And I had youth and strength and energy , and the whole science of medicine packed in between my two ears . 
I felt as exultant as though I were going to take over some practice which lay ready for me . 
It was about four in the afternoon when I reached Birchespool , which is fifty three miles by rail from Bradfield . 
When I turned out with my brass plate , my trunk , and my hat box upon the Birchespool platform , I sat down and wondered what my first move should be . 
Every penny was going to be of the most vital importance to me , and I must plan things within the compass of that tiny purse . 
They wore white sun hats , and were leaving for Malta , in anticipation of war in Egypt . 
They were young soldiers English by the white facings with a colonel whose moustache reached his shoulders , and a number of fresh faced long legged subalterns . 
At first the folk on my side looked at me in their bovine fashion like a row of cows over a wall . 
At the second a good many joined , and at the third my own voice was entirely lost . 
So I turned to go my way , and the soldier laddies to go theirs and I wondered which of us had the stiffest and longest fight before us . 
The conductor interested himself in my wants in that personal way which makes me think that the poorer classes in England are one of the kindliest races on earth . 
I could not complain of a limited selection , for a to let or apartments was peeping out of every second window . 
I went into the first attractive house that I saw , and interviewed the rather obtuse and grasping old lady who owned it . 
A sitting bed room was to be had for thirteen shillings a week . 
I tried another look and an exclamation of astonishment but as she stood firm , I gathered that I had touched the bottom . 
Your rooms are quite clean ? I asked , for there was a wooden panelling which suggested possibilities . 
No vermin ? The officers of the garrison come sometimes . 
This took some thinking out . 
It had an ugly sound , but I gathered that she meant that there could be no question about the cleanliness since these gentlemen were satisfied . 
So the bargain was struck , and I ordered tea to be ready in an hour , while I went back to the station to fetch up my luggage . 
and so I found myself in the heart of Birchespool with a base of operations secured . 
You've got to conquer me , said I , or else I'm man enough to conquer you . 
Certainly it reads more like what might happen to a man in a book , but you may take it from me that it worked out just as I set it down here . 
When I had finished my tea , I wrote a few letters one to Cullingworth , and one to Horton . 
Then , as it was a lovely evening , I determined to stroll out and see what sort of a place it was upon which Fate had washed me up . 
I walked down to the Park , which is the chief centre of the place , and I found that I liked everything I saw of it . 
It was a lovely evening , and the air was fresh and sweet . 
I sat down and listened to the band for an hour , watching all the family parties , and feeling particularly lonely . 
On the whole , I felt that Birchespool was a place in which a man might very well spend a happy life . 
there is a wide open space where several streets meet . 
In the centre of this stands a large lamp in the middle of a broad stone pedestal , a foot or so high , and ten or twelve across . 
Well , as I strolled along I saw there was something going on round this lamppost . 
A crowd of people had gathered , with a swirl in the centre . 
I was , of course , absolutely determined not to get mixed up in any row but I could not help pushing my way through the crowd to see what was the matter . 
It wasn't a pretty sight . 
He was one of those red faced , dark eyed men who can look peculiarly malignant when they choose . 
It was clear that he was half mad with drink , and that she had been trying to lure him away from some den . 
If , Bertie , it had been old student days , I should have sailed straight in , as you or any other fellow would have done . 
My flesh crept with my loathing for the brute . 
But I had also to think of what I was and where I was , and what I had come there to do . 
Instead of pulling himself together , he very nearly knocked me asunder . 
I was all abroad for an instant . 
He had turned on me like a flash , and had struck me on the throat just under the chin , my head being a little back at the moment . 
It made me swallow once or twice , I can tell you . 
Sudden as the blow was , I had countered , in the automatic sort of way that a man who knows anything of boxing does . 
It was only from the elbow , with no body behind it , but it served to stave him off for the moment , while I was making inquiries about my windpipe . 
For the next few minutes it struck me as the liveliest I had ever seen . 
The fellow was a round hand hitter , but so strong that he needed watching . 
However , I took particular care that my man did not get home but , on the other hand , I fear that I did not do him much harm either . 
He bored in with his head down and I , like a fool , broke my knuckles over the top of his impenetrable skull . 
However , I was cooling down , and I daresay should in time have done something rational , when the affray came to a sudden and unexpected end . 
This was from the impatience and excitement of the crowd . 
were flung right up against us . 
What , you ! yelled the sailor and in an instant he had taken over the whole contract , and was at it hammer and tongs with my beauty . 
I grabbed my stick , which had fallen among the crowd , and backed my way out , rather dishevelled , but very glad to get off so cheaply . 
From the shouting which I could hear some time after I reached the door of my lodgings , I gathered that a good battle was still raging . 
You see , it was the merest piece of luck in the world that my first appearance in Birchespool was not in the dock of the police court . 
I should have had no one to answer for me , if I had been arrested , and should have been put quite on a level with my adversary . 
I daresay you think I made a great fool of myself , but I should like to know how I could have acted otherwise . 
The only thing that I feel now is my loneliness . 
Alone each is a half made being , with every instinct and feeling yearning for its missing moiety . 
Together they form a complete and symmetrical whole , the minds of each strongest where that of the other needs reinforcing . 
, every male soul will have a female one attached to or combined with it , to round it off and give it symmetry . 
So thought the old Mormon , you remember , who used it as an argument for his creed . 
You cannot take your railway stocks into the next world with you , he said . 
But with all our wives and children we should make a good start in the world to come . 
I daresay you are smiling at me , as you read this , from the vantage ground of your two years of matrimony . 
It will be long before I shall be able to put my views into practice . 
We differ as widely as the poles , you and I , and have done ever since I have known you . 
To that I will turn myself to morrow morning , and you shall know the result . 
Whom should I hear from the other day but Archie McLagan ? Of course it was a begging letter . 
With every good wish to you and yours , including your town , your State , and your great country , yours as ever . 
OAKLEY VILLAS , BIRCHESPOOL , th May , . 
I forget the new roaring suburbs with their out going manufactures and their incoming wealth , and I live in the queer health giving old city of the past . 
The wave of fashion has long passed over it , but a deposit of dreary respectability has been left behind . 
There are the very high curbstones too , so that Lady Teazle or Mrs. Sneerwell could step out of coach or sedan chair without soiling her dainty satin shoes . 
It brings home to me what an unstable chemical compound man is . 
Then for a jump of a hundred years . 
It is no compliment to the Creator to depreciate His handiwork . 
Whatever theory or belief we may hold about the soul , there can , I suppose , be no doubt that the body is immortal . 
, but it can never be destroyed . 
I think it is possible that we DO impress ourselves upon the units of our own structure . 
Well , if a single cell contains so much , perhaps a single molecule and atom has more than we think . 
Have you ever had any personal experience of dermoid cysts ? We had one in Cullingworth's practice just before his illness , and we were both much excited about it . 
They seem to me to be one of those wee little chinks through which one may see deep into Nature's workings . 
In this case the fellow , who was a clerk in the post office , came to us with a swelling over his eyebrow . 
We opened it under the impression that it was an abscess , and found inside some hair and a rudimentary jaw with teeth in it . 
You know that such cases are common enough in surgery , and that no pathological museum is without an example . 
But what are we to understand by it ? So startling a phenomenon must have a deep meaning . 
But , my goodness , where have I got to ? All this comes from the Birchespool lamp posts and curb stones . 
And I sat down to write such a practical letter too ! However , I give you leave to be as dogmatic and didactic as you like in return . 
Cullingworth says my head is like a bursting capsule , with all the seeds getting loose . 
Poor seed , too , I fear , but some of it may lodge somewhere or not , as Fate pleases . 
I wrote to you last on the night that I reached here . 
Next morning I set to work upon my task . 
to see how practical and methodical I can be . 
First of all I walked down to the post office and I bought a large shilling map of the town . 
Then back I came and pinned this out upon the lodging house table . 
This done , I set to work to study it , and to arrange a series of walks by which I should pass through every street of the place . 
You have no idea what that means until you try to do it . 
, walk till four , get back and note results . 
On my map I put a cross for every empty house and a circle for every doctor . 
In the meantime I had enlisted a most unexpected ally . 
On the second evening a card was solemnly brought up by the landlady's daughter from the lodger who occupied the room below . 
On it was inscribed Captain Whitehall and then underneath , in brackets , Armed Transport . 
presents his compliments to Dr . 
Munro , and would be glad of his company to supper at . 
To this I answered , Dr . 
, and will be most happy to accept his kind invitation . 
What Armed Transport might mean I had not an idea , but I thought it well to include it , as he seemed so particular about it himself . 
On descending I found a curious looking figure in a gray dressing gown with a purple cord . 
He was an elderly man his hair not quite white yet , but well past mouse colour . 
Munro , sir , said he , as he shook my hand . 
I take it as very kind of you that you should accept an informal invitation . 
So regular was his formula that I may omit it and you suppose it , every time that he opened his mouth . 
A dash here and there will remind you . 
It's been my practice , Dr . 
Munro , sir , to make friends with my neighbours through life and some strange neighbours I have had . 
That was when I commanded the armed transport Hegira in the Black Sea in . 
Burst up in the great gale in Balaclava Bay , sir , and not as much left as you could pick your teeth with . 
There was a strong smell of whisky in the room , and an uncorked bottle upon the mantelpiece . 
Not much to offer you , Dr . 
The hind leg of a duck , and a sailor's welcome . 
Not Royal Navy , sir , though I have a sight better manners than many that are . 
Well , as the supper progressed I warmed with the liquor and the food , and I told my new acquaintance all about my plans and intentions . 
I didn't realise how lonely I had been until I found the pleasure of talking . 
He listened to it all with much sympathy , and to my horror tossed off a whole tumbler full of neat whisky to my success . 
So enthusiastic was he that it was all I could do to prevent him from draining a second one . 
You'll do it , Dr . 
Munro , sir ! he cried . 
I know a man when I see one , and you'll do it . 
Yes , sir , you'll make a good ship mate , and I'm glad to have you on my poop . 
At last , however , his conversation became unbearable a foul young man is odious , but a foul old one is surely the most sickening thing on earth . 
One feels that the white upon the hair , like that upon the mountain , should signify a height attained . 
I had to go into the street and walk up and down for half an hour before I felt clean enough to go to bed . 
Munro , sir , said he , holding out a twitching hand . 
I compliment you , sir ! You look fresh , fresh , and me with a head like a toy shop . 
We had a pleasant , quiet evening , and I took nothing to hurt , but it is the relaxing air of this place that settles me . 
I can't bear up against it . 
Last year it gave me the horrors , and I expect it will again . 
You're off house hunting , I suppose ? I start immediately after breakfast . 
I take a cursed interest in the whole thing . 
You may think it a impertinence , but that's the way I'm made . 
As long as I can steam I'll throw a rope to whoever wants a tow . 
I'll tell you what I'll do , Dr . 
I'll stand on one tack if you'll stand on the other , and I'll let you know if I come across anything that will do . 
There seemed to be no alternative between taking him with me , or letting him go alone so I could only thank him and let him have carte blanche . 
Every night he would turn up , half drunk as a rule , having , I believe , walked his ten or fifteen miles as conscientiously as I had done . 
He came with the most grotesque suggestions . 
Once he had actually entered into negotiations with the owner of a huge shop , a place that had been a raper's , with a counter about sixty feet long . 
His reason was that he knew an innkeeper who had done very well a little further down on the other side . 
The other was a sad faced poetical looking man , of good birth as I understood , who had been disowned by his family on the occasion of his eloping with the cook . 
He would cock his head , think over his own symptoms , and then give you the hour fairly correctly . 
Well , when I had finished my empty house and doctor chart , I found that there was one villa to let , which undoubtedly was far the most suitable for my purpose . 
In the first place it was fairly cheap forty pounds , or fifty with taxes . 
It stood with the well to do quarter upon the one side , and the poorer upon the other . 
Finally , it was almost at the intersection of four roads , one of which was a main artery of the town . 
I hurried round and burst into the office with a precipitancy which rather startled the demure clerk inside . 
His replies , however , were reassuring . 
The house was still to let . 
It was not quite the quarter yet , but I could enter into possession . 
I must sign an agreement to take it for one year , and it was usual to pay a quarter's rent in advance . 
I don't know whether I turned colour a little . 
In advance ! I said , as carelessly as I could . 
Or references ? Well , that depends , of couse sic , upon the references . 
Still , if it is the same to the firm , I may as well pay by the quarter , as I shall do afterwards . 
What names did you propose to give ? he asked . 
My heart gave a bound , for I knew that all was right . 
There's my uncle , Sir Alexander Munro , Lismore House , Dublin , said I. He would be happy to answer any inquiry , and so would my friend Dr . 
I brought him down with both barrels . 
I could see it by his eyes and the curve of his back . 
I have no doubt that that will be quite satisfactory , said he . 
Perhaps you would kindly sign the agreement . 
I did so , and drew my hind foot across the Rubicon . 
Come what might , Oakley Villas was on my hand for a twelve month . 
Would you like the key now ? I nearly snatched it out of his hands . 
Then away I ran to take possession of my property . 
Never shall I forget my feelings , my dear Bertie , when the key clicked in the lock , and the door flew open . 
In all my life it was the first time that I had ever stood upon boards which were not paid for by another . 
Then I proceeded to go from room to room with a delicious sense of exploration . 
There were two upon the ground floor , sixteen feet square each , and I saw with satisfaction that the wall papers were in fair condition . 
The front one would make a consulting room , the other a waiting room , though I did not care to reflect who was most likely to do the waiting . 
I was in the highest spirits , and did a step dance in each room as an official inauguration . 
Then down a winding wooden stair to the basement , where were kitchen and scullery , dimly lit , and asphalt floored . 
As I entered the latter I stood staring . 
In every corner piles of human jaws were grinning at me . 
The place was a Golgotha ! In that half light the effect was sepulchral . 
But as I approached and picked up one of them the mystery vanished . 
They were of plaster of Paris , and were the leavings evidently of the dentist , who had been the last tenant . 
A more welcome sight was a huge wooden dresser with drawers and a fine cupboard in the corner . 
It only wanted a table and a chair to be a furnished room . 
Then I ascended again and went up the first flight of stairs . 
There were two other good sized apartments there . 
One should be my bedroom , and the other a spare room . 
And then another flight with two more . 
One for the servant , when I had one , and the other for a guest . 
From the windows I had a view of the undulating gray back of the city , with the bustle of green tree tops . 
It was a windy day , and the clouds were drifting swiftly across the heavens , with glimpses of blue between . 
Here was a new chapter of my life about to be opened . 
What was to be the end of it ? I had strength , I had gifts . 
I was on my knees hurled down all against my own will , as it were . 
And even then I could find no words to say . 
Only vague yearnings and emotions and a heartfelt wish to put my shoulder to the great wheel of good . 
What could I say ? Every prayer seemed based on the idea that God was a magnified man that He needed asking and praising and thanking . 
Should the cog of the wheel creak praise to the Engineer ? Let it rather cog harder , and creak less . 
Yet I did , I confess , try to put the agitation of my soul into words . 
I meant it for a prayer but when I considered afterwards the supposing thats and in case ofs with which it was sprinkled , it must have been more like a legal document . 
And yet I felt soothed and happier as I went downstairs again . 
I tell you this , Bertie , because if I put reason above emotion I would not have you think that I am not open to attacks of the latter also . 
I feel that what I say about religion is too cold and academic . 
I feel that there should be something warmer and sweeter and more comforting . 
I'm a volunteer for God's own forlorn hope , and I'll clamber up the breech as long as I think I can see the flag of truth waving in front of me . 
Well , my next two cares were to get drugs and furniture . 
The former I was sure that I could obtain on long credit while the latter I was absolutely determined not to get into debt over . 
Cullingworth must , I should think , have been one of their very largest customers , so I knew very well that my order would meet with prompt attention . 
There remained the more serious matter of the furniture . 
I calculated that when my lodgings were paid for I might , without quite emptying my purse , expend four pounds upon furniture not a large allowance for a good sized villa . 
That would leave me a few shillings to go on with , and before they were exhausted Cullingworth's pound would come in . 
Those pounds , however , would be needed for the rent , so I could hardly reckon upon them at all , as far as my immediate wants went . 
Munro , sir , I'm the man that's going to stick to you . 
I'm only an old sailor man , sir , with perhaps more liquor than sense but I'm the Queen's servant , and touch my pension every quarter day . 
I don't claim to be R. N. , but I'm not merchant service either . 
Here I am , rotting in lodgings , but by , Dr . 
Munro , sir , I carried seven thousand stinking Turks from Varna to Balaclava Bay . 
I'm with you , Dr . 
Munro , and we put this thing through together . 
We came to the auction rooms and we stood on the fringe of the crowd waiting for our chance . 
Presently up went a very neat little table . 
I gave a nod and got it for nine shillings . 
Then three rather striking looking chairs , black wood and cane bottoms . 
Four shillings each I gave for those . 
Then a metal umbrella stand , four and sixpence . 
That was a mere luxury , but I was warming to the work . 
A job lot of curtains all tied together in a bundle went up . 
The auctioneer's eye came round to me , and I nodded . 
Mine again for five and sixpence . 
Whenever I bid for anything , Whitehall thrust his black thorn up into the air , and presently I found him doing so on my behalf when I had no intention of buying . 
I narrowly escaped having to give fourteen and sixpence for a stuffed macaw in a glass case . 
It would do to hang in your hall , Dr . 
Munro , sir , said he when I remonstrated with him . 
When the auction was over , I paid my bill and had my goods hoisted on to a trolly , the porter undertaking to deliver them for two shillings . 
I found that I had over estimated the cost of furnishing , for the total expense was little more than three pounds . 
We walked round to Oakley Villa , and I proudly deposited all my goods in the hall . 
And here came another extraordinary example of the kindness of the poorer classes . 
The porter when I had paid him went out to his trolly and returned with a huge mat of oakum , as ugly a thing as I have ever set eyes upon . 
This he laid down inside my door , and then without a word , brushing aside every remonstrance or attempt at thanks , he vanished away with his trolly into the night . 
Next morning I came round to my house MY house , my boy ! for good and all , after paying off my landlady . 
Her bill came to more than I expected , for I only had breakfast and tea , always dining out as I majestically expressed it . 
However , it was a relief to me to get it settled , and to go round with my box to Oakley Villas . 
An ironmonger had fixed my plate on to the railings for half a crown the evening before , and there it was , glittering in the sun , when I came round . 
It made me quite shy to look at it , and I slunk into the house with a feeling that every window in the street had a face in it . 
But once inside , there was so much to be done that I did not know what I should turn to first . 
I bought a one and ninepenny broom and set to work . 
You notice that I am precise about small sums , because just there lies the whole key of the situation . 
After that I did as much for the upper floor , with the result that I brought several square yards of dust down into the hall again , and undid my previous cleaning . 
This was disheartening , but at least it taught me to begin at the furthest point in future . 
When I had finished , I was as hot and dirty as if it were half time at a football match . 
I thought of our tidy charwoman at home , and realised what splendid training she must be in . 
Then came the arranging of the furniture . 
The hall was easily managed , for the planks were of a dark colour , which looked well of themselves . 
It was a fine effect , and I was exceedingly proud of it . 
From that I turned to the most important point of all the arrangement of my consulting room . 
My experience with Cullingworth had taught me one thing at least , that patients care nothing about your house if they only think that you can cure them . 
Once get that idea into their heads , and you may live in a vacant stall in a stable and write your prescriptions on the manger . 
My red drugget I laid out in the centre , and fastened it down with brass headed nails . 
It looked much smaller than I had hoped , a little red island on an ocean of deal board , or a postage stamp in the middle of an envelope . 
In the centre of it I placed my table , with three medical works on one side of it , and my stethoscope and dresser's case upon the other . 
I placed them finally one on the right , and one in front of the table . 
In the window I placed my little square table , and balanced upon it a photograph with an ivory mounting and a nice plush frame which I had brought in my trunk . 
When I had finished I really do not believe that any one could have guessed that the total contents of that room came to about thirty shillings . 
Then I pulled my iron bed upstairs and fixed it in the room which I had from the first determined upon as my bedchamber . 
I found an old packing case in the yard a relic of my predecessor's removal and this made a very good wash hand stand for my basin and jug . 
When it was all fixed up I walked , swelling with pride , through my own chambers , giving a touch here and a touch there until I had it perfect . 
Well , that's as far as I've got as yet . 
Pray , give my kindest remembrances to your wife , and to Camelford also , if he should happen to come your way . 
He was on the Mississippi when last I heard . 
OAKLEY VILLAS , BIRCHESPOOL , th June , . 
I was startled when I looked at it , three half crowns , a florin , and four sixpences , or eleven and sixpence in all . 
I had expected to hear from Cullingworth before this but at least he was always there , a trusty friend , at my back . 
I described the favourable position of the house , and gave him every detail of the rent and neighbourhood . 
That letter would , I was sure , bring a reply from him which would contain my weekly remittance . 
One thing I had , above all , determined upon . 
That was that , whatever hardships might lie before me , I would fight through them without help from home . 
I sat in my house all day , with that ever present sense of privacy and novelty which had thrilled me when I first shut the street door behind me . 
, a pound of sugar , a tin of Swiss milk , and a tin of American potted meat . 
I had often heard my mother groan over the expenses of housekeeping , and now I began to understand what she meant . 
Two and ninepence went like a flash , but at least I had enough to keep myself going for some days . 
There was a convenient gas bracket in the back room . 
I hammered a splinter of wood into the wall above it , and so made an arm upon which I could hang my little kettle and boil it over the flame . 
The attraction of the idea was that there was no immediate expense , and many things would have happened before I was called upon to pay the gas bill . 
The back room was converted then into both kitchen and dining room . 
The sole furniture consisted of my box , which served both as cupboard , as table , and as chair . 
It was only when I went to my bedroom that I realised the oversights which I had made in my furnishing . 
There was no mattress and no pillow or bed clothes . 
My mind had been so centred upon the essentials for the practice , that I had never given a thought to my own private wants . 
I slept that night upon the irons of my bed , and rose up like St . 
My second suit of clothes with Bristowe's Principles of Medicine made an excellent pillow , while on a warm June night a man can do well wrapped in his overcoat . 
, two terra cotta vases , a tea cosy , two pictures in frames , several books , an ornamental ink pot , and a number of antimacassars and coloured tablecloths . 
It is not until you own a table with a deal top and mahogany legs , that you understand what the true inner meaning of an ornamental cloth is . 
Right on the top of this treasure came a huge hamper from the Apothecaries' Society with the drugs which I had ordered . 
When they were laid out in line , the bottles extended right down one side of the dining room and half down the other . 
And I added to my effects in a marvellous way . 
I made myself an excellent mattress out of some sacking and the straw in which the medicine bottles had been packed . 
I had done all this with a light heart and a good spirit before the paralysing blow which I shall have to tell you about , came upon me . 
Of course it was obvious from the first that a servant was out of the question . 
I could not feed one , far less pay one , and I had no kitchen furniture . 
I must open my door to my own patients let them think what they would of it . 
Well , there was no great hardship in that , for I could do it under the cover of night . 
But I had had a suggestion from my mother which simplified matters immensely . 
She had written to say that if I wished she would send my little brother Paul to keep me company . 
I wrote back eagerly to agree . 
Some weeks must pass before he could come , but it cheered me to think of him . 
Apart from his company , there were a thousand ways in which he might be useful . 
I was not quite sure yet whether I loathed the man or liked him . 
He was the most extraordinary mixture of charity and drunkenness , lechery and self sacrifice that I had ever come across . 
But he brought into the house with him a whiff of cheeriness and hope for which I could not but be grateful . 
He had a large brown paper parcel under his arm , which he unwrapped upon my table , displaying a great brown jar . 
This he carried over and deposited on the centre of my mantel piece . 
You will permit me , Dr . 
Munro , sir , to place this trifle in your room . 
It's lava , sir lava from Vesuvius , and made in Naples . 
By , you may think its empty , Dr . 
I tell you , Bertie , the tears started to my eyes , and I could hardly gulp out a word or two of thanks . 
Only for an instant though , for he hardened again into his usual reckless and half defiant manner . 
There's another thing , sir . 
I've been thinking for some time back of having a medical opinion on myself . 
I'd be glad to put myself under your hands , if you would take a survey of me . 
What's the matter ? I asked . 
Munro , sir , said he , I am a walking museum . 
You could fit what ISN'T the matter with me on to the back of a visiting card . 
If there's any complaint you want to make a special study of , just you come to me , sir , and see what I can do for you . 
It's not every one that can say that he has had cholera three times , and cured himself by living on red pepper and brandy . 
If you can only set the little germs sneezing they'll soon leave you alone . 
That's my theory about cholera , and you should make a note of it , Dr . 
I fill in Whitehall's oaths with blanks because I feel how hopeless it is to reproduce their energy and variety . 
I was amazed when he stripped , for his whole body was covered with a perfect panorama of tattooings , with a big blue Venus right over his heart . 
You may knock , said he , when I began to percuss his chest , but I am sure there's no one at home . 
They've all gone visiting one another . 
Sir John Hutton had a try some years ago . 
Why , dammy , man , where's your liver ? said he . 
Seems to me that some one has stirred you up with a porridge stick , said he . 
Nothing is in its right place . 
Except my heart , Sir John , said I. Aye , by , that will never lose its moorings while it has a flap left . 
Well , I examined him , and I found his own account not very far from the truth . 
I went over him carefully from head to foot , and there was not much left as Nature made it . 
He had mitral regurgitation , cirrhosis of the liver , Bright's disease , an enlarged spleen , and incipient dropsy . 
I gave him a lecture about the necessity of temperance , if not of total abstinence but I fear that my words made no impression . 
He chuckled , and made a kind of clucking noise in his throat all the time that I was speaking , but whether in assent or remonstrance I cannot say . 
He pulled out his purse when I had finished , but I begged him to look on my small service as a mere little act of friendship . 
This would not do at all , however , and he seemed so determined about it that I was forced to give way . 
My fee is five shillings , then , since you insist upon making it a business matter . 
Now that I have come to a gentleman and a friend , stiffen me purple if I pay one farthing less . 
So , after much argument , it ended in the kind fellow going off and leaving a sovereign and a shilling on the edge of my table . 
Out I sallied and spent sixteen shillings of it upon a new palliasse which should go under the straw mattress upon my bed . 
However , I had not quite got to the end of Whitehall's visit yet . 
When I went back I took down the beautiful lava jug , and inside I found his card . 
On the back was written , You have gone into action , sir . 
It may be your fate to sink or to swim , but it can never be your degradation to strike . 
Die on the last plank and be damned to you , or come into port with your ensign flying mast high . 
Was it not fine ? It stirred my blood , and the words rang like a bugle call in my head . 
It braced me , and the time was coming when all the bracing I could get would not be too much . 
I copied it out , and pinned it on one side of my mantel piece . 
On the other I stuck up a chip from Carlyle , which I daresay is as familiar to you as to me . 
We are not lost not a single atom of us of one of us . 
Now , there is a religious sentence which is intellectually satisfying , and therefore morally sound . 
This last quotation leads to my second visitor . 
with as many young lawyers or doctors . 
Still , I have no love for the cloth . 
If he has any rancour or hardness in him it will bring it out . 
I was therefore by no means overjoyed to see my visitor , though I trust that I received him with fitting courtesy . 
The quick little glance of surprise which he shot round him as he entered my consulting room , told me that it was not quite what he had expected . 
You see , the Vicar has been away for two years , he explained , and we have to look after things in his absence . 
His chest is weak , and he can't stand Birchespool . 
I live just opposite , and , seeing your plate go up , I thought I would call and welcome you into our parish . 
I told him that I was very much obliged for the attention . 
If he had stopped there all would have been well , and we should have had a pleasant little chat . 
But I suppose it was his sense of duty which would not permit it . 
I trust , said he , that we shall see you at St . 
I was compelled to explain that it was not probable . 
A Roman Catholic ? he asked , in a not unfriendly voice . 
I shook my head , but nothing would discourage him . 
Not a dissenter ! he exclaimed , with a sudden hardening of his genial face . 
I shook my head again . 
Ah , a little lax a little remiss ! he said playfully , and with an expression of relief . 
Professional men get into these ways . 
They have much to distract them . 
But instead of soothing him , my conciliatory answer seemed to be taken as a challenge . 
I trust , said he severely , that your belief goes further than that . 
You , are surely prepared to admit that He was an incarnation of the God head . 
I began to feel like the old badger in his hole who longs to have a scratch at the black muzzle which is so eager to draw him . 
If , on the other hand , He was intrinsically of a different nature to ourselves , then His existence loses its point , since we and He start upon a different basis . 
To my mind it is obvious that such a supposition takes away the beauty and the moral of His life . 
If He was divine then He COULD not sin , and there was an end of the matter . 
We who are not divine and can sin , have little to learn from a life like that . 
He triumphed over sin , said my visitor , as if a text or a phrase were an argument . 
A cheap triumph ! I said . 
I confess , in my own case , that my sympathy is as strong when I think of His weaknesses as of His wisdom and His virtue . 
They come more home to me , I suppose , since I am weak myself . 
Perhaps you would be good enough to tell me what has impressed you as weak in His conduct ? asked my visitor stiffly . 
Well , the more human traits weak' is hardly the word I should have used . 
You are a Unitarian , then , or rather , perhaps , a mere Deist ? said the curate , with a combative flush . 
I don't pretend to know what truth is , for it is infinite , and I finite but I know particularly well what it is NOT . 
It is not true that religion reached its acme nineteen hundred years ago , and that we are for ever to refer back to what was written and said in those days . 
No , sir religion is a vital living thing , still growing and working , capable of endless extension and development , like all other fields of thought . 
There were many eternal truths spoken of old and handed down to us in a book , some parts of which may indeed be called holy . 
A modern prophet may wear a broadcloth coat and write to the magazines but none the less he may be the little pipe which conveys a tiny squirt from the reservoirs of truth . 
Look at this ! I cried , rising and reading my Carlyle text . 
That comes from no Hebrew prophet , but from a ratepayer in Chelsea . 
He and Emerson are also among the prophets . 
The Almighty has not said His last say to the human race , and He can speak through a Scotchman or a New Englander as easily as through a Jew . 
The Bible , sir , is a book which comes out in instalments , and To be continued , not Finis , is written at the end of it . 
My visitor had been showing every sign of acute uneasiness during this long speech of mine . 
Finally , he sprang to his feet , and took his hat from the table . 
Your opinions are highly dangerous , sir , said he . 
It is my duty to tell you so . 
Nothing which limits the power or the goodness of the Almighty , I answered . 
You have evolved all this from your own spiritual pride and self sufficiency , said he , hotly . 
Why do you not turn to that Deity whose name you use . 
Why do you not humble yourself before Him ? How do you know I don't ? You said yourself that you never went to church . 
I carry my own church about under my own hat , said I. Bricks and mortar won't make a staircase to heaven . 
I believe with your Master that the human heart is the best temple . 
I am sorry to see that you differ from Him upon the point . 
Perhaps it was too bad of me to say that . 
I might have guarded without countering . 
Anyhow it had the effect of ending an interview which was becoming oppressive . 
My visitor was too indignant to answer , and swept out of the room without a word . 
On the other hand , truth MUST be as broad as the universe which it is to explain , and therefore far broader than anything which the mind of man can conceive . 
A protest against sectarian thought must always be an aspiration towards truth . 
There lies the real impiety . 
I know what my father would think about it , if he knew . 
And now I come to the great event of this morning , from which I am still gasping . 
That villain Cullingworth has cut the painter , and left me to drift as best I may . 
My post comes at eight o'clock in the morning , and I usually get my letters and take them into bed to read them . 
There was only one this morning , addressed in his strange , unmistakable hand . 
I made sure , of course , that it was my promised remittance , and I opened it with a pleasurable feeling of expectation . 
This is a copy of what I read When the maid was arranging your room after your departure , she cleared some pieces of torn paper from under the grate . 
That life belt of which I had spoken so confidingly had burst , and left me to kick as best I might in very deep water . 
I read the note over and over again and for all my dilemma , I could not help laughing at the mingled meanness and stupidity of the thing . 
The picture of the host and hostess busying themselves in gumming together the torn letters of their departed guest struck me as one of the funniest things I could remember . 
And there was the stupidity of it , because surely a child could have seen that my mother's attack was in answer to my defence . 
I must think it out and let you know the result . 
Come what may , one thing only is sure , and that is that , in weal or woe , I remain , ever , your affectionate and garrulous friend . 
OAKLEY VILLAS , BIRCHESPOOL , th June , . 
When I wrote my last letter , my dear Bertie , I was still gasping , like a cod on a sand bank , after my final dismissal by Cullingworth . 
The mere setting of it all down in black and white seemed to clear the matter up , and I felt much more cheery by the time I had finished my letter . 
when I was set jumping out of my carpet slippers by a ring at the bell . 
Through the glass panel I observed that it was a respectable looking bearded individual with a top hat . 
, and to have to do with a complete stranger on your own account . 
I had been thrilling to have one . 
Now that he had come I felt for an instant as if I would not open the door . 
But of course that was only a momentary weakness . 
Stark Munro ? he asked . 
Pray step in , I answered , and waved him into the consulting room . 
He was a pompous , heavy stepping , thick voiced sort of person , but to me he was an angel from on high . 
I was nervous , and at the same time so afraid that he should detect my nervousness and lose confidence in me , that I found myself drifting into an extravagant geniality . 
He seated himself at my invitation and gave a husky cough . 
Ah , said I I always prided myself on being quick at diagnosis bronchial , I perceive . 
These summer colds are a little trying . 
I've had it some time . 
With a little care and treatment I suggested . 
He did not seem sanguine , but groaned and shook his head . 
It's not about that I've come , said he . 
No ? My heart turned to lead . 
He took out a bulging notebook . 
It's about a small sum that's due on the meter . 
You'll laugh , Bertie , but it was no laughing matter to me . 
He wanted eight and sixpence on account of something that the last tenant either had or had not done . 
Otherwise the company would remove the gas meter . 
before he departed but I had rather lost interest in the subject since I had learned that he was being treated by his club doctor . 
That was the first of my morning incidents . 
My second followed hard upon the heels of it . 
Another ring came , and from my post of observation I saw that a gipsy's van , hung with baskets and wickerwork chairs , had drawn up at the door . 
Two or three people appeared to be standing outside . 
I understood that they wished me to purchase some of their wares , so I merely opened the door about three inches , said No , thank you , and closed it . 
They seemed not to have heard me for they rang again , upon which I opened the door wider and spoke more decidedly . 
Imagine my surprise when they rang again . 
Never was there such a change from the outraged householder to the professional man . 
Pray step in , madam , said I , in quite my most courtly style and in they all came the husband , the brother , the wife and the baby . 
The latter was in the early stage of measles . 
A few more such patients and I am a broken man . 
However , the two incidents together had the effect of taking up my attention and breaking the blow which I had had in the Cullingworth letter . 
It made me laugh to think that the apparent outsider should prove to be a patient , and the apparent patient an outsider . 
And now I came to my first real insight into the depths which lie in the character of Cullingworth . 
I began by trying to recall how I could have torn up my mother's letters , for it is not usual for me to destroy papers in this manner . 
I have often been chaffed about the way in which I allow them to accumulate until my pockets become unbearable . 
Well , this made me sit down and gasp . 
It does not occur to me . 
But let me once get on that line of thought let me have proof that there is reason for suspicion and then all faith slips completely away from me . 
Now I could see an explanation for much which had puzzled me at Bradfield . 
Those sudden fits of ill temper , the occasional ill concealed animosity of Cullingworth did they not mark the arrival of each of my mother's letters ? I was convinced that they did . 
I could remember , for example , how at the end of his illness his manner had suddenly changed on the very day when that final letter of my mother's had arrived . 
Yes , it was certain that he had read them from the beginning . 
But a blacker depth of treachery lay beyond . 
But I knew enough of Cullingworth's resource to feel that he could easily have got over such a difficulty as that . 
In fact , in this last letter he HAD got over it by his tale about the grate and the maid . 
He must have had some stronger reason for restraint . 
But in that case he must have been planning it out almost from the beginning of my stay with him , for my mother's letters stigmatising his conduct had begun very early . 
For some time he had been uncertain how to proceed . 
about the slight weekly decline in the practice in order to get me out of it . 
He knew too from his own experience that the landlord would require at least a year's tenancy . 
Then he waited to spring his mine until I had written to say that I had finally committed myself , on which by return of post came his letter breaking the connection . 
It was so long and so elaborate a course of deceit , that I for the first time felt something like fear as I thought of Cullingworth . 
Well , I wrote him a little note only a short one , but with , I hope , a bit of a barb to it . 
I said that his letter had been a source of gratification to me , as it removed the only cause for disagreement between my mother and myself . 
She had always thought him a blackguard , and I had always defended him but I was forced now to confess that she had been right from the beginning . 
After this bit of bravado I felt better , and I thought over the situation . 
I was alone in a strange town , without connections , without introductions , with less than a pound in my pocket , and with no possibility of freeing myself from my responsibilities . 
I had no one at all to look to for help , for all my recent letters from home had given a dreary account of the state of things there . 
My poor father's health and his income were dwindling together . 
On the other hand , I reflected that there were some points in my favour . 
I had been brought up hard , and was quite prepared to rough it . 
I was well up in my work , and believed I could get on with patients . 
My house was an excellent one for my purpose , and I had already put the essentials of furniture into it . 
The game was not played out yet . 
I jumped to my feet and clenched my hand , and swore to the chandelier that it never should be played out until I had to beckon for help from the window . 
For the next three days I had not a single ring at the bell of any sort whatever . 
A man could not be more isolated from his kind . 
It used to amuse me to sit upstairs and count how many of the passers by stopped to look at my plate . 
This used to cheer me up , and make me feel that something was going on . 
Every night between nine and ten I slip out and do my modest shopping , having already made my MENU for the coming day . 
I come back usually with a loaf of bread , a paper of fried fish , or a bundle of saveloys . 
Who do you think was the first person who broke this spell of silence ? The ruffian whom I had fought under the lamp post . 
He is a scissors grinder it seems , and rang to know if I had a job for him . 
I could not help grinning at him when I opened the door and saw who it was . 
He showed no sign of recognising me , however , which is hardly to be wondered at . 
The next comer was a real bona fide patient , albeit a very modest one . 
I don't know whether I gave her satisfaction . 
She said that she would come again on Wednesday , but her eyes shifted as she said it . 
One and sixpence was as much as she could pay , but it was very welcome . 
I can live three days on one and sixpence . 
I think that I have brought economy down to its finest point . 
My tea and sugar and milk come collectively to one penny a day . 
The loaf is at twopence three farthings , and I consume one a day . 
, or a quarter of an eightpenny tin of Chicago beef . 
Any one of these , with a due allowance of bread and water , makes a most substantial meal . 
Butter I have discarded for the present . 
So full of energy am I that I start off sometimes at ten at night and walk hard until two or three in the morning . 
I dare not go out during the day , you see , for fear that I should miss a patient . 
I have asked my mother not to send little Paul down yet until I see my way more clearly . 
Old Whitehall came in to see me the other day . 
The object of his visit was to invite me to dinner , and the object of the dinner to inaugurate my starting in practice . 
If I were the kind old fellow's son he could not take a deeper interest in me and my prospects . 
Munro , sir , said he , I've asked every man in Birchespool that's got anything the matter with him . 
You'll have the lot as patients within a week . 
There's Fraser , who's got a touch of Martell's three star . 
And there's Saunders , who talks about nothing but his spleen . 
I'm sick of his spleen ! But I asked him . 
And there's Turpey's wound ! This wet weather sets it tingling , and his own surgeon can do nothing but dab it with vaseline . 
And there's Carr , who is drinking himself to death . 
He has not much for the doctors , but what there is you may as well have . 
All next day he kept popping in to ask me questions about the dinner . 
The cooking was to be done at a neighbouring confectioner's . 
The landlady's son was coming in to wait . 
I was sorry to see that Whitehall was already slurring his words together , and had evidently been priming himself heavily . 
He looked in again in the afternoon to tell me what a good time we should have . 
So and so could talk well , and the other man could sing a song . 
to speak to him about it . 
It's not the liquor , Dr . 
Munro , sir , said he earnestly . 
It's the relaxing air of this town . 
But I'll go home and lie I'll down , and be as fresh as paint to welcome my guests . 
But the excitement of the impending event must have been too much for him . 
When I arrived at five minutes to seven , Turpey , the wounded lieutenant , met me in the hall with a face of ill omen . 
It's all up with Whitehall , said he . 
What's the matter ? Blind , speechless and paralytic . 
The table in his room was nicely laid for dinner , and several decanters with a large cold tart lay upon the sideboard . 
On the sofa was stretched our unfortunate host , his head back , his forked beard pointing to the cornice , and a half finished tumbler of whisky upon the chair beside him . 
All our shakes and shouts could not break in upon that serene drunkenness . 
What are we to do ? gasped Turpey . 
We must not let him make an exhibition of himself . 
We had better get him away before any one else arrives . 
So we bore him off , all in coils and curves like a dead python , and deposited him upon his bed . 
When we returned three other guests had arrived . 
You'll be sorry to hear that Whitehall is not very well , said Turpey . 
Munro thought it would be better that he should not come down . 
Presently the other men arrived but there was no sign of the dinner . 
We waited for a quarter of an hour , but nothing appeared . 
The landlady was summoned , but could give no information . 
Captain Whitehall ordered it from a confectioner's , sir , said she , in reply to the lieutenant's cross examination . 
He did not tell me which confectioner's . 
It might have been any one of four or five . 
He only said that it would all come right , and that I should bake an apple tart . 
Another quarter of an hour passed , and we were all ravenous . 
It was evident that Whitehall had made some mistake . 
We began to roll our eyes towards the apple pie , as the boat's crew does towards the boy in the stories of shipwreck . 
A large hairy man , with an anchor tattooed upon his hand , rose and set the pie in front of Turpey . 
What d'you say , gentlemen , shall I serve it out ? We all drew up at the table with a decision which made words superfluous . 
In five minutes the pie dish was as clean as when the cook first saw it . 
And our ill luck vanished with the pie . 
A minute later the landlady's son entered with the soup and cod's head , roast beef , game and ice pudding followed in due succession . 
It all came from some misunderstanding about time . 
But we did them justice , in spite of the curious hors d'oeuvre with which we had started and a pleasanter dinner or a more enjoyable evening I have seldom had . 
Sorry I was so bowled over , Dr . 
Munro , sir , said Whitehall next morning . 
I need hilly country and a bracing air , not a croquet lawn like this . 
Well , I'm glad to hear that you gentlemen enjoyed yourselves , and I hope you found everything to your satisfaction . 
I assured him that we did but I had not the heart to tell him about the apple pie . 
But , to turn to graver things I was right glad to get your letter , and to read all your denunciations about dogmatic science . 
Don't imagine that my withers are wrung by what you say , for I agree with almost every word of it . 
The man who claims that we can know nothing is , to my mind , as unreasonable as he who insists that everything has been divinely revealed to us . 
You have a Mameluke up jumps a Crusader . 
You have a Fenian up jumps an Orangeman . 
Every force has its recoil . 
Is not the mere existence of the picture in itself a proof that a skilful artist has been busied upon it ? one might ask . 
Why , no , says the objector . 
It is possible that the picture produced itself by the aid of certain rules . 
I am therefore of opinion that it is questionable whether any one ever painted it at all . 
The best that we can say for them is to hope that they are not as bad as they seem , and possibly lead to some higher end . 
The voices of the ill used child and of the tortured animal are the hardest of all for the philosopher to answer . 
Good bye , old chap ! It is quite delightful to think that on one point at least we are in agreement . 
OAKLEY VILLAS , BIRCHESPOOL , th January , . 
You write reproachfully , my dear Bertie , and you say that absence must have weakened our close friendship , since I have not sent you a line during this long seven months . 
The real truth of the matter is that I had not the heart to write to you until I could tell you something cheery and something cheery has been terribly long in coming . 
At present I can only claim that the cloud has perhaps thinned a little at the edges . 
I have ebbed and flowed , sometimes with a little money , sometimes without . 
At my best I was living hard , at my worst I was very close upon starvation . 
I have lived for a whole day upon the crust of a loaf , when I had ten pounds in silver in the drawer of my table . 
For two days I could not raise a stamp to send a letter . 
I have smiled when I have read in my evening paper of the privations of our fellows in Egypt . 
Their broken victuals would have been a banquet to me . 
It was not that I have had no patients . 
They have come in as well as could be expected . 
Some , like the little old maid , who was the first , never returned . 
I fancy that a doctor who opened his own door forfeited their confidence . 
Others have become warm partisans . 
However , my boy , two quarters are paid up , and I enter upon a third one with my courage unabated . 
I have lost about a stone , but not my heart . 
I have rather a vague recollection of when it was exactly that my last was written . 
I fancy that it must have been a fortnight after my start , immediately after my breach with Cullingworth . 
As I have mentioned Cullingworth , I may as well say first the little that is to be said about him . 
I answered his letter in the way which I have , I think , already described . 
, I would return the money which I had had during the time that I was with him at Bradfield . 
This put a final end to our correspondence . 
There was one other incident , however . 
One day after I had been in practice about two months , I observed a bearded commonplace looking person lounging about on the other side of the road . 
In the afternoon he was again visible from my consulting room window . 
I walked to the end of the street , waited round the corner , and met him as he came hurrying after . 
You can go back to Dr . 
Cullingworth , and tell him that I have as much to do as I care for , said I. If you spy upon me after this it will be at your own risk . 
He shuffled and coloured , but I walked on and saw him no more . 
I have heard nothing of Cullingworth since . 
It was a sore temptation , but I destroyed the letter . 
I had one or two pieces of luck in the way of accidental cases . 
was that of a grocer named Haywood , who fell down in a fit outside the floor of his shop . 
I was passing on my way to see a poor labourer with typhoid . 
You may believe that I saw my chance , bustled in , treated the man , conciliated the wife , tickled the child , and gained over the whole household . 
He had these attacks periodically , and made an arrangement with me by which I was to deal with him , and we were to balance bills against each other . 
However , it enabled me to put by for the rent many a shilling which must otherwise have gone in food . 
At last , however , the poor fellow died , and there was our final settlement . 
Stark Munro , of Oakley Villa , to have suffered no serious injury . 
As Cullingworth used to say , it is hard enough for the young doctor to push his name into any publicity , and he must take what little chances he has . 
And then there came another and a more serious accident . 
This would be about two months after the beginning , though already I find it hard to put things in their due order . 
A lawyer in the town named Dickson was riding past my windows when the horse reared up and fell upon him . 
I was eating saveloys in the back room at the time , but I heard the noise and rushed to the door in time to meet the crowd who were carrying him in . 
However , I had no thought for any one but my patient , who was groaning most dreadfully . 
I saw that his ribs were right , tested his joints , ran my hand down his limbs , and concluded that there was no break or dislocation . 
He had strained himself in such a way , however , that it was very painful to him to sit or to walk . 
I sent for an open carriage , therefore , and conveyed him to his home , I sitting with my most professional air , and he standing straight up between my hands . 
The carriage went at a walk , and the crowd trailed behind , with all the folk looking out of the windows , so that a more glorious advertisement could not be conceived . 
It looked like the advance guard of a circus . 
Munro , that I should not dream of removing him from your hands . 
On the contrary , he snatched it away from me with avidity , and I retired with some credit , an excellent advertisement , and a guinea . 
The irony of my paying a poor rate used to amuse me . 
I should have been collecting it . 
Thrice at a crisis I pawned my watch , and thrice I rallied and rescued it . 
But the long months and months during which I listened to the throb of the charwoman's heart and the rustle of the greengrocer's lungs , present little which is not dull and dreary . 
No good angels came my way . 
Wait a bit , though ! One did . 
The good fellow had come down from Merton in an excursion train , and had been travelling all night . 
We had a great day together , and when he rejoined his excursion in the evening he left a very much cheerier man than he had found . 
that I take a dark view of things . 
From annihilation to beatification I am ready to adapt myself to whatever the great Designer's secret plan my be . 
But there is much in the prospects of this world to set a man's heart singing . 
Good is rising and evil sinking like oil and water in a bottle . 
There are far fewer criminal convictions . 
There is far more education . 
People sin less and think more . 
When I meet a brutal looking fellow I often think that he and his type may soon be as extinct as the great auk . 
And then the more we progress the more we tend to progress . 
We advance not in arithmetical but in geometrical progression . 
We draw compound interest on the whole capital of knowledge and virtue which has been accumulated since the dawning of time . 
Some eighty thousand years are supposed to have existed between paleolithic and neolithic man . 
Yet in all that time he only learned to grind his flint stones instead of chipping them . 
But within our father's lives what changes have there not been ? The railway and the telegraph , chloroform and applied electricity . 
Ten years now go further than a thousand then , not so much on account of our finer intellects as because the light we have shows us the way to more . 
Primeval man stumbled along with peering eyes , and slow , uncertain footsteps . 
Now we walk briskly towards our unknown goal . 
And I wonder what that goal is to be ! I mean , of course , as far as this world is concerned . 
Ever since man first scratched hieroglyphics upon an ostracon , or scribbled with sepia upon papyrus , he must have wondered , as we wonder to day . 
I suppose that we DO know a little more than they . 
Will civilisation be swamped by barbarism ? It happened once before , because the civilised were tiny specks of light in the midst of darkness . 
But what , for example , could break down the great country in which you dwell ? No , our civilisation will endure and grow more complex . 
Man will live in the air and below the water . 
Preventive medicine will develop until old age shall become the sole cause of death . 
Education and a more socialistic scheme of society will do away with crime . 
The English speaking races will unite , with their centre in the United States . 
Gradually the European States will follow their example . 
War will become rare , but more terrible . 
That's my horoscope , and after that the solar system may be ripe for picking . 
But Bertie Swanborough and Stark Munro will be blowing about on the west wind , and dirtying the panes of careful housewives long before the half of it has come to pass . 
And then man himself will change , of course . 
The teeth are going rapidly . 
You've only to count the dentists' brass plates in Birchespool to be sure of that . 
Instinctively , when we think of the more advanced type of young man , we picture him as bald , and with double eye glasses . 
I am an absolute animal myself , and my only sign of advance is that two of my back teeth are going . 
On the other hand , there is some evidence in favour of the development of a sixth sense that of perception . 
If I had it now I should know that you are heartily weary of all my generalisations and dogmatism . 
, and is quite ready to turn his hand to anything , from boot blacking to medicine carrying . 
, an army of little soldiers . 
I have brought a patient into the consulting room , and found a torrent of cavalry , infantry , and artillery pouring across the table . 
One morning I had a great idea which has had the effect of revolutionising our domestic economy . 
Paul , my boy , said I , I see my way to fitting up this house with a whole staff of servants for nothing . 
He looked pleased , but not surprised . 
I took a piece of paper and wrote , To Let . 
A basement floor , in exchange for services . 
There , Paul , said I , run down to the Evening News office , and pay a shilling for three insertions . 
There was no need of three insertions . 
One would have been ample . 
So at last we made our selection a Miss Wotton , who asked leave to bring her sister with her . 
She was a hard faced brusque mannered person , whose appearance in a bachelor's household was not likely to cause a scandal . 
Her nose was in itself a certificate of virtue . 
She was to bring her furniture into the basement , and I was to give her and her sister one of the two upper rooms for a bedroom . 
They moved in a few days later . 
I was out at the time , and the first intimation I had was finding three little dogs in my hall when I returned . 
I had her up , and explained that this was a breach of contract , and that I had no thoughts of running a menagerie . 
She pleaded very hard for her little dogs , which it seems are a mother and two daughters of some rare breed so I at last gave in on the point . 
For a time the arrangement worked well , and then there came complications . 
One morning , coming down earlier than usual , I saw a small bearded man undoing the inside chain of my door . 
I captured him before he could get it open . 
Well , said I , what's this ? If you please , sir , said he , I'm Miss Wotton's husband . 
Dreadful doubts of my housekeeper flashed across my mind , but I thought of her nose and was reassured . 
She was a married woman . 
The lines were solemnly produced . 
Her husband was a seaman . 
She had passed as a miss , because she thought I was more likely to take a housekeeper without encumbrances . 
Her husband had come home unexpectedly from a long voyage , and had returned last night . 
And then plot within plot the other woman was not her sister , but a friend , whose name was Miss Williams . 
She thought I was more likely to take two sisters than two friends . 
So we all came to know who the other was and I , having given Jack permission to remain , assigned the other top room to Miss Williams . 
From absolute solitude I seemed to be rapidly developing into the keeper of a casual ward . 
It was a never failing source of joy to us to see the procession pass on the way to their rooms at night . 
Shortly afterwards Jack went away to sea again and after his departure there were several furious quarrels between the women down below , which filled the whole house with treble reproaches and repartees . 
At last one evening Miss Williams the quiet one came to me and announced with sobs that she must go . 
Mrs. Wotton made her life unbearable , she said . 
She was determined to be independent , and had fitted up a small shop in a poor quarter of the town . 
She was going now , at once , to take possession of it . 
I was sorry , because I liked Miss Williams , and I said a few words to that effect . 
She got as far as the hall door , and then came rustling back again into the consulting room . 
Take a drink of your own beer ! she cried , and vanished . 
It sounded like some sort of slang imprecation . 
If she had said Oh , pull up your socks ! I should have been less surprised . 
And then suddenly the words took a dreadful meaning in my mind , and I rushed to the cellar . 
The cask was tilted forward on the trestles . 
I struck it and it boomed like a drum . 
I turned the tap , and not one drop appeared . 
Let us draw a veil over the painful scene . 
Suffice it that Mrs. Wotton got her marching orders then and there and that next day Paul and I found ourselves alone in the empty house once more . 
But we were demoralised by luxury . 
We could no longer manage without a helper especially now in the winter time , when fires had to be lit the most heart breaking task that a man can undertake . 
I bethought me of the quiet Miss Williams , and hunted her up in her shop . 
She was quite willing to come , and saw how she could get out of the rent but the difficulty lay with her stock . 
This sounded formidable at first , but when I came to learn that the whole thing had cost eleven shillings , it did not appear insurmountable . 
In half an hour my watch was pawned , and the affair concluded . 
So now we have settled down , and I hope that a period of comparative peace lies before us . 
Good bye , old chap , and never think that I forget you . 
Your letters are read and re read with avidity . 
I think I have every line you ever wrote me . 
You simply knock Paley out every time . 
I am so glad that you got out of that brewery business all right . 
For a time I was really afraid that you must either lose your money or else risk more upon the shares . 
I can only thank you for your kind offer of blank cheques . 
It is wonderful that you should have slipped back into your American life so easily after your English hiatus . 
As you say , however , it is not a change but only a modification , since the root idea is the same in each . 
, although the consequences can only be slight . 
But a man may perpetrate international libel , which is a very heinous and far reaching offence , and there is no law in the world which can punish him . 
Think of the contemptible crew of journalists and satirists who for ever picture the Englishman as haughty and h dropping , or the American as vulgar and expectorating . 
If some millionaire would give them all a trip round the world we should have some rest and if the plug came out of the boat midway it would be more restful still . 
OAKLEY VILLAS , BIRCHESPOOL , rd August , . 
You know how often the turning down this street or that , the accepting or rejecting of an invitation , may deflect the whole current of our lives into some other channel . 
Look at it in this way . 
We know that many of the permanent facts of the universe are NOT chance . 
Show me a whale with its great coat of fat , and I want no further proof of design . 
But logically , as it seems to me , ALL must be design , or all must be chance . 
This seems to me to be unthinkable . 
The objector forgets that among the other things fated is that we of northern blood SHOULD strive and should NOT sit down with folded hands . 
It is part of the main line of his destiny then , and is working to an end . 
A man loses his fortune he gains earnestness . 
His eyesight goes it leads him to a spirituality . 
The girl loses her beauty she becomes more sympathetic . 
We think we are pushing our own way bravely , but there is a great Hand in ours all the time . 
You'll wonder what has taken me off on this line . 
Only that I seem to see it all in action in my own life . 
But , as usual , I have started merrily off with an appendix , so I shall go back and begin my report as nearly as possible where I ended the last . 
First of all , I may say generally that the clouds were thinning then , and that they broke shortly afterwards . 
During the last few months we have never once quite lost sight of the sun . 
had just engaged a certain Miss Williams to come and keep house for us . 
was to be paid her for her services . 
I would it had been ten times as much , for a better and a more loyal servant man never had . 
Our fortunes seemed to turn from the hour that she re entered the house . 
Slowly , week by week , and month by month , the practice began to spread and to strengthen . 
Where did it come from you will ask . 
Some from old Whitehall and his circle of Bohemians . 
Some from new comers to the town who drifted to me . 
Some from people whom I met first in other capacities . 
An insurance superintendent gave me a few cases to examine , and that was a very great help . 
Above all , I learned a fact which I would whisper in the ear of every other man who starts , as I have done , a stranger among strangers . 
Do not think that practice will come to you . 
You must go to it . 
You may sit upon your consulting room chair until it breaks under you , but without purchase or partnership you will make little or no progress . 
The way to do it is to go out , to mix everywhere with men , to let them know you . 
You will come back many a time and be told by a reproachful housekeeper that some one has been for you in your absence . 
Never mind ! Go out again . 
A noisy smoking concert where you will meet eighty men is better for you than the patient or two whom you might have seen at home . 
It took me some time to realise , but I speak now as one who knows . 
But there is a great big but in the case . 
You must ride yourself on the curb the whole time . 
Unless you are sure absolutely sure that you can do this , you are far best at home . 
You must never for one instant forget yourself . 
You must remember what your object is in being there . 
Be friendly , genial , convivial what you will but preserve the tone and bearing of a gentleman . 
If you can make yourself respected and liked you will find every club and society that you join a fresh introduction to practice . 
A slip is fatal a half slip perilous . 
Make your rule of life and go by it , in spite of challenge or coaxers . 
It will be remembered in your favour next morning . 
And of course I do not mean merely festive societies . 
Literary , debating , political , social , athletic , every one of them is a tool to your hands . 
But you must show them what a good man you are . 
You must throw yourself into each with energy and conviction . 
You will soon find yourself on the committee possibly the secretary , or even in the presidential chair . 
Do not grudge labour where the return may be remote and indirect . 
Those are the rungs up which one climbs . 
That was how , when I had gained some sort of opening , I set to work to enlarge it . 
I pushed in every direction . 
She is a marvel of discretion , and the way in which she perjures her soul for the sake of the practice is a constant weight upon my conscience . 
She is a tall , thin woman , with a grave face and an impressive manner . 
Dear me , now ! she says to some applicant . 
He's been hurried off again . 
If you'd been here half an hour ago he might have given you a minute . 
I never saw such a thing . 
Between you and me I don't think he can last at it long . 
He's bound to break down . 
But come in , and I'll do all I can for you . 
Then , having carefully fastened the patient up in the consulting room , she goes to little Paul . 
Run round to the bowling green , Master Paul , says she . 
You'll find the doctor there , I think . 
Just tell him that a patient is waiting for him . 
She seems in these interviews to inspire them with a kind of hushed feeling of awe , as if they had found their way into some holy of holies . 
My own actual appearance is quite an anti climax after the introduction by Miss Williams . 
Another of her devices is to make appointments with an extreme precision as to time , I being at the moment worked to death . 
Let us see ! says she , looking at the slate . 
He will be clear at seven minutes past eight this evening . 
Yes , he could just manage it then . 
If he knew that he is probably the only patient who has opened my door that evening he would not be in such a hurry or think so much of my advice . 
One curious patient has come my way who has been of great service to me . 
She is a stately looking widow , Turner by name , the most depressingly respectable figure , as of Mrs. Grundy's older and less frivolous sister . 
She lives in a tiny house , with one small servant to scale . 
Well , every two months or so she quite suddenly goes on a mad drink , which lasts for about a week . 
It ends as abruptly as it begins , but while it is on the neighbours know it . 
She shrieks , yells , sings , chivies the servant , and skims plates out of the window at the passers by . 
She has a fair competence , so that her little vagaries are a help to me with my rent . 
And now I have worked my way to the point where I can show you what I mean when I talk about fate . 
One day about three weeks ago he came into my consulting room after breakfast . 
Could you come with me . 
to a consultation ? he asked . 
I have my carriage outside . 
He told me something of the case as we went . 
It was a young fellow , an only son , who had been suffering from nervous symptoms for some time , and lately from considerable pain in his head . 
His people are living with a patient of mine , General Wainwright , said Porter . 
He didn't like the symptoms , and thought he would have a second opinion . 
We came to the house , a great big one , in its own grounds , and had a preliminary talk with the dark faced , white haired Indian soldier who owns it . 
He was explaining the responsibility that he felt , the patient being his nephew , when a lady entered the room . 
This is my sister , Mrs. La Force , said he , the mother of the gentleman whom you are going to see . 
I had met her before and under curious circumstances . 
When she was introduced I could see that she had not associated me with the young doctor in the train . 
I don't wonder , for I have started a beard , in the hope of making myself look a little older . 
She was naturally all anxiety about her son , and we went up with her to have a look at him . 
Poor fellow ! he seemed peakier and more sallow than when I had seen him last . 
We held our consultation , came to an agreement about the chronic nature of his complaint , and finally departed without my reminding Mrs. La Force of our previous meeting . 
Well , there the matter might have ended but about three days afterwards who should be shown into my consulting room but Mrs. La Force and her daughter . 
They both seemed to be much distressed in mind indeed , the tears were brimming over from the girl's eyes , and her lip was quivering . 
We have come to you , Doctor Munro , in the greatest distress , said Mrs. La Force we should be very glad of your advice . 
You place me in rather a difficult position , Mrs. La Force , said I. The fact is , that I look upon you as Dr . 
Porter's patients , and it is a breach of etiquette upon my part to hold any communication with you except through him . 
It was he who sent us here , said she . 
Oh , that alters the matter entirely . 
He said he could do nothing to help us , and that perhaps you could . 
Pray let me know what you wish done . 
She set out valorously to explain but the effort of putting her troubles into words seemed to bring them more home to her , and she suddenly blurred over and became inarticulate . 
Her daughter bent towards her , and kissed her with the prettiest little spasm of love and pity . 
I will tell you about it , doctor , said she . 
Poor mother is almost worn out . 
Fred my brother , that is to say , is worse . 
He has become noisy , and will not be quiet . 
In fact , it cannot go on . 
But what is mother to do ? cried the girl , taking up the tale again . 
No hotel or lodging house would take us in while poor Fred is like that . 
And we have not the heart to send him to an asylum . 
Uncle will not have us any longer , and we have nowhere to go to . 
Her grey eyes tried to look brave , but her mouth would go down at the corners . 
I rose and walked up and down the room , trying to think it all out . 
The only thing is that he must be taken at once , for really my brother has reached the end of his patience . 
I rang the bell for my housekeeper . 
Why , easily , sir , if the patients will only let me alone . 
But with that bell going thirty times an hour , it's hard to say what you are going to do . 
This with her funny manner set the ladies laughing , and the whole business seemed lighter and easier . 
I promised to have the room ready by eight o'clock . 
I was able to assure Mrs. La Force that I had had a similar case under my charge before meaning , of course , poor Jimmy , the son of Lord Saltire . 
It was a short notice , but we got everything ready by the hour . 
Carpet , bed , suite , curtains all came together , and were fixed in their places by the united efforts of Miss Williams , Paul , and myself . 
Sharp at eight a cab arrived , and Fred was conducted by me into his bedroom . 
The moment I looked at him I could see that he was much worse than when I saw him with Dr . 
The chronic brain trouble had taken a sudden acute turn . 
His eyes were wild , his cheeks flushed , his lips drawn slightly away from his teeth . 
His temperature was , and he muttered to himself continually , and paid no attention to my questions . 
It was evident to me at a glance that the responsibility which I had taken upon myself was to be no light one . 
However , we could but do our best . 
I undressed him and got him safely to bed , while Miss Williams prepared some arrowroot for his supper . 
He would eat nothing , however , but seemed more disposed to dose , so having seen him settle down we left him . 
His room was the one next to mine , and as the wall was thin , I could hear the least movement . 
Two or three times he muttered and groaned , but finally he became quiet , and I was able to drop to sleep . 
At three in the morning , I was awakened by a dreadful crash . 
Bounding out of bed I rushed into the other room . 
Poor Fred was standing in his long gown , a pathetic little figure in the grey light of the dawning day . 
, and the whole place was a morass of water with islands of broken crockery . 
I picked him up and put him back into his bed again his body glowing through his night dress , and his eyes staring wildly about him . 
It was evidently impossible to leave him , and so I spent the rest of the night nodding and shivering in the armchair . 
No , it was certainly not a sinecure that I had undertaken . 
In the morning I went round to Mrs. La Force and gave her a bulletin . 
Her brother had recovered his serenity now that the patient had left . 
He had the Victoria Cross it seems , and was one of the desperate little garrison who held Lucknow in that hell whirl of a mutiny . 
And now the sudden opening of a door sets him shaking , and a dropped tongs gives him palpitations . 
Towards evening his temperature sank to . 
, and he fell into a kind of stupor . 
As it happened , Dr . 
Porter came in about supper time , and I asked him if he would step up and have a look at my patient . 
He did so , and we found him dozing peacefully . 
You would hardly think that that small incident may have been one of the most momentous in my life . 
It was the merest chance in the world that Porter went up at all . 
Fred was taking medicine with a little chloral in it at this time . 
I did not wake until eight in the morning , when I was roused by the jingling of a spoon in a saucer , and the step of Miss Williams passing my door . 
She was taking him the arrowroot which I had ordered over night . 
I heard her open the door , and the next moment my heart sprang into my mouth as she gave a hoarse scream , and her cup and saucer crashed upon the floor . 
An instant later she had burst into my room , with her face convulsed with terror . 
My God ! she cried , he's gone ! I caught up my dressing gown and rushed into the next room . 
Poor little Fred was stretched sideways across his bed , quite dead . 
He looked as if he had been rising and had fallen backwards . 
His face was so peaceful and smiling that I could hardly have recognised the worried , fever worn features of yesterday . 
There is great promise , I think , on the faces of the dead . 
They say it is but the post mortem relaxation of the muscles , but it is one of the points on which I should like to see science wrong . 
Miss Williams and I stood for five minutes without a word , hushed by the presence of that supreme fact . 
Then we laid him straight , and drew the sheet over him . 
She knelt down and prayed and sobbed , while I sat on the bed , with the cold hand in mine . 
Then my heart turned to lead as I remembered that it lay for me to break the news to the mother . 
However , she took it most admirably . 
They were all three at breakfast when I came round , the general , Mrs. La Force , and the daughter . 
I found myself turned from the consoler into the consoled . 
There can be no doubt that the fall of temperature and the quietness which both Porter and I had looked upon as a hopeful sign , were really the beginning to the end . 
Mrs. La Force asked me to see to everything , the formalities , register , and funeral . 
It was on a Wednesday , and we thought it best that the burial should be on the Friday . 
Only then did I fully realise how much of the kindly , delicate minded gentleman remained behind that veil of profanity and obscenity which he so often held before him . 
I'll trot along with you , Dr . 
A man's none the worse for a companion at such times . 
Round he came , and very helpful he was . 
He seemed to know all about the procedure Buried two wives , Dr . 
To make a long story short , then , the funeral came off as arranged , General Wainwright , Whitehall , and I being the sole mourners . 
The captain had never seen poor Fred in the flesh , but he liked to be in at the finish , sir , and so he gave me his company . 
It was at eight in the morning , and it was ten before we found ourselves at Oakley Villa . 
A burly man with bushy whiskers was waiting for us at the door . 
Munro , sir ? he asked . 
I am a detective from the local office . 
I was ordered to inquire into the death of the young man in your house lately . 
Here was a thunderbolt ! If looking upset is a sign of guilt , I must have stood confessed as a villain . 
It was so absolutely unexpected . 
I hope , however , that I had command of myself instantly . 
Pray step in ! said I. Any information I can give you is entirely at your service . 
Have you any objection to my friend Captain Whitehall being present ? Not in the least . 
So in we both went , taking this bird of ill omen . 
He was , however , a man of tact and with a pleasant manner . 
Munro , said he , you are much too well known in the town for any one to take this matter seriously . 
He died the day before yesterday . 
He was buried at eight to day , I explained and then I told him the whole story from the beginning . 
He listened attentively and took a note or two . 
Who signed the certificate ? he asked . 
I did , said I. He raised his eyebrows slightly . 
There is really no one to check your statement then ? said he . 
Porter saw him the night before he died . 
He knew all about the case . 
The detective shut his note book with a snap . 
That is final , Dr . 
Of course I must see Dr . 
Porter as a matter of form , but if his opinion agrees with yours I can only apologise to you for this intrusion . 
And there is one more thing , Mr. Detective , sir , said Whitehall explosively . 
By sir , you'd have a real case to look after then . 
And he waved his black thorn ferociously . 
So the wretched business ended , Bertie . 
But on what trifling chances do our fortunes depend ! If Porter had not seen him that night , it is more than likely that there would have been an exhumation . 
And then , well , there would be chloral in the body some money interests DID depend upon the death of the lad a sharp lawyer might have made much of the case . 
Anyway , the first breath of suspicion would have blown my little rising practice to wind . 
OAKLEY VILLAS , BIRCHESPOOL , th November , . 
I face my study window as I write , Bertie . 
Slate coloured clouds with ragged fringes are drifting slowly overhead . 
Between them one has a glimpse of higher clouds of a lighter gray . 
I can hear the gentle swish of the rain striking a clearer note on the gravel path and a duller among the leaves . 
Then without any change in the clouds it cases off again . 
Pools line my walk , and lie thick upon the roadway , their surface pocked by the falling drops . 
As I sit I can smell the heavy perfume of the wet earth , and the laurel bushes gleam where the light strikes sideways upon them . 
The gate outside shines above as though it were new varnished , and along the lower edge of the upper bar there hangs a fringe of great clear drops . 
That is the best that November can do for us in our dripping little island . 
You , I suppose , sitting among the dying glories of an American fall , think that this must needs be depressing . 
Don't make any mistake about that , my dear boy . 
You may take the States , from Detroit to the Gulf , and you won't find a happier man than this one . 
What do you suppose I've got att his sic at this moment in my consulting room ? A bureau ? A bookcase ? No , I know you've guessed my secret already . 
She is sitting in my big armchair and she is the best , the kindest , the sweetest little woman in England . 
Yes , I've been married six months now the almanack says months , though I should have thought weeks . 
I should , of course , have sent cake and cards , but had an idea that you were not home from the Islands yet . 
Well , I daresay , with the acumen of an old married man , you have guessed who the lady is as well . 
We surely know by some nameless instinct more about our futures than we think we know . 
I suppose every medical student does . 
But now I can see that I really knew nothing . 
My knowledge was all external . 
I did not know how the love of a woman will tinge a man's whole life and every action with unselfishness . 
I had much to learn , you see but I think I have learned it . 
It was natural that the death of poor Fred La Force should make me intimate with the family . 
It was really that cold hand which I grasped that morning as I sat by his bed which drew me towards my happiness . 
I visited them frequently , and we often went little excursions together . 
Her presence enabled me to return some of the hospitality which I had received from the La Forces , and brought us still nearer together . 
I had never yet reminded them of our previous meeting . 
One evening , however , the talk turned upon clairvoyance , and Mrs. La Force was expressing the utmost disbelief in it . 
I borrowed her ring , and holding it to my forehead , I pretended to be peering into her past . 
I see you in a railway carriage , said I. You are wearing a red feather in your bonnet . 
Miss La Force is dressed in something dark . 
There is a young man there . 
Well , there are some things that we don't talk about to another man , even when we know each other as well as I know you . 
Winnie and I were thrown together for an instant . 
When will you come back to Birchespool ? I asked . 
There was but one to judge , and she was of that opinion . 
I was so lost in my own thoughts that I walked as far as Oakley Villa with my mother before I opened my mouth . 
Mam , said I at last , I have proposed to Winnie La Force , and she has accepted me . 
My boy , said she , you are a true Packenham . 
And so I knew that my mother's approval had reached the point of enthusiasm . 
It was not for days not until I expressed a preference for dust under the bookcase with quiet , against purity and ructions that the dear old lady perceived traces of the Munros . 
The time originally fixed for the wedding was six months after this but we gradually whittled it down to five and to four . 
The meaning of it , when all the whereas's and aforesaids were picked out , was , that Winnie had about a hundred a year of her own . 
Poor Whitehall came in on the morning of the ceremony . 
He was staggering under the weight of a fine Japanese cabinet which he had carried round from his lodgings . 
I had asked him to come to the church , and the old gentleman was resplendent in a white waistcoat and a silk tie . 
I had introduced him to Winnie some days before . 
You'll forgive me for saying , Dr . 
Munro , sir , that you are a lucky fellow , said he . 
You've put your hand in the bag , sir , and taken out the eel first time , as any one with half an eye can see . 
Now , I've had three dips , and landed a snake every dip . 
If I'd had a good woman at my side , Dr . 
Munro , sir , I might not be the broken half pay skipper of an armed transport to day . 
I thought you had been twice married , captain . 
The other lives at Brussels . 
Well , I'll be at the church , Dr . 
Munro , sir and you may lay that there is no one there who wishes you better than I do . 
And yet there were many there who wished me well . 
My patients had all got wind of it and they assembled by the pew full , looking distressingly healthy . 
Porter , was there also to lend me his support , and old General Wainwright gave Winnie away . 
And then amid congratulations and kindly faces , we were together , her hand on my forearm , upon the steps of the church , and saw the familiar road stretching before us . 
There really was a marked increase in my practice and for the last six months or so , without being actually busy , I have always had enough to occupy me . 
You will wonder , perhaps , how we get on my wife and I in the matter of religion . 
Well , we both go our own ways . 
Why should I proselytise ? I would not for the sake of abstract truth take away her child like faith which serves to make life easier and brighter to her . 
I have made myself ill understood by you in these discursive letters if you have read in them any bitterness against the orthodox creeds . 
Far from saying that they are all false , it would express my position better to say that they are all true . 
Providence would not have used them were they not the best available tools , and in that sense divine . 
That they are final I deny . 
But the old creeds are still the best suited to certain minds , and to certain ages . 
If they are good enough for Providence to use , they are good enough for us to endure . 
We have but to wait upon the survival of the truest . 
It is with these that the pioneers of progress can hold no truce . 
As for my wife , I would as soon think of breaking in upon her innocent prayers , as she would of carrying off the works of philosophy from my study table . 
About a year ago I had news of Cullingworth from Smeaton , who was in the same football team at college , and who had called when he was passing through Bradfield . 
His report was not a very favourable one . 
The practice had declined considerably . 
People had no doubt accustomed themselves to his eccentricities , and these had ceased to impress them . 
Again , there had been one or two coroner's inquests , which had spread the impression that he had been rash in the use of powerful drugs . 
If the coroner could have seen the hundreds of cures which Cullingworth had effected by that same rashness he would have been less confident with his censures . 
But , as you can understand , C. 's rival medical men were not disposed to cover him in any way . 
He had never had much consideration for them . 
His whole frame of mind towards me had been an example of it , but as far back as I can remember it had been a characteristic . 
Smeaton tells me that this has now taken the form of imagining that some one is conspiring to poison him with copper , against which he takes the most extravagant precautions . 
I could not help laughing at Smeaton's description , and yet it was a laugh with a groan underlying it . 
Of all ruins , that of a fine man is the saddest . 
I never thought I should have seen Cullingworth again , but fate has brought us together . 
I have always had a kindly feeling for him , though I feel that he used me atrociously . 
Often I have wondered whether , if I were placed before him , I should take him by the throat or by the hand . 
You will be interested to hear what actually occurred . 
One day , just a week or so back , I was starting on my round , when a boy arrived with a note . 
It fairly took my breath away when I saw the familiar writing , and realised that Cullingworth was in Birchespool . 
I called Winnie , and we read it together . 
Dear Munro , it said , James is in lodgings here for a few days . 
We are on the point of leaving England . 
He would be glad , for the sake of old times , to have a chat with you before he goes . 
Yours faithfully , HETTY CULLINGWORTH . 
The address , curiously enough , was that very Cadogan Terrace at which I had lodged , but two doors higher up . 
Well , I was averse from going myself , but Winnie was all for peace and forgiveness . 
Women who claim nothing invariably get everything , and so my gentle little wife always carries her point . 
Half an hour later I was in Cadogan Terrace with very mixed feelings , but the kindlier ones at the top . 
I tried to think that Cullingworth's treatment of me had been pathological the result of a diseased brain . 
If a delirious man had struck me , I should not have been angry with him . 
That must be my way of looking at it . 
If Cullingworth still bore any resentment , he concealed it most admirably . 
But then I knew by experience that that genial loud voiced John Bull manner of his COULD conceal many things . 
His wife was more open and I could read in her tightened lips and cold grey eyes , that she at least stood fast to the old quarrel . 
Cullingworth was little changed , and seemed to be as sanguine and as full of spirits as ever . 
Sound as a trout , my boy ! he cried , drumming on his chest with his hands . 
Played for the London Scottish in their opening match last week , and was on the ball from whistle to whistle . 
Not so quick on a sprint you find that yourself , Munro , eh what ? but a good hard working bullocky forward . 
Last match I shall have for many a day , for I am off to South America next week . 
Why , there wasn't room for Hetty in the place , let alone me ! I've taken to the eye , my boy . 
There's a fortune in the eye . 
A man grudges a half crown to cure his chest or his throat , but he'd spend his last dollar over his eye . 
There's money in ears , but the eye is a gold mine . 
What ! said I , in South America ? Just exactly in South America , he cried , pacing with his quick little steps up and down the dingy room . 
Look here , laddie ! There's a great continent from the equator to the icebergs , and not a man in it who could correct an astigmatism . 
What do they know of modern eye surgery and refraction ? Why , dammy , they don't know much about it in the provinces of England yet , let alone Brazil . 
Man , if you could only see it , there's a fringe of squinting millionaires sitting ten deep round the whole continent with their money in their hands waiting for an oculist . 
Eh , Munro , what ? By Crums , I'll come back and I'll buy Bradfield , and I'll give it away as a tip to a waiter . 
You propose to settle in some large city , then ? City ! What use would a city be to me ? I'm there to squeeze the continent . 
I work a town at a time . 
I send on an agent to the next to say that I am coming . 
I Here's the chance of a lifetime , says he , no need to go back to Europe . 
Here's Europe come to you . 
Here's my luggage ! he pointed to two great hampers in the corner of the room . 
Those are glasses , my boy , concave and convex , hundreds of them . 
I test an eye , fit him on the spot , and send him away shouting . 
Then I load up a steamer and come home , unless I elect to buy one of their little States and run it . 
Of course it sounded absurd as he put it but I could soon see that he had worked out his details , and that there was a very practical side to his visions . 
I work Bahia , said he . 
When Bahia is squeezed dry I move on to Pernambuco , and the agent ships to Monte Video . 
So we work our way round with a trail of spectacles behind us . 
It'll go like clock work . 
You will need to speak Spanish , said I. Tut , it does not take any Spanish to stick a knife into a man's eye . 
All I shall want to know is , Money down no credit . 
That's Spanish enough for me . 
We had a long and interesting talk about all that had happened to both of us , without , however , any allusion to our past quarrel . 
He would not admit that he had left Bradfield on account of a falling off in his practice , or for any reason except that he found the place too small . 
As to the magnet , said he , I'm very sorry for my country , but there is no more command of the seas for her . 
I'll have to let the thing go to the Germans . 
They must not blame me when the smash comes . 
I put the thing before the Admiralty , and I could have made a board school understand it in half the time . 
Such letters , Munro ! Colney Hatch on blue paper . 
When the war comes , and I show those letters , somebody will be hanged . 
Questions about this questions about that . 
At last they asked me what I proposed to fasten my magnet to . 
I answered to any solid impenetrable object , such as the head of an Admiralty official . 
Well , that broke the whole thing up . 
They wrote with their compliments , and they were returning my apparatus . 
I wrote with my compliments , and they might go to the devil . 
And so ends a great historical incident , Munro eh , what ? We parted very good friends , but with reservations , I fancy , on both sides . 
His last advice to me was to clear out of Birchespool . 
You can do better you can do better , laddie ! said he . 
Look round the whole world , and when you see a little round hole , jump in feet foremost . 
There's a lot of 'em about if a man keeps himself ready . 
So those were the last words of Cullingworth , and the last that I may ever see of him also , for he starts almost immediately upon his strange venture . 
He is a man whom nothing could hold down . 
Well , my dear Bertie , a happy and tranquil , if not very ambitious existence stretches before us . 
We are both in our twenty fifth year , and I suppose that without presumption we can reckon that thirty five more years lie in front of us . 
It's not a very startling programme , is it ? But it lies to my hand , and I see no other . 
I should dearly love that the world should be ever so little better for my presence . 
We can't all strike very big blows , and even the little ones count for something . 
So good bye , my dear boy , and remember that when you come to England our home would be the brighter for your presence . 
In any case , now that I have your address , I shall write again in a very few weeks . 
My kindest regards to Mrs. Swanborough . 
Yours ever , J. STARK MUNRO . 
This is the last letter which I was destined to receive from my poor friend . 
with his people , and on the journey was involved in the fatal railroad accident at Sittingfleet , where the express ran into a freight train which was standing in the depot . 
and Mrs. Munro were the only occupants of the car next the locomotive , and were killed instantly , as were the brakesman and one other passenger . 
It was such an end as both he and his wife would have chosen and no one who knew them would regret that neither was left to mourn the other . 
