He thus addressed him Sirrah , last year you grossly insulted me . 
Indeed , bleated the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice , I was not then born . 
Then said the Wolf , You feed in my pasture . 
No , good sir , replied the Lamb , I have not yet tasted grass . 
Again said the Wolf , You drink of my well . 
No , exclaimed the Lamb , I never yet drank water , for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink to me . 
Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up , saying , Well ! I won't remain supperless , even though you refute every one of my imputations . 
The tyrant will always find a pretext for his tyranny . 
The Bat and the Weasels A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded to be spared his life . 
The Weasel refused , saying that he was by nature the enemy of all birds . 
The Bat assured him that he was not a bird , but a mouse , and thus was set free . 
Shortly afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by another Weasel , whom he likewise entreated not to eat him . 
The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice . 
The Bat assured him that he was not a mouse , but a bat , and thus a second time escaped . 
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account . 
They replied , The dew . 
The Ass resolved that he would live only upon dew , and in a short time died of hunger . 
The Lion and the Mouse A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face . 
The Lion laughed and let him go . 
It happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters , who bound him by st ropes to the ground . 
The Charcoal Burner and the Fuller A CHARCOAL BURNER carried on his trade in his own house . 
The Fuller replied , The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned , for whatever I should whiten , you would immediately blacken again with your charcoal . 
The Father and His Sons A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling among themselves . 
When they had done so , he placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession , and ordered them to break it in pieces . 
They tried with all their strength , and were not able to do it . 
He next opened the faggot , took the sticks separately , one by one , and again put them into his sons' hands , upon which they broke them easily . 
The Boy Hunting Locusts A BOY was hunting for locusts . 
He had caught a goodly number , when he saw a Scorpion , and mistaking him for a locust , reached out his hand to take him . 
I would rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world . 
The Kingdom of the Lion THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king . 
He was neither wrathful , cruel , nor tyrannical , but just and gentle as a king could be . 
The Hare said , Oh , how I have longed to see this day , in which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side of the strong . 
And after the Hare said this , he ran for his life . 
In serving the wicked , expect no reward , and be thankful if you escape injury for your pains . 
The Fisherman Piping A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the seashore . 
At last , having long waited in vain , he laid aside his flute , and casting his net into the sea , made an excellent haul of fish . 
Hercules and the Wagoner A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane , when the wheels sank down deep into a rut . 
The rustic driver , stupefied and aghast , stood looking at the wagon , and did nothing but utter loud cries to Hercules to come and help him . 
Hercules , it is said , appeared and thus addressed him Put your shoulders to the wheels , my man . 
Self help is the best help . 
The Ants and the Grasshopper THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected in the summertime . 
A Grasshopper , perishing with famine , passed by and earnestly begged for a little food . 
The Ants inquired of him , Why did you not treasure up food during the summer ? He replied , I had not leisure enough . 
I passed the days in singing . 
They then said in derision If you were foolish enough to sing all the summer , you must dance supperless to bed in the winter . 
The Traveler and His Dog A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the door stretching himself . 
He asked him sharply Why do you stand there gaping ? Everything is ready but you , so come with me instantly . 
The Dog , wagging his tail , replied O , master ! I am quite ready it is you for whom I am waiting . 
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend . 
He immediately let go of his own , and fiercely attacked the other Dog to get his larger piece from him . 
He thus lost both that which he grasped at in the water , because it was a shadow and his own , because the stream swept it away . 
His Mother exclaimed My son , I am afraid that you are not only blind , but that you have lost your sense of smell . 
The Herdsman and the Lost Bull A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull calf from the fold . 
Not long afterwards , as he ascended a small hillock , he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf . 
The Hare , believing her assertion to be simply impossible , assented to the proposal and they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the goal . 
On the day appointed for the race the two started together . 
The Tortoise never for a moment stopped , but went on with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course . 
The Hare , lying down by the wayside , fell fast asleep . 
At last waking up , and moving as fast as he could , he saw the Tortoise had reached the goal , and was comfortably dozing after her fatigue . 
Slow but steady wins the race . 
The Pomegranate , Apple Tree , and Bramble THE POMEGRANATE and Apple Tree disputed as to which was the most beautiful . 
The Farmer and the Stork A FARMER placed nets on his newly sown plowlands and caught a number of Cranes , which came to pick up his seed . 
With them he trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life . 
Pray save me , Master , he said , and let me go free this once . 
My broken limb should excite your pity . 
Besides , I am no Crane , I am a Stork , a bird of excellent character and see how I love and slave for my father and mother . 
Look too , at my feathers they are not the least like those of a Crane . 
Birds of a feather flock together . 
The Farmer and the Snake ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold . 
He had compassion on it , and taking it up , placed it in his bosom . 
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth , and resuming its natural instincts , bit its benefactor , inflicting on him a mortal wound . 
Oh , cried the Farmer with his last breath , I am rightly served for pitying a scoundrel . 
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful . 
I have the advantages you mention , but when I hear even the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint , and fly away as fast as I can . 
No arguments will give courage to the coward . 
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear , Oh ! that you would eat the dead and not the living . 
The Swallow and the Crow THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage . 
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying , Your feathers are all very well in the spring , but mine protect me against the winter . 
Fair weather friends are not worth much . 
The Mountain in Labor A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated . 
Loud groans and noises were heard , and crowds of people came from all parts to see what was the matter . 
While they were assembled in anxious expectation of some terrible calamity , out came a Mouse . 
Don't make much ado about nothing . 
The Ass , the Fox , and the Lion THE ASS and the Fox , having entered into partnership together for their mutual protection , went out into the forest to hunt . 
They had not proceeded far when they met a Lion . 
The Fox , seeing imminent danger , approached the Lion and promised to contrive for him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to harm the Fox . 
Then , upon assuring the Ass that he would not be injured , the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it . 
The Lion , seeing that the Ass was secured , immediately clutched the Fox , and attacked the Ass at his leisure . 
The Tortoise and the Eagle A TORTOISE , lazily basking in the sun , complained to the sea birds of her hard fate , that no one would teach her to fly . 
An Eagle , hovering near , heard her lamentation and demanded what reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float her in the air . 
I will give you , she said , all the riches of the Red Sea . 
Their feet , however , became so smeared with the honey that they could not use their wings , nor release themselves , and were suffocated . 
Just as they were expiring , they exclaimed , O foolish creatures that we are , for the sake of a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves . 
Pleasure bought with pains , hurts . 
The Man and the Lion A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest . 
They soon began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in strength and prowess . 
As they were disputing , they passed a statue carved in stone , which represented a Lion strangled by a Man . 
The traveler pointed to it and said See there ! How strong we are , and how we prevail over even the king of beasts . 
The Lion replied This statue was made by one of you men . 
If we Lions knew how to erect statues , you would see the Man placed under the paw of the Lion . 
One story is good , till another is told . 
The Farmer and the Cranes SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly sown with wheat . 
The Farmer , on seeing this , charged his sling with stones , and killed a great number . 
If words suffice not , blows must follow . 
The Dog in the Manger A DOG lay in a manger , and by his growling and snapping prevented the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them . 
What a selfish Dog ! said one of them to his companions he cannot eat the hay himself , and yet refuses to allow those to eat who can . 
The Fox and the Goat A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of escape . 
A Goat , overcome with thirst , came to the same well , and seeing the Fox , inquired if the water was good . 
Concealing his sad plight under a merry guise , the Fox indulged in a lavish praise of the water , saying it was excellent beyond measure , and encouraging him to descend . 
If , said he , you will place your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head , I will run up your back and escape , and will help you out afterwards . 
The Goat readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back . 
Steadying himself with the Goat's horns , he safely reached the mouth of the well and made off as fast as he could . 
The Bear and the Two Travelers TWO MEN were traveling together , when a Bear suddenly met them on their path . 
One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and concealed himself in the branches . 
The Bear soon left him , for it is said he will not touch a dead body . 
When he was quite gone , the other Traveler descended from the tree , and jocularly inquired of his friend what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear . 
He gave me this advice , his companion replied . 
Never travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger . 
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends . 
The Oxen and the Axle Trees A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of Oxen . 
Those who suffer most cry out the least . 
The Thirsty Pigeon A PIGEON , oppressed by excessive thirst , saw a goblet of water painted on a signboard . 
Not supposing it to be only a picture , she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed against the signboard , jarring herself terribly . 
Having broken her wings by the blow , she fell to the ground , and was caught by one of the bystanders . 
Zeal should not outrun discretion . 
The Raven and the Swan A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same beautiful plumage . 
But cleansing his feathers as often as he would , he could not change their color , while through want of food he perished . 
Change of habit cannot alter Nature . 
The Goat and the Goatherd A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock . 
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain the straggler paid no attention to the summons . 
At last the Goatherd threw a stone , and breaking its horn , begged the Goat not to tell his master . 
The Goat replied , Why , you silly fellow , the horn will speak though I be silent . 
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid . 
One of his workmen observed his frequent visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements . 
He soon discovered the secret of the hidden treasure , and digging down , came to the lump of gold , and stole it . 
The Miser , on his next visit , found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to make loud lamentations . 
It will do you quite the same service for when the gold was there , you had it not , as you did not make the slightest use of it . 
The Sick Lion A LION , unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself with food by force , resolved to do so by artifice . 
He returned to his den , and lying down there , pretended to be sick , taking care that his sickness should be publicly known . 
The beasts expressed their sorrow , and came one by one to his den , where the Lion devoured them . 
I am very middling , replied the Lion , but why do you stand without ? Pray enter within to talk with me . 
No , thank you , said the Fox . 
I notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave , but I see no trace of any returning . 
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others . 
Alas ! said the Horse , if you really wish me to be in good condition , you should groom me less , and feed me more . 
The Ass and the Lapdog A MAN had an Ass , and a Maltese Lapdog , a very great beauty . 
The Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat , just as any other Ass would . 
The Lapdog knew many tricks and was a great favorite with his master , who often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to eat . 
The Ass , on the contrary , had much work to do in grinding the corn mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens from the farm . 
He next tried to jump about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do , but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms . 
He then attempted to lick his master , and jumped upon his back . 
The servants , hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of their master , quickly relieved him , and drove out the Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs . 
They rushed clamorously into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the settlement of the dispute . 
The value is in the worth , not in the number . 
One of the bystanders interrupted him , saying Now , my good man , if this be all true there is no need of witnesses . 
Suppose this to be Rhodes , and leap for us . 
The Cat and the Cock A CAT caught a Cock , and pondered how he might find a reasonable excuse for eating him . 
He accused him of being a nuisance to men by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep . 
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the benefit of men , that they might rise in time for their labors . 
The Cat replied , Although you abound in specious apologies , I shall not remain supperless and he made a meal of him . 
The Piglet , the Sheep , and the Goat A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold yard with a Goat and a Sheep . 
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him , he grunted and squeaked and resisted violently . 
The Sheep and the Goat complained of his distressing cries , saying , He often handles us , and we do not cry out . 
To this the Pig replied , Your handling and mine are very different things . 
He catches you only for your wool , or your milk , but he lays hold on me for my very life . 
The Boy and the Filberts A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts . 
He grasped as many as he could possibly hold , but when he tried to pull out his hand , he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the pitcher . 
Unwilling to lose his filberts , and yet unable to withdraw his hand , he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his disappointment . 
A bystander said to him , Be satisfied with half the quantity , and you will readily draw out your hand . 
Do not attempt too much at once . 
The Lion in Love A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage . 
The Father , unwilling to grant , and yet afraid to refuse his request , hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities . 
The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal . 
The Laborer and the Snake A SNAKE , having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage , inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son . 
Grieving over his loss , the Father resolved to kill the Snake . 
After some time the Cottager , afraid that the Snake would bite him also , endeavored to make peace , and placed some bread and salt in the hole . 
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused the injury . 
The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in order to secure food more easily . 
Encased in the skin of a sheep , he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his costume . 
In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the fold the gate was closed , and the entrance made thoroughly secure . 
But the shepherd , returning to the fold during the night to obtain meat for the next day , mistakenly caught up the Wolf instead of a sheep , and killed him instantly . 
The Ass and the Mule A MULETEER set forth on a journey , driving before him an Ass and a Mule , both well laden . 
He entreated his companion to relieve him of a small portion , that he might carry home the rest but the Mule paid no attention to the request . 
The Ass shortly afterwards fell down dead under his burden . 
The Mule , groaning beneath his heavy burden , said to himself I am treated according to my deserts . 
If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little in his need , I should not now be bearing , together with his burden , himself as well . 
The Frogs Asking for a King THE FROGS , grieved at having no established Ruler , sent ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King . 
Perceiving their simplicity , he cast down a huge log into the lake . 
The Frogs were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid themselves in the depths of the pool . 
He then gave them an Eel to govern them . 
When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature , they sent yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still another King . 
Jupiter , displeased with all their complaints , sent a Heron , who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there were none left to croak upon the lake . 
The Boys and the Frogs SOME BOYS , playing near a pond , saw a number of Frogs in the water and began to pelt them with stones . 
The Sick Stag A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture ground . 
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit . 
The Salt Merchant and His Ass A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt . 
The Peddler retraced his steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt than before . 
The Peddler saw through his trick and drove him for the third time to the coast , where he bought a cargo of sponges instead of salt . 
The Ass , again playing the fool , fell down on purpose when he reached the stream , but the sponges became swollen with water , greatly increasing his load . 
And thus his trick recoiled on him , for he now carried on his back a double burden . 
The Oxen and the Butchers THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers , who practiced a trade destructive to their race . 
They assembled on a certain day to carry out their purpose , and sharpened their horns for the contest . 
thus spoke These Butchers , it is true , slaughter us , but they do so with skillful hands , and with no unnecessary pain . 
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another . 
The Lion , the Mouse , and the Fox A LION , fatigued by the heat of a summer's day , fell fast asleep in his den . 
A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from his slumbers . 
He rose up and shook himself in great wrath , and searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse . 
A Fox seeing him said A fine Lion you are , to be frightened of a Mouse . 
'Tis not the Mouse I fear , said the Lion I resent his familiarity and ill breeding . 
Little liberties are great offenses . 
When the appointed day arrived , and the birds had assembled before Jupiter , the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many feathered finery . 
The next day it snowed very hard , so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding places , but was obliged to keep them in the fold . 
When the thaw set in , he led them all out to feed , and the Wild Goats scampered away as fast as they could to the mountains . 
The Goatherd scolded them for their ingratitude in leaving him , when during the storm he had taken more care of them than of his own herd . 
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones . 
The Mischievous Dog A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met , and to bite them without notice . 
His master suspended a bell about his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence wherever he went . 
Thinking it a mark of distinction , the Dog grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the marketplace . 
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame . 
The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail A FOX caught in a trap escaped , but in so doing lost his tail . 
One of them interrupting him said , If you had not yourself lost your tail , my friend , you would not thus counsel us . 
The Boy and the Nettles A BOY was stung by a Nettle . 
He ran home and told his Mother , saying , Although it hurts me very much , I only touched it gently . 
That was just why it stung you , said his Mother . 
The next time you touch a Nettle , grasp it boldly , and it will be soft as silk to your hand , and not in the least hurt you . 
Whatever you do , do with all your might . 
The Man and His Two Sweethearts A MIDDLE AGED MAN , whose hair had begun to turn gray , courted two women at the same time . 
One of them was young , and the other well advanced in years . 
The younger , on the contrary , not wishing to become the wife of an old man , was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she could find . 
Thus it came to pass that between them both he very soon found that he had not a hair left on his head . 
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody . 
The Astronomer AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars . 
One evening , as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole attention fixed on the sky , he fell accidentally into a deep well . 
Those evil disposed Dogs have much to answer for . 
They always bark whenever we approach you and attack us before we have done any harm . 
If you would only dismiss them from your heels , there might soon be treaties of peace and reconciliation between us . 
The Sheep , poor silly creatures , were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs , whereupon the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure . 
And when he had got all she had , he healed her and demanded the promised payment . 
The Old Woman , when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her house , would give him nothing . 
The Physician insisted on his claim , and . 
as she still refused , summoned her before the Judge . 
Now he declares that I am healed . 
The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the farmyard . 
One at last put the other to flight . 
An Eagle sailing through the air pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons . 
The vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner , and ruled henceforth with undisputed mastery . 
The Charger and the Miller A CHARGER , feeling the infirmities of age , was sent to work in a mill instead of going out to battle . 
Forbear , said the Miller to him , harping on what was of yore , for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups and downs of fortune . 
The Fox and the Monkey A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts , and so pleased them all by his performance that they elected him their King . 
As long as the war lasted , he looked upon him as his fellow helper in all emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn . 
But when the war was over , he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him carry heavy loads of wood , subjecting him to much slavish drudgery and ill treatment . 
The whole Body quickly became debilitated , and the hands , feet , mouth , and eyes , when too late , repented of their folly . 
The Vine and the Goat A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and grapes . 
A Goat , passing by , nibbled its young tendrils and its leaves . 
Jupiter and the Monkey JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be deemed the handsomest . 
The Monkey came with the rest and presented , with all a mother's tenderness , a flat nosed , hairless , ill featured young Monkey as a candidate for the promised reward . 
A general laugh saluted her on the presentation of her son . 
The Widow and Her Little Maidens A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait on her . 
She was in the habit of waking them early in the morning , at cockcrow . 
The maidens , aggravated by such excessive labor , resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so early . 
The Wolf , however , did truly come at last . 
The Wolf , having no cause of fear , at his leisure lacerated or destroyed the whole flock . 
There is no believing a liar , even when he speaks the truth . 
He knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did , saying that if they were ill , he would be happy to prescribe for them and cure them . 
They replied , We are all very well , and shall continue so , if you will only be good enough to go away , and leave us as we are . 
The Kid and the Wolf A KID standing on the roof of a house , out of harm's way , saw a Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him . 
The Wolf , looking up , said , Sirrah ! I hear thee yet it is not thou who mockest me , but the roof on which thou art standing . 
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the strong . 
The Ox and the Frog AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and crushed one of them to death . 
The Mother coming up , and missing one of her sons , inquired of his brothers what had become of him . 
He is dead , dear Mother for just now a very huge beast with four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with his cloven heel . 
The Frog , puffing herself out , inquired , if the beast was as big as that in size . 
The Shepherd and the Wolf A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up , and after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring flocks . 
The Father and His Two Daughters A MAN had two daughters , the one married to a gardener , and the other to a tile maker . 
After a time he went to the daughter who had married the gardener , and inquired how she was and how all things went with her . 
He called them to his bedside and said , My sons , there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards . 
The sons , after his death , took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug over every portion of their land . 
They found no treasure , but the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and superabundant crop . 
The Crab and Its Mother A CRAB said to her son , Why do you walk so one sided , my child ? It is far more becoming to go straight forward . 
The young Crab replied Quite true , dear Mother and if you will show me the straight way , I will promise to walk in it . 
The Mother tried in vain , and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her child . 
Example is more powerful than precept . 
The Heifer and the Ox A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow , and tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being compelled to labor . 
The Ox saw what was being done , and said with a smile to the Heifer For this you were allowed to live in idleness , because you were presently to be sacrificed . 
A Serpent gliding past the nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged nestlings . 
The Thief and His Mother A BOY stole a lesson book from one of his schoolfellows and took it home to his Mother . 
She not only abstained from beating him , but encouraged him . 
He next time stole a cloak and brought it to her , and she again commended him . 
The Youth , advanced to adulthood , proceeded to steal things of still greater value . 
At last he was caught in the very act , and having his hands bound behind him , was led away to the place of public execution . 
His Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in sorrow , whereupon the young man said , I wish to say something to my Mother in her ear . 
She came close to him , and he quickly seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off . 
He sat down by the wayside , and throwing down his load , besought Death to come . 
Death immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what reason he had called him . 
The Old Man hurriedly replied , That , lifting up the load , you may place it again upon my shoulders . 
The Fir Tree and the Bramble A FIR TREE said boastingly to the Bramble , You are useful for nothing at all while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses . 
Better poverty without care , than riches with . 
The Frog , one day intent on mischief , bound the foot of the Mouse tightly to his own . 
Thus joined together , the Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where they were accustomed to find their food . 
After this , he gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived , until reaching the very brink , he suddenly jumped in , dragging the Mouse with him . 
The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly , and swam croaking about , as if he had done a good deed . 
The unhappy Mouse was soon suffocated by the water , and his dead body floated about on the surface , tied to the foot of the Frog . 
A Hawk observed it , and , pouncing upon it with his talons , carried it aloft . 
The Frog , being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse , was also carried off a prisoner , and was eaten by the Hawk . 
Harm hatch , harm catch . 
The Man Bitten by a Dog A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone who might heal him . 
Benefits bestowed upon the evil disposed increase their means of injuring you . 
The Two Pots A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots , one made of earthenware and the other of brass . 
Equals make the best friends . 
The Wolf and the Sheep A WOLF , sorely wounded and bitten by dogs , lay sick and maimed in his lair . 
Being in want of food , he called to a Sheep who was passing , and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing close beside him . 
For , he said , if you will bring me drink , I will find means to provide myself with meat . 
Yes , said the Sheep , if I should bring you the draught , you would doubtless make me provide the meat also . 
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through . 
The Aethiop THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his former masters . 
On bringing him home he resorted to every means of cleaning , and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings . 
The servant caught a severe cold , but he never changed his color or complexion . 
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh . 
The Fisherman and His Nets A FISHERMAN , engaged in his calling , made a very successful cast and captured a great haul of fish . 
The Huntsman and the Fisherman A HUNTSMAN , returning with his dogs from the field , fell in by chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden with fish . 
The Huntsman wished to have the fish , and their owner experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game bag . 
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport . 
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some time the same exchange day after day . 
The Fox and the Crow A CROW having stolen a bit of meat , perched in a tree and held it in her beak . 
A Fox , seeing this , longed to possess the meat himself , and by a wily stratagem succeeded . 
The Fox quickly picked it up , and thus addressed the Crow My good Crow , your voice is right enough , but your wit is wanting . 
The Two Dogs A MAN had two dogs a Hound , trained to assist him in his sports , and a Housedog , taught to watch the house . 
When he returned home after a good day's sport , he always gave the Housedog a large share of his spoil . 
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents . 
The Stag , congratulating himself on his safety , began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had kindly helped him in the hour of need . 
One of them again answered him We indeed wish you well , but the danger is not over . 
Those lazy fellows have not even swept the cobwebs away . 
While he thus examined everything in turn , he spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the straw . 
Then summoning his laborers , he ordered that the Stag should be seized and killed . 
The Hawk , the Kite , and the Pigeons THE PIGEONS , terrified by the appearance of a Kite , called upon the Hawk to defend them . 
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease . 
The Widow and the Sheep A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep . 
At shearing time , wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense , she sheared him herself , but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece she sheared the flesh . 
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain . 
The Wild Ass and the Lion A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease . 
The Lion agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength , while the Wild Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed . 
When they had taken as many beasts as their necessities required , the Lion undertook to distribute the prey , and for this purpose divided it into three shares . 
will be a source of great evil to you , unless you willingly resign it to me , and set off as fast as you can . 
The Eagle and the Arrow AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock , watching the movements of a Hare whom he sought to make his prey . 
An archer , who saw the Eagle from a place of concealment , took an accurate aim and wounded him mortally . 
The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had been furnished by himself . 
It is a double grief to me , he exclaimed , that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my own wings . 
The Sick Kite A KITE , sick unto death , said to his mother O Mother ! do not mourn , but at once invoke the gods that my life may be prolonged . 
The Dolphin gladly consented to this request . 
Not long afterwards the Lion had a combat with a wild bull , and called on the Dolphin to help him . 
The Dolphin , though quite willing to give him assistance , was unable to do so , as he could not by any means reach the land . 
The Lion abused him as a traitor . 
They fiercely disputed which of them should drink first , and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal combat . 
When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a fiercer renewal of the fight , they saw some Vultures waiting in the distance to feast on the one that should fall first . 
They at once made up their quarrel , saying , It is better for us to make friends , than to become the food of Crows or Vultures . 
Some boatmen sailing by saw her , and taking a successful aim , mortally wounded her . 
He sold all his flock , invested it in a cargo of dates , and set sail . 
The Ass , the Cock , and the Lion AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw yard together when a Lion , desperate from hunger , approached the spot . 
crowed loudly , and the Lion fled away as fast as he could . 
The Ass , observing his trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to attack him , and galloped after him for that purpose . 
He had run no long distance , when the Lion , turning about , seized him and tore him to pieces . 
False confidence often leads into danger . 
The Mice and the Weasels THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other , in which much blood was shed . 
The Weasels were always the victors . 
Scarcely had the battle begun , when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice , who scampered off as fast as they could to their holes . 
The generals , not being able to get in on account of the ornaments on their heads , were all captured and eaten by the Weasels . 
The more honor the more danger . 
The Mice in Council THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy the Cat . 
But when the Mice further debated who among them should thus bell the Cat , there was no one found to do it . 
The master , he replied . 
Then said the Wolf May no friend of mine ever be in such a plight for the weight of this chain is enough to spoil the appetite . 
The Playful Ass AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building , and frisking about there , broke in the tiling . 
The owner went up after him and quickly drove him down , beating him severely with a thick wooden cudgel . 
The Ass said , Why , I saw the Monkey do this very thing yesterday , and you all laughed heartily , as if it afforded you very great amusement . 
The Three Tradesmen A GREAT CITY was besieged , and its inhabitants were called together to consider the best means of protecting it from the enemy . 
A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording the best material for an effective resistance . 
A Carpenter , with equal enthusiasm , proposed timber as a preferable method of defense . 
The storm still continuing , he was obliged to slaughter his yoke oxen for food . 
The Wolf and the Shepherds A WOLF , passing by , saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch of mutton for their dinner . 
When the battle was at its height , a Sprat lifted its head out of the waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they would accept him as an umpire . 
One of the Dolphins replied , We would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than admit any interference from you in our affairs . 
The Ass Carrying the Image AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden Image , to be placed in one of its Temples . 
As he passed along , the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image . 
The Ass , thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for himself , bristled up with pride , gave himself airs , and refused to move another step . 
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to others . 
The Two Travelers and the Axe TWO MEN were journeying together . 
One of them picked up an axe that lay upon the path , and said , I have found an axe . 
Nay , my friend , replied the other , do not say 'I , but 'We' have found an axe . 
They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the axe pursuing them , and he who had picked up the axe said , We are undone . 
Nay , replied the other , keep to your first mode of speech , my friend what you thought right then , think right now . 
Say 'I , not 'We' are undone . 
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize . 
The Old Lion A LION , worn out with years and powerless from disease , lay on the ground at the point of death . 
A Boar rushed upon him , and avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long remembered injury . 
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he were an enemy . 
When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be assailed with impunity , he let drive at his forehead with his heels . 
He seized him boldly by the ear , but could not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth , so that the boar escaped . 
His master , quickly coming up , was very much disappointed , and fiercely abused the dog . 
The Hound looked up and said , It was not my fault . 
master my spirit was as good as ever , but I could not help my infirmities . 
I rather deserve to be praised for what I have been , than to be blamed for what I am . 
The Bee and Jupiter A BEE from Mount Hymettus , the queen of the hive , ascended to Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs . 
Jupiter , delighted with the offering of honey , promised to give whatever she should ask . 
She therefore besought him , saying , Give me , I pray thee , a sting , that if any mortal shall approach to take my honey , I may kill him . 
Jupiter was much displeased , for he loved the race of man , but could not refuse the request because of his promise . 
He thus answered the Bee You shall have your request , but it will be at the peril of your own life . 
For if you use your sting , it shall remain in the wound you make , and then you will die from the loss of it . 
Evil wishes , like chickens , come home to roost . 
The Milk Woman and Her Pail A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field to the farmhouse , when she fell a musing . 
The money for which this milk will be sold , will buy at least three hundred eggs . 
The eggs , allowing for all mishaps , will produce two hundred and fifty chickens . 
In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties , where all the young fellows will propose to me , but I will toss my head and refuse them every one . 
At this moment she tossed her head in unison with her thoughts , when down fell the milk pail to the ground , and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment . 
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities . 
The Brazier and His Dog A BRAZIER had a little Dog , which was a great favorite with his master , and his constant companion . 
The day being intensely hot , and the sun shining in its strength , the Traveler stopped to rest , and sought shelter from the heat under the Shadow of the Ass . 
The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only , and not his Shadow . 
The Traveler asserted that he had , with the hire of the Ass , hired his Shadow also . 
The quarrel proceeded from words to blows , and while the men fought , the Ass galloped off . 
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance . 
Jupiter , after warning him that he would repent his request , caused him to be sold to a tile maker . 
Shortly afterwards , finding that he had heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick field , he petitioned for another change of master . 
Jupiter , telling him that it would be the last time that he could grant his request , ordained that he be sold to a tanner . 
The Oak and the Reeds A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a stream . 
It fell among some Reeds , which it thus addressed I wonder how you , who are so light and weak , are not entirely crushed by these strong winds . 
The Fisherman and the Little Fish A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets , one day caught a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor . 
Pray spare my life , and put me back into the sea . 
I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of the rich , and then you can catch me again , and make a handsome profit of me . 
The Fisherman replied , I should indeed be a very simple fellow if , for the chance of a greater uncertain profit , I were to forego my present certain gain . 
The Hunter and the Woodman A HUNTER , not very bold , was searching for the tracks of a Lion . 
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was . 
I will , said the man , at once show you the Lion himself . 
The Hunter , turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear , replied , No , thank you . 
I did not ask that it is his track only I am in search of , not the Lion himself . 
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words . 
The Wild Boar and the Fox A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the trunk . 
A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman or hound . 
He replied , I do it advisedly for it would never do to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be using them . 
The Lion in a Farmyard A LION entered a farmyard . 
The Farmer , wishing to catch him , shut the gate . 
When the Lion found that he could not escape , he flew upon the sheep and killed them , and then attacked the oxen . 
The Farmer , beginning to be alarmed for his own safety , opened the gate and released the Lion . 
The Sculptor replied , Well , if you will buy these , I'll fling you that into the bargain . 
The Swan and the Goose A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan . 
He fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its song . 
By mistake he caught the Swan instead of the Goose . 
The Swan , threatened with death , burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice , and preserved his life by his melody . 
The Swollen Fox A VERY HUNGRY FOX , seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds in the hollow of an oak , crept into the hole and made a hearty meal . 
When he finished , he was so full that he was not able to get out , and began to groan and lament his fate . 
Another Fox passing by heard his cries , and coming up , inquired the cause of his complaining . 
The Fox and the Woodcutter A FOX , running before the hounds , came across a Woodcutter felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding place . 
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut , so the Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner . 
The huntsman soon came up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen the Fox . 
He declared that he had not seen him , and yet pointed , all the time he was speaking , to the hut where the Fox lay hidden . 
The huntsman took no notice of the signs , but believing his word , hastened forward in the chase . 
The Birdcatcher , the Partridge , and the Cock A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a friend unexpectedly came in . 
The bird trap was quite empty , as he had caught nothing , and he had to kill a pied Partridge , which he had tamed for a decoy . 
You are a capital bird at telling the time of day . 
But my friend and I must have our dinners . 
The Monkey and the Fishermen A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting their nets into a river , and narrowly watched their proceedings . 
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing , and on going home to dinner left their nets upon the bank . 
The Monkey , who is the most imitative of animals , descended from the treetop and endeavored to do as they had done . 
Having handled the net , he threw it into the river , but became tangled in the meshes and drowned . 
When the pool dried up under the summer's heat , they left it and set out together for another home . 
The other replied with greater caution , But suppose the water should fail us . 
How can we get out again from so great a depth ? Do nothing without a regard to the consequences . 
The Cat and the Mice A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice . 
A Cat , discovering this , made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one . 
Fearing for their lives , the Mice kept themselves close in their holes . 
The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived that she must tempt them forth by some device . 
For this purpose she jumped upon a peg , and suspending herself from it , pretended to be dead . 
The Lion , the Bear , and the Fox A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment , and fought fiercely for its possession . 
When they had fearfully lacerated each other and were faint from the long combat , they lay down exhausted with fatigue . 
A Fox , who had gone round them at a distance several times , saw them both stretched on the ground with the Kid lying untouched in the middle . 
He ran in between them , and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could . 
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil , and another all the profit . 
The Doe and the Lion A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging to a Lion . 
The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach , but when she was safe within the cave , sprang upon her and tore her to pieces . 
The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields of the Farmer who had captured him . 
It was the time of the wheat harvest but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned home grieving sorely . 
The Seagull and the Kite A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish , burst its deep gullet bag and lay down on the shore to die . 
A Kite saw him and exclaimed You richly deserve your fate for a bird of the air has no business to seek its food from the sea . 
Every man should be content to mind his own business . 
The Philosopher , the Ants , and Mercury A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel , of which the crew and passengers were all drowned . 
He inveighed against the injustice of Providence , which would for the sake of one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent persons to perish . 
As he was indulging in these reflections , he found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants , near whose nest he was standing . 
One of them climbed up and stung him , and he immediately trampled them all to death with his foot . 
But the Mouse reached his hole in safety . 
Though the Bull dug into the walls with his horns , he tired before he could rout out the Mouse , and crouching down , went to sleep outside the hole . 
The Mouse peeped out , crept furtively up his flank , and again biting him , retreated to his hole . 
The Bull rising up , and not knowing what to do , was sadly perplexed . 
At which the Mouse said , The great do not always prevail . 
There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do mischief . 
The Lion and the Hare A LION came across a Hare , who was fast asleep . 
He was just in the act of seizing her , when a fine young Hart trotted by , and he left the Hare to follow him . 
The Hare , scared by the noise , awoke and scudded away . 
The Lion was unable after a long chase to catch the Hart , and returned to feed upon the Hare . 
The Peasant and the Eagle A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap , and much admiring the bird , set him free . 
When the Peasant rose in pursuit , the Eagle let the bundle fall again . 
At last , being very angry , he took his image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall . 
The Bull and the Goat A BULL , escaping from a Lion , hid in a cave which some shepherds had recently occupied . 
As soon as he entered , a He Goat left in the cave sharply attacked him with his horns . 
The Bull quietly addressed him Butt away as much as you will . 
I have no fear of you , but of the Lion . 
Let that monster go away and I will soon let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a Bull . 
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in distress . 
The Dancing Monkeys A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance . 
Pulling off their masks and tearing their robes , they fought with one another for the nuts . 
The dancing spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of the audience . 
The Fox and the Leopard THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of the two . 
The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots which decorated his skin . 
But the Fox , interrupting him , said , And how much more beautiful than you am I , who am decorated , not in body , but in mind . 
The Monkeys and Their Mother THE MONKEY , it is said , has two young ones at each birth . 
The Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection and care , but hates and neglects the other . 
The best intentions will not always ensure success . 
The Hare and the Hound A HOUND started a Hare from his lair , but after a long run , gave up the chase . 
A goat herd seeing him stop , mocked him , saying The little one is the best runner of the two . 
The Hound replied , You do not see the difference between us I was only running for a dinner , but he for his life . 
The Traveler and Fortune A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down , overcome with fatigue , on the very brink of a deep well . 
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate . 
The Bald Knight A BALD KNIGHT , who wore a wig , went out to hunt . 
A sudden puff of wind blew off his hat and wig , at which a loud laugh rang forth from his companions . 
Then a sudden puff of wind arose , and the Lamp was immediately extinguished . 
Its owner lit it again , and said Boast no more , but henceforth be content to give thy light in silence . 
Having secured a large booty , the Lion on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty . 
The Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice . 
The Lion , bursting out into a great rage , devoured the Ass . 
Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division . 
The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel . 
The Lion said , Who has taught you , my very excellent fellow , the art of division ? You are perfect to a fraction . 
He replied , I learned it from the Ass , by witnessing his fate . 
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others . 
The Bull , the Lioness , and the Wild Boar Hunter A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his horns . 
The Lioness came up , and bitterly lamented the death of her whelp . 
The Oak and the Woodcutters THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces , making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk . 
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear . 
The Hen and the Golden Eggs A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every day . 
They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of gold in its inside , and in order to get the gold they killed it . 
Having done so , they found to their surprise that the Hen differed in no respect from their other hens . 
The foolish pair , thus hoping to become rich all at once , deprived themselves of the gain of which they were assured day by day . 
The Ass and the Frogs AN ASS , carrying a load of wood , passed through a pond . 
As he was crossing through the water he lost his footing , stumbled and fell , and not being able to rise on account of his load , groaned heavily . 
Seeing some travelers approaching , the Crow flew up into a tree , and perching herself on one of the branches , cawed as loudly as she could . 
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them , only make themselves ridiculous . 
The Trees and the Axe A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a handle for his axe . 
The Trees consented to his request and gave him a young ash tree . 
No sooner had the man fitted a new handle to his axe from it , than he began to use it and quickly felled with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest . 
An old oak , lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions , said to a neighboring cedar , The first step has lost us all . 
If we had not given up the rights of the ash , we might yet have retained our own privileges and have stood for ages . 
The Crab and the Fox A CRAB , forsaking the seashore , chose a neighboring green meadow as its feeding ground . 
A Fox came across him , and being very hungry ate him up . 
The Woman and Her Hen A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day . 
She often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of one , and at last , to gain her purpose , determined to give the Hen a double allowance of barley . 
From that day the Hen became fat and sleek , and never once laid another egg . 
The Ass and the Old Shepherd A SHEPHERD , watching his Ass feeding in a meadow , was alarmed all of a sudden by the cries of the enemy . 
The Kites and the Swans TEE KITES of olden times , as well as the Swans , had the privilege of song . 
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of present blessings . 
We live in freedom , but you bow down to and slave for men , who in return for your services flog you with whips and put collars on your necks . 
They make you also guard their sheep , and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you . 
If you will be persuaded by us , you will give us the sheep , and we will enjoy them in common , till we all are surfeited . 
The Dogs listened favorably to these proposals , and , entering the den of the Wolves , they were set upon and torn to pieces . 
The Hares and the Foxes THE HARES waged war with the Eagles , and called upon the Foxes to help them . 
They replied , We would willingly have helped you , if we had not known who you were , and with whom you were fighting . 
Count the cost before you commit yourselves . 
The Bowman and Lion A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game , but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach . 
The Lion alone challenged him to combat . 
The Bowman immediately shot out an arrow and said to the Lion I send thee my messenger , that from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail thee . 
The Camel WHEN MAN first saw the Camel , he was so frightened at his vast size that he ran away . 
After a time , perceiving the meekness and gentleness of the beast's temper , he summoned courage enough to approach him . 
Use serves to overcome dread . 
The Wasp and the Snake A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and , striking him unceasingly with his stings , wounded him to death . 
The Hare said to him , I wish you would act sincerely by me , and show yourself in your true colors . 
The Bull and the Calf A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through a narrow passage which led to his stall . 
A young Calf came up , and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could manage to pass . 
Save yourself the trouble , said the Bull I knew that way long before you were born . 
The Stag , the Wolf , and the Sheep A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat , and said that the Wolf would be his surety . 
How then shall I be able to find you , when the day of payment comes ? Two blacks do not make one white . 
Fine feathers don't make fine birds . 
A swarm of hungry blood sucking flies settled upon him . 
A Hedgehog , passing by , saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies that were tormenting him . 
By no means , replied the Fox pray do not molest them . 
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance made colony . 
To carry out her design , she climbed to the nest of the Eagle , and said , Destruction is preparing for you , and for me too , unfortunately . 
The Wild Sow , whom you see daily digging up the earth , wishes to uproot the oak , so she may on its fall seize our families as food for her young . 
Having instilled these fears into the Sow , she went and pretended to hide herself in the hollow of the tree . 
When night came she went forth with silent foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens , but feigning to be afraid , she kept a lookout all through the day . 
And thus they both , along with their families , perished from hunger , and afforded ample provision for the Cat and her kittens . 
The Thief and the Innkeeper A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope of stealing something which should enable him to pay his reckoning . 
When he had waited some days in vain , he saw the Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before his door . 
The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him . 
As the conversation began to flag , the Thief yawned terribly and at the same time howled like a wolf . 
With this speech he commenced a second fit of yawning and again howled like a wolf , as he had at first . 
hearing his tale and believing what he said , became greatly alarmed and , rising from his seat , attempted to run away . 
At the same moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl . 
The Innkeeper , frightened lest he should be attacked , left his new coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn for safety . 
The Thief made off with the coat and did not return again to the inn . 
Every tale is not to be believed . 
The Hart and the Vine A HART , hard pressed in the chase , hid himself beneath the large leaves of a Vine . 
The huntsmen , in their haste , overshot the place of his concealment . 
Supposing all danger to have passed , the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine . 
One of the huntsmen , attracted by the rustling of the leaves , looked back , and seeing the Hart , shot an arrow from his bow and struck it . 
The Hart , at the point of death , groaned I am rightly served , for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me . 
The Serpent and the Eagle A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly conflict . 
The Serpent had the advantage , and was about to strangle the bird . 
A countryman saw them , and running up , loosed the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free . 
The Serpent , irritated at the escape of his prey , injected his poison into the drinking horn of the countryman . 
The Crow and the Pitcher A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher , and hoping to find water , flew to it with delight . 
When he reached it , he discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he could not possibly get at it . 
He tried everything he could think of to reach the water , but all his efforts were in vain . 
Necessity is the mother of invention . 
The Two Frogs TWO FROGS were neighbors . 
One inhabited a deep pond , far removed from public view the other lived in a gully containing little water , and traversed by a country road . 
The other refused , saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he had become accustomed . 
A few days afterwards a heavy wagon passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its wheels . 
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt . 
The Walnut Tree A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of fruit . 
For the sake of the nuts , the passers by broke its branches with stones and sticks . 
For in what does your strength consist ? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth an a woman in her quarrels . 
I repeat that I am altogether more powerful than you and if you doubt it , let us fight and see who will conquer . 
The Gnat , having sounded his horn , fastened himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts of the face devoid of hair . 
While trying to crush him , the Lion tore himself with his claws , until he punished himself severely . 
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion , and , buzzing about in a song of triumph , flew away . 
But shortly afterwards he became entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider . 
, came and placed himself under him , to convey him on his back in safety to the shore . 
When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of land not far from Athens , he asked the Monkey if he were an Athenian . 
The latter replied that he was , and that he was descended from one of the most noble families in that city . 
Supposing that a man was meant , the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend . 
The Dolphin , indignant at these falsehoods , dipped the Monkey under the water and drowned him . 
The Jackdaw and the Doves A JACKDAW , seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with food , painted himself white and joined them in order to share their plentiful maintenance . 
The Doves , as long as he was silent , supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to their cote . 
But when one day he forgot himself and began to chatter , they discovered his true character and drove him forth , pecking him with their beaks . 
Failing to obtain food among the Doves , he returned to the Jackdaws . 
They too , not recognizing him on account of his color . 
expelled him from living with them . 
So desiring two ends , he obtained neither . 
The Horse and the Stag AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself . 
Then a Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture . 
The Horse , desiring to revenge himself on the stranger , asked a man if he were willing to help him in punishing the Stag . 
The man replied that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to carry him , he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag . 
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him . 
From that hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag , he had enslaved himself to the service of man . 
The Kid and the Wolf A KID , returning without protection from the pasture , was pursued by a Wolf . 
The Wolf complied , and while he was piping and the Kid was dancing , some hounds hearing the sound ran up and began chasing the Wolf . 
Turning to the Kid , he said , It is just what I deserve for I , who am only a butcher , should not have turned piper to please you . 
He sighed heavily and hastened away as fast as he could run . 
As they journeyed , they passed through a cemetery full of monuments . 
All these monuments which you see , said the Monkey , are erected in honor of my ancestors , who were in their day freedmen and citizens of great renown . 
The Fox replied , You have chosen a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods , as I am sure none of your ancestors will be able to contradict you . 
A false tale often betrays itself . 
The Thief and the Housedog A THIEF came in the night to break into a house . 
He brought with him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog , so that he would not alarm his master by barking . 
As the Thief threw him the pieces of meat , the Dog said , If you think to stop my mouth , you will be greatly mistaken . 
He received them kindly , lighted a fire , and warmed them . 
He let the Horse make free with his oats , gave the Ox an abundance of hay , and fed the Dog with meat from his own table . 
Grateful for these favors , the animals determined to repay him to the best of their ability . 
For this purpose , they divided the term of his life between them , and each endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly characterized himself . 
The Horse chose his earliest years and gave them his own attributes hence every man is in his youth impetuous , headstrong , and obstinate in maintaining his own opinion . 
The Ape and all his court , gratified with the lie , commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer . 
The King of the Apes , enraged at hearing these truths , gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions . 
The Wolf and the Shepherd A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not attempt to injure one of them . 
The Shepherd at first stood on his guard against him , as against an enemy , and kept a strict watch over his movements . 
The Wolf , now that he had the opportunity , fell upon the sheep , and destroyed the greater part of the flock . 
The Lions made this reply Your words , O Hares ! are good but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have . 
The Lark and Her Young Ones A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green wheat . 
One of the young Larks heard his speech and related it to his mother , inquiring of her to what place they should move for safety . 
There is no occasion to move yet , my son , she replied the man who only sends to his friends to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest . 
The owner of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat shedding the grain from excess of ripeness . 
He said , I will come myself tomorrow with my laborers , and with as many reapers as I can hire , and will get in the harvest . 
Self help is the best help . 
On meeting him for the second time , he was still much alarmed , but not to the same extent as at first . 
On seeing him the third time , he so increased in boldness that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with him . 
The Weasel and the Mice A WEASEL , inactive from age and infirmities , was not able to catch mice as he once did . 
He therefore rolled himself in flour and lay down in a dark corner . 
A Mouse , supposing him to be food , leaped upon him , and was instantly caught and squeezed to death . 
Another perished in a similar manner , and then a third , and still others after them . 
He called out to a passing traveler for help , but instead of holding out a helping hand , the man stood by unconcernedly , and scolded the boy for his imprudence . 
Oh , sir ! cried the youth , pray help me now and scold me afterwards . 
Counsel without help is useless . 
The Ass and the Wolf AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him , and immediately pretended to be lame . 
The Wolf , coming up , inquired the cause of his lameness . 
The Ass replied that passing through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn . 
He requested that the Wolf pull it out , lest when he ate him it should injure his throat . 
The Fox and the Grapes A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging from a trellised vine . 
She resorted to all her tricks to get at them , but wearied herself in vain , for she could not reach them . 
At last she turned away , hiding her disappointment and saying The Grapes are sour , and not ripe as I thought . 
The Man and His Wife A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his household . 
Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the persons in her father's house , he made some excuse to send her home on a visit to her father . 
The Goddess , to console him , said , But you far excel in beauty and in size . 
The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage . 
These are all contented with the endowments allotted to them . 
The Dog , the Cock , and the Fox A DOG and a Cock being great friends , agreed to travel together . 
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood . 
The Cock flying up , perched himself on the branches of a tree , while the Dog found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk . 
When the morning dawned , the Cock , as usual , crowed very loudly several times . 
When the Fox approached the tree , the Dog sprang out and caught him , and tore him to pieces . 
The Wolf and the Goat A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice , where he had no chance of reaching her . 
She replied , No , my friend , it is not for the pasture that you invite me , but for yourself , who are in want of food . 
The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host , who had not given him any cause for offense . 
I have reasons enough , said the Bull . 
I see no indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep , while I do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull . 
The Goat and the Ass A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass . 
The Ass listened to his words , and falling into a ditch , was very much bruised . 
His master , sending for a leech , asked his advice . 
He bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat . 
They at once killed the Goat , and so healed the Ass . 
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse , an intimate friend , to pay him a visit and partake of his country fare . 
I am surrounded by every luxury , and if you will come with me , as I wish you would , you shall have an ample share of my dainties . 
The Country Mouse was easily persuaded , and returned to town with his friend . 
The Country Mouse , being much delighted at the sight of such good cheer , expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his own hard fate . 
At last the Country Mouse , almost famished , said to his friend Although you have prepared for me so dainty a feast , I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself . 
It is surrounded by too many dangers to please me . 
I prefer my bare plowlands and roots from the hedgerow , where I can live in safety , and without fear . 
The Wolf , the Fox , and the Ape A WOLF accused a Fox of theft , but the Fox entirely denied the charge . 
An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them . 
The dishonest , if they act honestly , get no credit . 
Away , therefore , with your insolence , for I know well when to go fast , and when to go slow . 
The Fishermen SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets . 
Perceiving them to be very heavy , they danced about for joy and supposed that they had taken a large catch . 
The Lion and the Three Bulls THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together . 
A Lion lay in ambush in the hope of making them his prey , but was afraid to attack them while they kept together . 
Having at last by guileful speeches succeeded in separating them , he attacked them without fear as they fed alone , and feasted on them one by one at his own leisure . 
The Fowler and the Viper A FOWLER , taking his bird lime and his twigs , went out to catch birds . 
While thus looking upwards , he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just before his feet . 
The Horse and the Ass A HORSE , proud of his fine trappings , met an Ass on the highway . 
The Ass , being heavily laden , moved slowly out of the way . 
Hardly , said the Horse , can I resist kicking you with my heels . 
The Ass held his peace , and made only a silent appeal to the justice of the gods . 
Not long afterwards the Horse , having become broken winded , was sent by his owner to the farm . 
He placed his paws on it and said , What a beautiful head ! Yet it is of no value , as it entirely lacks brains . 
The Geese and the Cranes THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow , when a birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets . 
The Cranes , being light of wing , fled away at his approach while the Geese , being slower of flight and heavier in their bodies , were captured . 
The Blind Man and the Whelp A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by touching them with his hands . 
The whelp of a Wolf was brought him , with a request that he would feel it , and say what it was . 
It would not be safe to admit him to the sheepfold . 
Evil tendencies are shown in early life . 
The Dogs and the Fox SOME DOGS , finding the skin of a lion , began to tear it in pieces with their teeth . 
A Fox , seeing them , said , If this lion were alive , you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than your teeth . 
It is easy to kick a man that is down . 
The Cobbler Turned Doctor A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate by poverty , began to practice medicine in a town in which he was not known . 
He sold a drug , pretending that it was an antidote to all poisons , and obtained a great name for himself by long winded puffs and advertisements . 
When the Cobbler happened to fall sick himself of a serious illness , the Governor of the town determined to test his skill . 
The Cobbler , under the fear of death , confessed that he had no knowledge of medicine , and was only made famous by the stupid clamors of the crowd . 
The Wolf and the Horse A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus addressed him I would advise you to go into that field . 
It is full of fine oats , which I have left untouched for you , as you are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating . 
The Horse replied , If oats had been the food of wolves , you would never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly . 
Men of evil reputation , when they perform a good deed , fail to get credit for it . 
The Brother and the Sister A FATHER had one son and one daughter , the former remarkable for his good looks , the latter for her extraordinary ugliness . 
While they were playing one day as children , they happened by chance to look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's chair . 
She ran off to her father . 
to be avenged on her Brother , and spitefully accused him of having , as a boy , made use of that which belonged only to girls . 
The Wasps , the Partridges , and the Farmer THE WASPS and the Partridges , overcome with thirst , came to a Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink . 
They promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked . 
The Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make them produce finer grapes . 
The Wasps said that they would keep guard and drive off thieves with their stings . 
But the Farmer interrupted them , saying I have already two oxen , who , without making any promises , do all these things . 
It is surely better for me to give the water to them than to you . 
The Crow and Mercury A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him , making a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine . 
But when rescued from his danger , he forgot his promise . 
Shortly afterwards , again caught in a snare , he passed by Apollo and made the same promise to offer frankincense to Mercury . 
The Sun suddenly shone out with all his warmth . 
Persuasion is better than Force . 
The Two Men Who Were Enemies TWO MEN , deadly enemies to each other , were sailing in the same vessel . 
Determined to keep as far apart as possible , the one seated himself in the stem , and the other in the prow of the ship . 
The Gamecocks and the Partridge A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry yard . 
One day by chance he found a tame Partridge for sale . 
He purchased it and brought it home to be reared with his Gamecocks . 
Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together and not separating before one had well beaten the other . 
He then said to himself , I shall no longer distress myself at being struck at by these Gamecocks , when I see that they cannot even refrain from quarreling with each other . 
All the beasts came to visit their king , except the Fox . 
At that very moment the Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf . 
The Dog's House IN THE WINTERTIME , a Dog curled up in as small a space as possible on account of the cold , determined to make himself a house . 
However when the summer returned again , he lay asleep stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a great size . 
Now he considered that it would be neither an easy nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would accommodate him . 
He exclaimed with a too late repentance , Wretched me ! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my destruction . 
The Birds , the Beasts , and the Bat THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts , and each were by turns the conquerors . 
A Bat , fearing the uncertain issues of the fight , always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest . 
When peace was proclaimed , his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants . 
The Spendthrift and the Swallow A YOUNG MAN , a great spendthrift , had run through all his patrimony and had but one good cloak left . 
One day he happened to see a Swallow , which had appeared before its season , skimming along a pool and twittering gaily . 
He supposed that summer had come , and went and sold his cloak . 
Not many days later , winter set in again with renewed frost and cold . 
The Fox and the Lion A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage , and standing near him , bitterly reviled him . 
The Lion said to the Fox , It is not thou who revilest me but this mischance which has befallen me . 
She said acorns would produce mistletoe , from which an irremediable poison , the bird lime , would be extracted and by which they would be captured . 
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax , which men had sown , as it was a plant which boded no good to them . 
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words , but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad . 
But afterwards , finding her words were true , they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds . 
Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things , while she no longer gives them advice , but in solitude laments their past folly . 
The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner A TRUMPETER , bravely leading on the soldiers , was captured by the enemy . 
He cried out to his captors , Pray spare me , and do not take my life without cause or without inquiry . 
I have not slain a single man of your troop . 
I have no arms , and carry nothing but this one brass trumpet . 
That is the very reason for which you should be put to death , they said for , while you do not fight yourself , your trumpet stirs all the others to battle . 
The Sparrow and the Hare A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered cries like a child . 
Woe's me ! said the flea this very patting which you like , whenever it happens to me , brings with it my inevitable destruction . 
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous vengeance on their persecutors . 
Jupiter granted their request and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in company with each other , but that the Goods should one by one enter the habitations of men . 
The Dove and the Crow A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of young ones which she had hatched . 
A Crow hearing her , said My good friend , cease from this unseasonable boasting . 
The larger the number of your family , the greater your cause of sorrow , in seeing them shut up in this prison house . 
Mercury and the Workmen A WORKMAN , felling wood by the side of a river , let his axe drop by accident into a deep pool . 
Being thus deprived of the means of his livelihood , he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard fate . 
Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears . 
After he told him his misfortune , Mercury plunged into the stream , and , bringing up a golden axe , inquired if that were the one he had lost . 
When the Workman said it was not , he dived into the pool for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost . 
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery . 
Mercury , pleased with his honesty , gave him the golden and silver axes in addition to his own . 
The Workman , on his return to his house , related to his companions all that had happened . 
One of them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for himself . 
He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into the pool at the same place , and sat down on the bank to weep . 
The Workman seized it greedily , and declared that truly it was the very same axe that he had lost . 
Mercury , displeased at his knavery , not only took away the golden axe , but refused to recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool . 
The Eagle and the Jackdaw AN EAGLE , flying down from his perch on a lofty rock , seized upon a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons . 
A Jackdaw , who witnessed the capture of the lamb , was stirred with envy and determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle . 
The shepherd , seeing what had happened , ran up and caught him . 
He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings , and taking him home at night , gave him to his children . 
On their saying , Father , what kind of bird is it ? he replied , To my certain knowledge he is a Daw but he would like you to think an Eagle . 
The soup fell out of the long bill of the Crane at every mouthful , and his vexation at not being able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement . 
The Fox , unable even to taste it , met with a fitting requital , after the fashion of her own hospitality . 
On the completion of their labors , a dispute arose as to which had made the most perfect work . 
They agreed to appoint Momus as judge , and to abide by his decision . 
Momus , however , being very envious of the handicraft of each , found fault with all . 
He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made the horns of the bull below his eyes , so he might better see where to strike . 
Jupiter , indignant at such inveterate faultfinding , drove him from his office of judge , and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus . 
The Eagle and the Fox AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to live near each other . 
The Eagle built her nest in the branches of a tall tree , while the Fox crept into the underwood and there produced her young . 
The Fox on her return , discovered what had happened , but was less grieved for the death of her young than for her inability to avenge them . 
A just retribution , however , quickly fell upon the Eagle . 
There , in the sight of the Eagle , the Fox gobbled them up . 
The Man and the Satyr A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of alliance being formed between them . 
One very cold wintry day , as they talked , the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on them . 
When the Satyr asked the reason for this , he told him that he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold . 
Later on in the day they sat down to eat , and the food prepared was quite scalding . 
The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his mouth and blew in it . 
When the Satyr again inquired the reason , he said that he did it to cool the meat , which was too hot . 
I can no longer consider you as a friend , said the Satyr , a fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold . 
The Ass and His Purchaser A MAN wished to purchase an Ass , and agreed with its owner that he should try out the animal before he bought him . 
Seeing this , the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner . 
A man is known by the company he keeps . 
Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of others , and yet are often blind to their own failings . 
The Stag at the Pool A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink . 
Seeing his own shadow reflected in the water , he greatly admired the size and variety of his horns , but felt angry with himself for having such slender and weak feet . 
While he was thus contemplating himself , a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon him . 
The Stag immediately took to flight , and exerting his utmost speed , as long as the plain was smooth and open kept himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion . 
But entering a wood he became entangled by his horns , and the Lion quickly came up to him and caught him . 
What is most truly valuable is often underrated . 
was created before the earth itself , and when her father died , as there was no earth , she could find no place of burial for him . 
She let him lie uninterred for five days , and on the sixth day , not knowing what else to do , she buried him in her own head . 
Hence she obtained her crest , which is popularly said to be her father's grave hillock . 
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents . 
The Gnat and the Bull A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull , and sat there a long time . 
Just as he was about to fly off , he made a buzzing noise , and inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go . 
The Bull replied , I did not know you had come , and I shall not miss you when you go away . 
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes of their neighbors . 
The Bitch and Her Whelps A BITCH , ready to whelp , earnestly begged a shepherd for a place where she might litter . 
When her request was granted , she besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot . 
The Dogs and the Hides SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping in a river . 
Not being able to reach them , they agreed to drink up the river , but it happened that they burst themselves with drinking long before they reached the hides . 
The Sheep eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak . 
The Grasshopper refused to desist , and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated . 
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words were despised , the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem . 
If you do not dislike it , come to me and we will drink it together . 
The Grasshopper , who was thirsty , and pleased with the praise of her voice , eagerly flew up . 
The Owl came forth from her hollow , seized her , and put her to death . 
The Monkey and the Camel THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which the Monkey stood up and danced . 
Having vastly delighted the assembly , he sat down amidst universal applause . 
He moved about in so utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts , in a fit of indignation , set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the assembly . 
It is absurd to ape our betters . 
The Peasant and the Apple Tree A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple Tree which bore no fruit but only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers . 
He resolved to cut it down , and taking his axe in his hand , made a bold stroke at its roots . 
The grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them , but to spare it , and they would sing to him and lighten his labors . 
He paid no attention to their request , but gave the tree a second and a third blow with his axe . 
When he reached the hollow of the tree , he found a hive full of honey . 
Having tasted the honeycomb , he threw down his axe , and looking on the tree as sacred , took great care of it . 
Self interest alone moves some men . 
The Two Soldiers and the Robber TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber . 
The one fled away the other stood his ground and defended himself with his stout right hand . 
I , indeed , who have experienced with what speed you run away , know right well that no dependence can be placed on your valor . 
The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods THE GODS , according to an ancient legend , made choice of certain trees to be under their special protection . 
Jupiter chose the oak , Venus the myrtle , Apollo the laurel , Cybele the pine , and Hercules the poplar . 
Minerva , wondering why they had preferred trees not yielding fruit , inquired the reason for their choice . 
Jupiter replied , It is lest we should seem to covet the honor for the fruit . 
But said Minerva , Let anyone say what he will the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit . 
Then said Jupiter , My daughter , you are rightly called wise for unless what we do is useful , the glory of it is vain . 
The Mother and the Wolf A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of food . 
The Wolf sat all day waiting at the door . 
In the evening he heard the same woman fondling her child and saying You are quiet now , and if the Wolf should come , we will kill him . 
The Wolf , hearing these words , went home , gasping with cold and hunger . 
When he reached his den , Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied and supperless , so contrary to his wont . 
The Ass replied , Thank you . 
But I can't think that you , who refuse me a little matter now . 
will by and by confer on me a greater benefit . 
Truth and the Traveler A WAYFARING MAN , traveling in the desert , met a woman standing alone and terribly dejected . 
He inquired of her , Who art thou ? My name is Truth , she replied . 
The Manslayer A MAN committed a murder , and was pursued by the relations of the man whom he murdered . 
On his reaching the river Nile he saw a Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid , climbed up a tree . 
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree , and again being greatly alarmed , he threw himself into the river , where a crocodile caught him and ate him . 
Thus the earth , the air , and the water alike refused shelter to a murderer . 
The Lion and the Fox A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of becoming his servant . 
Each undertook his proper duty in accordance with his own nature and powers . 
The Fox discovered and pointed out the prey the Lion sprang on it and seized it . 
The next day he attempted to snatch a lamb from the fold , but he himself fell prey to the huntsmen and hounds . 
The Lion and the Eagle AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an alliance with him to their mutual advantage . 
The Hen and the Swallow A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them warm , nourished them into life . 
Various public performers contended for the prize . 
Among them came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes , and said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been brought out on any stage before . 
This report being spread about made a great stir , and the theater was crowded in every part . 
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform , without any apparatus or confederates , and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence . 
When that was done and nothing was found , they cheered the actor , and loaded him with the loudest applause . 
Both of the performers appeared on the stage . 
The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first , and obtained , as on the preceding day , the applause and cheers of the spectators . 
contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak . 
The Crowd , however , cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation , and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater . 
On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake . 
Look here , he said , this shows what sort of judges you are . 
The Crow and the Serpent A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny nook , and flying down , greedily seized him . 
The Serpent , turning about , bit the Crow with a mortal wound . 
In the agony of death , the bird exclaimed O unhappy me ! who have found in that which I deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction . 
The Hunter and the Horseman A CERTAIN HUNTER , having snared a hare , placed it upon his shoulders and set out homewards . 
On his way he met a man on horseback who begged the hare of him , under the pretense of purchasing it . 
However , when the Horseman got the hare , he rode off as fast as he could . 
The Hunter ran after him , as if he was sure of overtaking him , but the Horseman increased more and more the distance between them . 
The Hunter , sorely against his will , called out to him and said , Get along with you ! for I will now make you a present of the hare . 
But one of the tree's prickles pierced his finger and caused great pain and inflammation , so that the young Prince fell down in a fainting fit . 
A violent fever suddenly set in , from which he died not many days later . 
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them . 
The Cat and Venus A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man , and entreated Venus to change her into the form of a woman . 
Venus consented to her request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel , so that the youth saw her and loved her , and took her home as his bride . 
The Cat , quite forgetting her present condition , started up from the couch and pursued the mouse , wishing to eat it . 
Venus was much disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape . 
Allow them , said Jupiter , to enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex , so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage . 
It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should be like us in outside appearances . 
The Camel and the Arab AN ARAB CAMEL DRIVER , after completing the loading of his Camel , asked him which he would like best , to go up hill or down . 
They had not gone far when they met with a troop of women collected round a well , talking and laughing . 
Presently they came up to a group of old men in earnest debate . 
There , said one of them , it proves what I was a saying . 
Upon this the old man made his son dismount , and got up himself . 
They had now almost reached the town . 
Pray , honest friend , said a citizen , is that Ass your own ? Yes , replied the old man . 
O , one would not have thought so , said the other , by the way you load him . 
Why , you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than he you . 
Anything to please you , said the old man we can but try . 
The Crow and the Sheep A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep . 
To this the Crow replied , I despise the weak and yield to the strong . 
I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter and I thus prolong my life to a good old age . 
The Fox and the Bramble A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught hold of a Bramble to save himself . 
The Bramble , interrupting him , said , But you really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on me , who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others . 
The Wolf and the Lion A WOLF , having stolen a lamb from a fold , was carrying him off to his lair . 
A Lion met him in the path , and seizing the lamb , took it from him . 
Soon afterwards suffering great pain in his stomach , he said , I deserve all this torment , for my folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg . 
They who act without sufficient thought , will often fall into unsuspected danger . 
A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her . 
The Ant climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank . 
Shortly afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree , and laid his lime twigs for the Dove , which sat in the branches . 
The Ant , perceiving his design , stung him in the foot . 
In pain the birdcatcher threw down the twigs , and the noise made the Dove take wing . 
The Partridge and the Fowler A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it . 
The Fowler replied , I shall now with less scruple take your life , because you are willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and relations . 
The Man , laughing , replied , Now you shall certainly die by mine own hands , for no evil , whether it be small or large , ought to be tolerated . 
The Thieves and the Cock SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock , whom they stole , and got off as fast as they could . 
Upon arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock , who thus pleaded for his life Pray spare me I am very serviceable to men . 
I wake them up in the night to their work . 
That is the very reason why we must the more kill you , they replied for when you wake your neighbors , you entirely put an end to our business . 
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil intentions . 
The Dog and the Cook A RICH MAN gave a great feast , to which he invited many friends and acquaintances . 
I will take care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow . 
He fell with force upon the ground and limped away , howling dreadfully . 
His yelling soon attracted other street dogs , who came up to him and inquired how he had enjoyed his supper . 
He replied , Why , to tell you the truth , I drank so much wine that I remember nothing . 
I do not know how I got out of the house . 
The Travelers and the Plane Tree TWO TRAVELERS , worn out by the heat of the summer's sun , laid themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of a Plane Tree . 
The Lion , Jupiter , and the Elephant THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints . 
It is true , O Jupiter ! he said , that I am gigantic in strength , handsome in shape , and powerful in attack . 
On hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and , reproaching himself with his cowardice , wished that he might die . 
As these thoughts passed through his mind , he met an Elephant and came close to hold a conversation with him . 
The Lion said , Well , since so huge a beast is afraid of a tiny gnat , I will no more complain , nor wish myself dead . 
I find myself , even as I am , better off than the Elephant . 
The Lamb and the Wolf A WOLF pursued a Lamb , which fled for refuge to a certain Temple . 
The Wolf called out to him and said , The Priest will slay you in sacrifice , if he should catch you . 
On which the Lamb replied , It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to be eaten by you . 
The Tanner put off his departure from time to time , saying that he would leave soon . 
But as he still continued to stay , as time went on , the rich man became accustomed to the smell , and feeling no manner of inconvenience , made no further complaints . 
The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea A SHIPWRECKED MAN , having been cast upon a certain shore , slept after his buffetings with the deep . 
After a while he awoke , and looking upon the Sea , loaded it with reproaches . 
He argued that it enticed men with the calmness of its looks , but when it had induced them to plow its waters , it grew rough and destroyed them . 
The Mules and the Robbers TWO MULES well laden with packs were trudging along . 
One carried panniers filled with money , the other sacks weighted with grain . 
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect , as if conscious of the value of his burden , and tossed up and down the clear toned bells fastened to his neck . 
His companion followed with quiet and easy step . 
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his misfortunes . 
The other replied , I am indeed glad that I was thought so little of , for I have lost nothing , nor am I hurt with any wound . 
The Viper and the File A LION , entering the workshop of a smith , sought from the tools the means of satisfying his hunger . 
He more particularly addressed himself to a File , and asked of him the favor of a meal . 
The Lion and the Shepherd A LION , roaming through a forest , trod upon a thorn . 
Soon afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him , wagging his tail as if to say , I am a suppliant , and seek your aid . 
Some time after , the Shepherd , being imprisoned on a false accusation , was condemned to be cast to the Lions as the punishment for his imputed crime . 
The Camel and Jupiter THE CAMEL , when he saw the Bull adorned with horns , envied him and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors . 
He went to Jupiter , and besought him to give him horns . 
The Panther and the Shepherds A PANTHER , by some mischance , fell into a pit . 
At night they returned home , not dreaming of any danger , but supposing that on the morrow they would find him dead . 
The Panther , however , when he had recruited his feeble strength , freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit , and hastened to his den with rapid steps . 
After a few days he came forth and slaughtered the cattle , and , killing the Shepherds who had attacked him , raged with angry fury . 
Then they who had spared his life , fearing for their safety , surrendered to him their flocks and begged only for their lives . 
To them the Panther made this reply I remember alike those who sought my life with stones , and those who gave me food aside , therefore , your fears . 
I return as an enemy only to those who injured me . 
But when war broke out , a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse , and riding him to the charge , rushed into the very midst of the enemy . 
The Horse was wounded and fell dead on the battlefield . 
Then the Ass , seeing all these things , changed his mind , and commiserated the Horse . 
Later , another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow again . 
The Eagle took flight , and pouncing upon a hare , brought it at once as an offering to his benefactor . 
The Bald Man and the Fly A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who , endeavoring to destroy it , gave himself a heavy slap . 
But you , an ill favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking human blood , I wish that I could have killed you even if I had incurred a heavier penalty . 
But finding the Fig Tree denuded of leaves , the snow fell through to the ground , and did not injure it at all . 
The Eagle and the Kite AN EAGLE , overwhelmed with sorrow , sat upon the branches of a tree in company with a Kite . 
Take me , returned the Kite , I am much stronger than you are . 
Why , are you able to secure the means of living by your plunder ? Well , I have often caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons . 
The Eagle , persuaded by these words , accepted him as her mate . 
Shortly after the nuptials , the Eagle said , Fly off and bring me back the ostrich you promised me . 
The Kite , soaring aloft into the air , brought back the shabbiest possible mouse , stinking from the length of time it had lain about the fields . 
The Ass and His Driver AN ASS , being driven along a high road , suddenly started off and bolted to the brink of a deep precipice . 
While he was in the act of throwing himself over , his owner seized him by the tail , endeavoring to pull him back . 
When the Ass persisted in his effort , the man let him go and said , Conquer , but conquer to your cost . 
The Thrush and the Fowler A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle tree and did not move from it because its berries were so delicious . 
A Fowler observed her staying so long in one spot , and having well bird limed his reeds , caught her . 
I envy you your beauty and your perfume . 
But thou art immortal and dost never fade , but bloomest for ever in renewed youth . 
The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun ONCE UPON A TIME , when the Sun announced his intention to take a wife , the Frogs lifted up their voices in clamor to the sky . 
Jupiter , disturbed by the noise of their croaking , inquired the cause of their complaint . 
One of them said , The Sun , now while he is single , parches up the marsh , and compels us to die miserably in our arid homes . 
He is , by an almost universal consent , allowed to have been born about the year B. C. , and to have been by birth a slave . 
On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis , and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State . 
In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece . 
One of these ambassadorial missions , undertaken at the command of Croesus , was the occasion of his death . 
The Delphians , enraged at this treatment , accused him of impiety , and , in spite of his sacred character as ambassador , executed him as a public criminal . 
This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged . 
Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens , the work of Lysippus , one of the most famous of Greek sculptors . 
Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici , Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam . 
These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty , in reference to the birth , life , and death of Aesop . 
He published his Life of Aesop , Anno Domini . 
The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac . 
The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry . 
His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables , and was republished as late as by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop . 
l It is given up in the present day , by general consent , as unworthy of the slightest credit . 
Preface PREFACE THE TALE , the Parable , and the Fable are all common and popular modes of conveying instruction . 
Each is distinguished by its own special characteristics . 
The Tale consists simply in the narration of a story either founded on facts , or created solely by the imagination , and not necessarily associated with the teaching of any moral lesson . 
The Fable partly agrees with , and partly differs from both of these . 
The true fabulist , therefore , discharges a most important function . 
He is neither a narrator , nor an allegorist . 
He is a great teacher , a corrector of morals , a censor of vice , and a commender of virtue . 
In this consists the superiority of the Fable over the Tale or the Parable . 
The fabulist is to create a laugh , but yet , under a merry guise , to convey instruction . 
Phaedrus , the great imitator of Aesop , plainly indicates this double purpose to be the true office of the writer of fables . 
Duplex libelli dos est quod risum movet , Et quod prudenti vitam consilio monet . 
The continual observance of this twofold aim creates the charm , and accounts for the universal favor , of the fables of Aesop . 
The fable , says Professor K. O. Mueller , originated in Greece in an intentional travestie of human affairs . 
a careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of the fictitious personages introduced into it . 
The narration should relate to one simple action , consistent with itself , and neither be overladen with a multiplicity of details , nor distracted by a variety of circumstances . 
The introduction of the animals or fictitious characters should be marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to their natural attributes , and to the qualities attributed to them by universal popular consent . 
The Fox should be always cunning , the Hare timid , the Lion bold , the Wolf cruel , the Bull strong , the Horse proud , and the Ass patient . 
Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these rules . 
They are occupied with one short narrative , from which the moral naturally flows , and with which it is intimately associated . 
'Tis the simple manner , says Dodsley , in which the morals of Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him , and gives him the preference over all other mythologists . 
There is no need of a separate sentence to explain it no possibility of impressing it deeper , by that load we too often see of accumulated reflections . 
An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals , fictitiously introduced , are marked . 
These terms of praise , it must be confessed , cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection . 
This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables . 
The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop . 
Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived . 
The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop , and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition . 
Demetrius Phalereus , a philosopher at Athens about B. C. , is said to have made the first collection of these fables . 
Aphthonius , a rhetorician of Antioch , A. D. , wrote a treatise on , and converted into Latin prose , some of these fables . 
This translation is the more worthy of notice , as it illustrates a custom of common use , both in these and in later times . 
, and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus . 
Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop . 
Maximus Planudes , a learned monk of Constantinople , made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables . 
Little is known of his history . 
Planudes , however , was no mere recluse , shut up in his monastery . 
He took an active part in public affairs . 
In A. D. he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder . 
Planudes has been exposed to a two fold accusation . 
The truth lies between these two extremes . 
These fables , indeed , were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention . 
They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors , in the minds of the great students of that day . 
These fables , again , were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press . 
in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris . 
In the year , a learned Swiss , Isaac Nicholas Nevelet , sent forth the third printed edition of these fables , in a work entitled Mythologia Aesopica . 
This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist , and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published . 
It consisted , in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions , of one hundred and thirty six new fables from MSS . 
in the Library of the Vatican , of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius , and of forty three from Babrias . 
It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus , Avienus , and other authors . 
This volume of Nevelet forms a complete Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind . 
This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables . 
It is remarkable , also , as containing in its preface the germ of an idea , which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances . 
Nevelet intimates an opinion , that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables . 
The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting , that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature . 
He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor , of one of the Ionic Colonies , but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled . 
At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop , by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared , and to have been lost sight of . 
James as an Epimith to one of the fables , and suggests Babrias as their author . 
These various references to Babrias induced Dr . 
Such a seemingly extravagant theory , thus roundly asserted , excited much opposition . 
Bentley l met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford , the Hon . 
Mr. Charles Boyle , afterwards Earl of Orrery . 
Their letters and disputations on this subject , enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning , will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century . 
Mr. Tyrwhitt published , A. D. , a Dissertation on Babrias , and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS . 
in the Bodleian Library at Oxford . 
Francesco de Furia , a learned Italian , contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS . 
contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published . 
In the year , however , new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject . 
A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS . 
of Quinctilian's Institutes , and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St . 
M. Menoides , at the suggestion of M. Villemain , Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe , had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS . 
, and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS . 
at the convent of St . 
Laura , on Mount Athos , which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished for choliambic version of Babrias . 
was found to be divided into two books , the one containing a hundred and twenty five , and the other ninety five fables . 
The Fables thus recovered were soon published . 
Thus , after an eclipse of many centuries , Babrias shines out as the earliest , and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables . 
The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae . 
E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit . 
Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti . 
Fabulae Aesopiacae , quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia . 
? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? . 
Lipsiae , Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae . 
GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND FOOTNOTES A History of the Literature of Ancient Greece , by K. O. Mueller . 
Select Fables of Aesop , and other Fabulists . 
In three books , translated by Robert Dodsley , accompanied with a selection of notes , and an Essay on Fable . 
Some of these fables had , no doubt , in the first instance , a primary and private interpretation . 
On the first occasion of their being composed they were intended to refer to some passing event , or to some individual acts of wrong doing . 
Thus , the fables of the Eagle and the Fox and of the Fox and Monkey' are supposed to have been written by Archilochus , to avenge the injuries done him by Lycambes . 
Opera et Dies , verse . 
Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing before his day . 
See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes , line . 
See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece , vol . 
M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop . 
And again , C'est donc a Hesiode , que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite . 
Esope la perfectionne si heureusement , qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production . 
Apologos en ! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex . 
Both these publications are in the British Museum , and are placed in the library in cases under glass , for the inspection of the curious . 
ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars . 
There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description . 
The one is the Speculum Sapientiae , attributed to St . 
Cyril , Archbishop of Jerusalem , but of a considerably later origin , and existing only in Latin . 
The exact title of the book is this Speculum Sapientiae , B. Cyrilli Episcopi alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus , in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit . 
The other is a larger work in two volumes , published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach , a Cistercian monk , under the title of Dialogus Miraculorum , reprinted in . 
This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects . 
It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable . 
Post medieval Preachers , by S. Baring Gould . 
For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini , by the Rev . 
See Classical Museum , No. viii . 
gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors , Nevelet and Vavassor . 
differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot the fifth foot , to avoid shortness of meter , being generally an iambic . 
See Fables of Babrias , translated by Rev . 
Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris . 
Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris , and Fables of Aesop examined . 
By the Honorable Charles Boyle . 
